Son, do you want to know what the truth is?
After this, there's no turning back.
You take the blue pill and you wake up in your bed and believe whatever you want to.
You take the red pill and you stay in Wonderland.
And I show you just how deep the rabbit hole goes.
Remember, all I'm offering is the truth.
Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh,
ooh, ooh, ooh Ooh ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh.
heart out a little today and tell you what I wrestle with as a content creator who's
on a journey for trying to understand what the truth may be about these ancient religions,
about the Bible, about the literature that we're reading, and really what goes on inside me. Because
oftentimes people see polemics, see anti-apologetical materials and stuff that we do as well, but I
wanted to tell you a little bit about me, Derek, a little bit. And I expressed this to my queen,
my wife, the other day, after doing another reaction response to apologetics and how you get
almost a perception of people online when you hear them polemically going back and forth that I think
is an illusion. It does not accurately define the people that are actually communicating these ideas.
And so, figure if you have the time, hang out with me, but also I want to address some other,
I would say, secondary issues that I find constantly online, as you see in the thumbnail,
with clickbait titles, and you don't have real scholars, or who is a real scholar, and this
guy's a real scholar, she's a real scholar, that guy's not a real scholar. And I find that there's
like this tribalistic notion of, well, they don't fit my category, or I don't agree with their assessment,
and therefore they're not real scholars. And so my definition is a lot broader in the sense that
I don't have this, I don't go that defined, I'd say, even within the secular community,
you find people who are like, that's not a good scholar, we don't agree with that scholar,
that scholar's not on board with us, and therefore the rest aren't. To give you an example,
you'll find a lot of academics look for Jewish antecedents for almost everything in the New
Testament, almost. I would say most of the New Testament, they try to only look within a Jewish
bubble insulated from the broader Greco-Roman world on how they would assess New Testament material.
I think that's wrong. Now, I'm not an academic, so my word doesn't mean that nobody
that's within academia, but I don't care. I'm glad I'm not trapped in that political,
I must follow this path kind of view. And there are other scholars in different fields who struggle
with the same problem, I wish I had the video pulled up right now to explain, or let her,
we had a, I think she's a theoretical physicist or physicist of some sort,
who describes her experience in academia and how it's politically driven and motivated to
gear towards certain assessment. You got to kind of draw a certain bubble. You want it to be edgy,
but you don't want it to be too edgy that puts you on the outskirts. And the next thing you know,
you end up Dennis McDonald. And it's so sad. Dennis McDonald gets this negative perception,
you'll see some of the interviews that are going to come out with him and Richard C. Miller,
that I honestly am irritated by. Whatever you make of his work, you don't have to draw the
conclusions. He doesn't get a seat at the table. And they don't treat him the way that they should,
in my opinion. But as soon as you put that, you know, Jewish angle on it when it comes to the
New Testament material, and you give that kind of perspective, you kind of get a pass into the,
into the SBL conference and a thumbs up. And I just do not agree. I do see a problem in the field.
And we'll cover that. So let's start with my struggles first. Before we get into the secondary
material, which is dealing with scholarship, which is dealing with what midfissions doing,
polemics, clickbait titles, the list goes on and on. I think there's a bit of bullying
that goes on in social senses online. And I'm not falling for the crap. So I love everybody.
I'm friends with so many scholars who aren't friends with so many scholars who don't like
other scholars who don't agree with other scholars. And I don't care. Derek tries to cut
his car of his own path. I do not want to get into the polemics and I do not. I think I can learn
from all of them. In fact, I'll go lend a fist to people off. I could learn from more evangelical
academics. I could bring on someone like Gary Habermas. While I disagree with so many things,
there might be something I can learn, even if it's from a psychological point of view, where I'm
like, well, if I pressed him and said, hey, why wouldn't you draw this conclusion? This seems
to make more sense, don't you think? I mean, I could learn from anyone is my point. And that
doesn't mean I have interest in spending two hours metaphorically pulling my hair out of my head
interviewing Gary. I'm just saying you can learn from anyone and everyone. And that doesn't mean
everything that everyone says is accurate or true. We'll get into that. My struggles,
my real struggle, why I bracketed on the thumbnail and read my struggles aren't all the things listed
on the screen. They've never been my struggles. I just naturally go these paths. My struggle is
being a human and empathizing with other humans who have crafted narratives and superstitions
that may have naturally arose or even in some way are invented or a combination of the two
with death. I think about death more now that I'm not a believer than I ever have when I was a
Christian. I took it for granted. I was going to heaven. I believe. Hallelujah. No worries.
Don't worry. And in fact, I was so naive in my own thinking as a believer and a chosen one of God,
I was predestined to believe in the spirit of God lives within me that I would believe in my mind
or at least convince myself sometimes that no matter what path I can choose to go, God's not
going to take me yet. He has a plan for me and that technically I could even push the boundaries
if I wanted to to do something risky with my life and that God would save me. I had this naive
perception because well, when you read your Bible, you can you can kind of see some fantastical stuff
about how adventurous the apostles were and I'm a chosen one of God just like they were chosen one
of God. And so there's a sense in which you get, I would say, deceived by the perception
that you and this may be my own fault, my own doing, but I believed that I was another one
that God was using as he did the apostles. And so that perception was there, but I wrestle
online with apologetics and people who are believers that I know are decent people. For the
most part, there's probably some assholes out there, but for the most part, the people that I
engage with are humans that I think struggle with the same fears and doubts and issues we all do.
And I feel like when I'm doing these polemical videos and responses and constantly tackling what
I would say are bad arguments that aren't consistent or most probable, you don't get to see my heart.
You don't get to see how much I really do care about humans. If any one of these people, mostly
men who I'm engaged with, ever needed me, actually said, D, I need someone to talk to or I'm legit
struggling here or I need someone in confidence or I'm hurting and something happened or they were
with me in a situation happened where they needed medical help or anything like
I would bend over backwards to try and help these people. And because it's such a war online
between ideologies, it portrays this idea that we're kind of heartless toward each other and
we're going back and forth. And so I feel like there's this disconnect from what gets received
by the viewers and what reality is and reality is I imagine they would do the same for me.
And so I felt like this is my struggle and I told this to Dan McClellan the other day.
It's got to be tough when he deals with so much misinformation. And when he's doing
critical videos assessing latter earth or whatever the endless conspiracy theories
are that he is tackling or weird ideas, there's a sense in which you also have to empathize with
the human that is maybe stuck in superstition, misinformed, just not educated on these materials
or they have some type of I would say they're so deeply entrenched in that dogma and indoctrinated
they can't see. So I just feel like this human struggle inside of me I need to express to you
because I get emails from believers who thank me for the work. They don't agree with my
conclusion. They don't agree with this net. And I love the the ones who come in there mature
and they're like, you know what, I'm really glad you exist and your channel exists and stuff. And
I know that you're a good dude and keep doing what you're doing. I love it. You know, I disagree
with you and I appreciate those. But then you get the haters, you get the haters and the haters
tell me I'm on the right track as well with half the stuff they say. But there's a part of me as
a human that goes, man, this gets so heavy and thick in the debate or the back and forth that
sometimes we lose sight of what we have in common as humans. That's my struggle. I want to keep
critiquing. I want to keep being the person that I've been in terms of showing critical thought.
But I also want to do these documentaries that aren't always as polemical and they're more educational
and fun and enjoyable. And yeah, I kind of needed to just unburden to you, the audience, and say
my struggles aren't that's not consensus. Like it irritates me sometimes I might get bothered by it,
but my real struggle is how do I get the people in the world to know who I really am? How do I get
you to know my heart and what I really think and how I feel? And it's not just rational stuff,
critical thinking that I do, but like as a real human who cares about human beings and wants what's
best for the world and stuff. So it gets lost and I wanted to express that up front. So before I
continue, I needed to go and let you know where my thoughts were and how I felt about this. Now
let me scroll up here. Uh-oh. We've got a super chat here too. Just going from the top here. Ola,
Deb, whatever you saw, you were Reep. Benny Hens been in here for a while. I don't know if that's
based off of the Benny Hens that's like the rob you of your money preacher on TV or if your real
name's Benny Hens. So forgive me, but you've been in here for a minute. Kevin, Saadut. Saadut. Oops,
what did I miss? Lobby brother, the first atheist president, harmonic atheist. Thank you so much,
Tim, for being here, man, showing some love, hanging out with me. I needed to just let you know
that I care. I do care about people and I'm sure they do the same for me.
But I just want to be as honest and truthful with the subject matters. I think I can be with
what tools I have and how I'm looking at the world and what makes sense in reality around me
from our everyday experiences. And so thank you so much. Thanks, Flaps. How to overcome adversity.
Okay, okay. Hi, Ricky Johnson. Thanks for being a member, Ricky. Appreciate it. By the way,
if you haven't and you're a member, go check out the latest documentary that is on monsters in the
Bible. It is based on God's monsters, the book, but it goes a little bit into other things. The
book doesn't cover seraphim, cherubim, the origin of Satan or the development of Satan, really,
how that plays out at origins development. We get into mot. We get into Leviathan in depth and
show you some really cool stuff. And so anyway, go check that out. If you're a member or a Patreon
member, you can see it right now. It is up. Other scholars would agree. Oops, I missed some octopus
red waving. Jackie, good to see you. Keanu, good to see you. Yep, it's tough. Gnostic informant,
my brother Neil. Thanks for being here in the super chat, man. It's not, it's only parallel
mania. If it's not Jewish, if it's Jewish, it's a fulfilled prophecy. And no, your opinion does,
does in fact matter. You've been interviewing experts and studying the material for years now.
Thanks for going to bat for me, man. I appreciate that. I'm saying that I'm no authority,
as you know, but I wouldn't straw man the position completely in saying if it's Jewish,
it's prophecy fulfilled necessarily. I would personally spell it out this way and, you know,
agree to disagree or whatever. For those critical scholars who don't think that it's prophecy
fulfilled, but purposeful midrashic kind of method in rewriting or recontextualizing scripture
because it's sacred into the narratives they find in the New Testament. But as you're going to see
in a discussion between Richard C. Miller and Dennis McDonald about what's going on with Mimesis
and Midrash, thanks to one of the Facebook followers who asked an interesting question,
is the New Testament doing Midrash or is it doing Mimesis? And the answer is it's doing both.
It's not just Midrash. It is doing Mimesis and Midrash. These authors, we take for granted how
clever, how smart these authors were and how they knew how to craft narratives, how they knew the
topoi. They knew tropes and themes and how to structure narratives. And they learned from the
greatest narrators in the world, from Homer, from Herodotus, from plays like Euripity.
You know, there's so many elements that they learned from the conventional Greek writings of
the day. And to see how much Hellenism impacted the Jewish world, we really need to start seeing
how Jews are now using Greek ideas in their thoughts when they're talking and when they're
writing, especially when it's written in Greek. And so it's parallelomania to some who aren't
persuaded that the motifs and whatnot are apparent. But of course, as you rightly point out, when you
start showing themes like how Matthew is rewriting a Moses story, having Jesus a central figure,
as soon as you pop in, the birth narrative is Alexander the Great parallel. Like there's
some influence that seems to be from the birth of Alexander the Great on Jesus here in Matthew.
We can't let that foreign Alexander the Great figure influence our thought on this Jewish
gospel. How dare you try to push these ideas that are outside of Jewish thought? Are they outside
of Jewish thought? At this point in history, I mean, when we look at Josephus, Josephus takes
the most central figure of the Jewish religion at the time, Moses. And what does he do? He has him
die just like the scripture saying that he revival. No, Moses does not die. He's taken up and has an
apopiosis. Hellenism so powerful at this period in history and has infiltrated, if you want to use
the term, Jewish communities and thought that Philo and Josephus, which is the sandwich buns of
Paul and the New Testament gospels and such are contemporaneous to this, they have rewrote
their Jewish figure to model it after a Greek Roman idea. Come on, ladies and gentlemen,
we need to stop this insulated Jewish bubble that, well, the gospels only could be impacted
with a Jewish idea and that's it. We aren't looking at the broader Greco-Roman world.
So, my fight is you're fighting ill. We're pushing the boundaries. We're pressing the
matter. We're interviewing academics that we think are on paths that we think need to be
recognized even if we don't agree with everything everyone says. We want to try and highlight
these things. Thank you so much for the super chat. The best thing for yourself is to think for
yourself. Thank you, Tom. I agree. I think doing your own research and looking into this material,
it's good to have experts in the field, though, in order to bounce it off of. What do you do
when experts in a field don't agree with other experts in a field? Especially, and I want to
highlight something that is an elephant in the room, when experts in a field have never studied
Homer, using the Greek example, Homer, Herodotus. They've never read these books. They've never
read Euripides. They don't understand from a classicist point of view how relevant, how prevalent,
how it was the oxygen that people who learned to write Greek and speak and read in Greek,
write in Greek, specifically, write in Greek, would have had to know these materials, at least be
acquainted with them in some way, shape, or form in schooling at the time. Pretty big deal. Who do
you listen to? You listen to the people who only want to look for Jewish antecedents, or do you
go to people who actually have some kind of expertise in researching those Greek materials
when we're reading Greek New Testament ideas? I know it's easy, in my opinion, to turn the brain
off and go, it is written, and you can find passages that are clearly what we would call
midrash, but the narrative structure, writing these narratives. Where do these stories,
how come they do have such similarity to the motifs, to the tropes we find so prevalent in
the Greek world? And this is what I want to highlight. I look at that Secret Messiah motif,
William R. Day in 1901, 1905, something like that, wrote about the Secret Messiah motif,
and even to this day, that's how it's coined in academia, but how often do you find that this
hidden identity of Jesus, he doesn't want people to know who he is, shh, tell no one,
don't let them know. You find this common motif with Odysseus and Homer. There is a long 700
years before this material, 700, 800 years before this material, Homer already has Odysseus do this
very thing. What's the deal with that? Like, why is that the case? Is it just theological, or does
Mark have a literary convention in mind? Then you add Euryklia, the foot washing idea that we
see with the woman washing Jesus' feet. Then you add these other strange elements that have
common motifs and parallels in some way, shape, or form, nothing's identical to Homer in Mark.
And that's the red flag, Mark's the one that's being, you know, refused to be looked at by academics.
And then you get Robin Faith Walsh on the scene who goes, well, I'm not looking to Homer,
I'm looking to the Aeneid, Roman Latin literature, contemporaneous or somewhat to the first century
right there, written before the Gospels, as a competitive piece of literature. Other academics
are willing to jump on Luke Axe. When they get to Mark, they want to go, let's distance this
material from any antecedents from the Greek or Roman world. And they're not really looking at it.
You have others like John Collins Adela, sorry, not John Collins, Adela Collins, she actually wrote
in her commentary on Mark, how it looks at Mark's competing with the Roman imperial cult, or at least
in some way, polemically, it's engaging with the Roman imperial cult.
Why are their blinders on? And why is it when Mark Bilby goes to publish something and he emails me
showing that the publishing company refuses to publish his work because he quotes and uses Dennis
McDonald in the publication and their responses, well, he's been heavily criticized.
So many scholars are heavily criticized. Sounds more political than truth seeking, in my opinion.
It's more like we're persuaded by Mitchell and Sannez, we're not persuaded by Dennis, therefore
we're not publishing any material that doesn't kind of fit what we want in our academic circles.
I'm irritated by it. So if I'm going to have to be an avenue that isn't within their academic
politically correct publishing avenue that gets these materials out there and has more
people to at least make up their own minds about it, then I will. This is part of my struggle.
Okay. Decades says New Testament scholars were so speculative too, we just don't have enough to
work with in order to know what actually happened thousands of years ago. I like the way you worded
that and I wanted to emphasize to know like we can have confidence maybe on certain ideas.
I tend to, but I don't know. I don't have this like strong dogmatic sense of absolutely getting
what absolutely happened with certainty or high, high, high, high confidence. I would have confidence
in some things, but that's my perception based on material that I've been reading. So
Neil says I agree 100%. Neil, I'm on a tangent today. I'm just running my mouth here. If you're
not an academic, why would you want to be taking sides with one side of an esoteric debate rather
than being open to all sides of an intellectual argument? Thank you for the comment. Thank you
for the comment. Matthew K, this is exactly why I love you and why I'm taking inspiration from you
to start my channels. Awesome. I hope more people do. We should have a lot more voices out there
that are inspired by these ideas. I don't do this because I just want to be right. It's like,
I actually love learning this material and I want to know what the case is and I see some
interesting ideas that don't get airtime in the academic consensus that I want to highlight.
I brought up one site that I wanted to bring up. It was actually a book. Let me show you that book
here. This book right here, right? It's, I think it's Von Vim Vassilius, something like that. I
probably butchered it. The origin of the history of Israel, Herodotus histories as blueprint for
the first books of the Bible. Now, why am I looking at this? Well, I find it interesting that a lot
of people think the composition of the Bible as we see it, especially the final redactor, takes
place post-exile. Our post-exile is debated, not agreed upon. Is it during Persian period? Is it
possibly even early, early Hellenistic? Could they have been inspired to write a history? I would
call it a mythic history of some sorts, a mythic legendary history of Israel, the first nine books
of the Bible, based on Herodotus, which starts, by the way, at creation and then gets down to the
Persian era where the Greeks and the Persians are going at it. He parallels a ton of material in here
and sees some really interesting overlaps. Is there genetic connection? Is there some kind of
indirect connection? Is this a literary, I don't know, is the schooling of the time for literary
elites to use these kind of ideas and tropes with dreams and all of this stuff that he parallels
here? Or is it parallelomania? Or is there something to it? But maybe some of the parallels
aren't there. And because there's some there are, it looks like you can maybe connect dots that aren't.
I don't know. But I don't care that the parallelomania says don't look at it. And then parallelophobia
is like, hey, just believe every parallel's there. No, you've got to be critical. You've got to be
balanced in the middle. This is not a consensus idea, even though, well, I'm not going to say it
isn't a consensus idea completely, because John Van Ceder's work and others are used in this as a
point of making there were some parallels between Greek histories of Herodotus and the biblical
texts in the primary history. But it gets pushed further by this scholar here. Where is this being
talked about? What about the book I'm holding in my hand here? Where is this here? This is the book
Adam and Eve and the Devil, A New Beginning. And this book I'm doing a documentary on next.
I am doing a documentary on this book. I don't care is what it is. Love me, hate me. Oh, well,
let me read to you what's on the back of this and tell you why it piques my interest. And this is
not a consensus argument, even though some of the reviewers of this work who helped in the editing
process of this book are heavy hitters. Some serious academics have played a part in helping
them assess this. And this is what it says. In this book, the authors develop an intriguing theory
about the Canaanite origins of the biblical traditions concerning the origin of the cosmos
and the creation of humankind. Adam Eve and the Devil tells a new story about human beginnings
and at the same time processes a fresh start for biblical research into primordial traditions.
A number of clay tablets from Ugarit dating from the late 13th century BCE
throw new light. Corpel and De More argue on the background of the first chapters of Genesis and
the myth of Adam. In these tablets, El, the creator deity and his wife, Asherah, lived in a vineyard
or garden on the slopes of Mount Ararat, known in the Bible as the mountain where Noah's Ark came
to rest. The first sinner was not a human being, but an evil god called Horan, or H-O-R-O-N,
who wanted to depose El. Horan was thrown down from the mountain of the gods, and in revenge,
he transformed the Tree of Life in the Garden into a Tree of Death and enveloped the world
in a poisonous fog. Adam was sent down to restore life on Earth, but fell because Horan, in the form
of a huge serpent, bit him. As a result, Adam and his wife lost their immortality. This myth found
its way into the Bible, the Apocrypha, and the pseudopigraphical literature, though it was often
transformed or treated critically. Adam, even the devil, traces the reception of the myth in its
many forms and also presents the oldest pictures of Adam and Eve ever identified, one of them
on the front cover of the book. And this is the front cover of the book here. This is supposed
to be the oldest image of Adam and Eve, according to them. You see the Tree symbolism. I think there's
a serpent in that symbol. This is ancient. I think Ugarit or something to that effect. Now,
I don't know about you, but if you've done any research and you've dug into critical scholarship,
most academics in the field don't actually go from what I understand to a specific antecedent
for the origin myth of Adam and Eve. They can find elements and traces of the myth in Gilgamesh
and other poems and stories in Mesopotamia that have trees of life and the Adapa myth has this
kind of idea. You find the clay, that's everywhere where they God pinch off a piece of clay and
they breathe life or find ways in mixing things to make humans. That's so prevalent. That's
everywhere. I mean, it's ubiquitous, but the other ideas of a serpent and humans and a sex
act taking place, stuff like that, there's so much to cover. Why aren't we highlighting this? Well,
the only way it's okay and acceptable is if this gets peer reviewed and everyone
chews on it and says, hey, this is the case. I'm not necessarily going through that kind of process
here. I'm not trying to just bring up anyone and everyone's idea about what's going on either. I am
critical. I've had countless emails from people, please review this book and do a video on this or
let's talk about this book. And I'm not persuaded by what I'm seeing on the email and it's not
something that catches my attention or seems too out there in some cases. That's my own personal
assessment, what I'm doing here. But this is a legit, interesting topic from how they're
interpreting these particular tablets in New Garrett that aren't being interpreted that way
by other academics in some sense and they think they've missed something. Well, I want to investigate.
Did you know that not all the ideas that Francesca Stavrakapoulou says are as accepted among
all academics in this consensus field? Well, I don't care. I like to actually engage in the
material and see what she's saying. And overall, I think she's correct. This God is another
Ancient Near Eastern deity, right? And I think that would be consensus. Let's talk about the upcoming
interview I have coming with Canada Moss. And I hope I'm pronouncing it properly, her name.
But God's Ghostwriters. This book started it. It's fantastic. I'm really enjoying this. She did
an interview on Bart Ehrman's episode. We edited it because we edit Bart Ehrman's podcast as well.
And there's an interesting observation. If you look at Bart's face when she throws out some ideas,
his face, when he doesn't agree with something, he kind of goes like kind of like this mean mug
look like he's not in agreement here. This is really odd. I don't know other scholars who are
arguing this. Well, let's just say there's something interesting she highlighted that I've
heard before from James Tabor. And that is the idea of Mary, the virgin birth idea.
Is it consensus that Mary was potentially a prostitute? I know it's sensitive. I know it's
controversial because that's that dirty word for a woman who works in sex work and stuff.
Well, there seems to be an idea, Canada Moss is seeing, that Jesus doesn't have a father named
in Mark. And if you read the genealogy in Matthew, four women in the genealogy in Matthew are women
who we would call promiscuous in the genealogy of Jesus. These are women like the harlot in
Rahab the harlot that is found in the Jericho scene. These are women like, I think it's Ruth,
could be mistaken, but there's four women that were promiscuous in the biblical account.
And they just so happen to be in that line of Jesus. And some have noticed, man, this seems
a little scandalous. Like, is it possible that Mary out of wedlock was doing things that are a bit
not okay, according to the law of Moses? And then you have works like Dennis McDonald who's
highlighted what he thinks this, which this would put in my odds with some of the scholars,
is that the woman who's being forgiven, forgiven for fornicating, I think, or it's adultery,
I think it's fornicating in the scene where Jesus says, he who is without sin cast the first stone,
because he said, Moses says stoner. Well, that Mary that is highlighted there could be,
this is speculative, Jesus mother. And so I'm not saying it is, she's not saying it is,
neither is James Tabor saying it is. But this is an interesting idea that you don't find out there,
it's pushing the limits, pushing the boundaries. I want to highlight those interesting ideas,
because I think you could make it, I might even do a documentary on the whole virgin birth
story for Jesus and highlight some more down to earth aspects that may give us some red flags.
And even outside of the New Testament, how Jews kind of circulated this idea that it's Jesus,
I think Jesus been Pantera, son of the panther son, son of Pantera, which may have been a jab at
him being a Roman soldier. The father of Jesus may have been a Roman soldier. I don't know. I mean,
nobody knows, but aren't these fun things to explore? Maybe not if you have, this is sacrilege,
this is blasphemy, this is sacred, we cannot do that. Dogma, right? So dogma maybe stops us.
The existential vegan, thank you for being here. You are heretic, absolutely I am.
Inquisitive mind, the ghost will always be looking out for you. The ghost of myth vision,
good to see you here, my friend. Let me scroll down. I'm missing some supers here.
Oh, hi, Baron. Good to see you. Bro, you're a grifter and a con artist with no real convictions.
Acceptance is the first step. Don't shoot the messenger. I'm trying to see that profile picture.
I'm a grifter and a con artist with no real convictions. Don't you love it when people
pop into your chat like that and just like, it's interesting to just see. I don't know if a grifter
would even highlight this kind of comment, but that is one of the complaints on this Reddit thread
that also made, like I've been wanting to talk about my real struggles as a human and showing
empathy and wanting to be more balanced in how I show that on YouTube. But in this one,
our myth vision video is reliable and academically. Is his stuff good? I don't know. There seem to be
mixed opinion. Do his videos be in line with academic consensus? Is he worth watching? There is a ton
of griping in this, right? And a lot of it is just people that make flat out, I would say,
accusations that are false in many cases, but some of them are subjective, like
bitching complaints and things like that. The answer is sometimes, and that is a problem with
that channel. They will have world leading university professors on one week, then conspiracy
nut jobs posing as scholars the next. If you watch the videos to learn, then it probably means
you also don't have the expertise to know which of the guests is reliable and which are not.
My sense has been that the channel has gotten better in the regard over the years, but it remains
incredibly clickbaity, right? Even misquoting legitimate scholars they bring on in the thumbnails.
I know several scholars who have declined limitations to go on for the above reasons.
That's a really interesting accusation, right? Like, I know several scholars who have rejected
going on, and I'm trying to see where my comment is because I actually say, do me a favor and
let me know because I haven't emailed scholars to join me on MythVision. I haven't been sending
out emails like I once did in the past in a long time. Have I requested to interview academics
that I'm not already in contact with? So I'm really thinking that this is actually misinformation
to kind of make people think they don't want nothing to do with coming on MythVision.
It really wouldn't matter to me if scholars said no, I'm not interested in coming on MythVision.
It's too polemical. He's into anti-apologetic kind of stuff. I don't want to wade into that material.
I respect that decision on many parts of people, but I also think that there is a bit of a faith-based
perception that many academics have who show up in the arena that we're engaging in,
and a lot of them aren't interested for that reason, I imagine. Like, they're not really
big fans of me being polemical or even being critical of religion in general. So I actually
commented a bunch of stuff in that, and I don't see my comment now. I don't know where that comment
went. I don't know if they deleted it or if it's still there, because they do police that room,
and they come up with all sorts of interesting things. One of the interesting things I was
trying to get before coming on was getting the credentials of Kit Davis, Joshua Bowen, and
just having those to be able to spell out. But the smart fool, I've had him come on before,
or he's commented on before, and we've responded to something of his criticisms of Dennis McDonald's
work, and his answer to that was this. So the answer to this is independent on type of videos.
When it comes to Derek, it's more about who he's interviewing. For example, he's got some great
interviews with Del Allison, James McGrath, and A.J. Levine, and all three of them are faith
people of faith, which I respect their faith. That's their decision. They should also respect
my criticisms of it. They should respect my decision to think it's not true if they think it is.
That's fine. And these scholars, I believe, do. But I have less interest in bringing them on to
attack their positions, because that's not the kind of guy I am, instead of trying to learn ideas from
them in the field. So I choose very carefully how I engage with particular scholars I have on. But
this is what it says. I imagine because they wouldn't get too interested and get turned off with that.
Of course they would. I mean, they're Christians. And A.J. is not a Christian. She is a practicing
Jew. So they are coming from a faith perspective. And a lot of A.J. Levine's work is to try and
have interfaith dialogue between Judaism and Christianity, finding that kind of balance and
having them communicate less hate toward each other and less animosity and whatnot. Whereas some
other scholars or people, then it tends to get pretty polemical and he sometimes goes on monologues
and starts to ask leading questions and, in general, deems certain positions that are perfectly
applicable as not critical or apologetics, et cetera. So I am saying that certain positions
that I think are not the case or sound a little bit polemic apologetic in some way, I think he's
saying you're going too far with that. There's positives and negatives to the channel. Overall,
barely a nice guy. When he doesn't get polemical, he brings a lot of enthusiasm and can be a fun
channel to watch when it comes to certain scholars and making their work accessible.
Well, I saw another comment by the smart fool. This one right here, my guest. So this is about,
he loves bringing young scholars more frequently such as Kip Davis, Joshua Bowen,
Richard C. Miller. Are these scholars good and do they be in line with academic consensus?
Smart Fool says, my guess is that these three are trying to grow their own audience,
grew up in fundamentalist Christian home, left like Jesus. So there is some similarity. Sometimes
it's hard to get consistent academic on channel. So having, I think I meant having these three
adds some regular scholars. Kip Davis is the most legit of the three as he has unlisted the most.
Joshua Bowen and it's Bowen, B-O-W-E-N. So like, anyway, the smart fool,
pretty much just, I would say is poisoning the well for people who are interested in getting
into this. But this is everybody's opinion and the opinions are tons of opinions. There's so many.
But the idea that Davis is more legit, I mean, they're all legit. All three of them are legit.
Like if I were to say, all right, who's more legit as a Dead Sea Scroll scholar focused on
Second Temple Judaism? If I said Joshua Bowen, or if I said Richard C. Miller is more legit,
because I know that they've studied these things and they know this, but he's more legit than
Kip Davis and that specialty, I'd be wrong. If I said, well, the more legit academic out of the
three here on classicist arguments or classicist ideas pertaining to Homer, the Greco-Roman world,
Roman history, Roman mythology, Romulus and Heracles and all that kind of stuff,
it would be Miller. Miller knows that material better. He specializes in that area with a very
keen eye, just like Kip would with Dead Sea Scrolls and just like Josh would as an Assyriologist
when it comes to the ancient Near East and Mesopotamia, law codes, all this kind of stuff.
The idea that he grades, and there's several people in here who grade academics,
because they personally don't like them is my opinion. They don't like what they're doing with
these interviews or how it's being geared toward breaking down what we would say are superstitions.
I just find that a little tasteless to me. It's like, that makes me wonder like,
where are you at in your thinking and what makes you draw these kind of conclusions about these
academics? They go on a tirade against Richard Carrier as well and the list goes on and on and
the thing is, I know that mythicism is not a consensus idea and I talk to Richard Carrier
about this stuff. I personally think there was a Jesus and I'm persuaded that makes more sense in
my head. I don't know with certainty but I'm highly confident that makes the best sense in my mind
based on everything that I've looked at. Well, can I learn from Richard Carrier? You
bet your ass I can. There's a lot of material I can learn from him and because there's so much
tribalistic political correctness and all of this stuff going back and forth, you can't even interview
the guy without catching shit from people. It's like, really? I just want to be true to myself and
have these interviews and discuss where I think people are right. I'm subscribed to Richard Carrier's
blog and I think he gets a lot of stuff right and where I think he gets things right, I'm
interested in having those discussions to learn from him. Nity says, stop with your poo poo on
Jesus. Just kidding. Nity, thanks for being here and being a member. I hope you watch. I want to
hear some comments from people about our latest documentary that members of the Patreon and the
YouTube are watching. Let me know what you think. I think this this documentary is one of the better
ones and thank you for the super chat as well, my friend. You should check Maro Biglino. I don't
know who that is. Scrolling down, I got to catch up to you guys. They're super chats. Kevin in the
hizzy. Kevin non non-tradikath, forgive me. I cannot pronounce names. I'm sorry.
We can tell that you are a real one, an authentic soul in a purely atheistic sense, of course.
It wouldn't matter if you were purely atheistic or not. It does not matter because I get the point
and we love you for it. Please don't ever change. Keep being you. We love you, dude.
Well, thank you, man. That means a lot. I really appreciate that. I know my mind is going to change
a hundred times as I learn more and I hope that people take that journey with me and disagree with me.
Oh, Alexander says, bro, the movie Zeitgeist has been torn apart. Why do y'all myth that this is
still clean to the lie that Jesus fits some kind of trope or template? Pro tip. He didn't. Oh, this
is a great, great, great comment. I have to address this because this is the problem. This is the
freaking problem that we're dealing with. And I don't know if you feel like I feel this is such a
headache having to parse out because people on the apologetic side, the more this stuff literally
happened, approach the New Testament, they believe this stuff in some way versus those that are Zeitgeist,
which by the way, at one point, Zeitgeist many years ago had my eye going, whoa. So I initially
thought, whoa, what if Jesus really is? Wasn't that I was fully sold, but it made me wonder,
what if Jesus isn't the one? And there's so many other deities that I've never really taken the
time to consider and think. It's kind of hard to explain, but like, when you're born in a bubble,
live in a bubble, taught a bubble, you don't consider all the bubbles out there as authentic.
You think yours is right. We got the real one. This is true, especially when that's what you're
teaching the people in those bubbles. Well, I started to expand my mind and think, what if I'm
wrong? That's what Zeitgeist did for me initially. What if I'm wrong? And it has been torn into pieces
at least it's been highly criticized and showing that some of the sources by Dian Murdoch who
highlights things in that documentary, the work is based off of, the sources don't say these things
to some extent. They're definitely stretching a lot of these parallels and really overkilling it.
Parallelomania, right? But inventive parallelomania, like they're inventing things. The problem is,
first of all, I'm not a myth-assist anymore, but that really doesn't even matter.
The lie that Jesus fits some kind of trope or template, pro-tip he didn't. This is where I would
say you have not studied enough, my friend, at least not materials that actually show he does fit
a trope and template. If he didn't, let me get kosher for you for one second. If he didn't,
then why is the Gospel of Matthew crafting him to look like Moses? Let's go where it's safe,
right? We can't go to that Greek Roman stuff. God forbid. Okay, Moses, why are they in,
they are purposely crafting Jesus to look like Moses? Why? Why are they doing that in a literary
sense? I'm talking Delcey Allison Jr. Come on. He will say that's not a memory. That never happened.
That is literary. That is instructive. That is the fanciful pin of the author making Jesus look
like Moses. He must look like a template or trope of Moses, right? At least. Where you won't swallow
the pill, I'm sure, is when you start recognizing other motifs that are very common, if not ubiquitous
in the Greek and Roman literary works of the day, that you find common themes like the birth narratives.
I could pull down Suetonius. Did I need to pull it down? I don't even need to pull it down. I got
it right here. It's almost like I know guys like you appear in the chat and he goes into talking
about the Senate. There are poor tents to his birth. His mother's divinely impregnated by Apollo
in the form of a serpent. Next thing you know, nine months later, here comes Caesar Augustus.
And the Senate says, don't rear up any children that year because politically, they want to kill
all the infants because they're worried about a prophecy coming true that usurps their power in
the Senate. Let's go on and on. You really need to read more widely, my friend, and you might help
yourself if you do. Let me keep going down here and get these supers because when you throw supers,
man, I can't leave you hanging. Dr. Andy says, we love your expertise and your big heart.
You are enlightening in the best sense. Thanks, Derek. Oh, thank you, Dr. Andy. Appreciate that.
Thanks for the love and the support. I don't know about the expertise. I'm an expert at grabbing
information, and I do think that I would fit that, an expert at grabbing the information and
putting it out there in front of you in an easier to understand way, I feel. So I'm pretty good at
that. But I am not an expert in any particulars, just a jack-of-all-trades kind of guy. Thank you
for that compliment. It means a lot. A says, did the Atrahasis epic have influence on Judaism?
Wow, that's a very interesting question. The Atrahasis epic, well, I think it had an impact
on Genesis, specifically in the flood narrative and what we see in the creation accounts,
there's definitely something going on with Atrahasis. So I would say, yes, it had influence on
Judaism in that sense. Judaism, though, we have to define. And I feel like
the religion of Judeans in the Persian period and before, potentially pre-exile and stuff,
it's a completely different kind of religion. But even post-exile, we still see elements of
an archeology and whatnot of a polytheistic system, where you still have a chief deity,
but it's still polytheistic. Judaism becomes this specific defined religion, I think politically,
by the time you get into the Hellenistic period. And then you're dealing with Maccabees, you're
dealing with that period onward. So I don't know if the Atrahasis epic back here is influencing
that, but I do know it's influencing the text of the Bible in some way, shape, or form,
it has inspired these ideas. So thank you. I hope that answers your question.
Okay, desecrated cake. Thanks for everything you do, Derek. I love the way you think. When I
finish my fictitious religion for RPG setting, I'll send you a copy of its Bible. Thanks so much
for the super chat. Really appreciate it. And by the way, speaking of like, it's not RPG, but
I don't know, I'm a video game guy. I like certain games, Fallout. I love that game Bethesda. And
the show is on Amazon Prime now. I just started it last night and I'm in love. But then again,
I nerd out on that game and I love the Fallout game. Fallout 3 with the mother's favorite Bible
verse being Revelation 21, 22, the living waters or something, and the whole post-apocalyptic world
above ground, like the waters radiated and people are dying because they don't have water. It's kind
of a fun fulfillment of prophecy. Abram Isaac Kaplan. Forgive me if I butchered your last name
there. Thank you for producing the best biblical criticism content on the web. You're doing God's
work, even if you're a self-proclaimed atheist. Hello. We need more people like you who are
willing to talk to everyone with an open mind. Well, thank you so much, Abram. I don't know
how open my mind is. Just ask many people online and they'll say, he doesn't believe that Jesus
rose from the dead or he doesn't believe it. Moses split the Red Sea at the power of Yahweh
or whatever. So they'll say I'm closed minded because I have this kind of naturalist worldview.
And in a sense, they're right in a sense. I mean, we all have bias, but I'm open minded in the sense
of it could be changed if something actually happened that showed that my worldview wasn't
correct, especially when these texts over and over and over have this God actively doing these
things in the real world according to the text. Just a tip. I have a documentary coming out.
I'm still recovering from this. So Yako Garika. Forgive me if I butchered the last name. He's
in South Africa. He's a doctor in Old Testament studies and he's a philosophy guru. So he knows
the philosophy as well as biblical critical thinking. He wrote a 2004 paper called Does
Yahweh Exist? And it's all about like anti realism to show you that Yahweh does not exist outside of
the text of the Bible or any of the literature that writes about him. And he goes into so many
arguments like there's so much argumentation in this that it took me four hours and 50 minutes
to record my audio. That's not counting the AI that quotes the Bible verses.
So the documentary by the time it's done might be four or five hours long. I don't know. It's a lot
though. So these are arguments I never really thought about this way. They're very, very well
thought out. And even in those sections you could exhaust them even further. But we would end up being
here forever trying to get through the video. So I could not and he did not write the script any
longer than it really needed to be. There's just so much. But are we open minded? Well which Yahweh
exists because there's several Yahweh's in the Hebrew Bible and they don't agree with each other.
And we're going to show all of that in this documentary coming up.
All right. Hold on. I'm trying to scroll down here. There's a bunch of comments.
Okay. The smart fool. There he is. Okay. I take criticisms. But you know me, man.
I like your thumbnail here. I'm surprised you didn't go the return of the talk
title route that parallels your former. We need to talk. I went with just my struggles.
I do do click baby titles. That's the perfect moment to make my point about this.
And I hope more viewers can empathize and those who get mad about my titles. There's some of you
are watching right now with 361 people who get upset about the titles. I've seen some of the
comments. Some of you don't mind them. They know that they're their jabs for fun and attention
grabbing and stuff like that. But if you were in my shoes, think about this. You're a YouTuber.
Your goal is to get as much attention for the academic works that you're trying to promote,
the ideas that you're trying to get out there. And you drop a video. Let's just take...
Let's do the one I just did on Monsters in the Bible. And I titled this Monsters in the Bible
documentary something like a deep dive or not even a deep dive. Let's not get too descriptive here.
A scholarly adventure into supernatural beings in the Bible.
Does it grab your attention? Some of you maybe. Okay, that'll be interesting to see supernatural
beings. But if you say something a little bit more like the real truth about monsters in your
Bible, well, you might go, what's the real truth about monsters in your Bible? And then you go
through a Leviathan and you go through these clickbaity titles. And then you look at the analytics
and you say, okay, this documentary got 15,000 views. That's a lot of views for some of you who
might be YouTubers watching me. But for some of you, you might go, okay, and then I pop another
one out that gets half a million views. Half a million people clicked and decided I'd watch
one second up to whatever amount of viewer viewing of that documentary. What happened between
15,000 and half a million can be several factors. And the number two, like top two,
I mean, is the title and the thumbnail. Your content can be gold. It'll get views over time.
But as far as getting the attention you need, you have to compete. And so I'm trying my best
to compete. And half a million numbers don't lie versus 15,000 views. You have to kind of do that
in order to try and compete. And by the way, I stand behind the title that I'm actually putting
up there. The real truth about monsters in your Bible with God's monsters being the book that we
base it off of. Yeah, I stand behind that title because once you look at it, you see the development
of Satan. You see Leviathan. You see all of these creatures and how the ancients perceived them,
these mythological creatures. I just find that when I see those comments for the hundreds of
positive ones, it's like, dude, you're bickering over a title. You're bickering over how I labeled
my thumbnail or something. It's just really, really weird. But by the way, I don't want you to
take personal, my critique of some of the comments that you make in the academic forum on what is
it called? Academic biblical or something. Yeah, this right here. But I have, when I don't agree
or I think something isn't correct or I think that an assessment by you, for example, isn't right,
you're quick to show that you don't agree with certain things that Dennis might say or at least
you're critical of certain things. I don't see any problem with doing the same here. And I know
that you know I'm not a hater or anything of what you do. I hope more people will take serious
Bible stuff. I just found this whole thread full of misinformation or even just personal gripes
about what I'm doing. And it's a lot of subjective, in my opinion, nonsense in some ways towards people,
towards what I do and things I'm doing here at MythVision. But as I say in my comment underneath,
the one at the bottom somewhere is that this is to be expected. I don't know who's deleting stuff.
I feel like there's stuff being deleted here. Okay, I think...
I haven't read this. So, okay, I think it's worth starting off the fact that your channel is very
frequently linked to here. Many of your most regular guests are pretty beloved figures by
our users. Robin Faith Walsh is a fan favorite here and was gracious enough to do two AMA events
with us. Awesome. I didn't even know about this. Most recently, we were lucky enough to host an
AMA event with Jacob L. Wright, among many other scholars you've had on as guests. I know M. David
Litwa, Canada Moss, Kip Davis, Del Allison, and among many others are all loved by our subreddit.
And even the more controversial figures like Dennis McDonald have their strong supporters here.
That all being said, I'm sensing the conflict is coming from the fact that our two platforms,
Academic, Biblical, and MythVision, just have two different goals, very different goals. You
mentioned in this comment that you do get polemical and think it's necessary. And I want to start off
by saying that on a personal level, as someone raised in a conservative Mormon household, I can
respect how what you do does help people. I don't think either one of our goals are inherently more
correct or better than the other, but they are different. Totally agree. Our platform is meant
to be a place to discuss Biblical academics away from the endless cycle of apologetics, counter
apologetics, and polemics. It's not perfect. And I think everyone can acknowledge pervasive issues
in the field, but we do our best and attempt to treat this like any other subject in history
in a hopefully less charged way. But I think because of that, users here, when discussing your
channel, will likely focus on the polemical aspect of your goal as one that's at odds with what this
subreddit is intended for and what most of our regular users like come on for. For example,
they may point out the fringe nature of someone like Richard Carrier in the same way that someone
who is interested in learning about medieval France may want to know if the scholar they're
listening to has been pretty roundly rejected by their field. And for context, when I address the
field, I never include the apologetics industry. I know it can be also seemed like a slippery
stroke from addressing someone like Carrier as French to perhaps dismissing truly excellent
scholars like Robin Faith Walsh or M. David Lowe as French. But for what it's worth, I do think
our subreddit does a good job with that as both of those figures and the many more I mentioned
previously are again broadly favorably viewed by our users in a way Carrier isn't. It'll never
be perfect. And we have a diverse range of users here who have it vastly different views on things,
but for the most part, I do think it works. When it comes to our different goals, though,
as a bit of a test case, what you say near the end about working on a documentary showing Yahweh
doesn't exist ontologically is the sort of thing that likely puts an asterisk next to your channel
name when I get recommended here. Not that we don't have many atheists agnostic or otherwise
non-Abrahamic users who would agree with you, but that is so far outside the scope of what
this subreddit is here for that your channel ends up being hard to recommend in this specific space
without qualifying it in some way. I hope I've made sense and do hope as well that there aren't
hard feelings here. I do think the overlap between the content you and your team produces and our
subreddit here is often greater than the differences. I know that many users here,
myself included, are sincerely grateful for the many interviews you've conducted with top scholars
in the field. And like another commenter, as well as yourself, you pointed out in this thread,
I think the quality of your channel has generally improved over time. I think, however, there's
room for an acknowledged and respected difference between the broad goals of our two platforms
and how that might influence the degree to which your platform would be endorsed as a resource
for the types of users most interested in our own platform. Sorry for how long this all is.
It really got me away from me. It really got away from you. Sorry. I very much hope you take care
and that your channel experiences continue success. Yeah. Thank you for that. That was awesome.
I appreciate that. I do think that that might highlight one of the other problems in academic
biblical, like you're dealing with academic biblical materials and as highlighted by Yako Garike,
which is the scholar who wrote Does Yahweh Exist ontologically, it's all based on biblical
scholarship that he's making philosophical conclusions about. So you could find a way
to pitch it, just highlighting it. But I find the problem is when you go to classicist,
I don't know a single classicist that even has this sacred approach to Zeus.
People aren't reading Ugaritic materials. As far as I'm aware,
doing any kind of apologetics in any way, shape, or form, and it doesn't influence the field
on its conclusions about this. So sometimes I will notice things that I'm like, that's kind of
being overly sensitive, but maybe that's because there's a living religion attached to this that's
still there. And in some cases, I don't see that. Like John Collins quickly pointing out
prophecy in the Bible, all this cool stuff that I love to highlight. I just want to call a spade
a spade. And when I see that, you're going to get me reacting to people who are trying to push
in the arena. This actually happened. And some people's fight, isn't that some people want to
just live in the land of let's just deal with scholarship and ignore the fact that there are
massive influences politically, socially, and in the world around us from people who are strongly
devout believers, pushing their worldview on others, finding ways to make what happened in
the Joshua's conquest ethically okay. Because God said so. I came from that. So there is that
background and many people relate to it. I just thought there was so much bickering on that page
about what I'm doing. And there was a little misinformation. Even the person that I just
read that quote from mentioned the person who said that I asked it sounded like I asked to
interview these scholars and they rejected coming on. I know they wouldn't tell me who I doubt
there's anyone behind that, that there's this list of scholars that they're aware of. But I don't
email scholars. That's why I'm thinking, hold on, I haven't been emailing any academics.
And this unless you're saying years ago, there's something I don't really know. And that might
have been when I had Bob Price on and I was full blown mythicist and things I was interviewing and
doing. So I don't know. But anyway, the smart fool, there's so much I'd love to have Dennis
McDonald respond to your critique on Mark and Homeric stuff. I sent it to him, wanted him to
read it. I felt it was a bit pedantic. But overall, it's an interesting thought experiment to dive
into. I see that the fight isn't Luke Axe. The fight is Mark is Mark aware of Homer in some way,
at least the themes of the stories of Homer in some way. And is he using that to craft his
narrative about Jesus? I tend to think that there is something there. And I would maybe even go to
the Aeneid and say, how's the Aeneid using the mesas of Homer? Is it verbatim? Is it identical?
No. And so the liberty and imagination of the author of Virgil that is writing the Aeneid
to craft his story we know is using Homer, I tend to say we should be looking at this again and
really not at least not close the door, disagree with Dennis all you want, closing the door on the
guy from having a seat at the table. That's what pisses me off. Anyway, thank you for showing up
here. Audrey in Paris, I so appreciate the way you are still highlight different types of scholars
or type of scholars. You are one of my favorite hosts love from Paris, Paris, France. Thank you so
much. I really, really appreciate that. I can see my personality being a love me hate me kind of
thing. You are the like Derek or you don't kind of thing. What do you do? Yeah. What do you do?
Thank you so much. Nothing. I love this kid. He lie and deceive people through his content.
Thank you everybody for all the positive stuff in the cheesy.
We did okay. Mormon no Mormon. I like the name. Okay. I am not and forgive me. I am not a what is
this site? Not a Reddit user. I have a Reddit account from back when I started my recovery
channel like eight years ago. But I am not like really acquainted with this platform. This was
sent to me from a dear friend. They saw it like you should come check this out and see what they're
saying. And I'm like, Oh my God, again, I hope it's not negative. And I go in there and of course,
most of its negative only a few I would I felt a few that were positive comments. It wasn't
the best environment for mid vision. But this is to be expected. This is to be expected. I mean,
we're going on almost a quarter of a million people. And there's a reason we're growing.
But if you're looking for a completely like we aren't doing any polemics, we just want to do
academic work and just highlight how Matt Marks using Virgil or using Robin Faith Walsh, for
example, or show failed prophecies, which I don't know how you can't dodge the conclusion
that this means failed profit. Like when you do these kinds of things, you automatically start
positioning yourself in opposition to the apologetic side based on that. And so I am in an arena
where there is polemical stuff going on and I decide to engage in it. That might get me in
trouble with those who are like, we're high and mighty, we have no interest in even giving them
any time of day. There's real people being influenced by these apologists. And so I guess
I have a different fight. I have a totally different battle that I'm seeing like, hold on,
if the Bible shows that Jesus failed in terms of apocalyptic expectations or Paul or Old Testament
prophecies. And there's people out there who are like driving home that this did not fail.
What's wrong with critiquing that, right? I know you're not saying nothing wrong on my end,
but like, I don't get why that wouldn't be welcome in academic biblical discussions
in Reddit if you're hosting it. I don't know why you wouldn't do it. Why not tackle bad,
false ideas or at least try to, you're willing to do it with Dennis McDonald's work. You're
willing to critique these other academics that I've had on, but we can't do this to apologetics
and show how nonsensical some of that stuff is. That's how I feel. Durand chilies,
forgive me if I butchered your name. I've probably butchered it in one or the other way.
Why in the book of Mark was there a naked man in the garden with Yeshua when he was arrested?
Should Yeshua have been part of a part of the occult? So this is an interesting observation.
Many have pointed out there's even Morton Smith wrote or at least says he discovered
the secret gospel mark where there's this idea of initiation stuff going on where
the nakedness idea, even early church Christians baptized nude. There seems to be initiation
practices at night that could have been done in nude. This is what some have tried to say.
There are others like Dennis McDonald who thinks this has some Homeric antecedent.
Some just think there was a naked young man there at the tomb and it was an angel because
they look at Matthew and they go, well Matthew's interpreting Mark and so they go with Mark.
There's so many different interpretations is all I'm saying. I don't know the answer.
I don't know. I like to entertain different ideas about this but I know that sometimes our
modern sensitivities don't match the ancient world and the practices they may have been doing
and so I apologize that I'm not any of these experts over here who can go and elaborate what
the meaning is in that particular location but if you go back and listen to any of my Dennis
McDonald material you can get his view. I know that you can just go read Matthew and see what he
did with the empty tomb scene and that some people have understood this as angels or an angel.
I don't know and it also my video that's early released right now for those who are paying
members of Midfish's Patreon and the YouTube membership that eventually will get launched
over the next week or so but in it we go over this idea of cherubs that we would consider angels
and how they have this like young naked art in Greek and Roman art and so it makes me wonder
totally speculating here but like could it have been an angel because a cherub of some sort because
in art at this time they're equating angels with these kind of little children type
angels. They look like human type angels that are in art in the Greek and Roman world
and like Eros and other deities that are found in the Greek world. They get that iconography
in the art. I don't know. I'm speculating. I'm trying to make sure I don't miss anything here
because I'm terrible here.
Scrolling down. Forgive me. There's a lot of comments here.
John Clark says repent while you still can.
Dan, Hanrahan, Rehan. It's like I'm not the guy. I'm not the guy to pronounce everybody's names.
I'm sorry. Thank you, Neil and Jacob Berman helping me recover from Catholic traumas by
bringing these ideas from the Academy to the public. Thank you. Thank you so much for the love
and yeah. I think that a lot of the academic work inevitably makes one draw those kind of
conclusions in some way shape or form. I feel like I don't know how you can't find the conclusion
based on what scholars are finding with the text that we're dealing with man-inspired materials.
That's what seems to be clear. Now, if one wants to have some type of theistic belief and what not,
go for it. But I don't know how we can't draw that. We're dealing with human authorship and
with human ideas. Mr. Donna, 99. Derek, you just get better and better. Can't please everyone. No,
I can't. I wish I could, which is also the struggle. But it's not just about pleasing everybody.
It's about, you know, being true to myself is my goal. And I do try the best I can to be that
good human that I know I am. But when I think something's wrong, I want to go out and fight,
you know? Let's talk about this. I think this is an interesting point. JC in the house, Ezekiel
ate saffron, not a book. Heaven rolls up. JC, thanks for this super chat. I appreciate the love.
That's funny. Thank you. Thank you. I appreciate the love, everybody. Lost fan in the house. Oh,
shoot. I missed the intro. I hope we are still myth vision. Let me know, Derek, when you can.
I love your work. You make the world better. Thank you so much. All of you make the world better too.
And in case you're still wondering, we are myth vision. Yes, we are.
Welsh back. Welsh back, come on. I am horrible with names. Don't trust folks who don't have
Suetonius to hand. Well, to be fair, I usually have it here because it's one of the quickest
go to birth narratives that really spells out portents, divine birth, and the Senate plotting
a scheme to kill off the infants just like Herod in Matthew's Gospel. And so, yeah, there you have it.
I like to pull up Suetonius on that matter a lot. Exem music, that's just like your opinion,
man. Love your channel, man. Thank you. Thank you, Exem music. I appreciate that. I think that's in
response to the initial comment you made where I think this is relating to Jesus' historicity.
I just think makes the most sense to me. This guy was mythologized to the core, but I get why.
I mean, briefly in a nutshell, the reason I became a mythicist because I saw so much mythology or
what we would label mythology, the technical term for myth is this really ancient pre-Diluvian.
I think there's like a technical term, something like this, where way back here,
you're dealing with myth and then after a certain time, you'd call it legend. But either way, he
has been mythologized, made into a legend so thoroughly that it's easy to get caught up in
that and think the guy didn't exist. This is an invented cult. We're dealing with a lot of fiction.
And then you can kind of go backwards and go, okay, hold up. Maybe there was a guy and this was
something they would do to humans is make them legends and invent these things about them.
That's why I think I went that route. But I get it. I don't knock it. And yes, it is my opinion.
And that's your opinion, right? Thank you for the love and showing me some respect. And if I've
ever been hard on you in any comments in the past, I want to apologize. I get sometimes people that
are fans that have been there from day one when they come in and they say something. I'm like,
say something nice for once. Damn it. I don't want to hear a critical this, critical that. Give me
something positive for my family here. Sorry, being me lost fan back again, bro. This live stream
comment section is wild. Anyone who wants some redunk content needs to catch your live stream,
read some of the live comments. Wow. Redunk. I don't know if that's, I don't know what redunk is.
Thank you for the super chat. Lost fan again. Derek, ever played Final Fantasy Tactics? I think
I did. That sounds familiar. Is that like Final Fantasy 13 or something? The game is all about
a church conspiracy to control the nation. And the final boss is Jesus, my fave game. What? Hold on.
What? I have never heard this. Final Fantasy, what is it called again?
Tactics. Is that like on a, hold on. I don't know if I played this one. This is like,
no, I never did play it, but you can tell by the, let me show you this. Hi, everybody.
You can tell like the art kind of gives this almost medieval looking or, I don't know, you
could take it that way. I've never played that one. I have seen it though. Thank you for that love.
Thank you for that love, my friend. All right. Hold on. Hold on. Let me get, let me get in the groove
here. All right. There's so many comments. I'm just trying to get through these.
Doran Chilles, you think David was myth or legendary? Good question. I don't know. I don't
know. I tend to think that, I tend to personally think that what we're reading, period, without a
doubt is, is legendary in the sense that if there was a David, and let's just take that what we've
found archaeologically, the House of David written on an inscription, I believe it was, archaeologically
we discovered that there was just some guy named David. That could be the case. And of course they
tack on narrative myth or legend. But I'm also open to him being a completely fictive character.
And there may be some antecedents for inspiration. The way that they
make his story is, is interesting. And I need to probably do a deep dive video just on King David
or Saul to David and see what we can discover of other figures that look similar in the way
they wrote literary works and antiquity. I'd like to do that. See what, see what we can come
up with. What do you think? Maybe I'd love to do a vote on that and get your thoughts. But I'd like
to go deep into that. I really don't know the answer to these questions as if I have the, the
answer. But I am open to either being the case. The one thing I'm not convinced that all of is that
what is written about in the stories of David happened as they're described. Just seems like
really inventive stuff. Lost fan, try this clickbait. Top 10 reasons Bart Ehrman is cooler
than like Mike LaCona. You won't believe number three. Ehrman's stop, Big Bad Bart. Oh my god.
Yeah, that, that is the kind of stuff that gets people's attention, doesn't it? Thank you for the
super chat. And maybe I'll do it sometime. Shannon Q. in the house, I get around that by almost
never posting videos. Shannon, you're smarter than I am. You are. Reconstructed Bible,
are you going to interview Paul Davidson one-on-one? Yes, I am. I love Paul Davidson. If those of you
who don't know, Paul Davidson has a YouTube channel. I'm going to plug him here. I've been
plugging it away in the documentary description, but I can't tell you how awesome this guy is.
He's a great, great guy. He's been helping me in crafting these documentaries. If it weren't for him,
these documentaries wouldn't be as well as they are, just so you know. The inquisitive Bible
reader. Paul Davidson, brilliant. I ran across his work when I was going into the Greek comparisons
to what we're seeing in the biblical text, Old Testament. And he's actually written articles
where he's touched on some of this, but he's also quoted many of the scholars I have. And
let's just say you got to check out his channel. Subscribe. I'm going to copy and paste that in
the chat. But I want to interview with Paul to talk about the crafting of these documentaries,
discuss some of his documentaries, and get more attention. He deserves more subscribers than
this. This is a sin. Blasphemy. 4.2% subscribers. That should be 400,000 subscribers. He is awesome.
Anyway, I hope Paul sees that and knows that I care and I appreciate his help. That's the least I
can do. But please go subscribe to Paul Davidson's YouTube channel. And back to me. Rambling Derek.
Okay, lost fan. Shannon Q. Q. Shanon. Coincidence? Probably, yeah. Lost fan. You're throwing money
at me. Appreciate the love, my friend. Is it Yadin Yadin Yadin Yadin Zedek? What about interviewing
Graham Hancock, the British writer? He has an interesting view on mythology. I actually emailed
him when I first started the channel. I think his stuff is just, overall, he's not as critical as
he should be, in my opinion. And he's doing a lot of stretching. A lot of stretching. When you talk
to specialists in the field, in any of the areas that he is claiming to have this universal idea
for mythology all across the world, a lot of the specialists that specialize in that particular
field, the language, the archaeology and stuff, none of them take these things that he's saying
seriously. None of them. And I'm not saying I wouldn't have a conversation with the guy,
of course. But that's a huge red flag for me, especially when I've seen so much pseudo-academic
stuff out there as well, that, yes, I have my boundaries. I do push the boundaries outside
of consensus, but I also have boundaries of like, hey, I'm not interested in just doing sensational
stuff that I don't think is on the right track or accurate, in my opinion. So yeah, I have those
boundaries as well. That doesn't mean I wouldn't interview the guy, but it would be more to push
him. It would be more to test him on certain things and see if he's actually open to being wrong
about these kind of things, because I know that he goes a little too far. Lost fan. Last one.
Bring on Dr. Dan McClellan for whatever. Yeah, I have had him on several times if you haven't
seen those interviews, but I have bothered Dan. So if you harass Dan and private message him and say,
hey, myth vision, Dan, make it happen, I have asked him, he will vouch that he has told me,
I won't have time till this time. I have booked till this time. I'm definitely interested, but
these things. So I am definitely always wanting to do a follow-up on his divine images, Yahweh's
divine images book, and dive deeper into the materials that he specializes in. Thank you.
Dr. Andy, how far are your guests' opinions or and opinions influenced by subscriber numbers,
response, monetary aspects? Ever thought of doing something more lively like Ruslan?
How far are your guests and opinions influenced by subscriber numbers?
I think you mean respectively monetary aspects.
Um, so as far as guests and opinions, how far am I? I push the boundaries. So like,
it's not influenced in that respect. I'm sure there's always a subtle influence on
you gear your content toward your audience in some ways. There's subconscious stuff going on there,
I'm sure, but I'm really into this stuff. Like I'm a real weirdo. I'm a big nerd.
So when I hear someone say, let me give you an example, Derek, some scholar, Von Wim
Basilius says, Herodotus's nine book history, um, of the Greeks and the Persians going from
creation down to the wars that are happening with Xerxes and King Cyrus and stuff, that that
is actually parallel to the biblical biblical book of the nine books we call primary history of the
Bible. And that the authors of the Bible, or at least the final redactor, were redactors
that compiled this material are inspired by Herodotus's histories. I know that that's a technical,
weird, niche, not popular, not consensus accepted idea. And I love it. And I want to see if it's
the case and I want to highlight the parallels that they bring out and I want to see what you,
the viewers think and have you critically analyze it and come up with your own ideas.
So I think if I understand your question correctly, how far or what you're putting out
there influenced by subscriber numbers and stuff, I think that the subscriber numbers have grown
because of the content doing the documentaries. So there is a sense I need to make a living and
I'm here to provide for my family. But I don't want to sacrifice my own passions and interests and
truths just to get clicks, just to get views. As far as Ruslan goes, I imagine he does the same
thing. He's interested in trying to grow his channel. He's more sensational than I am, I think,
more click baity than I am. And of course, he's passionate about what he thinks is the case as
truth. I totally disagree with him. I couldn't disagree with him more. But I think that's what
he's trying to do. And he even will make a title like eclipse into the world happening tomorrow.
And then, of course, it's not. And then he'll talk to his audience of why these Christians
are faithfully believing that this is prophecies. And we know that we're in the end times, but I
don't think this is the case. I hope I answered your question, Dr. Andy, and I didn't misunderstand it.
Hold on. This face shows up again. Alexander says, hey, bro, when are you going to
disown Richard Carrier? His allegations way worse than Robert Price. Of course, this guy is like
a huge fan of mine over here, just constantly, constantly commenting these things. You love
me. Don't lie. You know you love me. Just blow me kisses. Let's see what we have in the hizzy.
Scrolling to the next one. Mormon, no more Mormon or no Mormon. Thanks for the response. I hope you
don't get the wrong idea. We critique apologetics. We just don't do theology. He has any plans for
more Litwa content. So I'm glad to hear that. I am not hopefully, I mean, obviously, when you start
seeing negative stuff, you can't help but be negative in response or at least feel like, okay,
what's going on? Everybody teaming up on me and giving all these critical things. And I haven't
seen the page like what you do and how many different pages there are out there that critique
apologetics. I just know that it's happened to Dennis McDonald and others. As far as Litwa,
I'd love to do more interviews with Dr. Litwa. But Litwa charges money to come on, to do these
interviews and stuff. And that's like, I'd have to pay him to have him come on to do the show.
And if I find a particular topic that I think is worthy of making that happen, or if I decided to
put some GoFundMe together to make it possible, then sure. But we used to have free interviews
together. And then at some point, he drew the line and decided he was going to charge to do
interviews. I'd love to say, hey, I have 250,000, 225,000 subscribers. We can market your materials
and get you a lot more attention this way. But I don't think that persuades him to want to do
interviews without being paid. That's my take of the situation. I'd love to have him on more.
But I also know that if I don't have to pay and I can do material myself, then I'm not going that
path, especially when I do have a substantially larger audience that I can market and get more
attention to the scholars for their courses, which he does his own courses. It's a marketing tool.
And so if you're a business guy and you know, hey, I could go on this much larger channel for free,
market what I do, promote my stuff, promote my books, promote my courses and make more money,
maybe they'll consider that. But I'm not paying out of my own pocket to do interviews right now.
I don't have any interest in doing that. Thank you for the super chat, though.
Dude, desi07, shite, pronounced shake. Okay, shake here. What are your thoughts on in times hysteria?
I think it's I've been there. I know what it's like to believe that the end is soon and you're
terribly horrified with what tomorrow might bring and hoping that you're right with God
and all that kind of stuff. I just think it's completely delusional, though, in the mind. I
really do. I think it's a complete delusion, but a delusion that I think is brought up due to
whatever panic is in the situation that people are in. I think Jonathan Z Smith talks about
how a lot of apocalypticism, specifically this Armageddon kind of idea into the world stuff
that we see in Daniel or the Book of Revelation and others, that this stuff arose
because the people were in a situation that they couldn't control. And so I get that, but
it's how do I put it? I always try to come to this analogy. It's a horrible one. I don't know
why, but I think it's because it's so traumatic. You know, the younger girls that have been caught,
went missing, and they've been captured by some grown man and locked in their basement for 10 years
and literally are popping out babies for this abuser and this horrific dude who, in my opinion,
should just be put to death. I mean, it pisses me off to even think about what they did to these
poor innocent girls who lost their lives for a decade in a basement being abused by these men.
Well, what do they do psychologically when they're in this helpless state?
How do they live on? How do they cope? And I feel like that delusion that they invent for
themselves that helps them keep wanting to survive and live is tied into in times apocalyptic hysteria
in some way. But the people who are typically in this hysteria are not as less fortunate as these
girls who are in these abusive, traumatic, life-ending kind of predicaments. And so
it comes from that, I think. There's some human need and want and desire to try and rationalize
what's going on. And so they hope, well, God can't sit back. The righteous judge of the earth
cannot sit back and watch this evil continue. It has to be dealt with and it will be dealt with.
Well, that's why we get into wars, like one right now in the Middle East. Not us necessarily,
but it could happen. Shannon Q, I want Derek to come host the line with me someday soon and take
calls. I'd love to do that with you, Shannon. Seriously, I would love to do that. I would
absolutely accept that invitation. The Stacey's Mom podcast, Shannon, yes, he needs to be on the
line for sure. I would love that. James Happerson says, I love that idea, Shannon Q,
MythVision podcast. Shannon can make a lot of things happen. Well, let's make it happen. We'll
message off air. Okay. Oh, good one. Mr. Smith said, mind shift collab. I'd love it. I love
mind shift. I think he's a wonderful guy. And we have a lot in common in our past and what we're
trying to do and educate people. And, you know, I'd love to do that. I think that makes a great
crossover. Scrolling down, scrolling down, scrolling down, scrolling down. Here we are.
Michael Apple was King Arthur, Myth, Legend. How about Lysergis? I think it's Lysergis.
I don't know about Lysergis. And I have not studied the King Arthur myth, King Arthur,
myth, legend, extensively. I don't know if there was a guy. I tend to lean there wasn't in that
case as far as I've been told. And that is total ignorance from my part. So I have never investigated
this specific example in any depth. But we will need to at some point, won't we? I think we will.
Yeah.
Ali says, is that Shin and Q from the Matt Dilla Humpty show? Holy shit. Yes, it is. Yes, it is.
I had, I had to say like that. Forgive me. I had to do it.
Dude, Desi. Oh, seven. What are your thoughts on the Sampson and Delilah story? Have you ever seen
the 1949 film based upon that story with Eddie Lamar? Hope I said that heady, heady.
I have not seen the film, but I have some thoughts about Samson and Delilah. I have some thoughts
about the Samson myth altogether. I think it is a myth that without a doubt is influenced from
some earlier myth, whether it Melkart Gilgamesh, I tend to think Heracles, which might date Samson
a little later, and that Heracles myth influenced Samson in some way. I mean, the first labor Heracles
does is fighting the Nemean lion, and he kills the lion bare-handed, like chokes the lion to death,
or like strangles the lion and kills the lion bare-handed. Samson. The very first thing he ends
up dealing with in like some war-like combat-like situation is killing a lion bare-handed. And I
did this parallel thing in a documentary that I did on Samson, the myth of Samson and Heracles.
There are so many examples that come up that you can give to show what's going on, but I think it's
an interesting story. I love the Samson story. Personally, it's such a tragedy. There's a
article by Jair Zokovic that you should read. Samson's birth narrative is one of the most unique
odd pagan quotation marks, of course. I don't mean it in the derogatory sense, but
you'll notice the Bible authors in the Hebrew Bible try to, when they describe the births of these
heroes of the faith or genealogical Abrahamic descendants and stuff, you'll notice like Sarah
can't give birth. She can't give birth. It says that Yahweh opens her bosom and then she gives birth,
or whatever. So Jair Zokovic goes and starts to discover something interesting where it looks like
in the Hebrew, the language of Yahweh and Eve. Eve gives birth to what looks like Yahweh's child.
I mean, it could be understood or sounds like there could be some sense in which one of the
children of Eve is Yahweh's and maybe the other one is Adam's. But there's an idea that Yahweh is the
one impregnating these women and the angel of the Lord oftentimes is a stand-in for Yahweh himself.
He meets Samson's mother. Sad part about the Bible story with Samson is his mother's never named,
but the dad is named and she comes back and says, listen, the angel of the Lord visited me and said,
I'm going to have a child and blah, blah, blah, blah, he'll be a Nazarite. So he says, next time
you're in the field, come get me and I'll come out there and I want to hear what this angel of
the Lord has to say. Well, she comes and gets him after she asks the angel of the Lord, don't move,
I need to get my husband to come over here because he said to come get you or come get him whenever
you come back. He comes, he says, all right, I need to know the dad, the husband says,
what did you tell my wife? Tell me exactly what you told my wife and the angels of the Lord said,
I don't have to tell you anything. I'm not telling you anything. Well, tell me your name,
it's not for you to know. He refuses to help the husband overcome some problem the husband's
having in this situation and they just ends up having this crazy ascension and they're like,
oh my God, there's a God, are we alive pinching their skin? Well, Josephus comments on this later
on and when Josephus comments on this, he consents in reading this that the husband is jealous as
hell. And it's almost like a scandal that the angel of the Lord impregnated his wife.
Well, we have these really wild passages in the law where it talks about a woman who gets
raped in the field by someone or ends up having sex in the field. And Yaroslavovich connects
these ideas and says there's some odd birth narrative for Samson where she's in this field
and is getting him impregnated by the angel of the Lord. It's just this really wild story. And I
love it. I nerded out for a while there. Lost fan, you say polemic a lot. Did Derek of 15 years ago
use this word or is this a new thing? Also, it makes me think of polenta type of food. Google it.
I'm using the word polemic because I've noticed it has been being used today. So it's probably
fresh on my mind from the Reddit page, polemic. And then I've heard it from other people as well.
So that's probably why I don't often use that word, to be honest with you. Thank you for the
super chat. I'll have to look up the food. All right. I need to go into the other side because
there's so many comments. I need to make sure that I'm... Oh, okay. There's one more. Where do the
ancient Israelites come from according to secular history? So according to secular critical scholarship,
there have been several hypotheses by academics, but the going consensus is that they were people
within the land, maybe some from outside of Canaan. They were Canaanites within the land
who ended up forming their own tribal unity of Israel. And that this, technically, Israelites
were Canaanites. In the simplest of terms, Israelites were Canaanites and maybe some outsiders
brought ideas in, but this is typically what the consensus is. And William Deaver and several of
the other Israel, Fickleston and others, they clashed their ideas, but they came to a pretty
strong consensus that they were Canaanites and within Canaan ended up having this tribal formation
and uniting over certain ideas in their tribal community that ended up making them identifiable
as Israelites. And then you have Judahites that spawn later, it seems, at some point out of this
that is related to Israel and the Canaanite Pantheon of El, Ashura, Baal, the whole nine.
So there's this interesting evolution. If we had a video camera and we could just play it,
I'd love to see what that looked like, exactly. But that's what the going consensus is according to
them. Thank you. I think I caught up. I think. Okay, I think. No, I didn't catch up. Jesus tells,
Jesus of Nazareth is an update of Jesus Dunn, Jesus Jehozarak and Elishua. It's like Spiderman
being based on Spiderman. It is myth. I mean, I tend to not go that route necessarily. Jesus
is a title as well as a name. It could be used as a title. And I do think that that's how it's
being used in Matthew. It talks about for he the angel tells Mary or Joseph that for your son
shall be named Jesus or Joshua, for he shall save his people from their sins. The name kind of tells
you what he will do. And so that sounds like a title. But there were many, many people named Jesus.
And Paul earlier than these Gospels is talking about a man named Jesus. So I don't go the full
blown mythology route, though it could be. I just I'm not persuaded that it's the most convincing.
And yeah, that's just years of listening to different ideas. And my mind always
moves with what makes the most sense in my head. And this might make the most sense to you, but I
tend to think you got this is just my assessment, you got Rome that is well known for crucifying
Jews, like it's all throughout the literature, Philo, Josephus, crucified Jews and the rebellions
that were rising up there to put those down. Jesus sounds a bit rebellious in the Gospels,
at least an undertone of some kind of revolutionary that is politically standing against the cultural
elite within the Jewish communities. If he actually went into a temple like what we see of Judas
the Galilean, cleansing the temple, if Jesus did anything like that, that is like, that's like
going into that's like, what was it, October, not October, but the
the Capitol building, like invading on the Capitol building or something like you do
with some serious political jab there, you're going to get your ass killed. And you're going to get
crucified. It doesn't take too much for me to think there's something there. And they made
a hell of a story out of it. My thoughts. JC, thank you for the super chat. Why is a crocus in the
crucis? I don't know. Is this, I don't know. Is this for me? You're tagging someone else. Let me
see if there's something I'm missing here. The name is Renez.
I don't see where it is.
I don't know where this person you're commenting that is. I'm blind.
Thank you, JC, for the $2. I'm sorry. I don't know what you're getting at. Teresa W, I was
just wondering if you don't mind how do you present religion to your kids? Thanks,
MythVision, it has changed my life. I don't really get too much into religion with the kids. I also
don't try to block them from being able to make their own minds up on things. But if a topic comes
up and it rarely does about something, it typically is mythology. And I'll bring that up with my kids
and stuff and talk about the Greek gods or talk about different things because their schools
bring it up. As far as Jesus goes, I think they've overheard me talk enough about it that they probably
don't share those conversations often with me because they don't engage or encounter a lot
of religious stuff like I do. This is me being down here in the basement. We don't talk about
what I do for work or these things often. And when we do, it's usually me and my wife because
she works with me and helps me do everything that we're doing. So that is pretty much the
conversation goes to that extent with the kids. If they bring it up, they know where daddy is.
They know what daddy thinks. They know I don't believe. They know my reasoning. I've said it.
And I think a couple of my kids also don't buy it, but I don't close off. I don't tell them
that they can't think there's something out there. If they believe in a God or whatever,
it wouldn't bother me. I just really, really do think there's good reason to think this
God of the Bible isn't real. And I think that for so many reasons, there's just so,
so many reasons that even the God that is presented today, they are having to do theology,
which that God does not match the actual God that is in these texts. And that is the huge red flag
to me that the God in these texts is completely whitewashed to match their philosophy, Plato's
ideas and the evolution of Plato in their philosophical thought. This God is not that God.
They'll find, you know, verses that they might highlight go, oh, that matches what I think about
my God. But overall, I'm pretty convinced at this point. Matthew K, Myth, Fish and Podcast,
Derek, I think I caught up less than one second after saying that. Jesus tells Super Chat comes in,
much, much love, my friend. Thank you, thank you. I just want to highlight that. Oh, the Church of
Mary Magdalene at Renez Le Chateau? I don't know. I don't have any clue. I have to go back to your
previous Super Chat to get an idea. Why is a crocus in the cruces? I don't know. I have no clue.
Oh, you said again in this one, the reverent of the star of David is the crocus.
I don't know. I really don't. That'd be an interesting question to ask someone who may know
that particular place and what that iconography stands in for. Like, what does it mean? What's
the symbol represent? Is there any way an expert can tell us? Jesus tells us, back again, Jesus none
hung the king of Jerusalem on a tree, took him down an evening, put him in a cave and rolled
large rocks in front of that cave. So is this in the book of Joshua you're talking about?
And I thought it was five kings, but can you give me a source? Can you comment the source that you're
getting at? I'll be happy to look it up and check it out later. All right, let me get the...
Pedro, thank you for the super chat. Hi from Brazil. I'm starting this idea to present
Mythesis from US in Brazil. Dr. Carrier will talk to us on the 18th. It'll be cool to have you two.
The 18th. I don't know the 18th of this month. I doubt I'll have the time. What is it? Oh, that's
way too early. Pedro, I'm sorry. I'd have to plan out the talk and then, like, it'd have to be planned
out in advance. There's no way I'd be able to make something like that happen that soon. But I'd love
to have the conversation. But if you didn't mind me popping in my own personal ideas and thoughts,
I'd love that. As long as you didn't mind me bringing my two cents to the table. But me and Carrier,
we get along well and we would work fine on an episode if you ever wanted to have us together.
Ryan Penny, thank you for the super chat. Would you say you're mostly trying to just show
as many alternative explanations as possible which the church suppresses?
A good question. Really good question. And thank you for the super chat.
I'm not saying I'm trying to give as many alternative explanations because there's
probably several I never get around to. But I would say I'm trying to give many, not as many,
many alternative explanations that I don't think get, first of all, they don't get revealed or
even highlighted by the church in general at all, but also don't get airtime in the typical
consensus of academics in the fields. Like, these are academics that I'm highlighting.
They're not academics. They're not like PhDs. They're PhDs. Like, these are people who are
really, really smart people. They just aren't in the groove of the most popular ideas that are being
circulated by the typical scholars in the field. And so that is one of the things that I really
like to do. And the reason is I think they have aspects of their work that ring true in some way.
Whether they're completely true, doesn't matter. For example, if someone makes a case,
let's say the one I talked about, Herodotus and the Old Testament primary history,
and they say, I think there's a genetic connection. They could be wrong about the genetic connection.
And it could still be connected with almost like a middle ground that they're influenced by another
source that they have in common or some other explanation could make sense why their literary
aspects look so similar. And it doesn't necessarily have to be genetic. I still want to interview.
I still want to talk about those things, because none of the scholars in the field that I am
interviewing or that I'm aware of in the scholarship are talking about these things. That's why.
So the other thing is, is I also think it's far more plausible, the things that I'm presenting,
than what the Christian belief system is trying to sell you. Jesus rose from the dead. If you don't
believe, you're going to be eternally damned. This kind of idea is nonsense to me. And so
what's more probable for why the empty tomb is empty? Because a guy really rose from the dead.
Well, that's what they want you to believe. What's more probable for a guy, Jewish guy in
the first century floating up into a cloud? Because he actually floated up into a cloud.
It says what it is. That's what's most plausible. No. No, I would say not. And I would argue
there's so many reasons to say that this is legend and go down that path. That's kind of what I'm
trying to do. I hope that answers your question. But like, I want to highlight those things because
I know my good friend, Paula Gia, Shanak Yu, was in the chat. I don't know if she's still around.
But Paula Gia has a naturalist explanation where he's trying to factor in hallucination models
and explain things about 1 Corinthians 15, eyewitness testimony. Well, what about considering
what Richard C. Miller says about this? Why not take into account that there were many eyewitness
fabricated accounts of Caesars? After they were dead, eyewitnesses came forward swearing they
saw him on a road. That sounds familiar. Two places in the New Testament, you find this
interesting appearance tradition on a road. One, the road to Emmaus with the two disciples or
apostles, whatever you want to call them, with Jesus in disguise appearing to them and they
don't know that it's him. Finally breaks bread and his identities revealed. And then the road to
Damascus with Paul, eyewitnesses on a road sound familiar. Well, that was already going on with
the Caesars and happened with Romulus. So that seems more probable than thinking this one happened.
And those aren't true. These other ones didn't happen or aren't true. Come on. Walks like a duck,
talks like a duck, baby. JC, the crocus is the sign of Jonah. Okay. Well, I would say that why?
Why are you asking me why they would have that in the Church of Mary Magdalene?
Why is a crocus in the Cruces? I probably butchered the name of that. The Church of Mary Magdalene.
Arnais Le Chateau. The reference of the star of David is the crocus. And then you say the
crocus is the sign of Jonah. Well, we see in the New Testament just as Jonah was spit up after
three days and three nights, Jesus in the heart of the earth will resurrect. That Jonah symbol,
I also think, leads to a Gentile kind of aspect. Because if you read the book of Jonah,
Jonah's not going to Israelites. He's going to non-Israelites. He's going to
Ninevites. He's going to people who are not Jews. And so this becomes a symbol, I think,
of early Christianity for Paul, for the Acts, for the Gospels, not only for the sign of a miracle
of three days and three nights that we see in the Jonah narrative, but also on what its pragmatic
applicability in this visual is of going to non-Jews. And that's why if you look in Acts,
that strange place where Paul's converted, and then next thing you know, Peter has this vision of
these unclean animals. And then God says, these are clean animals. I wrote this in my article,
The Minimal Doubts. The minimal doubts, something like that, minimal doubts. It's on academia. I
wrote the article. In there, you find right after that vision, or during that time in Acts 9 and 10,
when Paul converts, there's this shift toward the Gentile audience, these unclean Gentiles,
and them being clean, and the place that he goes to. It's like, it's like another Jonah story.
So Jonah is like a huge example in the early church for not only resurrection after three
days and three nights in that motif, but going to the non-Jew, which is driven home.
I think that would maybe play a significant part. I don't know why it appears in the Church of Mary
Magdalene. When that church was built, I don't have a clue about any of that. But I tried to
take a jab, JC, because you spent super chats, and I wanted to give you my personal guess,
but I'd love to talk to an expert in that. JC, again, Judas the Galilean, you interviewed
Unterbrink. I found compelling his book, Linking Gospel Jesus, as a timeshift fictionalized Judas.
I don't think it necessarily has to be that complicated. I think Jews were doing this.
Josephus talks about Judas the Galilean doing this at the turn of the century around Herod,
the great. So this is before we get into time. Jesus crucified in the 30s. We're talking
6 BCE, 4 BCE. In this time period, Judas the Galilean is said to have cleansed the temple.
Who's to say that another Jew is not also making this attempt? I mean, several messianic figures
are doing crazy things, believing God is going to come and intervene and destroy the enemy,
the whole nine, the apocalyptic ideas. And so I don't necessarily draw that you have to connect
it to another character in order to make it make sense. If you wanted to make sense of it saying
I'm a mythicist and I don't want Jesus, where I want to find examples that I can just say,
well, why does this look like a historical situation? They just found this example from Judas
the Galilean and invented it about Jesus. You could. Or you could say, here's another fanatical,
apocalyptic creature, charismatic, who gets himself killed. And I tend to think that
it's possible though. It is possible. How many academics ignored the idea of a connection between
there are three people on the cross and Mark and the three people in the biography of Josephus,
where he has two of them taken down or two of them die and one survives. I can't remember exactly
how it went, but this gets mentioned from Joseph Atwell. And of course, not many scholars that I
know of think Mark is using Josephus biography to describe an event over here and Mark and they're
just lifting it and using it. Not many do. But there are some who are open to the idea that at
least there's some literary inspiration there. I don't know what's the case. Tina, I think Jesus
was an observant Jew, a messianic preacher, and he thought the end was coming soon. The Romans killed
him, not the Jews. Could be. Could be. I think that too. I think the Romans did kill him, but I
wouldn't say it's just because Jews weren't somehow part of it. It could be that it was purely the
Romans. It could be that there was a participation of both taking place. Romans are going to kill
anyone who's a political insurrectionist, especially if you're in a public place, potentially doing
what gospels are describing and whipping and turning over money tables. You're asking to get killed,
especially in fervor, like the fervor of the holy days. You're dealing with a time when national
identity and exodus from Egypt and this idea of being freed and having us as a nation rule the
world as the prophecies foretell and things like that. There's a good chance you're going to have
yourself killed from doing something like that. I meant other day a conversation with just you.
Pedro, feel free to email me. I am totally open for conversations. Let me do this. Give you my email.
There you go. I just posted my email in the chat. Feel free to email me if you want to set up
something and I can look at my schedule. Make sure the queen is good with it first.
Jesus tells, much love, Derek. Elishua means El saves. He fed multitudes, raised a dead child,
split the Jordan, killed the blind man, and a man with leprosy, Old Testament Jesuses.
Thank you for the super chat. Can you give me the sources for this exact point you're giving me?
I'm curious to look at those examples myself. Thank you so much for the super chat, though.
I have heard, for those who are curious, a parallel potentially to Joshua, the book of Joshua,
and what's going on with five kings that were in a cave and they get crucified, something to
this effect. They're killed. They're hung on trees. I don't know if they were hung upside down. I can't
remember, but that some scholars have looked for a midrash kind of thing from what's going on in
Joshua to Jesus, and I know that Allison mentions this in his book, Delcy Allison, Jr., on resurrection.
JC, look at the pillar capitals of the second temple. I will have to find the pillar
capitals of the second temple. I have no way of, is it like something you can look at now?
What am I looking at? I'm pulling it up. Is this it? Second temple?
Or is there supposed to be like a symbol on it or something?
Is this it? Oh, that's Roman period. Nope. I need the Jewish
porch on the temple mount. I don't know what we're looking at, brother.
Let me see what the next super chat is. I'm sorry, JC. Do the individual gods themselves
actually teach anything to their followers, like commandments or rules to follow? Not for long.
Thanks for the super chat. The individual gods themselves actually teach anything to their
followers. I mean, according to the text, yes. According to these narrations, Yahweh oftentimes
is teaching specific things to the person in the story. Usually the way I would take it is for the
reader, and usually you would just take that as, from my perspective, the author has their particular
perception of their cultists and their God is a reflection of what they want or what they're
perceiving their God to want. So that's pretty much when I would say the gods themselves actually
teach anything to their followers. That's what I would say. As far as in reality, no. I do not
think there's any God teaching anyone any of these things. In actual reality, I think the humans are
constructing these things. JC, see the proto, alec, capitals, and Phoenician trees of life.
Second temple column. I'm coming back to this. I think this, it wouldn't shock me. That wouldn't
shock me a bit, JC, especially with the constant tree of life, tree of knowledge of good and evil,
tree material. Enoch talks about the tree of knowledge, and I'm talking about second temple
literature. This stuff goes way back into ancient Mesopotamia with the trees and gardens and all
of that stuff. So it would not shock me one bit if that played some impact on the, how they have
this visually. All right. I got a few more here, and then I'm going to go get some lunch. Holy
humanist Nuria Khan. Good to see you here, Nuria. Thank you for being here. Thanks for everything
you do at MythVision. Thank you, Nuria. Appreciate the support, the super chat, and being an ex-Muslim
female who's speaking out, trying to get more people to become humanists in that sense,
getting away from the shackles of dogma and open-mindedness, searching with freedom. There's
so much change that can be done in the world, and I'm hoping more people like you rise up and speak
with their voices powerful. Subscribe to our YouTube channel if you haven't. Thank you.
Sid Dave. Romans killed a lot of Jewish Messianic preachers. Nothing special about Jesus. What I
find funny is when the Gospels say that Pontius Pilate's wife had dreams of Jesus, how do they
know about her dreams? This is a good, this is a good one. Like, what will the Apologists
hypothetically say? Well, Pilate, his wife was secretly a Christian, and so she was in the
communities with the, I'm just making up something here that I'm probably sure they would think
something like this. She was in communication with Christians, and, you know, because of this
experience, she had converted to Jesus, and she's sharing this with the rest of the community,
and that's how they found out about the story. Or someone spoke to her who relayed the message,
like the story can go on and on. They could just be fanciful and say, the Archangel Gabriel,
who also told Mary that she's going to be born and conceive a son of God, and appear to Joseph,
also gave this dream to her, and then also appears to the church at some point in a
visionary experience or in dreams and tells them the story about Pontius Pilate's wife.
Anything can go. Anything can go when you want this stuff to add up. The simplest explanation to
me, and I'm sure Sid, you might understand, is this is a literary ordeal. When you want to craft
a story as an omniscient author who knows things that people shouldn't know in the story,
that makes the most sense, and you can find this in all sorts of literature in the ancient world.
The omniscient author who knows stuff they shouldn't know and is writing materials about
things that no one was there to account for, except for the guy who dies in a few hours.
How did they know this material? It's more likely that it's literary rather than literal,
and didn't actually happen. My opinion, of course, so many of those, aren't there?
I really appreciate everybody. I'm going to go get some food. I'm not sure what I'm going to eat.
I'm going to make sure that whatever it is that the Queen of Mythvision is happy with eating it,
and then I will accommodate, because she's been kicking butt trying to do our taxes
or working our butt off. I'm literally getting off of here working on a documentary on the
Epic of Gilgamesh. I've got the script thanks to Joshua Bowen, a wonderful PhD academic,
a seriologist, Hebrew Bible scholar as well, for helping craft the Gilgamesh script,
and I'm also going to add in my own little tweaks at the end of the Epic
to kind of give you some interesting parallels I find with the Garden of Eden,
the Serpent, right? We talked about that stuff that's in there, and some interesting
homoerotic material in Gilgamesh with him and Inkydo that the similar language is used for David
and Jonathan in the Bible. Ooh, let's get into trouble, right? I hope everybody can understand
my struggles, my struggles of trying to be a decent human and to try and show that I care
about everybody, including those that I'm constantly frustrated and arguing against
in the apologetic arena, but also that I wanted to explain myself and where I'm coming from,
what I'm trying to do with my channel, and that it's not just a consensus channel that
robotically is only going to stick with what everyone agrees upon in the field. I want to
push those boundaries in a critical, secular way, not in a faith-based way. I'm interested in the
critical. I'm not interested in the abracadabra, and that being said, I love you. Love everybody.
Hope you have a wonderful day, and never forget we are MythVision.
Remember, all I'm offering is the truth. Nothing more.
Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh
Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh.
