Join our Patreon.
Welcome back.
Two mystery schools, Derek.
So what were you talking about, brother?
I have no idea.
I'm just making it up as I go along.
It sounds a little bit, no, I'm just kidding.
So I was touching on the whole concept of genealogy versus analogy.
If something's analogical, for talking about analogical similarities, we're talking about
things that are similar, but not necessarily related or dependent upon one another.
They just have an air of similarity.
If it's genealogical for talking about genealogy, then there may be, we're talking about something
where there's a genetic link where one might have influenced the other.
I think that this can be something of a bifurcation fallacy when we're talking about this stuff.
Because sometimes you have cases in which it's both analogy and genealogy.
Think about a composer who writes music.
He is probably innovating to a good degree, producing something entirely new and unique,
but he cannot think musical thoughts in isolation or in a vacuum.
He is inevitably going to be influenced by things that he has heard before and not from
any one particular song, but from a whole panoply of songs that he's heard before.
That's the kind of process we're talking about.
The reason I bring that up is because I wanted to get into, you know, to basically transition
from the ancient Egyptian mortuary cult into the Greco-Roman mystery religions.
As I was talking about, ancient Egypt appears to have had quite an impact on the Greco-Roman
world.
A lot of mystical and magical practices were adopted by the Greco-Romans because of the
fact that ancient Egypt was this world of great mystique and magic and power and wisdom.
But you begin to see such as with Dionysus, we had talked about the identification of
Dionysus with Osiris and some of the synchronization that was going on there.
There were, of course, the Orphic mysteries of Dionysus.
There were other mysteries of Dionysus as well, but I really want to touch on the Orphic
mysteries because here's where we have another really close analogy to Christianity and to
the ancient Egyptian cult.
The myth was that the Titans had dismembered Dionysus and he was restored, you know, reassembled
and restored to life variously by Rhea or Demeter and he lived again.
The Orphics believed that they too could be reborn evidently in the image of Dionysus
or the Orphic Dionysus according to golden tablets that are found.
From dating back to the fourth or fifth centuries BC, they talk about the initiate being reborn
on this very day, thrice-blast.
He, they're thrice-blast as Dionysus was thrice-born, thrice-blast or thrice-happy.
Again you see the parallelism between the devotee and the god, that the devotee is undergone
what the god himself underwent, that there is this mystical identification.
They too underwent a process of theosis becoming divine or immortal to be able to live on in
the next life and look forward to not just the doom and gloom of Hades as some warn but
to a blessed and happy afterlife.
And there is this tie-in and one cannot one cannot unsee the sort of parallel there between
the Orphic cult of Dionysus where he's dismembered, reassembled, raised to life and his devotees
therefore share in that fortunate lot and you know in a happy afterlife and become divinized
themselves much as what you find in the ancient Egyptian cult.
There does seem to be some kind of very possibly a genetic link there.
I think I had mentioned to you last night too there is a motif of falling into milk
that had something to do with the whole notion of rebirth, immortality and the Orphic cult.
Milk was identified with the Milky Way, that's not a coincidence.
Baptism.
Yeah, absolutely, the ancient Egyptians saw the Milky Way into them in some sense.
I don't think they realized that it was a massive grouping of stars but that it was
this celestial kind of magical event or domain in the sky so by falling into milk you were
falling into that domain and being reborn as a God in the sky, in the heavens.
This I have to comment, this is great because you literally tie-in John Knight-Lunwall mentioned
in the first part.
He talked about the flood of Noah.
I've never heard of those scholars that have come on and talked about this but there's
a theme in the Epic of Gogamesh where it's in Noah as well and the idea that there's
salvation or eternal life in this judgment narrative of water and most scholars scratch
their head and go, how does the judgment and water bring salvation?
What is this judgment of water?
How is that even going to bring salvation?
John Knight-Lunwall thinks if I'm not mistaken this is not verbatim but something to this
aspect that the flood is not talking about some local Mediterranean flood here.
This don't get me wrong, you could take it that way and find that there were previous
floods.
Are you there?
Derek!
You got stuck on me, man.
You there?
Yes, I'm here.
Okay, you froze for a good while.
Yeah, sorry about that.
No, Satan's trying to, I get it, you know, sorry, just get behind me.
So what I was saying, no, you glitched out but John Knight-Lunwall was saying that the
flood, though it could have had plenty of floods happen locally in the world, you know,
he believes it's celestial and that there's a key here in which most scholars can't understand
how eternal salvation or salvation like that in the flood play a role.
Most people would say salvation from the flood is just simply literal salvation from the
dangers of water and that's it.
He believes there's like a mystery cult scenario here in the mysteries of this religion.
It's found in the Epic of Gilgamesh, too, where I think, and I'm not certain, he swims
down to get something, something of youth or something in the Epic of Gilgamesh and
beneath the waters, you know, as you go down and get it and he acquires this thing they
didn't think he could.
There's something with waters, flood and salvation here and he thinks Milky Way is playing a
huge part in the Noah story.
Interesting.
That I hadn't heard.
Yeah.
Something else that I came across I was reading just before we got in contact.
I was looking again at SGF Brandon's discussion about the parallels between the ancient Egyptian
mortuary cult concerning Osiris and the Pauline form of Christianity.
He did discuss these baptism type of practices even as far back as in the ancient Egyptian
cult where they were washed or purified in lustrations of water.
You know, who to thank, but even that goes way back.
That brings up another point where, you know, you'll see some apologists try to say, look,
you cannot appeal to rituals like baptism or communal meals and suggest that that's
borrowed from the mystery religions because those were already Jewish rituals.
Those were already aspects of Judaism.
Well, even if you want to argue that, and I'd say given some of these examples, particularly
what Brandon touches on concerning baptisms in ancient Egypt, I don't know that that's
necessarily the case, but let me just go ahead and grant you that.
What Jewish scholars are very astute at picking up on is that, yeah, these may have been Jewish
or, you know, rituals originally, but the significance that is attached to them now in
the New Testament under Paul is entirely different.
It's taken on a new mystical significance that it did not have before.
There's this new mystical connotation that's being applied here.
So whereas the Jewish ritual of baptism might have been about purification, well, let's
just get right to the point here.
This is where I eventually wanted to get to, and I'm going to quote from Paul here, Romans
chapter six, verses three through five, or don't you know that all of us who were baptized
into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death.
We were therefore buried with him through baptism into death in order that just as Christ
was raised from the dead through the glory of the Father, we too may live a new life.
For if we have been united with him in a death like his, we will certainly also be united
with him in a resurrection like his.
Here you see this sort of mystical identification with Christ and the parallel interaction of
death and rebirth or new life between the devotee and the deity.
Colossians chapter two, verse 12, having been buried with him in baptism in which you were
also raised with him through your faith in the working of God who raised him from the
dead.
And then Philippians chapter three, verses 10 through 11, I want to know Christ, yes,
to know the power of his resurrection and participation in his sufferings, becoming
like him in his death and so somehow attaining to the resurrection from the dead.
Here baptism in Paul takes on a new meaning and significance, one that very closely aligns
to the mystery religions.
So even if it was exoterically a Jewish ritual originally, it is now esoterically a mystery
religion type ritual, a Greco-Judaic hybrid, so to speak.
I couldn't attest to that, even with something that's a non-mystery school necessarily, even
though I wouldn't, it wouldn't surprise me if it was.
Here in 1 Corinthians 9, I had Rabbi Tobias Singer come on talk about how Paul quotes
somewhere in Deuteronomy, and when he does, he reinterprets what it means.
He literally quotes it when he's arguing with these Corinthians saying, listen, is
it just me and Barnabas, the only two who can't marry or have a job, something to this
effect, pretty much what he's trying to get at when he goes and he quotes this, and Deuteronomy
God says to the Israelites, listen, you can't muzzle your oxen while treads.
It's supposed to be able to eat.
You're supposed to let the oxen eat.
Don't starve it while it's trying to make food for you.
That's pretty much what it says in Deuteronomy.
And you notice this often in the Enochian literature, Enoch.
They do this kind of mystery school stuff because what they do is they tell you, oh,
eating of a pig, it's not literally meaning eating a pig.
What it's saying is don't be like the pig, and what the pig does is this.
And so like it reinterprets what the Deuteronomic or the Levitical or the Exodus law says, and
Paul requotes it and says, does God care about oxen?
This is what he says in 1 Corinthians 9.
It's like putting a new span on all of this stuff.
Yeah.
Does God care about oxen?
No.
That's syncretism right there.
You're binding the old with the new, and you're adopting it and adapting it and spinning it
on the new light.
So if you say, apologists who say, no, this stuff, they don't know what they're talking
about.
I'm sorry.
No, I'm not.
What us, as far as the mystery religions go, you had the mysteries of Eleusis, the Eleusinian
mysteries.
This involved the abduction or rape of Persephone or core, as she was known, into the underworld
by Hades, and then her returning to the land of living.
So more of a catabasis than strictly a death and resurrection, so to speak, but it's still
something along the lines of representing death and rebirth that was tied into the death
and rebirth of the crops, and Demeter mourned and beweld the loss of Persephone, just as
Isis did for Osiris or Noth for Bell.
And in these mysteries, again, we don't get a whole lot of insight into what took place
during these rituals, but we know that they were shown like an ear of wheat, so to speak,
but there was some tie in the death of the planted seed, probably, and it's rebirth to
new life, so that the initiate was probably impressed with the notion that just like the
crops die and rise to new life, just as Persephone or core had to go into the underworld of death
and reemerge alive again, so to show you had the same fate.
And we know from these ancient texts like Pindar and Sophocles that the participants
in the Mysteries of Elusus hoped for a better afterlife and to avoid the pains of death
and of hell.
That brings me to another point I want to touch on, that another way that apologists
will try to drive the wedge is by saying, well, the mystery religion participants would
go on to live a happy afterlife in heaven, whereas Jews and Christians hoped to have
a temporal existence in a new body here on earth.
That's where they'll try to drive the wedge.
Again, they are ignoring passages in the New Testament where you still have the idea of
heavenly assets, such as in 1 Thessalonians 4, where you have, he doesn't call it the
rapture, but that's the concept that's alive there.
Christ will return, those who have died in Christ will be raised to be with him in the
air.
They'll be taken first, and then the rest of us who are still alive will go up to be
in the air with him.
And then as we were talking about with Dr. Price when I interviewed him, and I think
it was John chapter 14, where Christ says, you know, I'll be gone, but I'll be returning
from heaven, and I'll be taking you guys up with me.
You're going to be coming with me.
This idea of spiritual assent, or even if it was in the new body, still going to another
celestial spear or realm is alive in the New Testament as well, precisely because Christianity
was not a monolith any more than any of these other ancient religions were.
There were variant views of the afterlife, what kind of body you'd have or where you
would end up being located.
So that view is alive in the New Testament as well.
And I don't think you can legitimately drive that wedge without just completely ignoring
what's in your own sheriff's holy book.
I don't get it.
Yeah.
And I could see issues you could try and like find contradictions like Revelation talks
about the kingdom, the New Jerusalem coming down out of heaven.
Right.
And then first, Thessalonians is talking about you going up and it's like, OK, Acts talks
about he's ascending, but then his return is also supposed to be another descent in
the same manner in which I left.
I will return.
Well, has that happened?
You know, so does he mean literal, literal?
I it's it's complicated because if that's an apathiosis of his ascension, then, you know,
this might be mystery school language where we're not really able to grasp the concept
in Christians and literalize it, of course.
And then here you go, finding ways to try and make things make sense.
The best they can or fit their doctrine or whatever.
Yeah.
Anyway.
Yeah, I mean, they try to harmonize because they just assume that all of this is cohesive
and it's not.
And even if you want to say that that Jewish idea of resurrection is retained in the New
Testament, it doesn't change the fact that the the mysticism of the mystery religions
remains so that, you know, even if they achieve the afterlife for immortality in a body versus
the soul in the heavens, it's still the same means to get there.
It's it's it's again, it's it's it is a Greco-Judaic hybrid or assimilation.
They're combining, synchronizing, fusing various beliefs and ideas and practices so
that you'll have both similarities and differences.
So appealing to the differences just doesn't work.
Yeah.
What else?
We talked about the illusiony and mysteries.
The Greco-Roman mysteries of Isosthenes Cyrus.
So of course, there was a Greco-Roman version of the ancient Egyptian mystery religion.
And in this one, we do get a pretty close look at what's going on here in terms of the
ritual and its meaning in Apolaus's account in Metamorphoses or the Golden
Mass in book 11.
And he talks about for the initiate for Lucian, it was a process of of death and
rebirth that he he approaches the frontiers of death and having been born
through the elements.
He is reborn and he's renewed, set once more upon the course of renewed life very
much like the way Paul talks about walking in newness of life.
So we do get a real close glimpse at a mystery element there in Apolaus.
Again, they might say, well, yeah, but this is from the second century CE.
Well, read J.
Gwen Griffiths.
He was the renowned scholar concerning the Egyptian religion, Isosthenes Cyrus.
He discusses Apolaus's account and talks about how it is very much in continuity
with the ancient Egyptian cult of Osiris.
And even though it doesn't explicitly say that Apolaus doesn't say that
Lucian is identified with Osiris here, Griffiths makes the case that that is
precisely what is going on.
He is now once reborn in the bosom of mysteries.
He is wearing the crown of justification and has the accoutrements of a solar
deity, which is very much the assimilation of Osiris and Rey.
You know, this has been such a long standing tradition in the ancient
Egyptian religion that there's no denying that that's still what's going on
here, even in the Greco-Roman Egyptian cult, so that by now, whereas in the
Egyptian cult, one was identified with Osiris in death, in literal death, and
then raised to immortality in a new life.
Now, it's happening in the here and now, once initiated, now you're reborn
already in this life, but you still have to look forward to the culmination of
that upon death, just as what happens in the Pauline form of baptism.
And I seriously doubt that Paul had innovated this, or that he was the first.
I think that what we're seeing in Apolaus is something that had already laid
ground.
Yeah, Romans 8 also.
I mean, yes, of course, baptism.
And this was a non-nostic thing as well.
Teachings like the heresies of Hymenaeus and Phyletus that we find, which is just
briefly mentioned, how they led so many astray by saying the resurrection from
the dead has already happened.
And that tells you there's Christian sex right there that believe that there's a
future yet resurrection, and there are others to say the resurrection already
happened.
Well, what does it mean?
And we can't, we don't want to lose our definitions of what these terms mean.
But when I read the Gospel of Thomas, I think I got a clear definition of what
Hymenaeus and Phyletus think, because it's the closest reference.
When I was looking up any reference, there's not another reference that I'm
aware of that connects Hymenaeus and Phyletus and this in the Gospel of
Thomas saying 51 and 113.
And in there, he's talking about, they said, Lord, when will the repose of the
dead take place?
And when will the blah, blah, blah, blah?
Sounds very much like Matthew 24, Luke 21, Mark 13, the whole, when, uh, when
will you, when will these things happen?
It goes, I tell you the truth, the hero of the signs, all that.
Well, Jesus says, look around.
The resurrection's already occurred.
You just can't see it.
Well, this resurrection, I think it's a Gnostic one, which you find clearly as a
heresy in one of the letters, but it's probably a heresy that was taught by
Paul, but then this is where it gets weird.
In Romans eight, you have he who, um, those he justifies, he'll sanctify, pretty
much those who justifies, he and he's going to end up glorifying.
So if you are getting justified, you're going to end up glorified in Paul's
doctrine, and I suspect justified is initiated, uh, which means you're
resurrected, you're crucified with Christ.
You are resurrected with Christ already.
And then you're also guaranteed the afterlife scenario.
So yeah, I'm with you on that.
And justification was a big element there.
We know in the ancient Egyptian cult as well, um, after Horus had defeated
set, uh, that's Osiris's brother who had murdered and dismembered him.
Um, Osiris was found justified, uh, and declared free of sin.
Even Mark J Smith says, uh, so that the, the ancient Egyptian initiate was
also justified, declared free of sin.
And there was also the crown or wreath of justification, which, uh, signified
they're being justified as they, uh, were vindicated and raised as he was.
So, you know, it really begins to blow your mind when you see just how many
different, um, how many different lines of evidence there are and how many
different, the many different varieties and ways of, of, um, of parallelism
between the old and the new.
It's, it's, it's staggering almost.
Um, I was also going to talk about, of course, we discussed the, the imagery,
you know, the death of the planet seed and its sprouting to new life.
That imagery is used in, of course, in Paul and in, uh, and in John.
Um, you know, this is probably not a coincidence.
Yes, they're using that as, uh, sort of a metaphor for what happens to, uh, you
know, the death of the body and its sprouting to new life.
So it was also in the, in the ancient mysteries, which were as, as much
about transformation as they were about deification.
I mean, naturally you were transformed into something divine.
Um, and it's agricultural.
This is the thing that I wish I told Dr.
Bob, I say it all the time.
I'm like, man, while you had William Lane Craig there, you should've really
slammed this one, but he tried to scoot away and disc, discredit agricultural
connections to the Christian myth.
And I've heard others like Christopher Hansen and other guys who, uh, who
want to say, get it, get rid of the agricultural ideas.
So if I bring up parables of the seed, the sewer, or if I bring up the wheat
in the shaft, or I bring up the, the vineyard owner, or if I bring up, you
know, the fig tree out of season, hint, hint, you know, I start talking about
these things, oh, well, you just start, you're not really looking at the, you're
not looking at it through the milieu, or you're not understanding that this,
they're all common farmers that they're teaching this to duh.
Don't you realize, and I'm thinking to myself, wow, what a cop out, because it
does sound very mystery school, agricultural like, and I understand
there's the reluctance to try and give an inch.
Cause some people take a mile and the mile goes past.
If the path is only half a mile long, they will go a mile.
Zeitgeist, okay?
But if you, there should be something there to say, okay, okay, we'll admit,
we'll confess there's something.
I deal with other fundamentalists out there that harmonize everything.
There's not a single New Testament book, and they don't believe that the
canon is sacred or believe that things that we have are inerrant and fallible,
but they treat it with the same methodology of inerrancy and such.
And I'm like, don't you see the conflict in the issue between the
Petrine and the Pauline?
Don't you see they didn't like each other and they taught different doctrines?
Hold on.
Let's try and make it work first before we try to find issues.
What if, what if you're, that's not the scientific method, number one, but
what if it isn't, are you going to make it work?
No matter what, because that's when you come up with stuff like James saying
works by salvation or salvation by works.
And I'll show you my faith by doing my works.
And that's how Abraham was justified.
And then Paul talks about Galatians three justified by faith and not of works.
And then talks about in the pseudo, you know, Ephesus or the Ephesian document
where he's saying, listen, grace to faith, not of works, hand, hand, pop, or
the Roman scenario pop right there against works.
So I say that.
How do you deal with that?
Oh, well, James is talking to different people, probably just Jews.
Therefore the Jews are supposed to keep working.
And that's their version of salvation.
But since Paul's talking to Gentiles, their version of salvation is different.
So they can have grace to faith, not of works.
And therefore James and Paul are buddies.
And it's like, what level?
I mean, you'll find anything.
It's like the loophole in the law for a lawyer, they will find a loophole.
Even if you, the glove doesn't fit though, you must acquit.
It's like, I love, that's perfect.
I was just about to say price compares these to the defense attorneys for OJ
Simpson, because that's exactly what they are.
It's willful ignorance.
It's turning a blind eye to what is obvious to those of us who are approaching
this rationally.
You know, and there are a lot of smart people who very well read, very well
informed, who really know their stuff, but for whatever reason, and I can only
speculate as to what that is, but for whatever reason, they're not looking at
this objectively, they're not doing so rationally.
Before you move on, because I know you have more to bring in, just one quick
comment, I guess, do you think, and this is just your opinion, and this is all
subjective, and you know, nothing wrong with this, do you think that the reason
they're resistant and reluctant to even go down this path is they think this is
going to feed fuel to the fire of anti-religious propaganda and in their
view, technically, regardless, regardless, if you saw a pattern or parallel, we can
explain them away, like I just explained away James and Paul, everybody should
know their best friends.
Didn't you know that?
Didn't you know that?
So what I'm saying is, is do you think it's the anti-religious rhetoric and
they're just sick and sick of seeing people who don't believe it and they just
want to poke holes and they just want to talk about how the book's not true or
this and that, so therefore, we can't feed that side of things.
We got to find somewhere that's less possible in terms of jabbing or saying
Jesus is just like other gods and that, you know, there's not this unique, this
is the special religion.
No, it takes away all that special.
Do you think that they're trying to protect that, even if they don't believe it?
Well, I think it almost goes without saying that if you're trying to
cling to Christianity as a uniquely inspired, divine revelation, it's not
possible to do that when you recognize that it is basically cut from the same
cloth of the ancient world as the rest of these myths and ideas.
That's not to say that it was not unique in its own instantiation of these
kinds of things.
It's being a Greco-Judaic hybrid religion makes it a unique blend of
Judaism with Hellenistic and other exotic faiths, but it's nonetheless, it's
just, you know, it's precisely the type of thing that we would expect to arise
from the ancient world, from its time and place, from the cultural and
sociological factors involved.
And in realizing that, clearly, you realize that there's no, it's superfluous
to appeal to any kind of divine revelation.
It's all too obvious that this is just something that is quite, quite
frankly, man-made and is a product of its time and place, a product of man.
You know, do I have an anti-religious agenda?
Yes and no.
You know, I think that religion does do a lot of harm in this world, especially
among those on the religious right, you know, the politically motivated who are
trying to put in place something of a theocracy until the rest of us that we
have to live according to their rules.
I think that that's harmful and I think it's responsible, only, you know,
responsible of us to keep those folks in check and speak out against that kind
of thing, but there are also a lot of religious and people in this world who I
think are harmless.
I don't side completely with Richard Dawkins or Christopher Hitchens in that I
don't review, I don't view religion or religious people as the enemy necessarily.
There are a lot of religious people in my life, Derek, whom I love and adore and I
wouldn't have them any other way and I'm not trying to pry their faith out of
their hands, absolutely not.
I am defending my non-belief, sure, and I'm taking a genuine interest in these
topics because they genuinely fascinate me, but I'm not out to, in other words,
I'm not an anti-theist, I'm not out to destroy religion, I don't think it's a
better idea to have a world in which there is no religion.
I'm not on that track, I have a problem with a particular stripe of fundamentalist
in across the board as a fundamentalist.
No, I do have a problem with that and I, you know, I won't hesitate to admit that.
At the same time, I'm not going to allow that to pervert
my journey of discovery when it comes to trying to understand the origins
and development of the Christian faith.
If I find out something I've said or written is false or debunked or just doesn't
carry the weight of the evidence, I'll get rid of it, I'll discard it.
You know, I'm trying to arrive at the truth.
So one could arguably say that there might be a bias or agenda on my part,
but I try to, as Nietzsche said, we all view the world through our own subjective lens.
The point is to combat that, to try and rise above it, broaden your horizons,
don't let it get the best of you.
Do your absolute damnedest to approach things as objectively as you possibly can,
even if, you know, even if you reach for the stars, you may not reach them,
but you're not going to come up with a handle of dirt either.
I'm with you and I just, I think I've heard quite a bit from those who are not Christians
that are trying to debate or say that where you're going with this is still mistaken,
that it's an anti-religious or that, you know, I think they're worried because there are some
people that appear to them to be anti-religious, I guess, and so they're trying to protect
or they suspect you, you don't know what you're talking about.
I think Dr. Bob has an idea of what he's talking about and he agrees with what you're saying here.
All of this, I mean, not just dying and rising God motifs, mystery school motifs and the such,
and he's the biggest teddy bear I know. I could have that guy sit down with anyone,
literally, and by the way, there might be a conversation between Rabbi Tobias Singer.
This is an Orthodox Jew who believes that the first man is six, seven thousand years old,
okay, like they have an Old Testament literalist, you know, position and or Hebrew scriptures,
if you will, but he's going to sit down probably and talk to him and they're going to do a show
focusing on the New Testament together. This way it'll be kind of like, wow, what kind of
collaboration, what an amazing, interesting duo. You wouldn't expect that to be, but it doesn't
matter who you are, the guy is not anti-religious and he sees this stuff. So I didn't want to stop
you too long, but if you want to keep going, we can. Try and wrap this anyway. I was talking about
the imagery, the sort of agricultural, yes, those agricultural vestiges are there, but they began
to sort of fade away as these, you know, because these cults or movements, they evolved, of course,
and they begin to take on new meaning and significance, but you can still find hints of
those agricultural vestiges and you find them within Christianity, I'm afraid to say as well,
and I think to deny that is to just, you know, to stick your head in the historical sands.
The terminology that is used, that you find just swimming throughout the
Pauline epistles, where that converges with the mystery of religions, the very word
mysterion in Greek, that's used 27 times in the New Testament, 21 of which are by Paul.
You most frequently find it there. Mysterion is rooted in the Greek mayan, which means
to close, which has a twofold meaning there. In the mystery religions,
it was to close the lips, to maintain secrecy, but it was also to close the eyes,
so that you experienced the darkness, death, and in reopening them, you again see the light.
His axe experience.
Yeah, and that brings us to Epoptis, which is witnessing or beholding,
and you see the importance of that in the New Testament, and just like you were talking about,
Paul defends his apostleship by appealing to the fact that he himself has seen Christ.
I want to say it's 1 Corinthians 9, if I'm not mistaken, but that also in 1 Corinthians 15.
He's including himself there in the list saying, hey, I saw him, I saw him too.
I think it's elsewhere in 1 Corinthians where he talks about, am I not an apostle?
Have I not seen the Lord? You realize the importance of apostleship being tied to
having seen or witnessed or beheld the risen Christ.
Also, Talios, perfection or maturity, this seems to have originally been rooted in the idea of
the crops having grown to their full level, of having reached maturity, having grown to that
full level, and the same kind of meaning is applied to the mystery cult initiates.
They are made perfect. You see this throughout Paul's epistles as one being made perfect in the
eyes of the Lord. Plutarch talked about those who are perfect and initiated by the mysteries,
this idea of perfection or maturity, and then Nepios, which talks about babes.
We talk about Paul, Paul, excuse me, talked about the babes in Christ. These are the newly reborn,
sort of like the ones who fall into milk, the newly reborn or immature, newly initiated,
who will go on to become Talios or perfected or mature. It's no coincidence that we find this
stuff in the Pauline epistles and the ties, the links to the mystery religions. You can do like
Bruce Metzger did, which is to try and drive a wedge in there and say, ah, but these terms are
used differently and apply in different ways in the New Testament than Mystery Religion X.
That's the case for every single Mystery Religion. Richard Carrier does an absolutely stellar job
covering this and on the historicity of Jesus, where whether or not you agree with Carrier's views
regarding the historicity of Jesus, even if you think that book is completely wrong when it comes
to mythosism, he's on point when he's discussing the mystery cult terminology as it's applied there.
Absolutely stellar job. What else was I going to say? When it comes to the apologetics concerning
the Mystery Religions, a great source for this is Earl Doherty. On his site, you can find it online
and read it for free, The Mystery Cults and Christianity and the Jesus Puzzle. Just search
the Jesus Puzzle, go to the supplemental articles and you'll find the Mystery Cults and Christianity
Parts A, B, C, and D. He delves right into some of the most prominent apologetics as they pertain
to defending Christianity against influence from the mysteries. You know, Gunter Wagner, who wrote
sort of the Bible when it comes to battling the idea that there was Greek or mystery cult influence
and Christianity, Earl Doherty just goes through one argument after another and pries them apart
and basically makes the point that these guys are missing the forest for the trees. It seems
that the apologetic tactic is to appeal to the devil in the details. I say, and so does Doherty,
you're missing the forest for the trees. It depends on how far you choose to zoom in or out with
your metaphorical lens. You know, if you go into close, you're going to be able to see these various
distinctions and so forth as you would expect from a syncretistic faith. But if you back out a
little bit and just kind of look at the wider correspondences, so to speak, you can see quite
clearly that this is all kind of the same stuff. It's all cut from the same cloth.
I love that because it's good to, it's healthy to have both to really see it both.
Absolutely. Yeah. And I could see like from a,
because the distinctions are important, but they do not make the case that apologists want them to
make. Right. Yeah. I'm a big satellite view kind of guy. Don't get me wrong. I love getting into
the details, but when you look at it from the satellite, you got to go, man, the evolutionary
model of how these things became and progressively developed. It's fascinating. It truly is fascinating
because it goes to show even Christianity is cut, like you said, from the same cloth or it's
evolving the same way as all the others. And it still is to this day. It's not going to stop.
That's the kind of crazy thing is that, well, he didn't come back 2000 years ago. Like you said,
let's figure out a way to make this work. And now we have new theories that came out like 1840
something with the whole preterist understanding that Jesus actually did return. They, everybody
missed it. He did come back. And that's a fundamentalist approach because he said it was coming and
you can't lie. But Derek, this is wonderful, man. Thank you so much for coming on here and
sharing some of the mystery school stuff. I know we have a lot more shows to do on this topic.
We'll go into topic related subjects. If I would like to end on a note for Samuel Sanmao,
if that's right, because this is the guy Rabbi Samuel Sanmao who coined the term parallelomania.
This is the guy who said, Hey, look, man, sometimes this goes too far. And I'm right there with him.
You know, when we talk about zeitgeist and some of that stuff. But coming from him, here's what he
has to say concerning the mystery religions. The similarities between Pauline Christianity and the
mystery religions need to be recognized for only then can one glimpse that what Paul was offering
his hears was not a new purpose or a new vision, but a new form of a familiar need and goal. He
was teaching not a different salvation, but a newer version. And as he insisted, the only form of
salvation, not a strange or recondite religious goal, but what he considered to be the sure and
sole means of achieving the commonly recognized goal of religion. And in fact, I'd lied,
much as I want to bring Rabbi Samuel Sanmao to the picture, I actually want to end with
Marvin Meyer, who wrote this source book on the ancient mysteries.
In his epilogue, dying and rising in Christianity and the other mysteries,
it's not only has he kind of covered that whole territory, you know, discussing these ancient
texts and so forth. But he goes on to say here in the epilogue, for Paul and for countless Christian
believers after Paul, Christ is preeminently a dying and rising savior. And those who follow
Christ participate in the crucifixion and resurrection of Christ. We have died with Christ,
Paul proclaims, and we shall be raised with Christ. When Paul explains the nature of the
resurrection in 1 Corinthians 15, he employs images familiar to devotees of the mystery
religions. For example, the illusion in mysteries, a seed of weed or some other grain that dies and
then rises, that's emphasized. I'm going to skip past some of this. And Paul's vision of Christ
as a dying and rising savior is reminiscent of other savior figures and other Greco-Roman
mystery religions, which have carried the day as the dominant formulation of the Christian gospel.
The story of the death and the death of Jesus in Christian thought resembles more closely the
stories of the deaths of savior figures in the mystery religions. The story of the dying and
rising deity is one of the oldest stories in the world. And fertility deities like ball and body,
the dying and rising of crops is recounted in the mythic cycles of death and rebirth.
I'm getting there. Some scholars have argued that the image of the dying and rising gods and
goddesses in the mystery religions is fanciful. And that these deities do not actually rise as
Jesus has said to have risen. They may indeed die like Jesus, but thereafter they stay where
they belong. That is dead. Such critique of dying and rising deities may will be motivated by
apologetic concerns designed to maintain the uniqueness of the resurrected Christ. In fact,
the deities of the mystery religions provide ample evidence for the proclamation of the
continuation of life and the manifestation of new life in the mysteries. Now, I'll end on this.
It may well be that Christianity witnesses to the triumph of ball, core, and all the other
dying and rising gods and goddesses in the proclamation of the death and resurrection of
Christ. In Christianity, the ancient story of the dying and rising of the divine of crops,
of humans of all, may reach a powerful conclusion and the piety of the mysteries may
achieve a final vindication. In Christianity, the pure light that shines according to Clement
may be the light of those enlightened by the ancient mysteries.
Powerful conclusion. Yes, I say you need to read these books, too. And get the book that
comes out with John Loftus and Dr. Price and you, Derek Bennett. I really appreciate you coming
on, man. We got to go into more of these and go into better. We'll go into like more close-ups
and go into the details more, even though we did some of that as well. All the ways to support
whatever you're doing is down in the description. He also has a book for those who are non-believers
who are interested in recovery. You guys need to check that out down in the description as well.
That is on Amazon, correct? Yes. So they definitely... So non-believers path to recovery.
And there's a lot in there that I think is important. Both you and I are no longer in the
faith and yet we are sober, clean, whatever you'd like to say. So with that being said,
I hope the light stays with you, my friend.
Ditto. Right? And if you guys want to hear from Derek, you have any questions or anything,
you guys can email me mythvisionpodcast.gmail.com and I'll be promising not to let him know anything.
No, I'm just kidding. But I'll definitely read his book as well. Yeah, he's on Facebook and
yeah, we hang out. We got to do more of these for sure and go into specific details and stuff like
I said, we'll zoom in. And if you haven't figured it out by now, we are mythvision.
Join our Patreon.
We are mythvision.
