Good morning ladies and gentlemen, Derek Lambert here, MythFish and Podcast.
Heading to Dr. Robert M. Price's house and I wanted to let you guys know thank you for everything you guys have done.
We're about to run out of visits with Dr. Price in terms of the donations that we've made.
I'm making a plug here to ask for your help once again to make that possible.
Donate to my PayPal. I will let Dr. Price know that from Derek, from MythFish and Podcast if you will,
these are for the visits. That way he sees that his time is valuable and obviously I'm paying him for his time.
$100 a visit and that's cheap for four or five, six hours a day that I'm, you know, sometimes eight.
You know, really digging hard with him and some of these visits are covered by doing the interviews with Rabbi Tobias Singer
and we just recently interviewed Rabbi Tobias Singer again.
We have one that's being launched at 1 p.m. today. We also interviewed with Jesus from Australia.
So if you guys could help with that, also I, Derek, personally, I'm asking if you guys would be able to help me
by either joining the Patreon, which pays Derek Lambert for my work with MythFish
and to make this a full-time job, trying to make this gig my primary gig, or if you can donate, if you're able.
If not, you don't need to. So for those of you who make this about, oh, I hear a lot about donations,
I don't think you understand and I really, really wish that people understood.
I'm really trying to put everything I have into this and this is my only, like, this is my only way of income right now.
I'm trying to make this my only way of income.
I have a part-time job that I'm working on the side to try and make something come in while the monetization from YouTube
is paying me something and the Patreon that I have.
So I want this to be a full-time gig and eventually take off to a point where I not only am paying my bills,
but I'm able to travel and interview these scholars in person, wherever they might be, you know, across the U.S.
Like I have in my mind, I want to travel to Dr. Richard Carrier's house and visit a couple days
and do in-person interviews like I've done with Dr. Bob, asking your questions.
I love asking your guys' questions. You guys think of questions I would never be able to think of
and the ideas coming from you are just amazing.
So I ask you, if you're able to help me, please do.
I'm not in the best financial situation right now and I'm constantly trying to take care of my three kids and my wife.
So if that's something you guys can do to help MythVision keep going, I really greatly appreciate that
and if you can't, I understand.
I'm doing my damnedest, if you will, guys, to make this thing grow and to do bigger things with the channel.
So I really do appreciate you guys, everyone who's helped. I really do.
Jesus from Australia, we're waiting to fix a few things on the video and we're launching that as well.
We interviewed him and we were extremely kind.
I don't know if there's many atheists out there in the world who would be this kind to this gentleman.
So we really were kind and Dr. Price was with us during the interview.
You guys will probably think that one's a really interesting, different kind of interview.
I've never heard anyone make the claims he has that I've interviewed.
A lot of XJW material.
I'm trying to get up with Mike Render from Scientology to have him interviewed.
Ron Miscavige, guys, the father of David Miscavige of the Church of Scientology.
The guy who's like the CEO up there at the top, the board, whatever he is, the chairman of the board of Scientology.
He, his father, Ron Miscavige, is hopefully fingers crossed.
He said he's going to be interviewed with us.
We hope we can get him interviewed on his escaping the cult of Scientology and he has one hell of a story.
I plan on getting other big names.
We have a show coming up about ancient atheism.
Like, were there really ancient atheists in the ancient Greek world that really believed there were no gods, that gods didn't exist?
Or did they just not worship gods, but acknowledged that maybe there were gods that exist?
Some were like that.
Well, we're going to be going into that and I really am excited about doing that interview as well on battling the gods.
So that one will be interesting.
I also have on the 1st of March coming Matt Dillahunte and we're coming up with ideas of exactly how I would like to do this show.
But I think that one's going to be interesting.
March the 1st.
I want to do more, man.
I want to grow this thing and this isn't MythVision podcast isn't just Derek Lambert.
It's you guys.
We are MythVision.
You guys get your questions asked.
You guys come up with creative ideas.
And I try to remain as flexible as a host as possible to facilitate an arena for, you know, public knowledge being taught to the general public for more people to know about this stuff.
And to educate without having to go to a college to look for a PhD.
You can get some of this stuff right here for free.
Some great videos are coming up with Dr. Dennis R. McDonald on the Dionysian Gospel too.
You guys are going to want to check this out.
I got so much, man.
I'm excited.
So if you guys are able to help go down in the description, please give me some one-time donations or join the Patreon.
It would really go super far.
And I have some future plans for my Patreon members with merchandise.
I do have merchandise now.
You guys can get hoodie shirts, t-shirts, females have clothing items with the same logos on it and stuff like that.
And never forget, ladies and gentlemen, we are MythVision.
Premier is going to be at one with Rabbi and Dr. Price.
