Ladies and gentlemen, I'm the host of MythVision podcast, and I want to do a self-promotion.
I was asked by one of my Patreon members that I really should, Artie Hagen.
Thank you so much.
I really appreciate it.
And he says, you know, you should really let everyone know the MythVision channel is publishing
an exceptional range of information from acknowledged subject matter experts.
If you value this ongoing research, you can support our efforts by subscribing to Patreon.
In addition to supporting our work, our Patreon members are provided opportunities to pose
questions which they feel could use, could usefully be addressed to our guests.
For a very long time now, I've been taking the questions of my Patreon members and the
general public and applying them to scholars like Dr. Robert M. Price and other scholars.
Well, let me go ahead and give you guys a tease.
I have been up to a lot lately.
Let's just put it that way.
Here is an idea.
As we go through here, I just flew for seven days and you guys helped make that possible
with the GoFundMe's.
Flew and went and saw Elaine Pagels, John J. Collins, Joe Baden, all doctors.
And this coming up the ninth, I'm going to be seeing, which is in Charlotte, no one's
paid for this trip.
I'm traveling on my own expenses to go and interview Dr. James D. Tabor.
I've got a ton of questions of his.
Patreon members have the ability to ask the questions of MythVision.
If the question deems to be good, I will use it most likely for the scholars that I am
actually trying to interview.
I'm trying to produce the most educational stuff and bring in various forms of scholarship
in different fields.
So, Dr. Joe Baden, how did Israel form?
It's not really the Bible that you're reading.
How old is the Hebrew Bible?
Prophecy in human authors?
Scholarship, Dr. Collins asks him, where is it heading?
What do you think, since he's retired?
Dr. Collins just recently retired.
The Shapiro Deuteronomy document, is it a forgery?
Bible characters, did they exist?
Did Adam exist?
Did Cain and Abel exist?
And then on and on and on later into the history, till you finally start getting some meat on
the bone.
Really good interview.
All of these are on Patreon, early access.
The fullness of the Gentiles, Paul quotes this, but it's a reference to the Ephraim multitude
in Genesis.
See how he deals with that.
Does God have a wife, Asherah?
Cain and I, it's equal Israelites.
Coming on the clouds, literally, Yahweh and his wife, Asherah, by Dr. Collins, the Exodus
invention, the vanity of Solomon, the Exodus isn't true, regathering lost Israel, dating
Daniel early, as Christians want.
The Bible's God struggles.
He's not the immovable mover, as many think, in the Bible.
Daniel and the Davidic Messiah, I posted that, look, I was sick too.
I had posted, that was just today.
So now let's get into stuff that I did yesterday.
Pentateuch sources talk.
Does P, no D and E, you know, do they talk?
Pentateuch sources talk by Dr. Baden, the documentary hypothesis, apocryphal and inter-testamental
literature.
Did it have an influence on early Christianity and Second Temple Judaism?
What was the sin of Ham?
Did he castrate his father?
Did he just disrespect his father?
Signs of Satan anti-Semitism with Dr. Elaine Pagels.
Why religion?
The teaching of Gnosis, what is it?
The Gentiles in the Book of Revelation, the dragon came out of the sea.
What three things did Jesus say to Thomas in the Gospel, Thomas?
Should the Book of Revelation be Scripture?
It was debated early Christianity.
What's the Book of Revelation about?
The secret about Jesus' birth?
The Gospel of Mary Magdalene, the Gospel of Truths, Valentinius, the Gnostic teacher.
144,000 in Revelation and the Great Multitude, are they the same group?
The Garden of Eden story.
Authority from God, the creeds, the idea of creedal, let's have authoritarian religion.
Secret teachings of Jesus.
All these are by Elaine Pagels, and we're going to continue scrolling down.
There's so much.
Two versions of God battle, the Gnostic God.
The start of Christian fundamentalism, true beliefs, the original beliefs of Christianity.
The Bible interpreted literally, you were too heretical for me.
I did a video where I told her, I was like, I avoided you.
I knew about you, but I avoided you.
You were too much.
I couldn't handle it.
Heretics versus the Orthodox Church, atheist philosopher, so this I just launched.
You'll see I leak these slowly on the YouTube, but there's hundreds that haven't been released
and I'm not exaggerating of Dr. Price and others.
Let's see.
The third version of the Mimesis discussion or Dr. Price and Dr. Dennis R. McDonald has
not been released to the public yet.
This is the third part right here to finish the Bible.
See Paul's mission to the Gentiles, haven't released that one to the public, haven't released
this?
Does the Gospel of Thomas know Matthew, Mark, Luke and John?
What came first in the New Testament?
I believe I launched that one or maybe it was Mark came first.
I only launched one of the Dr. Goodacre ones, I believe.
Maybe it was two either way, tons and tons and tons of Dr. Price material that has not
been released.
And if he goes one day, I'll have tons and tons of material of Dr. Price that no one has
all on the Patreon.
You guys are just helping support what I'm doing and you get early access to everything
that I'm doing.
You can ask questions, you can communicate with me privately.
There's so many opportunities and it helps me do what I'm doing.
The list goes on on the videos that I've done.
If you guys have any questions, anything like that, you're interested in doing, I mean,
you can go down and down, you'll probably spend an hour scrolling down through all my
Patreon material.
I'm sorry, I'm sweating out here in the garage, I got the door open.
But he told me to do a self-promotion because, well, I asked like nine questions from Patreon
members to these scholars that I was going to and interviewing.
And a lot of the Patreon members' names get brought up in the videos.
They help support.
So I asked their questions in their name unless they'd rather remain anonymous.
But by you supporting me, you continue my endeavors and the drive of me providing for
my three kids and my wife from home to do this and to study and to do this inquiry, looking
and trying to get communication between scholars that probably never will talk or they talk,
but it's not public.
You're not aware of it.
I want to hear them talk or at least try to make them talk.
All of these trips and stuff you guys are making possible.
So this little self-promotion I wanted you guys to see.
And the Patreon, it's as cheap as $3 a month.
You can pay for the year and get a discount.
If you want to bump that up, that's always greatly appreciated.
And I want to try and do more things for those who help support me on this platform because
we are MythVision and I want to do great things.
I want to bring more of the education to the general public.
Get people to steer away from fundamentalism and harmful beliefs.
I get it.
You're never going to make everyone not believe.
That's fine.
I'm not concerned about that.
But some of our beliefs literally form the way we think and the way we live and the way
we treat other people.
I want to have a world where we're not treating people that kind of way because you believe
something different.
I want to try and educate people that these are superstitions and that a lot of this stuff
is outdated.
We have better ways to approach the world.
And I think it's important to know these things about the very books we hold sacred
or at least have shaped Western society, this whole civilization that we live in.
So I just appreciate everyone and thank you for the support that you have made.
This is a self-promotion.
I was asked from a Patreon member to do.
And I want you guys to know that all the help you can do really helps.
If you're not able to join Patreon, I'm trying to get my members' only page on my website
set up for whatever reason.
Some people don't like Patreon.
So they want to find a way to be able to see the content early and do what Patreon does.
I'm trying to do that on my website as well.
So I'm a one-man army trying to do everything, edit all these videos.
I got to pat myself on the back.
I'm getting over a cold right now.
And I literally edited 40-something videos.
There are seven videos with Elaine Pagels.
I've had to send off to a editor on Fiverr.com because the audios came through really rough
and I somehow patched together some of these.
I don't know if all of my chords were completely connected, completely, like really good and
why there was a little bit...
My mic wasn't picking up in certain things the best way as Elaine's was, but her content's
what's most important anyway and what she has to say.
So I love you guys and thank you so much for listening this long.
Thank you.
