Mythologizing Jesus from Jewish teacher to epic hero with Dennis R. McDonald,
you want to check this show out for sure. If you want to see mimesis criticism and direct parallels
on showing how the gospels, especially the synoptics in this case, are borrowing from the
Homeric epics and the Greek myths and stories, you're going to want to check out this show.
This takes a whole new dynamic to the development of the New Testament.
Things that are once again overlooked by Dr. Ehrman. He doesn't even discuss the
mimesis criticism and talk about these stories and how they developed these stories from
older myths from the Greek world, as well as copying from the Old Testament. Dennis R. McDonald's
is going to have one heck of a show with me. He really enjoyed it. I enjoyed it. And if you like
this show, don't forget to subscribe, like, comment your thoughts on the subject matter down
below. It helps this channel grow. And ladies and gentlemen, I have a patron now for MythVision,
so you can help support the channel. If you want to be initiates, if you want to join the heresies
with us, go check out the patron down in the description. You guys can star for as little
as $3 a month. I really appreciate all the support I can get to help keep this channel growing.
Thanks a lot.
We are MythVision. Welcome back, ladies and gentlemen. I have a treat for you today. Let
me tell you, I'm excited. I've been waiting for this episode here for quite some time.
And I just recently finished the gentleman's work. So welcome to the show, Dennis R. McDonald.
How are you, sir? I'm fine. Thank you, Derek. Thank you. I want to get through real quick on a
little short bio for everybody so they understand who you are, why this is important. And look,
guys, I'm not going to go through the whole thing because if I did, I'd just be reading you the Bible.
That's how long this guy's got a rap sheet here with what he's dealt with in the academic world
and his research. And I don't mean that in a funny way. I mean that seriously. Dennis R.
McDonald received his PhD from Harvard University in 1978, 1978. He's taught New Testament Christian
Origins at Goshen College and the Eilith, if I'm pronouncing that correctly, School of Theology
and Claremont School of Theology. So he's written many books, just to list a couple that I just
finished. Guys, you have got to get this book. I'm not just saying that. I say that all the time,
you know, on books. I just finished this. If you want to find any beauty, like really,
really search for any lasting beauty from the gospel narratives and really see how wonderful
the authors wrote and what they did and how creative they were, get them mythologizing Jesus
from Jewish teacher to epic hero. I finished it last night, went out with a bang, about had a tear
drop from my eye. No joke on how wonderful this book was written. He has the Dionysian Gospel,
okay. This right here is the fourth gospel and Euripides. Look at that guys. All right,
from the earliest gospel, Q plus to the gospel of Mark, solving the synoptic problem with
Mimesis criticism, which we're going to talk about Mimesis criticism today and Luke and Virgil,
imitations of classical Greek literature. Be on the lookout, check these out. They are down in
the description as well as the links to go to his websites and any other information will be down
there that Mr. McDonald would like to talk about. If you want, you want me to call you doctor or
Oh, Dennis is fine, Derek. Yeah. Yes, sir. I'll call you Derek too. Yes, sir. I'm fine with that. I
have no PhD. So, well, thank you for joining me on the program here for sure. No, it's a pleasure.
I actually saw you on other YouTube channels in the past. I've seen you debate with Dr. Carrier
on the historicity. I've seen you discuss this theory at some extent. And I even what one thing
I loved that Pine Creek Doug, I really liked that guy. He's a really cool guy and he does a good
service, I think on talking with Christians and trying to like understand why they believe the
way they do and kind of make them challenge. And on that show, he was interviewing you about your
Homeric epics in the gospel of Mark book, which is an older version, I think of the mythologizing
Jesus, I think. Yeah. Okay. And he asked you about Dr. Airman. And he's like, what's up with
this guy? Like, did he look at your book? Did he think there's something here? It doesn't sound
like he's following Mimesis criticism. No, no, he doesn't. And in fact, I've had, Bart is a friend
of mine. We respect each other's work. Right. But I told him one time he has to redo everything he
says about the Gospels in this widespread introduction. Because if one takes seriously
the literary creativity of the gospel authors and their indebtedness, not just to Judaism,
but also to the Greco-Roman world, especially its poetry, it is a major paradigm shift in how one
views these texts. And he's entirely silent on anything related to it. And by the way, Derek,
that's, I don't mean to pick on him, that's characteristic of the discipline generally.
Right. And in the introduction to a gospel synopsis that uses Mimesis criticism to reward the gospel
authors for being not just scribes, but also real authors, and engaging with the major literature
of the Greco-Roman world, as well as the Jewish Bible, I have a long section on why it is that
my discipline, which I love and have been invested in, is so reluctant to buy into Mimesis criticism.
And I don't know if you're familiar with the work of Tomas Kuhn, The Structure of Scientific
Revolution. It's a major player in our definition of paradigm shift. And he talks what it takes in
sciences to shift a paradigm from one model to another. And he uses Darwin or Einstein or Newton
and so on as ways of describing this phenomenon. And in my view, we are right in the tension point
of moving from one paradigm to another. And it's podcasts like what you're presenting and what I've
been on before, that are going to breach the next generation of scholars who are going to be able
to shift the paradigm. It doesn't mean you get rid of paradigms, such as barterments or others in
the field. It's rather you enrich the paradigm by allowing it to account for new information,
new discoveries. And I'd like to think I've been involved in the discovery of parallels
in classical Greek poetry that otherwise have been ignored or invisible because of the inertia
of biblical scholarship. And we really are, we are seeing wave after wave of increase in interest
in Mimesis criticism, but we're not yet at full tide, if I could pull it that put it that way.
And that's why I so value the exposure that you're helping me have with these books because
those paradigms don't shift easily. And sometimes I've been the victim of hostility. So I don't,
I understand why people are protective of their own paradigms, but they need to account for
new kinds of information, the kind that seem to have been important in your reading, mythologizing
Jesus. You did a beautiful job. And I felt that it was really well done using Christian Christian
Church Fathers on just getting this thing started and saying, listen, these guys had the criticisms
from the pagan writers, these pagan writers knew they know what these stories look like. Everybody
who knew anything, who read and spoke Greek had awareness of who the Homeric epics were,
the Iliad, the Odyssey, et cetera, these different variety of books. And that was one of the attacks
was, hey, this is just a ripoff where they're arguing with the Christians, of course, there's
debate. And you said, listen, yeah, yeah, there's definitely that going on. But you know, this Jesus
better than those. And you're right. When you did your book, it's like, you're actually right. The
parallels are so obvious in many cases. And in some cases, I will admit, there aren't as strong as
parallels as are in others. Yeah. But they're still like, sometimes verbatim, like the woman,
I want to get into details. Are we too early to get into details yet? I think bringing up a case
first, like talking about it is important. But I'm excited about this book, though. So I think
it's important. Wouldn't you agree, though, that it's, it's right there in church father, you know,
history, that this is an argument taking place that already. Yeah. And in fact, the information
that I provide in mythologizing Jesus is literally figuratively the tip of the iceberg.
There are major poems that were produced in the Greek speaking east
that retold gospel stories by ripping out lines from the Homeric epics to retell them. They're
called the Homero Chantones. The Gospel of Nicodemus was published in three different moments. One in
Greek in the fourth century, one in Latin in the sixth or seventh century, and another in Greek in
the ninth century. At each stage, these are orthodox. At each stage, they're retelling gospel
stories by using Homeric or Euripity and poetry. They did not see it as heretical. They saw it as
a part of the orthodox interpretation. Now, what happens in the West is people stopped, people
stopped reading Homer and they, or Euripity, so they didn't know these texts. Now, biblical
scholarship in the West is indebted to the Western tradition of interpretation much more than the
Eastern interpretation. I can give an example of John Chrysostom in a sermon equating a gospel
story with something he's read in Iliad, and he expected his audience to make the illusion.
So, you know, you have this stuff going on in the Prizes in the Eastern tradition. They did not
consider it heretical because these Gospel authors, they're not saying my deity is like,
say, Dionysus or Heracles or Odysseus. They're trying to say he's better. Now, one of the things
that I've tried to champion, but have not been very successful, is for people to understand that
theology is largely social identity construction. And if you're reading the Gospels hoping to find
history, you're going to be disappointed. If you read the Gospels interested in knowing how narrative
constructs social reality and bonds people together in their environment where you have,
say, Homeric deities or you have the Jewish God or whatever, then these texts make theological
sense. They're not theological in that they're linked to history in the same way as many people
would like. They're linked to history as because historical people wrote them in historical
circumstances trying to address social realities. And narrative is a brilliant way of reconstructing
and founding new social identity. So, one of the things I think that's a challenge for the next
generation is for not to jettison theology, but to understand theology is social identity
formation. And it's a creative, wonderful myth vision process. Myth vision. Interesting. I wonder
where I got that. Yeah, that's, you know, I wrote a few things down. And I love what you said there
because it's been my recent quest, if you will, my, my myth vision quest here on this YouTube
channel to try and find the historical Jesus, which I don't want to go there on this show. We
can do other shows. I'm very interested in hearing what you've discovered, where you go with it,
because all of the mimesis criticism and stuff. But I just wanted to like point out that I actually
entertain all avenues, right? So I allow the mythicists to come in and I have historicists who
think he was a rebel leader. And then others who say, listen, he was a magician, which I'm going to
have Robert Connor on at some time, and he's going to come talk about the magician Jesus. And
I entertain all of them. I love the idea, the notion. But just recently, I had Lena Einhorn,
who did a shift in time, show that if you take the gospels in any way, try to find some history
there, like references to real people, places and things and stuff. They took place if you take them
that way in the 50s, not the 30s under Pontius Pilate, if you look at Josephus. So you not only
have mimesis criticism, but if you do try to find any way where theology separates itself from possible
historical, any type of reference to something historical, they're still not in the right time.
So it's like, ah, you got to pull your hair out and say, okay, guys, let's just remember we're
speculating here. So that's all you can do is speculate. And I said it at the intro of my,
one of my last videos was, guys, I don't know, but it's hard to find what's real and what's not
in this theology, or we can call it historical fiction, if you will. It's beautiful, though.
And when you mentioned the Gospel of Nicodemus, are you referencing in your book here the Byzantine
intellectuals that you discuss in the book? Yes, that's it. Okay, that was really clever. I wanted
to ask you about that, because these are believers. These are obviously Orthodox believers who are
doing exactly what you're saying. So they're obviously not fundamentalists in the same sense
as what we see today. Okay. Did you want to comment prior to me move into another idea?
We do, but I want to give you an abbreviated version, and you're welcome to pursue it if you
want to. Please. I think the one thing we know about Jesus is that he was crucified,
which is a Roman death, and that he, probably there were complicities with the Jewish
intellectual establishment at the time in getting him crucified. Now, what would get him crucified?
I think you can see both in Paul and in the Q document, which I'd like to talk about a little
bit later, maybe a different podcast, that Jesus in those texts is credited with redefining Jewish
law in a way that emphasizes openness and compassion. And in the Q document, this is where we find
lots of the controversies over the law, Jesus healing on the Sabbath, collecting grain on the Sabbath.
The famous story of Jesus forgiving a sinful woman I place in Q, where Jesus is explicitly
opposing Jewish and Mosaic commandment to kill women like this. And I think what's happened
in the Q document is Jesus' compassion and reinterpretation of the law, which I think was
historical. You have it in Paul as well, although Paul ships it in a somewhat different direction,
but it's a law-free gospel. Well, where does he get it? He attributes it to the tradition.
Logoi of Jesus, or Q, attributes it to Jesus himself and the tradition. I think that was
enough to get him in trouble because he's violating Torah observance, although he's not
jettisoning it, but he's making it responsible in a compassionate way. The author of the Lost
Gospel is rewriting Deuteronomy to portray Jesus as the promised prophet like Moses,
who is changing the law because of compassion. And it appears everywhere in Q. For example,
you tie them in the cumin and the dill. You should do those things, but you'll let the
way to your things of the law pass, such as justice and love. So the way he's depicted in the Q
document is a champion of the kingdom of God and a new understanding of what it means to be Jewish
that is compassionate. The Q document, as I understand it, says, prostitutes and tax collectors
will get into the kingdom of God before you tour observance Pharisees. Now, I did not come to
call the righteous. I've come to call sinners. So I think we can say that Jesus was not a Christian,
but a Jew. He was Torah observant to the extent that the Torah didn't hurt people,
but he also was a champion of compassion. Now, what happens in the Synoptic Gospels, in my view,
is that that vision of Jesus as the champion of compassion and justice and the outsider,
gets magnified into the Greco-Roman world. So Jesus is also more compassionate than Odysseus
or Achilles. His God is more compassionate than Zeus or Apollo. So this notion of Jesus as a
champion of justice and compassion has a Jewish side that is that Jesus is the new Moses who
changes law with an interest in compassion and justice and the outsider. And it happens in the
Gospels by having that vision extended to the Greco-Roman world where Jesus is also more compassionate
just and has more divine power to than the Greek deities. So how do we talk about the fountain
head of such a revolutionary reevaluation of Judaism that is still present to some extent in
the Christian movement today? Well, it started somewhere. Paul didn't know Q, Q didn't know Paul,
so it's got to be back there, and they're attributing it to Jesus. So I don't think we know
precisely anything that Jesus said, but I think it'd be very difficult to craft a Jesus that wasn't
responsible for a radical and for Him lethal reinterpretation of Jewish law. Interesting. I
think we could do a show on that where you're going into your your evidences on that. I know
some people disregard Q altogether, but I'm interested because I do interview Dr. Robert
Price often, and Dr. Price does think there's a Q, and he thinks there might be more than
one source. So there's like, you know, there's a variety of possible ideas going on. You have Q
and then you have Q+, and then, you know, so you do go into this stuff. I'm interested in doing
shows on those books as well, when I can digest all of them, because reading is very difficult for
me to do with my limited time. I can listen more than I can actually digest the words, but
this was such a good question. Derek, before we leave Q, let me just say one more thing. My main
subject now is a mimetic synopsis of the synoptic gospel, which includes, in this order, Mark Matthew
Luke, but in the first column is my reconstruction of Q. But it's a mimetic synopsis insofar as the
literary antecedents to these pericope are, there's an introduction to the pericope that includes
the relevant passages from the Jewish Bible and Greek poetry. I wish I could add Greek philosophy
to it, but I can't because of the size of the book. But it's intended to be a reference work,
and it should be available online in a PDF for free. And so I'm working with a publisher about
getting that done, because at my age, I'm comfortable enough, I don't need the income. I really think
exposure to this kind of information is more important. For that reason, I'm doing it in
English and not in Greek too. So I'm hoping that to get a little more traction on it.
Well, you guys hear that. So in any way, shape or form, go down in the description and help.
In some way, shape or form, reach out, do whatever we need to do, go to the links,
check it out, be on the lookout for this material, because I know that we're going to do more shows
down the road where if once you drop it, we're going to end up screaming it from the rooftop so
everybody can hear about it. One thing that I thought was fascinating about this book,
and I usually reference my own personal journey, so like a lot of things I bring up, some people
don't find as interesting as others, but I actually deconstructed from Christianity coming from a
position called full preterism, not partial preterism. Full preterism is the teaching that
the second coming of Jesus literally did happen because he said it would in that generation,
and that generation would not pass away. You know, I was fundamentalist Christian, so
you got to kind of like really go over here to get in my brain to try and understand, but
nonetheless, the final end, the apocalypse, the resurrection of the dead, everything was supposed
to happen in that generation. And the second coming, if you will, his return to bring all
things to an end did. The Gospel narrative had been preached to the whole world because we would
use harmonization, and we'd run to Paul, and we'd see Paul Paul said the Gospel had been
preached to every creature. The Gospel had been preached, the world was turned upside down with
this message and acts and other places that references like already been preached to the
whole world, and they're just waiting for the end to happen. Well, I saw in this memesis,
memesis criticism that you brought up in here, that you took an approach that Homer goes to war.
He disappears for a while. They're all waiting and hoping he comes back, but they're afraid
their guy Homer's not coming back. Yeah, it's not Homer, it's Odysseus.
Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Homer's writing of Odysseus. Sorry. Scratch that. Odysseus is going to war
with Troy, and he dies, everyone thinks, okay, as Jesus dies, as most think, and only a few know
he ascends, but the narrative is a little different. Nothing's in exact chronological order.
However, he's gone for 20 years, and then he comes back, but he comes back secretly,
and you take this interesting parallel to the Homeric epic to Jesus' own claims of a return
with that idea of Odysseus' return as well. Now, I don't know if you could probe any on that and
comment on the return of Christ Jesus, if you will, and what relevance the Gospel narratives do you
think have on their eschatology of a return of Jesus, and do you think they literalized this
return from Mimesis criticism, and they took a narrative that was not intended necessarily to be
the literal return of the Messiah Jesus? It's a very complex idea, and do you have any comment on
that, maybe the end of Jesus' return and stuff, with the whole criticism here? Well, I think this
is one place where Bart Ehrman has done as a service, and that to talk about the apocalyptic
background of the early church, you find it in Paul, even before the composition of any of the
Gospels, including probably the Q document. So Paul very robustly says early on that he expects to
be alive when Jesus returns, and then later in the writings, if we write about the chronology,
he expects that he will die, and those of us, and then there will be a resurrection of the dead to
meet the Lord in the air, and so we shall ever be with the Lord. So I think that represents a very
early apocalyptic vision. The Q document has a somewhat different read on it. It's rather that
Jesus dies, people will not see him, and he says, you will not see me again until you say blessed
is the one who comes in the name of the Lord. That is, he's an absent Lord until he comes back
in vindication, and the promise of destroying the temple and building another is a part of
what Q says. Jesus will come back and destroy the temple. Well, when the temple is destroyed, and Jesus
didn't come, that creates a crisis, and Mark is the first person to recognize that as a crisis,
and so he puts the promise of, I will return and destroy the temple on the mouth of Paul's
teachers and others, but he still insists that the time is short, and this generation will not
pass away until all these things come to pass. The Odyssean piece of that is that when Jesus
comes back, he'll clean, he'll kick butt, the same way that Odysseus kicked butt to the suitors.
So you have this possible echo of the Odyssey already in that place, but in the Gospel of Luke,
it becomes full force. Namely, when the prison Jesus appears to people going to the road to Emmaus,
he is playing the role of Odysseus, revealing himself to his father, Leertes, and then when
he's with the disciples, what does he do? He exposes the wounds on his hands and his feet.
What does Odysseus do to demonstrate to his father that he's returned? He shows the wound on his thigh,
and this depiction appears in medieval art where you have both the depiction of Odysseus revealing
his thigh wound, mostly to Eureklaia, his nurse, and the woman who anoints Jesus for his death,
and the depiction of Jesus exposing the stigmata. So the similarities did not escape ancient artists
as far as medieval art. So you're quite right that Odysseus returning in secret and putting his
house back into order was a very attractive model for a number of early Christians who were expecting
Jesus to return. And I mean, you go into the book and you show these things in ways I would have
never, but then again, I'm not well read on these stories. So I really, really should,
now you make me want to read the actual stories, the source material and read these because
you'll enjoy it so much. I love the end of the book. You asked your your grandchild,
you know, you spend a week reading from the Gospels of Jesus, and then you read from the
Homeric epics. And at the end, you're like, so which one do you like more? And he's like,
the Greek one better. And you're like me too. I love that so much. But one thing you mentioned
in this temple idea where Jesus comes in and starts flipping over the tables, right? Money,
change your tables. A lot of people take that like full force. And I mean, I guess there was
cleansing of the temple situations with like Judah the Galilean and others in history. So they took,
like you said, this weird blend of things that may have actually occurred in some sense and
created a fictional historical fiction. Do you buy that that literally happened that there was a guy
who actually flipped money changers named Jesus? Or do you think that plays more mimesis than it
does in any real history? That's a brilliant question, Derek. And I want to parse it out for you.
Okay. It's one thing to make a comparative literary judgment. It's quite another to make a
historical judgment. Then the question is, because they're both legitimate enterprises,
which one trumps the other? Sorry to use the T word.
But the way I would start answer the question is in three ways. First of all,
we don't have historical information. We have a text and the text itself can be compared with
other texts. And we can have a sense of how much an author was influenced by the antecedent text.
That's not a historical judge. It's not a judgment against the historicity,
but it starts with what we have. It compares it with other things we have. The next question is
to say, what is there about the text that doesn't can't be explained by the known literary models?
And there are some things, for example, the temple or money changers in the temple and so on. So you
have what one might call transforms, where an author is indebted. Obviously Homer didn't
concoct Jesus. He didn't concoct the Jewish temple and so on. So you have residual historical
information. Now that can mean it's a historical novel, or it can mean there's residual historical
information. I think the other is the question of plausibility. Does the narrative ring true
to some extent? And in this case, even though I think the author is heavily indebted to
Odysseus cleaning house and turning the tables and vessels, and that can give more evidence
for it, that doesn't mean that the event didn't take place. And you have to explain why it is
that this Galilean was crucified in Jerusalem because he was a troublemaker. He made trouble
of some kind. And this narrative may be a way of putting a narrative together to make it make
sense. So I think it's plausible. There's nothing miraculous about it. And in fact, one could say
it's somewhat embarrassing that a teacher of non-violence goes and is like this. Now did
something like that happen? I think that's quite possible. Did it happen that way? I would say it's
highly improbable. But that doesn't mean that the story is useless. And I'll tell you why I think
it's not inter-culturally useless. When Odysseus comes home and kicks butt, he kills his opponents.
Nobody is harmed when Jesus cleans the temple except maybe the doves. I didn't hear about the
doves. But he is purging the temple and accuses the temple of being the place where oppression
takes place. So even if one were to stay with the narrative over against the Homeric narrative,
Jesus is relatively non-violent. The humans aren't harmed.
Yeah. And one thing that comes to mind is another possible or possibility, if you will, is that
they are maybe using Josephus in his histories to some extent possibly. That could be something
that they could be using and taking reference of ideas that might be pertinent or relevant to them
and say, hey, this guy cleansed the temple. The temple was a big problem. Let's use a narrative and
add this to it. I've thought about that myself, like the woe saying Jesus when we go to Josephus.
And I know this is outside of my mesis. We'll come right back to that. Just something interesting
where you have Jesus been in a nice, the woe saying Jesus being in the mouthpiece of Jesus
from the Gospels. So it makes you kind of go, well, they could be using Josephus, even if it
didn't literally happen that Jesus flipped over money changers. We know there were people who were
rebels and such that were in that time. That doesn't mean Jesus was one either. They could
just be using this reference. But I like how you showed Odysseus coming back. And once they find out,
it's him, it's on. And he takes them all out. His son, he's telling them, the woman who's,
you know, who actually he was breastfed as a child. And he's like, woman grabs her by the
throat. Listen, don't tell anybody. What was her name again? That was an interesting.
Euraclea means renowned far and wide. And when the woman recognizes Jesus and anointing his head,
he says what she has done will be known far and wide wherever the Gospel is preached.
That can't be an accident. And in fact, the Byzantine poets, in retelling that story,
use that expression. What this woman did for Jesus will be known far and wide.
You know, they see this stuff. We don't. The one thing about Josephus is we have
literary problems with Josephus, too, not just justice. And I think a good case can be made.
In fact, I would support the case that Luke writing early in the century, second century,
could have known the writings of Josephus. I think it's more likely that the experience
that Josephus himself had in the Jewish war wasn't just his experience. It was a part of
what was going on historically. And the author of the Gospel of Mark almost certainly knows
something about what happened during the Jewish war. So at that point, I doubt if it's direct
literary interconnection, it could be the reflecting on pivotal and iconic and tragic
moments in the war independently. That's a good point. I mean, that could be the case.
That could be very well the case there. They know too much, in my opinion, to not know the war
already happened and what's already taken place. But I wrote down, let's see. So I had something,
and I started piggybacking off this methodology. You bring seven points. I think those seven points
are vital in expressing why the scientific approach of mimesis criticism is important.
I wanted to mention one thing, and then maybe we can get into those seven points.
When you talked about Hercules, which we jumped out of Homer's writing here, and I always mispronounce
this. Is it the Aeneid? The Aeneid. The Aeneid. I always mispronounce it. And Hercules is taking
Cerberus, this three-headed dog beast, down to Hades. And you paralleled that around the same
time that Jesus is approaching the Mount of Transfiguration. It was so beautiful. One of the
things I had to write down, and I usually don't write in books while I write when I'm reading,
but I had to. I was like, I have to write this down. So I'm writing in the actual book. And I
said, okay, three-headed dog, do you see a parallel with James Peter and John
coming on the mountain as the three heads of Cerberus in any way, possibly paralleling the
narrative? No, not until you said it. It never occurred to me. But just a modest footnote.
That story is the only place where the Gospel of Mark is imitating Greek poetry other than
Homeric poetry. It's imitating madness by Euripides. And that story is so clear. The
parallels are so smashing that you can hardly deny. Now, again, a literary judgment is not
the same as a historical judgment. So did Jesus exercise? My assumption is that he did,
that he was an exorcist. So these stories are elaborations and beautiful elaborations on
the exorcism, like the Gerysen Dmoniac. Sorry. No, I don't like the Gerysen Dmoniac.
No, I hadn't thought about that.
Well, I was picking up on how you were approaching this literary idea. And I said,
let me see if there's a connection here. Because the first thing I thought,
when I saw that the Cerberus was being taken to Hades, of course, it's strange that,
you know, obviously in the Mount of Transfiguration, he's not taking them to Hades. He's taken them
on a mountain. But it is interesting, either you could play the role of, and this one didn't work
as good as Peter, James, and John coming, but you had Jesus, Moses, and Elijah, which is three as well.
So right. But what confused me is in the narrative, Hercules is separated from
three headed beasts. So I don't know how meticulous, but I thought about the three,
and I thought about the three heads, and I said, hmm, maybe there's something there as well. Maybe
they just had to have three characters come with him because there's a three headed beast.
I don't know. But I did like the idea that what was the name of the god that got Hercules possessed?
Well, Hera is always jealous of Heracles because her husband Zeus slept with Lita to
Elkmeni in order to sire Heracles. So she was always after him. And she sent
a demon called Lyssa, namely madness, to strike him dead, to strike him mad.
Wow. Okay. Yeah. And that's, let me, let me come back to your imagination. You're
thinking about Cerberus and the three and so on. Please. Because I think it's important.
And here I want to talk about what it means to be left brain and right brain,
and how to manage that. Your imagination, the right brain piece of it, is really important.
And I think so many readers of the Bible are not imaginative, and they don't understand the
playfulness of this literature. So you're really to be recommended on the imagination piece.
Now, of course, imagination also needs to be disciplined. So that's the left brain.
And so the question is, then, what kind of criteria can we use to make sure that we're not,
that our imagination is really saying something about the text, and not something about what we
had for breakfast, or last night drinking, or something like that. So that actually is not
a bad segue to the criteria of memesis criticism. Because it's one thing to have
a rich imagination, as clearly you do. But it's quite another to kind of put that inside into the
bank. Absolutely. And how do we, how do we discipline that? Now, the criteria are not
foolproof litmus. They're rather considerations that if you didn't have any of those criteria
met, then you don't have memesis. But you don't have to have all of them. Right. And so they're
actually, I think, intuitive. Is it okay to talk about the criteria now, then?
Yeah, yeah, if you'd like. Yeah. And I was going to say, I have the book up. You have seven that
you, you are, you know, trying to do the left brain, like these are rules we should stick with.
Not saying there's stuff that doesn't go outside of this. That's right. Be certain. And I think
that's what you're trying to say is, look, guys, we can be imaginative, we can guess, like I just
did with Cerberus. Okay. It's a fun exercise, but you do more than that in this book. I want
everyone to know this is not just a playful, imaginary thing. This, you're literally taking
literary construction. What do you want to go ahead and take over? Do you want me to read off
some of these criteria or go ahead? Okay. So here are the criteria of when we're approaching
memesis criticism. So number one, the criterion of accessibility pertains to the likelihood
that the author of the later text had access to the putative model. So would it be in, in simple
terms, is this text something that people have? Is this something that they probably were reading
or were influenced by possibly? Right. Let me give you an analogy for the Hebrew Bible. Okay. If I
were to say that this is an imitation of Deuteronomy or the Psalter, that would be, it
magnificently satisfies the, the, this criterion of accessibility, because we have a Qumran,
so many copies of Deuteronomy and the Psalter. If we were to say that this is an allusion to Amos
or Joel, we would have a big problem because those texts were not widely known in antiquity and
as far as we know, they were never imitated. So the same thing happens with the Greco-Roman world.
If we have certain texts that are widespread and used in education, they're more likely to be appealed
to in a, in a text and transformed than something that is scarcely known. This is one of the
beefs I have with my field. No Greek texts were more widely used in education or available in
antiquity than the Homeric epics. Let me give you an example. We have 800 copies or fragments of copies
of the Homeric epics between 2200 B.C.D. and 2200 A.D. For the same period for the Septuagint,
the Jewish Bible, total, we have five fragments and they're only fragments. We don't have a complete
text. So if we want to know what was available in the ancient world, that's what it was. What Latin
texts was, what was widely used, Virgil's and Nied. In the Anchor Bible volumes, yep, in the Anchor Bible
fix volumes. You have no entry for Homer, no entry for Euripides, no entry for Greek poetry,
no entry for Latin poetry, no entry for Aeneas, and the Aeneid is the most important
the foundational document for the Roman Empire. Think of it and it's written in 19, it was circulated
already before the death of Jesus. It was widespread. We have a copy of it in the backpack of a Roman
soldier who was sacking Jerusalem. So this is how important these texts were, but in the discipline
they are invisible. One more example, we have at the end of the Nestle said,
2728, we have a big index of ancient citations. We have 3000 related to the Bible.
We have five related to Greek literature, only two from poetry. It is an intentional amnesia
of the field and it's got to change. This is the paradigm shift that I'm hoping can happen. We have
been really delinquent in paying attention to the cultural literary world of the New Testament.
I love how you put that because I've even told people, and this is off this topic particularly,
but I've thought to myself, I suspect if you go back in time to the Osiris myths,
I wonder how much we've really lost, how widespread, because Egypt had such influence on so many
cultures and so many surrounding places and even the Canaanites. You name it, I suspect,
even though there were no books written, I wonder if there were text or even tablets or the clay
tablets and stuff that may be widespread more than what we obviously have. We have a lack of
evidence, but I suspect it was probably widespread to them in some sense or the Sumerian myths. Who
knows how much evidence we've lost, but we have evidence of how important these things are in the
time, which is so important with your step one here, in the time, which I hear a lot of people
when they debate, which is an interesting one, on dying and rising God comparisons. I do think
there are some, but what they do is they go, what was contemporaneous? You can't use Osiris,
that's 2000-year-old story, how relevant was the Osiris mythology in the first century? Dr. Price
suggests very relevant in many ways, especially in mystery schools. Depending on who you talk to,
you can't get around what you're saying here about these Greek texts and then looking at the
Gospels, which people like to train, completely hone in on the Jewishness of them. They literally
try to remove them like they're unique and special in such a way that they are not tampered with by
any outside influence, other than this is just a continuity of the Old Testament. I'm like,
you guys should read this book. You want me to give them number two? Yeah.
Analogy, likewise, pertains to the popularity of the target. It seeks to know if other authors
imitated the same proposed literary model. Can you elaborate? Yeah, well, with Homer,
we know people were imitating it all the time, including Virgil, whom I mentioned before in the
Aeneid, but we have other examples, Lucian of Samasata, and there really is all over the place,
whereas some other models that have been proposed as intertext are not nearly as popular
as memetic targets. Simple, I agree. And what he's suggesting here is that the Gospels are another
one. All right. The synoptics, for sure. Density, simply stated, and also sorry, let me phrase that,
even John. Well, you've got that, the Dionysian Gospel there, so gotta get that book. Density,
simply stated, the more parallels one can posit between two texts, the stronger the case that
they issue from a literary connection. And this is where I guess that people like to say,
parallelomania, you're just trying to put stuff there. And no, no, read the book. I think it's
important because the charts, you don't just say it in literary format, and you don't just show it
in paragraph format by explaining, you finally go to the end of the, in case you're like me, here's
dummies, 101 for me. It's like, here you go, right? Here's the passage, here's the passage,
and you get the gist. And well, I would say that there is a danger to parallelomania.
Yes. There's also a danger to parallelophobia. Oh, man, please, please. I hope people can find,
I guess, a balance there. And I don't think you did that in this book. I think there were cases
that weren't as strong as others maybe, but there were some that it was so obvious the light bulb
went off and I just smiled. I was like, ah, that's so beautiful, like how they did that. That was
such a good, clever trick. The criterion number four, the criterion of order examines the relative
sequencing of similarities in the two works. If parallels appear in the same order, the case
strengthens for a genetic connection. I think everybody kind of gets the gist of that is,
you know, if Jesus walks up a hill and then Odysseus walks up a hill, he yells at a woman
named, named far and wide, let's just say, and Odysseus yells at a woman and says,
you will go far and wide with this message or something. You see sequential order to this
parallel, it's obvious it strengthens. And you do that a lot in the whole, actually the whole book
does that, you know, showing there's a sequence in the narrative. But one thing I will say for
anyone who's, you know, skeptical of this position, and maybe you can elaborate on this for this step
number four, is as much as the actual narrative itself in that area is sequential, it's not like
Matthew or Mark chapter one, you know, all the way to the end is literally the Odysseus story in
chapter one, all the way to the end of that book, they're out of order in that sense, correct?
Exactly. Yep. So they pick and choose where they, they chose to use their stuff, just like they did
with the Heraclius narrative. And just like Virgil does with the Aeneid,
yeah, he's not sequential for the episodes. Yeah. See, Aeneid, I don't think that needs to be,
that's, but I will say this before we move on, that is the kind of evidence that Christians
will demand of us, they will go, oh, nope, sorry, nice try, buckaroo, you got to prove that it's,
and I'm like, well, you know, I guess they're waiting for me to find a Greek, you know,
book that just says, you know, hi, we're borrowing from, you know, like, or something that says it,
like it comes down and makes it easy. Well, how much fun would that be? It would be fun.
Five, a distinctive trait is anything unusual in both the targeted model and the proposed
borrower that links the two into a special relationship. Can you give us something on that?
Yes, I mean, these authors in some cases were disguising their limitations. But if they are
theologically or religiously significant, they want the reader to know that they're rewriting
the antecedent. And these are sometimes called medic flags, and not just by me, but where authors
no longer are occulting their relationship to an anteced text, but they're advertising it.
And they do so with special vocabulary. They often do it with significant names. They sometimes do
it with shared geographical locations. And so these distinctive traits are quite important.
Now, you talked about our friends, evangelical defenders of the faith and so on,
would say, well, why, why is there so much different vocabulary? Because the Greek of the
New Testament and the Greek of Homer is so different. If we were able to see the analogies,
we'd actually see that if we were able to make transforms from Homeric Greek into Quaint Negric,
we'd see many more parallels. And I tried to do some of that in my more esoteric work where I
deal with the Greek text and so on. So there's more of that. But it's very much like reading a novel
or going to a movie and you see something that evokes Star Trek or something that you're, you
know, is the cultural icon and gives you pleasure. Then it wouldn't be as much pleasure if somebody
said, oh, remember Star Trek? So I was going to say, can you give us one example, like an example
of it that you go into here? Obviously, you do some of this in your book. Can you give us one
example of that with Jesus and then the Homeric epic? Let me give you an example in the Acts of
the Apostles, which is really quite clear. There's a young man named Eutychus who is listening to Paul
preach. He falls asleep. He falls and dies. But his soul stays in him. Paul goes back and
preaches until morning and then leaves. And as he's leaving, people get Eutychus come up alive.
There's a story in Homer about an El Peanor, who's a young man who gets drunk at Circe's
home. Falls, he's trying to sleep off his stupor on her roof, falls and breaks his neck and dies,
goes and meets Odysseus in the netherworld. And Odysseus agrees to go back and to bury his body
on a prize at dawn. And Odysseus calls him, Deuston this El Peanor, unfortunate El Peanor,
because he survives the Trojan War and then dies on a drunk. What does the name Eutychus mean?
It means lucky. Eutychus in Greek means lucky. He's lucky because he dies in the presence
of Paul. Whereas El Peanor, and by the way, his name means want to be a man. He hopes to
be a man, but he's not. He's a weakling. Those are things that would just shout out to you.
Virgil imitates that story three times in the Indian. So that would be, it's outside of the
Gospels, but it's a very good example of this advertised nemesis. Yeah, I mean, Dr. Price recently
had him on and he kind of, he actually read from, I believe it was Euripides the Bacchai,
I don't know if you're pronouncing that right, Bacchai or Bacchai. He was reading directly from
Dionysus and referencing it to the Acts of the Apostles as well as Second Maccabees that was
used in the Acts of the Apostles. So there's more than one source, of course. These guys are using
many sources, very clever, but I like what you said there. That's interesting. We'll go to step five or
yeah, no, six. Interpretability assesses what, if anything, might be gained by viewing one text
as a debtor to another. As often as not, ancient authors emulated their antecedents to rival them,
whether in style, philosophical adequacy, persuasiveness, or religious perspective.
Yeah, sometimes you can't tell why an author would do it. Maybe they were just looking for a
good story, but in so many cases, Jesus comes off smelling a lot better than Heracles or Odysseus
and so on, so that there's a theological advantage to portraying Jesus in a more positive light.
That's all. And on that note, I have to mention your grandson that you're reading this to and
paralleling him, even though they did a fine job of showing that Jesus is a better version,
it's still funny that he thinks that the Greek stories are better because it's like, yeah,
they might have tried to one up, but at the cost of maybe some of the narrative not quite being as
more dramatic in a lot of different ways. So you probably lose some sense of interesting
things that the original authors had for the Gospels to pretty much probably sacrifice some of that
at the cost of, well, we got to have our Messiah, our Jesus, be the one. He's got to be the chance.
Let me continue that discussion, though. Please, please. Actually, my son, not my grandson. Oh,
I'm sorry, I'm sorry. With my son. And then I said, but which story is a better one to live by?
The Bible story or the Homeric story? And he said the Bible story. Yeah. So that's what the
authors wanted. They wanted to say it's much better to be compassionate and not to kill your
opponents than it is to kill them or to be duplicitous or whatever. So the authors want
the reader to see Jesus as a morally superior hero than the Greek, but you can't compete with the
Greeks, even in antiquity, authors knew they couldn't compete. Well, you came out of the book
toward the end. You did an interesting thing talking about you discussed Romulus and his
Ascension to Jesus Ascension, okay, and showing an interesting parallel there, which I find
fascinating. And I've had other guys come on my show. There are other authors that bring some
fascinating things about how Rome was about peace, mercy, and also the idea that forgiving
your enemies. Julius Caesar had an interesting aspect. And so this does not pertain to this book
particularly, but it's interesting if one wants to think maybe some of these rules might apply here
where they do have a mimic, you know, if there is some type of synchronistic ideas going on or
synchronicities, they're trying to syncretize the cultures maybe in some way in these books,
the Gospels, or in the narrative of the New Testament, they could be using something from
maybe Julius Caesar's or the Romans' ideas because they're doing it with the Greeks for sure
on the Caesar's. Just just throwing it out there. No, no, you can see this in Luke's infancy narrative.
The shepherds are addressed by a heavenly army of angels who pronounce pox on all of goodwill.
And this is an image that is borrowed from the Roman world where you have an army that is
trying to give pox. When Augustine four centuries later is, well three centuries after Luke is
writing his city of God, he makes an argument that the Christian movement better exemplified the
values of the Roman Empire than the Roman Empire did because it actually did bring peace. It did
love its enemies. And so the rhetoric of empire, such as you find in Virgil, before Augustine is
better satisfied by members of the kingdom of God. I'll cut that. All right. All right. Number seven.
Let me read before that. You said, I applied these six criteria in my previous publications,
the Gospels and Homer and Luke and Virgil employ yet another that pertains primarily to the Gospel
narratives and that is seven. Often Greek readers prior to 1000 CE were aware of affinities between
New Testament narratives and their putative classical Greek models such as ancient and Byzantine
recognitions often suggest imitations in the original composition of the Gospels, which I think
you already mentioned. Yes. These Byzantine intellectuals were not embarrassed about extending
the biblical narrative by imitating Homer or Euripides on their own. These are the Homeric
Antonis. These are the three editions, the Gospel and Nicodemus. They include the Christus Potians,
which is a little after 1000. And certainly the paraphrase of the Gospel of John by known as
a Panopolis. So this enterprise of interpreting the Gospels against Greek poetry and its homers
and its mythologies is not unorthodox and it's not absent in the history of interpretation.
It's just absent in the history of interpretation in the West, including Europe and North America now.
That makes me want to go back and really read and find out more about some of these differences
between the churches because I think we have the Eastern Orthodox and then we had the Roman
Catholics. And I think there's a huge difference or am I mistaken in terms of understanding these
two different trains of thought that broke off when the Empire split here? Do you think that
you're saying the Eastern side took more of this and the Western side is
taking a different approach? And we certainly can understand it. So for example in the West,
the Aeneid became very important. It was written in Latin. The Church Fathers were in the West were
Latin. And you can see it in Dante's Inferno, where in fact Virgil initiates the visit to
the Netherworld. He's the guide. And so you're much more likely to find influence of Latin poetry
than you are Greek poetry simply because that was the lingua franca of the West. Whereas in the
East they were much more interested in Homer and Euripides. Anyone who's watching has made it this
far. Get the book. It's a really good book. In the examples, I almost feel like we're going to cover
the whole book by the time we get done with this episode. And I'm not really, but there's so many
stories here that parallel. And maybe we can give a few examples prior to ending this discussion
just for our audience. Okay. I'm afraid I'm running out of battery. Oh, are you? So let's take one and
then let's do this again. So with that being said, ladies and gentlemen, check out the description.
Get these books for sure. And be on the lookout for another future podcast where we will go into
more information on these other books. And thank you for joining me. Well, I think your listeners
should know that your first name in Hebrew means path. And I think you're setting us on a path
of exploration. Thanks, Derek. Thank you so much. Don't forget, ladies and gentlemen, we are MythVision.
