There are hundreds of videos that haven't been launched on YouTube on
Patreon. Make sure you guys join the Patreon to help us grow. We are MythVision. Welcome
back to MythVision Podcast. Your host, Derek Lambert. We're going back into early history
of Mormonism and the insanity of Joseph Smith's life, the growing of this cult,
this polygamous cult that's into some, I guess you say, strange things for these times,
especially in America. There's a growing number of people who are becoming violent in this cult,
and someone might be president very soon. With that being said, let me bring our guest on.
I have Bryce Blankenegel, the host of Naked Mormonism Podcast. He is naked in case you're
wondering. Thank you for joining us, brother. Absolutely. Thanks for bringing me back.
And we have David Fitzgerald. David Fitzgerald's been around. He's came on. He's got a couple
different books nailed, all the good stuff. But the complete heretics guide to Western
religion book one, the Mormons, is the one you definitely want to get your hands on pertaining
to this topic. I would ask that all of you go down in the description of this video before we
get started, help these guys out, become a patron. Is it still free to join your Patreon, Bryce?
It is still free until I reboot the podcast, and that's going to come once I have a working
manuscript of the book. Awesome. Ladies and gentlemen, go show them some love. You can join
for very little coffee. It's like a coffee a month once it actually kicks in for both of these
guys. And Dave has one as well. He's trying to grow one. He is kind of the Flintstones. He's kind
of stuck in the past, but if it weren't for his loved one, the wonderful wife that he has, the
techie, he probably wouldn't have a patron either, but you guys could help him out. So I really
appreciate that. I'm going to be different. This is a new platform, of course, set up for what
we're doing on the show. I'm going to be able to listen to you guys now that Dave's Internet is
up to speed. And I can't wait to where we go. So please take us off.
We took a little break from our recording schedule for holidays and for January. So we may cover
some ground that has already been covered, or we may skip some things that are necessary
context information. So hopefully the viewers are willing to bear with us for a bit. Last
I recall us talking about was the Council of 50 being started up. You know, Joseph Smith
establishing his theocratic government that would replace the American government once he was able
to overthrow the government or to be elected president. There's there's a lot of underlying
political machinations that are going on. And there's also a lot of dissent from within the
church within Nauvoo that Joseph Smith and his cronies are trying to deal with and trying to keep
a lid on such that they can still keep the community under their control. And so in a nutshell,
we're in about 1844, the last year of last half year really of Joseph Smith's life. And things
are reaching the boiling point where it's just spinning and spinning, spinning out of control.
And there's no putting the brakes on at this point. There's no stopping it. It's just what's
going to happen is going to happen. I do want to point out that it's very clear that the
leadership understood that polygamy was going to be one of the wedge issues in the community once
once the evidence of it was so preponderant that they could no longer deny that it was going on.
They knew that that was going to cause a lot of fracturing within the community,
in addition to a lot of scrutiny from the outside. So there were disagreements about how to proceed
forward with continuing to practice polygamy and continuing to expand this among the most
insular groups. Right. And the leadership was just as divided as the outer group was.
Absolutely. Those who were even aware that it was that was a real thing because all this time
it's been publicly and privately and from the path the the pulpit denied that it's not a thing.
So everybody knows it is. So let me get this straight. This guy is dealing with internal
affairs, external affairs that are dealing with polygamy, as well as owing people money.
He still has the Missouri Mormon war that took place constantly haunting him. He's got Porter
Rockwell recently escaping prison and surviving somehow making it home looking like a caveman.
He's now in charge of the bar, which is I don't know if you'd have a guy like that in charge of
your alcohol. And then he has a secret place you said that's being built under the staircase
for his little private one-on-one session with his spirit wives and whatnot. Yeah. When you said
his internal affairs, affairs is exactly the right word to be using in this context. Certainly.
And he's running for president at this moment, too. That's true. And there's there's even
disagreements about who is, you know, his vice president, who his running mate's going to be,
because he sought a couple of high-profile people to be his running mates. He was rejected by a
few of them. And then one of them he sent and figured out that person was actually born in
Ireland, so therefore not eligible to be vice president. And he retracted the offer only to
later find out that the person was actually an American citizen and he didn't need to retract it.
It's a huge mess. It's a chaotic mess. And the thing is, I don't know. I feel like a lot of us
have become familiar with like outrage fatigue and like the constant overbearing feeling that you
get from watching scandal after scandal take place and not having any ability to stop it or
control it or do anything about it or hold anybody accountable. Well, there are certain people who
benefit from creating that scandal and that outrage fatigue. And if you're able to cultivate that and
keep that at just a rolling boil for long enough, then when you hit the population with something
really crazy like we're going to take over the country, they're much more receptive to it. They're
less resilient. You have worn the people down. You are a rough stone rolling forth and rounding
off the edges, right? And that's a Joseph Smith quote, rough stone rolling. So trying to get the
people conditioned to become soldiers, to become people who would give anything and everything
to the church takes a long time and it takes a lot of process. And in order to wear them down,
they keep this outrage machine of building power, building steam. And anytime that they are called
a scrutiny or anytime somebody stands up and says, Hey, something's wrong here. They're an enemy of
the gospel, right? They are they are an adversary. They need to be put out of the way. So that has
a way of hyper radicalizing the followers and getting them very, very much on the inside and
willing to do anything that Joseph Smith wants. Big problem with it though is Joseph Smith,
he was a bad businessman. He was really bad at business and you need to be a good businessman
if you're going to attempt to overthrow the country. So the people who work with him who are
good businessmen in the Quorum of Apostles, they're not quite as radical as Joseph Smith. They're
smarter. You're talking about 18 something, right? You're not talking about 2020, are you? Weird,
right? Everything goes around, comes around, but yes. Yeah. But like these people are Joe's
handlers, right? And you have Brigham Young, you have William Wines Phelps, you have William Clayton.
You have these guys who are on the polygamy in group who are super into it, who are trying to
keep Joseph Smith controlled and contained until the time is right. But Joseph Smith himself is a
very radical revolutionary. He wants to implement his plans without knowing all of the constituent
pieces that go into the plans. So there's this tension that's building even among Joseph Smith
and his trusted acolytes of what the next step is, how to go about this. And then Joe just kind of
declares, I'm running for president and I'm going to establish the government, the council of 50,
and then it's like any plans that they had, it's like, all right, well, now we have to change
everything because that's the new plan because Joe said so. Yeah. And it's a new country. So it
doesn't sound quite as crazy back then as it would now. I mean, everything is kind of still up for
grabs. Like you said, state governors are pretty much running their own fiefdoms at this point.
So it's not inconceivable that the Naboo militia could become, you know, the United States of Mormonism.
Right. It's also notable that there weren't any federal militias, right? So in order for the
federal government to raise militias, they need to petition states governors who would then raise
up militias from their various states, who would then basically elect a commander who would oversee
those various militia divisions. So there isn't, if a rebel army is able to gather enough steam
and enough force behind it, it's up to the state's governors to quell that rebellion. Well, at this
time, Joseph Smith's army, his personal army, the Naboo Legion is bigger than the state militia
of Illinois, bigger than the militia of Illinois and Missouri combined. He's a true threat, right?
This is a serious, dangerous threat. But, you know, like you said, David, like this is Western
expansion. Everything is up for grabs right now. And there are disagreements going on in politics
right now about the way that American expansionism is going to run, right? I mean, the battle of
the Alamo was back in 1836. You know, that was, you know, not even 10 years before this, the question
of like what to do with Texas, the Republic of Texas. We still haven't had the Mexican-American
warrior, Oregon territory and expansion into Canada, what California looks like and how big
California is. Like, there are some really big questions that the politicians of the country
are facing in 1844. And in all of this, Joe has some of his boys planted in Washington, DC, working
with the politicians there and they're relaying information back and forth to Joseph Smith and
his boys back in Naboo. And one of these people was Stephen A. Douglas, the same Stephen A. Douglas
who was the running opponent to Abraham Lincoln. Stephen A. Douglas was a friend of the Mormons,
very, very good friend of the Mormons. He had done all sorts of favors for them as a circuit
judge before he was elected to Congress. And he, once he was in Congress, he was a very
friendly to the Mormons. What he was able to do was he got a copy of John C. Fremont's
excursion notes and the maps that Fremont drew, which were an extremely rare commodity at this
time. And they were only in the Library of Congress because it was a government-funded
expedition to map out the western half of the nation, everything west of the Mississippi.
John Fremont, these Fremont maps were basically smuggled to the Mormons with the help of Stephen
A. Douglas who took them from the Library of Congress. Wow. And these were all set back to
Naboo, which was then allowed at the Mormon leadership there to plan out their Western
expansion. Because the grand plan was Naboo would be the hub for true Western expansion.
It would be the headquarters that would launch a European settlement all the way to the West Coast.
It's wild to think that they had enough political power that we could have had a civil war 20 years
earlier between the Mormons and the American forces. And that's an important point too, that
Naboo and what Joe was doing in Naboo was about 20 years ahead of its time. And that's with these
massive political forces with civil war and the discrimination about slavery
and Western expansion. But in addition to that industrialization,
Naboo was just barely, barely too early to reap the benefits of industrialization. Now,
Chicago at this time was beginning to industrialize. So there was a railroad that was connected
to Chicago in I think 1842 or 43. I read it a long time ago. I'm trying to remember from a while
back. But it was very early on and that caused Chicago to rapidly grow and rapidly expand.
Well, Naboo in 1844 is more than twice the size of Chicago. Think about that. Wow. So if Naboo was
able to industrialize the way that Chicago industrialized, Naboo would be a Chicago today.
But because the Mormons were just a little bit ahead of their schedule, a little ahead of
industrialization, they weren't able to build the factories and to build the manufacturing
districts and to build everything to actually become another Chicago. And something occurs to
me just now too. In a way, Mormonism did benefit from industrialization because all the people
who were kicked out from industrialization in Britain, in America, they flocked to Mormonism
because they actively recruited from them. But so they had this peasant population because Joseph
Smith, Mormon leadership was constantly preying on their own people. And there were not enough
leaders with good business sense like William Law and all the rest because they were too busy
being parasites to their flock. Absolutely. And to add into more of the factors that's also
making Mormonism very dangerous, in many ways, the entire economy is based on debt,
but the Mormons in many ways are self-sufficient. They have enough crops in the lands outlying
Naboo to sustain themselves. And if that doesn't work, then they can raid and pillage the local
towns because the Mormon settlements outnumber the non-Mormon settlements. And they've done it
before. Why not again? So that all happened in Missouri. Well, let's make Illinois, Missouri
again. So in addition to this, my shotgun is a Browning shotgun. Will that Browning,
Jonathan Browning, his dad got his start in Naboo. So John Browning Sr., I believe it is,
had a gun shop in Naboo. And I want one so bad, these early Browning guns, some of these early
Browning guns have a metal plaque on them that says holiness to the Lord, which is a Mormon phrase
that's inscribed on all the temples. I want one of those guns so bad. I want one so bad, so bad.
They're extremely rare, extremely collectible, but they're really great. But those are some of
the Browning's earliest guns is those holiness to the Lord and Naboo Legion guns. So they have
their own gunsmith. They have enough of their own crops. They have their own like little small
manufacturing districts. They have a lot of things to build, truly a magnificent and prosperous city.
They just need the time for all of these early efforts to actually gain a foothold and to actually
flourish. They didn't have enough time. That's why Naboo is a city that nobody knows about today.
If they were allowed more time, if the Battle of Naboo had never happened, then
all the ifs, all the ifs, the Mormons never would have settled to Utah and who knows what
American history would look like. So so much hinges on this time.
I can't even imagine just the idea of monogamy, what that would look like in America. Just that
alone, like just the idea. You mean polygamy? No, that's what I mean. Like the minority view
might end up being monogamy. You know what I mean? Like, you know how many guys would be having two
and three wives? I mean, you know what I'm saying? There's just no telling. But they had religious,
I'm glad there's a secular slant today, whereas the religious stuff, I mean, we see how that works
in some of these FLDS cults and stuff. Not pretty. Very scary. Yeah. By far, the scariest
parts I talk about in my book on the Mormons is the stuff that's happening right now today
in places like Arizona and southern Utah. I also want to point out that there's also the
very much the popular view that it's like, oh, polygamy is like a dangerous cult and Warren
Jeffs is a horrible person, so on and so forth. That's also, it's painted to us that's kind of
like the majority of these interactions are that most of these patriarchs are just like Warren
Jeffs with 50 wives and they're evil and they're monsters. And that's just not the case. Yeah,
exactly. Like almost all polygamous marriages. Like I have a number of friends who are like
Mormon polygamists, right? Like most of the marriages are really not that different than
like my marriage to my partner. They're not that different. It's just they're normal. It looks a
little bit different than our normal and that's just fine. But it does cultivate people like
a Warren Jeffs or like a Joseph Smith being tyrants. This is the thing. And for what it's worth,
all those soccer moms and provo who have their sister wife fair play, if it works for you,
I'm all for it. That's all. I'm considering going in the cult, you know, I am just
Good luck. Good luck. But on the flip side, the Taliban level of those, you know, Jeff
FLDS, that's some scary ass stuff going on. Yeah. And it's also interesting too,
because you know, Jeffs, and I've seen this firsthand, right? Like Jeffs is locked up
right now and he has a contingent of people who are following him. But in the Twin Cities,
Colorado City, Arizona, and Short Creek, there is Short Creek, Hilldale,
Hilldale, Utah, that's the other town. There's a power vacuum there. It's not good. There is a
power vacuum there that will suck somebody up into it. And that's like it's important to recognize
how similar that is to Nauvoo in 1844 after the assassination of Joseph and Hiram Smith, right?
The power vacuum was there and it required people to step up into the power vacuum. And that is
very much the same thing is going on in Short Creek right now. And I can't wait for us to get
to that because the things that, the people that stepped up to become the next Joseph Smith,
that kills me. It's wild. It's wild. It's great. Let me recap. I was going to recap real quick
to give people that are watching the refreshment of what we have. We have, Joseph Smith is running,
they're trying to arrest him. They do arrest him. They're met with potential force and they're
arrested. The arrestees are arrested and they're down here going, Hey, man, look, no, you're going
to join us for dinner there, buddy. And they end up pretty much getting the threat like back off,
you know, like you're not going to have any say over us here in Nauvoo. They wrote their own laws
protecting themselves and some idiot from above just signed off and didn't realize what they did
till probably it's too late. And they're not allowed to arrest him in Nauvoo. They pretty much
wrote another law of his own to protect him. These guys are somewhere running off trying to get
support to get this guy taken down because they know he's no joke. And in that picture that you
showed us with him with his sword holding his sword out, and they're in the crowds on their
horses, probably with some dirty underwear, they ship their pants. Okay. If you're wondering what
that means. I know. And there's a whole legion of ready to die or kill in the name of the Lord
right here. That's coming. And you just cannot, you cannot get that out of your head. So just be
ready. He's in God mode, though, right now. That's literally what he's in. He's in God mode. Nobody
can touch it. Yep. Yep. Yeah. So, so let's once again, reiterate the fracture divide. We have
the pro polygamy movement is Joseph Smith, Brigham Young, William Clayton,
Heber Kimball, and the guys who have ended up all going out to Utah. The anti polygamous movement
within the church leadership are primarily led by the fosters, the Higby's and the Laws.
All guys who Joseph Smith tried to steal their wives from incidentally.
More than likely, yes. At least on some of them. Also with the Higby brothers, they suspected that
Joe had their dad murdered, right? Like these guys didn't like Joe for a couple of years, right?
And then the fosters like not Robert. So there's Robert Foster, and then I can't remember his
brother. Robert Foster's brother pulled a pistol on Joseph Smith and broad daylight tried to shoot
him. And Porter Rockwell knocked the pistol out of the guy's hand. So like these guys are ready
to kill him. They are confronting him on the street when he's confronting them.
And the tension is growing among these groups. And yeah, I was just gonna say, I was just reading
a story about Robert Foster coming home from one of his missionary journeys, comes home,
and there's the prophet having dinner with his wife. And yes, it's like, Oh, what's this all about?
He pulls a gun and says, All right, what's going on? And tell me. And she's not saying anything.
He gives her a gun says either you shoot or I'm gonna shoot. And he's like, Whoa.
And he's like, Yeah, he he was giving me the whole spiritual wife talking, you know, yeah.
So these are the kinds of stories that are going on behind the scenes all the time at this point.
Isn't the law brothers now the Brutus or Judas prophecy, there's like a prophecy going around
saying you will be the ones who will betray him or something. That's right. Yes. So in my podcast,
I called him William Brutus Marx, William Judas law, because there's William Marx and William
Law. And these guys are the Judas and Brutus that Joseph Smith doesn't name, but he alludes to and
everybody's like, Oh, who's the Judas who's going to betray the prophets. So the people are hyped up
and and they're they're on edge looking for who the traitor is, who's going to get the prophet
killed, right, who's going to betray him, kiss him on the cheek. So that, you know, the the
population of Mormons also is becoming kind of hostile to these guys as well, because Joe is
sometimes naming them. But he's also holding court councils for against these guys, high council,
disciplinary councils against them. And they're they're they're emerging as public figures who
are antagonistic, but who believe in the church, right, who are who are very much into the Book of
Mormon and into the gospel and into everything that Joe says. They just think that Joe is a problem.
Exactly. That's a that's an important distinction makes it they don't think he's a false prophet.
They think he's a fallen prophet. Yes, he's a real prophet, but he's he's backsliding. He's not
doing what the Lord wants, but he's the real deal. They still despite everything that's happening,
they still, you know, his financial shader, he is his affairs is trying to steal their very
own wives. They still think he's a prophet. Yeah. Oh, my gosh. I just it just shows you
psychologically. That's it. I don't want to go. I don't even want to go. I just want to say,
just think about that for a second. Just think about that. And it's still alive and well today,
of course. So but by the same token, it's getting to the point where even though even with that in
mind, they are still opposing him and like the trials that Bryce is looking to like for the
fosters, their Joseph Smith is getting ready to put them on trial for apostasy, whatnot. And
then he finds out, oh, they're gathering their witnesses and they're going to turn it into an
indictment of him. So it becomes a secret trial then. Yes. So things are really neck and neck
right now between. Yeah, it's very, very unstable right now. And Joe is also manipulating the markets
because these guys, all of them own property and own businesses. Wilson law notably basically
owned the wharf where ships would dock offload and load passengers and cargo. And they would
have to obviously pay him the docking fees. So that was money that he was taking in that Joe
obviously wanted. But what Joe did to try and ice these guys out is basically told all the Mormons
that you don't do any business with the laws or the fosters or the Higbees. And that forces them to
well, okay, so there's a private communication between William and Wilson, these brothers.
William says that we need to get out. We need to form an exit strategy. This is right after Joe
had tried to have his Danites murder William Law. And he said, we need to sell our property. We need
to get rid of our property and get out of Nauvoo. It's too dangerous. But Joe commanded that nobody
is to transact any business with these guys. So he was able to freeze all of their assets and they
weren't able to cash out and leave town and do anything. So that in many ways, that's one of
the primary factors that caused them to purchase a printing press and have it shipped into town.
And it was brought into town. I think it's in Joe's journal. He has William Clayton write this
for him that an apostate press arrived in Nauvoo. And I think it was on May 6, 1844.
And this printing press went to a shop that was owned by William Law. And from this brand new
printing press, they published the front piece for the Nauvoo Expositor, which was basically an
announcement that, hey, in a month, we're going to publish the first of our weekly periodicals.
It's going to be called the Nauvoo Expositor. And in it, I have a quote pulled from this, right?
It says, we are earnestly seeking to explode the vicious principles of Joseph Smith and those who
practice the same abominations and hordes, which we verily know are not accordant and
consonant with the principles of Jesus Christ and the apostles. And for that purpose, and with that
end in view, with an eye single to the glory of God, we have dared to gird on the armor. And with God
at our head, we most solemnly and sincerely declare that the sword of truth shall not depart from the
thigh, nor the buckler from the arm until we can enjoy these glorious privileges, which nature's
God and our country's laws have guaranteed to us freedom of speech, the liberty of the press,
and the right to worship God as Seamus, the Seameth us good. And then it goes on to talk.
Yeah. And then it goes on to talk about how we know that we're in danger and we're really stupid
for doing this, but we're going to do it anyway. And part of their exit strategy by this point
is we're going to start our own splinter church, our reformed Latter-day Saints church.
Called the true church of Jesus Christ, the Latter-day Saints.
You know what's so funny about this is they'll probably have kids that'll,
I'm just giving you an example, they probably won't, I want to see the history, but this is how
things work. They're going to have kids, the kids going to hate their dad, they're going to break
off. Well, we're going to have the real true church, you know, like, and it just, it's just never
ends, man. You're not wrong. Just guess how many Latter-day Saints spin off splinter groups that
we know of today. Do you want me to guess? Yeah, just rough guess. Because you got the church,
you've got the fundamentalist church, you've got the reformed ones. I'll say like,
maybe 20? I don't know, Maaman High, I guess.
Multiply that by 10 and you're in the ballpark. They're about 200 splinter groups that we know of.
The guy, Stephen Shields, who wrote that, that's what is it, it's not scattering the saints. Well,
maybe that was it where he made that estimation of 200. He gave a presentation at Sunstone a
couple of years ago discussing the schism crisis and he said, well, I need to update my book because
by my estimations now it's closer to 400. Yeah, and it's like these things crop up all over the
place, right? And especially in the fundamentalist groups who may or may not practice polygamy,
one person will have a disagreement with the prophet and then they'll break off and start their
own and it's not very often documented. They very little of it ever like reaches the surface.
And what's part of the problem with tracking this is that some of these groups are no bigger than a
single family. And some of them are no better than a criminal gang and they don't always like
each other and it gets ugly even today, at least in the late 80s and 90s. I'm sure it hasn't changed
now since, yeah. Well, you stirred the hornet's nest. So now what, you know, I want to know.
Are you listening? The stuff writes itself. Yeah, what's happened to these guys? I mean,
obviously they did something. William Law puts himself as the leader of this new church, of this
true church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, right? And what he does is he sets out the tenets
of his new religion. And basically his new religion is we believe in everything that
Joseph Smith says except for polygamy. And better yet, if you want to join our church,
we're going to honor your priesthood certificates from Joseph's church and you'll still have our
priesthood when you come to our church. So they basically created a membership transfer program
from Joseph's church to this church. And a part of this was calling out the grievances that Joseph
Smith has caused people. And in their circular, in their teaser, in their pamphlet for the
novel expositor, they even petitioned the people asking for them to tell their stories,
to give them the evidence of the villainy of Joseph Smith so that they can make a proper
exposure of this and call him to repentance. That's really what the impetus behind this was,
is calling him to repentance, to get him away from the state of being a fallen prophet,
to once again being a repented and true prophet. Yeah.
While using this literature that is fabricated by Joseph Smith and those, I'm going to use a term
in this context, and those polygamists, because technically the initial men are really the ones
who jumped on board with this polygamy idea, except for maybe a couple. But if I'm not mistaken,
most of the ones that are pro polygamy have been there from day one, right?
Well, the funny thing about that is, and this is something I didn't realize until
Bryce had brought it up earlier in the series here. Emma Smith, who I've always lumped firmly
in the anti polygamist camp, at one point, she was saying, yeah, well, if you're going to take
this woman as my wife, I'm going to take William Law as my husband. How's that?
It's like, so it's a lot more nuanced than I had realized. I don't appreciate.
And I'll also point this out from the actual exposer itself, and I'm going to screen share
really quick so people can see just a little visual stimulation that's more than just our
faces talking. But here is William Law. This is a very iconic chinstrap beard,
and this guy is a hero among ex-Mormon groups, because it's like, this guy stuck to his laurels.
He fought against the Prophet when it was very likely that it was life-threatening to do so.
The Prophet iced him out of all of his property, and he just got screwed over and publicly assailed
by Joseph Smith. And this guy is a bit of a hero in X-Mormon circles. But this is a copy.
I mean, this is just like an updated version of it. But here's an actual screen,
a scanned version of the novel exposer that you can see yourself. It's real paper. This thing is
really an iconic moment in Mormon history. And in this, let me stop sharing. I want to read a
little quote from this, because it does talk about them trying to go through the proper channels to
reform the church and not being successful. They say, quote, many of us have sought a
reformation in the church without a public exposition of the enormities of crimes practiced by
its leaders, thinking that if they would harken to counsel and chew fruit, meet for repentance,
it would be as acceptable with God as though they were exposed to public gaze.
And it goes on to say that that wasn't successful. So here we are exposing these things.
And there are multiple parts to this. They did not like how Polygamy was going.
Close friends of William and Jane Law were the Lawrence sisters who were both taken to wife
by Joseph Smith and raped. And one of them even ended up succumbing to her PTSD a few years later
and committing suicide. These girls suffered horrible shit. And then Joe stole thousands
of dollars from them because they were orphans and they had an inheritance and he just straight
up stole it from them. And the laws saw what happened. They saw the real world impact of what
is going on. And the expositor talks extensively and describes the PTSD that these young teenage
girls, teenage women suffered from these relationships, from these marriages.
It's a harrowing read. The whole thing, you can read through it in 25, 30 minutes or whatever.
I would highly recommend it. Just Google Na'vu Expositor. You can find it on our
website that talks about Mormonism. But it does extensively discuss the details of how
troubling and how problematic Polygamy truly was, but also the political machinations.
They were not happy with Joseph Smith being so damn powerful.
Yeah. And what a miracle that that survives at all because I don't want to give any spoilers,
but Na'vu Expositor was not in print for very long.
Well, let's get into that. That's where we are. That's where the story is. Joe didn't know what
to do with the Na'vu Expositor, right? And he resorted to the same tactics that had been used
against his people in Missouri. And he said, it's a nuisance. It's a public nuisance that we have
to destroy the printing press. Yeah. Yeah. Dude, this guy, man. One issue done. One issue. It got
out. One issue. So there was nothing. He couldn't undo the damage from this expositor releasing
this print. Oh, go ahead. I was going to say, they in the city council, the council of 50 met
and deliberated about what to do with the council or with the Na'vu Expositor. And in one of the
notes written by William Clayton, he says that they have the second number of the Na'vu Expositor,
as if they had the second one that was going to come out and that they agreed to destroy it after
reading the contents of the second number. Oh, after the second. Yeah. So like the first number
was published June 7th, I believe, right? And they deliberated for basically three days straight
in the city council about how to do this, what to do with this, how to legally destroy this
printing press. And one of the notes from William Clayton says that Joseph read from the second
number of the Na'vu Expositor, which leads me personally to believe, I haven't seen any history
talk about this, but it leads me personally to believe that they had the second number ready to go
and that they were in the process of printing the second number. And the first number was damaging
enough, they couldn't let the second one get out. So they had to destroy it before the second one
was finished. That second one had survived to reach the public. Oh, that would have been awesome.
He probably even nailed the coffin harder on the second one saying, oh, you know what,
we already are in big trouble here. Let's go ahead and pull everything we have on them out.
And I can't imagine. So that leads me to ask the question, what the hell happened to this
printing press and the people that are behind it?
Don't forget that there's still a whole state that thinks they're traders and wants to kill them.
Now they destroyed a printing press. The free press, they are threatening free press.
People go ballistic outside of Navu over this. You've just committed treason level.
You must be hung just for that. So the night that the exposer was destroyed,
they had to, like I said, they deliberated for three days in the city council about what to do
with this and what legal loophole they could use to legally destroy this and still have a defense
if they are called to a higher legal body to answer for their crimes.
So they wiggled out this. Basically, they manufactured an interpretation of a public
nuisance article. And in the Navu charter, as was the case in a lot of city charters,
they had public nuisance lines, which meant that the constable could be called in to remove
public nuisances. Most of the times, those were like pigs running in the streets or things that
were like actual nuisances. Sometimes those were actually used on brothels, oddly enough.
So the city council declared that the Navu exposer was a public nuisance and Joe sent
an order as mayor of Navu to Marshal John P. Green to destroy the printing press and to
pie the type, which means to scatter it on the street and burn everything.
So that night, he issued the order at 8 p.m. and John P. Green returned a half hour later
with a writ saying, you're will be done, savior. And it was done. But obviously,
the people knew this was going to happen. The laws knew that this was going to happen.
It was on law, like William Law, one of his properties. The printing press was in a building
that William Law owned and that was private property. He knew that they were going to
break into his property, rip the printing press out and take it out into the street and burn it.
He knew everybody knew that this was going to happen. And this turned into a huge riot.
The city of Navu for that night was, it was a riot. It was like what, well,
I'm not going to draw analogies. It was a brawl. It was a big street brawl between the
polygamists and the anti polygamists. And part of it was that they had to break into that building
to rip out the printing press. There were other allegations that they also rifled through some
of the drawers that were in the office looking for other material and stole it from William Law.
They were never proven true because obviously, when all of this came up in the in court,
the Navu Municipal Court, Joseph Smith did nothing wrong. The city council did nothing wrong.
Nobody did anything wrong. It was completely legal to burn this free press.
And that's when the governor decided it was time to step in.
Now, who's the governor at this time again?
Thomas Ford, Governor Thomas Ford.
And he was the guy who, if I'm not mistaken, correct me if I'm wrong,
was pro but was behind the scenes and no, I'm not supporting these guys.
He upfront acted like he was cool with them, but really he wasn't.
Ford is hard to nail down, really. So Ford was elected because the Mormons did the vote shifting.
Joe promised his votes to Ford's opponents. If Ford's opponent would represent him in court,
after the guys arrested him in Dixon, Illinois, and then he had those guys arrested, right,
at that whole fiasco. But then Joe said that my brother had a revelation that we should vote for
Thomas Ford, the Democrats instead. And Ford was elected because he got that Mormon voting block.
So he couldn't do anything to be really, you know, openly antagonistic to the Mormons,
because then he would be selling those votes in the next election cycle.
Wasn't, weren't women sent to him too? Weren't there women to try and like smooth this guy over too?
That was Thomas Carlin. So that was, that was his predecessor.
Sorry, I'm just trying to piece.
And that was with another one of Joe's arrests. So yeah, hey, it happens. So we get all these
things mixed up. I get it. You need a program to keep up with all the sides.
When we say, Dave, I interrupt you, I apologize. Oh, no, it's all right. But it just occurs to me,
we are just skimming the iceberg. You know, there's so much we're relieving out.
So yeah, there's, so the governor, can we get into the governor getting involved or
potentially give a sneak peek of what's like, they know there's a problem, man. And it's probably
not just him. There's probably a lot more than just the governor himself that knows something's
got to change. And it shows you how the gravity of the situation, like he's a guy who depends
on Mormon votes. And yet what they've done just now is so bad that he can't ignore it,
that he has to, you know, turn on his own, you know, the bite the hand that feeds him, if you will.
And Ford, and remember back in early 1842, right? So we're in May and June of 1844 right now. Back
in 1842, the state of Missouri published all of their documents from the Missouri Mormon War.
And Thomas Ford, I cannot think anything other than the fact that he must have read those documents
and seen what the Mormons had done in Missouri. And he saw where Lilburn Boggs had botched the
handling of the Missouri Mormon War. And he was determined not to repeat the mistake. Because,
hey, it might get him shot by Porter Rockwell in the middle of the night in his study, right?
So Thomas Ford was walking on eggshells with a lot of these issues. And he knew the public
sentiment of the Missourians against the Mormons and that that same sentiment was brought with
the Mormons into Illinois. The Illinoisans were, you know, very receptive and very kind and helping
to the Mormons when they were religious refugees. But when they realized how bad a neighbor's the
Mormons are, the same reasons that the Missourians hated the Mormons started coming back up with
the Illinoisans. And that's from the political machinations. That's from Joseph Smith just
holding way too much power. That's from the counterfeit money. That's from the municipal
court throwing out any charges of thievery or robbery or anything. It's because of the river rats,
the people who would just trundle up and down the Mississippi River and just steal stuff from
people that would have, you know, conveniently be consecrated to the church. There are so many
things that the Illinoisans don't like the Mormons with. And Governor Ford recognizes
that he is on the precipice of a repeat of the Missouri Mormon War. And if he doesn't
handle the situation, hands on boots on the ground personally, then he is going to meet
a similar fate as Lilburn Box did. So the, the, the Navajo Expositor is burned and immediately
tons of affidavits are filed by the laws that fosters in the Higbees, right? Because it's their
printing press. They are the publishers of the Navajo Expositor, but also Joseph's boys,
a bunch of them, write their own affidavits and talk about how this was a public nuisance,
how this, this was all libelous. This is all slanderous and that we, we had a reason to,
to destroy this thing as a public nuisance. So they, all these, these two groups of people
are sending tons of information all back straight to Governor Ford. And he's in office in Springfield
like, what the hell is going on in Navajo? This is not good. Yeah. And he, he, when he
learns that the printing press is destroyed, he's like, I'm getting, I'm, I'm getting there.
I got to get there and I got to keep a lid on this. It's going to boil over. It's going to explode.
Yeah. Yeah. And he was wrong. He was not wrong. He was not wrong. Absolutely. So, yeah. And,
and it's interesting too, because like a number of the, the parties that are sent to meet with
Governor Ford, they get there and they find out that he is on his way to Navu to handle the
situation. And they're like, oh crap. So they like try and track him down and chase him down
to give him and meet with him, you know, give him their, their documents and meet with him
on the road. And they're not successful in doing so, which because the anti Mormons,
the anti polygamy, the anti Joseph group of people are successful in meeting with Governor
Ford more than the Mormons were. The Mormons feel like that Governor Ford is getting a slanted
version of the story that he's, he's acting too rashly that the Mormons are not in the wrong.
But there's just that they want to tell him their side of the story and then he'll understand that
nothing was, nothing that was done was wrong. Yeah. Yeah. So, Governor Ford is headed to Navu.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. What's going to happen, man? Oh man. So, let me ask you this then.
Let's let's teeter around this right here. He's heading to Navu by himself. I mean,
no, he actually sends an order or he sends a request to the federal government asking for
10,000 soldiers from the nearby states. And Congress was like, screw you, man, take a hike,
which they maybe should have done. I'm not sure. I'm not sure how that would have worked out. But
then he also sends out orders to the various militia commanders in the areas and tells them to
gather at Carthage. Carthage is the county seat of Hancock County. Navu is in Hancock County.
So, Governor Ford is going to run the entire affair from Carthage, Illinois. That's where he
is going to set up his base camp where he's going to bring in all of the militias from the nearby
towns and nearby counties. And that he is, if war happens, he is going to wage war on Navu
from Carthage, which is like, you know, 18 miles away or whatever, just right directly down the
Mississippi. So, you know, he's, he is well aware. He's traveling with a posse. He is traveling with
a lot of people with him. He knows that he's, you know, he's royalty, but also that if he doesn't
play it right, if he doesn't walk this path right, he's, his life is in danger. He's like
Game of Thrones level royalty. It's like, yes. And you can see what he wanted to have 10,000
soldiers with him when he went to here. It's like, yeah. Absolutely. Well, and he had read all the
reports from Thomas Sharpe in the Warsaw signal, the guy who saw the parade and was like, whoa,
not good, not good, more than bad. And that guy founded the anti-mormon party, right? Like,
Thomas Ford had probably read every edition of the Warsaw signal, which had talked about
all of the things that are going on, which had, you know, had in sometimes overemphasized,
I don't think embellished is the right word, but had overemphasized certain aspects of criminality
in Navu, published exposes from defectors who went to Warsaw after they defected from Navu.
He knew the Mormon situation extremely well. And it's, it's interesting too to read his memoir,
right? Because he wrote a book titled History of Illinois and published it in 1852, which is,
you know, it's, it's eight years or six years after all of this is really going on and all of the
dust and settle after the Mormons had been kicked out of the state of Illinois. But it's really
interesting to read it, his reconstruction of events from his contemporary notes, because the
dude had his head on straight in the situation. He was not playing partisan ball. He was smart.
He knew the law. He knew where the law had been infringed. He knew what the situation was and he
knew how dangerous this revolutionary was. He was a damn smart guy. Bam. Okay. Give me some visuals
here, Bryce. I want to see a map. You just mentioned Carthage. We want to get Navu and Carthage on the
picture. We have a man who knows his shit and he is about to come in and he's facing Satan himself,
but he's better than Satan, at least mentally speaking. This guy knows he's coming to battle
something big. That's right. And this is, all right, this is Navu. This is the Mississippi
River. Here's the peninsula of Navu here that's, that was so great for manufacturing if the Mormons
had just been there at the right time. Here we have Springfield. This is about a three to four
day journey on horseback right here and up here is Chicago. Springfield is where the governor is
departing from and he is headed to Carthage, which I said down the Mississippi. It's actually
Warsaw that's down the Mississippi. Here we have Carthage right here, right? So here's Navu,
here's Carthage and Warsaw is right, right? Where's Warsaw? It's right on, no, that's Quincy.
But Carthage is just east of Navu. Yeah, just southeast, right? So here's Navu, here's Carthage.
There's a main highway that connected these roads or these two towns. These were a well-traveled
roadway. It's all, you know, it's all county roads now, but these towns are not that far apart,
right? This is the county seat and then Warsaw is, it's like right around here somewhere. Anyway,
yeah, Warsaw found it. There's the triangle, right? Warsaw, Carthage, Navu. Anti-Mormon hotbeds
right here, Warsaw and Carthage and then Navu is the kingdom, the Mormon kingdom. And, you know,
as iterated many times before, this whole surrounding area is filled with Mormon settlements,
mostly non-Mormon settlements, but lots of little tiny pockets where Mormons are.
Me and I remind people that Utah hasn't really come on the picture yet. Not at all.
There's a reason why Navu is a hotspot right now because it's all happening there, but it doesn't
in there. I don't think it's, I don't think it ends here, right? If it did, then I wouldn't be here,
right? Like, I wouldn't be a person. That's a good point. That's a good point. So I want to, like,
cliff-hang on this situation that's coming and it's a storm. It's a no-joke. This is not the
Missouri Mormon war. This is not a skirmish that got real out of hand with some people. This is
bigger. And this has the potential being all those things. I was just going to say, yeah, we are
talking. What is, what's Joseph Smith talking about right now? Do we have any evidence of his
context of what he's saying in this time period? One of the biggest mistakes that was made in all
of this. You know, earlier I said that Joseph Smith has handlers, right? Brigham Young and William
Phelps and Heber Kimball. These guys are kind of his public handlers who translate this radical
revolutionary, his thoughts and ideas and machinations into actual reasonable and actionable
things to do, right? Brigham Young was the ledger guy. He could take any ledger and make all the
red lines black. He was brilliant as a businessman. And he also had some ability to mitigate
Joseph Smith's radicalism. Well, this is an election year. Joe was running for president.
He had sent almost all of the leadership all across the nation to go meet with people and to
election year and to go knock on doors and talk about how great of a candidate Joseph Smith is
and to have these meetings. So the leadership in Nauvoo, when the Nauvoo expositor is published,
is running on a skeleton crew, which means that it's much easier to be swayed to the whims and
will of Joseph Smith alone, who has demonstrated himself to be a very irrational person,
especially when he's being personally attacked like this. So all of those forces that could
hopefully keep a lid on Joseph Smith and keep this situation in control,
they're just gone. They're just absent. They're not there. The mad king has created the throne
unto himself and he's the sole ruler of it right now. And that causes all sorts of dangerous
situations because it makes it harder for his will to be transferred through the leadership
to the rest of the people. It makes it very much harder for him to control the people around him.
It makes everything, it makes his life a lot harder. And the moment when these guys are all gone,
the greatest expose that has ever been published about Joseph Smith is published
in the form of a newspaper that promises to be a weekly periodical. These guys are out in Boston
and DC and New York City and North Carolina, like these guys are all over the country.
It's going to take them weeks to get back to Nauvoo to be able to wrinkle this in.
So Joseph Smith's irrationality and just crazed mania at this time is completely unbridled.
And that obviously just, that just makes him a rabid caged dog at this point.
Dave, tell me something, Dave. We've got a few like two, three minutes here and I'm closing
us out. We're hanging on a thread, man. I wanted to read you from the spring of 1844.
There was a guy named King Follett who was a Mormon. Oh, yeah. Joseph gave a sermon at his
funeral and this is the first time he publicly announced things like, you know, that there's
more than one God at the, the eternal progression and all these things that have been
up to now, you know, a complete secret to anybody except himself and a few in his moments.
And it says, when he was finished with the sermon, he paused in a moment of self-searching,
said with a kind of wonder, you don't know me. You never knew my heart. No man knows my history.
I cannot tell it. I will never undertake it. I don't blame anyone for not believing my history.
If I had not experienced what I have, I would not have believed it myself. Could not have believed
it myself. Yeah. From Von Brody's book. That line spawned one of the best biographies of Joseph
Smith. Absolutely. One of the best biographies of anybody I've ever read. True. Yeah. I mean,
Von Brody is an amazing writer. Yeah. I mean, just watching this series alone will give you enough
reason to say how the hell, you know, like really seriously, like how did this guy,
who honestly, like the funny part is like when he's getting duped by people who are creating
fabricated archeological finds and he, and he's like known to say some hick statement. All right,
now, look here, here's the deal. This guy is, you know. What's in the nut?
Ermaic is Hebrew and Egyptian, you know. Yeah. Yeah. He's like a redneck, man. And yeah. He's
a redneck that has this much power. Yeah. I mean, dangerous, what not being educated enough,
but being good at, you know, tricking people, knowing how the people skills are manipulative.
It's just amazing what that can do, you know. Yeah. And it's amazing, too, that it's not
just Joseph. It's not just Brigham. There's a whole rogues gallery of people that constantly
came in and out of the circle. John Z. Bennett, Samson of Ard. All these guys, I mean, just
ridiculous. And William Law, the irony about William Law is that he would have been such,
he was his Joe second in command. He was totally loyal, totally full of integrity. He would have
been, you know, the guy you want in your corner, but instead he would go to the John Z. Bennett.
The guys who were just as big weasels as he was. And it just amazes me how these guys just flocked,
you know, to like flies on shit. Yeah. I can't help but think about what the risk reward system
of their brains looks like, right? Because most of us are like, Hey, I'm hungry, then I eat a food,
and then my brain puts little chemicals in my body that makes me happy. And like, that's the risk
reward system that we have built into us to be able to survive. What kind of like, how was their
brain tuned such that they were getting the rewards out of these very high risk, but apparently very
high reward situations. Because like that is, that is a vicious, vicious cycle. It can only
spiral upwards in chaos too. Like there's no ratcheting this down. There's no mitigating force.
It's always like, how big can I make the army? How many wives can I get? How big can I make my
following? How big can I make my city? How many people are going to, you know, write bad periodicals
about me? How many books and revelations am I going to write? Like it's always a ratcheting up.
It's always an amping up. It's always a positive feedback loop that only leads to more destruction.
It's crazy. It is. And it's kind of fascinating because it's like every authoritarian movement you
can think of goes by the same playbook. It's like, if it's crazy, we're going to double down on the
crazy and keep it, let it ride, let it ride. At any moment you're losing heretics, you're losing
followers. They're suffering. But it just goes on long enough that if you can just get through
this loop and this loop and this loop, you know, it's fascinating to watch it. It's pathological.
And it is. Yeah. What a magnificent bastard. What a magnificent bastard. Ladies and gentlemen,
stay tuned. You're going to want to see this next episode. I mean, it just gets more and more
climatic. And I cannot wait to see what's going to happen once again. The end is soon. And I'm
just, I just don't know what's going to happen, but I am interested in seeing. I know it is. It's
only going to get worse in many respects. So with that being said, get ready for the next video.
Go check out their patrons. Make sure you go support both of these guys and what they're doing
to bring this content to you. And maybe you got somebody who works for HBO or some Netflix or
something. Holler at ya, boy. Okay. We've got Bryce, the host of Naked Mormonism podcast.
You have the Complete Heretics Guide to Western Religion Book One, The Mormons,
and that is by David Fitzgerald. Make sure you guys go show us some love and never forget, we are
MythVision.
I have hundreds of videos on the Patreon, become a patron and get early access to everything I
ever launched. Join the Twitter. I've got a Discord chat room. You guys can help grow the
community. One-time PayPal or Cash App. If you want to help us out with a donation and join our
Facebook groups, man, let's make this thing happen.
