We are MythVision.
Welcome to MythVision podcast, ladies and gentlemen.
I'm super excited once again to sit with Dr. Bart Ehrman.
Dr. Ehrman, welcome back to the podcast.
Yeah, thanks.
Thanks for having me again.
Thank you.
I'm sorry that we did a deep dive
into like extremely meticulous, not giving you prep.
Really, there wasn't any prep time, of course,
for that kind of work.
And it's OK.
Go ahead and do your questions.
Right, I know you'll do anything,
but it's like these were donor questions.
Don't shoot the messenger, please.
Yeah, no, no, it's fine.
Yeah, it's fine.
If you ask me anything you want,
I'll even tell you my shoe size.
Dr. Bart Ehrman is the James A. Gray Distinguished Professor
at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
He came to UNC in 1998.
After four years of teaching at Rutgers University at UNC,
he has served as both the director of graduate studies
and the chair of Department of Religious Studies,
a graduate of Wheaton College, Illinois.
Bart received both his Masters of Divinity and PhD
from Princeton Theological Seminary,
where his 1985 doctoral dissertation was awarded
Magna Cum Laude.
Since then, he has published extensively
in the fields of New Testament and early Christianity,
having written or edited 26 books,
numerous scholarly articles, and dozens of book reviews
among his most recent books are,
Greek English edition of the Apostolic Fathers
for the Loeb Classical Library,
and that's the Harvard University Press,
a scholarly monograph on the use of literary forgery
in early Christianity, Oxford University Press,
and four New York time bestsellers.
You really, really have to get these books.
If you have not read this stuff,
it will shock you if you aren't acquainted
with textual criticism stuff.
So, misquoting Jesus, I reread that the other day.
You can't pass this book up, I'm telling you.
God's Problem, Jesus Interrupted, and Forged.
And he has the Delay Persons Edition,
which really I needed, and then there's Forgery,
Counter Forgery, which is more complex for scholars
who wanna think deep.
Real quick, before we actually start,
I want everybody to go to Amazon,
or go to bartdairman.com by the books,
check the books out, that's how you can help him
support what he's doing to continue his research
and to bring these ideas to the forefront,
because too often, in America,
I see the evangelical world is really dominating this topic,
and I think more people need to be educated on it.
I'm not a basher, no chip on my shoulder,
but I found to love the Bible that much more,
knowing what it's actually doing
and the humanity behind it
than the mystical, magical, supernatural show.
And that's just my personal opinion.
Ladies and gentlemen, also,
I release all this content early on Patreon,
help support us.
Many scholars, Dr. Ronald Hindall
on the dating of the Bible,
even science about the brain.
Dr. Jason Staples recently interviewed him
on the idea of Israel.
We got lost in the weeds in the New Testament,
even though his book mainly focuses on the old.
Dr. Dennis McDonald and Dr. Price,
they had a discussion slash debate
over the historical Jesus, and on and on and on.
I'm shortly plugging that to say,
help support us here at MythVision.
Dr. Bart Ehrman.
Hello.
Yeah, thank you for being patient through that.
I guess we'll jump straight into the questions.
But did you want to make a comment
about our last show real quick?
It was great.
It was great fun.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Did some Greek.
How often does that happen on a podcast?
You did so well in terms of trying to make it simple
for the audience, you know?
Well, it's complicated because, you know,
you have to, you gotta kind of know the Greek
in order to understand the grammatical arguments.
And a lot of people use Greek
without being really knowing it.
I mean, we've all had the experience of the pastor saying,
oh, the Greek word means this, you know?
And it goes on and half the time, it doesn't really know.
It's just like, he read that someplace.
But which is, it's good.
I mean, it's good that the pastors, you know,
do go to the Greek and it really does help.
But it's a difficult language
and it's not easy to explain.
You know, let's just know something about it.
Well, especially when you're hip-firing too,
some of this stuff isn't simple.
It takes time for you to really prep for it.
And I apologize for no prep.
I didn't really give you anything to prep with
and you were going in the deep end.
So all right, first question, Dr. Arman.
How do you explain Paul's apparent lack of knowledge
about Jesus' life and teachings in his epistles?
A favorite mythicist talking point.
See for example, his teaching on divorce
compared to what Jesus said on the subject in the gospels.
Are the Greek passages that could be referencing Jesus
ambiguous, e.g. James the brother of the Lord
as biological or mystical?
Now, what do you think about the life of Jesus?
Not knowing the life of Jesus in Paul, though, pretty much.
Well, Paul does know about the life of Jesus.
I mean, he quotes him.
And so, and he tells us some things.
And so, it's a very, very interesting issue,
but it has nothing to do with whether Jesus exists or not.
Okay, yeah, okay.
So, you know, how often does Paul mention the emperor Nero?
Oh, well, he must not have existed then.
Right, right.
So, right, so Paul, but it's an interesting question.
Apart from that, it's a very, very interesting question
because Paul does not say much about the life of Jesus.
He talks a lot about Jesus' death and resurrection.
So there's a lot about the crucifixion,
a lot about the resurrection.
But by the way, he wouldn't be able to be crucified
if he didn't exist.
Right, right, right.
Just to point out.
That's actually one of the biggest for me personally.
That's one of the biggest ad hoc props to me
is the idea that he was crucified in the heavens.
I'm not saying it's not possible,
but it doesn't seem to make the most sense for me.
Where do they get this from?
Where do, I mean, seriously,
how many ancient records talk about
anyone being crucified in heaven?
I can tell you how many.
Zero.
Right.
So why is it that's the likely thing that happened with Jesus?
He was crucified in the heavens.
What?
That's the most probable thing
as opposed to the thousands and thousands of people
who got crucified in the ancient world,
including hundreds and hundreds in Jesus' day in Palestine.
Come on.
Come on.
You actually point this out that, you know,
and I think one of the things that you do that's balanced
is you say, well, no, there is a strange Christology in Paul
about a pre-existent angelic, you know, Christ coming down.
And, but they looked at the guy
and applied it to this person and mythologized the guy.
So.
I know.
I mean, the fact, I mean, you know, yes.
Okay.
So let's, you know.
Next question.
No, no, no, no.
Let's deal with this question.
It's a really big question.
Okay.
Yes.
So, you know, quite apart from the mythos thing,
which I mean, I'm just sorry.
Which is, you know, it, it just, okay.
It's, yeah.
Apart from that, Paul does tell us some things
and he doesn't tell us a lot of things.
And it's an interesting historical question.
Why?
So you can actually make a fairly quick list
of the things Paul tells us about the historical Jesus,
by which I mean between the time Jesus was born
and the time he died, you know,
so his actual, the actual life period,
apart from, you know, what he's doing now in heaven
or what he was doing before, but like the life.
So Paul tells us he was born of a woman,
which is, you know, not all that useful
because most of us were born.
But he does, you know, he does say that in Galatians 4-4.
And I think he's probably saying that precisely
because people are saying things like he was a divine being
and wasn't really, and he said, no, he's born of a woman.
He says that he was Jewish.
He said that he says that he had brothers.
He mentions his brothers on several occasions
and he names James as one of his brothers,
whom Paul knows as Jesus' brother.
He mentions the 12, which apparently means the 12 apostles.
He says that Jesus ministered principally to Jews.
He says that Jesus was crucified and all that.
He says that he was killed by the Jews,
by which he means the Jews were responsible.
The Jewish leaders were responsible for Jesus' death.
He quotes several sayings of Jesus.
He's saying that you shouldn't get divorced.
Paul quotes and attributed it to the Lord.
And he said, which is his common title for Jesus,
Kourios the Lord.
And he says that Jesus taught and he quotes Jesus,
that you're supposed to pay the ones who are ministering to you.
And so workman is worthy of his hire, quotes that saying.
And he quotes the extended discussion of Jesus
at the Last Supper, where Jesus distributes the bread
and the wine and says, this is my body given for you
and this is the cup and my blood.
And so he quotes him on those occasions.
And so it's a puzzle why he doesn't say more
and there are a variety of options.
One option is that he just, you know,
he had no occasion to say anything more.
He's writing these letters.
I think people forget or people never think about it
that these are actually pieces of personal correspondence.
Paul is writing to people who are having issues.
Six of his seven letters are directed to the seven letters
that everybody agrees he wrote.
There are 13 letters attributed to him in the New Testament.
But just about everybody agrees,
there's seven of them he really did write.
And then six of the seven are sent to churches
that he had founded and that he felt responsible for.
And they were having problems.
And so he's writing to address their problems.
And so he's not writing a life of Jesus.
He's not writing a gospel.
It's like, you know, I've written,
I've probably written, I don't know,
50 emails over the last couple of days.
And I don't think I've mentioned anything about Jesus.
You know, and so it doesn't mean,
it's just because that's not why I was writing the email.
Doesn't mean I don't know anything about Jesus.
It just means that, so, you know,
maybe that these are,
because they're called occasional letters,
meaning they're written for particular occasions.
So he wrote them and he's just addressing those occasions.
Another option is that he just really didn't care
that much about the historical Jesus,
what he really cared about, you know, like what he did.
He's not just not interested in his baptism
or his healing or feeding the 5,000s.
Like, you know, this is not what,
he's interested in his death and resurrection
because that brings out angels.
He talks, that's what he talks about.
Another option is he just doesn't know anything.
He doesn't know much about Jesus, the historical Jesus.
That would be a little bit weird because he knows,
I mean, he knew Cephas, Jesus primary disciple.
He knew him personally.
And he knew James, Jesus' brother, knows him personally.
And this is really Jesus' brother.
This is not some, you know,
the myth is this could come up with these weird ideas
about who this is.
It is Jesus' brother.
And there's, if you just read it,
it's just like there's no doubt about that.
I can explain that if anybody wants.
I mean, I can explain it.
You're good, because I've got too many questions.
Okay, yeah, I know I'm going on this one,
but it's a good one.
So those are the options.
Okay, yeah, go ahead.
I'll be sure.
That was extremely well said.
I do appreciate it.
And I definitely side with that.
How old are the earliest reasonably complete manuscripts
of each of the four gospels?
Is it true the oldest, the older the manuscripts,
the greater the number of variants?
To the point, some passages may never correctly
be ascertained, if you will, by scholars.
When do you date the Muratorian fragment?
So there's multiple questions into that,
but is it true that the older,
the more difficult variation?
Yeah, no, it's a really interesting,
it's an interesting situation that we have
and a complicated one.
For the gospels, the earliest fragment we have of anything,
it's much debated.
They're hard, it's hard to date manuscripts,
because they usually don't carve in 14 date them,
because to do that, you've got to destroy
part of the manuscript and you don't want to do that.
So, especially if it's a little fragment.
So usually what they do is they date it
on the basis of handwriting analysis.
So there's an entire field of study,
paleography, where people are trained,
there are experts in dating manuscripts,
Latin, Greek, Coptic,
and they manage it on the basis of handwriting.
So the earliest fragment probably dates to the,
sometime in the early second century,
it's just a little piece of the size of a credit card
that's a little fragment from the trial of Jesus
before Pilate in John chapter 18.
So that's the earliest.
The earliest kind of largely fragmented,
there are like multiple chapters for the gospels
is around the year 200.
And so maybe 120, 140 years after the gospels
have been written, we have some fragmentary manuscripts.
The first complete, like the full thing,
like Matthew to John, the whole thing,
is from about 360 CE, so about 300 years later.
Scholars who want to know what the original text said,
like what did Matthew really write,
of course are inclined to look at the earliest manuscripts
because the earliest manuscripts are,
you don't have as many scribes
who might make mistakes en route.
So the earlier the manuscript,
the fewer chances for scribes to mess it up.
So that's definitely what scholars wanted to do
is look at the earlier stuff,
but there is this other problem this person mentions,
which is that the earliest scribes
were not trained to be scribes.
These were not like professional scribes.
Back into the days before Kinkos,
you had to have scribes trained to copy
and trained scribes took years to be trained.
And the people who are in these manuscripts,
they just happened to be the Christian in the church
who could write, most people couldn't.
And so like, you know, Joe Schwartz over here,
he can write, okay, yeah, copy this manuscript for it.
And so he wasn't trained.
And so often they would make mistakes
or they didn't think it was the Bible they were copying,
they're just copying one of Paul's letters here.
So they weren't like that intent
on making sure they didn't change a single letter.
They changed a lot of letters and changed a lot of words.
And so the task of textual criticism
is figuring out how to get behind all of these mistakes
to the original text and the text the author wrote
as much as you can.
And the general thought is we're pretty close
in almost every instance.
I mean, it's, you know, we're pretty close probably,
but the question is absolutely right.
There are passages we just don't know.
And the way we know we don't know is because scholars
disagree, is it worded this way or is it worded that way?
Yeah, it's kind of a big difference.
Yeah, there aren't millions of passages like that,
but there are dozens, hundreds probably, and hundreds.
And they matter.
When do you date the Meritorian Fragment,
if you don't mind?
Yeah, so the Meritorian Fragment
is not a copy of the New Testament.
It is a list of the books
that this anonymous author thought belonged
in the New Testament.
So he's telling you it's our first list of, you know,
what are the Gospels?
You know, which epistles are, which are, which, you know,
and so it's a list of books.
It is, it's in Latin, it's from the Middle Ages.
It's terrible Latin, ungrammatical Latin, it's hard to read.
But it is normally dated to have been originally written
in Greek in the, around the 180s,
the end of the second century.
So it would be our earliest list of books,
which includes our four Gospels,
and I mean includes a lot of what we ended up
with the New Testament.
There are scholars who have argued 20, 30 years ago
started arguing that in fact it's from the fourth century.
And most of us don't buy that.
Most of us think it's actually a late second century.
Interesting, thank you so much.
What criteria are used to determine
which of Paul's epistles are authentic?
If you don't mind just pointing out some of the criteria
and we'll just move forward.
Well, we have these 13 that are, you know,
said to be written by Paul,
plus some outside the New Testament.
We have third Corinthians, for example.
We have the letter to the Laodiceans.
We have these other letters that claim to be Paul also.
And so you have to figure out what did Paul write it or not.
And so the basic idea is that we know
that people were forging things in Paul's name
because we have these things
that everybody thinks was for, were forged.
And so the question, did any like non-Paulian letters
claiming to be Paul get into the New Testament?
And the normal criteria are that they're a core of letters
that have the same kind of writing style.
They use the same kind of vocabulary.
They have very similar theological ideas.
And they seem to be well situated
in the middle of the first century
in terms of what the kind of historical situation
of presupposing.
And there are other letters
that seem to use a different writing style
and different vocabulary, different theology.
They seem to be presupposing a later situation.
And so if you're in that latter group, people say,
well, it's not co-hering with this group
that looks like it's all coherent.
And so those are the criteria.
And so you have the seven,
they're called undisputed Paulian left vessels
and the deutero falling by somebody claiming to be Paul
who's not.
And I know there's so much more that like,
it goes deep in his books that's,
obviously it's more complex than that
in terms of actually doing the work.
Yeah.
Doing the work is tricky.
Try to figure out Greek writing style you compare.
But you know, like if you read Mark Twain
and you read James Joyce,
you know you're not reading the same guy.
Right.
So you do that with, you do that with ancient writings too.
Not just the New Testament,
but this is just something that historians do.
They compare writings for writing style
and you especially look for things
that people don't think about when they write.
People have certain kinds of ways they talk
that they don't think of as just how they talk.
And if you've got people talking two different ways,
they'll probably tell you something.
Thank you, Dr. Ehrman.
Why do you believe the gospel of John is stitched together
from four other documents
and that second Corinthians is composed
of at least two other letters?
Are there other New Testament books
that appear to be composed in a similar fashion?
I would say those two instances
are different from one another.
John, the gospel of John does appear
to have used certain sources of information.
So in other words, whoever wrote the gospel of John
didn't sit down one day
and make up a 21 chapter story about Jesus, right?
He's heard things, he's read things
and he's putting together what he's has.
And it looks like some of the things
that he has are written sources.
And you can tell for a variety of reasons
including some internal inconsistencies
where he'll say something
and then the next chapter will say something else
and it doesn't work, right?
And so one explanation for that is
that he's got several written sources
and put them together.
I wouldn't limit it to four.
I mean, the prologue, the first 18 verses
comes from some other source, probably,
where the word was God,
in the beginning is the word,
the word was God, the word was God.
And he's got a source that gives him his miracles
that are called signs.
He's got seven signs in this gospel.
He's got discourses that seem to come
from a different source.
And so all of these things end up being put together.
Originally, probably John did not have chapter 21,
which is the final chapter.
It includes, of course,
some of Jesus' resurrection appearances,
but it looks like originally it ended
with chapter 20 verse 31,
and that 21 was tacked on later,
which makes things very, very interesting.
There's, of course, complicated arguments to sustain that,
but they're pretty convincing to most critical scholars.
So that's more like 2 Corinthians.
2 Corinthians does look like it's made up,
almost all critical scholars agree
that 2 Corinthians is made up of two letters,
that chapters 10 through 13 is one letter,
and chapters one through nine is a separate letter.
And to make things especially confusing,
it looks like in terms of chronology,
what is now chapters 10 through 13
was the first of the two letters to be written.
And so whoever, so what's, and some of us,
some of us think they're actually five letters
in 1 Corinthians, in 2 Corinthians,
five letters in one square together.
And you'd have to look at the arguments
to see if you find them convincing or not,
but I didn't come up with this.
I mean, this has been around for a long time,
and I find the arguments convincing.
But what it means is that somebody, probably in Corinth,
had some of Paul's letters and wanted to come up,
you know, with the greatest hits album.
It's because he scissors and pasted them together
until what we now have 2 Corinthians.
So that's a little bit different
from what happened with John,
because John's using sources,
and 2 Corinthians is different letters of Paul
that they put together.
Thank you so much, Dr. Amon, that was well said.
What do you consider the greatest manuscript discovery
since the 1800s?
Everyone knows about the discovery of the Gospel of Judas,
the Dead Sea Scrolls, and Nagamadi Library.
However, the 19th century saw the discovery,
and I'm gonna butcher this,
the Chechen Dwarf of the Codex Sinianicus
at the Mount Catherine monastery.
In addition, there were the discoveries
of the Gospel and Apocalypse of Peter,
as well as the Didache, or Didache, if you will.
Which of these do you consider most important, if you will?
It depends, they're all really important
for different things.
And so it depends what you're interested in.
You know, if you're interested in the history of Judaism
in the days of Jesus,
the most significant discovery was the Dead Sea Scrolls.
If you're interested in how Jesus was understood
by early Christians in a variety of ways,
the most important discovery was the Nagamadi Library.
If you're interested in what the words
of the New Testament originally were,
then probably the discovery of Codex Sinianicus,
or Codex Vaticanus in the 19th century,
or the discovery of the papyri.
So really, it just depends what you're interested in.
And since people are interested in different things,
it's impossible to say which one of these things
is the most important.
Too heavy of a question.
I appreciate it.
What is your opinion about the testimony in Flavianum?
In Josephus Antiquities of the Jews,
the paragraph that talks about Jesus,
is it authentic or an insertion?
What do you take, partial interpolation,
whole interpolation?
What's your personal preference?
Yeah, so this is the passage in,
Josephus was his first century Jewish historian,
just for background for everybody who wrote a number of books,
including a book called The Antiquities of the Jews,
which is a history of the Jewish people from Adam and Eve,
up to his own day, it's quite interesting.
And so in book 18, he does,
he mentions Jesus twice in this 20 volume book.
And once in chapter 20, once in book 20,
and once in book 18, and the book 18,
there's actually a full paragraph
where he says some things of substance
about how Jesus had, that he was a speaker
of great, great things, and he did great deeds,
and he had followers, both Jews and Greeks,
and the Jewish leaders were upset with him
and handed him over, and he was crucified.
And so it supports what the gospels basically say,
but it's just a brief paragraph.
The thing is that paragraph contains some statements
that a non-believer in Jesus almost certainly would not say,
such as he was the Messiah,
and he was raised from the dead, according to the prophets.
Yeah, probably not like the deceivers.
And so the question is,
is the whole thing like just stuck in there,
an interpolation from some other source,
or is there actually an original thing there
that scribes have added a couple lines to?
And I think the best evidence is that it actually was there
and that scribes have just added a few lines
to wamp it up a bit.
Josephus' writings were preserved by Christians
in the Middle Ages, not by Jews,
because Jews always considered him as a turncoat
because they saw him as a traitor
for what happened during the Jewish uprising
that ended with the destruction of Jerusalem in the year 70.
And so they didn't copy his writings.
So I think Christian scribes touched up the statement
a little bit.
Thank you.
What is your position regarding what occurs after death?
Your recent book, of course, you discuss heaven and hell,
and I ask everybody to go check it out.
It's on Audible too, so if you can't read it in paper,
it's definitely worth listening to.
No, I'm sorry, you had someone else read it,
if I'm not mistaken.
Either way.
I didn't read it, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, someone else did.
What do you think happens when we die
as the question ultimately?
Yeah, well, that's an easy one.
I think we cease to exist.
I mean, I think we are material beings,
and I don't think that,
I think our entire universe is made up of matter
in one way or another.
And when we die, that's the end of our story.
Awesome, well, that's where I'm at.
So thank you so much.
Do you believe there's a connection
between some of the New Testament writings
and Greek literature, a position advanced among
by others like Dr. Professor,
sorry, McDonald, Professor McDonald.
You know, he has-
Yeah, yeah.
Mark and Homeric epics, Euripides, Abokai and Acts.
Do you think that there's some validity?
And you probably don't conclude
the complete mimesis connection
directly from other texts.
But do you think he has some potential roots
in the possibility that these authors,
possibly Greeks themselves,
aware, you know, maybe they're Godfors,
who knows some of the authors of the Gospels,
are utilizing Greek epics in some sense
to write maybe Mark or involved in the narrative?
Do you think there's some validity to this?
So Dennis McDonald's a really, really smart scholar,
very erudite, and so he knows his stuff.
I do not agree with this thesis
that these books are largely based on
the Greek tragedies and the Greek epics and so on.
I don't think that there's very good evidence of that.
I mean, I don't think,
I don't see Mark being modeled on Homer at all.
He has common motifs,
but you have common motifs, you know,
in lots and lots of writings.
And there's, I think there's really,
I think it's a huge stretch to think
that these classical sources were somehow being models
for how you write narratives like the Gospels and Acts.
I just, I don't think it's right.
So to put it simply, you're not denying
there could be usage from it,
especially being when you go to learn Greek,
you're reading these things.
So who knows, there's the potential of it
being kind of in the air that ideas are floating around
and someone who's a creative person writing a gospel
might be utilizing something,
but you're not saying that this is the template,
Mimesis connection right here.
I mean, you use this to write my Gospels, correct?
I don't know if Mark read Homer or not.
I mean, I don't know.
It's a different kind of Greek.
It's hard Greek.
There's, it's a different kind,
it's a different kind of Greek.
And so, you know, unless he gives some indication,
he doesn't use Homeric language particularly.
He doesn't show any evidence of being able
to read Epic Greek.
You know, you, your readers would,
your readers can probably,
the people listening to you can probably read Middle English
if they're trained, if they have a few days being trained,
they'd probably read some Chaucer, but not a lot,
but you know, there'd be no evidence anybody had
unless they like use that kind of language.
And you know, if you don't, so what's the evidence really?
The evidence said that it has like similar motifs
and that Jesus does things that kind of like, you know,
connected with the things that Odysseus does.
Oh, that's, yeah, well, so, I mean, I, no, I don't,
I don't think it's, it's, it's not,
I don't think it's very good evidence, but, but as I said,
Dennis is a really, McDonald is a very, very bright guy.
And so, I think we have to take him seriously.
Yeah.
Yeah, he speaks highly of you as well.
When I talk to him, he's a great guy.
You're right.
Yeah, yeah.
This is a little bit of a longer question.
Question regarding the Epistle to the Hebrews
and what a clever, interesting book that is.
More specifically, when was it written and by whom?
For what I understand, it was added to the canon
because some early Christians thought Paul wrote it,
although now most believe he didn't.
Due to its frequent reference to the Tabernacle terminology,
a case can be made, it was composed before the destruction
in 70 of the Jerusalem temple.
More specifically during the 60s, if, if correct,
it would place Hebrews between the time Paul composed
most or all of his epistles and the composition of Mark,
the earliest gospel.
Note, some scholars proposed it was written by a woman,
although very few females during this period
received the requisite education to produce such a document
in eloquent Greek.
When, who, why, you know what I mean?
Okay, yeah, no, they're all good questions
and there aren't like slam dunk solid answers
for any of them.
In terms of who wrote it, we don't know.
It doesn't claim to be written by Paul.
Its writing styles completely different from Paul.
Its theological concerns are completely different
from Paul.
Paul is, you know, it's like, it's nothing like Paul,
but it did come to be attributed to Paul,
in part because at the very end,
the author mentions Timothy, who was one of Paul's companions.
And there's been some scholarship to suggest,
there's a woman named Claire Rothschild
who wrote an entire book, arguing that in fact,
the author wants you to think it's Paul
and that putting that thing by Timothy at the end
is a way the author trying to get you to think,
yeah, actually this is Paul,
to increase its probability of being accepted.
There's nothing to suggest it was a woman
and there's nothing, apart from the fact
very few women could write to suggest it wasn't a woman.
There's not particularly anything about it
that make you think one way or the other,
except for, you know, you have very, very few
women authors at the time.
In the New Testament, we only know the actual name
of one author and that's Paul.
I mean, the other books, we don't know who,
we don't know their names.
When would you date Hebrews though?
So, okay, I'd date Hebrews after 70.
I think that the idea that it seems to presuppose
that the temple is still functioning
is an argument that I used to accept as well
until I realized that we have Jewish texts
from the early middle, from late antiquity,
from hundreds of years later,
that talk about the temple as if it's functioning.
And so it's, when it talks about Judaism,
when the book of Hebrews talks about Judaism,
it does not seem to be referring to things
going on in the author's own time.
It seems to be referring to what's found in the Bible,
biblical understanding, in other words,
what's found in the Old Testament.
And so there's very little reason to date it before 70.
So I think it's sometime after 70.
Interesting.
The earliest extent reasonably complete Bibles
are Codex Vaticanus and Codex Sinaiticus.
Both are dated between 320 and about 370
as you talked a little bit about this earlier,
which would place them within the reign
of Constantine the Great.
Which one do you, Dr. Ehrman, think is more accurate and why?
Also, do you have an opinion
if either one was of the 50 commissioned by the emperor?
You know, note that neither Codex includes the story
of the woman taken in adultery while Sinaiticus
also includes the epistle of Barnabas
and the shepherd of Hermes?
Yeah, I think they're dating it too early
if they're saying in the reign of Constantine
who died in what, 337?
Usually these are dated to 360 or so now.
So that would not make them one of the 50
ordered by Constantine, Constantine wrote a letter
to the church father, Eusebius,
and asked for 50 Bibles to be produced.
And you know, people got all excited
when they found these Bibles
because they were pretty exotic productions.
They were very handsome and they thought,
well, that would cost a lot of money.
Maybe the emperor ordered them.
Yeah, okay, maybe.
There are a lot of rich people in the empire.
And so they are very similar to each other in many ways.
It's true that Sinaiticus does include two books
that did not make it into the New Testament.
So this would mean that in the year 360,
you still have people who think that some
of these other books should be part of the Bible.
The Vaticanus is slightly more accurate
in terms of its text.
They're very similar to each other,
but Vaticanus tends to be a little bit more accurate
and tends to be the go-to.
Some of the books in Sinaiticus have a lot more changes
from what would appear to be the original text
than Vaticanus does.
Interesting, thank you so much.
And finally, let's take a look at the
and eventually believing outlandish claims.
A major takeaway is that we are all vulnerable
to manipulation and the number one defense
is simply awareness of that.
Brilliant videos with superbly artistic style
and decisively rational approach.
The recovering from religious foundation
uses this channel for training because it is so wonderful.
Please consider checking it out,
subscribing and sharing.
Links are in the description below.
