Okay, we are live.
I am the host of this channel called MythVision Podcast.
My name is Derek Lambert.
Many years ago, I started this channel and when I began it, I titled it MythVision.
In yes, behind the titling of it, I was a mythicist.
So, there was a bit of the myth and vision looking at the myth that was inspiring me
to want to title this channel MythVision.
People to this day, mythicist vision, but I'm not a mythicist right now.
I say right now because, well, I'm not persuaded by the arguments and I don't act like I have
now found the it, but I'm persuaded that there was probably a guy based on my research over
the years.
However, before we begin and introduce our guest, I made a post just recently.
We have Christian apologists who love to quote people like Bart Ehrman and others to
mock and scoff at people who are mythicists, who think there probably wasn't a guy.
And I want us to be very cautious when we have people like that weaponizing these ideas
for what they actually think.
They want you to accept and believe so many absurd things about their claims, their faith,
whatnot over against research that even we today and our panel is going to actually agree
with much of the things that are said by mythicists.
So we're closer than you realize, but we want to be accurate.
We want to be factual.
We want to come down on what we think is the case historically.
And so this isn't my research, though I'm actually going to be a fly on the wall and
I'm begging you as an audience to join me in being a student.
But there's one thing I've always tried to convey as a person in this channel is not
I have all the answers.
I know what the case is.
I'm persuaded at the moment by certain ideas.
Join me as a student, observe, learn, watch, and later on make your mind up.
But I ask that we're open-minded as we listen to what's being said because both of the guests
have read the works of Dr. Richard Carrier and I might even have Richard back on later
on to consider responding to some of this stuff down the road.
That's all I have to say at the intro.
Now let's introduce our guest.
With that being said, Camille Gregor, Chrissy Hansen, welcome back to MythVision.
Hi.
Hi.
I'm the BBAC.
Yeah.
I'm very thankful.
You both have worked together on publishing an article.
Am I correct in calling it an article?
Two articles.
Yeah.
We originally wanted to write just one, but we had too much material, so we had to split
it into two.
That's something that happens to me all the time.
Both of these articles, so these are journal articles, and both of them have now passed
peer review, which means that we can talk about them without compromising double-blindness
of the peer review process.
An open access version of both of these articles has been uploaded to Humanities Commons, so
if you click a link in the video description, you will be able to read them right now.
It's a pre-published version, but the text is identical to the version that will be published.
It's just the actual journal articles are going to be behind a paywall, so this is a
way for you to access them for free, basically.
So yeah.
Awesome.
And by the way, I have a presentation that has, sorry?
Go ahead.
I was going to mention Chrissy's got a book she just launched, but go ahead.
Oh, yeah.
Go ahead.
Sorry.
Yeah.
I just recently published my very first scholarly book in the field of New Testament studies,
The Empty Prison Cell.
Go get it.
If you're interested in like Pauline authenticity studies and stuff, I am, as far as I know,
the first author in the world to write a full-length book on the authenticity of Philemon.
And specifically, I'm disputing its authenticity.
So check that out.
So it means there is now 100% consensus among the scholars who have actually written on
this question.
And close.
I do have an entire section where I survey all the discussions that have been done on
the authenticity of Philemon, and none of them by the pro-authenticity side are even
longer than five pages.
So real quick, before we get started, if you do like a weighted average, then you're definitely
like making up 99% of the scholars.
Right.
All right.
And those who want to super chat, I really appreciate it.
I'm going to be occasionally maybe making interruptions during this presentation.
It'll be kind of a long one.
Camille will be mainly doing the presenting.
Chrissy will probably interrupt as well to emphasize or clarify, because here's the interesting
point about this.
This is not like most research, I feel, hasn't.
We have a very close in the trenches experience with mythicism.
And so we understand how a lot of the people online engage or understand this material
and stuff.
And I think that if there's an important point, we want to emphasize those points and
stress them so the audience really knows what's being said at the moment.
So we will find breaks occasionally.
Camille, hopefully you'll let me know, like, hey, now we'll take some super chats.
If not, we will get to them at the end and they will be in chronological order.
So if you get them in early, you'll be one of the first people that we respond to.
If you're late to the party, what do they say?
The early bird gets the worm kind of thing.
So we will eventually get to it underneath whoever super chatted.
So Dr. Sledge, what a way to start out with esoterica dropping us some love.
Thank you so much for that super chat.
But we will address questions and super chats as time goes by.
I already see people with their own, you know, you're going to straw man.
Why do you need?
You already left the religion.
Why do you need this this guy to have existed?
Like, there's other motivations behind why we would think there's a dude.
Like, yeah, and he got mythologized.
He made a lot of failed predictions and things like that.
Like, like, honestly, I feel like historicism also has if you're trying to like
argue against Christianity, having a guy exist.
There's so much argumentation you can use against the religion that way.
Anyway, that's not why I come to those conclusions.
But there's always going to be a million reasons why someone might want to try
and say why we would think that could have been a guy.
Anyway, that's psychoanalyzing and doing all sorts of stuff we don't want to do today.
How do you want to begin this?
Yeah, I just want to say I have a actual presentation that has 130 slides.
And I timed it to two hours.
So probably we're going to be like for three hours, probably more depending
on how many questions people ask.
So I will try to get through it as quickly as succinctly.
So that I just ask a little bit more formally, right?
So you've probably seen me around YouTube on various channels.
I'm currently doing my PhD in classics, which is the same
same qualification that Richard Carrier has.
So I'm not getting a training to be a biblical scholar, which is fine.
But I double in biblical studies.
I, for example, published on research of a fairly conservative
biblical scholar named Richard Bochum.
You can check links in the video description because it's going to take
you to mine and Chrissy's profile on Humanities Comments.
And you will see all of the various articles and books that we've published.
And most of them are behind the paywall.
But if there's something that you're interested in, hit us up and we'll make
sure we can get you a version of the actual research that you can read.
I should also note, note that this is that relevant.
I myself am an atheist.
I actually have an excellent pedigree because I'm from a country that has
been measured as one of the least religious in the world.
So, you know, me, my parents, their parents and so on.
We've all been atheists for like three generations now.
So unlike you, you muggle born, I am as pure blood as it gets.
But I should, I should probably say why I decided to write on Richard Carrier.
Right. Well, when I was started, when I started my studies in classics,
I didn't really know where to focus my attention.
So I decided the best approach would be to take it alphabetically.
But I didn't find any issue with the work of Aaron Adair.
So I moved directly to Bocam now to Carrier, which means the next
on the chopping block is Dr.
Kip Davis and then it's going to be Arman, Funk, Golder, Habermas and so on.
So now that we have the opening joke out of the way, of course, Chrissie Hansen.
This is not a joke or exaggeration.
She is currently the biggest expert on the history of Jesus
mythosism on the planet, currently alive.
So she's read more on Jesus mythosism and the various arguments
and the history of the debate than even mythosist academics themselves.
I think the only realistically, the only potential competition is
Robert M. Price, but I suspect Chrissie is more well read than him because Bob
doesn't write on the historiography of the debate.
He's he he mentions a lot of it, like he cites a lot of it, but he doesn't
really get into the weeds of what actually happened in those debates
and the progress of them.
I am right now, I'm one of only two people I know of who have
who's have ever discussed in English the history of the debate of mythosism in China.
I'm one of the only people that's discussed the history of the debate
in the Soviet Union.
I have a very lengthy paper published on specifically on those two
and like the entire debate over in Marxist circles from the earliest
iterations of historical Jesus discussions, starting with Friedrich Engels
in the 1880s and 1890s, all the way to the present day.
And then I have a manuscript of a actual book on history of mythosism.
Right. And as far as I understand, the only reason why that hasn't been
published so far is because you keep adding more resources on
mythosism in like Japan and Korea and Mongolia and stuff like that.
Right. Yeah. Essentially, yeah, it needs to be rewritten, especially
because there needs to be an entire section.
Now I'm working on a co-writing a few essays with a friend of mine on the
intersection between mythosism and far right extremist movements as well
throughout history. There's a lot of interesting overlaps, especially in
Nazi Germany, specifically.
So, yeah, I've done probably more on this than just about anyone else.
More than on this than just about anyone else.
The only person who actually would probably have any competition with me
on this subject right now would be George S.
Williamson, who's written at least he's written one at very
lengthy essay on the debate in Germany.
And I know that he has been working on a manuscript with James Carlton
Paget as well.
Okay. Yeah. And our third co-author who isn't here with us today is Brian
Blass, with whom I've authored some research in the past.
We actually needed some help with Bayesian statistics.
So we asked a professional statistician because he, you know,
teaches statistics at the university and he does research there.
So he co-authored one of the papers, but I managed to avoid all the maths
and all the calculations in the presentation.
So, you know, he's not joining us today.
So let me just start sharing the presentation.
One brief note. I just want to also mention, similar to you, I'm not a Christian.
I'm a Norse pagan, actually.
So I have, like, as far from the Christian window as you can get
basically.
So I, and I am very adamant about trying to get rid of Christian
privileging in this field.
I'm very vocal about what I see as especially privileging of Christian
claims in historical Jesus studies in particular.
That's been one of the focuses of my publication history recently as well.
So just, I want to share here just a second to make a point.
We are actually publishing a documentary.
I don't know when it'll be out.
I'm in the process of moving to Florida with my family on eyewitness
claims and antiquity.
And this is all based on an article that Chrissy wrote that I found fantastic.
It was so good that I was like, Chrissy, can I turn this into a documentary
because people should really question even the Corinthian creed about and so
and so saw him and they saw him and 500 saw them.
Is this a trope?
Is this a well-known, let me give myself some credibility and authority.
And I'm going to write this and it makes it more believable.
Instead of taking it all as actually what happened historically.
We need to explain how they had hallucinations or all these kind of
models seems like almost like a literary trope may actually be.
And we can't prove without a doubt, but it's a very interesting
observation to make with all these other examples and antiquity that
they're using this trope.
So we're approaching this critically.
We're not coming at this religiously or that we know that there was a Jesus.
We have higher confidence that there was probably a Jesus than not.
So let's discuss this matter.
All right.
So here are the two articles.
The first one is has been accepted in the journal.
It's called Literature and Aesthetics.
That's one of the places where academic debate about Jesus
Methodism is currently going on.
Specifically, Raphael Lataster has published several pieces on the topic there.
And also it has some rather ramifications for folklore studies.
So it's relevant outside just the question of Jesus.
Methodism and folklore studies is also one of the areas that's
covered by the journal.
And the second article was just accepted in the journal, early question history.
So basically the first article has all of the data or most of the data.
And the second article has most of the calculations.
So what are the two articles about?
Well, basically, I would say there is a pattern of how debates about Jesus'
hystericity usually go, both in academia and also among non-specialists.
So among, you know, just people arguing online.
And it's usually, the dynamic is usually one person asks the question,
what's the evidence that Jesus existed?
Or they will make a statement.
So there's something like there's no evidence that Jesus existed, or there's
no, you know, conclusive or compelling or contemporary evidence.
And then someone else says something in response.
So they'll say something like, you know, Paul mentions meeting his biological
brother, Josephus mentions him twice, Thacisus mentions him and stuff like that.
And then someone will say, well, actually, and then the kind of the
dialectic unfolds from there.
So, you know, they might say, when Paul mentions that he mentioned James
brother of the Lord, he's not talking about biological kinship, but about
fictive kinship and stuff like that.
And what's important to highlight is that all of that are discussions
about evidence.
But what's important is that evidence is only one component of abductive reasoning.
And the second component is prior probability.
And prior probability, I think is neglected, both in academic literature and online.
And our two articles are actually focusing specifically on the question
of the prior probability of Jesus' medicine, which means that we need to
now ask the question, what's a prior probability, right?
And by the way, this is the most boring part of the presentation.
So it's really going to get good in about five minutes from now.
It just needs to go through this.
So this is understandable.
I tried to make it as simple as possible with a lot of visual aid, but
unfortunately, there is no way how to avoid it.
So when we ask the question, what's a prior probability, we can just
quickly ask, talk about the past theorem, which is just a mathematical
formalization of abductive reasoning that Richard Carrier uses.
And, you know, people who don't have formal training in statistics are usually
very quick to criticize Bayesian thinking and its application in history.
And it's definitely true that there are legitimate criticisms of Bayesian
reasoning in technical literature.
But I can promise you that you don't know about them.
And all of the arguments against Bayesian reasoning that you know about
and all of the arguments that you can actually think of are all bad.
Okay.
So Bayes' theorem is fine.
It's useful.
It clarifies certain types of inferential reasoning.
It makes the reasoning more transparent.
It helps avoid some logical fallacies and identify them in other people's thinking.
So, you know, when it comes to ancient history, we have much bigger issues to worry
about than whether Bayes' theorem is an appropriate framework to use.
And basically it has three components, which I color coded here.
And if you notice, evaluation of the evidence is only one of them.
So when people argue about the various pieces of evidence in favor of Jesus'
sister city or against, all of that is essentially covered only by the red section
of the formula.
So almost all of the academic and non-academic discussion about Jesus'
metacism only falls into this one section, right?
But there's also the prior probability, which is coded in blue.
And we can basically very succinctly summarize what the prior probability is.
Using a pity saying extra ordinary claims require extra ordinary evidence,
which is a claim that everyone agrees with and nobody has absolutely any issues
with whatsoever.
So, prior probability is basically just a concept that tells us how extra
ordinary a claim in question is, and in turn how strongly the available
evidence should weigh in favor of the claim being true for us to conclude
that the claim probably is true, right?
So if the claim is very extraordinary, meaning it has a very low prior
probability, then we need to have a lot of evidence and we need the evidence
to be very extraordinary, right?
Meaning that the evidence ought to weigh very strongly in favor of the claim
being true and vice versa.
And this is actually really important because if you don't treat the prior
probability appropriately, for example, in medical science, best case scenario
is that large amounts of money get wasted.
And worst case scenario is that it literally kills people.
So now that we have some idea about what the prior might be, we can move
to how to estimate it.
And that's a million dollar question, right?
There are various approaches how to do it.
And the way how Richard Kerrier does it is through a concept that's
called a reference class.
So what does it mean to have a reference class, right?
And how does a reference class tell you how extraordinary a claim is?
So let's say that you have a hypothesis, which is here represented
by every sexy square.
For example, the hypothesis might be that some person appearing in our
ancient sources actually existed in history and isn't invented.
So how do you estimate how extraordinary the claim is?
How do you estimate the prior?
Well, you construct a reference class, which is basically just a set containing
some number of relevantly identical hypotheses.
So if the hypothesis is about a historicity of an ancient person, then you
collect relevantly identical ancient persons, basically.
And then you just check how many of them actually existed in history.
And if most of them are historical, which is color coded here as green, then
the prior probability of that person under investigation also exists is high.
And you know, where is where is where, basically.
And of course, we have to ask the question, what does it mean for someone
to be relevantly identical to someone else, right?
It basically means identical in respect to all the various properties that are
probabilistically relevant to the hypothesis in question.
So in the case of a hypothesis of a historicity, the reference class is
basically a set of people that are identical to the person in question in
all their various properties that have some probabilistic effect on their
historicity, and it can be anything, right?
It can be what they do, how they look, where they live, when they live, who
they interact with, how and so on.
And they only differ in properties that are not relevant to the question
of their historicity, so my color or the length of their hair, something
like that, right?
That might be relevant, but it not might be relevant, depending on
what kind of culture we are in, for example.
But of course, finding identical reference class members is very hard
to achieve in practice, especially when it comes to the ancient world,
because our data is, of course, very fragmentary, right?
So we have to, instead, settle for a relevantly similar reference
class members.
So these are not identical, they are only similar to the person in question.
But this, of course, leads to the possibility of there being multiple
different reference classes that we can use, each constructed using a
different set of defining properties, right?
So, for example, here we have a person that has nine different properties,
and we can very easily imagine two different reference classes that have
different members and that are constructed using different sets of properties.
So one reference class would be all the people that have A, B and C, but they
don't actually have the other properties, and the other reference class
has some other properties.
And notice that nobody in either reference class has the property I, which
might be actually something that's just unique to the person under investigation.
And what's even more important is this.
So it could be the case that depending on how we construct the reference class,
the prior probability estimate might be very different, even though we are
still talking about the same person, right?
So if we actually use the first reference class, it could be the case that most
of the members just happen to exist, meaning we would think, well, the hypothesis
that the person in question existed is not very extraordinary because look,
all of the similar people existed.
So the prior is going to be high, but it could also be the case that the second
reference class will happen to have people who are mostly fictional.
So if we go with that one, it's going to mean that the prior probability is very
low, and the claim that the person in question existed is pretty extraordinary
because look, all the relevantly similar people didn't exist, or most of them,
right? So why should we think that this one?
So which reference class should we use?
And again, there are different answers, but Richard Garrier uses two criteria.
He basically says that having more defining features is better because if you
have multiple reference classes to choose from, you should go with the most
detailed because it will contain the most similar members.
The Richard Garrier actually calls this the rule of greater knowledge, which to
my, as far as I know, this is a term that's original to him.
And he also says that having more members in the reference class is better.
So the bigger the bubble, more people in it, that's great, right?
Why? Well, because if your reference class is only very small.
You're my, Camille, you're Mike, I think unplugged.
If your reference class was very small.
Nope, you're still.
We've completely lost your sound.
Yeah. I think your plug and Chrissy, while he does that real quick, I just
want to make sure. So what is being said so far, which there's a lot of
mechanical stuff going on here, is there several reference classes?
I'm I'm getting the hunch that if you're pulling from historical figures as
one reference class, but mythical figures that never existed reference class,
and you end up kind of giving one over the other, more weight of comparison to
Jesus, you're going to end up thinking the prior probability goes that path,
correct? Yeah, like if you're only evaluating creating a reference class
and you're only creating that reference class by pulling from a specific
subset of figures, you're going to end up with like a sample bias is going to
bias the outcome of that of any prior probability you do based on that.
So for example, if you did a prior probability with a reference class of
just mythical raglan heroes compared to Jesus and just only chose from mythical
heroes that of course come out at the most that most of your that your
probabilities more likely that Jesus is going to be mythical, especially
depending on if they score enough of the points carriers going to as we're
going to get to is going to argue that there has to be a threshold of at least
12 points scored for them.
He's just restarting it. So OK, before he pops back in, this is an important
point as we look into this because when I was reading on the historicity and
stuff, there are a lot of mythical examples that you could compare similar
to what we find in Jesus.
And this is what I think was such a very driving powerful point that that drew
me toward mythicism.
Go ahead, Camilla, see if you can hear me OK.
Hold on, let me see in the name of Jesus.
All right, go ahead and try talking now.
Is it better?
I have the power.
OK, sorry.
And I just emphasize that where you are, of course, it's a little technical
what was being described by Camille.
But I think that was kind of the nutshell what you were describing there,
Chrissy, of what Camille's point is.
And there's no right right here.
What Camille is discussing, particularly, is the basically the more features
we have for a reference class, the better because it makes it more restrictive
and more and you're able to refine it much better so that you get a much closer
sample size of relevant figures and relevant data points and you excise
any data that has less relevancy.
So you basically end up with just the best possible data set and the best possible
sample. Got it, got it.
And also, if you think about these two criteria, by the way, the sound is still
OK. Yes.
OK, cool.
Yeah, it turns out I have an extremely sensitive cable for my mic.
So if I accidentally bump it, it just goes crazy.
I don't know why.
But anyway, so if you think about these two criteria, usually there's a trade-off,
right? So especially when it comes to the ancient world, because the data is just
so fragmentary.
So if you want a more precise, more concrete reference class, you will
probably going to find fewer members that fit in it because we only know about a limited
number of ancient people to begin with, right?
So and our information about them is more fragmentary.
So we usually need to find the right balance.
So if you have like a school classroom of people and you say, OK, I'm only looking
for people who are blonde, then there's going to be a number of people who fit
into the reference class, right?
But then if you say, OK, well, I only need people who are blonde, they are male,
and they wear certain t-shirts and stuff like that, probably you're going to have a smaller
sample, right?
So the more detail you get, the more the reference class shrinks, because there isn't
like an unlimited number of people that we know of, right?
So what scares reference class?
Well, it basically has two defining features.
The person in question needs to be from Mediterranean antiquity.
A carrier frequently compares Jesus to modern mythical characters like Angel Moroni from
Mormonism, Ned Lott, that's some kind of American folklore hero, or various savior figures
from Pacific cargo cults.
But he doesn't include in his reference class people from outside Mediterranean antiquity.
And that's actually a very good idea.
That's the appropriate way how to do it, because the cultural context needs to be kept constant,
right?
So the probability that a certain type of person actually existed might be different
in different cultures.
So if we don't restrict it to one specific region and period, then we don't control for
that, right?
For example, because literary tropes or mythical archetypes present in various cultures might
be different, and that might ex-execute our probability estimates.
So, and also adding this precise specification, so limiting it to specific region and specific
period improves the reference class, because that's in line with the principle of greater
knowledge.
And I should probably ask, I should probably tell to our audience from like America and
Australia and so on, what is Mediterranean antiquity?
We don't have to nail it precisely, but in terms of space, if we use like large bodies
of water, it stretches roughly from the coast of the Atlantic Ocean to the river Euphrates
on the east, and then from the Danube river on the north to like the cataracts of Nile
on the south, right?
And in terms of time, it stretches from Late Bronze Age, let's say, to the fall of the
Western Roman Empire.
So it doesn't cover, you know, European middle ages and early modernity.
And then the question is, of course, what's a rank Raglan hero?
Well, that's a concept from Anthropology that's named after two people, the rank and Lord Raglan.
And neither of them were anthropologists, by the way, which is of course fine.
That happens to the best of us.
And basically they, especially Raglan, developed this idea that there is a type of a hero that
reappears across time and space and various cultures, right?
And so it's like a universal mythotype that keeps showing up across the planet.
And he developed a list of narrative attributes that appear in myths and folktales about this
hero mythotype.
And then he basically collected a list of heroes.
And for each hero, he counted how many of these attributes the hero scores, right?
So you can take a person, you can run through this list, you can give him a number of points
that corresponds to how many of these attributes appear in the narratives about the hero.
And a hero might score, let's say, 20 points, which means that if you read a story about them,
you're going to find 20 out of these 22 things.
They might score only 10, you know, various numbers.
But by the way, this presentation includes citations.
So the small number one in square brackets in gray refers to a source.
And you can actually download this presentation even right now in the video description below.
And the last slide of the presentation lists all the citations.
So this, I think this is the easiest way how to do it.
This, for example, just references Raglan's book or a reprint of one of his articles.
But all of the citations that we are going to see in this presentation are listed there.
So Richard Carrier, basically.
Real quick, just for those that want to know, the original article was published in 1934
in the journal Folklore.
All right. So Richard Carrier and also other people say that she scores very highly on the list.
So he basically used the archetype as a defining feature of his reference class.
And basically Carrier says that any hero who scores at least 12 points, which is more than half,
gets to be called a rank Raglan hero, and they get to be included in the reference class
as long as they are from Mediterranean antiquity.
So Carrier actually excludes some people who were scored by Raglan,
but they are from elsewhere in the world, like Sudan or Indonesia.
They are from European middle ages and so on.
And Carrier adopted this list.
He just made some changes.
And these changes result in Jesus scoring more points.
So for example, the first attribute in Raglan's original article says the hero's mother is a royal
virgin, and Richard Carrier changes it to just hero's mother is a virgin.
Because in the Gospel of Matthew, which is what he uses for scoring, Jesus's mother is a virgin,
of course, but she's not royal.
She's just a peasant, as far as we can tell, right?
And so he makes a couple of these changes to Raglan's wording.
So who are the rank Raglan heroes?
Here is the list.
So this is Richard Carrier's reference class using the same kind of diagram as we used before.
So Jesus is the hypothesis in question, or his historicity is the hypothesis in question.
And in the reference class are all the people that are included who
mean the two defining features.
So they are from Mediterranean antiquity, and they are rank Raglan heroes,
meaning they score at least 12 out of these 22 narrative attributes.
And they are all in red, because all of them are fictional, as far as we can tell, right?
And because the entire reference class consists of fictional people,
Richard Carrier then sets the probability of Jesus's existence to be very low.
And so he basically says, okay, if Jesus existed, he's an exception, because look,
all of these other relevantly similar people are all fictional.
And of course, it's possible that Jesus is exceptional.
But by definition, exceptional cases are less probable than typical cases.
So if Jesus didn't exist, he's typical.
He's just like all of these other guys, right?
But if he's the only one who, sorry, if he didn't exist, he's typical.
He's just like one of these other guys.
But if he existed, he's an exception.
So that's pretty extraordinary.
I just want to interrupt as far as we can say.
Camille, just to say, I want to interrupt here just to make the point that
based on this alone, if this is all we're factoring in,
as far as evidence goes to compare Jesus, then anyone in their right mind would tend to agree,
I would imagine, with this kind of conclusion.
Wouldn't you agree, at least based on so far?
Yeah.
What's also important to emphasize, and everyone that uses Bayesian reasoning should say this
very strongly, that this is only at the prior probability.
Which means it can still be overcome by evidence.
So you can start with this, and you can say, sure, this is fine, right?
If Jesus existed, he's exceptional.
But if the evidence is really good that he existed,
that's more than enough to make up for it, basically, right?
That's how the Bayesian reasoning works.
So you start with the prior, and then it moves up and down, basically,
depending on which way the evidence weighs, right?
If the evidence is like a wash, so some of it may be a little bit more in favor of historicity,
some of it may be a little bit more in favor of mysticism, or it's just all neutral,
then this doesn't move either in either direction, and you basically end up with
Jesus' mythicism being more likely true than not, right?
And what's also very important is that Richard Carrier not only presents this,
but he also says that there is no historical person who is a rank Raglan hero,
at least in Mediterranean antiquity, right?
And there's also one point that's very important for us to say,
and that's that Richard Carrier adapts Raglan's scoring,
which means that he gives the same heroes the same points as Raglan,
and he also adds his own scoring of Jesus and Osiris who were not scored by Raglan.
And in some instances, which are here in red, Richard Carrier actually
takes away a point or two from the hero compared to Raglan,
so he basically downscores them, because he says that in some cases Raglan
applied these attributes kind of too loosely, right?
So they don't really apply in his opinion,
and he thinks that the hero in question doesn't really score the point.
So for example, Raglan gave 20 points to Theseus,
and Carrier said, well, actually Theseus should only get 19,
because one point was kind of vicious away, took it away from Theseus, right?
But what's a little bit interesting is that Richard Carrier now says that he can't actually
remember which specific points he took away, and in this comment under one of his blog posts,
he even mistakenly wrote Dante instead of Raglan, so this should say Raglan.
Dante is just a different author who also wrote about this.
And what's also interesting is that Richard Carrier also seems to be confused now
not only about which points he deducted, but also which heroes
he deducted the points from, right?
So again, in one of his blog posts, he says that he downscored Oedipus,
and he even specifies which point he took away from Oedipus and why.
But if you look at his book, he just gives Oedipus the same score as Raglan.
So this is not reflecting what's in the book, right?
And what's important, again, just to reiterate,
is that Richard Carrier claims that all rank Raglan heroes are fictional
in Mediterranean antiquity, and that there are no historical rank Raglan heroes.
But we can, of course, ask the question, is that actually true,
and how much research have gone into looking for historical rank Raglan heroes?
So is it really the case that are no historical rank Raglan heroes from Mediterranean antiquity?
Well, we have found 33, and we had to stop counting because otherwise we would never publish,
right? So we started counting, and at some point we had to stop.
I decided to stop at this number because it's the year in which Jesus was crucified.
It's also, he was 33 at the time, so that sounds like a nice number.
And since we have submitted the articles, it takes a couple of months before the publisher
gets back to you, before you get the reviews from the referees and stuff like that,
I've came across several additional historical rank Raglan heroes.
I think in total we've come across at least three or four more since we submitted this article.
Just one comment real quick, Camille. This is important what you just said. You introduced
something, and I want this for the audience members. I love y'all. I really do. I don't care
where you are. I don't care if this persuades you at the end of the day. What I would love to see
in the rhetoric that goes on, the exchange back and forth. I don't want to hear people say,
by the end of this, you historicist types have no reason why you draw your conclusions. It's
absurd. How do you not see this guy's completely mythical and he never existed? And when you
consider what's being said here, that 33 historical people also match the numerical rank Raglan
observations, just like non-existent figures. I imagine, and I don't want to jump to conclusions,
some of them are even contemporaneous with Jesus himself. Huge red flags and anyone who's
serious about truth. I want to challenge anyone who's serious about honesty and truth.
When you listen to this, I hope this nudges that dogmatic, I must, I see it all the damn time,
and it bothers me because I'm like, hold on, what are we now a religion? Are we now dogmatic and
must be mythicist? Or can we not entertain this scientifically and consider evidence that maybe
hasn't been observed and presented in this way? Because this is the first time this particular
observation is being presented. And I already have people in the chat whose minds are made up.
I'm asking us all to be students together because I plan on having Richard down the road respond
if he wants to, if he has something he wants to respond to. So let's all be charitable and honest
researchers and consider the evidence. Sorry, I had to jump in, but that's all right. So this was
a nice cliffhanger. So let's go into it and let's see who that is and let's go into detail. So how
did we find them? How is it possible there are so many? And why didn't anyone find them before?
Including Richard Kerir. Well, to answer these questions, we need to actually look into how
the scoring is done. So we need to kind of look under the carpet. So let's start. Raglan has his
list of narrative attributes. And then basically for each hero, he describes how exactly the
attributes appear in the narratives about the hero. So you have the list on the left,
and then in his article, you basically have like a short paragraph, which kind of paraphrases the
narrative, the myths and the tales about the hero. And it tells you which of these narrative
attributes the hero scores and how. What is it exactly about the narrative that makes Raglan
give the hero the point? But what's actually very important is that when you compare the two,
you find out that they are different. So Raglan actually doesn't stick to how the attributes
are worded. And my suspicion is that people, including scholars who try to look for historical
rank Raglan heroes in the past, they basically only read the list of the attributes, but not
the description of how the attribute applied. So basically only read the text on the left,
but they didn't read on the right. So when they then looked for heroes who exhibit the attributes
very strictly as they are worded on the list, it was very difficult for them to find people who
match, right? But they didn't look at how Raglan and also Carrier actually apply these attributes
to the fictional heroes. Because if they did that, they would discover that both Raglan and Carrier
often apply these attributes very loosely. So they are being very inclusive, which basically
can create a double standard in some cases where historical rank Raglan hero candidates
are scored very strictly. So it's very difficult for them to get out of points. But fictional
rank Raglan heroes have been scored very loosely or like using a more inclusive application of these
attributes. So it's much, much easier for them to get out of points and be included in the reference
class. And basically, when you score historical figures consistently with how Raglan and Carrier
score their fictional heroes, well, then historical examples start showing up, right?
So just to give you an example. So one of the narrative attributes is worded like this,
at birth, an attempt is made to kill the hero. Okay. So let's see how Raglan applies this
attribute to Joseph, son of Jacob, one of the patriarchs from the Bible. He says in his childhood,
his brother's attempt to kill him. Now, Derek, can you tell me like what is this in Exodus,
what exactly happens? And how does it fit into this attribute?
It'll be in Genesis, not Exodus. Yeah, Genesis. Either way, if I'm not mistaken,
it wasn't in his childhood. He was already like kind of a teenage adult, right? I mean, he's
already like, he's already somewhat older. He's not an infant. On top of that, they also don't
try to kill him. They sell him into slavery. One brother makes the hint that they might be
trying to, but then the other is like, no, instead of killing him. So like it is like one person,
I think makes the mention of like, but then there's no actual attack. I think if I recall this
story correctly, they put him into a hole in the ground, like they tie him up, throw him into the
hole. And that's meaning he would die of exposure. But then one of the brothers convinces them to just
sell him to slavery instead, if I'm not mistaken. In this case, it's also a little bit funny because
that's one of the places where you can very clearly see the documentary hypothesis, right?
So the story gets really convoluted because it's plugged to different narratives,
kind of stitched together. So like who, you know, who sells him to whom and stuff like that is a
little bit more convoluted. But what's very important is that this doesn't happen at birth.
It happens when he's 17. And this is actually explicitly stated in Genesis. And it's also
reiterated in Josephus and his antiquities because Josephus' Jewish antiquities,
basically the first like half is just his retelling of the events of the Hebrew Bible,
the historiographical books, right? So and just to be clear, there isn't an obscure rabbinic source
in which Joseph is also endangered as an infant. No, this is the basis for Raglan giving this
specific point to Joseph, right? But you can hear see that there is like a mismatch between
what the attribute says and how it's then applied. And this is important because of course Joseph
only has 12 points, which is Carrier's threshold included in the reference class,
meaning that if we take away this point because he doesn't actually score it,
because he's not put in danger as an infant, well, he drops from the reference class and
the reference class becomes smaller, which is a bad thing, right? But what if we do the opposite
and we score historical people consistently with how Raglan and Carrier score Joseph?
Well, this is what happened. There's a Greek politician and general named Aratus of Scyon,
who was hunted during civil unrest that resulted in a death of his father before.
Enemies of Pyrrhus I, the king of Pyrrhus, the finance leader who fought the Romans,
they sought to kill him after his father had been exiled. Emperor Tiberius actually lived during
the civil wars that preceded the establishment of the Roman Empire and he was on the run
during the civil wars and very narrowly escaped death. And of course, because there was a lot of
intrigue at the Roman imperial court, Claudius, his wife, sent assassins to kill Nero. Now,
the question is, when did this happen? Did this happen at birth of these heroes? No.
Aratus was seven. This is what the primary sources say explicitly. So in all of these cases,
we actually can determine based on the sources how old they were. Aratus was seven. Pyrrhus was
two. Tiberius was still being breastfed. This is what explicitly said in Suetonius. And Nero,
we can deduce, wasn't much older than four. So you can see that if we actually stick to the strict
wording of the attribute on the list, none of these historical people would score a point.
But if we score it consistently, how Raglan and Beir scored their fictional heroes,
including Joseph, then all of these historical people get the point, just like Joseph. And they
now are one point closer to being included in the reference class. They're one point closer
to becoming rank Raglan heroes. And that's basically what we did consistently. So if you
actually look at how Raglan and Karir score, not just a list of attributes,
then you'll see historical rank Raglan heroes showing up.
If I may just point out one thing though, too, Camille, and this is something I hope you can
give me yes or no, probably without having to answer this. But with historical figures,
sometimes we might actually be dealing with mundane historical facts that just so happen
to fit in, we could we could count the category. But there are going to be examples I imagine
you're going to cover them. And I don't want to jump the gun where historical people get these
clearly legendary tropes that we find in mythical people. And that is there going to be a differentiation
between what we might say, Hey, that actually happened where this emperor actually escaped
his death and he's on the run versus this looks more like a mythical trope applied to a historical
figure. Yeah, we're going to definitely be talking about that. That's important, right?
Right. One last thing I want to know is also like even on the more stricter definition,
every single one of these historical figures better matches that situ the wording than Joseph
does like Tiberius still being breastfed is far closer than anything you get with Joseph.
So if you score Joseph, Tiberius has to score. There is just no ifs, ands, or buts about that.
If you score Joseph at 12 points and give him that point, Tiberius has to.
Yeah, like if you manage to determine the like all of the qualifications around that
so that Joseph gets the point, but Tiberius doesn't, then you have a fine tuning problem,
right? You just have to turn all the knobs exactly to make sure that you only have fictional heroes
in your reference class and nobody who actually existed. But we'll see, we'll see more examples
of that later. What's very concerning in this case, I would say is that Richard Carrier actually
already amended the wording of this specific point once in his own version of the list,
which results in Jesus getting the point, right? Because Jesus is put in danger when he's an
infant. He's only put in danger when he had to degrade all of the boys, I think younger than
two or three, to be slotted around Bethlehem. So this has already been abandoned. But Richard Carrier
didn't go back and fix any of the discrepancies in other fictional heroes. So he still gave Jacob
the same number of points as Raglan, even though after, even after his
restatement or rewording of the attribute, right? By the way, can you hear me okay?
It goes in and out a little here and there. I don't know if it's a loose, the wires loose or
something, but it's working enough. We can understand you, but every once in a while you
just go. Yeah. All right. So you're saying just to make sure Carrier changes a little bit. He's
changing the wording a little in his version of it. Yeah. Well, the point is that he basically
already reworded this, but he didn't take into consideration like that even under his updated
wording, Joseph still doesn't score if we interpret this very like literally, right? Because Joseph
isn't put in danger when he's a baby and he's also not put in danger when he's an infant, right?
So that's like, that doesn't basically remove the inconsistency. And I've actually asked Richard
Carrier about this in a comment under one of his blog posts. And he acknowledged that this needs
to be reworded again to keep Joseph in the reference class, right? Meaning all of the
historical figures that are listed above that we've talked about, if we score consistently,
they of course all get the point as well, right? But that's actually not the only inconsistency
about this. So Richard Carrier actually in his book scores two historical figures from Mediterranean
antiquity, Alexander the Great and Mithridates VI, the king of Pontus, who for relatively long
time fought the Romans pretty successfully until he didn't, right? And Richard Carrier says that
these two people who actually existed fail to score at least 12 points. So they are not included
in the reference class and they don't actually pump the prior probability of Jesus's existence,
right? But the problem is that when it comes to this specific point, he treats Mithridates
inconsistently with how he treats Joseph. So he says that Mithridates doesn't score the point
because he is put in danger, but not during his childhood. He is only, he's not, sorry,
he's not put in danger at birth. He's only put in danger during his childhood and teenage years.
So that disqualifies him, right? But the problem is that as we've already seen,
Joseph is only ever put in danger when he's 17. So again, this is inconsistent, right?
You are basically creating a double standard. You are scoring fictional heroes one way
and historical people a different way so that the historical person doesn't get the point
and the fictional person does. That's an issue. And again, either Joseph loses the point
make it consistent, which means he drops from the reference class and the reference class gets
smaller or Joseph gets the point. But then everyone else that we named also gets the point.
So that they are now more likely to get more than 12 and be included even though they all existed.
So, and again, I asked Richard Kirir about this and he said, yes, you are actually correct, Camille.
And he acknowledged that Dmitry Rates should get the point, meaning that his original score
scoring in the book is not correct. So that's one issue that we discovered. Another issue
is a problem with vagueness. So Camille, people are saying your mic is coming in and out too much
and I want to try and see if we can get that rectified. Just I want you to come in through
clear so everyone's enjoying this because this is getting into the deep stuff that I think is
important. If we're going to be honest, right, like what people are sincerely asking, you know,
why would you come to a conclusion that there was a guy or maybe a guy existed? Well,
we need to get into all that, right? Try it now, Camille. You're muted. It's not working.
I just want to get it right before we keep going. Sorry, I think we need to start a fundraiser for
Camille to get a new mic and cord. Right? Someone thinks it's internet connection and not the mic.
I want to get it right because I want people who are going to play this later,
you know, they can't misunderstand anything he's saying. Would we like to use this to
potentially catch up on some of the super chats and stuff? We can while he gets that ready. Yeah.
That's what Terrick again. Thanks, Brother Justin Sledge. Dr. Justin Sledge for those who don't know.
Thank you for the support of the channel with the super chat. Durand says, shut up. Take my money.
I will. Thank you so much. Michael Beverly says, I'm curious why we all agree with Airman at all.
We have copies of copies of copies, but all of a sudden the mention of James is infallible evidence.
I don't know anybody says that, but there might be a few people who sound that way. I don't know.
Explain why we know Josephus was doctored, etc. So the James references almost universally taken
by scholars to be authentic, mostly because it's just such a small passage that it doesn't look
like something a Christian would interpolate. As we know from the Testimonium Flavianum,
Christians on occasion were more prone to elaborate interpolations of that kind.
Also, nothing in it is necessarily on the face of it, non-Josephine and like terminology or style
or anything like that, unlike the Testimonium Flavianum, which has some clear stylistic problems.
But I'm just going to go out and say that I don't actually agree with Airman or others like him.
And I actually think all of the references to Jesus and Josephus are inauthentic. And actually,
so does Cam's professors, Ivan. And they still think there might have been a guy,
or most likely was a guy. Yes, Ivan is still a minimal historicist. And I've talked to him
over email a number of times on this. Last one here. And we're not going to answer this one now,
because Antonio is a friend of mine. They're in Brazil. Right now, I think there's this
fascination with this very question that we started five years ago, really online. It got
really, really popular with mythicism. But they're, I think, mostly persuaded by mythicism at the
moment. But hopefully, by the end of this, we can come back to the Super Chat and address this
question, because they want just the evidence. They just want the evidence. Just give us Jesus.
Come on, and we'll think there was a guy. I don't know if this could be persuasive without all of
this that we're actually factoring in before we end up getting to this conclusion. So.
How is the audio now? You're a little quiet. Try now.
Yeah. So I basically decided to dig the microphone all together. And I'm just going
with the integrated mic. So the can you really quick go into your mic settings and turn up your
gain? Yeah, because it's whispering to us right now. We need confidence. We need preaching from you.
I do. I love the way that this is heading, because now we're able with this kind of
angle, we're able to incorporate a larger set to work with. And interesting to see how historical
figures and myth start to mix. And if we're going to apply that to other historical figures that I
don't think anyone doubts existed, we start noticing certain things that are applied to those
guys. Let's just say Caesars, for example. Why can't we also apply the same kind of thing when
we're looking at someone like Jesus? Anyway. Did you figure it out, Camille?
Yeah, I'm trying.
You can't bump me up on your end, right? You what?
You can't increase the volume on your end, right? Yeah, I had. It is sounding a little better now.
Yeah, I'm not. I'm not sure if I'll be able to do anything because it's just an
I think it is his internet. Yeah, it looks like the problem's not your microphone.
You're still bugging out. So your internet's the problem, actually. Your internet connection.
Yep. And I think we should go back to the mic because he sounded good as long as it was working.
Okay, while that happens, because I don't want to distract, get people bored here in the chat,
350 people watching, Chrissy teases. What are we getting ourselves into here? Do you have any idea?
Yeah, so there are several problems going on right now. So what we've just previously covered
is that we've already found cases where there's clear evidence of a double standard going on.
You end up with points that people are applying in consistently. So for example,
you know, you get that whole point where the hero is supposed to be killed at birth,
then we change that with carrier changes that to as a baby to make sure that Jesus scores.
But then he does not go back and correct his scoring on Joseph. Joseph should score 11 if
we were to actually take that wording literally. So the wording can't be taken literally. And then
we showed that carrier even admits this so that the wording needs to be altered again to he's
an attempt is made on the hero in childhood or similar. So what the case seems to be is that
there's a double standard going on because then despite the fact that he's going to retain Joseph,
he doesn't retain Mithridates of Pontus, who by all counts should also score that point because
there was a threat on his life as a child. And where we're about to go with this is that there's
even more problems with all the points, which is that a lot of the points are so vague that you can
just there are an infinite number of ways that you can apply them. And there's a lack of consistency
there as well. Camille, go into your settings and make sure you have that mic on just to make sure.
I should be using the correct one now. And I changed the internet connection. Is it better?
Yeah, you're better now. Yes. Much better. All right. So I'm on my phone, on my phone,
on my phone data, but I might actually run out of data at some point. So then I'll have to pay for
extra and it might take a couple of minutes for that to go through. But that's all right. So let's
just plow through this, right? So the other issue that we found in scoring is what we call a
problem of weakness. And basically, when Raglan describes how various fictional heroes score,
for example, this point, right, which just says, for a time, the hero rates 11 fully,
he changes the wording. So it can mean peacefully, prosperously, zoos range supreme,
which I don't know what it's supposed to mean, right? In some cases, just the fact that the
narratives omit events taking place during the hero's reign is enough for the person to score,
which in some cases mean the fewer sources we have preserved, the more likely the people
are to score this because we only have fragmentary information about them. The last line is actually
Heracles, where in this case, it reaches because Heracles gets the point just because he stays
in Caledon, quote, unquote, quietly. But Heracles never actually rules Caledon,
he just stays at the court of the local king for some time, right? And that's all that it takes
him to score the point. And what's also interesting is Richard Carrier actually
precise the wording to remove some of the vagueness, but he then forgot to, again, go back
and check if any of the fictional heroes should now lose the point because they no longer qualify
under this precise definition, right? So he says that the hero only scores if he rules without
wars or national catastrophes. But for example, he still gives the point to zoos who, of course,
there are wars taking place under Zeus's rule. Some of the war zoos even personally
participated in other combatant. So for example, Giganto Machia, the war against the giants.
Here is the famous depiction of Zeus on the altar of from Pergamon. Another example is Thesis, who
actually personally fights in at least five different wars during his reign. So here we have
a Roman sarcophagus, which depicts one of these conflicts, the Cantauromachia, the war against
the centaurs, which Plutarch, which is one of the biographers, one of the sources for Thesis,
says point blank that he went with to war with them. Even though in this case, this might be the
elusive Schrodinger's point that Richard Carrier took away from Thesis, because you have to keep
in mind that he can no longer remember why he downscored Thesis. So for all we know, this could
be the one. I do not know, only God knows. And this is, by the way, not the only point that Thesis
should have lost if we stuck to the strict wording of these attributes. I'm going to talk
about other examples as well. And Carrier also didn't downscore Heracles, even though Heracles
actually does go to war during his stay in Caledon, which is the reason why he gets the point
in the first place. So again, the attributes are rewarded, but then there are inconsistencies in
scoring. So you always have to go back and check and update your scores depending on how you tweak
your definitions. But if there are people who don't know how the scoring is actually done,
well, it's going to be much harder for them to find any historical examples.
Another cases are just inconsistencies that result from just straightforward historical errors.
So for example, Richard Carrier says, when he's scoring Metridates, that Metridates doesn't get
to point for parents being related, so his mother and his father being interrelated,
because there is no actual evidence that they were. If I said this during my doctoral exam,
they would make me fail. So here is the family tree of Metridates, and all the red lines
are instances where his ancestors on his paternal and maternal sites are related.
So one really interesting case is that Salausid king, Antiochus III,
had a number of children. He had two brothers who were both named Antiochus. One of them is
Antiochus IV Epiphanes, who is famous from the Bible, from the book of Daniel, right?
And he also had a daughter, Laudis IV, and she actually married in turn both of her brothers,
because there were a lot of sibling marriages going on in these Hellenistic dynasties,
and from those two unions were born ancestors of Metridates VI,
both on his paternal and his maternal side. So in one case, his mother, and in the other case,
his paternal grandmother. So there is plenty of evidence that his parents were related,
and he was his own cousin multiple times over because of how these relationships work.
Yeah, and compare this to Moses, who gets the same point from Raglan and Kerri, right? Here in
this case, he only gets the point for one interbreeding, one instance interbreeding, basically.
So if anything, Metridates should get the point even more so than Moses, right? And what's really
funny is that in both cases, the exact same pattern of interrelatedness exists, right? So in both cases,
the hero's father is a nephew of the hero's mother. So if Metridates doesn't get the point,
then Moses definitely shouldn't get it either, right? And these are just some of the worst examples.
So we don't actually have time here to cover all the issues with how Raglan and Kerri score.
And all of these issues are documented in great detail in one of the articles with all the
references to all the primary sources, all the discussions and stuff like that. One of the reasons
why we decided to split the research into two different articles is because there was just
so much to cover in terms of how this scoring is actually done in case of the fictional heroes,
that there was just no way how to put everything into like 30 pages, right?
Cam and I, for our first paper, Cam and I went through every single one of these points,
and just about every single point has some kind of inconsistency in scoring, just in
Carrier's work alone. Raglan inconsistently scores just about every single point as well.
And it creates a huge number of problems. This one is one where it's very apparent,
and also the previous one, but also what it even means to be like a son of God
becomes very dubious as a point of application.
Yeah, so what we actually did, as Gracie just mentioned, we went through all of the attributes,
all of the heroes, and all of the primary sources for them, or at least the major ones, right?
The ones that are actually used for scoring. And we very carefully checked how Raglan and Carrier
score, and then we rewarded the attributes so that they reflect the real scoring practices.
And then we used this as the tool for scoring historical figures so that we do it consistently
with how Raglan and Carrier score their fictional figures. And when we did that,
well, then we started finding historical examples, right? Which is not surprising when you think about
it, because when Raglan and Carrier deviate from the strict wording of the attributes,
they are being more inclusive. So it's easier for a hero to score high, regardless of whether
the hero existed or not. So just to go through this real quickly and explain who exactly,
which fictional heroes necessitate the changes in wording. When it comes to point number one,
the mother needs to be royal, but royalty in practice just means high social status. So for
example, mothers of Joseph or Moses were not queens or princesses. Also, Carrier changed
Raglan's wording in this point from royal virgin to just virgin, but then he consistently
didn't also downscore all the heroes whose mother was only royal and not a virgin.
So for example, Moses is explicitly said to have a brother who is three years older than him,
Aaron, right? So Moses's mother, God bless her heart, she definitely wasn't a virgin when she
had Moses. And she wasn't royal if you interpret this very literally. So we actually had to put
royalty back into the definition so that Moses doesn't lose the point, but also we have to say,
well, you don't have to be a queen or a princess, you can just be a noble, because then there are
fictional Raglan heroes who get to the point, even though their mothers are not like queens or
princesses. And there's one more vagueness also here, which is what does virgin actually entail?
Was the conception meant to be virgin as in like the case of Jesus? Or is it specifically
that she's just a virgin upon conception, which doesn't necessarily have to be sexless,
like the case of Romulus, which in all cases is a sexual reproduction. It involves like a full
penetration. So like there's another vagueness there, which is what even virginity is implying here.
Yeah, if you go with sexless conception, then nobody gets the point, I think, right?
No, not the heroes, because yeah, in no case, it's said that the mother
like state a virgin after conception, because it's just a sexual conception.
Maybe you might get a point with Danae, because she gets impregnated by golden rain,
but I don't know how that works like this anatomically, you know.
Yeah, so with point number three, we included make sure to to say distant relatives, because
for example, in the case of Oedipus, his parents are only very distantly related to cutlass.
So they have a common ancestor, but it's like, I don't know, 15 or 16 generations back. And also
Joseph, Jesus's parents are related on the traditional view that one of the gospel genealogies
tracks Mary instead of Joseph. But that's also a very distant
generations and generations removed. Yeah. Yeah. And the carrier said that if this was in
actually in couples, it wasn't just a harmonization that was developed later,
it would count for the purposes of scoring. So we just make sure to reflect this. Number six,
we've already talked about this, right? So it doesn't have to be at birth or during childhood.
Plus, in the case of Thesis, there is no actual attempt made at his life at any point. There is
only a concern about it. Basically, the story is that before Thesis is born, his father is worried
that his cousins might conspire against him in the future at some point, right? So he has his mother
stay and be, stay and give birth somewhere else, other than Athens. So Thesis isn't actually born
in Athens, but there is no attempt. There's just a concern about it. But still he gets the point,
but for a miracle. Yeah. When it comes to number seven, Dionysus and Joseph are not spirited away.
They are just safe from death. But when it comes to number eight, either condition is fine. So for
example, both Romulus and Moses are really actually very close to where they came from.
Moses is literally down the stream from his house by his biological mother as well, right?
Because she became the wet nurse. Well, Romulus is just like a few hours walk away.
It's literally just, it is close, the distance between where he lived and where he was born
is smaller than the distance between me and Walmart.
Yeah, there you go. And also between me and Walmart, but that's probably like several thousand
kilometers. All right. So when it comes to number nine, no details about childhood. There are
actually exceptions to complete silence. So for example, you know, in the Bible, there are no
details about Moses's childhood, but we get to know quite a lot about it from later sources,
especially from Philo. And also there actually are details of Jesus's childhood,
even in the Gospel of Matthew that Carrier uses to score Jesus that are not covered by other
attributes. Right. So it's not actually the data is complete silence in Jesus's case.
When it comes to number 11, this doesn't have to be a little monster or like a named enemy,
or like a single enemy, and it doesn't even have to be in a physical combat. So for example,
Moses gets it for magical victories, which is what Raglan says over the pharaoh,
just gets it in a victory in a contest of dream interpretation, which sounds like bullshit,
right. I guess against the Egyptian magicians who are not named in the story. Jesus gets it
for his victory over Satan's temptations in the wilderness, the Gospel of Matthew.
Number 14, that's the point that I highlighted as being super vague. We actually gave this point
only when the ancient sources were really clear one way or the other. Right. And so they explicitly
said that the ruler ranked peacefully or successfully, or we didn't give it when it explicitly said
that, you know, it's not or they don't. When it gets to number 16,
this doesn't have to include all the subjects. For example, it can just be a conspiracy
of some of the subjects, like in the case of Osiris. When it comes to point number 17,
Romulus gets it only because there's an agreement to depose him. So no way actually dethrones him,
he's not the specific or anything like that. Also, you breaking up bad Camille, repeat that again.
Yeah, if that happens, I don't know what to do. I can try different connection and different
mic. I don't think it's your mic. I think it is the internet. Because we did that, you were working
good for a while and then now it's like really glitching out bad again.
That's weird. Because I'm on mobile data, which should be fine. I'm not sure.
Yeah, I don't know what it is. Do you want to play this or do you want me to switch to the mic
that I was using before? Do what? Do you want me to change the mics or do you want me to continue?
I think it's worth continuing. I'm almost tempted to say if you turned off your camera,
it might give more bandwidth to what you're saying and then we could try you sending me
or sending Chrissy or me the visuals, that might be combined with the video and stuff
affecting the mic. I can also continue this point as well because I have the data here too.
Point 17, the big one here is the intent to dethrone counts, but so does him just leaving
of his own will. For example, Raglan scored Heracles this point and Carrier also apparently
does because he doesn't disagree with the score for Heracles for leaving Caledon of his own free
will and he leaves after also being specifically pardoned by the king. Romulus gains the point
because his deposition had been decided upon, quote, that's I believe from Plutarch,
but he's not actually like ever driven out of a throne or a city. He's according to rumor just
immediately killed by the Senate. Then outside of the Mediterranean, you see a similar trait,
so like King Arthur is given this point by Raglan despite the fact that he is just
abroad of his own free will. This does not actually have to entail that they're actually
driven from a throne or city to score and this inconsistency is seen in the way that Carrier
scores this point as well. The next one is that he meets with a mysterious or obscure death.
This is like one of the most singularly debated points because it's extremely vague how to apply it.
So for example, this point is given to several Greco-Roman heroes like Belarophon, Jason, Perseus
and Theseus for their deaths being basically insufficient or there being multiple different
accounts of their deaths. So like if there's contradictory accounts of someone's death,
they score the point according to Raglan and you see this also with the consistency which Carrier
accepts these scores as well. Other examples are like the ascensions into heaven count as
mysterious and so do just vague disappearances as well. So like Elijah gets this point for ascending
into heaven even though he also ascends alive. Elijah doesn't die and he scores this point.
So this point also can be very loosely applied and has to otherwise we have to start
downscoring people on Carrier's list as well. Point 20, his immediate successor is not his
child as another one. So for example, Oedipus is succeeded by Crayon, his uncle. Theseus is
succeeded by Menaceus who has no kinship. But despite this afterward, his relatives Dimofon and
Idiocles become kings of Athens and Thebes respectively. So it's only the immediate successor.
Children can rule after an immediate successor. They just can't be the one that is directly
succeeding their father to score this point. We can also look at just the last two here.
So his body is not buried or turns up missing is how Carrier worded it.
This reformulation allows Jesus to gain the point, mere silence and uncertainty or even
like contradiction in ancient sources about burial or burial place however also counts
according to Raglan. So he gives Asclepius, Belarophon, Jason, Oedipus, Theseus,
Perseus, and Watogonong all this point despite the fact that they're all said to be buried but
there are contradictory accounts on most of them. Others are said to ascend as well. Point 22,
the hero has one or more sepulchres or is granted divine honors after death.
Contra Raglan's original wording, basically anything goes and this is seen in just all
the points that he lists. So for example, you can have a holy sepulchre without an unburied body
like Pelops and Zeus. You can have holy sepulchres with a buried body as well. You can have a holy
site in general just be a place of interest. We also wanted to cover dyes at the top of a hill
or a high place as well because that one's also inconsistent. A high place can just literally
be any elevated position. So for example, Robin Hood and I'm going to butcher this pronunciation,
Lovegifts, it's I think Irish. They both score the point.
Robin Hood gets that point just for being on the second floor.
I had a consonant.
Can you guys see me? Yep, I can hear you.
All right. I was just finishing up all these points.
Oh, you're cutting out again. I had to shut down literally everything.
Yeah, I was just finishing up all these points for you so that you could move on after this.
But yeah, Raglan gives this point to Zeus because quote, hill tops are particularly sacred to him
unquote. That's it. Not because he dies at the top of a hill, just because hills are sacred.
It can also be like a hill or mountain in the case of Heracles. It can be a cliff
in the case of Theseus. And none of these are particularly challenged by Carrier either.
Jesus, by contrast, is not actually said to die at the top of a hill in these scriptures.
This is a later tradition. He said that he dies at Golgotha, but it's a tradition that this was
a hill, not outright stated. So this also causes an issue that Carrier is mixing and melding later
traditions about Jesus with the actual accounts going on. Other figures also score this despite
the fact that their deaths are not related to hills. So for example, Barofan
attempted ascent into the sky, unquote. Dionysus, quote, ascends Olympus, unquote. Elijah is magically
brought down fire from heaven to a mountaintop, unquote. And Sigurd passed through a ring of
fire on a hilltop. So basically, if there is anything to do with just spatial elevation,
it basically scores this point the way that they actually apply it.
All right, I'm back. Can you hear me?
Yep. Yes.
Okay. So I shut down literally everything except for stream yards and let's hope for the best.
So I'll tell you just to move the slides, right? So you can move the slides.
Yep. Yeah. Okay. So here's the list of the 33 historical ancient Mediterranean ranker glana
heroes that we've discovered. And I have eight examples. So let just let me know how many you
want to go through. And we can go through them. So if you're if you're fine, these are his four
figures, correct? Just to be on the same for every single one of these is agreed by historians
with basically unanimous consensus to be historical.
Got it. Yeah. Okay, so let's go through the first example. So let's start with Alexander the Great.
He, as I mentioned, was scored with Carrier, but that was done inconsistently with fictional heroes.
So we just redid it. In some cases, it seems also that Carrier scored him based on what actually
happened in history and not on what the ancient sources say. But that obviously cannot be applied
consistently because then all the fictional heroes would always just get zero points, right?
Because there isn't anything that they actually did in history. Also, Jesus obviously is only
a ranker glana hero in the Gospels, like the historical Jesus that's reconstructed by scholars
wasn't a ranker glana hero. So, you know, you have to just also take into account the sources say,
even if it's not historical. So when you score Alexander consistently with how raglan and Carrier
score all the fictional heroes, he actually gets 19 out of 22 points, right? So we can just quickly
run through this. So his mother is the queen of Macedon, Olympias. His father is either the king,
Philip II of Macedon, or actually a king of Egypt, because in the Alexander Romans,
like his biological father, is a king of Egypt, not Philip. Both of his parents are related
because both of his parents traced their lineage to Zeus. He was conceived by Zeus according to
the sources. So he was considered to be his son. When he is young, his father threatens to kill him.
This is even depicted in the Oliver Stone movie, right? Which actually prompts him to flee his
father court and stay away from him because he's afraid of his life for a time. He's educated by
Aristotle. When it comes to tutors and guardians, we only gave this point if the hero was tutored by
a known named tutor away from where they otherwise lived. So for example, we didn't give it to
Alcibiades, even though his tutors are known. So we have their names because he was just
educated in Athens as far as we know, right? But in the case of Alexander, we actually gave the
point because Alexander was tutored away from the Macedonian court. And this is, by the way, much
more strict than what Raglan and Kerir do when they, for example, score Joseph, because they say
that Joseph scores this point just because he was sold to slavery in Egypt when he was 17. So,
you know, if he gets the point, then Alexander definitely gets the point. When it comes to number
11, there's actually a number of ways how to, why Alexander should get this point,
because he's victorious. For example, in athletic competitions, what I like is that he tames the
famous horse Buckefalos, who goes with him all the way to India and dies. And one of the cities
that Alexander founded was actually named Buckefalia after the horse. And this is really cool because
in the sources, him taming the horse is actually deliberately modelled after Heracles, because
Heracles gets this point for defeating various monsters. And one of his 12 labours was stealing
the man-eating horses of Diomedes. And in the Alexander romance, Buckefalos is actually called
a man-eater. So when Alexander tamed him, he basically completed the same labour as Heracles.
So again, if Alexander doesn't get this point, then nobody should, right? Like when you have a hero
whose narrative is deliberately being modelled after a different rank-la-grand hero, on the same
point, then you need to give the point. Otherwise, like this whole thing doesn't make any sense.
It's supposed to track mythological patterns, patterns of mythologisation. So Alexander also
marries multiple princesses. He becomes a king. He reigns peacefully for 30 years. I don't know if
you knew this, but actually in the Alexander romance, the conclusion of the story gives this
historically inaccurate summary of his reign that says that he reigned peacefully for 30 years.
This didn't actually happen, of course. Like Alexander died relatively shortly after he
concluded his campaigns. But again, you have to score also what the sources say, not just what
happened in his story. So we can definitely give him a point for that. Just as a competitor, Jesus
gets this point because his peaceful reign is like a week or something, right? Between his anointing
and his crucifixion. When it comes to the point, of course, he legislates to his subjects. We have
a lot of his laws recorded. He's killed by a conspiracy of his subjects. So his subjects
turn against him. I also, apart from this, I counted like 13 different instances when his
subjects either conspire against him or revolt against him. For example, when he returns from
India to Babylonia, he discovers that many different officials or groups of people have
defected from him when he was gone. So he needs to go to reconquer or punish them. So again,
if Alexander doesn't get this point, nobody should. That probably isn't a hero about whom we have
so many different instances of his subjects revolting against him documented as we have about
Alexander. Then he, of course, is killed. His death is accompanied by divine omens,
just like Jesus is. Point number 19 is that he dies in the royal palace in Babylon,
which is located on a hill. So that's one of the instances where it's a high place. His children
don't succeed him. This is actually a pointed career gives him, even though I think this is not
correct, because Alexander is immediately succeeded by his son, Alexander IV, son of Roxane. Only later,
there is a war about his succession. But if Richard Carrier gives him the point,
who am I to argue with that? And of course, he's granted divine honors. So he scores 19 points.
So we can move to Caesar Augustus. Let's next slide.
And I originally scored Caesar on my own. Caesar Augustus doing research for the Raglan archetype
way back before Cam and I even actually started working together on this.
Like we have the mother is a noble. She is the niece of Julius Caesar. So very, very noble,
the niece of one of the most important people in Roman history. His adopted father was Julius Caesar,
so he had royalty for father and adopted fathers do count. We can show multiple examples of that.
Julius Caesar was a great uncle of Atia. So we have the relation going on. Mother,
it was said to be impregnated by a deity. He was reputed to be the son of Apollo specifically.
The Senate decrees to kill any boy born in the same year. His father dies when he is four and
his mother remarries the same year. So he had a step parent, a step parent, a foster parent.
Almost nothing is known of his childhood. And this is true. We have exceptionally little
about his childhood in any of our biographical sources for Augustus.
After Julius Caesar's assassination, he goes to his future kingdom, Rome. He defeats
numerous enemies throughout his life, including his, because he's adopted by Julius Caesar,
his stepbrother, Caesarean. He marries Claudia, who is again of royalty, becomes the first Roman
princeps, closes the temple of Janus, prescribes laws. There were rumors that he was poisoned by
his wife, Livia. Death accompanied, but was accompanied by divine omens. So there was,
there were divine foretellings and signs of his death. There was then a staged apotheosis of
him ascending into heaven. And there were even supposed eyewitnesses to the event. And then
after death, he is of course granted divine honors. And there was also a temple of Augustus.
I just want to make a comment real quick, Neil, if that's okay. I'm noticing a trend here with
both characters and I'm hoping the audience is catching it because we've got a super chat we're
going to end up getting to at the end. And that is the idea like, hey, the Antonio, my friend here
who's super chatted, I might as well bring it up so people can see it. But we should deal with
us more later as we get through some more of these people that are historical and how they have
modeled these figures in their writings, much like the myths. So we're dealing with historical people
that in many ways model, reflect, imitate, act like whatever kind of words you want to describe,
like mythical, non-existent figures and heroes from the Greek and Roman. And then if you're
dealing with biblical, you might even deal with biblical antecedents. But I noticed that you did
this with Alexander the Great and showed Heracles. So there's overlap between the labors of Heracles,
potentially other mythical figures I imagine in his life. Caesar Augustus, you just showed us,
Chrissy, is modeled after a mythical figure called Apollo. This is the sun, correct?
Yep. And very specifically when it comes to Roman emperors, a large model for their lives also becomes
both Julius Caesar and Romulus. A lot of their lives are made to mirror Julius's and Romulus's.
So they're meant to mirror historical and non-historical mythical figures. So this is not black
and white and so simple that people could just, oh, we, like, we should be cautious when we're
investigating this is my point. So far looking at this, two historical figures match all of these
numbers in the raglan kind of trope also existed, no reason to think they didn't exist here,
and yet are modeled after non-existent figures as well as potentially historical figures.
Yeah. And in the case of Caesar Augustus, like, there are, of course, strong similarities to Jesus,
right? And it's not important, like, it's not difficult to imagine which way the dependency
would go if there is, like, a direct genetic link, right? So the story that's in Suetonians about
the decree to kill all the boys, that's very similar to what we have in the Gospel of Matthew.
When he goes to Rome for the first time after Caesar's assassination, there is a triumphal
entry scene where in one of the sources it describes that there was a divine omen,
like a rainbow corona was shining around his head. And that was obviously because
there was a prophecy of his future greatness, right? And of course, you know, the Roman emperors
were believed to ascend, the ones that were deified were believed to ascend to heaven.
That's just a standard divine translation trope that is well documented and that's like the
appropriate category to put Jesus's resurrection in, which is, you know, argued by Miller and
Littwa and so on. Okay, so let's move on.
All right, so Agatoclas, who was a ruler in Sicily, so his future greatness was prophesied.
He was actually exposed as an infant. So for example, just like Oedipus or as Romulus,
this is one of the instances where we can clearly see the same trope being replicated
for a historical person. He was saved by his father, who took him to his uncle, so he was
raised by a foster parent. Otherwise, we almost know almost nothing about his childhood. He then
comes to his future kingdom of Syracuse because he wasn't from Syracuse.
Early in his life, he has various military accomplishments. He also defeated his political
opponents. He married a princess. He is called a king in the sources, even though he was probably
formally titled Strategos autocrator. He prescribed various laws. His death was framed as a divine
punishment, so he actually lost favor with the gods. He was driven from Syracuse twice,
actually, which was the city that he ruled. There are multiple accounts of his death,
including assassination by a conspiracy. His children don't succeed him, and he wasn't buried
because he was actually burned alive. And he scores, I think, 15 if I'm not mistaken.
Yeah, so that's another example who scores pretty high. Another one is
this one, of Epirus, who fought with the Romans. So his mother was a queen, his father was a king.
We already talked about him being one of the people who were endangered as a child. He was
saved from Epirus, and he was raised by Queen of Illyria, so a foster parent. Otherwise, we
know almost nothing about his childhood. Then he returns to his future kingdom of Epirus.
He kills multiple enemies, even in personal combat. There is a great passage in his biography by
Plutarch, where you can clearly see that Plutarch modeled this after the descriptions of duels in
the Iliad in Homeric poetry. So you have, for example, Paris fighting Manilaos. Here you have
Epirus who fights a named general, enemy general. But he also, for example, killed one of the
royal kings of Epirus. He married royalty multiple times. He became a king. He prescribed laws.
His subjects revolted against him, so he was actually driven from throne, and he had to retake
it later. His death was pretty mysterious. This is a funny story, because he was campaigning,
I think, in Argos, and a random woman just threw a roof tile at him, and she hid his head,
and he died. This was so weird and unexpected that there was a rumor that he was actually
killed by the goddess Demeter. People of Argos actually set up a sanctuary or a temple of Demeter
on the spot where he died. I wasn't able to find whether he was actually granted divine
honors as well, because some of these people, even though they were technical enemies, or they
were not moral exemplars, there were sometimes granted honors as well. In ancient Greece,
this was actually more or less unconnected to a moral profile. It was more to do with
making sure that the heroes don't come back from the dead and bother people.
And also his body was not buried because he was cremated, so he scored 16 points.
So another one is Ptolemy I, Soter, which means savior, just like Jesus. He was a general of
Alexander the Great who founded the Ptolemy dynasty in Egypt, so his mother was noble. His
father was probably just noble, but there were stories later about his actual father being
Philip II that were circulated probably to boost his claim for the throne. This also means that
both of his parents were related to Amintas III, who was a previous king of Macedon. I think he was
Philip's father, if I'm not mistaken. His father, Philip, was actually hailed as a god. He was
called the 13th Olympian. Ptolemy was also exposed as an infant, and he was reared by an eagle.
So again, this is a trope. This is specifically the trope of infant exposure that's connected with
the motif of animals feeding the hero so that they don't die. We see this, for example, with
Romulus, who is, of course, nursed by a she-wolf. We see this with Cyrus the Great, who was
nursed by a dog, like a she-dog, and we see this here as well, and we are going to see
another example, I think, among the cases that I selected. What we ended up actually finding was
when you look at examples of people who get exposed at birth in ancient Greco-Roman sources,
there's actually a pretty good chance, if you were exposed at birth, that you're going to have a life
that basically gets you on the raglan archetype. Yeah, because multiple different attributes have
to do with this specific trope. That's why, for example, Oedipus scores it, Romulus scores it,
and so on. Yeah, so we are told almost nothing about his childhood. Then he goes to Egypt. He
gains various victories as a general of Alexander. This is described in great length, for example,
by Arian in his biography of Alexander. He marries a princess. He becomes the king of Egypt. He
prescribes various laws, many of them we, of course, have. He faces rebellions, just pick one. He's
driven from multiple cities, for example, in Cyprus. Then he ascends to heaven. He is granted
divine honors, just like Jesus, and he scores 15 points. Next, we have Aratus, who was, again,
a Greek general and politician. His biological father was a noble. He was a magistrate in the
city of Sceon. His actual father was reputed to be Asclepius, the god of healing. He was conceived
by Asclepius, and he was reputed to be his son in the sources. We've already mentioned how he was
in danger in his young age. He was spirited away to Argos, and he was raised there by foster parents.
Otherwise, we know almost nothing about him. He returns to Scyon. He won various victories
in his childhood or in his young age, and he actually drove the previous tyrant from Scyon.
He becomes strategos. He prescribes laws. For example, he draws a new constitution to the Achaeans.
He then loses favor with them after he lost an important battle against Sparta. He was driven
from Corinth after he lost favor with the Corinthians. They were also members of the Achaean League,
so they were counted as his subjects. His death was mysterious because he was assassinated
and the assassination was told to be later avenged by Zeus. He was assassinated by Philip V,
who was one of the last kings of Macedon before the kingdom was taken over by the Romans. His
children don't succeed him, and he was granted divine honors in Sceon. He was specifically
called Soter, a savior, just like Jesus. Next, we have Plato, because people are not like all
generals and kings and politicians. Plato is also a Raglan hero, so his mother is a noble,
his father is also a noble. Both of them traced their lineage to the god Poseidon, his mother
through Solon, the famous law giver in Athens, his father through Kodros, who was one of the
primordial kings of Athens. He was also believed to be conceived by Apollo, so he was reputed to
be his son. He was exposed as an infant by his parents, and he was reared by bees. So again,
here we have the trope where the infant is exposed and animals take care of him. In this case, it's
bees, because bees are very important animals in Greek mythology. So basically, when bees show up,
or you see like a beehive somewhere, that's definitely like a divine omen that the gods are
involved. There are various examples like Pindar, Hippocrates, and so on. Apart from that, we are
again told almost nothing about his childhood. In one account, he's actually born outside Athens,
so he comes to Athens. He was an accomplished soldier. So again, like when you have this
biography of a great hero, you need to say that he was like a very brave and courageous,
and he did well in battles and stuff like that. He founds and becomes the head of the academy.
This is how we score him as a ruler. It's important to realize that again, it doesn't have to be a
literal king, because for example, Moses is not a king. Joseph also is not a king. He literally
wrote the laws, one of the famous dialogues. He was famous with some of his subjects. For example,
his student Aristotle deserted him and set up his rival school in Athens. He's driven from a city,
specifically from Syracuse. His death was accompanied by divine omens, just like Jesus is,
and his children don't succeed him as headmasters of the academy. So he scores 16 points.
And the last hero that I want to highlight is Cleopatra. Cleopatra VII, but this is one that
everyone knows. So her mother is a noble, of course, queen. It's not entirely clear who her
mother is, but all of the candidates are queens, obviously. Her father is the previous king of
Egypt. Parents were related, because basically the family tree among the Ptolemyids, that was just
a straight line, right? Because they all married their siblings pretty much. She was the only time
it's not a straight line is when they married multiple siblings, and then you have multiple
straight lines. Yeah, if you've ever played Crusader Kings, you know, exactly like why you
should do that. Why that's a good idea to marry your siblings together. Yeah. So she was reputed to
be a daughter of a god, because her father was literally titled God a new diagnosis.
She and her father, when she was young, they were forced to flee Egypt because of a revolt,
so they stayed for a number of years outside Egypt. They lived in exile. She was raised in
Italy and in Asia Minor, so at a distance. But otherwise, we know almost nothing about her
childhood. She then returns to Egypt with her father when he's instated to the throne. She
marries several kings, her brothers. She becomes queen, of course. She prescribes laws, which we
have preserved some of them. She was abandoned by her subjects, actually on numerous occasions,
during her life. But most importantly, just various people started abandoning her and defected,
defecting to the Romans after her and Mark, Mark, Anthony lost the battle of Actium.
She was some point also driven from Egypt by her brother, and she had to retake the throne with
the help of the Romans. And there are multiple different accounts of her death, like Cassius
Dio, for example, says, no one knows for sure how she died. Cool. So those are just some examples.
All of the 33 historical rank Raglan heroes are described in great detail in the article.
So you will see like a detailed description of why we gave those specific people a specific point.
And you will also get references to the practice sources so you can go and check,
which is, by the way, something that Raglan doesn't do, like he doesn't exercise primary sources.
So if you want to fact check him, you have to redo his research again, basically.
It's an absolute pain.
So if you can read the slides. Yeah, it's really wasteful. Yeah. So this is the original reference
class. This is the picture that we've already seen. This is what Carrier is basing his calculations on.
And then if we move on to the next slide, this is what we have when we put all of the newly
identified rank Raglan heroes who actually existed in. So as you can see, there is much more green
because all of them existed. So you can see that the proportion of the historical cases
versus the fictional cases skews pretty heavily in favor of, you know, Jesus's historicity.
And what's really interesting, and now I want to show that we are not complete assholes, right?
If you score consistently with how Raglan and Carrier score, you actually discover additional
fictional rank Raglan heroes, not just historical ones. And I think these are heroes that Carrier
doesn't know about because they are a little bit more obscure and because Raglan didn't score them.
For example, if you move to the next slide, one of the new fictional rank Raglan hero that we
discovered is Amtheon. So there is this twin couple, twin brothers in Greek mythology named
Amtheon and Zetas. They have two famous scenes in Greek mythology and in, you know, art, classical
art. One is a punishment of Dirke, who was a queen of thieves who mistreated their mother.
I think they just tied her to a bull. And the second scene is Amtheon specifically married
Naiobi. And she's famous because all of her children were killed by Apollo and Artemis
because of her hybris. And she later turned into stone. So that's one of the famous, you know,
metamorphosis transformation stories, right? And actually both Amtheon and his brothers Zetas
are rank Raglan heroes. And Amtheon just scores more points than his brother because there are
more stories about him. So he scores 18 points. And again, we can go through them if we wanted to.
But basically, if you score consistently, you discover more fictional rank Raglan heroes as
well. And also, we discovered that Raglan failed to give some of his fictional heroes some points
because he scored them inconsistently. So for example, Pellops should get the point for his
parents being related because they both descended from Uranus and Gaia on his father's side through
Zeus and on his mother's side through Atlas. But Raglan didn't give him the point for some reason,
right? That was probably an omission. So we can upscore Pellops by at least one point.
So if you move to the next slide, we can ask the question, why are there so many
rank Raglan historical heroes, right? And there is a couple of reasons. So if you move to the next
slide, I should probably say that the whole idea is kind of bullshit, right? It basically comes
from a period when psychoanalysis was very popular and various scholars were obsessed
with looking for universal myths and archetypes that were supposed to tell us something about
deep human psychology, about these patterns in thinking and storytelling that are universal
and consistent across cultures, just in virtue of people being interrelated and having the same
brain structures and stuff like that. But since then, anthropologists have recognized
that yes, there are tropes and yes, there are archetypes, but they are always culturally
contingent. So they are only specific to a given culture and they are disseminated through cultural
contact. And this dissemination is of course always accompanied by their transformation, right?
So it's not the case that there are like universal myths that show up everywhere around the world.
It's just sometimes you see similar tropes and archetypes either coincidentally or because
of cultural contact, you know? So cultures contacted, touched and stories were exchanged.
And if you want to find more examples from other cultures like Indonesia or Sudan,
you can only do that if you stretch the definition or the application of the attributes.
And of course, the more you stretch them, the more hits you're going to get randomly,
because there are many, many myths and many, many heroes from around the world. So if you are like
loose enough and vague enough, you will eventually get some people who will score at least something.
And then it basically becomes a Bible code. So, you know, when you arrange Hebrew letters on a page
in a certain way, it starts giving you like meaningful assages. But this is just like an
apparently meaningful pattern in random data. And it's there because that's actually expected
in white noise, right? In like non-meaningful random data. And here it's similar. Like if you
there are some extra, like the concept is tracking some actual tropes from Mediterranean antiquity.
We've already mentioned, for example, exposed infant fed by animals. But then it's also mixed
with other things. And you can only get heroes from diverse cultures. If you start stretching
these attributes, and if you exploit their weakness, sorry, their weakness. So it basically
becomes like an equivalent of Bible code, right? And another problem, and this is much more serious,
if you go to the next slide. And this is something that we've already talked about. This just doesn't
track historicity and mythicization, right? Because historical people, of course, were mythologized
using the same tropes as the fictional heroes, right? So we've seen divine patterns, divine
translations and stuff like that. And also, historical people just score a lot more points
without any mythologization going on. Like, for example, if you are a ruler who lives in turbulent
times, then you will just start scoring because, you know, there's nothing like supernatural
or mythical about a lot of these attributes. So this doesn't actually track historicity.
So it's probably not a very good tool to use to like suss out who existed or not, right? And on the
next slide, I actually have an example of a person who is not included in the journal articles,
because that's one of the people who I discovered is a rank Raglan hero after we already submitted,
right? And I want to highlight him because he scores 14 points. So he is a rank Raglan hero,
but he scores them just because of mundane things. So there isn't anything supernatural or
miraculous about him. He just is a rank Raglan hero because it's not a very good indication
of fictionality. So this is Sextos Pompeios. He's one of the sons of Pompeii the Great, who continued
resistance against Caesar Augustus and the Triumvirate after the death of Pompeii the Great.
So, you know, his mother was a noble, his father was Pompeii the Great, you know, one of the most
influential Roman politicians in the late Republic. The only thing that's kind of like
fantastical is that he called himself a son of Neptune. He was endangered as a child. So he was
taken by his father to escape danger. He was raised by step-parents. Otherwise, we don't know anything
about his childhood. He then goes to Sicily, which he ruled Sicily as a rebel leader during the
Civil Wars. He married a noble. He ruled. He was betrayed multiple times by his subjects and eventually
he was deserted by his army. He was driven from Sicily after his eventual defeat. There are multiple
different versions of his death and his children don't succeed him. So he scores 14 points pretty
unambiguously and he gets to be a Rangraglan hero. So yeah, you don't actually have to be fictional
and you don't have to even be that like magical or like supernatural in order to be included in the list.
And others have applied this to also like more recent folklore heroes as well. So like Abraham
Lincoln scores a full 22. Yes, people are like Aaron Adair are going to say, well, that's satire,
but the whole point of the satire is that he scores those points. JFK scores 15. There are
numerous examples. General Custer scores upwards of 16 to 18, depending on who's scoring him.
I've seen two different accounts of that. So yeah, it's just the point that you can just
be a mundane person that lived in semi tumultuous times and then become a Raglan hero just from
sheer coincidence. Okay, but it gets even better.
So now if you move the slides, we need to talk about a concept that's called a dramatic date.
And this is this is a concept from an apology. So from like academic studies of narratives.
And it's just a concept that tracks what is the period of time when a person is depicted as living
or like an event is depicted as taking place. So for example, the dramatic date of the movie
Titanic is the year 1912. Because that's when the ship sank. Fictional people and fictional
events, of course, have dramatic dates. For example, for example, in 1984.
Hold on one second, your internet's really, really blotchy right now. Give it just a minute.
I want you to be clear here because I think we're getting to another reason why everyone
should consider what you're saying. And this is important. Okay, is it better now? Yep.
The second, the second one came in bad. Chrissy, you can hear what I'm hearing, right?
Oh, you're muted. Yeah, yeah, it's still a bit fuzzy.
Yeah, I don't know what to do with that. Try it now. You're sounding good.
Yeah, I don't think I think I
be honest. Yeah, it's coming in pretty bad here at the end.
What I can do is just restart everything and try to rejoin if it to see if it gets better.
Yeah, let's and what we'll do is we'll recap where we're at together while you do that.
So that everyone is tracking because I could see. Yeah, go ahead and do that.
Okay. And in the meantime, what I'll do is I'll just have us on the screen.
What? What dirt? Oh, I was just going to have you and me on the screen just to kind of rehash a
little about where we're at, what we're doing, where the thinking is. So, okay, so you and Camille
have assessed this and noticed that an inconsistency of scoring and it's not just Dr. Carrier's
assessment, but Rank Raglan himself isn't being consistent when scoring some of these things.
Ultimately, in the end, Rank Raglan's system of scoring might be useful for certain things,
but it's really not going to help us get closer to if someone actually existed or didn't exist.
And this is a utilized tool, according to on the historicity.
Well, what we've been fine, it's not necessarily that's not going to get us closer.
As we're going to see here in just a little bit, we're going to find another way of actually
giving it some more utility here with dramatic date. But what we have seen is that
the idea that there are no Raglan heroes is predominantly, it can only be true if there
are basically double standards applied. So that there are only mythical Raglan heroes and that
Jesus is at best the only exception is only true if we just apply a double standard of
basically judiciousness towards our mythical heroes and applying points to them and then
undo skepticism towards all the historical figures. So you see that double standard applied
when Carrier, for example, scores Mithridates, but you also see the inconsistencies already
apparent when Raglan created the archetype in the first place. Those points were never stable
to begin with. And there was always a wide range of interpretive freedom allowed in each of those
points to be born of a virgin does not mean to be literally born of someone who was a literal
virgin at that point. But it mostly just means that you descend from royalty the way that Raglan
uses it. Or it could also mean that you were born of a virgin, both of them are applicable.
It's not an if it's not an if or situation there or and or situation. The what we're also seeing
is that basically, we've already to an extent undermined Carrier's own archetype, because
we've basically just overwhelmed it now with brute force. But what we're about to see is that
there's another added technical point. So we're basically going to argue that we should be applying
another point to the Raglan archetype like a 23rd point, which is going to be our dramatic date.
Okay. And when that dramatic date comes up, it's going to get really important because now
the archetype, the Raglan archetype is actually going to become exceptionally useful at that point.
Okay, okay. This is really good. We're right here at the cusp of the the precipice here of where
we're going. So we have historical figures who should be factored in looked like there were more
than there were mythical. So this should change numbers in our estimation of prior probability.
And I'm not a mathematician in any way. So I can't even assess this. But I already know that it
should change that prior probability calculation. Number two, you have historical figures that
are modeled after non historical myths. And so it starts to get messy because historical figures
are modeled after earlier historical figures who've been legendary and mythologized themselves
after earlier myths. And they themselves are mythologized after earlier myths, like we talked
about Augustus. These are historical people that existed. To go a step further that wasn't mentioned
at all, that I felt like is an area that we could explore in its own right, is how many
historical figures were deified and worshiped. Okay, we didn't even get into this, but...
Well, we kind of touched on it with a lot of them are given these divine honors. So like
Augustus is given the temple of Augustus, in effect, like Roman
Caesar's being given temples and their honors where they are worshiped as deities is just
exceptionally common. That was standard practice. You can understand why I wanted to say this,
because people imagine humans worship gods. Non, if you want to take the skeptical,
complete route that they don't believe they exist, okay, they're mythical. Even if you don't,
even if you do take that you think they exist, you can still grant that the mythical legendary
stories and mythical stories about these non-existent characters doing things didn't happen. My point
is they're worshiping these people. We have Jesus. He's worshiped. He's claimed to be born,
like all of these attributes and aspects of him that are written in our New Testament.
And we're trying to find out whether or not it's more likely this was a dude who got mythologized
or if this was completely mythical non-existent person. And the only way we can come to assess
that without having his bones, his ossuary, his actual, and that's what they want, which we're
not going to ever get for them as far as I'm aware. We have to assess this based on analogous
examples. And then this final point we're about to get to. So I'm following and tracking you,
and this is what I've been trying to say for now over a year or two, since becoming more persuaded
by the historicist argument. And one other caveat we noted as well is that a lot of these points
are also just fairly generic. Like, you become king, you prescribe rules. Well, of course,
if you're king, you're going to prescribe laws. That kind of just comes with the definition of
being a king and stuff like that. A lot of these points are just so general that you can score
rather large number of them just by existing. So for example, and becoming a ruler does not
even necessarily mean becoming king of a land. In Plato's case, and Jesus's case, it just means
being a really good teacher. So what you end up having, and so Plato led the academy, I actually
for just as a joke for myself, I scored myself on the Raglan archetype, because I'm also a
genealogy nerd. I do a lot of my own family genealogy. And I can trace my genealogy all the way back
to King Henry VII. And because I can trace it to King Henry VII, I can also trace it back down into
old English times and use the Anglo-Saxon chronicles. And I can trace my genealogy all the way back to
the God Odin. And I can tell you right now, because of this, my family tree ends up giving me
a whole lot of these points, just because after hundreds of years, I happened to just be related
to a king and be a descendant of one. And so I could start scoring things all over the place.
I score a good number of these just by sheer coincidence.
Yeah, also, it's also going to depend on how you die, right?
Yeah, exactly. And personally, I plan on going out very, very mysteriously.
All right, so back to the dramatic date, right? So just to reiterate, by the way, is it better or?
Yes, much better. Cool. So just to reiterate, dramatic date is just when a person is depicted
as living. Well, I should emphasize that it's not the amount of time that elapsed between when the
event took place or when the person lived, and when the text about the event or the person was
written, right? So this is not about, like, how quickly the metallurgization happened or anything
like that or how early the sources are. It's just the absolute date of when the person is depicted
as living. So when are these ancient Randraglan heroes depicted as living? Well, if you move the slides.
Yeah, when they are depicted as living. So this is the breakdown, right? This is everyone.
Both carriers, original Randraglan heroes and the new ones that we have discovered.
And this is a pattern. Okay, that's not a random distribution.
So you can very clearly see that all of the people who are fictional, with the exception of
Romulus, are all depicted as living in very distant past, usually roughly around the Trojan War.
Sometimes it's before. So for example, Zeus, if you don't know about it, he was born in 1700 BCE,
because the Greeks had a, they worked out a chronology of their own myths. So they would be
able to give you the exact like date when the earth was created and stuff like that, right? So Zeus,
I think, if I'm not mistaken, was born in like 1700s BCE. Some of them are more recent, but it's
important that they are depicted as living in very distant past. The historical Randraglan heroes
that we found, on the other hand, are all depicted as living in much more recent times. And if you
actually do the, if you look at the timeline, you see that the cutoff point is more or less
the 10th century BCE. So around the year 1000 BCE, right? So if you are depicted as living before,
probably didn't exist. If you are depicted as living after, probably didn't exist. It probably
did exist, right? Guess where Jesus is located? He's depicted as living after 10th century BCE,
which means if you move the slides,
we can just take this and make it into a new reference class.
And that's going to change the probabilities again. So which reference class should we use? Okay,
you can move the slides. Yeah, so which reference class is better? So now we have two different
reference classes. The first one was used by Carrier, and it has two defining features. The first one
is that the hero needs to be from Mediterranean antiquity, and they need to be a Randraglan hero.
And what we are basically doing is that we are adding one additional attribute. And that is
that the hero needs to be depicted as living after the 10th century BCE. Any point doesn't matter,
right? Jesus also confirms to this reference class. So which one is better? Well, next slide.
Ours is better because it's more detailed, right? We are adding an additional defining feature. So
according to the principle of greater knowledge or rule of greater knowledge, ours is better.
And you can move the slides. We have more members because Carrier only has 14,
and we now have 34. Why 34? Well, because we have 33 historical Randraglan heroes,
and the one fictional Randraglan hero who is depicted as living after the 10th century BCE
is Romulus, who didn't exist. So if you move the slides,
our reference class is better because it has more members. So as I mentioned before, Carrier
basically has two criteria, or reference class selection, and our updated reference class is
better on both because we are getting more detailed, we are getting more similar to Jesus,
and we also have more members. But of course, if you move the slides again,
what happens is the situation that I was describing at the beginning, right? So we have
two different reference classes, and depending which one you choose, the prior probability
is going to be very different. So if you go with Carrier's original one, it's all
that's going to give you a very low prior probability of Jesus's existence,
but if you go with ours, it's going to give you a very high prior. Because we precise if I did,
we make it more similar to Jesus. And it just happens to be the case that it's overwhelmingly
populated by people who actually existed. And that's basically the gist of the two articles.
Now what we are going to do in the rest of the presentation is basically to go through some
objections. So we are going to imagine things that your opponents of Jesus might say in response,
because in the second paper, we include objections and response to them in advance.
So if you have objection, just make sure that you go and read these articles,
because chances are it's going to be already addressed. So what are the objections?
So if you move the slides, yeah.
So the first objection is, of course, that we are scoring to slayer, right?
That we're basically trying to inclusive. And so we are making it too easy for historical
people to get included. And I suspect that this is the objection that most Jesus'
will probably try to run. Because they can't stand that their pure reference class is being polluted
by historical members, right? And so they will declare exterminatus on our scoring practices.
And they will probably make sure to do anything in their power so that any historical
people stay out of their reference class. And they will probably add various clarifications,
and they will tweak how the attributes are supposed to be used so that they can keep all
historical members out. And there are basically two responses to this, right? The first response is,
have you guys even seen how Carrier and Regrand score? If you complain that we are being too loose,
but also you accept it with a straight face that Joseph, for example, should be given the point
about being raised at the distance, just because he was sold to slavery when he was 17,
which is what Carrier and Regrand do, then go fuck yourself, right? Pergairecto in exilium,
to quote the classic. So if you want to be strict about how rank and Regrand are scored,
and you want to make sure to exclude any historical lands, you will start basically losing some
fictional rank and Regrand heroes as well. As we've already seen, Joseph is certainly out.
Yes, and not only that, but I'm going to also say, if you are going to start complaining that we're
scoring things too loosely, then I'm going to say that if we're going to consistently score
everything and score everything, like with a very stringent ruling that you want, that you can,
and you can read my first article that I did on, it's called Lord Raglan's Hero and Jesus,
since published in the Journal of Greco-Roman Christianity and Judaism.
I argue that basically no account of Jesus will score as a Raglan hero if we were to score it
stringently according to the wording.
Yeah, and actually, different people have historically gave people, have gave Jesus
wildly different numbers of points, because some people scored him very strictly, and some people
scored him very loosely, and they also rewarded some of the attributes to make sure that he actually
gets a lot of points, right? I survey all of the different people who have scored Jesus,
and the scores can range as low as eight to as high as what Carrier does at 20.
So the ranges are all over, there is no consistency.
Yeah, and of course, I can imagine that you can probably fine tune all of the ways how the individual
attributes are tweaked so that you retain only fictional members, right? And you might say that
that's a good thing, because only fictional people get included, and so the concept actually
tracks historicity, right? But you can actually achieve the same result by also taking into account
the dramatic date, and if you do that, you get a better reference class, because it's more detailed,
and you also get more members, right? So if you move to the next slide.
Yeah, so this is the same picture as before, right? So basically, I'm saying that if you want to make
the rank-ra-clan-hero concept useful as a indicator of historicity, what you should do is score the
way that we did, but also take into account the dramatic date, and you just get a better reference
class, because it's more detailed and it's bigger. And at that point, that's a checkmate, right?
Like, if you continue to argue with me, then it's just because you don't like that the updated
prior is now favoring Jesus' historicity and not-miticism. Like, I'm sorry, according to
Kerir's own criteria, our reference class is the one that we should go with, right? So,
why don't you object? Could it be the case because you don't like the probabilities now?
Might be it, might be it, right? And the second response, if you move the slides.
Yeah, the second response is basically, so what, right? Fine, okay, let's just grant
for the sake of argument that we are being inclusive and we are making it too easy
for historical people to get included. If that's the case, can you find 33 fictional
ancient Mediterranean rank-la-ground heroes who are depicted as living after the 10th century BCE,
even if you score the same way that we do? And the answer is no, right? So, if you move the slide,
there are at least 33 historical examples. There are certainly many more because,
you know, since we submitted, I've discovered several others, right? Marcus Aurelius is,
for example, a rank-la-ground hero, very probably. I haven't gone through all the sources,
but he also scores. Lukius Verus, his co-ruler, is a rank-la-ground hero as well. He actually scores
more points than Marcus Aurelius. Okay, so we have at least 33 historical examples. So why don't we
have 33 fictional examples? All right, why is it the case that we have so many people in the
green box, but we have only one example in the red box? What explains that?
At that point, it doesn't matter whether you score very strictly or very inclusively,
the pattern is still in the data. And you can only hide the pattern by either ignoring the dramatic
date or by shrinking your reference class because you also have to throw some fictional people out
like Joseph because they can't actually sustain the like very strict exclusivistic scoring.
Okay. So unless and until someone starts coming up with more people that fit inside the red box,
our conclusions hold, right? So do it the same way we did. Just give me more people in the red box.
And I can tell you, I can't promise you much in this crazy world, but I can tell you that
there aren't going to be 33. Okay. Like if there were more people like that,
I would already know about them because I've checked very, very carefully. Okay.
And that's the pattern basically that we discovered. And that pattern is very, very resistant
against how exactly you tweak your interpretation and application of these attributes. Okay.
And guess where Jesus is? He's not in the red box, right? He's in the green box.
So yeah. Next objection. Next slide. Someone might say, okay, Zeus is immortal. So he also
technically, you know, lived after 10th century BCE. We have evidence that people considered the gods
as still being active in human affairs. For example, one satire by Lucian just has Zeus
casually taking a walk in Piraeus in the port of Athens. And that story is, you know, meant to be
contemporary with Lucian because he overhears a conversation between an Epicurian and a Stoic.
And he's very amused because the Epicurian is arguing that the gods don't exist. So here we
actually in the story, we actually have a god listening to basically a conversation between
a theist and an atheist. But to this objection, so you can technically say, okay, Zeus should be
still included as living after 10th century BCE, just like Jesus, right? But we say in response,
in the next slide, that's actually a misinterpretation of how we are applying the dramatic date
attribute, because Jesus also was born after 10th century BCE, but Zeus was not, right? So we are
just basically taking a look at when the hero is depicting us living as having born and living on
earth. A similar objection is next. Someone might say, okay, Jesus pre existed his incarnation on
earth. So technically, he also was alive before the 10th century BCE. So we should put him in
that bucket, to which we say in the next slide, again, that's a misapplication of how we take
the dramatic date attribute, because Jesus was also depicting us being born and living after
this 10th century BCE, right? So yeah, sure, the Orphites, for example, thought that the serpent
in the garden is Jesus, but that's not how we treat this. And also, there are historical
rankraglane heroes who were actually believed to pre exist their birth as human beings. For example,
there are ancient texts that depict Roman emperors as divine beings who are incarnate on earth
to accomplish a mission. And then after they die, they return to heaven. So they don't become
gods. They basically start as divine beings, they ascend, they descend, and then they die and
re ascend, basically. I know that M. David Littwa argues that this was the case with Moses. So
Philo, for example, believed that Moses was a Daimoness before Daimon, before he was incarnate
as a human being. And then after his death, he was promoted to a full blown god. Not, you know,
we are away, but he was tells a next objection. Someone might say that Jesus isn't placed anywhere
completely in any time in the earliest sources. So for example, you know, very famously, Paul
doesn't say anything that would be super clear about Jesus being alive on earth in like a specific
time period. So he doesn't, for example, mention pilot. But the objection to that is
he's also not a rank Raglan hero in those sources, right? So for example, Jesus isn't a
rank Raglan hero in Paul. And if we use the gospels for scoring Jesus as a rank Raglan hero,
then it makes sense to also use them for the dramatic date. And also, and this is very important
as well, any evidential effect of the silence in the earliest sources is already accounted for
somewhere else in Carrier's formulas, right? So yes, Jesus is not depicted as living in 30 CE
in Paul, but Carrier already took care of that elsewhere, right? Next objection
is that Carrier says that also another thing that I forgot to mention,
the Carrier even says that there are, there was apparently a disagreement about when Jesus was
depicted as living, right? So for example, he claims that there is a Talmudic tradition according
to which Jesus was living under Alexander Janus, husband and king. But two points on that. One,
this is already accounted for somewhere else in Carrier's calculations. And also all of the various
proposed dates for Jesus that are supposedly in the ancient sources, like for example, him being
crucified under Claudius, which is what, what Irenaeus says, all of those are after, of course,
after 10th century BCE. So that doesn't impact what we are saying. Okay, another objection,
and I suspect the direction that Richard Carrier is going to move in the future,
because there are already signs of him doing this in his more recent published works.
He'll basically say that Jesus, on top of being a ranker glan hero, exhibits many other indications
of mythologization as well, right? So he isn't just a ranker glan hero, but he's also, for example,
a dying and rising god. He's a personal savior figure. He's a heavenly founder. He's a miracle
worker, and so on, right? So it's not just that Jesus is a ranker glan hero. It's that also he is
very heavily mythicized as well, right? But our answer to that is on the next slide. That's all
of that is already included somewhere in Carrier's Basin calculations, right? So all of these additional
indicators of mythologization are either accounted for as pieces of evidence or as elements of
background knowledge in his Bayesian formulas. So now Richard Carrier can't just change his mind
and say, well, actually the prior should be even lower without telling us where exactly he made
mistakes originally in his book when he put together these formulas and what new information
he has discovered since then so that he's now revising those numbers, right? So basically,
if you think that the prior probability of Jesus's existence should be very low because he's very
heavily mythologized, all of that is already in Richard Carrier's numbers, right? Cool. So the last
objection, the next slide. Someone might say that Richard Carrier has already accounted for the
dramatic date of Jesus again somewhere in his Bayesian calculations to which we say, all right,
let's see it because in the book Carrier basically gives two reasons why Jesus is depicted as living
in the first century. So if you move the slide, we can ask the question, why would Jesus be depicted
as living, you know, after 10th century BCE if he didn't exist? Like what explains that, right?
Why is he exceptional? Why isn't he like all of these other fictional ranker-gland heroes who are
all depicted in ancient past? Well, Carrier gives two explanations. The first explanation is that
basically in the ancient world, if you were a fictional founder, you would be depicted in the
ancient sources as living contemporary with the beginning of the institution that you supposedly
founded, whether that beginning was historical or fictional, right? So Jesus supposedly founded
Christianity so it makes sense that the sources would depict him as living when Christianity
actually started even on the mythos hypothesis which is in the 30s CE. That's the first reason.
The second reason on the next slide, Richard Carrier says that Jesus's crucifixion
was read into the prophecy in the book of Daniel because the book of Daniel chapter 9
very famously includes a prophetic timeline of future events that they did in the text using
numbers of years, right, weeks of years. And it can of course be interpreted in many different
ways corresponding to different dates and different events. And, you know, ancient
Jews had various interpretations, ancient Christians have had, right? And most of those
Christian interpretations, by the way, don't include Jesus's death at all, right? Modern
Christians, of course, have their own interpretations and so on. Next slide.
Yeah, so just to, you know, remind everyone, Daniel 926 in the verse it says in English translation
and anointed one which is a translation of the Hebrew Mashiach shall be cut off.
And interestingly enough, ancient Greek translations, both the Old Greek and the
Theodosians translation change this, basically translate this as chrisma, which is not a person,
it's the process of anointing. So the translation actually changes the meaning from
like a masculine noun to a neuter. And the reason is because these Greek translations
are already reinterpretations. Like the translators were basically the first known
interpreters of the verse and they turned Mashiach to chrisma because they already had a different
idea about what is supposed, what this is supposed to mean, right? Then the author of the book of
Daniel himself. So the act of translation is already an act of reinterpretation. And this also
probably explains to a degree why it took ancient Christians so long to actually read Jesus'
crucifixion into this verse, because we don't have it attested in the sources until the 10th of
the 3rd century. Because, you know, most Christian authors were only familiar with Greek translations
and were not able to read the original Hebrew. And if you don't know that it's supposed to say
Mashiach and you only see chrisma, you are less likely to connect it with Jesus. And by the way,
Derek, just a question. Can you, when you look at the English transliteration of the Hebrew word
Mashiach into square brackets, can you make out the literal little mark above the letter I that
kind of looks like a roof? Yes. Okay. So that's called a diacritic. And it's a way to indicate
that the word is meant to cover people, all people, regardless of gender or class, right?
So this is clearly not referring to a specific individual like Jesus.
Well, I'm just kidding. That's a joke. It's a pretty deep cut. But if you know... Oh, I know what
this is one of the Josh Bowen situation. Yeah. Yeah, I'm sure Josh will get a kick out of it,
Cam. Yeah. Yeah. So some people in the audience are probably going to appreciate this, right?
Okay. So these are the reasons that Richard Kirir gives, right? So Kirir says that basically...
Oh, okay. And by the way, how is Jesus's crucifixions? Like, how is this supposed to explain
why Jesus was placed in the first century? Well, I'll try to paraphrase Richard Kirir as
well as I can. It's a bit complicated, but he basically says something like this, right?
Early Christians might have interpreted the timeline of events in Daniel 9 in a way
that makes verse 26 land in 30 CE when they themselves lived, okay? And so they became
convinced that the celestial Jesus was crucified and raised in the cosmic realm at some point
during 30 CE in fulfillment of that prediction, right? So on Kirir's model, actually,
early Christians believe in celestial Jesus who got crucified in heaven, but that event,
that cosmic event, still had like a specific date in the calendar, right? So at some point,
it would have happened like a week ago or a month ago or a year ago, right? Because that was supposed
to be prophesized in advance in Daniel, right? And so when Gospel writers later, you homerized
the story of Jesus, they actually kept the date. They just switched from celestial Jesus to an
early Jesus, but they actually retained the dating of the crucifixion event that was supposedly
predicted by them, right? And Kirir even says that there might be like a causal connection
between early Christian, this early Christian interpretation of the dynamic timeline that
just happened to land in 30s and early Christians living in 30s, coming to believe that the resurrected
celestial Jesus is now appearing to them, right? So basically, Kirir is suggesting that the Danielic
interpretation like primed the early Christians to be more receptive to the idea that they are now
receiving revelation from this celestial being, right? Because they believe that they are living
in a period of time that was prophesied for this cosmic event to take place, okay? So this is what
explains why Jesus is depicted as living in the first century, unlike all of these other fictional
rankraglanderos on Metisism, okay? But this explanation is just so story. What we need to do now is ask
what are the probabilities, okay? So in other words, if you move the slide,
we need to ask this question. If someone exhibits this Founder Foundation alignment,
which is the first reason, how likely it is that they are existed? Did they existed? And
correspondingly, when it comes to Daniel, we need to ask if someone was read into Daniel 926,
how likely is it that they existed, okay? Like, is this again, is Jesus exceptional or is he typical?
And when it comes to the first point, if you move the slides, what we can do very easily,
yeah, we can just take the rankraglanderos, both the fictional ones and the historical ones,
and we can filter only the people who were Founders, so who founded something, right?
Most of them were city Founders, for example, Omelos. As you can see, most of them were actually
Founders of something, right? This is so common that it might as well be another narrative attribute
that gets included in the rankragland list of attributes, right? Because almost all of these
heroes were Founders. So some of them, most of them founded cities, but for example, Plato or Aristotle
founded the Fellows of his schools. Alcibiades, by the way, founded the Baptizers, right? He founded
a religious society in Athens that was called Baptai, because they practiced dunking in water
just like Christians, early Christians, and Christians today. So we can basically only
look at the rankraglanderos who are Founders, and if you move to the next slide,
you can see that the distribution of their historicity, depending on their dramatic date,
is again the same pattern as we've seen before. So again, Jesus, yes, is depicted as living as
contemporary with the beginning of the institution that he founded, but he's in the same bucket
that's almost exclusively occupied by historical people, right? So when we ask, next slide,
if someone exhibits this Founder Foundation alignment, and they are from Mediterranean
antiquity, they are a rankragland hero, and they are depicted as living after the 10th century
BC, just like Jesus, how likely is it that they existed? And the answer is, on the next slide,
very likely, right? So Jesus being depicted as contemporary with the beginning of Christianity
doesn't actually help overcome the negative probabilistic effect of the dramatic date,
because even if we take this Founder Foundation alignment into account, he is still just in
the same bucket as all of these other historical people. So if he didn't exist, he would be an
exception, and by definition, exceptions are less probable than typical cases, right? Repeat that
last sentence. We can do the same thing with the book of the next slide. Can you repeat that last
sentence again? You can actually do this same exercise. Yep. Can you repeat that?
The one before. Basically, Cam is just saying, by definition, exceptions are always less probable.
That means it'd be less likely Jesus is completely mythical than historical. Okay.
Okay. And we can do the same thing with Daniel 9. So if you move to the next slide.
Yep. Okay. Because this is the next slide. The slide one before that. It's number 118.
There we go.
Cam. The list of names. Yep. Yeah, we're on that passage.
I ancient interpreters and all of them existed.
Can you hear me okay? Yeah.
Yep. Keep going.
Yeah. Okay. Yeah. So just to reiterate, there are at least six people who are read into the
passage by, you know, various Jewish and Christian interpreters, and all of them existed. So you
have no examples of fictional people who are interpreted with this passage in view.
So again, if Jesus didn't exist, he would be exceptional. But if he existed,
he's just our people on this list. And again, exceptional cases are by definition more probable
than typical cases. So again, we can ask on the next slide.
So we can ask if someone was read into Daniel 926, and they are from Mediterranean antiquity,
and they are depicted as living after the 10th century, just like Jesus,
how likely is it that they existed? And the answer is also, again, going to be on.
Yeah. So basically, just to reiterate the counter-objection, the fact that Jesus was depicted
as living contemporary with the exception, with the inception of Christianity in the 30s,
and the fact that Jesus was read into Daniel 926, these two things do not overcome or compensate
or offset the adverse probabilistic effect of the dramatic date. If anything, they make Jesus'
historicity even more probable, not less, because people with these same properties
are almost all historical, like this pattern basically holds. Okay, so we are getting to the
final conclusion, and that's what we've probably been awaiting for. So we've presented our research,
so how do the numbers change? So if you move to the next slide.
So again, on the left is Karir's original reference class, which only has fictional members.
And as you can, because they are all fictional, his prior probability estimates are very low.
What we've shown is that we can actually improve the reference class, we can make it more detailed,
and we can make it bigger. But in virtue of doing that, it is now consisting almost entirely of
people who actually existed in history. So what does this do to the probability estimates?
Well, if you go to the next slide, for basically every probability estimate, for every category
of evidence and the prior and everything, Karir gives two numbers. The first number is
something that he calls a fortiori, which means something like from the position of strength.
And this is basically meant to be an estimate that's being maximally charitable to Jesus's
historicity without being outright irrational. So Karir here says, when I give this estimate,
I'm being the most favorable to historicity as I can reasonably be. So this is basically
him steelmanning historicity as much as possible. The second is called Ayudhikantauri, which is not
a real word, by the way. And this is essentially Karir's best estimate. It's realistic, closer to
what I honestly think the probabilities are. So the realistic estimates are basically not
like the most charitable for for methisism, you know, or like maximally uncharitable to
historicity. Because, for example, here in this passage, Karir says that if he wanted to,
he could make his estimates may weigh even more in favor of methisism than they already do.
And he in fact says that even his realistic estimates are probably too charitable to historicity.
So that's important to keep in mind. So if you move to the next slide,
if we are taking and looking at his afford theory evaluation, so we are basically being maximally
charitable to historicity with everything else other than the prior, and we use the our updated
prior, the probability increases. And that's on the next slide from Karir's original 32% to over 99%.
Right. So given our new research, we are basically over 9000.
Okay, so that's if we are being as charitable to historicity as we can with everything else.
So how does the probability changes if we actually go with Karir's realistic evaluation of everything?
Right. So if you go to the next slide, so if you if we use his like a realistic evaluation of
everything else other than the prior probability, then the final outcome increases from Karir's
0.008% to 16%. Okay. Yeah. So when it comes to his like honest or realistic estimate,
even finding 33 historical ancient Mediterranean rank Raglan heroes is not enough to offset
that number and make it more likely than not that Jesus existed. Right. And this is because
Karir thinks that the evidence is just so overwhelmingly positively against Jesus's
historicity. Right. So if you go with his like more charitable estimation, then what we are
saying is that Jesus more probably existent than not. And we are actually saying that the
probability is like very, very high. Right. But if we are going with his realistic or best
evaluation of evidence, it's still not good. Basically, we pump the probability up by a lot,
but we are still only at 16%. So what does this mean? Well,
this leaves Karir, I think, very vulnerable to revisions of his treatment of evidence in the
future. Right. Because Karir now needs to maintain that the evidence really does positively and very
strongly favor Jesus's mythicism over historicity. Because if not, then the historicity in and of
itself just in virtue of the prior is not that improbable. Meaning future research can basically
get this number up from 16% to even higher. Right. And what we should also say is that
like his realistic estimate is only 0.008%. That's that's highlighted in red. Right.
If you put it in terms of odds is one in 12,501. Okay. That doesn't look very reasonable to me.
Okay. Like these are the kinds of odds that you get in natural sciences. Like for example,
when my wife was pregnant and we went through various prenatal screenings, like the genetic test
results gave us odds of the child having various medical conditions. And it would say, for example,
this condition, the odds are like one in 9,000. That that's, you know, the child is actually going
to have them. So those are the odds that you see in genetic testing. But I'm saying that there are
definitely events even in ancient history that are less likely than that. Okay. Like for example,
if someone says that the Roman Empire never existed, well, the probability of that hypothesis
is probably even lower than like 0.008%. Okay. But if you say something like that about
Jesus's existence, that's just sounds a little bit silly. You know, like when you say as a Jesus
mythicist, the biblical scholars are being too confident about Jesus existing and that like
Bart Ehrman is being like too dismissive of Jesus mythicism. But then you as a Jesus mythicist
yourself turn around and say with a straight face that your confidence that Jesus is a myth
is 99.992%. That's just weird. Okay. So if you use the base theorem and it gives you a result like
this, you should not take it as a reason to be very confident. You should actually take it as a red
flag. And you should take it as an indication that you made a mistake somewhere, right? Because
reasonably, you shouldn't be this confident about something like that, given, you know, how much
evidence was lost from the ancient world and everything like that, you know. And the reason
why this number is so low, by the way, is basically because Carrier assumes statistical independence
of all of the estimates about individual pieces of evidence, which is like an okay assumption
to make because it makes the math much simpler. But it also means that all of the estimates just
get multiplied. And that can very quickly become a thermically small. And this is a big problem,
especially if you split your evidence into many different buckets, and then you treat them
independently and just multiply everything, right? So even if all of your estimates in each
category are individually only very modest, if you just multiply everything and you have a lot of
buckets, it will very quickly become astronomically small. This is precisely what happened in Carrier's
case. And of course, what we are saying now is our own estimate, which is like afford theory,
is over 99%. And that might also seem very high. But in terms of odds, it's actually only about
one in 150, which is, you know, like two orders of magnitude more epistemically modest than Carrier's
realistic estimate of one in 12,501. Okay. And also it's important to say that the reason
why Carrier's realistic estimates is so low, again, is his assumption about statistical independence.
But our number isn't high because of the same reason. In our case, the number is so high
just because the data is so heavily in favor of Jesus's historicity. Okay.
And the last thing that I want to say, which is on the next slide, is we started noticing
that in his more recent publications and in his public debates, Richard Carrier never says that his
realistic estimates of Jesus's mythicism is 99.992%. He always says something like the best chance is
one in three. I don't know why he does that. I can imagine it's probably because of optics,
like it makes you seem more reasonable. Right. Fine. If Carrier wants to continue to present his
most charitable estimate in public, he is, of course, entirely free to do so. But what our
research showed is that he should start saying that the estimate is actually over 99% because
that's what the numbers are now. Okay. And before we go into superchats and questions,
we should address what are we going to go do next. So what are the next steps? Right. So
anyone is, of course, free to overturn our results with even more data, just like we updated Carrier's
numbers with data. So if you find more people that fit into that category, it will actually help push
the prior probability of Jesus's mythicism back up. Okay. But how many can you find
other than Romulus? I actually calculated how many additional fictional people would have to be
in the red category before the prior updates back to Carrier's charitable estimate of one in three
and the number is around 65. I don't know about anyone who is in the red bucket other than Romulus.
And if there was someone, I would probably find them by now because I looked at this very closely.
And not only did you do that, I also looked extensively, even as extending into ancient
Semitic literature, and I couldn't find anyone else that fits into that category.
Yeah. So you go ahead, dear viewer, and score however loosely you want and get back to me when
you have 65 people in this red box. Good luck with that. And I'm sure that many people will
ask us to debate Richard Carrier. I'm actually more than happy to do that in person as soon as
someone finds, let's say, 10 fictional members of the updated reference class. So if you find 10
other people that fit into the same category as Romulus, use our precise-fied wording of the
narrative attributes so that you score consistently with us. Get back to me, okay? Because we have
33 historical members now. So if Jesus didn't exist, and he's not extremely exceptional,
then finding 10 people in the red bucket shouldn't be that hard, right?
And to keep in mind also, the people that have to fit in that red box have to, it has to be their
narrative life that fits into that, not that it's like Zeus randomly appears to some person down
the line somewhere. It has to be that their score, their points that they score on the
Raglan archetype were specifically achieved after the 10th century BCE.
Yeah, yeah. So people from Mediterranean antiquity, Rangraglan heroes after the 10th century BCE.
Get cracking. On like a more serious note, okay? So Richard Carrier is now working on a manuscript
of his new book on Jesus' mythicism, you know, on the historicity of Jesus 10 years later,
basically, because this year it's going to be 10 years, I think, since his book came out.
And we are actually emailing back and forth with Richard Carrier about that, just about
something else, not about this. And I'm actually very happy that our two articles got accepted
before he finished working on the manuscript and before he sent it to the publisher,
because now he can take our feedback into consideration. And if he agrees with us,
he can rework his numbers accordingly. And if he disagrees, he can criticize us in our book.
And of course, if he addresses the two articles that we've submitted that got accepted,
and if his book is peer reviewed, we will, of course, be more than happy to respond to him
in future articles. And I'm entirely sure that publications like the Journal of Early Christian
History, we will be more than happy to publish them if they pass peer review, okay? So it's not
the case that biblical scores are neglecting this. It's not the case that peer reviewed journals
don't want to publish on Jesus' Metacism. If you write something interesting on Jesus' Metacism
and you submit it to completely normal biblical studies journal or ancient history journal,
it will pass peer review and get published if it's good. And last but not least,
Christy and I, we have more research that's currently in peer review in various journals.
This is just a list of citations throughout the publication, but sorry, throughout the deck.
So we have more things on Jesus' Metacism that's now being, that's now being referred
in various journals. It, in this case, focuses on evaluation of some of the career's treatment
of some of the pieces of evidence. But I don't actually want to say more about this now, because
it's not yet accepted. So we don't want to publicize it and run the risk of compromising
double blindness of the peer review process. But as soon as it gets accepted, which will
hopefully be anytime now, we'll publicize it. And if we manage to get it accepted before Richard
Carrier submits his manuscript, he can address it in the book as well. Yeah. And what I would also
like to point out is that you're going to also see like in my publication record and things coming up
that I'm not going to just be dogging on mythicism. What's ultimately also going to come down to is,
I agree with mythicists far more than I disagree with them. I disagree with them essentially on
how they interpret Paul and did Jesus exist? When it comes to all sorts of other things, like the
fact that the Gospels are probably all, like their contents are largely, if not entirely mythological,
I pretty much agree. When it comes to like the extra biblical references to Jesus being basically
useless for establishing historicity, I would agree. Like all the references to Jesus and Josephus
being inauthentic, I agree. And I have articles and submission on this as well currently. So
it's not the case that I'm just going out here to just make sure that everything that this
will say is wrong. I agree with them far more than I disagree with them in the end. It's just that
where we fall here is basically the point of main disagreement. We don't think that their
calculations are going to add up anymore because of our new reference class that we have assembled
and the data that we have assembled together. And there are going to be just a few things that we
just do not agree with interpretively. It's interesting how like the trajectory of biblical
studies is developing, right? Because a lot of people say, well, in like 20 or 30 years,
Jesus' mythicism is going to be accepted just like a mythicism over, you know, like Moses and
Solomon and stuff like that. But interestingly enough, like what Richard Carius says in his book
is that he doesn't need to be very radical when it gets to his other positions. He can basically
just show that Jesus didn't exist with all of the other positions that like mainstream critical
scholars take, right? So he, for example, doesn't have to date the gospel very late. He doesn't have
to argue for mythicism of Paul or something like that, right? Well, I mean, he says that, but then
he on numerous occasions actually argues for positions that are not mainstream. But, you know,
that's the framing, right? He basically says, I can get you a mythical Jesus, even if I'm a mainstream
with all of my premises, basically. And if you look at how biblical scholars has been developing
in the last 10 years, what you actually see is that critical biblical scholars are changing,
like are becoming more and more radical on some things, but they still stay historicists, right?
So it's almost like the opposite of the pattern that was being imagined. Like, for example,
more and more people now start saying that Luke and Acts are from the second century,
which is something that Richard Carius doesn't say. But these same scholars, even though they are
becoming more and more radical, are not also becoming convinced of Jesus' mythicism, right?
So what I predict is actually going to happen in the next 20 or 30 years is that, like a lot of
mainstream scholars are going to move towards very radical positions on a number of things,
like Marcioni's priority probably, you know, rejection of or interesting solutions, let's
say, to the synoptic problem, right? But they will still think that Jesus probably existed, right?
Because it's not inherently improbable, you know? Jew live, Jew die, not extraordinary, you know?
But if you actually look at Jesus' mythicism and specifically Richard Carius model, which he says
is the only viable model that doesn't have only a negligible probability of being true,
and I believe him, that's actually pretty convoluted, you know? Yeah. Questions?
Go ahead. You can bring your video back up. People were asking about it, and he's not hiding
himself. He's trying to keep his internet. But you're more like, look at now, because you were
sharing the screen and stuff. I think it'll be cool to have you visually interacting here.
A couple of things I thought about, and then we can get to some of these super chats. And I'm
sure you feel the same way about some of this as you've been exploring deeply. And that is
non-rank raglan deities. And I was just looking up a few in the top of my head,
because recently I was reading an article where there was an overlap between Mithra
and someone mentioned something about early Christianity. And I was just like, hold on,
let me stop my share screen real quick here. I didn't even know what the date might be or
what to think about it. So I pulled up the God Mithra and was like, okay, kept seeing stuff
for like 400, 500 BCE. And I was like, what? And then realizing, oh no, hold on, Mithra,
the God of Light, ancient Indo-European mythology, 1400 BCE. And then I was like, okay, what about
Addis? Oh crap, the 1250 BCE. So like every time you start looking at a deity, even a non-rank
raglan one, you're going to find this dating thing you're talking about starts anchoring them
way back before the 10th century. You might find an example of non-rank raglan gods that come after
that, but the like major head honcho ones, you're going to find them that go way, way back.
Well, and those dates you're looking at aren't even dates for their narratives specifically,
but dates for when they're like earliest attested in our sources. So like you'll find things like
you know, the deity Mithra first starts appearing, you know, under like
Arta Zerk season, stuff like that. But what you're not going to find is the narrative of his life
set in 500 BCE. We don't see that. And that's the really important part. Like there's tons of
deities that we only have like cursory attestation of. The only other one I could think might
potentially fall into this, depending on how many sources we can gather on him, might be Zalmoxis,
because he said to be a student of Pythagoras. But I don't think he'll actually end up being
a raglan hero. I don't think he qualifies enough for the points.
Actually, yeah, I think like the taking into account the dramatic date or when the person is
depicted as living is pretty powerful. And then it does, it almost doesn't matter like whether you
swap rank being a raglan hero with a different thing. For example, Miller in his book on
Divine Translation. He has this huge list in the middle of the book, where he goes through a lot
of these Divine Translation cases in Mediterranean antiquity. And that's a pretty long list. He has
definitely many, many more examples than there are around raglan heroes. And I've been actually
collecting a list for myself. And just because I'm reading through ancient sources all the time,
I just have dozens and dozens more people who are depicted as undergoing Divine Translation.
So they are, for example, changed into deities, they become heroes, and stuff like that. And
if you again break it down by when they are depicted as living, you actually do get some
outliers. Specifically, there are some more recent ones. But it's like the pattern is still there,
right? If the person is depicted as living in very distant past, like pre-archaic period,
Greek pre-archaic period, fictional. If they are depicted as living more recently, Simon Muggers
supposedly claimed about himself that he was a god, right? Existed.
Yeah. Yeah, I thought about that. Yeah, this is a long, long, you know, breakdown.
You know, no matter what, when someone's mind is like made up and they need Jesus' foot or
foreskin in order to know that he actually existed, because they're so skeptical and not weighing
out the probability here, I feel like they're missing the point of what's being presented.
None of you are coming up saying, we, here's Jesus, proof. This is really like based on how,
because it's not great evidence in terms of Jesus' existing. Like, like, we could go to
positive evidence that Jesus' existence is very poor, like very poor. And we're all on the same
boat here. But why do we think there was probably a guy? Well, if you listen to what was said today,
then you'd understand, like, why that makes the most sense. And you can just look at the data.
The data tells a story. Right. I do want to have, before we get to Q&A, I do want to have Richard
Carrier, if he has anything together, I would love just to get all the people who are antagonistic
to him, because let's be honest, things haven't been always, I don't know, just clean and simple.
It's always been dramatic online against him and for him is what I'd love to see is some shifting
take place based on this. That would be awesome, because it would show people like, hey,
you know, people are willing to change their minds, even people who've been pretty confident
about arguments they've been making. And what I notice is when I talk to Dr. Carrier, and we hang
out in person, he's not like a lot of the people online, dogmatic and resistant. He literally is
like, oh, yeah, yeah, you know, Jesus, yeah, that makes sense, actually, for historical Jesus. If
you take this and this, then that makes sense. Like, he'll go with me on that and be willing to
totally like go into the historical Jesus thinking. He's not resistant to me. He's not like
a lot of people who are resistant in the comment section. It reminds me of when
that jab I was telling you before we hit the live stream, that you travel land and see to make one
convert that turns into twice the devil of you, or some like jab. There are a lot more dogmatic
people who listen to Carrier, who are persuaded by mythicism online, than I think Carrier himself
is. And I wish they at least met that level of behavior and sense of not being as dogmatic, but
it's really become so, this topic is so divisive over whether or not a guy existed. And
we should be a little bit more, I don't know, what the best word would be a little bit less
extreme about it? I don't know. Scholarship should always be open to various possibilities,
especially when we're dealing with something like Jesus, where there's a startling lack of
very reliable information. We should be open to the possibility that he didn't exist. This is
just fundamentally a standard question that's going to be asked of numerous figures throughout
historical inquiry. It is a question that has been asked of Apollonius of Tyana and answered in
the positive. It's a question that has been asked of Pythagoras. It is a question that has been asked
of numerous different figures of antiquity. And we should always be open to the possibility that
it's the case that these figures didn't exist or did exist and not be dogmatic about the conclusions
or where that data leads. It's an unfortunate consequence of New Testament studies that are
so infatuated specifically with Christian religion that you can get things like
Mike Lacona writing an article on why miracles existed in the journal of the historical,
for the study of the historical Jesus. That would be unacceptable in any field of classics. If I
wrote an article arguing that Apollonius of Tyana actually performed the miracles ascribed to him
and sent that to the journal of Roman studies, I would be laughed out of my credibility.
Right. And I think that mythicist ideas should be at least there in the engagement, in the discussion,
unlike pretending we need to take this stuff literally historically.
All right. Q&A. We've got 18 here. We've already addressed some, but we're going back to the
fourth and working down. So my buddy Antonio, he's got a big YouTube channel in Brazil,
so they speak Portuguese and I've actually gone on and had discussions, says,
do the sources we have speak of a historical Jesus or a mythological Jesus? What's the
source of the historical Jesus? Any that aren't linked to the myth?
I think that the disjunction going on here, the war, is not necessarily
a good one to have. As we've shown, historical figures are quite often also mythologized,
to the extent that drawing it in the ancient world, there is not a clear distinction between
history and myth. Those things are intertwined in our part of just standard life. So it is part
of the biography of Augustus, that he is the son of a deity. It is part of the biography that there
were divine portents of his death. This is just how it kind of functioned in the ancient world. So
there's not necessarily to say a source that is historical in the way that we think of history
today or mythological just all the way through necessarily, is that we're probably dealing
with sources that are intertwined no matter what we deal with, like even when you go to
historical chronicles, like Josephus. Josephus claims that he saw exorcisms with his own eyes,
that he saw demons cast out. The chronology of Alexander the Great's campaigns said that he saw
the ocean recede before Alexander in reverence. Like all these different miracle claims, so with
claims of eyewitnesses, they're reported everywhere. Tacitus says that there were eyewitnesses that
confirmed the truth of the Spasian healing the main and the disabled. This is just how ancient
antiquity worked. We don't have sources that completely distinguish those two as categories
the way we do today. So I'm just going to say that there is no source of this description
that has existed anywhere in antiquity for anyone. I feel like because there's so much legend and
miracle and this and that, that what I think my friend Antonia would be satisfied and wouldn't we all
to find like a pamphlet or like an epistle or like a gospel that was not like highly legendary.
And it just had like, all right, here's Jesus, got in an argument with his mom on Wednesday,
his dad punched him in the mouth, he ran away for a long time, he came back. And it doesn't have like
a Thomas Jefferson version of the gospel. That's what they want. And then that would make them feel
like, okay, we have something that's not polluted with legend and miracle and all these things.
And because they're finding that, or even if you get the Paul, you already have him seated at the
right hand, you have all that kind of stuff happening. So then they're like, we can't accept
that there was probably a guy behind this mythology or theology, however you want to call it.
I get the frustration. But this makes them probably want to remain mythicists in their minds.
Yeah. And honestly, that's just up to their prerogative to do so. But the way that historians
do history is just common knowledge. This is the unfortunate state of all of our sources.
It would be nice if ancient people wrote in conceptualized history the way that we as modern
people conceptualize history. But it's just the case that they didn't, they thought that
Romulus was just as historical as Augustus. So this is the situation that we're stuck in.
There is no case where we can just create that delineation. And this is specifically why I don't
think that a quest for the historical Jesus should even exist. I don't think that our sources
actually can be used, especially our sources for Jesus, which are so heavily mythologized. And we
have so little concrete stuff that we can point to behind them. It's not like the biography of
Augustus, where not only do we have several independent sources for Augustus, but we also
have coins, archaeological sites, paintings and murals, and other, a mausoleum. We have all
these different things that we can also point to concretely from the life of Augustus and actually
begin centering our literary data around and parse things. We don't have any of that for Jesus.
And so I don't think that we should be even looking to try and do that parsing, because it's
kind of a waste of time. Same thing with like Socrates. Scholars of Socrates are not spending
all of their time trying to figure out what he actually taught and what we can dig out of Plato
as being authentic Socrates tradition. In fact, the Cambridge companion to Socrates describes it
as an actual waste of time. I'm not even being hyperbolic. Yeah, with Socrates, you actually
have two, like first and accounts by people who knew him, right? In person. So yeah, and that
and we can't even trust those are all reliable either, because half of those come from people
that hated him. I just wanted to say real quick. So what one thing that someone might also say is,
well, for all of your like all of your historical ranker glan heroes that you identified were like
famous people. So we have amazing evidence for them. But the disconnect is that we don't have
that for Jesus, right? So yes, yes, okay, Caesar Augustus had like is ranker glan hero,
but we have his own writings, we have statutes, buildings, coins and stuff like that. But we
don't have that for Jesus. But in response to that, I just want to say, like what we have
been presenting today is just about the question of probability. You then of course, then have to
look at the evidence. And it's just the case that if your hypothesis is not a very external
extra ordinary claim, then you don't need that much evidence to think that is probably true,
right? Like for my PhD project, I'm not actually working on Jesus stuff. I'm working on a topic
that has to do with Greek and Roman historiography. And because of that topic, I need to dig really
deep into that genre. And I need to read information that we have preserved about Greek and Roman
historians whose writings did not survive. And actually, if you look into it, there's a lot of
them. There is about 1000 Greek historians that we know of, that we know by name, that we know
existed at some point, but we don't have their writings. In some cases, we have fragments,
but in other cases, we have like one word, like literally for some people, we only have like one
word, because they, for example, used some unusual, you know, vocabulary that was cited by a grammar
grammarian at some point, and that's it, right? For Romans, it's even worse. I think we have less
than 100. But the point is that if you just look at the reference class of Greek and Roman historians,
you'll see that for a lot of them, we have really good evidence that they existed. For example,
because we have their writings. In some cases, we have that we have their tombstones with inscriptions
of their like name and stuff. But then, for some of them, we have like terrible evidence.
So there is a number of people, actually, who are like the first source that mentions them is
Sudap, which is a Byzantine encyclopedia from the 10th century. So they are first mentioned
in the surviving sources, literally hundreds and hundreds of years after they lived,
like compared to those people, the evidence for Jesus is actually pretty good, right?
So how is it possible that modern historians don't doubt that these people existed,
even though the evidence for their existence is so pure, is so poor? Well, that's because there's
nothing super extraordinary about being a Greek or Roman historian, right? So if you see someone
like that being described in the sources, well, there's no reason to doubt that he existed,
even if the earliest account of his life or the earliest mention of his existence in our sources
comes centuries and centuries after they lived, right? And that's the point. What we are saying
is that the hypothesis of Jesus's existence is not very extraordinary, you know, Julie of Judae.
So we have a lot of people that are like similar to Jesus, who we can establish existed because we
have really good evidence. So we just don't need that much positive evidence to conclude that Jesus
probably also existed. That's the point. It's just a very mundane claim. You don't need to have,
you don't need very much evidence that a person existed. That is one of the most mundane things
ever. That's how I feel about it. And it becomes tense online. When you start talking about mundane
guy, it becomes a, where's that evidence of that mundane guy? And, you know, so anyway,
next one is Apollos. And I'm going to use the restroom on this one, if you don't mind talking
until I get right back. And thank you for the super chat. My intuition also says that 12-point
reference class is treated to binary 100% or 0% relevance, as opposed to a gradient. What about
11-point heroes? Should be slightly relevant at least. Love the research.
Yeah, so there is actually quite a lot of people that I found that score like 10 or 11 points,
like Cicero, for example, scores 11. Cleon, the Anatinian politician also scores 11. Like what
you could do as a research project, but that would be pretty actually massive,
would be just to score everyone or as many people as possible. Maybe we can train NAI to do that,
you know, go through the ancient sources and score people. Maybe it could do it even better than
like actual scholars. And just look at how strong of a predictor the number of points is of historicity,
you know. And what I suspect, what I'm suspecting you are probably going to find is even if you
lower the bar to say 11 or 10, you are still going to see this strong correspondence between
whether the person in question existed or not and whether when they are depicted as living,
right? Because even if you lower it, if you lower the threshold, then all the people or
a lot of the people, probably most of the people that are depicted as living after the 10th century
BCE are going to be historical. So yeah. I'm back. Another point I want to also make is also
on this is that the cutoff, we didn't discuss this in the presentation, but the cutoff of 12 points
is more or less just Harrier's whim. There have been other cutoffs that have been suggested. In
fact, Raglan suggested that anyone who scores higher than six or seven, quote, was probably
not historical. So in fact, actually, if we if we took Raglan's cutoff, our list would be so much
larger. Yeah, it would be hundreds of people probably, you know. Yes. Like a lot of the
Salosids and Ptolemyts and all these like Hellenistic monarchs would score high because,
you know, their families were noble, they were intermediates, they were rulers and stuff like
that. Yeah. Imneg in the house. I had five years of mental gymnastics trying to still justify my
belief in Christ. My conclusion is only blind belief is the answer and I'm no longer blind.
Well, so I think this is just a statement of faith type thing. Yeah, I'm kind of happy I
didn't have to go through that. It's myself. Yeah. Yeah, I did have to go through it. So I relate
to Imneg on this. Okay. Searching deeper, shocking, never trust scholars, fudging data.
Never trust. Is he talking about us or about?
Honestly, I don't know, but I do see a constant distrust of academics online
that is out there and I don't I'm not saying I'm not saying to not trust people, not saying to
trust people, consider the research that's being brought up and dive in. Look at it and then compare
it to other scholarship, compare it and reason your way to conclusions based on the evidence.
The best you can, of course, there's tools and methods involved and all sorts of stuff, but
I don't know what the context of this super chat is, to be honest.
All right, moving on. Michael Beverly, thank you so much for the super chat.
Seems all this shows real people can be mythologized, though we're full circle. What about Jesus
is historical? That he had a mommy, crapped his diaper, grew up and ate bread and fish? What? And so
what? My biography of Jesus is basically like four bullet points. He was born probably in ancient
Rome and Palestine. He had a brother named James, maybe other brothers. He had some followers
and gave them teachings and for some reason was executed probably by Pilate. Pilate is basically
the only thing I cannot explicitly figure out why Christians would invent, why him specifically,
and then why they go out of their way to try and exempt him from having done that.
That's basically the only thing in the biographies, in the Gospels, I could not argue against being
historical really. So that's basically my biography of Jesus in a nutshell.
Yeah, I can probably think of some reasons why Pilate would be invented or why
crucifixion and the Pilate would be invented. And actually in history of Jesus' mythicism,
there have been some suggestions as to why exactly Pilate. One thing to consider is that
if you look at the tenures of Roman governors in Palestine, most of them tend to be pretty short
because they either died or they got replaced pretty quickly. But actually Pilate had
exceptional long tenure. He was a governor in the area for 10 years. So just like when you are
thinking about where to put a historical Jesus, you might want to put him under the person who
was in the office the longest because that like covers your ass. You have the highest
ends of conforming basically to actual history. But why would they choose Pilate over say like
one of the ethnarchs like Herod or Antipas or someone like that? Who also had pretty long reigns.
Yeah, that's another thing. And it seems that there was a tradition that Jesus was brought
before a king. That's why, for example, you have him brought to one of the Herods in the Gospel of
Luke, if I'm not mistaken. But when you actually look at, for example, Justin, who mentions something
similar, he deviates from the wording from the Gospels. So some scholars in the past have
hypothesized that there was a tradition about Jesus being brought before the king, before a king.
And that might be like a historical detail that was actually mined out of the Hebrew Bible.
Like that was this image of the prophet being brought before the secular authorities who
questioned them or punished them or something like that, right? But anyway, yeah, I'm definitely
a Jesus minimalist as well. So I also don't think that we can know anything above what Chrissy said
with any degree of certainty as well. I think that there is probably like 20% of sayings and
maybe 10% of the events that are depicted in the canonical Gospels that are historical,
but I have absolutely no idea how to identify them, right? I think it's like a normal distribution.
The probability that everything was invented is vanishingly small. The probability that everything
happened exactly as it's related as astronomically small, because you have people casting demons
into pigs and stuff like that. So probably some percentage of the material goes back to
actual people and events, but identifying which is basically impossible to reconstruct.
And that's not my problem. That's because of early Christians, right? They messed the data up so
badly that we can't disentangle that, you know? So not my problem. Sorry, not sorry.
And as for the so what, and this is basically like a point that I am making in a book chapter
that I was invited to write. Hopefully it will be coming out in the next few years or so. The
so what is basically that a guy existed, it doesn't really matter. I don't think that you explain
or should explain the emergence of social movements on the basis of great individuals or
single individuals anyways. So it's essentially just historical curiosity. And that's like the
biggest problem with the Mythesis Debate and why it gathers so little attention anyways is that
it there are very few actual ramifications of whether or not Jesus existed. No one believes
in the historic like Christians don't believe in the historical Jesus, whoever he might be.
They believe in a theological concocted version of Jesus as been slowly developed over 2000 years.
They do not they do not and have never believed in whoever it was that lies behind the Gospels and
his historical events that of his life. So just one point to everything you just said because this
is the so what for me, right? I went from a fundamentalist to believe this was God in the flesh.
Everything written about it happened. The Bible's an errant infallible. This is true. My bubble,
anything that intruded that popped it. Why what full on DM Murdoch, Robert Price, you know,
Mythosist that he existed and everything about it was true to hold on. These are all just made
up stories and everything was fiction. It's all made up. It's astrotheology. It's this. It's that
everything had to be mythical, everything. Then you start back peddling and realizing, man,
actually this stuff's messier than I thought. So the so what to me is in my view, right? Since I
always critique where I came from, you'll see me do often anti-apologetic materials. You get this
kind of like mythosism is weaponized to kind of go your mythical Christ never existed. This all
didn't happen to well, if there was a guy, you'll even see it in the rhetoric sometimes on more
devout mythosist online where they come at you like if you grant there was a guy, he might have
walked on water. He might have put these pigs, you know, the demons into pigs. He might have
rose from the dead. Like you're giving those fundamentalists a little leg to stand on. Well,
one of the things I tend to personally think at least the concept what actually was said, I don't
know, but a apocalyptic figure that I think is factored in to a likelihood that Jesus was apocalyptic.
I'm more on the side. I think there's something to this and
anyone knows about apocalyptic movements. They fail, they recalculate, they reinterpret and
cognitive dissonance. And I see that all throughout the New Testament. So it's just another tool
when I'm engaging those who want to act like this should dictate what women do with their
bodies or how the world should work. I'm using this and trying to be as factual with the data as
possible when I'm persuaded like history nerd. I want to be as close to the truth. I've always
been a truth seeker. And if I think that it's likely there was a guy, I might even die on the
hill of arguing why I think that's the case a little. But does it really matter in the long scheme?
No. And where I'm at also, like, I don't really care to debate whether or not Christianity is
true. As a pagan, I don't really care. It's pretty irrelevant to me. But if I were to be
really invested in that, I think that the historical Jesus is far more damaging
to Christianity, because you look at just how mythologized all Christian texts are
at that point. Historically, what I have shown is that believing Jesus didn't exist doesn't
usually or necessarily change people from being Christians. I actually have an entire paper on
this subject of Christians, especially even pastors who think that Jesus never existed
and are still devout Christians. One of the most notable ones in the first one of the 21st
century to get a peer reviewed book through and published on why Jesus didn't exist was Thomas L
Brody, who is a Catholic priest. And the entire end of his book is devoted to why he is still a
devout Catholic and how he's still believing God. Despite the fact that he thinks Jesus didn't exist.
I actually think he has one of the best cases for why Jesus didn't exist. I actually like his work
better than I like carriers. But it's just the case that thinking that Jesus didn't exist is not
going to equate to disavowing Christianity. The historical Jesus is far more damaging
because it automatically implies the untruthfulness of the Gospels. If you believe in a mythical
Jesus, having mythical literature doesn't mean anything. As a pagan who believes in
celestial deities like Odin and stuff like that, it doesn't matter to me whether the saga of the
Volsungs is historical. It's not. That's not why I have texts that I take as a spiritually
authoritative. I don't take them. I don't think history is not historicality, I should say,
is not necessary there. Yeah, and also to be fair, Richard Kirir has repeatedly said and
written about how he thinks non-Christians shouldn't argue about... They shouldn't push
Jesus' mythicism as a counter-apologetic, basically. He says that that's not productive,
because it's a complicated case and stuff like that. And when he debates the resurrection or
something like that, he just grants that Jesus existed for the sake of argument, because that's
a whole thing to add back to someone. Yeah, so let's move on. Thank you, thank you. Hunter Biden's
laptops. Thank you so much, Jay. Can Chrissy explain the significance of the timing of manuscripts?
Is there a cutoff to when being a, quote, later tradition,
means it shouldn't count? Dr. Kirir has talked a little bit about this in some of his
posts, about like when traditions shouldn't count. So we try to exclude most accounts that
are going to happen after Christianity becomes like a dominant religion, because as Kirir argues,
this is at a point where then people are responding to and being influenced by Christianity, so it
can actually mess with the data. So let's say... That's why, for example, we don't include modern
figures who are also raglan heroes like Abraham Lincoln or JFK, because at this point Christianity
has so influxed culture that kind of narrative trope has become standard. So now it doesn't
necessarily actually tell us about the efficacy of that trope and its application to Jesus. So we try
to look at figures whose traditions seem as most independent as possible, which means that we're
trying to look as early as possible. Manuscripts is a different question. We can date most manuscripts
of the texts we have are including the New Testament. The vast majority of all of them are medieval and
later. The case, though, is that we can make pretty good arguments for dating the texts and their
composition much earlier. So we more try to look at not at the timing of the manuscripts, but at
the composition of the texts themselves. And we try basically to... My personal cutoff when I was
looking at sources for the most part was trying to make sure I was cutting off sources from
basically after the time of Constantine. If it comes after Constantine, at which point Christianity
has become basically the dominant religious force in the Roman Empire, then I'm just not going to
bother with those sources as much. Yeah, I just want to say it's actually interesting because,
and this is something that I also noted in one of the papers, if you look at the primary sources that
give you this historical Rangra-Glan scoring, a lot of them are actually roughly contemporary with
Christianity, with the writing of the New Testament. So they are probably reflecting some of the
tropes and patterns that were present in the Mediterranean culture at the time.
Like Plutarch is basically contemporary with the Gospel writers. Suetonius is a little bit later.
There are some sources that are earlier, some sources that are a little bit later. But in the
case of the sources that are later, there's basically zero chance that they are influenced by
Christianity, except maybe with the exception of Flavius Philostratos, who wrote the biography of
Apollonius, because there has been a hypothesis that Apollonius was deliberately modeled to mirror
Jesus, that he was like a pagan response to Christianity. I'm actually pretty sympathetic
to that idea, because if you read the biography very carefully, you start seeing things that are
showing up in the Gospels. And it's very difficult to argue that this is just a coincidence or like
a cultural parallelism or something like that. I think with one point, I relied on Surah, which is,
as I mentioned, like an early medieval Byzantine encyclopedia. So I think in one case, we have
there some points that were given based on that, but not based on actual ancient sources. But I
think in that case it's justifiable, because Surah was basically just rewriting and synthesis
of sources that come from antiquity anyway. And in that particular instance, there is basically no
chance that that account isn't coming from like a lost ancient source, and no chance that it was
actually invented by Christian monks in the Middle Ages or something like that.
Right. The one time we cite the Suda is Lambda 25 Alien Fragment 285, and it's specifically
citing Alien, who is an ancient Greco-Roman author. Thank you. Well, we got so many I didn't want to
because by the time we get to the end, if we're doing it this low, we'll have 18 more,
and you'll never get to sleep, Camille. What time is it where you're at?
Midnight. Do you want to stand before 3 am? Just kidding. Sure. Sure. Antonio is back again. Thanks
again for the Super Chat, my friend. If you're interested in listening to stuff from Brazil
and Portuguese, go down there. Sometimes you'll have like an interpreter too. But these historical
figures have sources that are not linked to any myth. So there's an example in Cesar Augustus,
you could find mundane literature that seems to not be so mythical, like the birth narratives we
find in his writing. So in other words, sources about normal and non-normal individuals. Does Jesus
have a source that talks about him being with him without being linked to myth? And I want to add to
that question in this too. Are there other figures like Jesus that we think existed, Apollonia
Satayana, who don't have all this mundane historical data like he's picturing here?
Well, I mean, if you actually think that this is the case, that there are all these figures
that we listed are ones that are not linked to any myth, I have to ask which ones? Because
it is definitely not the case that Pythagoras is not linked to any myth in our sources.
Every single source I can find that contains a narrative life of Pythagoras includes all sorts
of just insane things about him, like that he traveled to Hades, that he was the son of Apollo,
and a bunch of other stuff like this, like all of his biographies are like this,
and the references to him in things like Herodotus link him to clearly legendary figures like Zalmoxis.
This is just standard. I would like to see also the evidence for that with Plato,
the biographical sources for Plato list all sorts of divine and mythical things about him.
In fact, we just recently and also just wild stories about how he about like the
moments before he died. So like we just actually just recently uncovered at the Heracleum in
Pompeii, from one of the scrolls that we were able to digitize an account of how
Plato died. And apparently he was just correcting everyone on their musical abilities right up
to the moment he drew his last breath. It's kind of absurd. This is how ancient people wrote.
Our main biographies of Augustus Caesar from people like Suetonius or the accounts of Augustus
and Cassius Dio all record him doing in magical things. When he dies, they account a court grant
him the divine honors and he's witnessed ascending to the heavens because of the grace of Job.
Like this is just what happened. I want to know what these sources are that you're talking about
that do not talk about these figures in non-mythical ways.
Right, exactly using the same logic you're talking about. We could go through the Gospels and find
mundane material that doesn't do the magical stuff and one could draw. Maybe there's something
historical here but we can't prove it. This is what people did in like 19th century, right?
They basically just rewrote the Gospels. They took away all the like magical stuff
and they thought that they were instructing the historical Jesus. You can do that. That is
surprisingly like a lot of material if you remove all of the exorcisms and stuff like that.
It's actually a fun little just factoid. The term mythicist was coined to describe those people
that demythologized the Gospels. It was used as a polemic against David Friedrich Strauss
who is in the whole three Jesus quest model of historiography. He's considered the person
who started the first quest for the historical Jesus. That's where the term mythicist originates
to describe historicists actually. Wow, you're trying to figure out what really happened, huh?
Yeah, so you can put me on the list of scholars who endorse Jesus' mythicism
only with the caveat that I'm using the original definition. Yeah, so it's like
I fundamentally like, no, we don't have any source like this for Jesus but I'm just going to say
I don't think we have a source like this for anyone in antiquity. That's a right word for sure.
Especially not like specifically like a biographical source. If we're going to equate
sources like Jesus, the sources we have for Jesus and the sources that we have for other people
and do biographies, I don't think you're going to find a single one that isn't mythologized in some
capacity. Well put, thank you, Antonio. Consider, my friend, consider. Kwame, I think I'm saying that
correctly, says Tacitus is not referenced by early church fathers, Josephus interpolation,
Jesus in the Talmud, 100 BCE, the James Oshuary forgery. What evidence is left?
Okay, there's a lot going on here. So yes, Tacitus is Annals or not referenced by the
early church fathers, but this isn't surprising because Tacitus's Annals were in severe disrepair
and were not copied very much. In fact, one of the emperors who traced his lineage back to Tacitus
ended up having to institute a program to copy his works and save them from obscurity
because they had been so just dropped out of usage. The only work of his that seems to have
had any relevance to anyone really was the histories and even that had pretty limited usage.
So the fact that the Jesus passage in Tacitus's Annals is not referenced is
unsurprising at best. The Josephus passages, I agree, are probably interpolations.
The Talmudic references to Jesus living in 100 BCE are actually all probably later
alterations. If you actually go through, Peter Schaefer has a really good book on this. It's
Jesus in the Talmud, if I remember correctly. And it was published, I think, with Princeton
University Press, I want to say. Anyways, this is a really good book, but he actually discusses how
a ton of these references, if you look at the earlier recensions and like the Jerusalem Talmud,
are missing any reference to Jesus. Those were added later after the fact. So the whole 100 BCE
thing is a later accretion of the Babylonian Talmud, not particularly relevant in any way,
but also doesn't have any main realm. It doesn't change our data at all, because since our data
is 10th century and later, 100 BCE is well after the 10th century. So even though we have this
conflicting information, it doesn't really do anything. And lastly, the James Lester area,
we all are going to agree that that's a forgery, at least all of us who know the evidence.
And are convinced by the data that's been done on that, and also just like statistically,
it's very unlikely it's Jesus. So the evidence that's left is mostly
our data driven points, plus a few other things like Paul.
Where are the coins with Jesus, like Ptolemy or Alexander?
Well, only rich, powerful kings usually had or like governors of regions had coins minted of
their faces. So Jesus wasn't one of those. So they're nowhere because he wasn't one of those people.
And also, this is the point that I was explaining already, right? Because we have so many examples
of people who are similar to Jesus and they all existed. I don't know they existed because
there were things like coins minted with them. But we can establish that the claim that Jesus
also existed is not super extraordinary, so that we don't need to have also coins about with Jesus,
right? It's just like if you establish that the claim is pretty ordinary, then you don't need the
evidence to favor that strongly in favor of the claim to conclude that it's probably correct.
I don't need to know, I don't need to have contemporary eyewitnesses to all of these
obscure historians who are only at the state in the Middle Ages to be confident that, yeah,
they probably existed because being a Greek historian is not super impossible.
Thank you. Thank you. Searching deeper. Thanks for the super chat. Again, Derek, this kills a lot
of your theories tracing sources for stories in the Bible. You cast your net too wide and too vaguely
getting random matches, figures more historic than you estimate. I would need an example of what
you're talking about. Most of the time what I do is try to categorize stuff in genre. I have
occasionally done videos where there are attempts to make genetic connections, but they're not my
own cases. It's not my own work. They are academics that I've gone to to use their work to say this
is what this scholar PhD has said, but genetic connections are very difficult to make. But as
far as somehow this making figures historical, you'd have to give me an example. Our data definitely
isn't going to contradict, for example, like Moses and Joseph being myths. In fact, it's going to
pretty resoundly validate that. You can apply our data pretty consistently to other figures that
are also Raglan heroes. It's going to have very consistent results. Our model seems to have a
lot of utility. Thank you. Also, by the way, we don't think that Cesar Augustus was actually a
son of Apollo. Even if you have a historical person, all of the fantastical elements are
obviously fictional. If anything, it just goes on to undermine. It goes on to show that a lot of
these fantastical elements in various biblical texts and apocryphal texts and stuff like that
were just picked from surrounding culture. It was polemics and these kinds of things.
And that's all I'm doing too, in case anyone's interested. I'm trying to do that with the Bible.
I think it was Claude Levi-Strauss. I can't remember who the guy's exact name was, but no myth
is original. There might be elements of it original, but there's a constant passing down
and borrowing from social structures and cultures and stuff that influence each story.
And Derek also full knows that a lot of things he argues for are not the scholarly consensus
by any means. He knows just he has conversations with me, with like Kip Davis and others,
and he knows how much a lot of us do not agree with a lot of those conclusions anyways.
You can make those decisions and differences and stuff. And I like to venture outside of
the status quo or consensus ideas are from PhDs. I don't just go do my own research. If I knew
the languages and really delved in deep like that, I would. But I'm like exploring people in the
outskirts of the field that are doing things that I think are unique and interesting, and I like to
tap into those. But yeah, thank you. Alim Fados, forgive me if I butchered that. I tried to
properly pronounce that name. Shout outs from Brazil. Tiago is my name or Tiago. Thank you
so much for the super chat. Appreciate it, my friend. I'll probably see you on Antonio's channel
sometime. Searching deepers back again, it is clear the scholars you interviewed do sloppy work,
and you need to fact check them more like Aaron staff was never used in temple as stated by a
scholar in your latest video only kept in arc. Okay. Yeah, I'd have to like pull up the video,
but thank you so much for the super chat, my friend. Thank you, Mr. Warlight. What's carriers
proof of Jesus as solar deity? I don't think you carry your career doesn't think that Jesus is a
solar deity. And if you bring up Astro theology mythicism around him, he'll probably have a very
long blog post for you about it. He has written although I always found it kind of interesting
that Jesus is a son of God. And like son and son are kind of super in English. There must be something
to it, you know. You're funny. Okay, moving on. Michael Beverly in the house again. Thank you,
Michael. Go subscribe to Michael's channel. Give him some love show the community some love and
go subscribe. Great show. Derek, can you recommend your guests come chat with me? I had a date with
Camille, but he had to postpone and brother if you can give me a plug. There was my shout out.
Yeah, I have to I have to reply to the invitation because I had to postpone my the problem is that
now I'm I've been flooded with other things, right? So I had to prep for this which like putting
together 130 slides that takes some time. And now I'm working on a translation of an ancient text
that I was given a grant to to work on. And that has a deadline as well. But I'll definitely hit
you up and we'll figure something out. Yeah, I think we prepped this one almost like we multiple
weeks in advance just to get this that like close to a month. Yeah, and my moving to I was like,
oh, my gosh, we got to get it in before I move because you can see half my bookshelf is missing.
Half your bookshelf is mythical. And the other side is it. Well, and I and literally once we're
done here, I'm going over to start moving my stuff to another place too. So we have big things going
on. Subscribe to Michael Beverly. Thanks, Michael, for the super chat. Yep. And Michael check your
check the emails because I sent I replied to the one you sent. Thank you for being a member for
22 months. Daniel Whitaker says the more I hear the more confident he's a myth.
I was I wish I heard the same things you did. Do I? I said I wish I heard the same things that he
did. I know because part of me was like, it just made me more confident that we're dealing with
different categories. And historical people being mythologized made a lot of sense. I have to say
like, it's not that I don't want Jesus to have it to be a myth. I think it'd be so much more
interesting if he was a myth. That'd be so much more interesting. And there'd be so much more to
write about like, goodness gracious, I can make a career off that if it was the case.
It's so it's not that I don't want him to be a myth. It's just that I can't get the data to go
that way. You and by the way, you were at one point, a mythicist. Yes, I was. When I first started
getting into biblical studies, I was a mythicist. And then I went and I was dating the daughter of
a pastor who also happened to have a PhD in Second Temple Judaism. And yeah, he was a
very adamant in correcting me. You walk out. Have you ever walked out of a house feeling
very embarrassed? You ever opened your mouth at something? Hang for sheet. Thank you so much for
the super chat. Would you agree that the destruction of the Jerusalem Christian sex destroyed the
historical connection if there is one and left us instead with the mythology created by Paul?
Sorry if covered coming from coming here from Dr. Kills live.
I think I could probably play a part of it like after 70 CE when every when the when Jerusalem
was sacked, I'm pretty sure it probably would have sent most of the Christians that did that
survived into the diaspora and then probably would have destroyed any writings they had as well
if they had writings. The bigger thing is that I'm not even sure. And Camille and I would actually
disagree on this potentially because Cam actually plays with the idea of Peter being literate. But
I don't think any of the other apostles were literate. And I don't think that it would even
if they were literate that they necessarily would have actually even written anything because there
is a very, very different scribal culture between ancient Jewish writers and ancient
Greco-Roman writers as well. Interesting. Yeah, like let me go into extreme radical
critique mode here. And I want to say what's really interesting is that after Paul you have
like 100 years of a Christian dark ages that's only filled with texts that are either anonymous,
forged or extremely difficult to date. And basically the earliest author who says who he is,
when he wrote and stuff like that is Justin Marder, who's almost exactly 100 years after Paul,
right? And what we can very clearly and this 100 years, by the way, that's when all this
explosion in diversity of Christian thought happens. So when late 2nd century heretics
are horrified that there are Marcionites, Gnostics that have completely weird idiosyncratic
theologies about everything. Well, that's because that emerged in this dark age period.
And I think what you can very clearly see is that during this period of time there were no
disciples of Jesus going around making sure that everyone was on the same page and correcting
heretics and stuff like that. So that there wasn't any controlled tradition or anything like that.
And if you actually look at Christian sources from the 2nd century, you'll see that people and
places from Asia Minor are disproportionately represented like almost like basically an order
of magnitude compared to all other places. And what I would probably say is that
all of these stories about lives of disciples of Jesus like Peter, Paul and stuff like that,
that's all fiction that comes from later martyrologies and basically no like fictional
narratives that were propagated starting from 2nd century and later and that
yes, probably Peter, James and John and all the people that are mentioned in Polish letters
like it's very possible that they all died in the war and that the Jerusalem Christian community
was completely wiped and that Christianity only survived as like a coherent identity in Asia Minor.
And when Christianity is then picked up in the 2nd century by basically intellectuals who
start rediscovering these texts like the canonical gospels like Paulian epistles including for example
Marcion, they are like just barely connected to 1st century Christian movement like communities
of Paul, Peter through this like last remaining remnants which was the only thing that was
surviving during those dark ages. It's extremely difficult to prove that this happened
because you have to bite like a lot of bullets about a lot of narratives that you see in these
ancient texts being fictional but I think it's like a very good possibility that this is what
actually happened but like all of the people were just died during the Jewish war and that
actually explains why these dark ages then took place. Thank you. Searching deepers says
Carrier fudged the data. What are your thoughts about this after investigating? Do you think
it was a fudging or just a particular? I don't think he's actually fudging data necessarily,
not on purpose. There's definitely like a double standard going on in the point application
but the unfortunate reality of the situation is because of the intersubjectivity of applying
points. You don't even always realize you're doing it anyways and Carrier has fessed up to where
that we even pointed out double standards to him in point application and when it comes to
like the fact that his sample size is only of mythical figures I don't think that's necessarily
fudging the data because he was deriving that largely from Raglan. He was deriving a premade
sample set so it's not necessarily that he was fudging data it's just that the data that he had
at his disposal was already predisposed in a certain way so there's already a sample bias that
he did not have data to conflict with. Got it. We're basically the only people in history
that we know of up to this point that have systematically gone through historical figures
to look at for Raglan heroes. That's something that's probably good to emphasize. As far as I
know nobody before the two of us really did this exercise thoroughly. I definitely wouldn't want
to say that he intentionally fudged the data and again the research that we did is just to
enhance the conversation and move it further. I am extremely like looking forward to his
upcoming book. I will make sure to get it as as quickly as possible and yeah it's just a
we'll try to to improve the research. Thank you. Thank you. Aristotle showed up. Thank you for
the super chat. Why would someone not admit King Arthur? His records were written down 300 years
later in Historia Britannum but there were surely others in the time in between who saw his fictional
narrative as history. That's definitely the case but the problem is that he's a not going not an
ancient Mediterranean hero so he doesn't actually fit within our reference class on the first point
and then another reason why we wouldn't want to include him is because he is medieval and he has
also influxed with Christian archetype in all the narratives that exist of him. So our earliest
narrative that mentions Arthur I believe is the is Pseudoneneus' historical chronicle of Britain
and in that text it's already including like Christian saints performing all sorts of things
like that. I've done a lot of reading on the historicity of King Arthur just as a complete
side project of mine. It's weirdly enough another wheelhouse of mine but because of this is that we
can't actually separate him from Jesus tradition specifically and whether or not his tales are
influenced by Jesus tradition and as I discussed earlier that's why we're not including figures
from like the modern era because at that point Christian tradition has become has influxed
literature so much that we cannot conclude this is like a genuine independent example
of the Raglan motif and not just reutilizing Jesus sign literary motif. Thank you for the
super chat and good answer. 13 deeper if God exists miracles are possible. To say it is not
is circular and unscientific. You are assuming God doesn't exist you have to keep premises open.
Yeah actually that does not follow if you are for example the deist deity is a perfect example
of this. If the deists are right then God has completely removed himself from any he's basically
abdicated all responsibility to do with the universe so no miracles would not be possible
if the deistic God is the real one. Miracle and also even if there is a God who interacts
with the world that does not guarantee that he's going to that miracles are going to happen either.
It means that they could in some theoretical universe maybe happen if he wants them to
but doesn't guarantee that their possibility. Yeah this has really nothing to do with the
topic of the stream but just yeah just when you know when I'm talking to theists and like for
example the Christians about the resurrection I always explicitly grant for the sake of argument
that Yahweh specifically Yahweh exists and that like miracles happen sometimes including
resurrections right because if you actually grant that you remove a lot of this you know arguments
about anti-supernatural biases and stuff like that because a vast majority of people who are not
Christians do think that a God exists at that supernatural events do take place right you
just don't think it's the Christian ones and also just because you like think that God exists and
miracles happen that doesn't really push the probability of like a specific miracle happening
that much right like I have a microphone in front of me do I think that the microphone is going to
like supernaturally start living in the next 10 minutes no what if I assume the God exists and
like miracles are possible like am I going to think it's more likely to happen in the next 10 minutes
no right not not that much it's a little bit more probable right but just just because I think a God
exists that doesn't mean like a specific miracle would take place right so yeah okay last one Pedro
from my buddy who does the translation uh for my friend in Brazil who was this Jesus likely to have
existed uh just like uh what what is it that we can say about him or if you want to know what we
can say about him we discussed that in a previous comment I don't want to yeah they're coming they
probably missed that and then they're also coming from the mythic side they're more persuaded from
mythicism I think a lot of the people in Brazil that are skeptics are more on the mythic kind of
side from what I've seen at least in the youtube sphere so if we grant that the guy existed um
you know who is this Jesus you know like what what did he do and you kind of mentioned this before
but maybe just a quick rehash just to let Pedro know in case you missed it just just get Richard
carriers on the historicity of Jesus and read it which I think you know I highly recommend
anyone does anyway because in the introduction he actually has a list of bullet points that
that are constitutive of his minimal historicity hypothesis right so and I think that's actually
a pretty good summary so if you want to know what we can securely say about the historical Jesus
just read that it's like a one paragraph with I don't know four or five bullet points
in your set right um like it would be nice to have more sure uh who is to blame that we can't
say anything much more than that early Christians is it my problem not really right right and and
by the way it's neither your or my goal to like make you all be persuaded you must think there
was probably a guy if you want to go on saying mythicism is the most likely and that's what
you're persuaded by go for it be my guest um I'm just saying I'm following what makes the most
sense to me here so I'm not interested in telling you what he did on Wednesday at five p.m. in the
upper room I mean like we finish do what yeah one last thing that I want to say before we finish
so I suspect and this is definitely not going to be through about like a doctor career or
anything like that but I suspect that a lot of people might be sympathetic toward Jesus
mythicism big of people who are uh pushing very strongly against Jesus mythicism are
Christian apologists because there's a lot of them and they have a lot of money basically
and a lot of exposure and they can generate a lot of content right but do you think that a
Christian apologist would be able to give the same presentation that we gave today
course not right because like what we have been arguing for most part has been built on
pointing out that there are patterns of metallurgization that are present in the gospels
that were also the case in the surrounding greek roman culture it's just the case that
they were also applied to other people who are historical do you really think that a Christian
apologist would want to argue this way of course not they want to avoid this entire topic and they
won't don't want to come anywhere near it right they don't want to touch this with a 10 foot long
pole so they under say that all of these pattern of metallurgization are just his coincidences
basically or they will start coming with coming up with absurd claims like all of these stories
were put in place by the devil who was trying to trick you know christians into thinking that
jesus wasn't raised from the dead so but because christian apologists are only able to make a case
against jesus's mythicism that is pretty weak then jesus mythicists that only encounter this kind of
content are only presented with a much weaker case so i think this whole discussion should be
primarily should be had basically by people who are not christian apologists right so if you
really want the strongest case don't go to i don't know reasonable faith or something like that
just just come to us and we'll tell you what's what
like the apologists have just such a terrible case and it's actually rather interesting i have
an article that's been accepted at a christian apologetics journal and it is specifically
titled how a christian apologist failed the christ myth debate so they're going uh the editor was
who thought it was really good and so it's going at some point there's going to be an
apologetics journal discussing just exactly how bad apologists are at arguing this
i yeah and again pedro i think christie and um camille think you know you have a jesus who's
crucified um who obviously was teaching things had a movement and um i can't remember what the
other bullet points you brought up that you practically think about this guy i added apocalyptic
sism that this guy was an apocalyptic jewish teacher of some sort probably charismatic
but i would not even say jesus is the reason that christianity even ultimately exist you
can thank the followers and that's the same i was just speaking to a scholar on pre-islamic
inscriptions and stuff that what we can do in assessing monotheism allah the whole nine
and he said it wasn't muhammad that made islam survive and thrive it you know he was just one
of the founding guys it was some of the brilliant people after him that wrote in so it's the people
around that made the movement it is the movement uh and movements don't stem from just single great
individuals they come in a socio-political and economic context and so if we are going to discuss
christianity as a historical movement we shouldn't be even be putting so much emphasis on who jesus
was to begin with well actually there were three specific historical people who who made christianity
succeed and it was one valentinas because he forced the proto-orthodox people to get their
shit together when it comes to theology to martin because he forced the proto-orthodox
communities to put together the new testament and three montanas because he forced the proto-orthodox
communities to start paying their bishops and like if you if you put these three heretics
and their contributions to the development of nascent christianity in combination then yeah
they they pretty like them combined they probably made or broke christianity more significantly
than like the historical jesus or even the historical paul right like if they were not
kind of combat in competition then yeah like chances are christianity would just fizzle out by
the third or fourth century like you know marcionism nosticism and and these kinds of other movements
we could add calces to the list i mean you know we can we really could take all the writing against him
that was inspired um hang for she again says wow what do you guys make of sir gowan's
sword being named galuth hebrew for exile or urim on x caliber's hilt some same metal used in the
priest's breastplate uh that they really liked their bibles when they concocted these stories
basically um similarly i could also point out that it's also tradition that like sir gowan's
sword was created by the smith weyland who is from nor smithology um and he actually like a ton
of different people's swords are said and breastplates and other things are said to be made by weyland
so like uh the uh in the german epic wal taryas his uh are he is said to have a weapon from
uh weyland bale wolf is said to have a breastplate made by weyland uh you have sir gowan like it
it's just a whole thing uh german epic mythology is like a huge thing of mine outside of new
testament studies i'm working on translating some of them so yeah but it's just going to the
fact that they're already influxed with christian tradition and texts so seems weyland had pretty
good marketing thank you so much last one mr warlite when is jesus coming back pre-mid or
post-trib you forgot to add he isn't um that should be in there i'm going mid are you i'm actually
i'm actually a hyperpreterist i i believe that the timeline in the book of daniel is correct
and that the end of the age actually did take place in the second century bce you know that
explains american politics a lot we're already in hell already okay my final question to you both is
um i get richard carrier to come join me dr carrier comes on and gets to respond
is there anything we should be asking him or do you have a direct statement that i should be
mentioning to him if he comes back on to try and address other than the things you've already
brought up all right um does he have a list of 65 bragglin uh heroes that are fictional and after
10th century bce except he does i want that list yeah okay and if not why not if not why not so
technically this category that you're describing what was it called to get something time dramatic
date dramatic dramatic date so this this dramatic date i imagine is something that needs to be
considered that you're saying hasn't been considered before yeah yes and there are some
other scholars that have like briefly pointed it out like um uh greg boyd and paul and paul roads
eddy actually very briefly mentioned this and so did uh james dg done that they're that the timeline
is a the difference in time is a difference between jesus and mythological mythological
figures but no one's actually gone through the data to demonstrate it before yeah and it's it's
pretty it's pretty robust against other tools of measuring mythic mythicization so even if you
don't use rank raglan heroes and use something you use something else it's probably going to hold
and so definitely ask about four 65 uh people who are after 10th century bce rank raglan heroes but
also uh you know if someone starts telling you why jesus was depicted as living in the first century
even though he existed don't just listen to just so stories ask for probabilities okay because i can
give you a narrative about why jesus would be placed in that time period even if he was mythical
the question is would that be exceptional or would that be typical you know and i think
whatever account you would give us to why that happened it's going to be pretty exceptional
you know you're not going to find very many mythological people with the same kind of story
so yeah as always ask for more examples you know like do we know about other people for from for
whom the same thing happened and they also didn't exist or it's jesus the only one this has been
this has been fantastic i had a blast learning something new never really thought about this
in depth on that level of skill and using dramatic the the the dramatic dating and whatnot um
you have a book uh christie and everyone can get a copy the empty prison cell uh the authenticity
of philemon reconsidered it is the first book ever written on to comprehensively go through
and argue about the authenticity of philemon and i suggest it might be a second century forgery
yep go get the book and you can check out the article in depth in the description of this as
well in it if you're interested it has been endorsed by dr isaac t soon and dr mark billby
nice yeah thank you thank you for your time and doing this presentation um any final words before
we go i need a drink let's do it again and maybe we'll have a response to the response yeah let's
do this again the next paper we're we're on awesome well that next paper when is that going to be
released um we have not yet gotten the peer review um uh results back on that but i'm fairly confident
that it will pass personally what is that one about without giving away the whole spiel
we'd rather we'd rather uh can you at least say that it's about mythicism
um it's related we can say that okay okay well we'll see that presentation when that comes
awesome well thank you so much i'm gonna play the outro i i don't think i've done my little um
matrix outro in a while so why not i love y'all thank you so much hit the like button check out
their link subscribe join the patreon helps us keep going become a member of the youtube channel
so your name highlights and your special in the live stream chats when we do these i'm moving to
florida have mercy on me once i get there then we can uh keep the live streams going but i don't
know if i'll be doing another one before i move so i'll see you when i get get to florida and thank
you for joining me guys and christie i look forward to that book getting some cells let me know if we
get some uh we get some people who get your book because this is your first publication
all right son do you want to know what the truth is after this there's no turning back
you take the blue pill and you wake up in your bed and believe whatever you want to
you take the red pill and you stay in wonderland and i show you just how deep the rabbit hole goes
remember all i'm offering is the truth nothing more
oh
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh
