Help MidVision keep bringing you material by becoming a Patreon member, as well as PayPal.
Like, share, subscribe, and comment.
Timing asks this question, especially since it's raining jizzing.
Noah's Flood and the Biblical Story of the Ark. For many centuries, if you will, scholars,
especially since the Enlightenment, have recognized there's something going on here
with the Noah's account and the Epic of Gilgamesh. But not only that, every culture in the world
practically has a flood narrative account of some type of catastrophe dealing with a flood,
and so in your particular research, I can like spout off what other scholars I've had on talk about
how creation and floods always have something to do with one another, anti-deluding worldviews,
and stuff. What do you find going on with the flood of Noah and the Epic of Gilgamesh?
So the flood in Genesis 7 is one of my favorite examples when people ask what my show is about.
Because it's one of the most clear examples of an external myth and its influence on the Bible.
So what we have is we have this flood where this God decides to destroy the world with water,
because people aren't doing what they're supposed to do. They're causing trouble,
so the world's going to have to be cleansed. Or if you look at Genesis 6, right before that,
there are these giants called Nephilim that are running around, and they are causing trouble,
and they're the reason we have to destroy the world with water. Either way, the world has to be
destroyed, and Noah is the person who is tasked with gathering up all the animals and building this
boat so that the world can essentially be remade after the flood waters have receded. Now this story
is not unique to the Bible, but at the same time it's also not recognized worldwide. If you go to,
say, Japan, they don't have these torrential rains that causes flood. Their flood myth is about a
tsunami. If you go to someplace like Peru, they live up in the mountains. If there was some kind
of flood, they wouldn't know about it. The flood myth they have isn't even theirs. It's a flood myth
that belonged to people who live down by the coast, so it's a completely different flood myth.
And what you have basically is that ancient civilizations often were near water, and these
bodies of water would often flood, and so each nation or each city-state or just each little
group of people would end up with their own flood myth. And to notice flood story, we can actually
trace this thing back about 5,000 years. This goes back to about 2,900 BC, and if you trace it back
that far, we find not a myth, but an actual historic event. And so what happened was there was a city
called Shorapak, S-H-U-R-U-P-P-A-K. So you can go Google that, the flood of Shorapak, and what happened
was this city on the Euphrates River. So this would be southern Iraq or northern Kuwait. I don't
remember exactly which. But this city, 2,900 BC, it floods. Rain further upstream causes the water
to rise, floods the city about 22 feet deep. And since most people can't swim, a lot of people die.
So flash flood, a lot of people die, extremely tragic event, and it leaves a mark on their society.
And from this, they develop a myth called the myth of Atrahasis, A-T-R-A-H-A-S-I-S.
And this myth of Atrahasis is about a man who builds a structure and he gets some people
and a bunch of animals on it, and they save these people from the flood. And this allows them to
rebuild the world after the flood is over. Now, this story, it grew and it spread and it evolved.
And as it did, it became the story of Ziasudra. And the story of Ziasudra, it added on more details
and it spread further away from the city of Shorapak. And as it did, more details were added on,
the story grew even more and it eventually became the story of a man named Utnapishtim.
That story grew a little bit more and it spread a bit more and eventually some people were
collecting short stories and they were taking a bunch of different short stories, primarily about
a king named Gilgamesh, but some other stories as well, including the story of Utnapishtim and his
flood. And they took the story of Utnapishtim in its much evolved form and they added it to the
Epic of Gilgamesh. And then the Epic of Gilgamesh did something that most stories of the time
didn't do. It basically became mass produced. People were cranking out these clay tablets,
printed in cuneiform, baking them hard of stone, and these things they were traveling,
being distributed. They end up on multiple continents and translated into multiple languages.
That really didn't happen at the time. And eventually the story, the Epic of Gilgamesh,
with the tale, with the myth of Utnapishtim, reached all the way into Israel. And we know it
reached Israel because we have this thing colloquially named the Megiddo Fragment. This is a
portion of the Epic of Gilgamesh that was found in Israel. There was an excavation,
I believe, early 20th century, like 1920s, 1930s. Don't quote me on that date. Some people were
digging and they found, you know, pottery, all sorts of things. But a lot of stuff kind of got
tossed out. A guy digging through a refuse pile found this piece of clay with these scribbles on
it and thought it was important and brought it to him. And he's like, Hey, look what you threw in
the garbage. And they were like, Oh, my God, this is cuneiform. You know, we've got cuneiform,
the our oldest writing system. We have this in Israel. This thing was later translated. And
they're like, this is part of the Epic of Gilgamesh. Like 1000 years before the the Old Testament was
compiled, they were reading the Epic of Gilgamesh in Israel. And the story, the myth of Utnapishtim,
was in the Epic of Gilgamesh. It's a prominent scene. A Gilgamesh, he finds Utnapishtim and
talks to him asking about the secret to immortality, how to live forever. And Utnapishtim
recounts his, his whole journey, his whole ordeal with building this giant arc and getting all
these animals and everything else, the whole flood and releasing birds to find out if there's dryland
yet and yada, yada, yada, yada, you know, the story thing. Yeah, right. And eventually it comes to
rest on a mountain, not Ararat, because this was a whole different part of the world. This was a
mountain and I believe it's a mountain in Iraq, but don't quote me on that because it's been a
long time since I did my episode on Gilgamesh, I mean on Noah. Anyway, this story is so similar
that the first person to translate the story of Utnapishtim, he was translating this thing and he
believed he was reading the oldest copy of Noah's flood anywhere on earth. And then he realized this
was from a whole different culture, a whole different religion, a whole different people,
an entirely different mythology, and it had nothing at all to do with the Bible.
But then scholars realized it had everything to do with the Bible because this was an older
form of the story. And so I think in my episode six called Ark Encounters, it, I detail I think like
24 direct parallels in the same context, in the same order from the story of Utnapishtim to the
story of Noah's flood. So Noah's flood, the Noah's story as we have it in Genesis, came from the
story of Utnapishtim. And the story of Utnapishtim evolved from these earlier tales of Ziasudra
and Atrahasis. And these stories were based on an actual historic event, a regional flood
on the Euphrates River about 5,000 years ago. And in this flood event, the waters rose up
about a little over 20 feet. And a lot of people in the city died. Now, we don't know exactly which
flood because there were several over the course of about 150 years, I think three or maybe four.
But there was actually in, you have not mistaken, in one of these they actually found a sort of
almost like a watermark residue left on the walls of the city. And they were like,
here's the height of this flood. And this is a detail that's in Ziasudra, it's in Atrahasis,
it's in Utnapishtim. They all say that the flood was 15 cubits. They all give one measurement,
15 cubits. And so while we see all these details kind of growing and evolving and changing,
and eventually becomes a morality tale by the time we get to Noah, this one detail of 15 cubits
or 22 feet, it remains the same. And we actually see that in the story of Noah,
because it says that in the story of Noah, the flood waters rose up 15 cubits. And then it says
over the highest mountain, as if Yahweh guided the ark away from the Middle East. And he went
all the way over to Mount Everest. And he said, Noah, I need you to get a rope with a weight
and cast it over the side and take a measurement. And then he pings it back up and says, wow, this
is 15 cubits. And Yahweh's like, good. And then he tows the ark all the way back to Turkey and
deposits it on Mount Error. Yeah, it's because they're talking about this, this flood of 15
cubits. But then they're doing like every story before it, they're making it a little bit bigger
and a little bit bigger. And they're like, 15 cubits above the tallest mountain that we don't
even know about. Which in the book of Enoch, they actually talk about like the seven tallest
mountains. And they're all within the Middle Eastern world. And so according to them, the
seven tallest mountains on earth are around like, you know, Israel and Turkey and Egypt and Saudi
Arabia, you know, and they don't even have one of the top 50, you know, is their very small world
view. I mean, they thought the world was only a few hundred miles wide, maybe a thousand. So.
But yeah, that's what that story is. It's a historic event, a localized flood on the banks of
Euphrates, or it flooded a city on the banks of Euphrates that killed a lot of people. It left
a mark on the culture. And from that, a myth developed. And then that myth grew and evolved
and it spread. And as it spread, it changed. And the hero, he also changed as it became
adopted by different cultures. And so you have Atrahasis, and Ziasudra, and Napishtim, and
eventually Noah. In Noah, and I want to probe a little just to see if you have any insight on
this, because you may or may not. And it doesn't matter if you do. I just figure I'd ask. I'll just
make something up the funnel. Noah's gets off the Ark. They start back over again. And he's back
in the wine. He's drunk. Oh, yeah, he gets hammered. Is this anywhere in the epic of Gilgamesh
and this uncovering of his nakedness and stuff? Is that not there? Or is that not in that specific
it's been a while since I read Gilgamesh, which is a shame because I used to read it like about
once or twice a year. I haven't read it in a couple years. I don't think that scene is in
Gilgamesh, the scene where Noah gets drunk and passes out. And then it was that Ham comes along,
or his sons come along, they find him naked, and then Ham covers him up. And then Noah gets upset.
And then he curses Ham's children. And so, you know, and that's where you basically get the whole,
you know, curse of Cain and then all the rest. That, I think, is actually related to a completely
different myth that in fall, Amy Jill Levine has a lecture series you can get through Audible,
or the teaching company of The Great Courses, all about the Old Testament. And she talks,
she actually talks about this, and there are these other Near Eastern parallels where you
have this God, and it has, I think, like three children. And one of these children comes along,
and while the God is asleep, castrates him. And then he ends up cursing him or whatever.
And these scholars who are far smarter than I will ever be, numerous scholars have made this
connection. They think this is, it was originally a castration story. Even though Jews later, and
they want to translate it as either he slept with this wife, or he could be an act of homosexuality
supposedly, like they've taken things and ran with. Right, right. It's almost like,
it's almost like they're aware of the parallel, you know, in their voice, and they're like,
we kind of don't, okay, it's all right that he's kind of a drunken bastard, but we don't want him
to be castrated. They do the same thing with Genesis 6, Sons of God, like, I just watched,
yeah, well, maybe they're not actually the sons of God, they're the children. The children is real,
you know, or their canines. Right, right. But numerous scholars, like I said, Amy, Jill,
Levine, and numerous others have, have, you know, talked extensively on this, and they're
pretty well convinced that this was a castration story. I mean, it doesn't make sense that you
just saw him naked. I mean, look, you just spent like a couple of months on a boat, you know,
and I mean, what, you, these kids have never seen their dad naked. What, what are you talking about?
You know, oh, he got drunk, he passed out, they covered him with a blanket, and for that he's
going to curse them for a thousand generations. That makes no sense. And how would he even know?
He got drunk, he passed out, and then it says he woke up and saw what his son, Ham, had done.
Well, what did he do? If his, if his son, Ham, saw him naked, and then walked off,
you know, what, Noah woke up and was like, Oh my God, I'm naked. I bet my son saw me,
I'm going to curse his children. What, it makes no sense at all. But there are near Eastern
parallels and in those, he's castrated so that, you know, basically his line ends with them and then
they can go on and have their own kids and he can't. I mean, look, you know, we have numerous
instances throughout the Old Testament where you have one of these national leaders, a patriarch
of some kind, whose wife is barren, you know, now at this point Noah's like, what, 600 years old?
His wife probably wasn't going to have too many more kids after the flood,
but he's got three sons who all have wives. One of them is probably like, yeah, I don't want to
catch dad with my old lady. I'm going to go take care of this while he's drunk. And I could see that
as a way of historicizing this mythical tale of, I think he was Uranus,
who was the one involved in the original myth. Go look that up. But yeah, there's a thing about
the Old Testament by Professor Amy Jo Levine and she goes into this in amazing detail. It's
recommended reading for anyone who wants to understand the Old Testament. Yeah, I emailed
her and she's declined coming on the show right now. So I don't know if that's some two friends
right now or not, but I have emailed her. She's like, she's a professor. She's probably quite busy
and she probably gets a million requests about this, especially because her stuff pops up on
autumn all the time. Yeah, you know, okay.
