Ladies and gentlemen, join MythVision's Patreon not only to support us but there are 72 videos
that I did with Dr. Dennis R. MacDonald and Richard Carrier all on the Patreon Early Access.
You guys can ask personal questions when I go to interview these scholars and your help
on MythVision Grow.
Dr. Dennis R. MacDonald, my good friend Derek Bennett, he's only my friend because his name
is Derek.
I'm just kidding.
He says, Apologist put a lot of stock in the list of appearances of the risen Christ,
contained in the Creed from 1 Corinthians 15.
What do you make of this Creed?
And does it lend any weight to the idea that early Christians believed they have seen the
risen Jesus?
Of course they believed they saw the risen Jesus.
Paul himself says that Jesus appeared to him.
We have in the book of Revelation someone who claims to have gone to heaven to see the
glorified Son of Man and so on.
Of course early Christians had visions, Jews had visions, Greeks had visions, modern Muslims
have visions of Fatima and the prophet, especially Fatima.
I have friends who are Coptic Christians who say that the Virgin Mary appears to Coptic
Christians thousands a year and there are people that count them.
I had a friend in high school who, no, in college who claimed that he had seen Elvis Presley.
The idea that people have visions of people who had died is not scientific, but it's
psychological.
We have an ancient tradition that Romulus was ascended and a group of his army saw him
rise and that a certain senator saw him in a vision and he must be alive.
Or the cross that was seen by Constantine.
Or the cross of Constantine.
Now if I'm a rationalist and I would find all of those claims, including the claim of
Paul himself, to be problematic.
They are historical in that historical people have visions.
But to put effort into that and say that, therefore, Jesus must have been raised from
the dead is going way beyond the psychological to make an ontological historical claim that
simply does not make any sense in the world.
And if you consider how many people claim to have had visions of the dead, I have friends
yet the community where I live that claim that they have conversations with the dead
on a continuing basis.
This is a part of humankind that I don't understand.
But I know that there are psychologists that deal with this kind of thing and to say that
early Christians didn't have those kinds of visions, but actually saw a historical Jesus
is really playing unfair.
And so I get very annoyed at that argument, but I have historical arguments that go further.
Would you tell me what it means to see a spiritual body?
Paul says that there are physical bodies and spiritual bodies.
Jesus was raised with a spiritual body and the dead are going to be raised in the spiritual
bodies.
All right, that means that Jesus appeared to people with a spiritual body.
I don't know what that means, but Paul believed it.
Yes, that's a historical fact.
Paul believed it and no doubt the Corinthians bought into that stuff.
Now what does it mean?
Why does he say that Jesus appeared to the twelve and doesn't mention Mary Magdalene?
Why is it that he doesn't mention an empty tomb?
Because Paul is trying to show that Jesus' body came out of the tomb.
But all he talks about is visions of Jesus with the spiritual body.
I think it's this straight, you're saying Paul didn't believe a body came out of the
tomb.
No, you don't need to have an empty tomb to have a spiritual body come out of a tomb.
This brings up a good point, because so there's a couple scholars I'd like to bring up in
the midst of probing you on this topic to get your thoughts, if that's okay.
Yeah, no, no, go ahead.
So Delcey Allison, Dr. Allison, I'm going to be seeing him in October, brilliant mind.
He is a Christian, he takes this continuity approach where he tries to say that he thinks
Paul thought what the Gospel authors thought, right, he makes the continuity.
But see Dr. James Tabor, Jim Tabor, he says no, Paul's understanding is purely that this
is a spiritual body, this is not a physical body that rose from the dead, that he is seeing
a, I guess you could call it an apotheosis of Christ, right, a spiritual body of Christ,
had a literal flesh and blood.
So he sees discontinuity while Allison sees continuity.
Since discontinuity seems to be what you and Jim agree on, can you explain what you think
the Gospel authors are doing by adding the tomb narrative?
Because people will go, okay, then Paul says in 1 Corinthians 15, he was buried, at least
he says that much, and we all agree on that.
But buried in a tomb, no, empty tomb, no, just buried and resurrected, whatever the
hell that even means.
So then the question is, what are the, what do you think the Gospel authors are doing
with your interesting Homeric spin in things that I love so much?
Do you think that plays a significant role as to why there's empty tomb narratives?
Absolutely.
So why, why the empty, empty tomb?
I can see John saying touch my body, you know, like this is already trying to deal with the
critics, I think, who are in there saying, you didn't rise, no, no, no, we got to, look,
this guy actually touched him and ate with him.
We know he was alive.
Look at this word, this letter, you know, they trust the testimony of John or whatever
it might be at this time.
But what about early Mark?
What the hell was Mark?
Well, in fact, let's go back earlier.
Okay.
The Q document.
In the Q document, Jesus says.
And this is after Paul?
No.
About the same time as Paul.
Okay.
In the Q document, Jesus says, you will not see me until you say blessed is the one who
comes in the name of the Lord, which means that he, like the prophet Elijah, will ascend,
not appear to anybody, you will not see me and then return in victory in some way and
restab this to temple or whatever.
Luke's business about touching Jesus and recognizing him from his wounds, which then
appears also in the Gospel of John, comes right out of the Odyssey.
Odysseus comes home and he has to show his father that he's come home after 20 years.
And he says, look at me.
I am he.
Here's my wound that I suffered as a boy.
And Eurychlea is the one who washes his feet and recognizes the wound.
He shows to his slaves that he is who he is by means of the wound.
The idea of the empirical touching of Jesus is to show that he is not like a Platonic
disembodied spirit.
It's a resurrection of a body.
That's why you have an ascension.
But the ascension is not something that would be conceivable for the Q document, and it's
not even implied in Mark and Matthew.
So what's going on in Mark, let's say, Jesus dies and he's buried.
In the burial, it takes place by Joseph of Eremethia, who plays the role of Priam in
getting the body of his son Hector from Achilles.
Mark needs to end his narrative with the resurrection, but he apparently thought he
could not end it with Jesus appearing to the disciples directly.
Why is that?
Because if he appeared to the disciples directly in Jerusalem, he should have reminded them
to go to Galilee out of harm's way because Mark's writing after the Jewish war and the
temple was destroyed, the Jewish community was decimated, and Christians, we know, were
killed in that, and presumably the apostolic circle, it was still there according to the
Acts of the Apostles, which can't be trusted in this regard.
But anyway, that was a tradition that they, and we know that the Jerusalem church failed
to survive after that, so it was decimated.
So Mark needs to have another character appear in the tomb and tell the women, oh, he's
gone before you into Galilee, there you will see him.
Did the women tell anybody?
No.
No, because they were afraid, which means you can't blame Jesus for the movement not
going back to Galilee.
You blame the women.
The women failed to tell, therefore the disciples in their church stayed in Jerusalem, and
that's why they were killed.
You blame the women.
So the advantage of an empty tomb is that you send Jesus to Jerusalem, and so the tomb
is empty, you have not Jesus in the tomb, but a young man in the tomb, he tells the
women to go to Galilee, they're going to see him there, and they don't say anything.
So it's a very clever, so we also have a big tradition in antiquity called the Cenotaph.
A tafas in Greek means a tomb, and a seno means it's empty.
So this often happens, for example, if a sailor dies at sea and doesn't have a burial, so
you can't bury the body.
So you create a cenotaph in his memory so that people can still give him postmortem honors,
so you have this idea of empty tombs of people for whatever reason either escaped the tomb
or the body couldn't be found and so on, and I have a doctorate dissertation that was written
by me, it was really quite good, on a combination of cenotaphs and appearances, where people
appear after their deaths, like Romulus, that's probably a good example, probably the best
example, but you have other examples of it too, and he collected probably 70 examples
of it.
So Jesus rose for real.
No, I'm just kidding.
People thought Jesus rose for real, but they didn't agree about what that meant.
I thought about Matthew 28, I think it is, somewhere in 27 or 28 where they go to Galilee
on this mountain and it says that many worshiped him, but some doubted, and when I look at
that I can't help but go, like I tell this to Christians too when they want to argue
with me, I go, you're looking at the Lord supposedly, risen Lord, people are worshiping
him at the mountain here in Galilee, they supposedly see him, and some doubted.
I said, you know, that to me is just what that does for me, and I don't know, maybe
you can correct my thinking on this, but it makes me think what they were thinking they
were seeing wasn't sure enough where they weren't doubting, like doubting Thomas is
a perfect analogy of how someone's doubting, their doubts are rest assured to the point
where they're no longer doubting, it's like, okay, we know you rose according to the narrative.
No, here, you got the Lord in their presence supposedly, people are worshiping him,
but some doubted. Now, there might be some literary reason that's there.
No, I'll take your word on it, I'd like to see the text again, but that's interesting.
You would, I'd like you to get into the Greek, because I already know you'll blow my mind if
you look at the Greek probably having something to say. Oh, I'm not sure, yeah.
But so the empty tombs, it's a common motif when people die that you give them something that they
location that they were in, and they're no longer in like Romulus, which we don't even know if he
historically. Well, let's go back to that. Okay.
Paul and Luke certainly disagree on the nature of Jesus's post-mortem body.
And that's what we would expect, that an event that is historically questionable, people are
going to have different understandings of. For Paul, Jesus's post-mortem experience is much more
like that of Socrates, who abandons his body and goes to a place of bliss, and he tells those
around him, his friends, that if they're righteous, they can have a similar positive
post-mortem experience. Luke comes along and he knows for Corinthians, apparently, he apparently
knows the Pauline corpus. And what's his attitude? Uh-uh. Jesus is, he ate with the disciples in
the Acts of the Apostles. He could offer his body, and this is a quotation from the Odyssey.
He says, A spirit does not have flesh and bones as you see I have. Antichlia, in the Odyssey book 11,
Odysseus can't hug her, because she says, Psyche, Psyche's souls in the nether world
do not have flesh and bone. They are the same words. And so what Luke's job is to say,
this is not like the Homeric afterlife, where there's no flesh and bone. This is the ascension
afterlife, where actually people ascend and have flesh and bone. And those parallels are really,
I mean, it's five words that are identical. I love it. I pulled up the inner linear here in
Greek text, Matthew 2717. And this is English and then Greek. You could probably decipher that if you
read it. Yeah, no, that's exactly the way. And when they saw him, they believed but some doubted.
That's exactly what it says. Yeah. No, that's a good observation. How did they see, you know,
if we got really common sense here, you know, me and you, and we saw something. Okay.
Like, I could imagine if I was like, did you see that? And something happened for a second.
And you were like, no, I didn't see it. And you doubted it. Or it's like a phantom type thing,
or something, or you're, or I'm experiencing something, but you're not or something. That
makes sense. Assuming here's Jesus flesh and blood risen from the dead. I mean, that makes no sense
to me at all, that someone doubted and here he is, you know, that doesn't make any sense.
That's a good observation. I hadn't thought of it that way. One more thing about Paul, please.
The Corinthians believe there's a resurrection. So it's not about whether there is a resurrection.
Their issue is, is there a resurrection of the body? And they would say there isn't.
That it's more platonic and very much like Philo of Alexandria, too, who has this radical
platonic dualism between soul and body. And the soul is what gets protected. And there are reasons,
in my dissertation, and other people have said it, too, to think that these people were influenced by
Jewish, Hellenistic exegesis out of Alexandria. And that they believed in the resurrection,
but didn't involve the body. But Paul, in from a Jewish context, believes in the resurrection of
a body, but he doesn't want to say it's the resurrection of a flesh. So he says flesh and
bone in the same chapter, flesh and bone cannot inherit the kingdom of God. So whatever inherits
the kingdom of God is not flesh and bone, but it is a resurrection body, a spiritual body.
Well, that's an oxymoron. I mean, I don't know what that is. But if it's a spiritual body,
you don't need an empty tomb. That's the point. And this point has been made by others. Now,
remember, Paul's earlier than anybody. So our earliest witness to the resurrection is that
people who elucinated and saw the risen Jesus, and Paul doesn't know anything about Mary Magdalene
or an empty tomb, or Jesus inviting people to touch his flesh and so on, the inconsistencies
are interpretable by social identity theory and mimesis. But they're not interpretable in terms
of systematic theology. Thank you.
So
you
you
