Breaking news, Dr. Scott Stripling has discovered the oldest known Hebrew inscription ever found
in Israel. It's a couple hundred years older than the oldest we once had, which has the name
Yahweh on this inscription. It's talking about cursings and here I interview him. We have a
difference of ontology at the end of the day. Maybe our epistemology is a bit different as well,
but let me tell you something. He's a great guy and I can't wait to learn more from him,
but also I plan on having voices of others who might have a different way of looking at this
in the future. Let's give congratulations to him for the hard work that they've been doing in this
discovery, and who knows what else we haven't found.
Today some breaking news has come out, and I have Dr. Scott Stripling with me today to talk about
the oldest known Hebrew inscription ever known, discovered in Israel. Welcome to MythVision. How
are you, my friend? Hey, Derek. Thanks for having me. Thank you. I look forward to learning from you
what we can know that isn't published yet, because I'm sure you know some things you can't tell yet
until publications, so just let me know if you plead the fifth at times. I get it because sometimes
I might probe deep and try to figure out things, but first and foremost, I want our audience to
know who you are. You've never been on MythVision, and Dr. Scott Stripling serves as the provost at
the Bible Seminary in Katie Houston, Texas, and as the Director of Escavations for the Associates
for Biblical Research at Kerbet, El Makatir, I hope I'm saying it correct, and Shiloh, Israel.
Scott is a sought-after speaker at churches, conferences, and seminars, and today he's joining us.
So thank you so much. What did we, I almost want to join you and say, what did we find? Like,
I'm excited about this. What is it that you discovered? Well, no, I like the way you joined in.
John F. Kennedy once said that failure is an orphan, but success has many fathers, and so
there are clearly many people to credit that were, you know, part of my team and the sacrifice, and
it helped us to bring this to fruition. But what we did essentially was to go back and
wet sift using a new technology, an old excavations dump piles from the 1980s, and in the process of
doing that, we recovered a curse tablet, a small folded lead tablet called a depixio,
which is folded about only two by two centimeters. And this, stylistically, we knew what it was,
and I thought I saw, with the naked eye, gliptic remains on the outside, but lead, you know, how
do you, how do you scan through lead? Ultimately, we did find a lab in Prog. Czechoslovakia that
had a track record for doing this, and they had published other things that they had scanned through.
And so long story short, we were able to do thousands of scans on the tablet, and then with
post-processing, we were able to recover text from the inside.
Wow. There's a lot of questions there that I suspect you would, people are going to ask. But
first of all, congratulations. I want to say that again. This is exciting. I love finding out stuff
about this. Big fan of biblical material and finding out more about what is the truth? Where
is this stuff coming from? And of course, someone who has a faith background as yourself, this would
play a pivotal, a motivational factor in your research, and maybe even just kind of validates
in your, in your mind the background you have. But without going there in particular, I want to
ask some more about this stuff. I'm no archaeologist. Dr. James D. Tabor did post about this for those
who haven't seen his blog. Go check out his blog. He actually has a few images on there that are
showing you what is released right now pertaining to what is found of the tablet, and it's a folded,
what is that? It's a folded tablet? Yeah. It's just, it was four by two centimeters,
but folded in half, it becomes two by two centimeters. Ah, okay. That's interesting.
So how common are those, finding a folded tablet? Well, it's, they're not that uncommon,
but they're usually from later time periods that we have found them. And many times they're not
found because for example, professors at Files team, although he was a great archaeologist,
they missed it. You know, they sifted everything and they missed it. And it's only when you're
using wet sifting. So we wash everything after we dry sift it, then we have a machine that we have
built that we then wash the material and then check it again. And I think there are a lot more of
these out there, but they're probably in the dump piles. They've been missed in the past.
I can't wait to find more if we do, but this is a great discovery. You can watch the video,
of course, there's a press conference where he's actually releasing what is being said on this.
We're going to get to that in just a moment, but my question is wet sifting, right? We have a few
skeptics who are already contesting this whole thing. And, you know, I spoke to Dr. Tabord,
he said, no, wet sifting is a professional method in trying to find these things out. So
maybe for our audience who doesn't know, what is wet sifting? And how does that process work?
Back in the 1930s, James Starkey at Laquiche, a very famous site in Israel, second largest
site in Israel in the Iron Age. Starkey was brilliant in his time. And he's the one who
first came up with this idea to wash the material. And it was revolutionary, but Starkey died an
untimely death. And I think he was so far ahead of his time that his colleagues and students did
not, because it's time-consuming and expensive, probably, they did not keep doing it. And then
literally the institutional memory was lost. And it wasn't until about maybe 18 years ago that the
Temple Mount Sifting Project in Jerusalem that Gabi Barkai founded, began to wash material that was
out of context from some destruction that had been done on the Temple Mount. I worked as a
supervisor on their project and became a big believer in wet sifting. And I made up my mind
that when I had the opportunity that I was going to employ it in the field. And so like at Shiloh,
we wash everything in situ. So we know exactly where it came from. But I still thought there would
be great value in going through dumps from the past. So in short, what we do, we excavate,
then we dry sift in a sieve, let the soil fall through so that we can see what's in it. And then
we check the best we can what's in there. And then normally 99% of excavations going on right now,
normally, that is then dumped. And that's the end of it. What we do is we take that material and we
run it down a funnel into a colored bag that corresponds to that square and that section of
the square. We label it, we take it to our washing station, and we keep the tag with it so we know
where it came from. We wash it. And then you can see unbelievable things. And in my tests that I had
done, Derek, I'd gone back to old dumps from the 1980s and the 1920s. And I was finding in their
dump four times as many small finds like scarabs and bull, for example, gliptic remains for every
one that they published, I was finding four in their dump. And this was astonishing. This means
that we've been throwing away 80% of the evidence of the small finds in the past. And so this just
is revolutionary, because if somebody says, well, we excavated it, Megiddo or wherever, and we did
not find evidence that supported the Bible. Why guess not when you're throwing away 80% of the
evidence, you know? Yeah. Oh, it's, it has huge ramifications. What we did was to take Zertal's
dump pile to take it through this process that I'm describing, and through that process is how we
recovered the tablet. I want to address our skeptic friends out here. And I am one, right? So I'm
somebody who might have a different interpretation at the end of the day about some of this material.
But I do want them to understand, I don't think they'd be so critical if this, if you were standing
here and you were actually William Deaver right now, or if you were, let's say, Israel Finkelstein
or something, they'd be like, oh, let's listen to this guy, you know, and they wouldn't have so many
issues. So I wish we would kind of drop our prejudices of people from their backgrounds.
You admittedly are a maximalist. You believe that the Bible is the Word of God, and that
it could guide us in a way. I've talked to Aaron Mayer, who's a great archaeologist and a good
friend of mine as well. And he's like, you know, some of these guys want to throw the Bible out
completely. And I don't see why it's not a tool. I mean, you may not necessarily want to just grab
it and look at it and see rocks and go, oh, this must be exactly. But it is a method that he thinks
that they're undermining themselves on not allowing it to be a tool. Listen, Eric, you've got to,
in that part of the world, the Bible is our go-to source. And so even those who,
it makes them very nervous, the term biblical archaeology, like it or not, most of the sites
that we are excavating in the Southern Levant are not mentioned in Mesopotamia. They're not
mentioned in the Egyptian literature. It's only the biblical text. Mount Ibal is only mentioned
in the Bible. That is all we have. Well, guess what? It's mentioned that there's an altar,
the altar is there, and now we have the textual verification of it.
So this is getting into some interesting stuff. This is where I really like that we're heading
already. As far as the text that was on this, Paleo-Hebrew is a pretty old version of Hebrew.
From what I understand, Hebrew, as we know it, it kind of took on this
Aramaic spin, if you will, during the Babylonian exile post. Pre that, you have Paleo-Hebrew.
And then this is a little older than that kind of Hebrew. Can you tell us about that?
Yes. So this is when you have a language like Middle Egyptian, and it's based on hieroglyphic
symbols. You have hundreds of them, you know, maybe 500, 600. I don't remember the exact number,
but it's hundreds of hieroglyphic symbols in Middle Egyptian. If Moses, let's say hypothetically,
that Moses did write the Pentateuch, the first five books of the Hebrew Bible,
it would have taken him a library to write it with all of those symbols,
because it wasn't phonetic. But when you develop a phonetic alphabet, now in a very truncated
fashion, you can write. And so when those symbols begin to take on sound qualities,
like an ox head, becomes the Hebrew olive, the first letter in the Hebrew alphabet. And we have
a bunch of those in our inscription. Now you've got the beginnings of something. And this happens
in this late Bronze I period, when the first phonetic alphabet begins to emerge, it's Egyptian
symbols that are becoming the Hebrew alphabet. And it's fascinating. So what we call that,
okay, well, there's different ways. The most generic term would be proto-alphabetic.
That way you're not going to offend anybody. Proto-alphabetic. It's the earliest version,
okay? But you know, if you find it down in the Sinai, scholars call it proto-Sinaitic. If you
find it, usually in Israel proper, they call this Proto-Canaanite. But I'm not willing to do that
anymore because this is not Proto-Canaanite. This is Proto-Hebrew. So in a generic sense,
we'll call it proto-alphabetic. But let's be clear, this pre-Paleo-Hebrew text is Proto-Hebrew.
Interesting. Okay, okay. So let's prove, let's go into something else here, the dating.
There's a couple things you mentioned, right? You found this in the, I guess, a dump site in the
east side, which was where the altar was from a 1980s dump area. And my question is like, how do
we get to the dating? Are they, are scholars looking at this? And I know that it'll probably be
published and they're going to go into extensive detail probably to verify and explain. But how
do we get to the dating on this particular find? Is it the language? Is it a combination of the
language and a layer? Do we know what layer this really came from if it was found in a dump?
Yeah, yeah. Great question. When Zortale excavated, there were only two strata. There was a
late bronze age strata and there's an iron age strata. And that's it. So your only two choices
are like LB2, late bronze age, and the very beginning of the iron age. That's it.
For an audience who's not like aware of times, can you put us a terminus ad quo,
terminus ad quim? You know what I mean? Sure. So he thought that the site was occupied from about
1250 to 1150 BC. Okay. So the end of the late bronze age, the beginning of the iron age.
I think it's probably a little older than that based on my analysis of the pottery. But anyway,
for now, let's just say LB2, iron age one in that horizon. So then the inscription
falls within that timeframe. And even at the far end of it, it's still the oldest
that we have. And I think that it's more to the early side, but even at the far side,
it's still the earliest. So the specific answer to your question is there's three ways that we
could aid it. Number one is the archaeological context that it came from. Number two is the
epigraphy, the style of letters, which I'm calling protoalphabetic. And there's many,
many parallels that exist of that that we'll be publishing. And then number three, the metallurgy.
So we have the lead tested. And the lead, Professor Nama Jahlomak from Hebrew University,
performed the analysis. And the lead was from an area in the Aegean in what we would today call
Greece, Lavrion. And the mines there are known for their lead mines. We have many objects from
antiquity that came from certain mines. And chemically, we can tell which ones came from
where. My point is that that mine was in use during the late Bronze Age two period. Okay, so
it doesn't rule it out. It can't prove absolutely that, you know, it's, it's LB two,
but it would be consistent with what you would expect. So those are the three metrics revealing.
So technically, the older date is in favor on your side so far as it looks. And if we were
giving the people who are like, I don't want it to be older, what's, what's the, what's the
newest, I guess, date you would put, and how much older is that? Even if you grant the minimal
approach to that, what is, how much older is it that the oldest found? I think, isn't it William
Beaver's fine? I'm not, I'm not certain. What is the oldest one prior to this discovery? And
if you weren't even granting your maximal approach, what would the gap be still?
Well, I mean, most people would talk about the Kayafa Ostracan that would be Garfinkel at
Kirby Kayafa would sort of look to that around 1000. You know, recently we have a new inscription
that's the Zarebabel inscription that may be 100 years earlier than that. And then even more
recent one that people are grappling with, it's not published, the Laakishmilt Vol'Ostracan that,
you know, can fall into that. But as far as sort of established scholarship that everyone
is accepted at this point would be the Kayafa Ostracan, that's about 1000 BC. And Derek, let me
say this, I'm more, much, much more comfortable talking about, from my perspective, the weight of
evidence lands here. Right. Not out to, if somebody disagrees, they have a different opinion, that's
fine. I mean, we have a saying where there are two archaeologists, there are three opinions.
Isn't that a cure? Sometimes I hold two of them simultaneously myself, you know, I'm arguing
with myself. I understand that these are complex issues. And so I wish in academia that we would
be more like this, that, hey, it could be this, it could be that. But in my view, the weight of
evidence pushes it, pushes it this way. Right. I think we far too often people are trying to,
you know, put us into extreme camps and like, you know, we don't have common ground.
I talked with Bill Lieber about this last year, I was speaking at a, he and I were together
speaking at a conference in Albuquerque. And I presented on this topic, I didn't have the full
text at that point. But I mean, it was very open to, to the possibility of what I was presenting.
Yeah, no, I agree with you. I was just trying to get the, the kind of an idea of where in
discoveries this would be dated. If yours is correct, this is, I mean, this really is groundbreaking,
even if it wasn't, but it is, it seems that the evidence is leaning that way. So if I could get
into some of the details that I think is relevant, first off, Mount Ebal, okay, so this is a biblical
cited place where Joshua's altar would have been. And whatever your approach is to this,
we have a text that's validating something like this would be going on. And when we look in
Joshua, we find some interesting things. When we look in Deuteronomy, we find some interesting
things about curses and blessings. So right there, we're on the same footing, there's something
going on. So I'd like to get into context without mention of Moses, Joshua, Israel, the division
of tribes and the book of Deuteronomy. How do you imagine this artifact connects to Deuteronomy 27
and Joshua 8? And how would you describe the artifact relative to the biblical texts?
Moses had commanded the Israelites when you cross over, and this is at a place called Shateem,
Joshua 2-1, Joshua 3-1, Numbers 25-1, modern Talal Hamam, where I excavated a number of years
with the team there. Moses writes the book of Deuteronomy, there we suppose, and then he goes
up on Mount Eboni dies. Joshua leads the Israelites across the land. When you come into the land and
you gain a foothold, you're going to go to Mount Gerizim and Mount Ebal, you're going to pronounce
blessings from Mount Gerizim, and you're going to pronounce curses from Mount Ebal. Now he didn't
have to explain to them that they were renewing Covenant. They knew that, that's how Covenant was
made in the late Bronze Age, and we have many examples of this. The Suzerain Hittite Treaties
that are in existence, this is well known. I wrote a book called The Power of Covenant in
Times of Crisis three years ago, not knowing we were going to have this discovery, and I write on,
you know, the five points of a late Bronze Age Covenant. The fourth one is Blessings and Curses,
and so what you do is you bind yourself to the Covenant. If I keep the terms of this Covenant,
these blessings will be mine. If I violate the terms of the Covenant, these are the consequences
with which I'm going to deal. So what do they do? They have victory at Jericho, they have victory at
I, I spent many years excavating, and then they go north and they do it. Then Joshua, they do what
Moses told them to do in Deuteronomy 27. Six of the tribes on Mount Gerizim pronouncing blessings,
six of the tribes on Maniwal pronouncing curses, and then Joshua 830 says that Joshua built an altar
on Mount Ibad there to the Lord. So Zertal finds and excavates from 82 to 89 a round, small round
altar that's two by two meters. On top of it is a large rectangular altar at the perfect geometric
center of it. It's to protect and to venerate that earlier altar. That later more grand rectangular
altar has gotten a lot of the attention, but that's not, that's not the key. It's the earlier one
underneath it. That's Joshua's altar. And many of us believe that that dates back to the beginning
of LB2. Others who take a late date of the Exodus, for example, may think that it comes to a later part
in LB2, but it's that round altar that, that Joshua, if you, if you're going to take the text,
the text value that Joshua would have, would have sacrificed for.
So it's interesting you said something that I just want to like side note other than my
little list of questions that I thought would be fascinating. This makes me think of the Hyksos
Expulsion, and then this also makes me kind of go to this later idea. Which position do you favor,
if you don't mind me asking? Oh, sure. I mean, there's a new book out, well, it's a year old now,
but Zondervan's New Text. Is it the Five Views? Yeah, the Five Views. And I mean, I wrote chapter
one. So, you know, there's, there's my view right there. It's all black and white in chapter one.
I took the early date of the Exodus, and I explained in my chapter why I think the Archaeological
Heaven strongly supports that. And then, you know, and I love that, that format, because there's four
other authors that get to critique me and I get to respond that we do the same thing to the other
views. It's a great learning tool. Thank you for that. I just figure I'd get our context for the
audience also to understand this would be that Hyksos position in an earlier context, if I'm not
mistaken. Isn't this 15th century, 15th century BC? When I'm 1400, we're saying about 1400. So,
the transition from LB1 into LB2, those who are taking the Hyksos Expulsion from Egypt is the
Exodus. That's a whole other theory that's not in Five Views. That's a subview, if you will.
So, I didn't read that entire book. I read a Hindu chapter one. Don't worry about the other chapter.
Okay, I do need to go visit it again, though, just to check it out. So,
context in particular, when I read the list of curses in Deuteronomy 27, these fit very,
barely clearly, if you will, within the specific program of the Deuteronomic Law Code,
which most scholars consider to be a product of a much later period, 8th to 6th century,
do you consider the artifact reflective of something much earlier that was later developed
within the text, or do you have a different explanation? No, I think it's very consistent
with an early text. And take that, the one detail, Joshua built an altar on Mount Yvonne. How could
an author 600, 700, 800 years later, how could he have possibly known a detail like that?
Because it's been covered now for 500, 600 years. The altar at Mount Yvonne was intentionally
buried and taken out of service. How's some guy going to know that six or seven, 800 years later?
So, when you get eyewitness details like that, and they're everywhere, it suggests to me that
there's a very early writing. Okay. And now we have the ability to do it. We have proof of an
alphabetic script from that time. And that's actually what your discovery is kind of showing,
too. It's like this language is actually out where or there. So, the question then becomes
kind of like what the text we have, kind of like today, right? We have a Septuagint of a Hebrew
Bible. It's like they later are kind of rewriting what you're suggesting was earlier. You're
suggesting you think there was a Deuteronomy that may have originally been written in something
what we see is much older. Yes. And so, Joshua is commanded to write, they're at Mount Yvonne
to plaster a stone, cover, take a big stone, cover it with plaster, and write the words of
the law on that. Well, that implies that he's literate and that people are going to be able to
read it. So, there's a general perception of illiteracy. So, Zertal, in his in his excavation,
recovered a large amount of plaster. And he saved it. Now, of course, it's the late professors of
Paletite a few years ago, without completing a final publication. Unfortunately, he saved that
and is now going to be analyzed with flat surfaces on some of that plaster. There was no technology
in the 1980s, like infrared and ultraviolet lighting, for example, to examine that plaster.
Now, we can expose it to that. And this would be phenomenal if it's examined. And you also have
written script on that. So, that would essentially prove, if that's not too strong of a word,
that it was written in the period that the text indicates it was written.
Wow. That would be really interesting to find all of these things come together. So, reliability,
do you consider it's problematic that the inscription does not correspond to the text of
Deuteronomy 27? I mean, like, for example, very inerrant, infallible verbatim,
you know, this text that you found, if you don't mind, tell us what is it that was said on this
cursing tablet, this folded tablet? And then, if you don't mind, like, how does that correspond?
If we don't have that text in our Bible, let's say, it's just, how do we see that? Is it reliable?
Well, I think it's a literary formulation. It's really a summary of all the curses, because
you've got, it's a legally binding document. Just think of marriage, okay? When a couple gets
married, they legally, it's a legal contract. And when they say vows to each other, that's the
blessing in the curses, you know? All the benefits of marriage that you're going to get, and then
the negative consequences, if you violate those vows, you know? It's enunciated. So, it's
it's a legally binding contract. I think our cursed tablet is a summary of all the curses
that are mentioned in there. And so, what it says, your second half of your question, is the word
Arud in Hebrew is cursed. And so, that word is used repeatedly, cursed, cursed, cursed, cursed by
the God Yahweh. And there you have the divine covenant name of God used. And this is by far the
earliest mention of Yahweh in the land of Israel. And you will surely die cursed. Cursed, you will
surely die. Cursed, cursed, cursed, you will die. So, it's what we call a chiastic parallelism. So,
it's an inversion. It's stating the same thing, and then reversing it or juxtaposing it. So,
it's really beautiful. It has a literary structure to it as well. So, this is almost like a,
if someone's going to summarize something today, biblically, you're taking the approach that
they're aware of this text, and they're just kind of summarizing these curses by writing this, and
of course, giving it to their God. Yeah, I mean, it's tiny tablet. There's no way that we want it,
you know? But I think it summarizes the fact that, and let me just make this point, Derek,
that tablet is left on an altar. So, even though let's say that I'm an Israelite or Joshua or
whatever on behalf of the nation, and I'm binding myself to this, I know I'm my human nature. I
know I'm going to sin, okay? I know I'm going to violate the covenant. That's problematic. So,
where do I leave the tablet on the altar? The altar is a means by which I get around the curse.
If I will repent and accept responsibility when I do screw up, then Leviticus 1711 says,
through the shedding of blood, there is remission of sin. And so, through this sacrificial process,
my vertical and horizontal relationships can be rectified without me having to die.
So, the fact that it's a cursed tablet left on an altar gives you the whole picture.
That altar, if you don't want me asking, were there sacrifices done on that altar? Did they
find remains of animals? Yes. The whole inside of the larger rectangular altar has ash and bone
of only clean sacrificial animals. And even inside the round altar itself, there was a layer of the
ash and the remnants of bone that were in there, too. Wow. Okay. I'm going to throw you my critical,
non-academic perspective. And I've talked to a couple of my friends that are in academia as well.
One of my friends is Dr. Kip Davis, who's helped talk with me about some of these ideas and questions.
We've kind of come together with some of these interesting things. He said congratulations
as well. He's like, this is really an amazing find. But this is kind of an interpretation.
I'm going to lay it out there and get your critical poke holes in it, do whatever you want,
or tell us it's possible, whatever. So from my perspective, a perfectly plausible explanation
for the relationship between the artifact and its find at Mount Ebal and the stories in Deuteronomy
and Joshua are that the biblical texts developed much later from an earlier tradition, which is
reflected within the artifact. Was Mount Ebal a mountain of cursing long before the invention
of figures like, let's say, Moses and Joshua and the stories about the conquest? This is a question
I have. And it's kind of a statement. What are your thoughts about that? I know you don't agree
with that, but is it possible that that could be the case? It is possible. You would have to then
assume a very accurate oral tradition has been passed down. Here's a couple of things for you
to think about, though, because the bar keeps moving. We keep getting older examples of written
Hebrew, for example. First, the text was written in the Hellenistic period, and that was no longer
sustainable. So it was the Persian period, or during the days of Josiah. But here's what we have.
We have the Kethephinum scrolls, the silver scrolls. And so that's seventh century. You have
number six. So that's Pentateuch. That's early, early writing. So the priestly blessing of number
six, we have written in silver. The paper decomposes. Only when it's on metal, like lead or
silver, that it survives. That's seventh century. But a century older than that, at a site in the
Sinai called Kuntilet Adrud, we have Piphos A and Piphos B. And you have the famous Yahweh and His
Asherah, that description there, talking about, you know, did God have a wife? But there's the
divine name Yahweh, and that's a century older. But what a lot of people don't realize is that
also on those Pithoi, you have portions of Exodus and numbers that are written. And that's a century
older. So now that's where we at. We're eight, you said? Eighth century. So the silver scrolls are
seventh century. Now we go back another century, and we've got portions of the Pentateuch that are
in the eighth century. I mean, so how much further can we keep pushing that theory back? You know,
now we will find something else, you know, with portions of it. Now we're in the ninth century,
and then we're in the tenth century. It's possible, but it's problematic.
In your mind, you're like, this is definitely problematic. I don't see why we're not granting
it to be older, granting these things to go further back. Let me play a complete speculation here on
this notion, as I'm pressing the critic in me, right, to make a point. I've been studying the
origins of the Qur'an and Islam. And the Islamic tradition wants to say the Qur'an, you know,
was there dictated by Muhammad. A lot of academics are saying the Qur'an is the earliest thing we
have in Islam. And it is something they think is early. And a lot of skeptics I hear that are
usually fighting back or try to go, no, no, no, and they're like, they can't stand that this
could be early. But then in my head, I go, say it did come from Muhammad, for example,
let's grant it. Does that actually validate or prove any of the metaphysical claims of Gabriel,
etc., which are later traditions? We find in the biography of Muhammad, etc., a couple hundred
years later, which would be a later in the day thing. I don't see what the problem is in that
respect. Is it possible we could apply that to a skeptic who has a completely different worldview?
Let's say they don't believe in miracles, they don't believe in the divine, but they're like,
you know what, I'm willing to go really old with this. I'll go with Scott and say, you know what,
I think that this is actually something that came from Joshua's day. I just, maybe I think these
are embellishments about the divine or whatever it might be. Is that an approach that you could say,
I can respect the guy who's willing to go? Absolutely. And in fact, I think that's a very,
that would be a very valid intellectual approach. Because, you know, for, we have Easter coming
up very soon. So for those of us who are Christians, you know, we're thinking and we have artifacts
in our museum that are like crucifixion artifacts. And I was telling a group going through our museum
last week, I can prove to you that Jesus existed. I mean, that's a historical fact. I can prove to
you that he died when he died, where he died and how he died. What I cannot prove to you is that he
died in your place. You know, that's, that's a matter of faith. And so take it back to Joshua,
you know, there's miracles that are talked about. Maybe you're saying maybe those are embellishments,
but the text is real. Right. I mean, all I can say is here's why I think the text is authentic.
I can't prove to you that God, I mean, for Mount Ebal, did you know you're a stone's throw from
where the Abrahamic covenant was cut? I mean, it was just right there. And I'll be in Israel
in October, by the way. Well, I was. I'll be back in this in the States by then. But do you see
what I'm saying? I cannot, I can see why someone would come to that conclusion. Maybe these miracles,
God came down at this spot. Maybe that's an embellishment. But how do I deny that the text
existed at that time? That's, that comes to the, the other problematic thing I was going to bring
up and get your thoughts on before I let you go. Because this, there's so much here. I do want to
find out when we're going to have this published fingers crossed and all that stuff. But you know,
one of the things me and Dr. Kip were talking about is we thought were problematic. Was that whole
the view about the reliability of the biblical text that the inscription does not,
it's not a biblical inscription, meaning like this is not actually saying, oh, Joshua verse,
you know, chapter five verse eight or whatever. This especially so in the view of Joshua eight
34 through 35, which explicitly states that Joshua read only the words that Moses had written,
that he read all of them. Doesn't the artifact rather clearly bring this claim into doubt?
Was the question or at least the confidence can't be certain, you know, what you're trying to say
is, yeah, this isn't a biblical like here is verse such and such from this text. You're saying it
gives enough off to say it definitely isn't contradictory to it. It kind of aligns with
this idea of cursings and blessings. Do you see why someone like me who would reproach us is kind
of hesitant to go, did the biblical text actually exist at this time? Or is this possibly an early
tradition of cursing and blessings and the biblical text maybe came a couple of centuries later?
Don't know how to approach it. What are your thoughts? What are your thoughts?
The word only is not in there. He doesn't say he only read those words. It's just that he read all
the words, but not only those words. Okay, this is a literary composition. The Bible has genre.
You have to have genre awareness. We have narrative literature. We have prose, we have poetry,
epistolary, apocalyptic literature. The Quran, to go back to your previous point,
the Quran does not have that. I mean, the Quran has much more of the character,
I don't have no problem with the Quran being written early, me personally,
but it has the character of dictation, you know, dictated from above, you know, this is the way
that it was. But in the Bible, you have all this literary variety. We have stories, you know,
take Joseph in Egypt, you know, he's betrayed by his brothers and, you know,
he has the opportunity to take vengeance on them, but he forgives them instead. And, you know,
the Bible, it doesn't come out and tell you what the moral of the story is. You read the story
and you're moved very powerfully, emotionally, about the power of forgiveness.
You do not have that in the Quran. I'm just saying, they're different genres of literature.
Right, right, right. So the fact that we have a literary construct here, a parallelism,
is consistent with the fact that it's biblical. And then finally, the name Yahweh,
I mean, how much more biblical can you get them at? This is besides the, the
solub hieroglyph down in Egypt, which is very early. That's LB2 also,
the land of the Shassu of Yahweh. So apparently there's a God Yahweh that's worshipped in some
land. Right. And then the Pippas that I talked about at Kuntid Lanaruz. But now for the first
time in Israel, from this early day, we have the covenant name of God and only the Hebrews worship
Yahweh. That's pretty biblical. This is an interesting point. I'd like to ask you,
what do you think is going to become of this? This discovery is amazing. I really, really
appreciate your time coming on and explaining to me and my audience and taking jabs and hanging out
and all that. What do you think is going to become of this? How is this going to change the
outlook you think of scholarship in biblical research and archaeology?
We hope to have it published by the end of the summer. So we're close to completing the publication
right now, six more weeks, but then it's got to go through peer review. And then, you know,
that takes a little time for the whole publication to happen. So hopefully by the end of the summer,
the world will know everything that we know, you know, and then everybody can argue about it from
there. Everybody throw your stones, you know, anyway. So anyway, what was your question? I got
psyched. No, how is this going to change the game? We're going to change things. Right. So
anyway, once we have it out there, this is an earthquake. It will have aftershocks and reverberations
for a long time to come. You know, these questions that you and I have talked about today, when was
the text composed and, you know, was there a literacy in an earlier period than we previously
thought? It's pretty huge. And there is a synchronism between what we read in the text,
at least in this case, between what we read in the text and what we have found in the archaeological
material. I was asked at the press conference, how big is this? And I said, well, on a scale of one
to 10, this is a 10. You know, it's big. I agree with you. And I like how you put that
syncretism, like someone might interpret this in favor of all the other data that you've talked
about as evidence that helps you come to conclusions, that this is like, look, it may not be that this
is Joshua chapter eight, verse five, right? But it is absolutely in agreement with what we're
reading in the biblical text as far as the tradition goes. And I guess it's like, no matter what
position you have, we're in agreement, at least on that level. And I can't wait to see what becomes
of this. I mean, I really do want to venture where the evidence goes. I got to go back and read your
chapter and the five views of Exodus just to see how you approach this. I'm wondering if you wish
you could rewrite that chapter now that you have this. You know, hey, I need to go back and reread
it because I talked about Maniwala in the chapter and I talked about some of the evidence, but we
did not yet have what we have now. So I should go back and reread it too. And let me let me give you
let me get your expertise here. You deal with critics, I'm sure all the time. What would you
say one of your biggest critics are in this field that if I were to interview them to hear the other
side, that's a fair critic because there's some people like we talked about someone on Twitter
already like trying to act like it's all bogus. It's like, come on. I wish I was smart enough to
fake this. I mean, come on. But who would you say is your biggest academic critic?
I guess I could identify myself as a maximalist, although I hate to use, you know, terms like
this, because I think in people who haven't been around us think that that means we're narrow-minded
or fundamentalist or something. And that's not the case. But if you're going to use terms like
minimalism and maximalism, then you certainly have some scholars from a minimalist school of thought.
And when I'm interviewed, you know, then usually the person doing the interview will go and get a
quote from the other side. And they'll come, same thing. When they're interviewing them,
they'll come and get a quote from somebody like me because I guess that makes good
media or helps sell or something like that. But I'm evading the question. I'll give you a direct
answer. I mean, I would say a fair person who would be more from the other side might be Deaver.
You know, Deaver initially did not think Zed et al. had found an altar on Mani Val.
I mean, you know, he was on the record. But now, you know, over time, I think,
shouldn't we all be willing to evaluate in a way and so forth? Over time, he's willing to,
you know, accept that there very well could be. And he's very interested in our inscription and
what it's going to come out. That's pretty fair assessment, I think. People tend to look to maybe
Israel Finkelstein as a titular head of the Minimalist School of Thought. And to an extent,
I suppose that that's correct. But I think Israel would, neither Israel nor Deaver or no one is
not going to be able to say this isn't a proto-alphabetic script. Now, they may disagree with what
it says because our problem, Derek, just in case you or your readers don't know this, with that
early script, it has not standardized. It can be read right to left or left to right or vertically
or horizontally. And so there's a lot of room for interpretation. And so, you know, other scholars,
when we release the text, they'll have to acknowledge that it's this archaic text. But
they may say, well, but if you read it this way instead of that way, it would say this instead
of that. So I think those are fair criticisms. I wonder if some of the publications you guys,
you know, will come out once this is peer reviewed and such will have some of the potential
explanations. If we went this way, this might mean that. If we go this way, it'll mean this.
I don't know. It's interesting. It's kind of like a backmasking on rock and roll albums in
the 1970s, you know, the whole album backward and it's Satanist, the devils working through the
Beatles. And so, you know, if we play this text backward, maybe we get something different.
Well, Dr. Shiflin, I really cannot tell you how thankful I am for your time and you giving me
an opportunity to talk with you. You're a fun guy. I'd love to meet you one day, of course,
learning more from you. Well, thank you, Derek. And there, you know, this kind of just hit a
couple of days ago. And I know there's a lot of misconceptions and ideas that are floating around.
So I was happy to get the chance to talk to your to your viewers and listeners so that they can
sort of hear it from the horse's mouth. Yeah. And I'm really, I think there's more to come. And
when we get more discoveries, or we find out that this is public, the publication comes out,
I'd love to talk with you again if you have the time. And one last thing, I'm only giving you
what's on the inside of the tablet. We've got writing on the outside, too. Okay, so stay tuned.
I can't wait. So is there any way? How do people find you? Do you have a specific website you would
recommend people go to? Yeah, thank you for asking. I'll give you three websites for those who
were interested in the Bible Seminary where I teach, where I'm the provost and the director of
the Archaeological Institute. That's thebibleseminary.edu. And one of our master's degrees is biblical
history and archaeology. So if people are interested in that, they can look into that.
Number two, digshilow.org. If they're interested in our excavation at Shiloh, it's digshiloh.org.
And anyone can come volunteer, including you. I'll save you a spot. And number three,
my personal website is scottstripling.net. Okay, those will be down in the description for everybody
who is watching. I really appreciate you. I'm looking forward to it. Maybe I can get a voice
on the other side who, I know they're not going to say it's not, you know, they're going to at
least say, yeah, this is authentic. This is legit. And that's the good thing. But how they are going
to interpret it will be interesting to hear different voices try to come at this and what
they have to say. Yeah, well, I mean, one criticism that, you know, is in the last 48 hours,
is floating around like, why didn't these guys wait until the academic article came out? That's
not the way that we do it. I mean, who's we and who got to decide that you get to decide how we
want to publish our stuff? You know, I mean, just lighten up a little bit. You don't control how we,
how we're going to do this. But, you know, beyond that, there were reasons why we felt like we should
do it now. But, you know, you're getting into nitpicking and almost ad hominem rather than
focusing on the content. Yeah, yeah, I'm thankful. I'm glad you came on to talk to a skeptic. Look,
you're, you know, like, but I love you. I really do. And I'm thankful for what you've done. You've
brought this. It's a great discovery. Can't wait to find more. If we're throwing away 80% of this
stuff, what else are we missing? I want to find it. So yeah, yeah, me too. Well, thank you so much,
Dr. Shippling and everybody. Don't forget, go down in the description. We have a Patreon. You can
help support us. Go check out his websites, the five views of the Exodus. You can go read his
first chapter. I recommend reading the whole book. You can hear everybody's views and never forget
we are MythVision.
