Ladies and gentlemen, we are live here at MythVision Podcast, ready to discuss the origins of Jihad.
There is much more that we will be bringing up in today's episode.
But I want to compare today's episode with the scholar Reuven Firestone that I had on the other day about Jihad.
There are going to be similarities, overlaps, comparisons, and differences.
And I hope that you take note, especially in a world where there are stereotypes in America.
I know it because I live here.
Towards those who are Muslims and not everybody thinks the same.
You'll find that today in this presentation.
And I feel very privileged to be the first time having a Muslim scholar who is a PhD candidate joining us today.
With that being said, stay tuned, like the video, check out the description, subscribe to our guest, and get ready to learn.
Thank you.
I hope you enjoyed my intro there.
Dr. Jihad T. Hashmi, welcome to MythVision for your first time.
Hey, Derek, thanks for having me. It's a pleasure to be on. I've watched you for a long time now.
And I just want to express my appreciation.
I've seen how you've learned and grown and you're now like a biblical scholar yourself.
So it's an honor. And I just I really like the fact that you obviously express an interest in learning, expanding your worldview, listening to different sides.
And so I just want to express my appreciation and thanks for having me on.
Well, thank you. First of all, I want to say thank you for bringing your expertise because we're very honored at any scholar who brings their insights.
I am a student. I hope to always remain one. So you might think, well, he knows a lot.
I don't claim to be an expert or scholar in anything.
I love to learn and I know I've watched you for a while on Twitter.
I've watched I've read some of your articles that you have on academia, which I should have listed.
But you see his YouTube channel like you can't miss him. You can Google him on on Google and find it.
In fact, let me put our names here. That way they know how to find you during our episode.
I also want to say thank you for being the first Muslim scholar who's actually come on my channel.
And you're going to be able to paint a different picture than what we had represented the other day by Dr. Firestone, who is obviously a Jewish academic.
And I think he was pretty balanced. I mean, I think he did a really good job, even though I know you disagree with him at some points.
So I hope to refer everyone into the description.
Show love to our guests. If you have any questions, super chat those questions.
All I ask is that you're polite. You can ask critical questions. Of course, he is a critical thinker, but just to be polite.
That's all I ask. So Dr. Hashmi, what have you brought for us today?
Yeah, sure. So Derek, where do you want me to begin? I know you said you wanted me to tell a little bit about my background first. Is that right?
I would love that. Actually, please forgive me if you could introduce yourself, letting us know why you're able to talk on this topic.
I mean, you're not just just random internet guy. You actually are doing a PhD and can tell us about your skill set here.
Yeah, absolutely. So I initially trained as a physician. So I am actually a part time practicing emergency physician.
That is not really my passion, though, to be honest. It's just what pays the bills. Humanities don't pay that well.
But I always knew that I had an interest in religion, the humanities, Arabic, Near Eastern studies.
So I've been studying this on my own for a long time.
But then after I finished my residency, I knew that I just wanted to jump right back in.
So I went back to the university. So I've been in the university for the last decade.
I got a bachelor's in Arabic and Near Eastern studies from UC Berkeley and two master's degrees in Islamic studies from Harvard.
And I'm now at the tail end of my PhD. I'm hoping, praying that I'll finish within the year. So I'm working on my dissertation right now.
Actually, your audience may know Professor Juan Cole. So he's on my dissertation committee. I'm writing on this very topic of Jihad in the Quran.
And so actually, I first presented my research at ICSA, the International Quranic Studies Association, I think, all the way back in 2017.
And Professor Firestone was in the audience. And I just got to say, he is a gentleman, a gentleman of gentlemen.
I mean, because my research is a little bit critical of his take. So I really enjoy his book like you.
I recommend everyone to buy his book. But I have a different take. And that's just how scholarship is. You have different takes.
And so I would, in part, I'm responding to him. He's not the only one. But he listened to my discussion.
And at the end, he just raised his hand and said, you know, I really liked your presentation.
But why do you got to keep picking on this guy Firestone? It was pretty fun.
So he's he's humble and it's just a collegiality. So I really appreciate that.
I appreciate that as well. It's great to see friendship and indiscriminate.
In fact, scholarship is all about trying to find out how the it's kind of like the scientific method in a way.
It's like, how can I show they missed something and that there is something there?
I must ask you as well. If I can ask any questions, let me know if there's something that is taboo or don't, you know, I'm not interested in answering.
But I think it's important to ask this question in light of the boundary between people who hold to a religion or believe in a religion and they study the academic approach.
And as we've talked before, some people kind of don't want historical methodology. And this is literally what I love.
I want to use historical methodology and not not people who draw conclusions of faith.
It's just I prefer historical methodology and then you can go from there if you want to draw your own conclusions.
So my question is, like, did you grow up Muslim? And then in what way did getting into I'll use Western scholarship or Western academia?
Has that helped you kind of even sharpen your skill set and understanding your faith better?
Yeah, Derek, that's a great question. So I grew up, I was born and raised Muslim. I was born and raised in California to very culturally religious parents.
So I grew up religious. But it was really when I got into college that I started studying my religion more deeply.
In college, lots of us go through different phases. This is like almost 20 years ago now. So I'm dating myself, but I definitely had a fundamentalist phase.
So fundamentalist decade probably is the way to put it. So at that point in time, I was what's called Salafi Wahhabi is another term.
And then I spent some years abroad in Pakistan where my parents are from. And that experience kind of made me realize, okay, this is what fundamentalists or fundamentalists or dogmatic thinking does when it has power.
And so that experience is what kind of shifted me in the opposite direction.
And it's actually quite interesting because in the academic setting, I would say that many of the Muslim graduate students that I've met who have more kind of reformist thinking actually come from the Muslim majority world.
They tend to come from the Muslim majority world, whereas people who have more traditionalist or conservative opinions tend to have just grown up in the West.
And that seems counterintuitive, but if you think about it, it's not actually.
So yeah, I started branching out and reading more about our tradition.
And then eventually I came along the work of Fred Donner, Muhammad and the Believers.
And it's quite an accessible book. It is written for an academic audience, but really for a general audience as well as one of those kind of crossover kind of books.
And when I read it, I realized, oh, wow, this matters.
I mean, whether you agree with it or disagree with it, I realized at that point in time that what we can call it now and you pinged this earlier.
What do we call it? Do we call it Western scholarship?
I started going in the direction of now calling it modern critical scholarship or even historical critical scholarship.
I like that.
Because it's not only people in the West now. I have some colleagues who live in Turkey, Pakistan, who engage in this kind of methodology.
And so I don't think we should just say it's purely Western, but it's fine.
It does the either or thing, though, that I'm trying to cut that out too.
I think it says trying to actually mitigate that difference and try to bridge the distinction between East and West, if you will, scholarship.
And we're trying to come together as much as we can.
Yeah, absolutely.
And to be honest, whatever terminology you use, there's always going to be problems.
Like if we use modern critical, it implies that the other approaches are uncritical and that's judgmental as well.
So any terminology you use is going to be someone's going to pick at you for it.
So I don't think that's too terribly important.
And sometimes I do say Western scholarship.
So I don't think we should get hung up on the terms or the terminology.
Well, I am one.
I'm a Muslim academic who firmly and fully accepts the historical critical method, which itself, by the way, is a misnomer.
It's not really a method.
It's more of approach and to the sources.
And so I now there are many Muslim academics who embrace the historical critical method, but I would say most of them do that in the privacy of the university setting behind closed doors or even in whisper in whispers in the hallway.
We've had, you know, we have some amazing conversations that I wish we could record and share with the world.
But if I could ask you about that.
Yeah, go ahead.
Briefly as we go along, if you don't mind me kind of like, because we're going to get into the topic, of course, but I think this is such a great first episode that I've had with myth vision.
I'm truly honored to allow and have you as a Muslim scholar.
Come on.
And that is, do you do you feel that there is why you're saying they have to whisper this is there like a serious, I don't know if the term is political within the within the academic academic circles and the religious circles is a pushback.
Is it hard to be able to be where you're at do you get a lot of criticism from those who are not interested in the method you're approaching this at, and we should just accept the tradition that has been passed down to us.
Yeah, Derek, great question. So we actually get pushed back from both sides. So now that, as you know from the historical the historical critical method arose actually from liberal theology.
So from Protestant liberal theological circles is how the historical critical method arose. So you have in the West and in Christendom you have thinkers who embrace the historical critical method and reconcile their faith commitments with that.
But that really kind of secularized now I mean religious studies has secularized.
So it's an interesting situation for Muslims who now enter the Academy because on the one hand, their academic colleagues may not be comfortable with them grappling with issues of faith.
I mean thinking that this there's no space no room for that in the Academy that should be completely secular and uninterested in questions of like relevance to one's faith.
And on the other hand you have people coming from usually seminarian backgrounds, like Mother Russia backgrounds, who Muslims who are more traditionalist who want to, you know, obviously are hesitant to embrace the historical critical method which challenges many of the traditional narratives and dogmas.
So you get pushed back from both sides. And so one of the things like so I've taught some sections at Harvard, and this was a this is like the diamond part of the graduate school but I taught in the Divinity School.
And we had many Muslim students converts to Islam and people born to Islam, who were grappling with their faith on the one hand and the historical critical approach on the other.
And I realized nobody actually addresses it in the academic setting. So I decided to just like break the ice and so on the very first section, I just stopped and asked the class, what the hell is it that we're doing here.
And I worded it exactly like that.
Wow.
And I could take this chance because I mean this is a risky thing that I'm doing because but I can do that because I have like a medical degree I can fall back on if I get kicked out of the academic world.
But the students really appreciated it. I mean they were like finally someone is like at least let's explore this how do we grapple with faith on the one hand and scholarship on the other.
And so that's kind of what I like to talk about and what I talk about with students and, and I'm one of the public Muslims was very public about yes we do need to embrace the historical critical method and ask ourselves, well how does that reconcile with our faith.
Wow.
I really appreciate you for being one of the few who are doing that or maybe there's many but I'm saying like there doesn't seem to be the overwhelming amount of people are not fans of it.
And one more question is we're diving into the subject matter is you mentioned you're very fundamentalist I was a fundamentalist myself of course we all have different paths and I ended up where I ended up and I'm still on this journey we call life.
I still have a heartbeat and blood pumping through my veins.
You came from a radical background where you found out I've seen you on Twitter just to kind of poke into this is that you found out even day if they knew their own history would probably go hold on there's problems here.
And I imagine you've been inspired similar to me to maybe write your dissertation on jihad because of your fundamentalist background maybe I asked to kind of.
Why do we broach this because the West and many people who are not academics or don't study Islam and all they hear the word jihad and they think 911 or they think, you know, like they automatically, they're not educated on knowing the meaning of terms and stuff.
And they think extremists or they don't really they have a stereotype if that makes sense. So, in what way did your background influence you wanting to write your dissertation on jihad as we broach this topic.
Yeah, it absolutely influenced what I study. And so actually, that's one of the things I asked my students I'm like, how do you study what you are. I mean, that's like, you are the subject of your study, which is an interesting thing when you're a believer.
So, yes, my background in now I would say I was never radical I was fundamentalist but yeah, but I know that's okay. That's okay.
The reason why I say that is the reason why well I still consider myself very devout. Okay, so this is like a myth. So we're on myth vision. So we guys have a myth that just because you're maybe what we can call on the liberal religion side doesn't mean that you're not devout.
This is actually one of the kind of points of like fundamentalists who want to claim that if you're more liberal in your thinking, you're suddenly not devout. In fact, I'm very practicing I pray regularly every day, five times a day.
I don't drink alcohol. I never engage in premarital sexual intercourse. And I'm pretty strict like in my practice actually more strict actually than a lot of the fundamentalists who are on YouTube.
You know, and Hyde Park yelling and screaming at people and so, you know, so there's no connection between the piety and the kind of your your religious thinking so that's that's what now to answer your question.
Yes, I would say that even when I was a Wahhabi.
There were there was some cognitive dissonance going on in my mind where because I grew up in the liberal Bay Area. And so I had these some of these viewpoints.
And they weren't matching with some of the thinking that I was the religious thinking that I was embracing. And one of the issues that would always get to me was the issue of violence targeting and killing civilians.
And this is one of the reasons why I kind of broke away from that kind of tradition because of this issue. And so that's why I decided to make my dissertation out of this topic specifically.
And there was just like, I mean, I remember one time I was at the gym. I had a workout buddy. He was non Muslim. And I mean, he can't be just one day asked me he's like, so is jihad in the Quran.
I was like, it was just such an odd question for me because yes it is but on the other hand, that's a loaded question. And so I thought, Hey, you know what, there's a need to study and write on this topic.
And even though there's been tombs and tombs written on it, I realized that my take is a little bit different. And so that's why I still think I can contribute to the discussion.
Well, I'm glad I could contribute to giving your voice out there as much as I can. I am I think we have a lot in terms as in terms of ethics, I think we both have a common goal.
And that is trying to create more peace. And I mean literally in in the literal sense of peace in the world that we live in and a better lifestyle better living condition for everybody.
Whereas there are some people that there are radicals right that take a more harmful approach. They're not a majority, but there is there are certain radicals.
So I hope that along this trip of getting into jihad the meaning of holy war and stuff as we discuss this because jihad doesn't even mean that. That's another thing we have to get into definitions.
We can also point to and say hey look teaching people not everyone who says they're Muslim thinks the same way just like not every Christian thinks the same way. I mean you had literally abolitionist and people who were pro slavery right Christians.
And they both could not see eye to eye on so many horrific things I would say. So tell us where do you want to begin with jihad.
Yeah, and right before we get into that I thought I could also make one extra point which is this is kind of a point of reassurance to believers like Muslims who might be watching this is that I the reason why I think we should embrace the historical critical method as believers is we want to know what the historical
critical method that Muhammad actually said and did. That's part of our faith. And so I believe the historical critical method is the best way to get back to that. Now you can never quite get back to that it's most.
It's an approximation, but it's the these are kind of the best tools that we have to get past kind of later tradition orthodoxy to get back to that.
And that's why the historical critical method was embraced by some Christian liberal theologians precisely for that reason. And the historical critical method is not always and this is something that I push back against my some of my non Muslim colleagues with is the historical
critical method is not always going to reveal something embarrassing or bad for Muslims. Sometimes the cookie is going to crumble in the opposite direction. And you're going to have times in which it clashes with the medieval orthodoxy on things that modern Muslims
feel uncomfortable with. And so, and I believe that jihad is one of those topics which is why so it's part of my dissertation, I argued that the Quran was later piously manipulated is what I call it, and the all it theologically militarized by the medieval exeges.
So this is this is my theory. Professor Juan Cole was on my dissertation committee agrees with it. And so this is one of the viewpoints that we can get into.
So I did want to share. So if you want to get into the substance of it, I did have make some slides we didn't talk about how I can share them do you know how I can do that.
Yeah, so there's a present button at the bottom here with the plus symbol in the in the screen, and then you follow the steps from there to share screen, and then it'll give you an option in window up at the top.
And while you do that I figure I might as well mention, you know, I've been studying just the beginning here of my research diving into Islam, using historical critical method, mostly have spoken to, I guess you say modern critical scholarship on the topic.
But I'm with you in the sense that, you know, I'm convinced that what we have in the Quran goes back. And I don't see any reason this is a person who has a different worldview than you, who has a different ontology, I don't believe in the Quran or the Bible or any of these things in terms of a faith.
But I am convinced that the Quran is actually portraying the words that come from Muhammad. So I am like, following in suit and in fact it was the historical critical method and talking to other modern critical scholars who say, look, this stuff goes pretty early.
There's no reason to think that this doesn't actually go back or at least we can't prove that it goes absolutely back to Muhammad but there's no reason to doubt that it may not have you know what I mean.
Yeah. And I totally agree with you. I'm just trying to figure out how to share my screen. It's asking me to change the privacy setting. Do you know what I need to add to the privacy? What program is it?
I don't usually get that. Is it going to be a PowerPoint?
It's a keynote, yes.
Okay. Keynote. I think I have Keynote.
Okay. It's saying Google Chrome. So I think this will do it.
You're not in Google Chrome or you are?
Yeah, so he's going to have to pop back in.
Ladies and gentlemen, I hope you're enjoying your day and Dr. Hashmi has to get that figured out so he can come back in here and share his screen to show.
I really appreciate the support. Dali Lama in the house. Good to see you. I saw, we also had Kalilandani actually in the house as well. So good to see you here. And there he is.
Sorry about that. It made me, it just rebooted for some reason. So let's try it now. It should work now. I apologize. I should have, I guess, done that before. So let's see if this works here.
I'm going to share my screen. Are you seeing?
You're not seeing the origins.
Slides, are you?
Seeing what?
You're not seeing the presenter slides, are you?
No, just on the origins of Jihad.
Okay, great. So yeah, I mean, before we get into what you just said, I would just say right off the bat that what I'm presenting is one of the three views out there.
So there are three different readings of the Quran when it comes to war and peace. The first one is what we call the evolutionary reading. Now evolution sounds like it's a positive progressive thing, but it's actually progressively more militant.
So this is the idea that when Muhammad was weak in the land, then he was kind of pacifist. And then once he got entertained more power in Medina, then he got more and more militant until he kind of embraced like a perpetual offensive Jihad against all unbelievers.
So this is the approach of the medieval exegetes. I would just say that this is not dissimilar to medieval Christendom. And I get into that with when I had my debate with Robert Spencer of Jihad Watch, he was quite surprised.
And so were many Christians that of what the medieval Christian views were. So I would say that that's no different in this case.
But it's also the view of people like Robert Spencer, the one I debated. Obviously they're going to embrace this idea because it makes the Quran look more militant and Muhammad look more militant.
And also it's the viewpoint of Sam Harris, which I hope we're going to watch his video today because you played him on your show. So this is the first reading.
The second reading is the polyvalent reading. This is the view of Professor Firestone, which was presented just a couple of days ago on your show.
This is the viewpoint that, well, there are different views in the Quran and no single view or doctrine is discernible from it all.
So the text is just kind of scattered and conflicting. And so you can take it in any direction that you want to go in.
And then finally, there's what we can call the holistic reading. This is the idea that Jihad or warfare can only be waged in self-defense.
This viewpoint was raised by many modern Muslim exegetes and is actually now the dominant viewpoint amongst modern Muslims.
One of the people in the Academy who has defended this view is the one on my dissertation committee, Professor Juan Cole.
And so this is the viewpoint that I take and I am defending. So these are the three different readings and we can look at all of them.
But before we go any further, we should start with our starting principles, which is exactly what you were talking about, Derek.
Do you want to repeat what you said about that?
Specifically, as a non-believer, as someone who isn't a part of the faith, I have been convinced by other modern critical scholars.
I'm trying to recoin the phrase so we don't have us versus them mentality as much as we can, that the Quran is early.
I would say no reason to doubt Uthman actually canonized what we see as the words of a man who we call Muhammad.
I'm convinced as a non-believer and I say that like I'm obviously not an apologist. I have no intention.
If something's ugly, I want to call a spade a spade. If something isn't true, I want to say this isn't true.
And I think this stuff goes back and I'm with other academics like this.
So I just want to say that if we can at least agree this stuff goes back. Let's start there.
And I agree with you. And so I should clarify when I talk to students and tell them how do we reconcile faith and historical scholarship?
In my view and in my approach, I think the historical scholarship, that's where we begin.
We don't take our faith commitments and then use those to do the historical scholarship because then it can't be critical.
So it's actually our historical critical scholarship that then drives our faith commitments or we conclude those after we do the historical critical scholarship.
So I agree with that approach.
And so I would say from a starting principle, we can accept that a Muhammad existed in 7th century Hijaz, that is Mecca Medina region,
and that the Quran contains his recorded speech.
So, you know, many Muslims will create this kind of dichotomy between Muhammad and the Quran, where they take the Quran as the word of God.
And then they say, you know, if you show them what the Quran says, they'll say, well, what did Muhammad think or say?
Look, even if you're a believer who takes that approach, just from the fact that even if you believe in divine inspiration,
the first person to say those words was the Prophet and that was in his mind.
So the Quran is our record of what Muhammad, the historical figure, thought and expressed.
So I think we can all accept that.
I'm taking it as an assumption that the Quran is a single author text.
This is the dominant opinion now amongst modern critical scholars, as you have implied or have said.
It's not a unanimous opinion, but it is the dominant opinion.
Stephen Shoemaker is one who is pushing back against this idea and has a wonderful book that was just published recently.
I don't agree with it, but I just want to put that out there that it's not a unanimous opinion, but he is in the minority when it comes to that.
So I do take the Quran as a single author text going back to Muhammad.
And as you rightfully said, I agree with the first compilation being in the lifetime of the third caliph, Uthman.
So the Quran did become a relatively closed text very early on.
Now, this does not mean that there are not variants and variations as you've discussed on your show before.
But what I would say is that these variants, these textual variants that exist,
no one has shown yet that any of these have any theological sectarian or political ramifications.
That is, they're not variants designed to put forward a specific view on those issues.
In fact, one of the reasons why we think that the Quran goes back all the way to Muhammad and became relatively closed early on is precisely because it doesn't contain historical anachronisms.
Unlike, for example, the Hadith Canon, which is full of historical anachronisms, including Sahih Bukhari and Sahih Muslim, those are full of historical anachronisms.
So from a modern historian's perspective, we're very skeptical towards the Hadith Canon, but the Quran we can take as going back to the Prophet.
Now, we can't rule out as critical scholars any interpolations whatsoever.
But I would say is the default presumption is that the text goes back to him and any interpolations would have to be argued for and defended.
Does that make sense so far there?
There's so much here that you mentioned too.
There are other tools you can use, not just that.
If you're someone like a modern critical scholar might try to argue from dissimilarity or is there a potential thing that you'd go, why would they make that up?
I mean, this is hard to read into the minds of someone in the Hijazi at this moment in time.
But you kind of wonder, why would they make that up?
And then another thing is the only other explanation I can imagine of not just giving it and granting it to the mouth of Muhammad or at least something he said or a phrase similar to something he said, is that what are we going to say?
Umar is going to somehow put these words.
I just don't see what the reasoning behind.
And I'm going with Akam's razor and I think it's pretty simple.
So I'm with you.
So yeah, you would expect, for example, right after the Prophet's death, there was a big controversy as civil war.
Who is going to be the caliph?
So there was a conflict between Abu Bakr and Ali.
You would expect that if the text was still open and amenable to manipulation, you'd expect that there would be certain pro-Aliad verses and certain pro-Abu Bakr verses, you know, Protestantism, proto-Shiaism.
But you just don't see that.
Meanwhile, you see tons of that in the Hadith canon.
And so the fact that the early community was in such flux, politically sectarian-wise warfare, civil war, you would expect the text to be full of these mentions.
But they're just absent from the text.
And so that's why we can take the Quran as going back to Muhammad since we don't see any of that.
This is an argument that Fred Donner raised very early on before all the manuscript evidence came and gave, you know, even stronger weight to that viewpoint.
Now, Stephen Shoemaker and there are other scholars as well.
Like even Angelica Newworth, I'm going to butcher the German pronunciation.
But they argue for something which we should pay attention to, which is the idea of a dialogical text.
In Shoemaker's case, he's really arguing that the community is kind of passing on this text, oral text, and so it's still open to modifications in that process.
But if that was really the case, you'd expect that someone would try to insert those things in the text.
And that's what Nikolai Sinai mentions as kind of a counterpoint to that.
I am convinced by that.
But what Angelica's argument is, is that she argues, and I think Firestone kind of implies this as well, which is it's a dialogical text.
And the way to understand it is like, imagine if I'm on the phone and somebody is just recording what I'm saying, but they can't hear the people that I'm talking with on the phone.
But I'm still responding to those other people on the other line.
And so their viewpoints are kind of getting into the text that you're transcribing by listening to me.
Does that make any sense to you?
Absolutely.
The way I'm explaining it.
Yeah.
And I mean, there's a lot of things that could be said about what you're describing here as well.
I look at Bart Ehrman's work when he talks about oral traditions and oral communication on some things, that sometimes, by the time it does get written down, it may not be verbatim what is being said, but is the gist there?
Is what is trying to be implied said?
And I don't know.
I mean, I like what was said the other day by Ruben Firestone.
He's like, look, there is a tradition that like there are scraps of stone and leafs and things that have like sayings from Muhammad.
This is the one thing I'll say to you, Dr. Hashmi, for our audience to hear me say is like, just keeping in mind, we want to know the facts.
We want to know the history.
But like, if you gave this, let's say we don't want to die on this hill trying to just be contentious on this issue.
You can grant this and you don't have to feel like, oh my goodness, because this goes back to Muhammad, therefore I must convert or something.
That's just a historical question that people are asking and trying to understand the reality.
I say that because I feel like sometimes, you know, using Jesus as an example, some people who don't think he existed.
You almost get the impression sometimes by very few that if he did, does that mean I have to convert back to being a Christian?
Like, it's like, no, we're just using historical methodology to try and figure out if there was a guy, who was he, what did he do, things like that.
So.
Sure, thanks for that.
And I think when you discuss this with Morayan, Van Puten, is that how you pronounce the last name?
I'm trying to be like Morayan.
But yeah, yeah, I can't.
I'm going to butcher it.
But I think that discussion that you had with him was a really good one.
And so I look, there are variants to the Quranic text, and there's so many variants that it's very difficult to say that the Prophet Muhammad said all of them.
And like Morayan said, that would mean that literally that's all the Prophet did 24-7.
So I'm not claiming that all the variants go back to the Prophet Muhammad.
What I am claiming, however, is that we don't have theologically significant variants, at least none that are super convincing.
There's a couple that some scholars have argued for.
But for the most part, we could say that the text does go back to him and it's well preserved as far as an oral text can be.
Does that make sense?
I'm with you.
All right.
And by the way, when I'm sharing this screen, it's not just my screen that's showing.
We're both here too, so people can see us.
Yeah, they can see little squares on the side, but they can see us.
I just want to know if I can pick my nose or not.
That's why.
Okay.
No, I'm just kidding.
Okay.
So the third point that I would say from a starting principle is that we should not read the Quran through the lens of the later Islamic tradition.
And that includes the Sira or the Prophet's biography and the Hadith Canon, which are the sayings and traditions attributed to Prophet Muhammad.
This is part of the historical critical method that a Muslim traditionalist will have a problem with for obvious reasons.
Okay.
But most modern critical scholars, it's just taken for granted now, if you're writing an article in Quranic studies,
that you're not going to base your argument on a Hadith report.
Now you could use historical critical method to claim that a certain Hadith report is very early.
And you would use like the criterion of dissimilarity, criterion of embarrassment, etc.
You certainly wouldn't be using the Hadith in the same way that a traditional or a traditionalist would use this Hadith.
So this is something that I wanted to clue you in on.
So you actually read it against the later tradition.
And that's where the modern critical method is different than the traditional approach.
The Quran is a late antique text and should be read in that milieu.
So really what we're doing is we're kind of taking the unfortunately what was done for a long time is even amongst like Orientalists was to study the Quran through the lenses of the later Islamic tradition.
That is like the exegetical commentaries, etc.
But we're now in Quranic studies have moved away from that.
And we're saying that is actually more about reception history.
If you want to know what the Quran actually meant to its initial audience, then in that case, we need to read it as a late antique text in conversation with, you know, contemporaneous societies.
And that includes bringing in language skills like, you know, Aramaic, etc.
And looking at the biblical subtext of the Quran.
I mean, I'm with you, my friend.
Now where I kind of wanted to put my own like little twist on this or emphasis is I think even though in modern, like in Quranic studies today, we've really made this a big push.
So Iqsa is all about the Quran is a late antique text.
And, you know, we, you know, Syriac, Greek, Hebrew, etc.
But one thing that I think we've ignored is the pre Islamic Arabian context.
So I think we should also contextualize the Quran in that pre Islamic Arabian context, which is different than the later tradition.
And it's a little bit different than, you know, just looking at what was going on in the Byzantine Empire or the Persian Empire, etc.
So and that will come to bear when I'm talking about Jihad because I'm going to look at, well, what was warfare like in the pre Islamic Arabian context.
And then my final point is that the Quran should not be read in an atomized fashion, but rather by discerning individual Quranic utterances and seeking the Quran's own internal context.
This is to say that I don't.
So the classical exegetes or the medieval exegetes, they used to read verse by verse.
And every time they would read a verse, they would then go into this prolonged discussion of that verse.
Quoting Hadith, looking at the what's called the Asbab al-Nazul or the Occasions of Revelation.
But they wouldn't really read one verse in context of the verse that came right before it right after it.
And these are what I call the Quranic utterance.
What were these Quranic utterances initially called?
Well, I go with what Adam Flouris says he's written an article on this.
I think they were probably just called Suras.
So initially, these little units of text or oral, you know, recitation, we could call them Suras, and that's different than the Suras that we now have today.
So those Suras would then join to form those longer Suras.
But the point is that we shouldn't read it in this atomized fashion.
Does this make sense at all? And this is different than this is where I'm a little different than Professor Firestone, because that's where I'm critical of his reading.
I think he engages in the same kind of atomized reading that I'm critical of.
If I may clarify or get you to clarify on what is meant here as well.
As I was reading Reuben Firestone's work on Jihad, he expresses this idea that later Muslim exegetes, commentators, etc. are trying to place certain Suras in a historical context.
And sometimes you just don't have data to kind of like know with certainty.
Oh, well, Muhammad said this when he was having issues with the Medinans and, you know, at this date.
And so they build kind of a background history to their interpretation when the Quran itself is not actually giving you that information.
And another issue that I found was like, like he mentioned in his book, and maybe you can clarify as we go along, is like, if it's a warlike text, sometimes they'll put warlike text next to it, even though they're technically one might abrogate the other.
So whoever probably, probably Uthman or whoever actually is compiling for sure, are putting certain text in front or behind to abrogate previous texts.
But what's the historical context so later Muslims are trying to kind of paint the narrative, if that makes sense to give context to it.
And you're suggesting we shouldn't do that.
Because we don't know like you're kind of in guesswork and the historical methodology. Sure, you can say, Hey, this is my opinion or what I think.
But like, is this what you're saying we shouldn't try to jump to conclusions about.
Yes, so what I'm saying is on your first point, I actually agree with you that we should be skeptical of the way the tradition or the traditional exegetes try to historicize segments of the text.
In fact, the article that I have just submitted suggests that so the way the tradition portrays it is first the exegete or jurist will determine when a verse was revealed in the lifetime of the prophet.
And based on that decide is this verse an abrogating verse or an abrogated verse.
And based on that decide based on chronology decide which text kind of rules the other text.
But in my article, I actually flipped this schema on its head and say that even though they portrayed it that way.
In reality, what they were doing was looking at the text that supported their legal or theological doctrine, and then claiming that that one came later and superseded anything that conflicted with it.
So there's a bias built into their assumption, like this fits what we want.
So we're going to make this later in the text, exactly.
And so what Patricia Corona argues and I agree with her is that the exegetes are ripping the current the verses out of its original context, and then recontextualizing it with the later tradition.
And so the question that comes to my mind I'm sorry I interrupt I get excited about learning.
The question that comes to my mind is then and I'm sure everyone's mind is, then how do we know what is implied by the text right like how can we ascertain what the text means, or is it supposed to be practiced as it's abrogated, or what is the meaning of the text like if we can't do that you see what I'm trying to get at.
Absolutely and I get this question asked by students as well when I say this.
So what I would say is that there are two views right now amongst modern critical scholars.
The first view is kind of what what could be called the extreme skeptical viewpoint, which is that we can't at all, and that makes it very hard to interpret the Quran, and you're kind of stuck when it comes to that.
The second viewpoint, however, which I would say is the more dominant viewpoint, and that is the one that's expressed in Sean Anthony's book, for example, on Muhammad, and I love it too.
Because I think he takes a more balanced approach, and the second approach is saying that we can at least construct a basic skeletal outline of the Prophet's life story.
This is different than the tradition, but it's also different than the extreme revisionist approach which says that hey we don't even know if Muhammad existed.
And maybe maybe he died two years later and was in Syria or Palestine right that's kind of the extreme skeptical approach.
But the more mainstream approach on modern critical studies of the Quran would say that no, we can accept the basic skeletal outline or how Sean Anthony, I think, puts it the low deaf version of the Prophet's life story, which is different than the tradition, which portrays the life story in extreme detail,
like even how the Prophet used the bathroom or walked or talked or sat.
What does beard look like? Extremely high deaf kind of thing.
And someone just said the very issue, right? So you need the Hadith, simple, obviously, right?
So you do need other sources outside of the Quran, which includes the Seerah tradition, the Seerah Maghazi literature.
And then the Hadith is something that you can look at as well, but you'd have to look at that with a level of critical scrutiny.
You can't just accept, I mean, if that person is saying that in the sense that okay, then we need to go to the traditional route, I think that's problematic because you need to use your critical historical sense.
So what the second group of modern critical scholars is saying is look, we know that the sources are problematic, but that's the case with all historical sources.
The job of the historian is to weigh different evidence and figure out what's more probable than not.
And that's how I think we should deal with it.
And how do you bounce back and forth just so you know between this and the slide, if that's cool with you?
Yeah, yeah, absolutely. Okay. Yes, please, because I think that's what I was worried about. The slides could get tedious for people.
So yeah, I'll go back to the slide then.
Yeah, going back to the slides. So what I want to say is that, you know, Patricia Krona is, right?
Yes.
I think you do. So is she like a pro Islamist apologist?
No, not at all. Right. So actually, I follow her approach when it comes to saying the Quran when it comes to this topic of jihad.
So she she near the end of her life realized that the best approach to studying the Quran was to read the Quran on the basis of the Quran alone.
And she's moving away from the exegetical literature, which at that time, because Orient, we can call them Western scholars, their training was with the Arabic language.
They get really excited and read the classical commentaries and then read the Quran through that.
She's saying, no, we need to break away from that. And this is a few decades ago that she's arguing this.
Wow.
So she's critical of that approach, which is overwhelmingly based on Hadith, indeed on Hadith as opposed to the Quran.
And what I would argue is that many of the Hadiths were circulated precisely to move away from what the Quran is saying.
So, for example, the very common example that's given is the punishment for fornication or adultery in the Quran is either lashing or house arrest.
But the tradition actually embraces stoning.
Now, it wasn't actually implemented historically at almost at all, but this is the direction it went in.
And what was used for that was the Hadith to put that forward against the Quran.
So Patricia Corona actually gives credit to the Islamic modernists who were the first to really read the Quran on the basis of the Quran alone.
That's what where I kind of come in because part of what I study is early Islamic history and chronic studies.
But I also study what's called Islamic modernism because I believe that if we really want to make the historical critical method something that's a joint endeavor between Muslims and non Muslims,
then we should recognize the predecessors that are Muslims themselves who engaged in what can be called historical critical research.
And so I believe that many of the modernists did engage in this starting in the 19th 20th centuries.
And so we should appreciate what they were doing.
And so here's Corona acknowledging that the modernists are actually, it's kind of instructive how they're reading the Quran on the Quran alone, as opposed to through the lenses of the Hadith or the Seerah or even the exegetical commentary.
And can you imagine just to throw this out there for people, can you imagine if we all read like pseudopigraph to interpret New Testament texts or read the Gnostics, right?
And this happens, you do find this, but like, I'm using the term Gnostics as an umbrella term for people that were heretics, not the heresiologist like Justin Martyr and other people that end up fighting against them.
Can you imagine then projecting what the Gnostics say therefore that's what Paul meant or something like that. It's like, we need to be very cautious.
Can you read Paul through Gnostic lens? Sure.
But was he one of them? And this is a very difficult thing. I like the scholars like Paula Fredrickson and others who want to place Paul within his Jewish context, want to place Jesus within his Jewish context.
Paul was not a Christian. He followed Christ, but he was not a and so I'm trying to analogize for my audience while you're presenting this of how we should be cautious when we investigate.
You're absolutely right. That's a perfect example of what we should not be doing.
So now Corona is writing in this book. This was published posthumously that she then started to read the Quran systematically just on the basis of the Quran alone and seeing how far in line it was with the traditional account.
That is the traditional Islamic account. And she says I was quite shocked.
She says it was also obvious that I had never really read the book before the Quran, not even the parts that I thought I had read.
I suffered yet another shock when I was asked to write the entry on war in the encyclopedia of the Quran.
So she writes further on war. Islam having arisen in a belligerent tribal environment, I expected the belligerence to be clear in the Quran.
I had never appreciated, however, how difficult it was for the messenger to persuade his audience to go to war and how much he, the prophet or the Quran insists on tit for tat no more.
The blood curdling passages in the Quran, she argues, are mobilizing rather than legislating.
So this beautiful passage pretty much summarizes my research is pretty much as exegesis of Corona's argument here.
Not really, I'm just exaggeration, but I'm saying that she's actually reading near the end of her life, the Quran in the systematic way.
And when she studies war and jihad, she realizes that actually the Islamic modernists are right.
The Quran is only arguing for tit for tat. And this is what I realized, and this is my unique contribution, is I realized the link between jihad and the sauce, which is the law of Talian and I for an eye.
The Quran sets the limit for warfare, reciprocal response. Now I'm going to show get into that.
But this is where I do take the view that the Quran is only endorsing self defense.
Now what Patricia Corona did was she ended up reading the book on the right, which is the Quran and in translated it's the Quran and combat.
This is by Mahmood Shaltout, who was an Islamic modernist at Azhar.
But he actually based his work or actually the first person to write something similar was Shirag Ali, who was operating out of South Asia.
This is a 20th century, or even 19th century Islamic modernist who wrote on jihad and argues and defends the view that jihad in the Quran is only allowed in self defense.
So, Corona reads this book by Shaltout, which is arguing the same way Shirag Ali did. And then this is what she says.
Around then I also reread Mahmood Shaltout on Holy War. He goes in for understanding the Quran in the light of the Quran, so she agrees with that methodology.
And then she says, the first time I only saw the apologetics. The apologetics were still clear the second time around, but so was the fact that practically everything he said was right.
The Quranic treatment of war is quite unlike what one expects of a tribal environment to produce.
Indeed, quite unlike what the jurist, that is the classical jurist, the medieval jurist, made of it.
As Shaltout notes, they have to postulate endless abrogation to make things fit.
So, Corona, this hypercritical Western scholar who's even been accused of Islamophobia in the past, whether one agrees with that or not, is now reading Shaltout's book that argues that the Quran only allows for defensive jihad.
And then she says, you know what, I think he was right.
So this is where I think that, and I had a lunch with Fred Donner on this, just meeting with him.
And I told him that I feel like some secular academics feel that we can only use the historical critical method when it makes Islam and Mahmood look bad.
But if any of the findings make him look good, then we accuse it of apologetics.
And he agreed with me and laughed and says, that's how it is.
Here, I think we should go beyond intentions.
So there are some modern critical scholars who come from a Christian background and even work at Christian universities.
And there are Muslims who are very upset at that and talking about their Christian backgrounds and saying that we can't accept anything these scholars write because of that.
I disagree with that approach.
I think we should stop looking at people's intentions and instead just see, does the data fit the theory that they're putting forward?
So what I'm going to argue here today is that look past the fact that I'm a Muslim and see, does the data, just as Corona, look past Shaltud's Muslimness.
You're not asking people to believe that a camel can fit through the eye of a needle.
You're asking simple questions, historically speaking.
And just a reminder, as we're getting into this, Logan Fisher, I see you in the chat.
Thanks for being a member too.
They're like, what is the definition of jihad?
So we'll have to broach that as we keep using the term throughout this presentation.
Yeah, so we can just answer that now.
If you'd like jihad does not translate to Holy War.
It comes from jahada, which means to struggle.
And so even in the Quran, there is a non-military usage of the word.
But we cannot deny on the other hand that it is used in a military context as well in the Quran.
And that might be the more dominant use of it in the Quran.
Historically, jihad has always had this multifaceted meaning.
So I think it'd be too extreme to kind of deny any military aspect.
On the other hand, it would be another extreme to deny any spiritual aspect to it.
For example, there was always the idea of this inner jihad against your ego or your nafs
or the spiritual battle with Satan.
It's kind of like, I would say the word crusade in that sense, that crusade also has this kind of usage.
But then words kind of get tainted.
And so now crusade is harder to use because of the crusades.
And jihad is kind of in that vein as well now.
Muslims themselves use jihad in a much more variegated fashion, if that makes sense.
Thank you.
So going back to Krona, I missed the elder, Shaltu's analysis.
But basically she says that actually Shaltu, who wrote that book,
he comes much closer to what the original meaning of the Quran is when it comes to war and peace.
And so, all right, so I'm just going to skip ahead here.
So he basically says that she basically says, Krona, that we too must read the Quran independently of the tradition.
All right.
And then finally, my last kind of Krona slide here is she concludes that fighting in the Quran is declared legitimate in self-defense
by way of preemption for the rescue of fellow believers and for the writing of wrongs,
including the punishment of wrongdoers.
The basic principle is that one should treat other communities as they treat one's own.
Though the language of the Quran is often extremely militant,
the principle of forgiveness is reiterated between the assertions of the right to defend oneself.
And so I'm putting forward this and I'm going to try to defend this view.
And then we're going to take a look at what could be called maybe problematic verses or verses that you have raised in your discussion before,
that we can take a look at and see is my view defensible or not.
So I agree with Professor Juan Cole, who says that the Quran is not a pacifist text.
However, what it does embraces what he calls preferential non-violence.
So the default position in the Quran is a state of peace.
This is at conflict or as opposed to the medieval Islamic exegetes whose default position was a state of war.
That was an imperial time in which you had to expand your empire or people would attack you.
So this is the default position has been war historically speaking.
But this is different in the tribal environment of Arabia.
Actually, here I defer with Krona and other scholars who kind of paint this negative view of the tribal environment of pre-Islamic Arabia.
I think pre-Islamic Arabia has gotten a really bad rap.
If we compare the violence that they engaged in compared to the violence that we engage in today, I mean, there's not even a comparison.
The violence that they engaged in, for example, it's well known that they engaged in raids, for example.
During the raids that the caravan raids, they usually didn't kill people.
They used to just come take the goods and leave.
And if you look at the battles, I mean, usually a very small number of people would actually die.
So I think this idea of this kind of blood thirsty environment needs to be questioned.
Now the Islamic tradition itself and the Quran itself does view the pre-Islamic situation as full of violence.
Because the Quran is trying to push back on blood feuding, which was a problem.
But it was still grounding itself in what's the pre-Islamic ethic of parity between different tribes.
And we'll get into that.
But the reason why I think the pre-Islamic Arabian ethic of war was less violence than what came after it in the time of Islamic Empire
was that there was no central state power in pre-Islamic Arabia.
So you just had different tribes.
And the tribes came up with the law of Talion, which they followed, which is an eye for an eye.
That's what maintained the peace.
When you don't have a huge superpower, you can't just have an ethic of we attack and keep attacking and keep expanding.
You actually have a more just, almost democratic kind of environment.
And that's why actually these tribal societies were proto-democratic in the sense that they had a chieftain,
but he was like first amongst equals, not like an emperor that came later.
So anyways, going back to the Quran.
So the Quran, it prefers peace over violence.
It does call for patience in the face of insult and injury.
However, sometimes war is indicated to protect people from oppression and religious persecution,
especially when the threat is deemed existential.
And here is where I think many non-Muslims, even some Western academics,
minimize the situation of the early believers when the Prophet Muhammad declared his mission.
We know from the Quranic text itself how bad the situation was and how the early believers were being persecuted.
Even then, however, the Quran stresses peace.
Peace should always be sought if the enemy is willing to lay down their arms.
The door to reconciliation is left open as Krona says,
the principle of forgiveness is reiterated between the assertions of the right to defend oneself.
So here's, for example, a verse in the Quran,
invite to God's way with wisdom and beautiful preaching.
So this is the default position that we should not go to.
Even when you dispute with people, you should do it in a gracious manner.
This is what this verse is saying.
And that's why I'm opposed to kind of these Dawagandists online on YouTube,
yelling and screaming at people and calling them all sorts of names.
This is against what the Quran is saying.
There's also the idea of no compulsion or coercion in religion.
Let there be no coercion in religion.
The truth stands out clear from error.
This is a very famous verse.
I would point people to Krona's article on this,
no compulsion in religion.
And what she actually finds that historically,
the Islamic, the medieval exegetes and jurists,
they actually didn't read this verse in its plain intuitive reading.
They actually did agree with coercion or compulsion in religion.
That's why there became laws on apostasy.
Law of apostasy definitely conflicts with this verse.
And Krona talks about this,
but then she herself says that the original meaning of this verse
was its intuitive sense against coercion.
Why?
Because the Prophet Muhammad himself was a quote unquote apostate from his tribal religion.
And so of course the Quran is going to defend the idea of leaving one's religion.
So this is what she writes.
This is Krona.
Above all, there are several other tolerance verses in the Quran.
Above all, for example, Quran 1099,
if your Lord had wanted it,
every one on earth would believe.
So will you force people to become believers?
Here it is explicitly coercion by humans as distinct from God,
which is being rejected.
This is what she's writing.
And so she concludes in her article that what the Quran is opposing here
is any form of coercion when it comes to religious belief.
So people are allowed to leave their religious faith.
I also want to make just a mention of what you described there.
It reminds me of the idea of sovereignty,
that it's like, you know, if God wants them, he'll do it.
You don't have to do it.
It's what it seemed to be implied in that statement.
You're absolutely right.
And that's part of the Quranic theology.
So it says right here,
and had your Lord willed,
all those who are on earth would have believed altogether.
Would you then compel men to become believers?
It is not for a soul to believe saved by God's leave.
So the Quran says explicitly,
not only religious freedom for the prophet's followers,
but for the others.
So whosoever will let him believe and whosoever will let him disbelieve,
that's explicit.
The Quran says he could have made you one religious community,
but he willed otherwise.
And so the Quran specifically commands the prophet and his followers
that you are not warders or guardians over them.
Your job is simply to remind them.
And quite explicitly unto you, your religion and unto me, my religion.
So I agree with the plain intuitive reading of these texts.
And I don't agree with those scholars who read these verses
through the lenses of the later Islamic tradition,
which moves away from this.
Because in the time of empire,
empires that were based on faith,
it's no longer appropriate to allow people this freedom in belief.
You have a serious fight on your hands, by the way.
I say that in like, I mean that like,
I hope that the interpretation that you're describing here
and what is, is what prevails,
because I would love to see what you're describing here,
the peace that you're describing here to be the case.
And I find it, it's got to be difficult in your situation.
I'm empathizing with you because you're dealing with not only non-Muslims
that obviously are wanting to kind of like paint a negative look.
And I see it all over the internet,
but there are a lot of Muslims in the world, if you will,
that may practice certain things that you wish they didn't.
And then you also have the exegetes and commentaries
that you're fighting against of Muslims.
So you have a very difficult uphill battle.
And this is why I appreciate the historical critical method.
I'm hoping it prevails.
Yeah, thanks so much, Derek.
So what I would say is that there is some good news on that front.
So there have been some, there's some scholarly literature on this.
This is now the dominant view amongst Muslims.
However, there is a cognitive dissonance.
And this is part of the construction of orthodoxy.
So orthodoxy is not this one unchanging thing throughout history,
as we know, as academics and religion,
we know that orthodoxy is always a construction and it's always reconstructed.
So now, if you go to Al-Azhar University,
and I've taken courses from Al-Azhar,
they actually now teach this view.
But they just don't highlight the fact that this is different
than what the medieval tradition says.
What that allows, this cognitive dissonance,
is for the reactionaries, the fundamentalists, the extremists,
to then point that out and say,
so what you have at Al-Azhar is people who are saying these things that I'm saying,
but they're trying to claim that this is,
or portray it as if this is what Muslims have always believed.
This is not different than what the Catholic Church does, by the way.
So the Catholic Church embraced, like, finally let go of any idea
of forcing, using coercion and religion very recently,
in Vatican II, pretty much.
And, you know, what's called humanitis dignitis.
I don't, you know, I'm not sure.
Some Latin word.
Yeah, some Latin word.
People made fun of my Latin pronunciation before, so I shouldn't even try.
But this is a very modern thing in the 1960s.
But the way orthodoxy always has to portray it is,
this is how it's always been.
So that creates the cognitive dissonance.
Does that make sense?
Yeah, no, I'm with you.
I mean, there's so many things I could go to Christianity and paint.
Even when you mentioned earlier,
it reminds me of the clear teachings Jesus has about turning the other cheek.
He seems, now there's a few verses you could read,
as potentially being violent, or at least coming with more disruption
and not to come to bring peace and stuff.
But what does he talk about warfare?
I don't, I don't read that into the text there, and I'm not,
I have no axe to grind, or I have no dog in this race.
But I do see, since you get it into an imperial power,
now you have Constantine on the scene,
we have to justify why we can fight in the name of Jesus, our God.
And of course, you see that start to take place.
So now you have just war theory of all these things that start to come up.
And I'm wondering if the same thing is what you're trying to imply happening throughout the history.
I think you're right.
And so the similarity is very close.
So I do think that the historical Jesus,
as we can construct him from our sources,
would indicate this kind of peaceful Jesus that we have in mind.
But if you actually look at the Bible overall,
I mean, you would come to a different impression.
For example, Jesus is going to come back as a conquering hero and slay everyone.
But that doesn't really go back to the historical Muhammad.
Sorry, the historical Jesus.
Right. That's the theology by his followers.
Or the followers of the followers, if you will, or something.
But now where the similarity also continues is,
I do think it's a myth that the early church was pacifist.
So there's a lot of good scholarship on this.
Even before Constantine, the situation is complex.
There was no single one view.
And there was this idea of being like prayer monks or priests
in battle with the Roman Empire.
So you do have to explain why the tradition and the medieval Christian
definitely militarized Jesus.
There was the Eid.
So Sam Harris says that, well,
Christians can just take the grace of Jesus and say that that,
you know, abrogates all of the Old Testament or you have to ignore it.
But historically, and I'm perfectly fine with believers doing that.
But historically, that has not been the case.
And I go into this in great detail when I debated Robert Spencer.
And he just wasn't familiar with his own tradition or history to know that.
So I think the situation is very similar.
And Muslims are in the same bind.
They want to, many Muslims want to embrace this kind of reading that I'm giving.
But at the same time, they don't want to go away from the tradition.
And so this is a difficulty.
What do you do in the situation?
Mostly what is hard on you.
I know, I know it's going to be tough.
I'm okay with going against the tradition.
So I've embraced that.
I'm talking about the stream is typically flowing in that direction.
You have a, you have to carve out.
It's hard to carve out a stream is my point.
You're fighting against this whole wave of thought that's been going on for quite some time.
Yeah.
And I, so to be clear, I respect tradition.
I think it has a vast resources within it.
But I just don't think that we need to like blindly follow it.
That's, that's where I fall.
So if we can continue with the slides, I'll just lay out the chronic verses now.
Just to give you what I think the chronic doctrine of warfare is.
So the, the unique contribution that I give is that I actually started with this verse verse 2178,
which is actually a very difficult verse to understand.
And it kind of caused some confusion in my mind.
And then I realized, oh, cassos or the law of Talion that is an eye for an eye is actually the pillar around which the warfare doctrine rests.
And that's when everything became clear to me.
Many scholars had noted that pre Islamic Arabia had this law of Talion when it came to tribal warfare,
but nobody was making the connection between that and the Quranic doctrine of warfare.
And once I figured that out, everything came into focus.
So what I'm arguing is that the law of Talion is the key to understanding war and peace in the Quran.
So if I just throw something out there too, I wonder, and I asked this recently of Ruben, Dr. Firestone, and I didn't dive too deep.
It's the fake concept you were describing earlier, like, why are you going to go and change him?
Let God do God's thing, right?
Quit playing God.
And I wonder if there's also this pre Islamic Arabian context of fate that kind of gets into the theology, if that makes sense about the early Quranic community.
You're right.
I mean, there were discussions about fatalism and predestinarianism.
You could read the Quran and that kind of hard, like strong way of saying that it's saying that God is the one who causes people to be guided or misguided and therefore you shouldn't do it.
You could read that in a software way because then the question is begged.
Well, then why do we even bother preaching if it's already decided by God?
But this is kind of a later theological dispute, but I don't disagree with you that there are traces of this in the Quran itself.
Okay.
Thank you.
Yeah.
So here are.
So what I did is I looked at the pre Islamic sources, the jahili sources.
Now these are questionable.
Scholars disagree about whether these are reliable or not because they were only recorded long after this was like an oral tradition.
I would say, though, the majority of scholars would fall.
And by majority, I mean just above 50%.
It is a contested issue.
But I think that we can look at these jahili or pre Islamic sources.
And I noted that when it came to warfare, it was all about the law of Talion.
So here we have an eye for an eye.
We slew in a requital for the slain and equal number of them.
So there was this idea of if they kill a certain number of our tribe, we're going to kill an equal number of their tribe.
If you kill a chief of ours, we're going to kill a chief of yours.
And there was the idea that you have to kill in parody.
That is, if you killed a chief, then if someone killed a chief in your tribe and you just killed like a commoner of their tribe.
Well, there was still an avenged blood because those aren't those people are not equal in standing.
There was the concept of blood money in the pre Islamic period, but it was considered a sissy option.
It was taking milk instead of blood.
Why milk? Because you would the monetary value of blood money was set to camels.
And so you have some poems which are talking about people who refused to like to quote unquote cowardly to like slay on the other side, like, you know, get vengeance.
And so you have these poem poets and often in the voice of women who are mocking these cowards and saying, you're going to accept milk when you really should be taking blood.
There's even a poem in the pre Islamic period called do not accept the blood with or the blood money.
And here you have some someone saying that he will not accept milk instead of blood.
Or he was telling if I was killed, make sure not to do that. Does any of this. Does this make sense, by the way?
Yeah, I mean the biblical like look, I'm not trying to say that there's some connection genealogically from the biblical.
This seems to be a well known thing, whether they're no mad. Well, I would imagine better when are some people who are probably situated here.
But yeah, I for an eye is a biblical law that goes way back to Hammurabi and I imagine the the tribes were practicing that as well.
Yeah, so what was happening actually was that they stopped doing an eye for an eye and went beyond that.
So in the in the poetry, you can actually see that we slew of them 100 in a requital for an old man, meaning an old man insignificant.
But you killed our old man. So we're going to kill 100 of yours.
Now, we should obviously take these numbers with a grain of salt.
And when it comes to battles, the numbers are always exaggerated.
But the point is from the sources, we get the idea that certain tribes thought of themselves as superior to other tribes.
And so they were demanding greater than equal retaliation.
And this created constant blood feuding. And there's like a famous battle that started over like a she camel that a she camel was killed.
And that causes this blood feud generation after generation.
And people didn't even remember like what started it, whether this is historical or not.
But but the point is that this is the context in which the Quran is being revealed.
And God is operating. OK, so the Quran endorses the law of Talian equal retribution as the upper limit.
But it recommends as a higher state of power, a higher state of piety, that pardoning is better.
You either take financial restitution, which previously had been considered a quote unquote sissy option.
Now, I don't that's gendered language, but this is how they portrayed it back then.
The Quran is saying no, it's actually an act of resolve and piety to take the less violent option, or even to just forgive out of mercy.
Now, there's another translation of this verse that I read recently by Sayed Soheb, I believe his name is, which I'm actually pretty convinced about.
But it doesn't really complicate my theory too much.
But anyways, the Quran then restresses whoever transgresses beyond these limits that as goes beyond equal retaliation, God will punish them in the next life.
So the Quran is setting the upper limit as proportionate response, but saying that you should pardon and forgive that would even be even better.
So that is the context that the Quran was revealed in.
Now, the prophet, and by the way, when I said revealed and I don't mean to imply you take historical critical scholars use that all the time.
So, I think, again, to stress that Western scholars and experts have often downplayed the persecution that the early believers faced.
And I think if you downplay it, then you can't understand the Quranic text because they were facing severe persecution.
How do we know that?
We know that even from the Quran, because there was a migration.
There was the first migration that happened after the first persecution or the first fitna, which was the migration to Abyssinia.
The fact that they fled all the way to Abyssinia indicates that the persecution reached a pretty high level.
And then the second migration was to Medina.
Now, the Quran at least affirms the second one.
We know that there was a migration.
So we can accept that.
The other thing that we know from the sources is that the pagan opponents actually chased the believers that fled.
So they went to Abyssinia to try to get them to be sent back to them.
And so it's not a surprise that they also tried to get the believers when they fled to Yathrib or now what's called Medina.
This point is often under-emphasized, I believe, by many Western scholars.
For example, we have this quote that's in the sources that shows that there was an ultimatum that was given.
So the prophet flees and his followers, they flee with their lives.
They actually tried to kill the prophet Muhammad according to the sources.
And we can take that as reliable because there's plenty of stories in the Quran narrated about past prophets that they had threats on their life.
And this was actually Muhammad kind of narrating their stories to talk about his own situation.
So we have reasons as historical critical scholars to take that seriously.
But once him and his community fled to this other city, it seems to me, even reading through the Quran itself, that the pagans wanted that other city to turn the believers out.
And here you have a threat that's given to their people that expel Muhammad or else we will march on you.
And so I think that's the context in which the Quran is now affirming self-defense.
So the Quran affirms self-defense, but only according to the law of Talian as the upper limits.
And still says that financial restitution and forgiveness are superior options, if possible, and patience instead of responding immediately is always the better option.
But what the Quran does that's unique is that it links warfare not only to Qasas or the law of Talian, but also religious persecution to Qasas.
So this I think is the unique take of the Quran.
And this is where holy war comes in, by the way.
And I use holy war in a very generic sense.
Many people take the word holy war to mean going out to go and convert other people.
And that's why I probably actually don't use the word holy war, but it is war that's divinely approved of because it's against religious persecution of the believers in defense of the faith.
And so what the Quran is arguing is something theological.
It's saying that so you had the Meccan, the Arabian pagans who were even torturing the weaker believers and forcing them to apostatize or leave their new religion and become pagans again.
And so what the Quran is saying is that's worse than killing them because if you kill them, they at least have the next life as martyrs.
But if they leave their religion in their hearts, not just on their tongues, but if the torture and the pressure forces them to leave their religion, then they're dying quote unquote in this life.
But they're they're losing the next life, which is even worse.
So what the Quran is doing is is linking fitna to Qasas and saying that once you engage in this fitna, you have now triggered the right to retaliation.
Does that make sense?
Yeah, I mean, I even as a non believer, I have to insert myself into imagining this world as I was when I was a Christian.
I really believed what I did now, what I believe now is going to impact the hereafter.
So I asked that anybody in the chat, while I personally, this is stuff I don't believe anymore, and there are reasons why I go into this on my channel.
You have to kind of understand what they're what they really believe and how important this message is.
This also tells me something of the context of what in which Muhammad and those who are there know about martyrdom, ideas, things like that.
So using historical methodology within the late antiquity, the broader world with the larger empires and Christianity, I do think has gone down there.
They're aware of ideas like this.
And so this is stuff I like to look at too.
It's like, they know of Abraham, they know of, you know, these biblical stories already.
He doesn't have to introduce it and then tell you, oh, by the way, let me tell you about something you've never heard about.
So I agree with you. So I do think it's possible.
I'm not averse to the idea that ideas of religious martyrdom from Christianity are evident in the Quran.
So martyrdom is an idea in the Quran of now this is not suicide bombing, right?
This is people dying for the cause of their faith and belief in their God.
I don't think that's something necessarily completely alien to the modern context.
Like today, if we are, you know, many Westerners are on the side of Ukraine and you have Ukrainians who are risking their life for their country and their sovereignty, their Ukrainian identity, they're lauded.
So I don't think it's something completely alien.
It's something very human to fight and die for your identity and beliefs or be killed right or be killed right and even be killed for them.
That's considered something honorable.
But in this context, trying to say that as well, it's not just saying to fight, but it's also saying it's better that they die.
Like if they're killed in their faith and don't convert, that's a better thing as well in this in the explanation here.
Yes. So what the Quran is saying is that if you if you fight, you have two options and both of them are good.
One is victory and you get free, you get your the freedom of your religion or be you die fighting and it's better to die fighting than, you know, that's saying, what is it?
I'd rather live on my I'd rather die standing than live on my knees, something along those lines.
So that's what the Quran is saying.
So to conclude, jihad is the combination of kasas with fitna.
This is kind of my unique contribution.
And now we'll look at the verses to see is this really a defensible thesis that I've put forward.
So here are some passages of the Quran.
The believers are those who defend themselves when they are oppressed.
So it's always in defense.
The recompense for an injury is an injury equal to it.
So this is what I said, the law of Talian.
But if anyone forgives and reconciles, such will have his reward from God, for he loves not the wrongdoers.
So this idea of the Quran is this bloodthirsty text.
Here you have the Quran talking about people defending themselves for their religious beliefs,
but still talking about forgiveness and reconciling with the enemy.
The Quran is very explicit.
There is no cause to act against anyone who defends himself after having been wronged.
But there is cause to act against those who wrong people and behave tyrannically upon the earth without right.
For them shall be a painful punishment in the next life.
But the Quran keeps stressing, but whosoever is patient and forgives, that is indeed a course worthy of resolve.
Here's another verse, another passage.
God will give a generous provision to those who migrated in God's way and were killed or died.
So there you have the martyrdom aspect, which is definitely in the Quran.
He is the best provider.
He will admit them to a place that will please them.
And then the Quran says,
So it will be.
And whoever has retaliated to an injury with no greater than equal to what injury he received,
and he is again oppressed, God will surely help him.
So the Quran is always limiting the response to a proportionate one and not to go beyond that.
And the Quran still stresses that, remember, God is pardoning and most forgiving.
So even verses like this where it says, drive them out where they drove you out,
I noticed that this is also the law of Talion.
That is, even when it comes to tactics, they drove you out from someplace.
So now you're justified in driving them out from that same place.
And there's also, this is underappreciated, which is the sacred months.
There were four sacred months of the year in pre-Islamic Arabia.
The Quran does not abrogate them.
The later tradition abrogates them.
So most Muslims today don't know that there are four months of the year in which fighting is prohibited.
Even if you're attacked upon, even if you're legitimately at war with somebody,
you're supposed to, both sides are supposed to halt during that month.
Why? To kind of cool down.
Now, if somebody violates the sacred month and does a sneak attack, for example, in the sacred month,
then you're allowed to do equal retribution and that's Qasas again.
Violation of a sanctity calls for fair retribution or Qasas.
So this is kind of the link that I'm noticing.
But the Quran is still saying that taking the blood money or forgiveness is a better option.
So here you have, and if you punish your enemy, then punish with the like of that wherewith you were punished.
That is an eye for an eye.
But if you're a patient, then that is better for you to be patient.
So be patient.
Your patience is only with God.
Forbear them and say peace.
Take to pardoning and enjoin right and turn away from the ignorant.
And should a temptation from Satan provoke you to respond aggressively, seek refuge in God.
Pardon and forbear until God comes with his command.
The command here is talking about the hour.
This is the idea that God himself will deal with them so you just be patient.
But the Quran acknowledges that sometimes you must fight and it gives the reason for why you must fight.
So permission to fight is granted to those who were fought because they have been wrong.
They've been expelled from their homes without right only for saying our Lord is God.
So we see that the justification is this religious freedom aspect.
Interestingly, the Quran defends freedom of worship for non-Muslims, Jews, Christians.
Were it not for God's repelling people, some by means of others, then monasteries, churches, synagogues and mosques,
wherein God's name is mentioned much, would have been destroyed.
This we can use the criterion of dissimilarity to actually say that this is definitely clashes with the later Islamic tradition,
which the medieval Islamic exegetes or jurists would say that non-Muslims, which were then called bimis,
aren't allowed to build their churches and synagogues.
Now historically, that wasn't really practiced much,
but the point is that that doctrine conflicts with the Jihad doctrine in the Quran,
which is literally saying that you can go to war in defense of monasteries, churches and synagogues.
What's going on here?
So this is a question that I had in my mind.
And if anybody thinks you're the only guy who's coming up with some of this,
I would refer them to a previous interview I've done with a scholar, Michael Prigil.
I'm not sure if that's his last name.
I'm actually on the Syriac.
Syriac, yes.
Michael, no, I know who you're talking about. He's a great scholar.
And I very much recommend his book.
I was going to say, here it is. I'll even post it on the channel.
Michael Penn.
Penn, right?
Michael Penn. I think it is. Let me hit this.
This company.
Right here. I apologize.
I think it's worth mentioning because he actually points out how like it was, you can even marry.
There were like, there was, it wasn't what it seems to later get.
There's like the antagonism toward people that are Christian or Jewish and things like that.
Whereas he's like, no, they literally like would marry even help build churches for Christians.
And synagogues for Jews and things like that.
This is stuff that like, you know, we only get this one picture of like, oh, these people are just, they're all wrong and have nothing to do with them really.
And that's just a negative projection as well.
Yeah, multiple modern critical scholars are of the view that Islam with a capital I Islam did not exist at this time.
I agree with this assessment.
So the Earl, that's why if you've noticed, I say the Prophet and his followers, the believers, because the Quran does not use the word Muslim that frequently compared to believers.
This was put forward by Fred Donner.
I think Donner got it mostly right, but I think he actually inverted it.
So I believe that the Prophet's immediate followers were called believers or Minoon.
And monotheists who are allied with him were people who submitted that they're Muslim Muslim.
So the wider word was actually Muslim.
That's why past prophets in the Quran who lived and died before Muhammad are called Muslim.
The word Muslim is used to describe all the past prophets, Abraham, Moses, Jesus.
They're all described as Muslim moon, that is, they submit to the will of God.
So the Quran is ecumenical, as Donner said.
And I think that's correct.
And that's because the boundary lines, the confessional boundary lines had not been firmly solidified in the early period.
We know this from Christianity.
In early Christianity, the boundary between Jews and Christians was not a firm line.
And similar is the case in early Islamic history.
And we're going to get into that a little bit.
So I'm almost done. I apologize for how tedious I'm making this.
So there is the non-aggression principle.
So I'm back to my slides in the Quran.
Fight in God's cause against those who fight you, but do not aggress for God does not love aggressors.
This verse, if you are really going to endorse imperial warfare and say we need to expand and conquer non-Muslim lands, why would you put this verse in the Quran?
So this is a question.
So aggression in the Quran, I argue, is killing or religious persecution.
That triggers a proportionate response.
The Quran is very clear.
If they let you be, do not make war on you and offer you peace.
God does not allow you to harm them.
The Quran endorses sanctity of life, that is do not take life which God has made sacred.
And it's if you take somebody's life wrongfully, then that is what triggers the law of Talian.
That is the equal proportionate response.
And this is repeated elsewhere.
So do not take life which God has made sacred.
Finally, the Quran also just because you have the right to respond, it doesn't mean that you just then fight the enemy till the end of time.
The Quran leaves open the idea that you might reconcile with your enemies.
So the Quran says it may be that God will forge affection between you and those of them with whom you are in enmity.
God is powerful and God is forgiving, merciful.
This is literally talking about the Arabian pagan foes of the Prophet who have persecuted the Prophet ever since he declared his mission.
That the Quran is still leaving the door open for reconciliation and affection between the believers and their opponents.
There is the idea that the Quran says that you can't befriend non-Muslims.
That is false.
The Quran says, God does not forbid you with regard to those who did not fight you on account of religion and did not expel you from your homes from treating them with kindness and being just toward them.
Truly, God loves the just.
God only forbids you from befriending those who fought you on account of religion and expelled you from your homes and supported your expulsion.
Whosoever befriends them, they are the wrongdoers.
So this is a very clear verse that's explaining those verses that are taken out of context to say that Muslims can't take others as friends.
The Quran has the peace principle that I call.
So if they fight you with lethal force, then you fight them with lethal force.
That is what such rejecters deserve.
But if they cease fighting you, then God is most forgiving and merciful.
So this is now talking to the opponents, the enemies, the pagan foes.
If you saw a victory, a victory was visited on you.
So now this is when the believers had a victory over the pagans.
And then the Quran is actually telling them to cease fighting.
So now they have the upper hand, but the Quran is saying, let's stop fighting.
But if you cease fighting, it would be better for you.
And if you return to fighting, we shall return to it too.
And your warrior host will do you no good, even if they be many.
The Quran repeats, if they cease fighting you, what is past will be forgiven them.
If they inclined towards peace, then you inclined towards it and trust in God.
So this is what I call the Quranic peace principle.
And that's why I've actually named my dissertation, Inclining Towards Peace.
Because I think we focus on the warlike aspect, but we don't talk about all the peace.
So the Quran was revealed at a time of persecution and warfare against the believers.
But the Quran is still stressing that it wants to get to the state of peace.
Just to sum up the principles of war and peace in the Quran.
One, there's a sanctity of life.
Two, the non-aggression principle that don't take someone's life.
But if somebody violates the non-aggression principle, then you're allowed to respond.
That's the proportionality principle, but only in a proportionate, using proportionate force.
Then there's the peace principle.
Even if you're now at war with them, if they inclined to peace, you inclined to it.
And finally, there's the truce of God, which I talked about, which are the four sacred months of the year,
in which it's a cooling off period.
So the Quran is not this warlike, hungry text that it's been made out to be.
Even the last surah of the Quran, many people think Quran verse, surah five is the last verse, is stressing now.
So in the Prophet's life story, he is able to march on to Mecca, his former home, and take it over.
This is often called a conquest, but as Juan Coles says, there was no violence.
Muhammad marched peacefully. It was a peaceful cavalcade.
Now it was, I mean, they were conquering the city, but no blood was shed.
Even the sources say only a handful of people who were like war criminals were like punished, but even that is questionable.
The Prophet Muhammad forgave, he gave a blanket amnesty to his former people who had persecuted him for many long years, his entire career.
He issued a blanket amnesty, and there's evidence of that in the Quran itself.
Many say that the Quran is telling the believers now that you've conquered them, let not hatred for a people who once turned you away from the sacred mosque lead you to transgress against them.
Help one another in piety and righteousness. Do not help one another towards sin and enmity.
This, by the way, this is right next to the verse where people think that this is like the last verses that were being revealed because it says,
this day I perfected for you your religion and have completed my blessing upon you.
The Quran stresses, O you who believe, be steadfast for God bearing witness to justice and let not hatred for a people lead you to be unjust.
Be just. That is nearer to righteousness and fear God.
So these are the last like verses and in this Surah, by the way, it's talking about intermarriage with Jews and Christians.
And so this is something that we should talk about.
So that's the end of my slides.
I did want to now go into the link that I shared with you if you have that ready.
Yeah, would you want me to play it first? Go ahead. Yeah.
Yeah, but if we could like pause.
So if you want me to pause, do I just say pause? Is that how you want me to?
Yeah, just say just tell me, hey, real quick, brief comment here, whatever, just let me know and I'll pause it.
Okay, so let me just because once I restarted, I had to like, I pulled up a document too.
And just to give context, this is a video I recorded responding to Jordan Peterson and his conversation with Sam Harris.
You want me to go ahead and play? Yes, please. Thank you. Here we go.
Oh, I'm muted.
Let's do this.
And Sam hits heads or clash is where they talk about the interpretation of religion itself.
Sam Harris brings up Islam as an example often in this talk, because there are extremes within the Islamic world that you don't see.
I want to pause and just emphasize, I guess you could find extremes, but contemporaneous.
I don't see the crusades and stuff, but one might argue the war in the West, like the way that America's machine operates.
You could argue, in some sense, there's driven ideology from the Christian world from that.
I don't know. You could try and make a case.
So I think this is a way of justifying Western violence, not the saying that you're doing that.
But this is what William Kavanaugh says in his book, The Myth of Religious Violence.
It's a book that Derek, you got to read. It's you're going to enjoy it.
And I hope your audience reads it too.
So he argues that basically what secular nation states and peoples are trying to do is, you know, you're going to have to do that.
He argues that basically what secular nation states and peoples are trying to do is to anathematize violence when it's done using religion,
which then exonerates the violence that secular nation states do.
So we look at their violence and we see it as irrational and crazy because it's justified by religious lingo and symbolism and ideas.
But meanwhile, we exonerate our own violence.
And so, yes, I do think that you have less religiously inflected, infected violence when it comes from like Judeo, Christian, quote, unquote, West.
I don't agree with that term.
But but that's only because we've moved in a secular direction.
So as society secularized, religious violence goes down.
That's a tautology that that makes all the sense in the world.
It would be like saying, as societies become communist, violent capitalist violence goes down.
Sure.
But the violence doesn't go down.
It just the justification and the rationalization for it changes.
So this is something that I want to get into more.
But let's keep playing if you don't mind.
Islam is this.
Most people who are adamant believers of the faith of Islam are going to take this at face value when they believe in the teachings of their holy book.
In light of many terrorist attacks that have occurred in history and in recent history by those who are radicals within the Islamic faith,
you can understand why someone like Sam Harris wants to hit the nail on the head with this issue.
He points out that in the Quran, there are some extreme examples of hate.
Yep.
So so first I want to make it extremely clear.
I am on the liberal side of the religious spectrum and I absolutely condemn all religious, you know, these Islamist terrorist groups.
And I don't deny that that is a huge problem.
I've dedicated my life to fighting that.
However, what I want to say is I think you're being too charitable to Sam Harris there.
So Sam Harris is a new atheist from the Jewish background.
I think it's actually quite ironic that he is all about condemning religious violence and bigotry.
But you don't have to be a religiously observant person or even a believing person to exhibit religious nationalism.
Or, you know, and the line between religious nationalism and secular nationalism in the case of Israel is very blurry.
So he is a defender of the Zionist state of Israel.
I didn't know that.
In fact, in fact, if you look at the Wisconsin Jewish Chronicle, it's written by a Jewish author.
He says he and this is a glowing review of Sam Harris, by the way.
This author writes, he Sam Harris starts to sound a lot like a Zionist, unquote.
And he absolutely does.
He is because of his back.
This is where I think our backgrounds really matter because he has this Jewish background.
He is beholden to the state of Israel and he wants to defend Israel against the Palestinian what he thinks Palestinian terrorism.
And so I don't think it's that he has this like genuine concern.
He shows this kind of fake concern for Muslims.
No, it's this bigotry that he has towards in favor of the Zionist state, which was founded on settler colonialism.
It was the last colonial project.
Theodore Herzl, who is the founder of Israel, actually wrote letters to different British colonial masters saying that you need to help us in this project because it's a colonial project that you would be interested in.
Israel was founded on ethnic cleansing.
There's a good book by Elon Poppe on that called the Ethnic Cleansing of Palestine.
It's a state that's apartheid and there's a military occupation that has been going on for many decades.
So I think it's very convenient for people to be concerned about the violence that's committed by your rival tribe.
In this case, those crazy Muslims out there, the brown people, but be completely blind to the violence committed by people who have their own beliefs and practices.
And by the way, I signed with you on the issues that are going on in Palestine.
And I think it's like 1930s America between blacks and whites and the way that they're treating Palestinians is just horrible.
So I'm with you actually.
And in fact, I'm literally echoing something that I'm hearing him say that makes sense in light of extreme groups of terrorists, if that makes sense.
People that you would even say I'm as against them as you are.
Like we're both in the same group here.
And so where I'm disagreeing with Sam Harris on is the idea that so what Sam Harris is trying to do is he's trying to defend the exceptionality thesis.
And as an academic, I can't stand exceptionality theses.
Exceptionality theses are those that say a religion, for example, Islam is exceptional in these ways.
Now, exceptional sounds very good, but it's actually Islam is exceptionally violent compared to other religions.
That is what Sam Harris is trying to defend.
And so what he's arguing is that the Quran is somehow radically different than the Bible.
And therefore Muslims have a bigger problem with trying to come to more peaceful interpretations.
And what I'm arguing is, and so he's going to talk about and I think you'll talk about it too.
I just say that I know that the Bible has far more violence.
Now, I haven't read the Hadith.
I haven't gone through, you know, later stuff.
But trust me, if you watch my channel enough, you can find.
I mean, like, it's bad.
I mean, kill every man, woman and child.
Like, you know, I am well aware of the horrific genocidal passages that go on.
And I purposely want people to see this so that they know, do you really want to practice this?
Is this something that you should be following?
And of course, I know I don't.
I haven't heard Sam Harris mention that, but I would imagine he thinks this about the Bible.
Does he know he's he says the Quran is more violence.
And that's just factually incorrect.
And even the violence that's in the Bible, he's excuse he excuses it in when he's talking about Islam.
So he will what he what he does is he basically will say that it's harder for Muslims to interpret their text in peaceful ways than it is for Christians with the Bible.
We're going to get into that.
And what I'm going to say is any time that you.
So when I debated Robert Spencer, I said we should follow the scriptural or the hermeneutical golden rule.
That is, I will interpret your scripture like you want to you want me to interpret yours.
If you are allowed to use certain hermeneutical strategies or interpretive strategies to read your text.
I'm not talking about you obviously Derek, but anybody.
Then you should allow me to use similar strategies to interpret my text.
So we'll get into that and I'm going to counter the idea that Muslims have any more difficulty when it comes to any of these issues.
In fact, I would say they have perhaps less difficulty at least when it comes to the Quran.
But let's keep playing if you don't mind.
Okay.
And tribalism against other groups of non believers.
I mean the very term itself is law means submission.
And in many places in the surahs of the Quran, you can find examples of hate.
And I understand that there are those who are in the faith who would redefine this or make this mean only in self events moments.
However, not all Muslims understand it this way.
And in fact, that's something that Sam and Jordan talk about.
Sam points out that the Quran can't be questioned.
In fact, it's even deeper than a typical person would see the Bible.
Let me take Islam as a specific example.
Islam, mainstream Islam, not just Al-Qaeda style Islam, just any Islam that really is worthy of the name in the year 2021,
is founded on the claim that the Quran is the literal word of God.
Yeah, the question is what does literal mean?
Yeah, but in the minds of most Muslims most of the time, it means that these stanzas were dictated to Muhammad in his cave by the Archangel Gabriel.
And he was commanded to recite and he recited them.
And what we have here, in truth, the claim that the Orthodox claim is even more stringent than the seemingly analogous fundamentalist Christian claim about the Bible.
It is this book and every jot and tittle of it is perfect and cannot be redefined or edited or changed in any way.
And the understanding of that book is what Jordan tries to emphasize.
Can we pause?
Okay, so here Sam Harris is trying to create a false dichotomy between Jews, Christians on the one hand, and those big bad Muslims on the other.
I've heard this argument being raised all the time, that there's this fundamental difference how Muslims view the Quran and how Jews and Christians view their holy text.
And unfortunately some Muslims have reinforced this, I think because they want to push away from the idea that,
they have this idea that Jews and Christians are too wishy-washy with their scripture now, modern ones, so we're like the opposite of that.
Right.
So there is that element of it.
But what Sam Harris said, and again, I've seen some even academics make this claim and it's just like, oh my God, you know, you need to study what you say before you say it.
So it's just fundamentally untrue what Sam Harris has said.
So first of all, whether it's Jews, Christians or Muslims, all of them, if they're believers, take the scripture as the word of God.
Now the question is, what is meant by that, right? What do you mean by the word of God?
Right.
So yes, it's a popular thing to claim that Muslims believe that the Quran is the literal speech of Allah or God.
But that is actually a minority viewpoint in Islamic history and in the Islamic tradition.
Many people do not know that.
Yes, it has been very much popularized in the last few decades so that many average lay Muslims now do think, well, yeah, that's what our religion says.
However, historically that has not been the case and it is still not true amongst like Islamic scholars.
It is the viewpoint of a minority group called the Hanbalis who are the literalists in Islamic history that are now the Wahhabis or the Salafis.
They claim that the Quran is the literal speech of God.
However, that is not the mainstream belief in Islamic history or the tradition.
Even the Asharis, which is like what they teach at al-Azhar, for example, which is like the premier Islamic university.
They are theologians, rationalist theologians who say, we can't say that God has speech.
Speech is composed of letters and words and is a created entity.
God is completely distinct from his creation.
So, historically, most Islamic groups, whether it's the Asharis, the Maturidis, the Moiteslees, the Shias, the Ismailis, the different groups of Shias,
they believed that there was a distinction between speech of God and the Quran.
The text is not the oral.
Even the oral, like the words and letters, is not the speech of God.
So, what the Asharis would do, which is like what we now consider like the mainstream, what they teach in al-Azhar,
they would say is, yes, to the general masses, the uneducated masses, we say that it's the speech of Allah, like the literal speech of Allah.
But in our own intellectual circles and in our own classroom, we know that it's not the speech of Allah because speech is composed of created objects, letters and words and sounds.
So, their conception of speech of God was more like undifferentiated thought and meaning.
And that contains not just the Quran, it's like literally everything.
Wouldn't that mean that the majority, though, that aren't academics would think in the other way, which is what Samu's trying to get at?
Correct. But this is because there's a distinction between the pre-modern and the modern.
In the pre-modern world, you had like this idea of elite religion and the masses are just like following, you know, simple slogans.
So, this idea of it being the word of God is just a slogan, okay?
But actual, the scholars actually believe something different.
And now in modernity, there's like this disconnect because now you have people who are more educated and so this division is kind of breaking down.
Now, the reason why Sam's argument cannot be rehabilitated by what you're saying is that this was also the historical view of Christians.
Even today, if you go to an average Christian and say, is this the word of God, they will say yes.
And they mean that it's literally the word of God.
And there's polling data for that.
Even today, 25% of Americans, or not even Christians, Americans, it's even higher if you go to Christians, say that the Bible is the literal word of God.
So, if that's the case in like 2020, I think that was when the study was done.
I mean, why are you picking on Muslims then?
If in the Western secularized society, still a quarter of Americans are holding that viewpoint.
Why are Muslims so special when it comes to that?
Because they're the other.
That's exactly right.
So, and then also Sam Harris comes from a Jewish background.
So, he's talking about the verbal dictation theory.
The verbal dictation theory is the idea that Archangel Gabriel came down to Muhammad and recited and literally Muhammad is just like a stenographer.
This verbal dictation theory exists in Judaism.
I'll read you a quote by a rabbi who is like a DC rabbi who was like rabbi David Rosenfield.
He says, quote, our tradition teaches us that every word of the Torah is the precise word of God as dictated to Moses.
The Torah is referred to as the Torah of truth.
Thus, our question correctly stated is not if parts of our Torah should not be taken as factual or accurate.
The Torah is entirely true, the precise words of the God of truth.
That's the Jewish Orthodox viewpoints.
Now, when it comes to the Christian viewpoints, there was a history of verbal dictation theory.
So, it's not the case that Christianity is radically different than Islam.
Just like Islam has the verbal dictation theory and other theories as well.
Khalil Andani, who you should have on your show, by the way, to talk about...
He was in the chat earlier.
You should have him on a show because he will tell you about the whole history of Islamic thought.
The verbal dictation theory is only one theory.
Now, yes, you could talk about dominant theories versus non-dominant theories, but to portray Islam in this monolithic fashion, I think, is incorrect.
So, first of all, the verbal dictation theory existed in Christianity,
but even the other theory, which is the Orthodox theory, is the verbal plenary inspiration theory.
What does that mean?
Quote, this is from GodQuestions.org, okay?
The Christian, maybe a fundamentalist site, but the point is...
Quote, the Bible is God's word to humanity.
It was written by human authors, but God prompted and guided them to write what they did.
Every word, word form and word placement found in the Bible's original manuscripts was divinely and intentionally written.
This is the Orthodox view of the church and is known as verbal plenary inspiration.
Now, I ask you, what is the difference?
So, we're talking about ontology here, right?
What difference is ontology if you're taking it in the verbal dictation or the verbal plenary inspiration?
The end of the day is the same, yeah.
It's the exact same thing.
So, the question is really about inerrancy.
Most Orthodox Jews, Christians and Muslims believe that their scriptural texts are inerrant.
Good for teaching.
Therefore, this is the similar situation that Muslims, Jews and Christians face.
So, there's absolutely no difference.
Now, what the real thing which Jordan Peterson is talking about is...
Just because you think something is the literal word of God does not mean that you read the text literally.
You can still say that the text can be read metaphorically.
Because even if you think God is the one uttering it, God uses metaphors, God uses parables, God uses allegories.
So, that's the real question.
And nowhere is there a difference between Jews, Muslims and Christians in the aspect of...
Yeah, no one reads the text completely literalistically.
So, I don't think that there's an actual difference when it comes to Jews, Muslims and Christians in that aspect.
Now, if you ask me personally, I no longer believe...
I don't believe in the Hanbali.
This is the speech of God literally.
I think speech of God is something we can understand as a symbolic or metaphorical meaning in the sense that it's divinely inspired, sure.
But that's different than the Hanbali-Uber Orthodox viewpoint.
So, that's where I wanted to push back against...
Okay.
So, we got it out.
We got it out.
You got to what you wanted to get to.
So, here's my...
Just to throw my little two cents here.
And this is what I was saying earlier.
I really appreciate the presentation.
I mean, seriously, this has been a blast because it makes me want to ask other questions and even ask other academics.
Maybe...
Are there any...
Let me ask you this.
The first things I want to do is explain one thing about this video that we were playing the clip from about Jordan Peterson and Sam Harris.
I feel like there's this uphill battle fundamentally in the way that these texts have been interpreted and the way they're understood.
And I even said in that video, I wish everybody was reading these texts like Jordan Peterson reads them.
He's like, it's this inner struggle and there's always this tyrant in life and the Exodus, the way he understands this.
I do, however, think...
I want to use the word dishonest.
I do want to use that being absolutely honest with you of what I think is going on because when he gets asked questions about the Bible,
he gets super deflected when Mohammedi Jav was asking him, you know, like, hey, you sound post-modern when you're discussing these things, but you're not.
And so he'll go like, well, the Exodus...
Okay, if there was a camera there, maybe the camera did pick it up, but it's true than it's true than it's true.
It's the metatruth of the truth.
And I'm like, okay, just say, look, historically speaking, this maybe didn't happen the way it's documented.
But I find that there's intrinsically a value in the text and the story is a common one we all as humans endure,
and therefore we can learn the lesson that is truth in the story.
Don't try to like tiptoe around, is this history?
Is this not?
Just call it what it is.
This is a deep story that you can learn from.
And I think that this is a problem we find with the text is at least the interpretation of text.
And you have an uphill battle, I think.
And that's the difficulty is that we see this.
And I think Sam Harris is saying fundamentalist often, and I guess he's generalizing here, but people who are radical in their interpretation,
they see this face value and if it's ugly, they can draw that conclusion and go, hey, looks pretty clear to me on what this is saying.
And you have more esoteric interpretations battling against what looks like face value interpretations, which are bad, in my opinion.
Do I wish the esoteric were the case?
Yeah.
And I think this is exactly what the philosophers did when they found Zeus raped a woman to impregnate her.
Later they go, God's can't literally have sex with people because their philosophy evolved, where God's become less mixing fluids with humans and things like that.
So now they go, that's a metaphor or an allegory.
Zeus didn't literally have sex with her.
It meant this or it meant that.
And I hope humans come up with more interpretations like that for the sake of our civilization and to progress closer to each other.
I hope that makes sense.
What I said, and feel free to comment.
Yeah, thanks so much, Derek.
So I hope we saw some time because there are two things to that.
Number one is I do want to play a little bit more of that video because then you get into a couple of the verses and Sam brings these up as well.
And so what he's trying to argue is that, look, the fundamentalists and the extremists, they have an advantage because they can just read it literally.
Whereas the other people who are quote unquote reformists have to do textual acrobatics in order to reinterpret the text.
And I think that's what you're getting at.
So I want to see if that's actually true or not.
So I wanted to show the verses that you're showing and then show you something.
But then there's a second point.
So when it comes to jihad and warfare, I actually am of the viewpoint that a literal reading of the text does.
It cannot support the extremist interpretation.
And that's why even the medieval exigites who are trying to justify imperial warfare had to argue for abrogation and use heavy handed exegetical tools to move the text away from its literal meaning.
And this is actually what my article that hopefully will come out soon is arguing.
Can I tell you my personal thoughts from this, this far in this episode?
Yeah, I would not be shocked at all if you're right about this.
And this is the difficulty. See, this is the thing I'm trying to get at about.
I've learned a lot even since making that video about Jordan Peterson and now because I've been diving deeper into the text, reading more on Islam.
And it's hard for me to balance.
I'm doing Hebrew Bible and do a New Testament.
I'm trying to do this, but you're doing great.
I want to say you're probably correct in what is being seen in the Quran only the difficult when it comes to violence, when it comes to war and violence.
Right.
So I do agree with you when it comes to, well, I agree partially with you.
So do I think believers need to reconsider whether the these scriptures are telling them literal history and science?
Yes, absolutely.
I guess the difference, but I was hoping that we could have that conversation after we wrap up this.
So can you replay?
Can you just play?
And we're going to take a look at those because right now you have a lot of skeptical viewers probably in the YouTube.
They don't know what I'm aware of on this either.
So yeah.
Well, they, well, they may be like, oh, yeah, well, he's showing all the peaceful verses.
Let's look at the real problematic verses.
So let's take a look at the ones that you and Sam bring up and then let's see what we see.
So if you don't mind playing.
Yep.
Well, what if the text is true, but the believers who say that they understand it, their understanding is flawed.
This gets into the psychology of Jordan.
Where Jordan, I feel is being an apologist for these holy books.
In many ways, Jordan has an interpretation that I, as I've been studying this for a long time with.
I want to clarify not, not Quran, but definitely biblical stuff.
Anyway, that's really my drive is the way he interprets the Bible.
It just drives me nuts sometimes.
But okay, real academics who are experts in this field don't draw these interpretations.
And when they do, it's kind of odd, like John Dominic Crossen, when he interprets Jesus through this social reformer perspective.
And if Jesus was an apocalyptic prophet, he might have got the timing wrong, but was his message wrong?
See, Dale Allison, Jr.
He's pointed out in our Jesus course that we have coming up the quest for the historical Jesus that John Dominic Crossen will interpret biblical
narratives and Jesus through the lens of his Irish and Ireland politics, the issues he grew up with in his own experience.
Is Jordan doing something the same?
It sounds and looks like this is what's happening.
See, Jordan seems to be influenced by people like Joseph Campbell, the hero with a thousand faces and the way that he interprets the biblical stories
through that lens is quite illuminating.
Man, do I wish the world interpreted these stories the way that Jordan is interpreting them.
However, that isn't the case.
And is Jordan just this lonely voice out there trying to understand the biblical story in a way that 99.9% of its adherents don't follow or interpret it that way?
Let me give you an example from the Quran.
Sura 3 151.
We shall cast terror into the hearts of those who disbelieve on non-Muslims.
Now there's an interpretation right there, right?
I pause it for you.
Keep playing.
Keep playing.
Oh, keep playing.
Yeah, yeah.
Just finish the commercial, Leah.
Oh, okay.
You know what?
You can pause.
You can pause.
I'm just going to get through that.
You don't have YouTube without ads?
Come on, Derek.
No, man.
I'm behind the time.
Let's get the Patreon.
Let's give the Patreon.
Come on, donate.
Come on.
Okay.
Did you want to pause it there?
Yeah, we could pause right there because that already, I think you've picked up what I'm going to say.
But the division between Muslims and non-Muslims did not exist in the time, in that rigid fashion, did not exist in the time that the Quran was revealed or uttered by the prophet, whatever you want to say.
This is a division that comes later and then is back projected onto the text.
How do we know that?
Is this just some liberal hippie-dippy thing that I'm saying?
Actually, even the more skeptical like Steven Shoemaker has argued this.
Now, he uses it in a different direction.
He uses it in the sense of almost, and we, some Muslims feel that it's kind of like trying to undermine the entire Islamic tradition.
But I actually think that this is one of those interesting cases where if a Muslim raises this point for a quote-unquote liberal end, then they're accused of apologia.
And it's perfectly okay to use the same argument when you're trying to undercut the entire tradition.
I think this is kind of a double standard.
So if we look at the text itself, it's quite clear that the term infidel or kafir is not synonymous with Rehr Muslim or non-Muslim.
It can't be.
And I'll show you how.
So I'm going to share my slide again, screen if it's okay.
Let me know when it's ready.
I click present.
Is that right?
It's already out.
Your screen is already being shared.
You just got.
Okay.
Okay.
So there you go.
Can you see it now?
Yes.
Okay.
So here is a verse in the Quran.
Verily those who believe and those who are Jews and the Christians and the Sabeans, anyone who believes in God on the last day and works righteousness shall have their reward with their Lord.
No fear shall come upon them, nor shall they grieve.
This is talking about salvation in the next life.
This verbiage is always used in the Quran for talking about the next life.
Now, are you telling me that the Quran is saying that these people are kafirs or infidels if they're going to go to paradise?
So what about it's repeated here in the last surah that is said to be revealed.
It's repeated again.
The Jews, the Christians, the Sabeans, anyone who believes in God on the last day and works righteousness, no fear shall come upon them, nor shall they grieve.
So we already know that the word kafir does not mean non-Muslim.
Yes, the later tradition, and you can stop the share if you want, the later tradition does portray it that way, just like the church will have the argument of there's no salvation outside of the church or outside of Jesus Christ.
But this is the later tradition that goes in this religious, religious exclusivist direction.
The Quran itself is at a time in which the boundaries between confessional identities is fuzzy.
That's what Michael Penn talked about when he came on your show.
That's what Steven Shoemaker talked about.
And so we need to understand that, that it's not saying all non-Muslims.
Who is it really talking about?
So do you mind if you play the rest of the verse that you described?
Surah 9-5.
Then kill the disbeliever.
Oh, sorry.
Right before that.
Yeah, right there.
Terror into the hearts of those.
I'll just pause it so they could see.
Yeah, you want to just read it?
Yeah, we will cast horror into the hearts of the disbelievers for associating false gods with Allah, a practice he was never authorized.
The fire will be their home.
What an evil place for the wrongdoers to stay.
Okay, so now, so first we've agreed that it's not referring to all non-Muslims.
So who is it really referring to?
It's not referring, by the way, to all polytheists or like it's not talking about Hindus here.
Let's see who it's referring to.
So let's in that same surah.
So I'm going to share my screen again.
Okay.
This isn't the same surah.
This is just a few verses before.
It says, it says, they are not all alike among the people of the book, the Jews and the Christians.
There's an upright community who recite God's signs in the watches of the night, et cetera, et cetera.
They believe in God in the last day and join light and forbid wrong.
And they are among the righteous.
So God is saying that those people are going to be saved.
Then it says, as for those who disbelieve.
This is who the Quran is forbidding the believers because they're in a time of existential threat and they're worried about being wiped off the face of the earth.
This is the time where the Quran is saying, hey, don't take those disbelievers and it's not even disbelief.
It's rejection, active rejection.
They are the rejecters.
They wish you to suffer.
Hatred appeared from their mouth.
So these are just not neutral non-Muslims or non-believers.
If evil befalls you, they rejoice in it.
Even then the Quran is saying, but if you are patient and reverent, their plot will not harm you in the least.
So these are people who are plotting against the believers.
This is the surrounding context of the verse that you quoted in the video.
Remember when two companies among you were on the verge of losing heart through God, though God was their protector.
So this was at the height of a battle between the pagans who were persecuting the believers and the believers.
And there was a fear that they were going to be wiped off the face of the earth.
The Quran goes on.
It's reassuring the believers here.
God helped you at the battle of Bother when you were lowly.
So reverence God.
So it's saying, have patience, be reverent, and your word will support you with 5,000 angels.
When is this kind of verse being revealed?
We know that when God is promising 5,000 angels, it's when the believers are at the weakest point.
They're worried about being...
There's a verse in the Quran that talks about their eyes rolled behind their heads out of here.
Because the armies of the pagans were marting upon them.
This is at their weakest point that the Quran is trying to encourage them.
Don't worry. Don't be a coward on the battlefield.
We'll reinforce you with our divine angels.
Do not falter and do not grieve, for you will be ascendant if you are believers.
If a wound afflicts you.
So we now know that it's not talking about any disbelievers.
It's talking about the ones who afflict the wound.
And a like wound.
It's reminding them that, look, if you believers are wounded, don't worry.
You afflicted a wound on them in battle of Bother.
They had been victorious.
And God is...
Don't worry.
Victory is handed out in turns by God.
So here the Quran is saying, this is the context of what you cited.
You did indeed long for death before you met it.
Now you have seen it looking on.
So the Quran is saying, be ready for martyrdom.
What's the context?
This is an existential threat.
Here they even had thought that maybe Muhammad had been killed.
And so they were turning their back on the battlefield.
So the Quran says, previous messengers were also killed.
So don't turn back on your heels.
Whosoever turned back on his heels will not harm God in the least.
And it's talking about people faltering on the battlefield because they're, they're full of fear.
So here's again, talking about being cowardly on the battlefield and saying,
don't worry, God is your master.
He is the best of the helpers.
So this verse, we shall cast terror in the hearts of those who reject is talking about those people who are marching on the believers.
And it's saying to the believers, don't lose faith because God will come with his angels to save you
and cast terror into the hearts of those who are attacking you.
Now you might say this is very militaristic, whatever, that's fine.
But it's a big stretch to take this verse, wrench it out of its context and say,
and just deploy it out of context like, like that.
So, and what Patricia Corona says is, yes, you might call this belligerent and militaristic,
but it doesn't change the law of warfare.
It doesn't allow you to aggress against your enemy.
It's just saying that on the battlefield, don't worry, God will cause your enemy to be fearful.
It'll cast terror in their hearts.
It's not talking about going and doing terrorism just because it uses the word terror here.
This is something different.
And so it's saying, do not disbelieve and be cowards on the battlefield.
And then the follow up verse says, and truly among the people of the book are those who believe in God, et cetera.
So it's not talking about Olaan Muslims.
So what I'm trying to say is, yes, I do think that that verse was taken out of context.
And the next verse that you cite, we're going to see that even more.
So if you want to play that.
Yeah, absolutely.
Let me get that up here.
Those who disbelieve on non-Muslims.
Surah nine five.
Then I'll read it here.
Yeah.
Sacred months have passed.
We talked about the sacred months earlier.
Slay the idolaters wherever you find them and take them captive and besiege them.
And by the way, in your gloss, when you said this on the video, you said slay the idolaters.
That is all non-Muslims wherever you find them.
Right.
Right.
So so we again agree that that's not correct here.
Right.
Right.
Apply the same method here.
Yes, exactly.
And besiege them and prepare for them each ambush.
But they repent.
But then you didn't you didn't read the last sentence.
So so that's all you read when you read it.
Yes.
Yes.
Okay.
Yeah.
That's important.
That's important.
Okay.
So now let's look at the context of, by the way, this verse is called the verse of the sword.
So it is one of the most militaristic passages.
So let's now look at the most militaristic passage.
Okay.
So let's play my screen.
So this is what it's often showed as kill the idolaters wherever you find them and siege
them, besiege them and lie and wait for them in every place of ambush dot, dot, dot.
Actually, I think I remember Sam Harris quoting this verse and saying, how can you possibly
contextualize or reinterpret this verse?
It's so crystal clear.
Okay.
Let's take a look, Sam.
This is a repudiation from God and his messenger to those idolaters with whom you made a treaty
and they violated it.
The verse, the, this is the verse that comes right before it.
It's saying this does not apply except those idolaters with whom you made a treaty, a peace
treaty with and thereafter commit no breach against you nor support anyone against you.
So fulfill the treaty with them for its duration.
Verily, God loves those who keep their duty.
That is, who keep the peace treaty.
So then it's allowing you to, first of all, it's saying lethal force.
That's a better translation.
Use lethal force against the idolaters wherever you find them.
And this is not saying to just go out and kill them anywhere in the world.
It's actually, and we'll see this in another passage.
It's actually answering the question, the specific legal question of, is it allowed to
fight in the sacred space around the Kaaba, the mosque?
All right, we'll see that very clearly soon.
And then the Quran says, but if they repent and establish prayer and give alms to the poor,
then let them go on their way.
Truly God is forgiving, merciful.
So again, the Quran is leaving the door open for reconciliation.
And what's interesting is here, it doesn't say anything about converting to Islam.
The prayer and the alms were things that people had been doing for a long time.
These were pre Islamic practices.
So the Quran is just saying, look, if you just stop engaging in your hostilities,
go back to piety, you will be let go on your way.
It doesn't say that you have to convert to Islam.
And if any of the idolaters seek safety with you, this is the very next verse,
grant him safety until he hears the word of God,
then convey to him his place, convey him to his place of safety.
This is because they are a people who know not.
So here the Quran is not saying go and force them to turn Muslim.
It's saying that just preach to them the word of God.
If they accept it, they accept it.
If they don't, they reject it.
Here you have the idea of free will and freedom of belief.
The Quran says, how could there be a treaty with God and his messenger for such idolaters?
But as for those whom you made a treaty with at the sacred mosque,
as long as they remain true to you, be true to them.
That is, if they don't violate the treaty, you don't violate it.
God loves those who keep their duty.
How?
When if they were to get the upper hand over you,
they would not respect any tie with you of kinship or of treaty.
They barred others from its path, how evil their actions are.
They are the ones who are committing aggression.
And if they break their oaths after their treaty with you and attack your religion,
then fight the leaders of unbelief.
Surely their oaths are nothing so that they may desist.
This is from what?
Desist from warring against you.
Will you not fight a folk who broke their solemn pledges
and proposed to drive the messenger out and did attack you first?
So this is not responding.
This is not saying to go and aggress against unbelievers.
It's responding to aggression.
Why?
Because we agreed that the principle, the chronic principles of war and peace
don't allow you to aggress.
They only allow you to respond to aggression.
That is the entire passage.
Now, let me ask you this.
Sure, it's possible that you take that verse in isolation and you had to cut it up.
You couldn't read.
We couldn't read the last part and then say, look, how, how can Muslims understand this?
Can you at least understand that?
Yeah, I think there is a way Muslims can understand this.
Absolutely.
No, no, no, no.
So this is the hard part.
I love everything that you said.
Yeah, I really, really do.
Because it puts it in the historical context.
It tells you almost like what really was happening.
Like you're kind of living a picture in your mind, a movie, so to speak,
and what was going on between these people.
The problem, and I'm with you, by the way, on your interpretation here,
I'm going to grant it.
I mean, I'm no expert here, but I'm a big guy on context.
Can I ask you this?
So can I ask you this?
So I'm going to imagine that you're like Patricia Krona.
So you initially, because you're a critical scholar, you're like,
I don't think that this apologetic interpretations are very convincing.
But now you had like a Muslim academic show you.
Are you like Krona?
Did you get convinced that, hey, you know what?
It seems pretty convincing what you're saying.
Yeah, no, I am.
Look, I am convinced that what you're doing is actually addressing the context
of the historical what happened.
This is the difficult problem.
And it's not your, it's not a problem of what you're saying.
The problem is this, this is living scripture to people.
And so what's happening is they're having to say, how does this apply to me?
And this is the headache I find that I'm having the same uphill battle you're having.
You're wanting to educate people on the reality.
What was this saying when it was saying this?
I'm with you.
Let's do that.
Let's find out what was being said.
People are interpreting this and they're trying to go, well, this might be all non-Muslims.
In the context, it doesn't appear that way.
It seems like whatever was going on with Muhammad and his early followers at this moment,
between a peace treaty that was going on and they broke this treaty in some way,
between two clans, however you want to put it, might be the Medinans.
I don't know the historical all the way, but it sounds like this is something that happened at some point in time.
And this does not repeat itself, so to speak, or it shouldn't be applied at all times in history from here to all eternity.
And I find that to be the difficulty that believers say this is living text.
And so they find a way, even if they got to take it out of its context and apply it to their situation.
You know what?
The guy down the street screwed me over.
We had an agreement here.
And what if they're interpreting it through some...
So you can, I think, rightfully interpret this as, yeah, Muslims today, if they have a treaty and somebody breaks it, you can fight back.
But it doesn't justify going and aggressing and conquering other countries and converting them to Islam.
So I'm agreeing with you.
And then I'm also agreeing with you that the devil can quote scripture and it's easy to take verses out of context.
And believers do do that.
And in fact, we know that the medieval tradition also militarized the text as well.
So I'm agreeing with all of that.
But I'm not agreeing with the idea that the text is inherently violence, that it takes quote unquote textual acrobatics to get it to a more sensible direction.
I think you and me are both in agreement on that.
So there isn't a disagreement here, I think.
And I mean, this is so I'm taking you and what we're reading here and it looks exactly like you're describing it makes sense to me.
And I didn't pick the passages, right?
So I picked the passage that you showed.
I also like your method.
I just want to give an overall comminue on the method you're using because the different methods I've already been looking at is like they're, they're slotting in abrogated text in front of others, which means to put simply for our audience who are critical.
Really what this is, what this whole this text in front of that text to me, they're trying to argue is there are contradictions.
And the reason why they're wanting to say this is abrogates that is because it contradicts their narrative on how they're trying to paint this methodology.
If you take what you're doing in the approach you're taking, Occam's razor, right, to me is like, this seems a bit simpler to explain.
And it's better to say people ran with this and really did some bullshit, if I can use the term, over time by reapplying and reinterpreting and trying to find a way where this makes sense in their current context down the road.
In their imperial context, exactly right.
And so what I would say is this, yes, a text can have contradictions, we can't a priori rule that out, even with the Quran, we cannot rule that out as modern critical scholars.
However, before we jump to saying that there's a contradiction, we should at least try to read the text and see, is it really a blatant contradiction.
And that's where I'm critical of Professor Firestone's book. And I'm going to show you a slide where I show why I so the article that I just submitted is arguing against the idea that the doctrine of abrogation came about because of the contradictions inside the Quranic text.
And that's what I was seeing, right, it's an alternative method that can be it seems to be used in academia, but your method doesn't require what you're trying to point out doesn't require you needing to come up with abrogation as an explanation for these issues is what
So what I'm what I argue in my article is that abrogation was not a tool to rescue the Quran from incoherence or contradiction.
Abrogation was a way to reconcile the Quran with the then present law and doctrine in the medieval time, which as Joseph Schacht argues it evolved initially independent of the Quran.
And Nikolai Sinai has written an excellent article on how actually the Quran was not part of early Islamic law, it was only integrated into it at a later point in time.
There's an excellent article that he's written on that now that I've included in my own article. But before we go any further I do want to one last passage that's it.
So I need to play it or no you're not you're not you're not to play it because it's from Sam Harris's book. So this is I'm sharing the screen.
So this is Sam Harris, I took a picture of the pages. I did this because I did this with Robert Spencer as well. Robert Spencer, I think maliciously edited the text.
I don't know if Sam Harris did the same or if he was drunk when he did it. I'm not sure. But this is extremely sloppy. And I can't understand how anyone could do this.
So this is where he quotes Surah 2, 190 to 193. I typed out what he put right here. This is the actual verses that he claims that he quoted.
Fight in God's way against those who fight you but do not aggress. Verily, God does not love the aggressors. This entire part was deleted by Harris.
Fight kill, which is actually use lethal force. That's a better idiomatic translation, wherever you encounter them and drive them out wherever they drove you out for religious persecution is worse than killing.
But do not fight them near the sacred mosque unless they fight you there. If they do fight kill you, you fight kill them. Really, this is use lethal force. That is what such rejectors deserve.
What Sam did was he deleted that part that I said unless they fight you there. And then he translated the word persecution as idolatry.
That is an incorrect translation. That was a gloss that later medieval exegetes said, well, we can consider idolatry as a type of persecution. It's a type of fitna.
So they glossed it. But it's a very different thing to say I'm quoting the Quran and I'm quoting a commentary. I mean, this is just, I mean, intellectual fraud, to be honest.
But if they cease fighting you, then God is most forgiving and merciful. Fight them until there is no religious persecution and your religion is for God.
But if they cease fighting you, then there is no enmity except towards oppressors. Now, what does Sam Harris translate that as?
Fight against them until idolatry is no more and God's religion reigns supreme. This is not in the text at all.
And I think I actually tried to Google and I said, like, where the heck did he get this translation from? I think he got it from an Internet forum.
How could you write a book that you're going to mass publish and you don't even bother to check the actual text?
Now, that's either extreme sloppiness or intellectual dishonesty. Take whatever pick you want.
But this passage, so even where it says fight them wherever you encounter them and drive them out, wherever you drive them out, it's talking about fighting in the sacred space.
But do not fight them near the sacred mosque in the sacred space unless they fight you there.
So people take this out of context to make it look like it's saying fight non-Muslims wherever you find them. The verse itself is saying not to do that.
Now question I'd like to ask you is this, do Muslims in history take this stuff out of context and apply it to their...
I mean, I know you say that medieval exegetes and stuff, but I guess that would be a great question.
Because when I was reading Reuben, as he describes it, like, sliding in little...
I would almost equate it to when I read the Gospel of Thomas, right?
There's sayings and sometimes these sayings honestly have nothing to do with the next saying.
Like, you're like, well, this one came in out of nowhere.
The way they're reading the Quran, like they're cherry picking little words here and there and then they're applying it to their circumstance.
Did Muslims in history do that?
Absolutely they did that. That's what the medieval exegetes did. They were living in an imperial time and so that's what they did.
Now Sam is... So what Sam did is he got this idea of glossing persecution with idolatry and religion is for God.
Your religion is for God with God's religion reign supreme.
He's glossing it. I don't think he actually looked at the classical commentaries.
He doesn't have the language skills for that, but he got it from like a forum where somebody did that.
But it's, again, his argument, Sam's argument is not that, look, the medieval exegetes interpreted it away in this direction.
But his argument is that the literal text says that. Those are two radically different things.
Because when I debate with Muslims, I tell them the medieval exegetes got it wrong.
That's a much easier argument to make than if I'm doing textual acrobatics with the text itself, which they consider to be divine and holy.
So the entire argument that Sam is making is about inherent violent nature of the text. That's what I'm contesting.
I'm not contesting that Muslims have historically militarized the text. Heck, I wrote an article on it. I just submitted it.
So I actually look at these passages in depth and I don't see how, like if you...
Okay, so I put some insertions here because I wrote about like deleted by Harris, et cetera, but this is a coherent passage overall.
It's saying, look, if they fight you, you fight them, but don't aggress against them.
If they stop fighting, you stop fighting and fight them until there's no religious persecution.
And by the way, there's another passage where we have an explanation of what fitna means.
Religious persecution is greater than killing. And then the very next passage explains what fitna is.
And they will not cease to fight you until they make you renounce your religion if they are able.
So the previous passage was saying, fight them until they stop persecuting you and trying to get you to renounce your religion.
And then this verse is kind of rhetorically saying, well, they're never going to stop fighting you until you then make you renounce your religion.
So it's like almost a definition of the word fitna is given in the passage itself.
And this is where I criticized Professor Firestone.
By the way, maybe I shouldn't have put this, my advisor told me that this is probably too harsh towards Professor Firestone, my verbiage.
But I thought it was kind of witty the way I wrote it, but Firestone is a gentleman, so hopefully he'll take it on the chin.
But I said, this is part of my dissertation. I write Firestone's analysis, meanwhile, seems to be confused.
Instead of merely accepting the obvious meaning and context of the passage, the one that I just showed you,
he delves deeply into the views of the classical exegetes, and the result is that he drowns in them.
That is the part that my advisor said probably don't say, but I thought it was kind of eloquent the way I said it.
Okay.
So he concludes that verse 2190 and 2191 should be split up because according to him, quote, this is from his passage.
And I think you read this, so do you mind reading this part?
I'm going to have to squint up here.
So the reason, yeah, can you read that?
Yeah, the reason for the adjacent location of the two verses is topical.
Neither modern nor traditional scholars associate them together.
In fact, it seems as if their relational placement by the collectors of the Quran was designed in order to make perfectly clear
that the limitations suggested in 2190 were abrogated by the nearly limitless proclamation of 2191.
This is what Firestone claims.
Here, Firestone seems to be under the impression that the collectors of the Quran and the classical jurists
who argued for abrogation of the jihad verses were one and the same.
Yet the classical doctrine was expounded after the text of the Quran had already been compiled and stabilized,
which is exactly why the doctrine of abrogation needed to be invoked in the first place.
The classical scholars disconnected verse 2190 and 2191 in order to justify their doctrine,
so this separation cannot simply be accepted as fact.
Firestone asks,
If 2190 were revealed in relation to entering the sacred precinct, why would it not be more specific about fighting in that location?
I write, not only does he answer his own question,
the following verse does indeed provide that information,
but so too does the preceding verse make it clear that the passage is about the sacred precinct,
as it discusses the pilgrimage, verse 2181.
How then is verse 2190 justifiably wrenched out of its context?
Clearly, from verse 2181 to 2194, and in fact, much after that, the passage discusses the pilgrimage.
Nor is Firestone's claim of the, quote,
nearly limitless proclamation of 2191 justifiable.
Firstly, encounter them is, kill them wherever you encounter them,
likely meant wherever they attack you.
The second part, drive them out where they drove you out,
clearly hearkens to the ethic of proportionality discussed earlier.
Plus, the verse goes on, quote,
unless they fight you, unquote.
This is in 2191, which Firestone calls a limitless proclamation of war.
This is hardly a limitless proclamation of war.
The very next two verses, even more strongly militant,
militate against this idea, quote,
but if they stop, then God is most forgiving, most merciful.
Fight them until there is no more persecution.
If they seize hostilities, there can be no further hostility,
except against aggressors, unquote.
And so that is my critique of Professor Firestone.
And finally, I want to show you just this one last thing.
This is, so your question is, how did the medieval exegetes take it?
This is how they defended it.
So this is an 11th century scholar who argues for this evolutionary theory of warfare.
So he says, know that the command for warring descended in degrees.
So the first stage was pacifism.
The second stage was defensive war.
The third phase was offensive war,
but still you have to follow certain rules.
And then the fourth stage was unlimited aggression against all unbelievers.
The crazy thing is that he's claiming that verse 2190
abrogates the verse that comes right after it, 2191.
Not only that, so do you see the verses that are in red?
So the very next verse restricts it to defensive warfare.
And he actually uses it to justify stage two.
And he's claiming that only a part of verse 2190
allows for the unlimited warfare.
But if we actually read the entire passage that he quotes, 2190,
it actually does not allow, like this is 2190,
fight in God's way against those who fight you, but do not aggress.
Verily, God does not love the aggressors.
That's verse 2190, but he puts it in the last stage, stage four.
You see how this is not very convincing.
And he has four stages, which is, so no, I am with you.
In fact, this is very interesting.
I like to consider, right?
Yeah, I'm going to pull you and me back up here on the top.
And then I like to consider various scholarly opinions,
but I can see what you mean taking your approach.
I can see what you mean by someone getting drowned
in medieval scholarship.
Like if I was reading them, maybe I've read so much of them
that I'm like, I just never crossed my mind to think,
what if it is just a consistent context trying to explain
some situation in a holy area where they're treating you wrong
or you're just trying to go and worship,
and there's this issue back forth.
I do want to ask you this.
Are there any historical scholars in Islam
that read it the way that you've read it?
And I'm not talking about contemporary, but in antiquity.
Is there any evidence that they've read this as a consistent narrative?
So I initially said not really in my research,
but that has to be caveated in two ways.
Almost all of the readings that I give of these verses
were admitted by the classical scholars.
So I'm actually using their own work where they say,
this verse can be interpreted in one of two ways.
And then they say, this is the first way.
This is the second way.
And then they say, actually, their real issue was
they couldn't understand why the Quran forgives non-believers
because they actually said that God doesn't forgive shirk and kufr.
Shirk is polytheism or idolatry or associationism,
and kufr is unbelief or disbelief.
And those Quranic verses that we just read
say that, hey, if they stop fighting you, then God is most forgiving.
But if they stop fighting you, they're still on kufr and shirk.
That is theologically problematic.
So what the classical exegetes would say
is this would create a theological problem for us.
So it actually means if they stop their kufr and their shirk,
not if they stop fighting.
And then they glossed fitna to mean idolatry and shirk.
So they acknowledge my reading.
I'm getting it.
I show that in my article that I publish.
But then the vast majority of them
say it can't be taken in that way
because it creates these theological problems for us.
And so that's why they take the other reading.
And that's where my article I think will be interesting.
Now, after I read so many classical commentaries,
I kind of got disenchanted and I said,
man, they all took it in this way.
They acknowledge, but then they go in a different direction.
And by the way, they're not each independently reading the text.
That's what I want to push back against.
The classical exegesis is done by exactly how those orientals
used to read it.
You would read the previous commentaries
and then you'd build upon them.
So it was just reinforcement after reinforcement.
Like you would read previous commentaries
and as the weight of the tradition would come on you.
So you couldn't diverge from the tradition.
This is exactly how it was when I read
Reformed Calvinistic traditions from John Calvin
and then going down through history.
Great point.
I try to bring it to my world so that I can better
understand.
But this is, I think this is really wonderful.
The way that you're approaching this is historically
trying to give it its context and recognizing
how people have understood this, but calling them out.
If you see that they're wrong, calling them out.
And look, I don't care if you don't believe,
which I don't, I'm saying this to the audience.
I hope that anyone who's listening could commend this
in its proper context and recognizing like,
hey, this is a much better trajectory, right?
If we're going to approach this, it's a better trajectory
because a lot of people are taking this four step model
that you're, you know, that later he's like,
no, you know what?
It's time to conquer the world.
It's time to take on everybody and kill anyone
who doesn't accept our views.
There are extremists that kind of have this idea.
So can I, can I just push back on one or not push back
but add some nuance to this, which is,
so even though I got disheartened,
but when I read the classical and the pre-modern scholars,
I have been informed by my, by Juan Cole himself,
who said there is this West African tradition
that read the Quran differently in a pacifistic way,
or at least a nonviolent, non militaristic way.
And so I'm just starting to read that stuff,
but that's, so that is pre-modern.
So they don't have this kind of,
now they were operating in an environment where
there were more non-Muslims.
So you can see how your context matters.
If you live in an empire in which the majority is Muslim,
in which the Muslims are the power,
you're going to read the text in a certain way.
Whereas if you're in a different context
where you're not in power, you're not the majority,
then you'll see the texts also in a different way.
So, so, so I wouldn't say that the tradition is unanimous.
I would say that the major commentaries
seem to all go in the same direction,
but they're all like drawing off of each other.
So that's one.
Number two point that I want to make is that
the Christian medieval tradition is the same way.
So many people don't know that.
If you want to learn more about that,
you can watch the debate that I had with Robert Spencer.
The modern Christian viewpoints are very different
than the medieval ones, and people don't know that.
So that's, that's the second point.
I would like to mention that you mentioned the medieval
and it's like we do have crusades
and we have these issues going on.
It's almost like I've heard some people who are Islamophobic
or not Islamophobic, but anti-Semites
that are literally trying to cherry pick Zohar
or something from Jewish commentaries where they hate Gentiles.
And when you find out in the historical context,
using what methods you and me both love to do,
you find out that the way that they're being persecuted
from Gentiles and abused and literally taken advantage of
and like hated by Gentiles,
you got to wonder why they hate Gentiles in the writing.
It's the environment that they're dealing with.
So if you're dealing with medieval commentators,
they're dealing with this back and forth between Christian,
you know, the Christian world and their world and this clash.
So it's context.
It's really historical context.
Again, your methodology that you point out at the beginning,
we should be using.
And I encourage people to use it more.
And the third point I want to make is that
the extremists today, the terrorists,
it's not that they're reading these texts
and then misunderstanding them and then going out and fighting.
Rather, if you read Osama bin Laden,
which I encourage people to read actually,
this is a book that is all of his statements.
They're put in a book and you can read what he says.
He literally says,
because he's arguing with more conservative Islamic scholars
who are saying, look,
you can't target and kill women and children.
That's prohibited by the tradition.
So by the way, the medieval tradition,
yes, it allowed for expansionary warfare,
but the medieval exigites and jurists were very good when it came to
what's called just in Bello or conduct in war.
And when it came to conduct in war,
they never allowed you to target and kill women and children.
There are just too many explicit texts that forbid that.
And these terrorists,
they target and kill civilians like Osama bin Laden, ISIS.
So Osama bin Laden actually argues back and says,
yeah, but we don't follow those rules
because we have exigent times
and they're targeting and killing our civilians
so we can target and kill their civilians.
So his argument is not like a religious argument that's grounded in text.
It's an argument of political need and necessity
and anyone can make that argument.
So it's not the case that the text is causing this violence.
And that's where I pushed back against Robert Spencer and Sam Harris.
And I don't think we have time to get into it.
So for the people who want to hear about that,
just watch the last third of my debate with Robert Spencer
in which I talk about the violence of the secular nation state.
And also do yourself a favor and read the book,
The Myth of Religious Violence,
because I think that's very important.
I think most people underestimate the level of violence that's done
in the name of secular ideologies,
whether that's liberalism or capitalism, et cetera.
And then the last thing, I know we're running,
maybe if we're going to go to the three-hour mark,
if you wanted to talk about the Jordan Peterson aspect,
because I did want to give a defense of Jordan Peterson.
I mean, if you want to go ahead and then I'll get to Q&A,
that way we can try.
Oh, quite Q&A.
Okay. Yeah.
So I'll just say a couple of sentences on Jordan Peterson,
then we'll take the Q&A.
I would say that I side with the Jordan Peterson side.
In fact, one person called me the Muslim Jordan Peterson.
The difference I think is that I actually,
I try to talk in a more clear and understandable way to the,
and not say just kind of word salad gibberish.
But I think Jordan's inclination is correct.
You said that he psychologizes texts to rescue them from like being false
or in that sense.
I would say that that is the right method,
except that instead of psychologizing the text,
look Jordan is not a scholar trained in religion.
I think a lot of the texts that we just take as myth,
and we say myth is like something false and silly and stupid and superstitious.
I like to use the word theologizing narrative.
So a lot of the texts that I think I share your viewpoint that we should not
take them as literal history or science,
but they're not just false and untrue in that sense.
They have a deeper metaphorical truth to them.
And what they're actually doing is they're engaging in theologizing.
And so if you understand what texts are doing,
as opposed to what they're saying,
I think a lot of the texts that we might poo poo,
they actually have some value,
especially when you understand their context and what they were trying to do.
That's what I would say in defense of Jordan Peterson.
But that might be another conversation.
That is, that's a whole nother conversation.
Because just reading the New Testament,
these authors literally believed these stories,
literally have that type of stuff.
And all I'm trying to get at it,
and I get what you're saying,
and I read these texts and find meaning in many of them.
So it's not like there isn't meaning.
And I do know what you mean.
There's that issue.
So I side with you on the idea that myth always means false.
And no, oftentimes I would say myth is a way of conveying a truth in a different way.
The question is, did the authors intend writing these things as actual myth?
Or are they trying to write these things with the intention of,
I'm telling you actual history?
Are they trying to?
There's a lot of questions that kind of you wonder about it.
And then what was the reception?
And this is the issue that we've been having all along in terms of,
I think you and me both would say,
our problems that we find in all of the world views,
all of the traditions,
and specifically we're talking Islam today is that the reception
and the way that it's understood by exegetes and stuff,
that's one of the big hurdles.
That's the hard part about your job.
So I think it's a little complex, the answer to that.
So I think that historically, yes, myths, legends were meant by the readership,
the receptive audience that you're talking about.
They were meant to be understood literally.
So I actually agree with you on that.
However, the people constructing those myths,
surely if they're constructing them,
we know that they have a looser relationship to what we consider literal truth
than we do now.
They weren't historians.
Their relationship to what really happened is different.
So what I would say is that historically,
there was always an intellectual elite
who took a less than literal approach to scripture.
So for example, in Islamic history,
there were the classical Islamic philosophers,
the philosopher, who understood that scripture uses myths, metaphors, and symbols.
They weren't, this is not in the modern period.
This is hundreds and hundreds of years ago.
They knew that miracles were allegor- stories of miracles.
They didn't believe in miracles as, you know, like breaks of nature.
They knew that you can't break the law of nature.
So they understood them as allegories where they naturalized them.
But the point is, I think the difference is that in the pre-modern period,
there was a recognition that there's a difference between what the masses believe
and what the elite believe.
And that has broken down in modernity
so that now people are like, well, these are just false.
Right.
So it's because they're fighting against a certain fundamentalist, right?
So then it creates a beast.
I'm trying to, and this is me laying my cards out on the table.
I'm trying to make studying this stuff fun for skeptics, atheists, diagnostics,
people who don't believe or people who do believe
they can watch us and get into it.
But I'm trying to make this fun because you don't, it doesn't have to be hated.
Like you don't have to go, oh, there's a Quran.
I hate that book.
Like, you know, you can study this stuff, the Bible, right?
All sorts of evils in the world have been done based on New Testament,
Hebrew Bible, Old Testament, like all sorts of things.
But should we hate the book because people have abused or done things that we would say,
that's not cool.
So I'm trying to do that.
And let's get to Q&A because we'll never, we have a great vibe here.
So Inquisitive Mind, thank you for the super chat.
What do you think of the work of Shoemaker and Hoyland?
All right.
Let's say we're going to accept all controversial questions.
So I love reading both of these authors.
So let's start with Shoemaker first.
Shoemaker is an amazing writer and his books have won all sorts of awards.
And he does a great job of making his work translatable and understandable to specialists
from other fields outside of Quranic studies.
And so if you want to model a career, academic career, you should do it after Shoemaker.
And all he does is write prolifically.
I mean, I don't know how this guy writes as much as he does and he gets grants and has the ability to do that.
I do disagree with, I think he's a case of, I've come up with a theory and now I will build so many auxiliary hypotheses
to defend that theory to the death.
And I think that's the case.
I'm critical of his view that it took, you know, the prophet died two years later and that he was alive when they conquered Palestine.
I would point readers to the work of, there's an article written by, last name Shadell is his name,
who has written a response to Shoemaker on that point, which I found pretty convincing,
which kind of shows that the evidence that Shoemaker brings to make that claim is not as strong as he makes it out to be.
But look, this is a debate in the academic world and we should allow this kind of debate and difference of opinion.
So I encourage that.
The only thing that I don't appreciate of Shoemaker is in the end of one of his books,
and he kind of sometimes lectures to Muslims too, is he kind of implies, oh yeah, some Muslims are just doing apologia in academia.
And he likens, he says something that really honestly ticked me off was that ISIS has an easy time because the ideology of Muhammad would match closer.
You can see why they would come up with that.
And I just showed you all of the verses and the viewpoints on war and peace that is in the Quran.
And so I obviously disagree with that.
He has the idea that the kingdom of, he has the apocalyptic idea that a conquering winning kingdom is the one.
But do you have to have that ideology?
Couldn't he have been apocalyptic and not have to necessarily have the reigning kingdom concept?
For example, Jesus himself believed the end was going to happen soon, at least according to the biblical New Testament text, it seems.
I put it in his mouth.
Some scholars in the Jesus Seminar don't, but Paul seems to clearly think within his own lifetime it's all going in and none of them are fighting by sword to try and conquer.
But you're living in a different time too.
So in a different place.
So I do think that Prophet Muhammad was an apocalyptic prophet.
I agree with that.
I do agree with the idea that the Quran seems to indicate that the end time is nigh and it's even here and it's eminence or it's already started.
So I do think the idea that the Prophet's companions thought that the end time would be in their lifetime is the most obvious reading and understanding of it.
So I don't disagree with any of that, but I don't think that that means that he believed in conquering the world.
In fact, you could take it the other direction that how can you conquer the world if the world is going to end?
Exactly.
That's what I was saying.
So as far as Hoiland, I mean, I love reading Hoiland.
I also agree with him.
So he talks about, because one thing that we didn't talk about is, OK, well, what about the conquest of the neighboring areas?
I want to talk to you about that too.
So he talks about how the initial wars and the lifetimes of the first four caliphs, the warfare was probably and Firestone.
Dr. Firestone mentioned this as well last time.
It probably started accidentally.
I mean, there were border disputes that then drew the neighboring empires together.
But Hoiland talks about this.
So I absolutely love both of these authors.
Thank you so much.
The penny dreadful.
Thank you for the super chat.
Any thoughts on Dr. Majid Robinson, analysis of the Meccan population established 552 at the time of the prophet?
If his position, I think, distribution analysis is correct, how does this affect the one's view of Jihad?
I got to be honest.
I don't understand the question.
Do you want to have that person kind of read?
They can email me.
And then, of course, I could always just, when we do another episode at some point, we can always cover.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, email me, penny dreadful, please.
I really appreciate the support.
So I don't want that to, and also being a member of MythVision, please send me.
Yeah, I don't mean to be rude.
I just don't want to answer, not understanding the question.
Yeah, yeah, I get it.
I don't blame either.
And you're trying to be as accurate as you can in response.
So let's hit the next one.
It's quite a ways down here.
Forgive me.
Okay, here's the other one.
Yeshua DeKing, thank you for the super chat.
Will Hashmi debate Robert Spencer on the topic of Islam and Jihad while focusing on the truth of the matter without using what aboutism fallacies?
So this is a rhetorical question.
They gave you five bucks to say this.
Well, thank you for that.
Yeah.
So I'm an academic, so I don't engage in debates that are purely apologetic in nature about doctrine and so that's, I think, what he's asking of me.
I talk about what historically happened, what scripture said and means to its original audience, what the historical tradition says, and I can comment on what's going on in the presence.
But I'm not going to argue about, first of all, I'm a religious pluralist.
So I'm not going to debate with a Christian and try to bash the Bible or Christianity.
So yeah.
Okay.
Thank you for the support.
Yeshua DeKing and Yeshua DeKing again, reliance of the traveler page 744 permissible lying.
So this is a blatantly Islamophobic comment.
He's saying that what I've been doing for the last two, almost three hours is just lying.
So this is this Islamophobic concept of Takia that Muslims are allowed to lie and almost every group is accused of this.
So Jews were accused of this before.
So it's a deeply Islamophobic comments.
I imagine I'm lying too when I talk critically, of course.
So, you know, thank you for the super chat though.
Paul Cherry, aren't there some sects in Islam that have a platonic model and the transmission of the Quran to Muhammad wasn't verbal in the colloquial sense, but it was a matter of mind higher self.
This is absolutely correct.
So it was Neoplatonist ideas were very widespread.
So that's a different model of revelation compared to the one that you commonly hear about, which is that the archangel Gabriel came down and gave the literal word of God word for word.
So the Islamic philosophers did not believe that neither did other groups as well.
So this person is absolutely correct.
And what I would point out is that many liberal thinkers modernists today have started to resurrect these viewpoints and agree with them.
So, for example, I myself do not believe in the verbal dictation theory anymore because it creates all sorts of problems when it comes to issues that are going on in chronic studies today.
So, for example, in chronic studies, we talk about influences on the text.
Well, if the text is just verbally dictated, that's going to cause you severe problems if you have that kind of verbal dictation theory.
So thank you, Paul.
Great question.
Thank you for answering that.
Omer Abid, forgive me if I, Omer, forgive me if I'm butchering your name.
Excellent presentation.
Debate needed between Dr. Javad Hashmi and Sam Harris on Jihad.
Dr. Hashmi, do you accept, Derek, can you make it happen within the next six months?
I would love to do that.
So I actually, 10 years ago, my desire was that one day I'm going to debate Robert Spencer and Sam Harris.
And I didn't think it would actually, I didn't know if it would happen or not.
I was surprised that Robert Spencer agreed to debate me.
Biggest mistake of his life.
But now I have to, I really hope that the Sam Harris thing, I don't think, do you know Sam Harris at all?
I wish and I might confine the way to contact him, but I'm not 100% sure.
But I would love to debate Sam Harris.
I am a specialist in religion and warfare, specifically Islam.
And he's talked a big game about it.
And so I'd love to have a cordial debate and discussion with him.
I'll do my best.
I'll see what I can do and work.
And you could be the host.
I would love that.
I would love that.
All right, let's do it.
Yeah, ontologically speaking, you know, me and Sam have a lot in common.
As far as historically what the reality, I don't, I'm not picking sides because I have an ontology.
I want to know what the, what the data is.
And so let me be clear.
I have no problem with atheism, like people being atheists.
I have a problem with new atheism, which I'm going to post an article.
I'll tweet it out.
So whoever wants to see it can follow me by Glenn Greenwald, who himself is an atheist, probably.
But on his critique of new atheism, because of its deeply Islamophobic kind of genealogy and, and direction.
And this is not just Sam Harris was Islamophobic, but, you know, Christopher Hitchens, Dawkins,
I mean, they justified imperial warfare against the Muslim world.
So that's who I oppose.
So as long as Derek and you stay an atheist, I have no problem.
But it's this kind of militant anti Islam, like anti Islam kind of viewpoint that I oppose.
And what do we mean by Islam, right?
Like, because we act like everybody's under the same umbrella and thinks the same way.
This is what we're trying to do right now.
I think is handling what is Islam and how do we get people to move in a better direction, which you may have a lot in common there.
So critical faculty, go subscribe if you haven't already.
Thank you for that support.
Really appreciate it.
If Dr. Hashmi is correct, then why do we see Muhammad waging preemptive wars on unthreatening groups?
Did he not understand the words of Quran himself?
And if not, why didn't God correct that?
Ben Kariza is a prime example.
So this is a great question.
And I wish we had had time to address this more fully.
But this is the question of how do you reconcile what we've looked at about the Quranic doctrine with what's narrated in the Seerah Maghazi literature of the life story of the prophet?
And how do you also answer the question about the conquest that happened later?
So the question that I often get is, oh, all these Muslims just misinterpreted the Quran and, you know, and all of a sudden you got it right.
Well, no.
First of all, what I would say is understanding what the Quran and by the Quran, that from a critical scholarly perspective are the thoughts and words of the prophet Muhammad.
A believer can say that too.
It's just they believe that is divinely inspired.
But why would we look at the conduct to intuit what the doctrine is?
How many empires in history have existed that have not preached, not practiced what they preached?
America, the United States right now, let's say I was 200, 300 years from now is trying to understand what America's doctrine of warfare was.
And would I look at all of the wars of aggressive conflict, war in Iraq, war in Afghanistan and say, well, clearly they believed and espoused the idea that it's OK to aggress against other countries in order to steal their resources, etc.
To understand what their doctrine of warfare was.
No.
What you'd say is they actually had a different doctrine of warfare, which is why they came up with all of these justifications to justify these wars.
Yeah, because even the public didn't know doesn't know.
You see what I'm saying.
Yeah, correct.
So so like you wouldn't need these justifications if your doctrine of warfare allowed aggressive warfare.
Do you understand what I'm saying?
So.
So at worst what someone can say is that the Quran, which is the words of the prophet endorsed this non aggression doctrine and Muhammad didn't follow it.
That's the worst you could say.
I don't actually agree with that because the sources themselves as all critical scholars know are extremely problematic.
The zero was written down much long afterward.
And so you have to look very critically at the sources and the idea that all that the prophet waged preemptive wars against unthreatening groups is unjustified.
You'd have to critically look at the sources and the prophet was locked in a warfare with the Arabian pagans and there were a bunch of alliances and other tribes that allied themselves with their enemies.
So I don't agree with the idea that the prophet waged preemptive wars against unthreatening people.
Now you could accuse him of doing that.
But even if he did that, all you were saying is that he didn't live up to that ethic.
That's all you're saying.
You're not disputing what I'm arguing from the Quranic text itself.
And then as far as Baru Kareza, that's a different discussion altogether.
But for that, I would recommend this book for anyone who's interested.
It's Muhammad and the Jews, a reexamination by Barakat Ahmad.
He addresses this and I think he gets it right.
I mean, that's how problematic the sources are.
The story is that anywhere from 600 to 900 people were slaughtered.
They were taken, I think like hundreds of miles away from and brought to Medina and all put in one house.
And then they were all slaughtered the next day with no problems.
The sources from a critical historical perspective are very problematic.
So I do think that there was something that went on there, but it's not as this person is trying to imply.
But this is, I'd have to get into a lot of detail.
So we just don't have the time for that.
A few more, a few more.
Atif Bengash, forgive me if I had messed your name up.
Help research why Muslims believe that Ishmael was being sacrificed by Ibrahim rather than Isaac.
The Quran and scroll mention Isaac Nohadeeth's avian.
I don't know.
I think the point that he's trying to make is that Muslims and non-Muslims both should read the scripture with a clear mindedness.
Don't read it just through the tradition and you might come to separate conclusions.
I'm not going to weigh in on this specific debate right now, but I don't think it's crazy or outlandish to say that it was Isaac instead of Ishmael.
I mean, these views existed early on in Islamic history.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Yeshua the king again.
Did I say religious or truth debate Islamophobe?
Roll eyes.
Thank you.
There's nothing useful for me to say to that.
Appreciate the super chat.
Critical faculty.
So God sees his own prophet and message distorted as revelation is still happening and God doesn't intervene.
So like I said, I don't agree that the prophet waged offensive wars against unthreatening people.
So I've already stated that, but we didn't get a chance to talk about the Sira, which again is hotly contested by modern critical scholars.
But it seems like they are no longer able to debate on the actual issue, which is the Quranic doctrine of warfare, which is what I was talking about.
Thank you for all the support here and I appreciate everybody tuning in for real.
This has been a blast.
I want one more question.
I don't want us to rabbitron get lost, but usually when I ask an academic who is diving into certain topics, usually I'll say on any topic, it's never just everything perfectly lines up with their thesis.
There's sometimes a text that sticks out that might be like, you know, this is this is this one's a tough one.
Are there any passages in the Quran, even using your method that you've walked into and said, this one is hard to explain away.
And this is a tough one.
I mean, I would say that the verse that so of all.
So there are all these problematic verses that people bring up that I often just show the surrounding context and it becomes very clear for most of them.
It's literally either the rest of the verse or what came right before one sentence before one sentence afterward and it becomes perfectly clear.
I would say the only one in which that isn't abundantly clear is 929 verse 929.
Patricia Crona mentions that verse herself and says, I have her quote here somewhere, but she basically says that is the only one that doesn't do it, but it's obviously connected to the earlier passages 9, 1, all the way to all those verses that we showed.
So she says it doesn't really seem to justify aggressive warfare based on just understanding that it comes along with those passages.
But I would say 929, there's always going to be a verse that I had hoped that like it'd be like right before it and right after it.
But now the question is, are you going to take the medieval exegetical route and say this one verse abrogates 200 other verses?
Or are you going to say that, OK, those 200 other verses give you the doctrine and then you just understood it and understood it in that try to understand it with that verse.
I think you obviously do it the other way or the second way.
And that's how I would take it.
I think anyone, this is me, I don't know, unless you're a Muslim who like absolutely believes it's part of your absolute, I must follow my other way of thinking here.
I think any person, secular, someone who has my kind of worldview and wants hope and peace and things for the world to be just getting better, could get behind what you're aiming at.
And we see that this is an uphill battle in many ways, but so is Christian nationalism.
So is a lot of things that go on in America.
And I'm not going to give up and I hope you don't either, Dr. Hashmi.
I hope that more people will seriously consider what you're saying, no matter what your ontology is.
Check out what you're saying, see if what he's saying is factual.
I can't wait for you to eat your PhD, of course, too.
And I want to do this again with you.
Sounds like a plan.
Let's get the Sam Harris thing going and then we'll have a debate.
Speaking of which, Omar, thank you again for the super chat.
Forgive me if I mess your name up.
Derek, thanks for trying to arrange a debate.
Sam Harris would rather discuss or chat rather than debate.
That would be fine also.
And just as one last comment, I want to reiterate the point that the reading that I have given is now the dominant reading amongst modern Muslims.
Like I said, it's taught at Azhar now.
The only difference is that they kind of gloss over the interpretive tradition.
So I just like openly say that the medieval exegetes got it wrong and this is how they got it wrong.
But this interpretation that I've given is not like, I'm not just this lone figure in a corner who's saying this and everyone's disagreeing with me.
I just want that to be out there.
I really appreciate it.
Man, this has been great.
Are there any final words from you?
Maybe encourage your Muslim friends and just telling them like, how do you encourage someone who's not used to what you just said today?
Well, I would just say that, look, I'd reiterate the fact that we want to know what the historical Muhammad said or did.
That's a part of faith.
And so we shouldn't be fearful of a techniques and approach that allows you to do that.
Keep an open mind.
And that is something that you have to be ready to swallow some bullets, swallow some difficult truths.
And I've had to do those.
So just because the cookie crumbled the way I wanted to when it comes to jihad in the Quran, it doesn't mean that in a lot of other situations, it turned out a way that perhaps I didn't want it to.
Because I had to give up things that I believe growing up.
Like I grew up on the idea that every single Quran, everywhere in the world was exactly the same.
Every, as you said, every jot and tittle, right?
That's how you say it.
Yeah.
And then you find out, oh, wait, that's that's not the case.
Well, I would just say make sure that you're, don't be brittle and break easily.
If your faith is more flexible, then you can.
And from that standpoint, Fred Donner has written a great book chapter called The Historian, The Believer, and the Quran.
And he said that even if historical scholarship found out that Muhammad constructed the Bible by reading the backs of cereal boxes.
If there was like a videotape evidence of that and we saw it, you could still say, okay, well, that's how God wanted a prophet to.
Now, I told Donner when I met him, I was like, probably that would break the camp.
But I got his point, though, you know, his point was that just because something conflicts with what you grew up on or the tradition doesn't mean that it should break your faith altogether.
That's how, but I'm a more kind of, I'm flexible in that aspect.
Like I want to know the truth.
And so I'm okay with where historical scholarship goes.
Thank you so much.
And I would encourage people who are not Muslims to consider what is being said today.
Investigate it.
Look, we deal with the New Testament, we see gospel literature.
You wouldn't go to Justin Martyr to technically understand what the New Testament or Paul actually meant.
Maybe they get some things right.
But oftentimes as critical scholarship showing, they're completely divorced from the context of Paul and what he's actually dealing with in the first century.
And so these are things that I also want to say, let's also apply the same rule over here.
Dr. Hashmi, thank you so much for your time.
I really appreciate it.
I hope others watching this learned something and we'll see what they think as they investigate the Quran and read it for yourself.
Go see and see what he said.
Test it.
Thank you so much.
Thanks so much, Derek.
It was a blast.
And check out the description.
Everything's there.
Help support us.
Subscribe to his YouTube channel.
Join our Patreon.
Literally, I pinned that at the top of this comment section.
And let's show love.
Never forget, we are MythVision.
Don't go anywhere yet, my friend.
