All right, looks like we're recording here. I have Professor Joseph A.P. Wilson with us at
MythVision. How are you doing? I'm doing great. Thank you for having me again. It's always a
pleasure, Derek. I love interviewing you. You're really well spoken and you say what you mean and
it makes sense. It's easy to understand, so viewers will get what you're saying today.
Just to introduce you again to those who may not have seen our previous interviews,
Joseph Wilson is a broadly trained archaeologist and a lecturer in the Department of Classics at
the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. He earned a doctorate from the University of Florida
and a master's or master's degrees from Michigan Technological University and the University of
London, School of Oriental and African Studies. His research addresses long-distance cultural
exchanges in ancient Eurasia through the analysis of material culture, technology and religion.
Welcome back, my friend. Thanks for having me. So you're going to be proving the validity
of the ancient Eastern religions today. Actually, so what are we doing today? What do you have for it?
So we were chatting with a group of us that are your scholarly friends. We're chatting
about the whole undesigned coincidences thing and you were saying, do you have any notions about
of some undesigned coincidences you could talk about? And I think this is a good example. I'm
going to share with you a good example of an undesigned coincidence or it just a coincidence
is probably a better way to say it because all real coincidences are undesigned in my opinion.
This is an interesting thing that pops up in a medieval manuscript that points back to a historical
fact from about a thousand years earlier. And I want to set the bar really high for what we
consider to be an undesigned coincidence. And so I'm going to present this one and we're going to
kind of go around the barn a little bit to get there, but hopefully at the end you'll see where
I'm coming from. So to contrast this with the use of the term undesigned coincidences by
religious apologists where they're talking about closely related literatures where you
can't really call it coincidental. So where the very use of the word coincidence is problematic.
I 100% amen to that. I'm on your side there. And I've said this before if it was a coincidence
you can't know that it was when you know there's design happening. So the designing of a coincidence
makes it not a coincidence. It makes it an intentional plot point in your narrative. Yeah.
And it's obvious these are narratives, but like when conning you know that kind of thing you're
taking up taking a new a new installment in a franchise and making it fit with the older
installments. So right. Right. Well, let's get into this. I'm excited to see what you present.
All right. Thank you. Do I need to bring up the PowerPoint? You would want to bring up the
PowerPoint if you can. So my presentation here is on the early Srimana movements which originate
in India around 2500 years ago. And after Alexander the Great's conquest of parts of what was then
Northern India, what's modern Afghanistan and Pakistan, that after he conquered those regions
there was some some degree of influence, some amount of Indian philosophy and religious knowledge
made it back through the Greek world and was preserved in various literatures down to the
medieval period and and illuminated manuscripts that were recorded by Christians, Jews and Muslims.
And so I want to talk about the echoes of authentic Srimana religious practices in
late medieval manuscript in one late medieval manuscript in particular. So we're going to
just do a really quick rundown of what the Srimana religions are. The two most famous Srimana
religions, one of them is Buddhism. So Buddha, the Buddha was a member of a Srimana sect.
And the other one is Jainism, Mahavira, the founder of the religion of Jainism, which is
closely related to Buddhism. That's the other surviving Srimana religion. So there are two
religions that still exist today and have lots of practitioners in the current era.
These were the religions that were counter cultural with respect to the the normal
state religion of ancient India, which we call Brahmanism at that same or Brahmanical polytheism.
So like the ancestor to Hinduism, it becomes it's called Hinduism in like the medieval period,
but back then it would have been Vedic Polytheism. So like the Rig Vedas are the
the Hindu Old Testament, if you will, the earliest like writings in Sanskrit that are
pertaining to the polytheism of the Indian subcontinent. Well, the Srimana movements were
monastic movements that arose in opposition to the hereditary priesthood of the Brahmanas.
And in ancient classical Western sources, like in Greco-Roman sources, they talked about the
religion of India as being made up of two religions, the Brahmanas and the Srimanas. So they would say
Indians practice one of two faiths, Brahmana or Srimana. So you can think of the early Srimana
movements as more like denominations of a one movement of which Buddhism and Jainism are
now distinct religions that survive. Okay, so you can advance to the next slide. That's oh,
the statue in the first slide was the Mahavira and the Buddha. You can see their similar iconography,
right, the way that they're portrayed and everything. It all goes back to the same sort
of art style. Okay, go on. So essentially what you have is a large vocabular religious
vocabulary that's shared across various Srimana movements. So then this shows again that they're
more like denominations of a larger movement. So they have the name Srimana is generally means
monk, right, to be a Srimana is like a, you know, like a striving monk who's trying to perfect
himself. Or her son, a nun would be the woman version, right? Samsara is this concept in Indian
religion of the endless cycle of birth and death as we reincarnate and reincarnate again.
And in the Srimana movements, it's, it's bad. You don't think of the endless reincarnation as being a
a worthy goal. It's not like you want to keep live because you keep suffering and dying over
and over again and forgetting and doing it and then forgetting. And it's as so in other words,
Samsara is eternal suffering, the constant rebirth and death. And so the object of the Srimana
meditation, ascetic practice is to break the wheel of Samsara and to enter. And so to enter
Nirvana, which is the cessation, the ultimate triumph over death, that means that you don't
do it anymore and you become undifferentiated from the cosmos in some way. How the specifics depends
on your sect, right? They're not all the same. But the terminology that the Srimana movements
used was, was quite consistent. So like when the Buddha becomes enlightened, the other people who
see him become enlightened, they can follow him into Nirvana. And they are our hearts or our
hearts, right? We're depending on the dialect. And they are the enlightened disciples, like,
the Buddha's Peter and Simon, like the 12 apostles in Christianity, only with him, his people
were able to enter Nirvana with him. And whereas the later monks have to like work a lot harder
because they don't have like the dude himself to take him there. Right. They also popularize the
notion of karma as a moral law where you will cause an effect. That's the sort of way we think of
karma. Now that really comes from the Srimana movements originally, the early Vedic texts have
karma in them, but they're more like, they mean it more like ritual obligation, like the duty of
the priest. So like the earliest use of karma in, in the ancestor of Hinduism, doesn't have the same
sort of notion of like, when I sin, I face consequences when I do good, I get rewards,
those that that notion. So like the technical way that we think of karma functioning in Indian
religion, that's a product of the Srimana movements. Also Dharma as moral law, like preaching the law
of Buddhism, the Sangha, the monastic community, that even the titles, the honorific titles that
we use for these people, they could have been used by members of the different sects. So what
do I mean by that? If like, if you are a Jain, a follower of Mahavira, the founder of Jainism,
you say, Mahavira, you are a Buddha because a Buddha is an awakened one. Right. So the word Buddha is
a title. And when we say Buddha, we think the historical Buddha who founded Buddhism, Siddhartha
Gautama, but he's also in some sense a Jina, a victor over death. Right. So in other words, these
that they use the same titles for their leaders, they're, and they have the same name for scriptures,
sutras, which are they're like their gospels, if you will. And they also involve the same Hindu gods
as foils. Like so Brahma and Indra are not real, they are God, they're like real moral guides,
but they don't have ultimate reality. They have their like figments, they're there to, they hope
that these, that the shaman leaders, they say, Buddha, you're the only one who could save people,
we can't. So they plead with him to not enter Nirvana too soon, because he needs, he has the
capacity to rescue, to liberate suffering humanity, where gods can only like, can only show how to
be good person, which isn't good enough, which doesn't get you there. Right. So you see both Jain
and Buddhist scriptures where they were the Brahma, Brahma, the creator God and Indra, the
king of heaven are like, yeah, less, less than the human leaders of their own sects, they're less
important. So you see this pattern across various shaman movements. Again, the only two that survive
are Buddhism and Jainism. But they were linked early on, the Buddha was probably originally one
of Jain's, the Jain leader Mahavira's disciples. And then he ultimately broke away from the movement
that gives you Jainism. And because he thought it was too extreme in certain ways. So they're like,
Jains are more, Jains are more moderate in some of their metaphysical beliefs than Buddhists,
but they're more radical in terms of their practices. Their, their, their, their asceticism
is more extreme. Right. Whereas the Buddha, Buddhism is the middle path. It's trying to,
it's a more moderate form of the Sharmana practice, where it says you wear clothing.
This reminds me of Jesus coming in and going, look, come on, your animal falls in the, on a Sabbath.
It reminds me in a way on. Yeah, yeah, that's right. So, so, and, and also the tension, you,
you see that similar tensions between, between Brahmanism and Shamanism and Shamanism,
you see between the, the, the Christianity and earlier forms of rabbinical or, you know,
proto rabbinical Judaism that the, the Nazarene sector are struggling against. Like in, in Luke,
where you get the tension between family obligations and going and serving Jesus. Right.
The Shramanas were, were world renouncers. So they were people who were abandoning their families
to go and live at the monastic, to go follow the religious life. Right. So you have that
very analogous, like, you know, where this new movement is like flaunting the social obligations
that are associated with the ethnic religion in, in, in, in India. All right. So we're,
we're going to move on because we got to get to our example here.
Did you want me to go to the next one? Okay.
Yeah. Yeah. Go ahead. So those are just a list of many. So just to reveal how much
Buddhism and Jainism have in common. They're very, very, very closely related at the point
of origin 2,500 years ago. And again, both of these traditions, they didn't write down their
sutras for like hundreds of years. We think of it, we've, you know, you people are skeptical
because the Jesus movement didn't start writing the biographies of the founder until decades later.
You know, and so we're like all skeptical of that. And in the case of the South Asian religions,
the biographies of the founders weren't written until centuries later. So there was a
long, long period when the monastic orders used rote memorization. They had like, you know,
like they had, they had the different sections of what eventually became this canon of scripture.
There were like monks in charge of like reciting the oral history of the religion. And then
eventually they said, Oh, this is getting, this is getting really old. And we need to
start writing it down. But what I'm going to say though, is that at the time that Alexander the
Great, in like what the third century BC, the time that Alexander the Great shows up,
we're still in that early period of the Srimana movements. So now we're a century or two after
the, these guys are dead. So it's their second, third, fourth, fifth generation disciples.
But they haven't got to the point where they're scripturally codified yet, right? So they're
still in this sort of nebulous, the Srimana movements are so that that's why the Greeks
talk about the fact that there's, you know, Brahmanas and Srimanas. They didn't say there's
Hindus, Buddhists, Jains, et cetera, because they hadn't developed that sort of clear demarcation.
Kind of like early Christianity, that there's muddling of various gospels and texts and beliefs,
but eventually they nail it down with an orthodox position in a way that divides the different
groups in a way. I think you said, you cut out for a brief moment there. Hopefully,
you got the recording on your end. From what I heard, I think I agree with what you just said.
Yeah, just the only difference is the apologists will say, look at how much sooner they wrote
about the Jesus and not, right? Yeah, no, that's fine. Yeah, but we're not, I'm not here to apologize
for any religion. I'm just here to talk about the historical contours of this particular thing. So
got it. So yeah, they're written down later. So let's now go back in time and talk about the
fact that there were actually three extinct sects of the Srimana movement that were at the time
equal to Buddhists and Jains, right? So Buddhists and Jains were major and they survived to the
present. But if you go back 500 years before Christ, they were just one of about five total
different major schools within their own movement. And so let's talk about the, and the Greeks came
when they were, and they didn't necessarily encounter Buddhists, as we know them, or Jains,
as we know them, they might have encountered Srimana leaders and Srimana sects that were
representatives of the other now extinct forms of this like countercultural religious thing.
And they form a huge spectrum with like hedonism at one end and extreme asceticism at the other end.
Think about like the 60s counterculture in the United States, right? You had like, you had like
some people doing orgies and some people doing like Orthodox Hindu, like extreme vegetarianism
celibacy, right? So you have and other people, some people who believed in very, very strict
theological stuff. And some people were absolutely radically atheists, right? You had in the Srimana
movement the entire spectrum that we're talking about here. There were some sort of the theistic
Srimanas maybe, but for the most part, they were much more non-theistic and atheistic than
Brahmanical religion was at the time. So if you were like experimenting with atheism,
you'd probably be a member of one of these Srimana sects if you were from India at that,
you know, in that stage. Okay. Oh, but here's a problem. Most of our surviving references to the
extinct ones comes through their rival texts, right? And like Buddhism and Jainism in particular,
caricature their opponent. Why should you be a member of my group and not theirs because they're,
you know, this nasty thing and that nasty thing. So that the beginning of the distortion of our
picture comes from the fact that the surviving sects are where we get the most detailed written
accounts of the sects that don't survive, which are the ones that are the bad ones,
according to the good ones, right? Okay. So let's quickly go over the three Srimana sects that no
longer exist. Next slide. And by the way, just one note. Yeah. Or the same problem we have
technically with Orthodox Christianity writing in terms of caricature. Yeah. That's right. Mark,
whether you're talking about mannequins or Marcianites or various flavors of Gnosticism or,
you know, Arians or you name, you know, the followers of various that there are numerous
examples of the religions that get rejected, becoming caricature turned into kind of like
cartoonish exaggerations of their actual, like much more like mundane reality.
Okay. So let's talk about the three. And again, these are the only ones we know of. We know that
there were five different Srimana sects and three of them we know are now extinct. There may have
been others too. So the Locoyatas were one and they, and most of them were nudists, at least the male
practitioners were. Buddhism rejected the clothing optional monastic lifestyle. And so they were more
like moderate or even conservative when it came to dress, whereas their other competing Srimana
movements were all about like shedding attachments, like the Jedi, no attachments. So shedding
attachments means you cut off your beautiful hair, you throw away your beautiful robes, and you just
have your begging goal, and you go and sit in the forest and you, and, you know, and you let
the enlightenment approach you. Okay. So the, but so most of them were probably
naked philosopher ascetics. And several of the groups were rather radically atheists. Some of
them were more moderate, like agnostic. Like we think that the gymnasts may have been agnostic.
The Ajivikas and the Locoyatas were both atheistic. So the the Locoyatas were hedonists
who believed in like sense pleasure, first and foremost. And that was the first, that was one
of the early Srimana movements that lasts down through the period of the formation of the other
ones. And they're one of the ones that gets rejected by the others, right? But for their
hedonism, like Buddhism, it says that there is no, you don't get enlightenment by giving into your
like desire to like, have, you know, get high and orgasm. Like it's not the, it's not the point
of your existence. So, so the, but the Locoyatas were also nudists and atheistic. The Ajivikas
are interesting because they were like atheistic Calvinists. They had, they believed in predestination.
And they believe that there was no, that karma was pointless. They said there's no reason to worry
about karma because it's all been decided in advance. And the only reason why we do this
religious practice is for the point is so that we can, you know, live a good life, not because we
expect any like anything to happen afterwards. And, but so they, they, they did not believe in
free will. That's really interesting. But they were, and they were one of the major Srimana
sects at the time. So they were probably one of the chief rivals to early Buddhism, like the
Buddhist movement was like trying to get off the ground and they had to debate with their rivals
in the movement. Cause, so like, and then the, the, the one that's mentioned in the Greek sources,
the one that we think that the, the, the, the, the caravans surrounding Alexander the Great
encountered are the gymnasophists and think that's like a Greek name, right? Think of it like as
gymnastic sophists, right? These are, these are physically disciplined yoga practicing
philosopher monks and they are very similar to the Jains. They're like a slightly more radical
form of Jainism. If you look at modern, the practice is a modern Jainism. They probably
have the most in common with the gymnasophists in many ways. And that, that so, oh, but just to
clarify, Jains still practice new decepticism. At least the Southern Jains do the Digambara
sect or the sky clad monks of South India, the males don't wear clothing and there are no,
and because it's not appropriate for women to do that sexism, you know, it's, there's no, there
are no nuns in, in Digambara. Jane is moving to Northern India where it's colder. Those Jains
are dominated by nuns and they wear clothing because it's Northern India and it's, you can't,
you know, you shiver if you weren't wearing clothes. And so the, so the Mahavira, the Jains,
he was also somewhat more moderate in the sense that he said clothing optional. He said, he didn't
mandate nudity. It wasn't like a requirement for Jain monasticism. Whereas it was forbidden by
Buddhists. It was optional for Jains and for the others, it was pretty much mandatory. If you're
going to join us, you're not wearing, you're not wearing clothing. All right. So now we're moving
on to the, go to the next slide. So here is an illustration from a Nepalese palm leaf manuscript.
So this would be a Buddhist scripture from Nepal that shows the miracle at Shravasti, which is,
you know, how Jesus walks on water and Jesus divides the loaves. Buddhists also have, after
Buddha's enlightenment, he also does like these miracles, these bodily miracles that cause people
to say, wow, you must really be the Buddha. And in this case, he multiplies his form. He appears in
more than one place at a time. And here he's doing it in a debate with all the other Shramana leaders.
And so what's he do? You see what the picture shows? He's now in three places at once. And what
do the other Shramana leaders or all these nude philosopher ascetics, including like Jains and
Gymnocipists, et cetera, and Ajivikas, what are they, what are they doing? They're like, whoa,
and they're like doing backflips. And like, he's completely, he's completely blown their mind. And
he's also wearing clothes, right? So how is he, how is he capable to do that when he doesn't, you
know, when he's not naked like us? Anyway, so this is just showing that the nudity is not treated
as a virtuous thing in the Buddhist tradition. And it's shown as one of like the, you know,
the things that we do better than you. But regardless, this is just illustrating that that
whole Shramana spectrum was existing Buddhist literature as negative contrasts, the virtuousness
of Buddhists versus the, you know, the flaws of these other teachers. Go next. Yep. So let's get
into the Greek accounts. So around the time of Alexander the Great, they're actually meeting up
with with real Gymnocipists, real early Shramana leaders. And there are a couple of indications
of solid historical accounts from early on. There's a lost description written by Onasecretus,
and, and recorded partially in Strabo's geography. So, which is available online, you can read it
yourself. So about, you know, six or seven sections of chapter one of book 15 are, you know, paraphrasing
the accounts of Onasecretus. And you can see there's a little bit about the Brahmanas and you
can see some similarities to famous Indian practices like bride burning and various weird marital things
that are talked about in relation to the Brahmanas. And then when they're talking about the Shramanas,
they talk about extreme bodily mortification and nudity, and also a set of, you know, generally
ascetic skeptical cynical philosophy. So people for a long time thought Onasecretus was projecting
Greek cynicism into the philosophy of these Indian Gymnocipists. But recently, I think more people
have been rejecting that idea and saying, no, actually, if anything, maybe Greek cynicism
grew out of this contact, right? They're like, there's later Greek philosophical movements that
might have been inspired by interaction with India. And with these, so it goes two ways. It's not
just like influence from one direction to the other. Right. All right. And so, yeah, Piro of
Ellis is a, he has a kind of a radical skeptical philosophy that several people think is directly
influenced by the contact between Alexander and Alexander's retinue and the Shramanas. It wasn't
Alexander himself, although the later legends show Alexander himself meeting with the Shramana
leaders, because the later legends are distortions. It was more like he sent a Onasecretus who is a
philosopher general. So he's he's a military leader, but he's also a philosopher. And he's
interested in learning from these, these Indian philosophers, and they don't go, they don't go
to people to missionize. They're just they're doing their thing in their, in their space,
and they let it be known that they don't mind if you come and ask them questions, but they're not,
they don't care if you're a freaking king, right, or emperor. There's nobody who's important enough
that they would go hat in hand and say, oh, here, let's let me tell you about what I believe, right?
They're not interested. They're interested in their own personal spiritual journey. And that
actually causes I think maybe the cause of the Greeks to respect them, right, to say, hey, you
know, they're, they take this stuff really seriously. So Onasecretus is like interested in
their philosophical teaching. So he goes and visits them, he writes this account that's now lost,
partially survives in secondary sources. And then what happens after that is you get a lot of spin
and embellishment and ridiculous exaggerations over centuries and centuries that are still mostly
attributed to classical sources. So there's a variety of classical sources that deal with
the Gymnosephists, some like in some, I forget, one of them is it Megasthanes, one of the ancient
historians who's a Selyukid ambassador to India, he gets information about the Gymnosephists from
their Brahminist rivals. And so the Brahminists are telling are saying they hate them and they're
like nasty and awful. And so you get like a little bit about Gymnosephists through them.
But then they say, oh, there's this one guy, is it Dan Dimus, he's the one of their teachers,
he's okay, you know, most of them are assholes, but there's this one Gymnosephist that we think is
all right. And so that influences later European thinking about the Gymnosephists.
And then there are legends. So Pseudo Callisthenes is, or Callisthenes is the guy who the Alexander
Romantic legends are attributed to, he's an ancient Greek historian, he obviously didn't
actually write them. But he is the name that gets put on them, as they evolve and change
and get like new additions, like fake letters written between, you know, the Gymnosephist
King and Alexander, right? They're like, do you have like this series of correspondence and
everything? And it's all made up. There was a fun Hellenistic World Party game where you would
play the part of a Gymnosephist and someone would ask you questions, right? Like philosophical
questions like how, you know, why does why do birds fly or whatever? I don't know specifically off
the top of my head. And then you would your role play a Gymnosephist answering with your like
extremely sophisticated Indian philosophy. And these got these party games got transcribed and
then put into the let the Alexander legends on more than one occasion, versions of that party
game show up in the Talmud. They show up there attributed to Pseudo Callisthenes. I think some
of them show up in Plutarch. I think that they are they end up, you know, that indirectly they
influence the discussion of this stuff in the Quran, right? Of Alexander the Great's interaction
with the Indians. And so, so what where I'm coming from is the medieval Alexander romances
attributed to Pseudo Callisthenes, we would have no way to know that there's any accurate
information there. Like if you were just going by the text itself, you would say,
this is complete and total bologna, right? Artie. Now skip to the next one. And I'll show. So here's
the undesigned coincidence that this is the all that all that. I know it's like a big deal, right?
Here's the on here is Alexander, the king meeting with the king of the Gymnosephist,
by the way, of course, they wouldn't be really came. These are all like later European
anachronisms for showing the Gymnosephist with a crown and everything.
Oops, sorry. What did I do? Yeah, no, yeah, was that the did you skip? No, go back. Yeah, there,
that's where we're at. So this is showing the nude philosopher aesthetics, the Gymnosephists
talking to Alexander the Great. And this is in a Middle Middle English manuscript,
illumination of one of those Alexander romances that I was talking about.
This little icon, this little artistic convention that we see, what do you notice, Derek,
about the Gymnosephists, besides the fact that they have beers and and
they look Greek. I mean, they look similar to Alexander in a way. Well, yeah, that's because
people didn't have the notion that people elsewhere dressed differently or looked differently.
The artists assumed that people all over the world look the same.
Well, they're naked. They're naked. That's the most obvious. The naked. Okay. So the nudity is
act is like the nude philosopher aesthetic, the new monks, that that detail comes down. But
that's pretty mundane. There's something a little more significant. And I'm sorry, I got a mini
split in here. If it's buzzing, I apologize. What, what, what, what are they? They're not
entirely naked. Look closely. What's on their bodies? From what I can see, I mean, they have
beards. They're they have hair. The green stuff. Oh, I didn't know that. I thought that was
something from the background or something. What is that? Oh, those are vines. They're vines.
They're not naked. They're naked. And they have forest vines wrapping around their limbs and body.
And this is the undesigned coincidence. It's that detail. So you basically have a whole lot
of bullshit that is not accurate information about ancient Indian religion in this text.
But in this one little manuscript illumination, it shows forest vines wrapped around their nude
bodies. That is an authentic early Srimana tradition. It's not a tradition in terms of practice. You
don't go rat. You don't wear, wear leaves as clothing. But it relates to the doctrine, like
I told you, the gymnosephists are very close to the Jains. One of the most important Jain saints
is a guy named Bahupali, who lived after this, by the way. So he's, you know, an early, like
early 1st millennium, mid 1st millennium. I forget precisely his, his dates of life. But go to the
next slide. All over southern India, there are megalithic statues of Bahupali. There's several
of them. This is one. And they are sites of Jain pilgrimage. So here is the great Jain saint Bahupali.
And he is meditating in the forest with such incredible devotion that the forest does what?
The forest grows around him and consumes him. He is so at one with the universe that, that the
life as we know it of his place, just it conjoins with him. He's got animals living in his armpits.
You know what I mean? He's got, and so like, I think of, I don't know if Tolkien was directly
inspired by this, when he came up with Radigas the Brown in, you know, the, if you've seen the
Hobbit movie, where he's got like the birds in his hair and things like that. But that's similar
idea. Somebody who's so at one with nature that nature is at one with him. So the fact that in
that medieval European manuscript, you have those little green vines on the naked guys,
means that there's some part of the lore that's getting passed down all the way from the beginning,
right? That includes that accurate detail of a tradition associated with nude philosophers
in the early Tramana period. And why do I say it's likely that that is actually a retention
of some accurate recollection, rather than a later borrowing or later influence? Because
this is an obscure detail outside of India, right? Missionary Buddhism is big in Central Asia, East
Asia. Sure, Europeans eventually encounter Buddhism in various places, but Buddhism doesn't do
new, new Decepticism. Buddhism doesn't have this, this teaching. Jainism never becomes a missionary
religion. Jainism never goes out onto the Silk Road. It never becomes something that like Greeks
are aware of. Its relationship to Gymnosephism is like 500 BC. It goes back to that, you know,
so the fact that it branches from the same root stock as the tradition that the
European manuscript is described, okay? Got it. And that's pretty much where we're at with this.
So I'm showing that I'm setting a very high bar here for undesigned coincidences. I say,
I think that you could find something in an ancient manuscript that is such a compelling
coincidence that you'd say, wow, this means something historical, that there is a historical
kernel there that we can extract and say, wow, and be impressed. But the reason why we know it is
because of the lack of other connecting tissues here. It's the very fact that it occurs in isolation,
in a sea of otherwise completely unrelated stuff that's just superficially connected by the name,
the fact that the same character is involved, right? But the story itself is so divergent
from what actually happened. You would normally say there is very little historical information
we can extract from this document that is meaningful in terms of the time that it's referring to.
But this is an example of something where you say, oh, except for this. And so the coincidence
means something in contrast to the material that is not accurate. If it was all accurate,
then it would just be all accurate, if that makes sense. Why would this undesigned coincidence
matter if it was part of an otherwise entirely accurate story? It would just be a correct
version, if that in that case. Whatever. Okay, I'm starting to ramble a little bit.
The last slide I have is a slightly different topic. It's just pointing out that there were
Buddhist texts that were translated into Christian terms and transmitted as Christian texts. And
Barlam and Josephat is the most famous one where the Buddha actually gets turned into a Christian
saint and is really, really popular in late medieval and early modern Europe. And this is a
German woodcut showing the Buddha going out into the world like right before he goes on,
starts his religious mission when he's still in his home palace. He's like prince and he's going
out and he sees the crippled man, the sick man that reveals to him the existence of suffering.
So yeah, so what I'm saying is that there are actual influences of Indian religion in medieval
Europe at the time that come through a lot of different intermediate stages from Persia and
Arabia, etc. But those influences are not about Jainism and not about early Srimana practices,
but the later contemporary forms that were the medieval versions of these religions,
Wow. So we need to dive into this for a moment. Are we done here?
Yeah, so that's my presentation and as far as I'm concerned, I'm just checking the time real
quick. I've got 20 minutes easily if you want to ask me anything you want or just chat about.
Absolutely. Okay, so Joe, let me ask you this. We talk about this weird conundrum of a viny
covering person that goes back to like a really early form of Jainism that shouldn't necessarily
be in this place. I, being a detective who's critical, want to know how the hell did this end
up in this, right? So what are your what are your guesses? Because this is an interesting point.
So I think that there's a number of different ways you could approach it. But I think the most
inherently plausible one is to remember is that we always should assume that there are twice as
many sources that used to exist than do exist now. Right. And that for every surviving source,
there might have been two or three equally important texts that haven't survived. And so if we think
of this, if we think of every ancient text that makes it to the present as a glimmer,
like a pixel, in an otherwise more complete picture. I mean, look at the new, the recent
oxyrhynchus manuscripts, you know, or the like, is it the Riddland's manuscript? There's like
several fragmentary early Gospels that are related to the synoptic traditions and Thomas
and that are not represented in any surviving documents. And the fact that when you go through
document dumps in Egypt, you periodically find a new gospel that isn't at all related to the other
ones. Or I mean, I shouldn't say that isn't identical to the other ones. It's not Matthew.
It's not Luke. It shares common features with both. But it's like, you know, there's, there's
enough of them now that we have to say, wow, the literatures that survive are just a like a piece
of a larger body of text. So whatever we're seeing there must be related to something we don't know
about. And, you know, we have to be content with not knowing about that. Being comfortable with
uncertainty is like the first thing that you have to do if you're interested in ancient history and
archaeology. And that is to say that we're, we're, we're looking for glimmers of something that is
hidden from us and will never be visible from us. Yeah, I like this, this what you're describing
here. I tend to think that as well. Like maybe there's something we aren't aware of. And we've
probably lost way more than we preserved on a lot of this stuff. But the other thing I wanted to
ask you that I think is interesting about that is, suppose we don't know exactly, but maybe it's
more popular, or maybe we are missing something in history, we just don't see how this got into this
legend, I'll call it, a rolling legend, which I personally also look at the New Testament,
the Gospels, and call them rolling legends. You see a continuation of this kind of material
in the genre. And the undesigned coincidence folks, they, they have, they have these certain
boundaries and walls. So when you go into the non canonical material, and you find some
undesigned coincidences, as long as it lines up with the canonical material, that's somehow a
memory that's found itself into the legendary stuff. So let's compare this to what you just
described. Yeah, yeah. So I'm somebody who tends to be more sympathetic to like the people who
believe that there's a, at least a portion of the gospel. So let's talk about the gospel
according to Thomas. Okay, the gospel according to Thomas is an example of a non canonical source
that's got a very strong historical relationship to the canonical sources, that you could certainly
do your undesigned coincidences kinds of arguments, comparing the logia in Thomas with the corresponding
sayings in the synoptic tradition. So someone like Mark Goodacre has done this and he argues that
Thomas is a late derivative, like mashup of the synoptic. So somebody with some, some
narcissizing community took the traditions in the synoptics and kind of blended them
into a new thing framed in a new way. And that's where Thomas comes from. And I would say, Oh,
well, but hold on, there are occasions when individual logia in Thomas appear to be
possibly more primitive, more like earlier versions of the same idea than the ones that
survive. And that could have a lot of different explanations. It could be as Goodacre would argue
that they're being developed in a different direction. And someone is, you know, retconning
or, you know, coming up with a new spin that provides a bigger picture to something that
maybe didn't make a whole lot of sense in the original version, right? Or some, you know,
someone's come doing a better, better repackaging of the same idea. Or it could be that the other
ones have, we did have, have winnowed it down. Because the earlier, the earliest core of the
synoptic tradition has got to be Mark, right? And Mark is, Mark is very fragmentary. We don't
know. The evidence for early forms of Mark are piecemeal. And as a result of the fact that we
don't have, but I don't know, a fraction of the very early text of Mark that we have of all the
other synoptics means we don't necessarily know the original form, right? Maybe Thomas is preserving
a version of the Mark account that the surviving versions don't have. So unless you were to get
like a really early and very complete manuscript of Mark, you don't have a very good way of saying
which came first, the chicken or the egg, right? There are all these different interdependencies
between the canonical and the non-canonical traditions are mysterious unless you have the
like the ur text behind all of them, which could be different than any of them for all we know.
Again, looking at those new, those new similar gospels to the synoptics that have come up with
pieces here and there, we don't have any way of saying which one's the first version. So yeah,
I would say that that the unplanned coincidence argument could easily be used to say prop up
Thomas as the first version, and these other ones or say that Thomas is equally reliable.
Why wouldn't the divinely ordained canonical versions preserve the true thing that's
conveyed in Thomas via un-designed coincidence? So I agree with that. I agree with that that the
echoes of this thinking have ramifications in any, if you move outside the canon, that could be
uncomfortable for orthodox thinkers. Now as far as Jainism and the nudity with the vines wrapping
around, as this is a unique coincidence that it appears in this material, as far as we're aware,
it looks like a coincidence because we don't know. But the point I wanted to get at is this goes back
to a historical memory based on legends that you will become one with the forest or with the trees
of nature. Is there an account that like somewhere in early Jainism that there's like a miracle where
the person really did become one with nature? I mean, that's sort of what I'm saying. I don't,
I forget when Bakubali is supposed to have lived. You can look him up on Wikipedia. I mean, I apologize,
I don't have all these details, but I'm pretty sure as a historical saint, he's sometime in the
common air. Actually, hold on, let me, I'm going to reduce my screen and I'm just going to check it
now so I don't make a mistake. Okay. I don't blame you. Okay. So he is a legendary figure in Jainism.
Well, okay. So yeah, because he's a legendary figure, we don't know. His historicity, his
like particular period when he would have lived is not, that's why I couldn't remember it because
it's not like a thing. But the sect that regards him as important rises up in the early to middle
part of the medieval period. Right? So I mean, I mean that the developed form of Southern Indian
Jainism, which we associate with like the Digambara sect of Jainism, which is the one that maintains
nudity for male monks to this day. So like in the distant past, Jainism split into the ones that
wear clothes and the ones that don't wear clothes. And the ones that don't wear clothes in like the
900s started making these giant statues of Bahubali, who is a legendary figure. I remember
because the period of origins is like before it was, the stuff was written down. So I am as,
by the way, Jainism woefully understudied in the Western Academy. It is something that has for
as important as it is in the history of religions in India is something that Western academics
and Asian studies scholars in the Western academic settings have not studied enough.
So I don't want to sit here and pretend to be an expert. I studied it as in my master's degree
in London. It was a topic because we, in dealing with Buddhist origins, you have to deal with
Jain origins because they're related. But it is something where there are very few,
like majorly impressive specialists doing work on this stuff. And so yeah.
Okay. So one more thing, just tie it back to the Gospels as we set up front
is in comparing your study of Eastern religions and then looking at Christianity
and the people who are suggesting undesigned coincidences. How does it sound to use a scholar
who's never read her works? Lydia McGrew is the... I've heard them discussed.
Okay. You've heard it discussed, but you never read her books or anything, but you have the idea
based on the conversations that have come up. And how does it sound when someone tries to say,
hey, we have these four Gospels and there are these undesigned coincidences. And one,
it says the grass is green. The other one talks about its Passover, which would have been summer
or whatever the, you know, like there's some interlocking ideas amongst this literature.
This somehow in their mind, and they'll argue that it crisscrosses. And I recently had a
discussion with an apologist on my channel where they were seeing stuff that I just did not see.
So, is that an example? Did you cite a real example where they say the color of the grass
correlates with the fact that there's a particular seasonal ritual
corresponded to the same point in the narrative into different versions of the thing?
That's something they will cite.
Yeah. I'm sorry. It's not, that's not doing it for me. No, I'm not, I'm not, I'm not getting there
because, you know, yeah, it's true that grass can be colors other than green. Like I have parts of
my yard yard that have brown grass and parts of my heart have green grass. And that's, you know,
and there's less brown and more green in certain seasons, but I am not, I don't see that. I think
you can't nail, that's too big of a window there. You're just talking about something of that level.
Now there might be, if I would have to go read their rigorous book carefully,
there might be more sophisticated examples that are more precise and their way that they're,
but the more precise they are, the less ambiguous they are, the less likely they are to be undesigned.
So the green grass thing, you could say, oh, well, that's no way were they comparing notes there.
That's just a random coincidence. That's undesigned, right?
You could sort of, because it's so vague, it's a little more plausible as a fluke or, you know,
but it also doesn't inform you very much. Because all it's doing is saying that
there's only four seasons in a year. And you guess randomly which season it is,
you're going to be right at least 25% of the time. That's not like, it's not enough to
prove that it's historically reliable because two different texts are both set in winter or
spring, right? That's not, that's like, there's stories set in spring all around the world.
That doesn't mean that they're, so if you move on to one, somebody that's more detailed,
like a coincidence where the details really interlock tightly in a way that's unambiguous,
then you have to say, wow, these authors knew each other's work and the undesigned part becomes
an impossible to prove. It looks very designed because that's how puzzle pieces fit together.
Puzzle pieces fit together by design. Now, what do you do with the contrary or contradictory
evidence in that kind of situation? They'll go, well, you guys keep saying that they're interlocking,
but they contradict. How you can't have both, you know, that's what they'll argue.
But yeah, they're interlocking and they contradict. That's true with all historical sources,
you know, all ancient historical sources interlock and contradict. They have to interlock if they're
to speak together. If they don't interlock, they can't have any kind of, you know, they can't
generate an interpretation in, you know, they harmonize in certain ways and they create discord
in certain ways. There's a reason why these authors wrote different accounts. If they didn't,
if they didn't have reasons to contradict each other, Matthew would never have changed up Mark.
I mean, there are obvious ways that Luke is doing Luke's thing in contrast to, you know,
Luke is making, staking his claims against those of Mark's. And when he does that, he is
being very deliberate and he is doing it with a purpose. He is not writing the same text again.
So the fact that in certain details, he is creating harmonic convergence or puzzle pieces
that interact. And in other details, he's contradicting him. That is absolutely normal.
For someone to say that that is disingenuous or hypocritical, they're not doing responsible
historiography where it is the duty of every interpreter to tease apart those questions.
So to say, where are these details interlocking and why? Where are they contradicting and why?
And it can't just be because they're all reliable or because, you know, they have a single common
truth. There is a different truth that's being aimed for by different authors.
Otherwise, they wouldn't bother to reinvent the wheel, right? Even if they're sharing half of
their beliefs. Thank you so much. I'm not going to live naked public for the rest of my life,
but it does pique my curiosity to want to investigate Eastern religions more to understand
the origin. Right. Ancient atheism is an interesting topic. There were huge, there were lots of
medieval Indian Buddhists who were atheists. Now, Buddhism doesn't have to be atheists. Buddhists can
be theistic or non-theistic depending on their individual, like Buddhism is very broad. There
were major atheistic Buddhist schools in medieval India that were involved in religious debates
and stuff like that. So people on your channel are interested in the history of atheism. It is one of
the Indian religion and the history of atheism are both topics that would be
interesting to your audience. What I really enjoyed too is how you kind of painted a picture that
shows the human experience when it comes to the beginning of religions and their development
and their continued, I'm going to call them, religions are rolling religions. Even the most
fundamentalist versions of them eventually conform to new ideas and have to adapt. And so
I think it's really interesting using kind of a heuristic comparison and looking at the Eastern
religions, looking at these Judeo-Christian religions and seeing so much overlap in how
people who are probably not communicating till later naturally as humans do things similar.
It's like a common thing that we do and it makes me look and go, I see Christianity looks very much
in many ways, even though there's philosophical differences, they have asceticism in common,
which might stem from, like you said, back in the third, fourth century when Hellenism comes in
and there's some brushing of shoulders in the Greek world that we now see in Christianity and the
various philosophies that come down and influence Christians. But it's still, even then, that would
be so distant, there's so much overlap in similar ways and differences, but it looks very human,
is what I'm saying. The whole, the whole enterprise looks very human. And so when people try to bolster
Christianity on this pedestal, the apologists, they are doing so when they're really not aware
and looking at the whole scope of religion as a human thing. That's how I see it.
I, it's a real pleasure to be here again today and I'll come back and talk with you anytime about
whatever you want to talk about.
Joe, thank you so much. Everybody, go check out the links in the description. You can go and check
out his article. And until next time.
Oh, it's not my article. It's Lavalli's article, but it's related to this topic. So yeah, yeah.
We should link something though for, for me.
I'll actually, I do have, I have an article that I wrote that deals with east-west connections
and the history of medieval Christianity. So that's probably the closest to this topic.
So I'll, I'll, I'll provide Derek with the link to my work too.
Check it out. Thank you so much. And never forget, we are MythFission.
