Who is your daddy? And what does he do? Today I talked to Paula Fredrickson specifically about
these ethne, the goyim, those who are not Israel. And we want to talk about how is Paul utilizing
adoption and bringing them into the family of God. Remember, the gods run in the veins in the blood.
So how do you get someone who doesn't have the blood to become children or adopted children
of your God, or even the ancestor Abraham? Dr. Fredrickson, or might I call you Paula?
Please. We are going to be discussing the ethne, the gentiles, the goyim, as I like to discuss this
topic because it's been an interesting one trying to understand how this changed after
reading Adi Afir, Ishae Rosen's book, goyim, listening to Christine Hayes over the years,
you can tell I love you all. I'm like, yes, Paula Fredrickson, I'm here in person.
So I'm going to read my question because if I don't, I'll butcher something.
Who are the ethne? Paul refers to in his letters. And does Paul mean the same thing when he contrasts
Greeks with Jews in Romans 2, 9 through 12? You're right. Goyim is the original Hebrew word.
And when God speaks to Abraham, he says that you will be a Goi Gadol. I will make you a great
nation. So Goi doesn't always have to refer to a non-Israelite, a non-Jew. But when it's in the
plural and it's contrasted with Israel, then it means non-Jewish nations. And the first mention
of the word Goyim in the Hebrew Bible is the Table of Nations in Genesis 10, where it talks about
the progeny of Noah, ultimately arriving at 70 nations divided by their families and their lands,
by their languages, and in their tribes. And so there are 70 nations. And then out of the tree
descended from one branch, God will scoop Abraham and his family out and start with the experiment
of the people of Israel. Two more chapters down in Genesis 12. So what you have is the
non-Jewish nations, which is the majority of humanity, correct. And then that word comes into
Greek as ethne. Flash forward a few millennia to English. You have choices when you translate
ethne. You have nations, which is one of the ways to do it, perfectly legitimate translation. You
have Gentiles, which I have problems with. And you have pagans, which is a fourth century
term of derogation made up by fourth century Christians to distinguish, Gentile Christians,
to distinguish themselves from people who are still traditionalists in the Mediterranean soup
of religions. So the reason I have problems with Gentiles, with Paul, and the reason I
call my book Paul the Pagans Apostle, is because in antiquity, there is no such thing as a religion
neutral ethnicity. I mean, if you're a member of any ethnic group, you have your own gods.
And so in Paul's generation, if you weren't a Jew, then you were one of the ethne, which means you had
your own gods. And it's Paul who's beginning to create a new population. But it's a population that
was anticipated in the classical prophets. And in all those Jewish apocalyptic writings we have
between minus 200 and plus 200, or Tobit, the Sybilian oracles, where you have the nations
who are pagan, smashing their idols and turning to worship the God of Israel. So Gentile seems
like a religion neutral category, but it's a false conceptualization of where the energy is coming
from, I think, for Paul's mission and the energy is coming from for these prophetic declarations
and Jewish tradition that everybody is going to get with the program and worship the God of Israel
at the end of time. I'm glad you painted that picture. So Paul has the table of nations in mind,
do you think? I think so because of Romans 11, 25, 26, where he talks about the fullness of the nations
and all Israel. And I don't think those are just loose chains he's throwing around. The
fullness of the nations means something. It means 70 nations. That's the full number
of the nations. That's a reference, I think, back to Genesis 10, which means that he's not
thinking with Abraham anymore. He's thinking with Noah as the prime patriarch of humanity.
That's what Genesis 10 is about. And when he says all Israel, that's not just a hand wave he's
talking about. That's part of the mythos of all 12 tribes. So he's doing eschatological arithmetic
in Romans 11, 70 nations plus 12 tribes, the fullness of the Gentiles, the fullness of the
pagans, and all Israel. Of course, the pagans are going to be ex-pagans.
Right. I've looked at Romans 11, 25 through 26, and some will suggest that there's a reference to
Genesis 49, I think, where Ephraim and Manasseh are mentioned. And he says that you will be a
multitude of nations referring to Ephraim or something like this. But you would say this
probably goes back to Genesis 10, not to Genesis 49. It's a bigger idea. Okay. And Paul is thinking
big. Paul thinks big. Paul's god thinks big. Right. This is something we're going to have
to keep diving into because I wonder if Paul's, along with some of these earlier writings, as
Cattel Berthelow talks about this transition in Jewish thought, even the rabbis were debating on
how converts or non-Israelites could say the prayer of Deuteronomy 26, 3, the God of our fathers. Oh,
no, you can't. The God of your fathers, but not ours. And then one guy goes, Abraham's name
means the God of multitude of Goyim. He's a Goyim. Abraham is his father. He could say it too. And
whoa, this is revolutionary. So it makes me think of like Nohah concepts and things like that. Is
Paul thinking like that? Nohah traditions are rabbinic. Right. And rabbis aren't. Rabbinic
Judaism doesn't, I think, exist the way we think of rabbinic Judaism in the first century. So I
think what we have is ideas of the Nohah kite laws are not eschatological ideas. The Nohah kite
laws is what would a good pagan look like? And for what scriptural reasons? Well, they wouldn't
do cruelty to animals. They'd have just law courts. They wouldn't worship idols, which means
it's a wistful thinking kind of category because that's what everybody else is doing.
So yes, and yet there's some kind of Nohah kite law ishness glimmering
in these first century documents as well. That's what really made me think. All right,
we'll go through a few pericope. Okay. Romans two, nine through 12, there will be a tribulation and
distress for every human soul who does evil, the Jew first and also the Greek. But glory and honor
and peace for everyone who does good, the Jew first and also the Greek. For God shows no partiality,
for as many as have sinned without the law will also perish without the law. And as many as have
sinned in the law will be judged by the law. So I know you could go anywhere with this,
to be honest, because when you go to the law stuff, or you could go into this Jew and Greek
dichotomy, we interviewed Christopher D. Stanley on Paul and to get his thoughts. And he thinks,
maybe you think he's on to something here, that at this point, the ethne, it was a noble thing to
consider oneself a Greek. So Paul might be writing to these people who like to self-identify as Greeks,
even though they're kind of a category of nations. Why do you think Paul uses the term Greek?
Because he's a Greek speaker. And I think when he says he's going in a semicircle right from
Jerusalem as far around as the Lyricum, in Jewish imagination, and this is James Scott's work on
the nations, the human map is divided up into three zones. And the Greek speakers, the sons of
Japheth, are Paul's mission field, if we can use that in anachronistic language. So he's talking
to Greeks. He's talking to Greek speakers, and he's doing an arc that covers that upper part of
the Mediterranean from Jerusalem through Asia Minor. I mean, he's not thinking of China and
India. That'll be the Gospel of Thomas, you know, the second century. So he's speaking to Greeks,
but he also, he says in, I think it's Romans 116, both Greeks and barbarians. So he's cracking the
terminology of the ethnic open there that there are, which, and he's thinking Greekly there.
That's not a Jewish division. That's a Greek division. And when he talks about adoption,
he's thinking with Roman legal. I mean, Paul is a Roman, Paul is a Greek, and Paul is
an apocalyptic eschatological Jew. I love this. It's got multiple personality disorder. It all
works. Yeah, I was talking to a friend of mine, Jeffrey Tripp, a PhD, who's talking about how a
father would, even though they would have the child, they couldn't know with absolute certainty
that it's theirs. So there was like this traditional adoption act or not even adoption, but like,
like, you are my son, once they're born, then you're like, right, the baby is called a fetus
until it's lifted up by the father. So there, which is the social birth of the person, right, as, as
being recognized by the, it's, it's a patriarchal society. It's a Roman culture is a guy thing,
not like current American culture at all. But Paul's language of adoption here.
Well, he's got to get, he's thinking with a Mediterranean, and this is a pan Mediterranean.
It's a Jewish idea. It's a pagan idea that gods and humans form family groups. And if the,
if the pagans are being brought in to Israel's redemption, which they are according to Paul,
and he's working toward that, they've got to be adopted into the family. So these, when these,
when the spirit inflates these people so that they're moved to call Abba, they're not calling
Abraham Abba father, they're calling God father. So he has this, he rewrites their genealogy
through Abraham to get them into the family. But it's, it's the family connections are because
Israel's God son too, according to Romans nine, four, right, they have the sonship.
Yeah. And he's kind of saying these things that belong to Israel are actually
being gifted because he's grafting in the Gentiles to those who are ethnic.
Well, there's, there's an interesting difference there because when he lists the prerogatives of
and privileges of Israel and Romans nine, four through five, it's God who has adopted
Israel, which is true when you read Exodus, right? And it is through Jesus and Abraham
that the Gentiles are adopted. So the adoption of the, the nations happens in Paul's lifetime.
The adoption of Israel happened back in the day. So it's, it's two different adoption tracks. The
reason why both are adopted is because the Jewish God doesn't have sexual relations with human beings
the way Greek gods do. You can be a son of God in a pagan context and literally be descended from
Venus or descended from Zeus, like Alexander the Great was, or descended from Heracles,
the way the Spartans were, but you don't have a genealogical connection with Israel's God. You
have a covenantal adoption with Israel's God, both for the Jews and then miraculously through the
spirit of Christ to Abraham in the final days. Galatians three. So I am telling you, am I right
or wrong? In Galatians three, when Paul says that it is not through seeds plural, and I'm just trying
to understand Paul, whether you believe this is true or not is like irrelevant to the point
in the beginning. He says it's not through the seeds. It's not to many plural, but to one,
and that is Christ. So if my thinking is correct here, if you're found in Christ, if you believe
in Christ, Christ crucified as Paul's, and obviously don't go down that circumcision route,
right? Because those people make me mad, says Paul. Exactly. And he trash talks them all through
his epistles. But it makes me think like he is making them Abraham's seed through the
Pneuma of Christ in Galatians three. So there's this adoption that's taken place by the spirit of
God. Not fleshly, but Catepneuma, right? Spirit, literally the spirit and how this is where
Bassana's work on spirit possession is such an interesting way to think about this. I mean,
they literally had spirit and Charles Angerbird Pedestrian. This is where the Stoicism stuff
comes in. Spirit is not immaterial. Right. You actually have the spirit in you,
which is one of the reasons why the Ecclesia is the Soma, is the body of Christ, because it's
literally has Christ's spirit in it. And that's what affects the adoption. Flesh won't do it,
says Paul, and flesh is the site of circumcision. And it's when he's arguing against the circumcisers,
he's not arguing against straight up Jews. He's arguing against Jews in Christ, who I think
by the year 50, and they've been proclaiming the imminent return of Jesus now for 20 years,
it's tremendously socially destabilizing to have ex-pagan pagans in town. It's a homeland security
issue. And so the circumcisers are trying to socially stabilize this group, and if they become
what we call converts to Judaism, which is something pagan culture says Jews do. If you're
circumcised, you give your loyalty to the law of Moses. Juvenile says this. Tacitus doesn't like it.
Diocasius mentions it, that circumcision is what makes a non-Jew into a Jew. And Paul's saying,
no, we have to have the nations have to remain the nations. Israel has to remain Israel. That
means the circumcision thing, which my rivals are saying is dead wrong. And they're dogs and
mutilators of the flesh anyway. He has a bad temper. Yeah. Oh yeah. That's what makes me think
these aren't epistolary fictions. I've heard people try to act like, well, we don't know that Paul
existed. We don't even think Paul existed. There's people out there that think that, by the way. I
know that academics don't. This is getting weirder and weirder. Yeah. There's people who try to say,
well, we don't know if Paul existed. And it's almost like they expect there to be like, we need
to have his actual corpse in order to know he existed. I'm reading these letters. This is like,
Homer didn't write Homer. There was another guy in the back room whose name was also Homer, who
goes back and back. Yeah. Or if you go to like the Dutch radicals and assume that like,
somehow it's later or there are some people who've thought maybe Marcian or later Marcianites
are writing in the name of Paul, dealing with disputes in the second century acting like it's
Paul's like, we talked about earlier, like, you have to go to this much more complicated explanation
than I, Paul and Apostle of Christ. It's like slave of Jesus Christ, right? Right. Slave too. Yeah.
Right. Continuing the Perikope's Matthew 632. Therefore, all these the Gentiles seek for your
Heavenly Father knows that you need all of them. Luke 12 30. Therefore, these things is just a
synoptic comparison. All the nations of the world seek and your Father knows that you need them.
All the nations. So, MSS, the Gentiles, does the phrase all nations or light of nations include
the nation of Israel in its scope? Usually, it's said in distinction to Israel. And again, given
the importance of, I think, apocalyptic eschatology is as understanding the soup that this movement
will emerge from. I think the nations are the non-Jewish nations for the most part. And because
Israel has a special role to play in this drama of redemption that this particular movement is
taking in a particular direction. That makes sense to me. I mean, late Second Temple Judaism, it's like
almost always, ethnic plural refers to everybody other than. And so that's a good point. Matthew
21 13, Mark 11 17 and Luke 19 46. There seems to be a synoptic comparison here. And I have the
pericopee coming from Isaiah 56 7 in Mark, but it says, he says to them, it is written, my house
shall be called a house of prayer, but you make it a den of robbers. Mark 11 17. And he was teaching
them and was saying to them, it is not written. It is, is it not written? Sorry, got it backwards.
My house shall be called a house of prayer for all the nations. But you have made it a den of
robbers. And then Luke 1946 saying to them, it is written, my house shall be a house of prayer,
but you made it a den of robbers. This, all the nations here. Yeah. Is all the nations. And of
course, Herod's Temple, which was designed like the equivalent of an airport, it was designed for a
lot of foot traffic. And the largest courtyard was courtyard of the nations. So it was already a house
of prayer for the nations because when starting the Second Temple period in the Hellenistic
period, non-Jews were not allowed to themselves offer sacrifices. They, they could do it in the
Old Testament, but, but not later. And so, but you, when you went to any God's temple, I mean,
the polite thing to do is pray. So I think all the nations means all the, all the pagans will
acknowledge God. And that verse that it comes from in Isaiah goes on to say that they will
sacrifice in the temple the very next sense is that, and their, and their offerings will be
accepted. So it's not an anti-sacrifice line, which it has been made into in Christian scholarship.
To be very specific here, you go into this in your book, get her book, Paul the Pagan's Apostle.
And your other books do mention this, I'm sure I'm passing. I think I recall you, this one in the,
when Christians were Jews. But you talk about the temple and what you're describing here,
where the court of the Gentiles, they had plaques in Latin and Greek that warn these nations to
not go beyond this point for the risk of being killed. They will put you to death. Right. Now,
they weren't plastered everywhere. They were plastered at the, the TSA stop between the court
of the nations and the court of the women at a low ballast rod around that. And that's where
they were posted. And it's alof, somebody who's an alof, fulus and of another tribe,
or an alogen, Josephus says it several different ways, but men of another tribe, men of another
people group. Not Israelites. Not non-Israelite, right. Don't go, or non-Jews, I mean, right.
Don't go past this point. Yeah, which means that they were all over the place before that point,
which also lets you know that most Jews weren't obsessed with the idea of Gentile impurity.
Or they, because Jews have to be, anybody who's offering to any God in Mediterranean antiquity
has to be in a state of purity. If you're going to approach that zone of interactivity between
divinity and humanity, you have to be in a state of purity. Jews have to cut through the court of
the nations. If it's anything like Ben-Gurion Airport, they were bumping into everybody.
So they're not worried about contracting impurity as a contagious condition. So, I mean,
I thought I'd bring that up. That was a good point. And I say that because there's some people who
think that the Gentiles might be literal Israelites. And I'm like, every Gentile that would go to the
temple had to be Israel. Anyway, more weird stuff. Isaiah 66, 18 through 19. And I understand their
works and their reasonings. I'm coming to gather all the nations and tongues, and they shall come
and shall see my glory. And I will leave signs upon them. And from them I will send forth those who
are saved to the nations, to Tharsis and Faud and Laud and Mosok and Thobel and to Greece and to the
islands far away. Those who have not heard my name or seen my glory, and they shall declare my glory
among the nations. Despite the fact that Paul refers to Christians as ethne, and it's an
achronistic probably to use the term Christians, but you get Christ followers. There are other
passages where he seems to suggest that Christ followers were ethne. In the past tense, before
they turned to the God of Israel, can you explain this? I don't even understand the question. So it's
like that 1 Corinthians 12, 1 through 2. I do not want you to be uninformed. You know that when you,
or you Gentiles, were led astray to idols that were mute. Therefore, I want you to understand that no
one speaking by the Spirit of God says, let Jesus be accursed and no one can say Jesus is Lord
except the Holy Spirit. So there's times where Paul is referring to his Gentiles like you talk about
in your book and still calls them Gentiles, but when you were Gentiles. That's the only place he
uses the past tense. When he's addressing the Christ following communities in Rome, he says,
I've been designated apostle to the ethne, including you. And when he's ramping up in
Romans 11, he says, now I'm talking to you ethne. And these are Christ followers,
so he's still calling them ethne because that's what they are. They're non-Jews.
Well, okay, just one more pericope to get your thoughts before we wrap things up.
Okay. Acts 1344-48 on the next Sabbath, almost the whole city came together to hear the word of
the Lord. But when the Jews saw the crowds, they were filled with jealousy and they began to contradict
what Paul was saying by reviling him. Both Paul and Barnabas replied courageously, it was necessary
that the word of God be spoken first to you, since you thrust it aside and judge yourselves
unworthy of eternal life. Behold, we are turning to the Gentiles as the English renders it. For
this is what the Lord has commanded us. I have appointed you to be the light of nations, to
bring salvation to the ends of the earth. When the Gentiles heard this, they were glad and praised
the word of the Lord. And as many as had been destined for eternal life became believers.
Yeah. What's your question? I mean, what do you, so this is just in line with everything we're
saying? Well, we'll notice they're quoting a Jewish text to make the point. Right. That's part of
Jewishness, that expectation of the nations being part of Israel's redemption. Israel's God thinks
big and Jews thought big about Israel's God. And you get people with a very narrow, narrow
theology of salvation with the Dead Sea Scrolls, but they're outliers. I mean, that's what makes
them so. Like Ezra and Nile, too, they're extremes, they're in a fulcrum. Well, they're not, they're,
Ezra's really talking about current social interactions. He's not talking about redemption at
the end. Religion and antiquity is ancestral custom. It's not about salvation. It's about
how you live your life if you're Athenian or if you're Spartan or if you're Alexandrian or if you're
Israelite. And it's about, and the reason you do that is to stay on your God's good side. And this
is what God says all the time in the Hebrew scriptures, right? Do this so you will live long
in the land. There's nothing about redemption. The idea of redemption as some kind of post-mortem
happy place is something that's specific to mystery cults. It's specific to forms of Greek
philosophy. And it is specific to apocalyptic eschatology. That's why you have traditions about
the resurrection of the dead. But it's, but the goal of what we think we are calling religion
is not salvation. It's about how you live. Thank you so much for taking us through the Athene.
I feel like the picture is just, you painted a beautiful picture that's really simple to
understand. And I hope people watching this will walk away and learn a thing or two here. So thank
you. Okay. Thank you to those who contributed in the GoFundMe on making this trip possible for
these 12 recordings with Paula Fredrickson. I want to give a special shout out to you. Your names
are chiseled in history. I also want to thank everybody who has become a patron of MythVision,
making stuff like this possible, taking academic work that is hiding behind all of these
scholarships, all of these colleges, and making it public, public knowledge for everybody to learn.
