as far as Plato and this esoteric, rooted idea,
how much impact did the philosophy of that have
on, let's say, Paul?
Paul, it's hard to say.
I mean, he's a bit of an enigma
in terms of his educational background.
He makes a lot of claims about his educational background,
but one doubts them, I do at least,
that he really set up the field of Gomel or whatever.
It's so difficult to tease out.
And I've been asked this question before
about to what degree do we think Paul is educated
in both Jewish classical education
that a rabbi would have gotten at that time,
but also Greek education?
Because it's clear that he wants to put forward
that he has some education, right?
The famous debate in Acts,
where he debates the stoic and Epicurean philosophers
and he says, no, the unknown God is in fact the God.
So it's clear that the text of Acts wants you to believe
that Paul has this education.
But when I read through the letters that we think are Paul,
the seven letters that we think really were written by,
and there's debate still about
if all those seven are really written by him,
I don't see a highly trained philosophical mind.
I see someone, and the tools he would have had access to
would have been stoicism, Platonism,
specifically a system of thought we now call middle Platonism.
People like Numenius and things like this.
And when I read Numenius or when I read people
from the middle Platonic period,
Phylo, something quasi like Phylo,
they were both ish, contemporary ish.
I don't see that in Paul.
And what I see in Paul as a very confused man,
and I can mean confused in the best possible way,
in the sense that he's had some incredible,
powerful vision, right?
And he has to make sense of it.
And what I see in those letters
is him trying to basically build a ship at sea,
building this theology and testing out ideas,
seeing what works and what doesn't.
I often say that, look, you can see in the,
for me in the New Testament,
you can see different theories of salvation.
It's not like there's even one worked out theory.
There's the ransom theory,
and then the ransom theory is abandoned
for this atonement theory,
and the atonement theory has to kind of get jiggered around
and make it work.
So what I see in Paul is a kind of theological amateur
doing a really ingenious thing.
And that's this shift away from the messiah
that redeems the world politically to a messiah
that fixes a spiritual problem that began with Adam.
So he sort of moved the goalpost of messiah
in a really ingenious way,
but I don't see any need, at least for Paul,
to have incorporated a bunch of middle platonic thought
to make that happen.
Now, that's completely to be contrasted
with someone like Justin Martyr,
or Valentinas, founder of Valentinian mysticism,
where, or Irenaeus, for that matter,
Irenaeus, Justin Martyr, or Valentinus,
they rely heavily on middle Platonism
and to make their systems work.
And there I see where Christianity really gets
at sort of intellectual sea legs.
And of course, and I've made this argument before,
that the Trinity is unimaginable without,
in fact, how we consider the Trinity,
the crowning jewel of Greek philosophy.
You have to bring to bear Platonism,
Aristotelianism, Stoicism,
the whole McGillip to make the Trinity work,
to make it coherently, the Trinitarian economics work.
And so I would say that you don't see
the intellectual explosion in Christianity,
at least not for me, until the second century.
It's then, I think, that when that really gets going,
but I don't see it in Paul, he's genius,
but he's not a genius that's informed
by the kind of conversations happening
in middle Platonism.
Does it sound like he knows something,
levels of heaven, 1 Corinthians 15,
like different bodies with different flesh.
It sounds like he knows something,
but like you're saying, knowing something,
plenty of people knew something.
Right.
You're saying there's a level that he's not quite at
with these other people who really make the golden standard,
something like, oh, this is a real thinker, okay.
And I think that the, for instance,
that example in Corinthians, right,
where he's caught up to the third heaven,
which is interesting because he says he knows a guy.
And of course, it's probably him.
I love, I know a guy.
Like, yeah, I know a guy who does drugs.
Oh, yeah.
You know a guy, Paul.
Yeah.
Yeah, I know that guy too.
And so, yeah, that moment in Corinthians,
where he says he was caught up to the third heaven,
you may know this, and the audience may know it as well,
that that's probably a reference to a form of Jewish
as a terrorism called Merkava mysticism
that existed at that time, for which we have texts.
We have actually a substantial amount of literature
that survived in which we have depictions
and descriptions of the rabbis.
And there's a famous story in the Talmud
that recounts this as well,
where the rabbis are actually descending
into the palaces of God,
and then describing these palaces
until they enter into the private throne room of God,
and they're given a glimpse of the body of God.
And they describe God,
the body parts of God,
but not only the body parts of God,
but the dimensions of God's body,
the literal measurements between God's eyebrows
or the length of God's beard.
And this literature is called the Shio-Koma literature.
I'm not, it survives.
Wow.
We still have it.
God's beard is 14,000 feet long or so, as you'd imagine.
Yeah, yeah.
That makes sense, you know what I mean?
That makes total sense.
I'm working on mine, I'm still liking it.
But this Merkeva literature,
we know was being practiced.
We have references to it in the Talmud.
We have literature that survived.
It was written by the people
who did this form of mysticism.
But of course it was never public, right?
It was always a secret thing that these rabbis did.
But that weird oblique reference to Paul actually tells me
that he may have been part of those circles of folks
doing this kind of mystical enterprise.
And unsurprisingly, if he's having visions
of descending into the throne of the throne room of God
or into the Merkeva, the Hechelot of the divine,
it's not surprising that he's gonna have other kinds
of visions as well and the vision he had of Jesus
famously may have been emergent
from this Merkeva mysticism.
Yeah, things that are unlawful to say he talks about.
And it makes me wonder with his Torah ideas
that it's like maybe he's envisioning something
that also fits his program with Gentiles quite well
with that money.
It's hard to know because people go,
oh, he's a con man and then others go,
no, he's just a lunatic, nutcase religious guy.
And it's like, no, he might be both
or he might have a little both tendencies.
I don't know.
Yeah, I don't think either actually.
I don't see him as a con man or as a unstable person.
Cause I think that unstable people would not be able
to do what he did,
which is probably the greatest marketing campaign
of an idea ever.
And he held together communities.
I've seen mentally unstable people,
they're not holding themselves together,
much less entire communities of people
all the way through Asia Minor.
So one, I just...
Well, I'm thinking like a Jim Jonesy type of like a...
It could be.
I mean, Jim Jones was highly unstable toward the end,
especially when he got into all the meth,
but that's what never went.
I know a guy who once did meth and...
He did meth and founded a community in Guyana,
once sideways.
Yeah, I don't see Paul as unstable.
I see him as a kind of genius
who's coming to grips with something that broke his mind.
And he's trying to put it back together
and he's trying to put it back together
in a way that he thinks is gonna make sense for everybody.
Cause I think that the vision he had
was a vision of radical spiritual inclusion.
And on the one hand, people, you know...
Yeah, I just don't buy the con man thing.
And also I just think that James in the community
back in Jerusalem had every reason to doubt this dude.
He didn't know Jesus.
He has this vision and vanishes for some amount of time.
And then he kind of shows up
and tells everyone how to run the show.
And I can imagine the people that knew Jesus being like,
what the hell do you know?
Who are you?
You're some guy.
So yeah, I mean, I don't know.
I've never gotten the con man argument.
And again, there's some people that wanna say,
oh, we twist the Hebrew Bible to get what he wants.
I'm like, have you read the Mishnah?
Have you read the Talmud?
Who didn't do that?
