I lived with the struggle of dissonance for a long time, and when the message came to
me and struck me, Matt, that there's a Heavenly Father who will never let me down.
And He has always loved me for eternity past to eternity future.
You can see how I'm getting teary-eyed now.
When I heard that message, I went down to that altar because I believed and it was true
in my heart, and I felt a warmth, a sensational overwhelming warmth in my body, and I knew
that was His revelation in me.
So cognitive dissonance doesn't explain the origins of Christianity?
My comment in response to that would be, good historical practice must account for the maximum
amount of knowable facts, and what you just said does not account for Paul, because Paul
was not grieving over Jesus' death.
He wasn't trying to figure out what was going on there.
He believed Jesus was a failed Messiah and a false prophet, so He's not grieving over
Jesus' death and trying to make sense out of it.
And His argument that if Christ was not raised, we're not going to be raised.
If we're not going to be raised, the Christian life is not worth living.
But Christ was raised, therefore we will be raised.
Therefore the Christian life is worth living.
That argument makes no sense whatsoever unless they truly believe Jesus had been raised from
the dead.
Yeah, this is one of the most common responses that I see from Christian apologists.
It's the one that Mike Lacona, I've seen repeatedly argues that cognitive dissonance
can't explain the origins of belief in the resurrection because of Paul.
And I think the biggest problem that I think that runs into is that Paul wasn't at the
beginning of Christianity.
And so if the question that we're talking about, if the question of cognitive dissonance,
the question that it's trying to address is how belief in the resurrection began, Paul's
conversion has about as much to do with that question as the conversion of Brigham Young
has to do with the origins of Mormonism or the Book of Mormon has about as much to do
with the origins of Christianity as the conversion of Tom Cruise has to do with the origins of
Scientology, which is to say none at all.
I mean, in both of those cases, I mean, especially with Brigham Young, I think it's questionable
whether Mormonism would have thrived, would have succeeded without Brigham Young and his
incredible organizational impact that he had.
And I think in the same way, when we're talking about Paul, what we're really talking about
is the success of Christianity.
And I think it's really questionable whether Christianity would have succeeded if it wasn't
for Paul coming on board.
His influence is, you know, incomparable.
But Paul's conversion has nothing to do with the origins of Christianity.
He was already coming into something into a belief that existed prior to his conversion.
And so that's the first thing that I would say.
The second thing, though, is that I think often apologists overplay how different Paul's
beliefs as an apocalyptic, pharisaical Jew were from the movement that he was opposing.
Christianity, they often say like Paul was diametrically opposed.
He was 160 or 180 degree change from what he believed as a Pharisee to what he came to
believe as a Christian.
And they make the difference as the gap as wide as possible so that it seems more miraculous.
But Christianity, early Christianity was pretty dang close to pharisaical apocalyptic Judaism.
They agreed on a lot of things.
And so, I mean, Paul's early opposition to Christianity was not as much, you know, being
opposed to your polar opposite as being opposed to your cousin.
It was like Baptists versus Presbyterians.
It really was the narcissism of small differences.
So it wasn't that big of a leap for Paul to change his mind and go from pharisaical apocalyptic
Judaism to this other sect that just really tacked on the end that you're expecting has
already begun in the resurrection and the death and resurrection of the Messiah.
But I think that apologists often also underestimate how attractive that belief would be to an
apocalyptic Jew like Paul.
If you believe that the end is just around the corner and for Paul as a pharisaical Jew,
he is hoping that his devotion to Torah will help usher in the end of the age will help
usher in the eschaton.
And he is already dealing with centuries of cumulative dissonance over the problem of
delay.
The Jewish consciousness, eschatological consciousness in the first century AD under Roman occupation,
under Roman oppression is dealing with, I mean, you read the prophetic traditions and
things like Habakkuk and Jeremiah, Daniel, and you get this sense throughout the prophets,
throughout the apocalypses of dissonance of this question of how long, oh Lord, until
you do what you promised, how long until you release the justice that you promised, release
the prosperity, the peace, the exaltation of Israel, if we are your people, why are we
suffering?
That's the question that energizes Paul.
And so he exists with this tension already.
Everybody comes along and they say that end that you're hoping for, that release of justice,
that transformation of all of creation that you're looking for, that vindication has already
begun.
It's already begun.
The Messiah is here and he is risen and he's seated at the right hand of God.
So he is the first fruits of the general resurrection just around the corner.
I mean, if you read 1 Corinthians 15 and the way that Paul talks about the resurrection,
you can see that this is very important to him, not just logically.
It's important to him emotionally.
It's important to him because it establishes that he is in the end times that as an apocalyptic
Pharisee called you, he has always been hoping for, he's been waiting for, and it gives him
that ground to stand on.
And so it resolves dissonance.
So Paul already did have dissonance as an apocalyptic Jew and Christianity.
And the claim that the Messiah has come, he's risen from the dead, helps reduce that dissonance.
So cognitive dissonance does have relevance to Paul, even though in terms of the origins
of Christianity, Paul's conversion is a non-issue.
Just to tag on to what you just said in using kind of some modern examples, plus bringing
up what you're saying, Paul is one of the unique situations of Jews who's actually
having to engage with these Christians.
So you could say, one might go, well, how come all the Pharisees Jews in Palestine weren't
converting by the numbers or it wasn't successful at the end of the day in Palestine?
As we hear it really wasn't at the end of the day.
But how many Jews were engaging Christians on this level?
This is the question we have no way of knowing for sure.
But a modern example, I saw a Twitter post by you pointing out that what we have is,
this is like the modern prison guard who is finding out about the enemy.
In a lot of cases, most prison guards are looking at the inmates, like you villain,
you enemy, you don't, but they have a lot in common.
And if they give them the opportunity to really kind of listen at some point,
a kind of conversion moment can take place on how they perceive that inmate.
And you'll find prison guards who end up sleeping with inmates.
You find prison guards who end up adopting the ideas of inmates.
And this is the subordinate group that is actually causing the influence on the person
who's kind of the dominated one.
So there's some psychological thing that takes place.
And I've mentioned this before, that huge apologetic that they use.
Well, what could explain how this guy could radically convert?
And they use convert, right?
Which Paula loves to say, nice try.
It's not a conversion.
It's more, you could like, you could call it like that,
but that's not the best thing because he's not going from one thing radically to a whole
another thing.
And I've said this, like this guy's already a believing Jew who already has that worldview.
Like he believes angels.
He believes in the resurrection.
He believes it's already there.
You're, in fact, a better miraculous position to claim is like,
how do skeptics who don't believe anything or have a completely like a skeptical
rationalist epistemological framework come to believe angels, demons, ghosts, miracles,
Jesus resurrection in the 21st century.
That's a better case to make than saying Paul, a Jew at this time,
who has to engage these Christians becomes one.
I, you're better off just arguing with modern people.
And like, so it's one of those things that's never baffled me.
And I love your analogy.
It has no dent on the origins of Christ being risen in my, in like any estimation I can see.
It's just what, well, this guy packaged it in such a way and he went on a mission
out here to Gentiles and really made it popular.
He really pushed it in front of more people.
But because he is the one we have the documentation for,
I'm really curious, even in my studies, how much impact did he himself actually have alone?
Because at every location just about, he's engaging opponents.
There are others who are already doing this.
So we may be giving more credit to this guy than he really had.
I'm not so sure.
I mean, sure he's important, but like, how many other players are in this game?
And Paul Frederickson said it, he's late.
Paul's late.
He is not early.
He's already where it's supposed to be ending any moment now.
And the dissonance is just bottlenecking big time.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And I think it's also important to note that for apologists, I mean, especially for the minimal
facts style apologists like Mike Lacona, Paul is really, really, really important because Paul
and 1 Corinthians 15, Paul is the only source that we have that is an eyewitness himself
to the resurrection.
I mean, obviously, apologists like Lacona and Habermas,
you know, would probably believe in the, you know, traditional authorship of Matthew or John.
And so they think that there are other eyewitnesses, but Paul is the only one that they can actually
mount as an argument with skeptics, with critics that, you know, as the minimal facts argument
states, you know, the vast majority of trying to mount an argument based on the,
what the vast majority of scholars, both believers and non-believers, agree on.
And so Paul is where you can go to mount that argument first and foremost.
And but, I mean, so they think that Paul is their best bet as a help to them in their argument.
But it's actually, it actually is more of a harm to them than a help because Paul being the only
eyewitness testimony to a resurrection appearance that we have, Paul's experience, his conversion
experience was not the kind of corporeal experience that we have in the later narratives in the
Gospels in Matthew, Luke and John. Paul's experience explicitly was a visionary experience,
the way he describes it in Galatians as a revelation that took place in him,
the Son of God being revealed in him, the word apocalypsis that he uses is the word for a revelation.
It's the word that is the book of revelation. It's where we get the word apocalypse from.
And so he is explicitly describing a visionary experience. And obviously, you go to the book
of Acts, and you can see that Luke understood the author of Acts understood Paul's experience
as a visionary experience. So there's really no argument to be made for from Paul for the
early experiences of Jesus being corporeal experiences of a bodily resurrection of a
body that had come out of the tomb. And that gives them a lot less to stand on. And so,
I mean, from my perspective, Paul, however you cut the cake is is not a good response to cognitive
dissonance. And it's not a good response. It's if you're going to argue for the bodily resurrection,
Paul isn't the guy for you. That's why canonically, they find ways, as we did in our previous video,
to find a way to kind of make them all speak the same thing. I do like what you said here,
because it brings me to my own personal experience with Jesus. I have never
denied I had an experience to this day that experience is still with me. I went down to
that altar as a young boy who has a hero as a father, a real biological hero on this earth,
who's my father. But the message that I received with the dissonance of my own life, of not
understanding how this is my hero, and he's invincible, and he loves me more than anything in
the world. Yet, he's alcoholic, and he's abusive verbally to me, my brother and my mother. I lived
with the struggle of dissonance for a long time. And when the message came to me and struck me, Matt,
that there's a Heavenly Father who will never let me down. And he has always loved me for eternity
past to eternity future. You can see how I'm getting teary-eyed now. When I heard that message,
I went down to that altar because I believed, and it was true in my heart. And I felt a warmth,
a sensational overwhelming warmth in my body. And I knew that was his revelation in me.
So it became true. So now everything else based on that experience and that message
became that hinge pin that I could say, this is true. I am not going to deny my experience.
So Paul's experience is what I think drove is a driving force. And oftentimes, I think that is
where their validation is coming from, is that experience. But when they start making the historical
claims of what really is the case, and they go to the Gospels and such, there's a whole different
kind of worms. So I'm not denying the experience. And this isn't me mocking or scoffing, but I
legitimately think this guy was dealing with stuff and found a way to handle it. Like I had my
Heavenly Father because of the struggles of my real one on earth that filled that void for me.
And I lived moment to moment in that voice, the inner voice talking, I thought it was God the
whole time. Later on, as I deconverted and started learning more about my brain because I was an
addict who struggled with addiction, started learning more about evolution, how we came to be
as a species, et cetera. I started to realize the two footprints in the sand story, Jesus carried
you in your week, that there was always two footprints. And it was always me. It was me talking
to me. So it was almost like some of those really good movies that at the end of the movie, you
realized that you thought there was someone within the whole time, but he was really like
in a psychosis or something. But it was really just that, that one person, almost like Wilson,
the volleyball and on the island, you know, like he kept him company the whole time,
but it was really just him by himself. That's how I felt about this. So I'd love to see
wherever you want to take this, but I wanted to give a little personal of mine. And I think
that I can relate to Paul in terms of dealing with that struggle, but then everything becomes valid
through that experience. And that's why I think he could say like, Hey, I didn't come to you with
lofty words of wisdom. I didn't come to you all this like super because if that were the case,
anyone else could sway you. They had the power of the Numa experience. And that's what I think
sold them on Jesus. Yeah, I think just jumping off of that, an important point, I think that is
worth addressing that apologists also make in response to cognitive dissonances. They'll say,
Well, you can't psychoanalyze people from the past. And I think that there that can be a valid
response. I think that people often get a little bit trigger happy with trying to psychoanalyze
things that we don't have that kind of access to. But cognitive dissonance is a hypothesis.
And anything that we're dealing with with early Christianity with something that has
the sparse level of data to go on, we are in the practice of making and testing hypotheses. And so
you have to test this hypothesis against other hypotheses. And the problem that apologists often
mount in opposition to an explanation like cognitive dissonance is to say that
this can't explain it because some psychological feature of the apostles. And so they will then
mount their own kind of minor psychoanalysis to say why cognitive dissonance can't work.
And so I think either way you cut the cake, when you're dealing with history, you are dealing with
people and you're dealing with people's motives. And so there is a degree of psychoanalysis that is
inescapable. But I think when talking about Paul specifically, talking about the tensions that Paul
was living with as an apocalyptic Jew, I don't think you have to get into psychoanalysis to be
able to say what his eschatology did for him emotionally and the emotional reality of his
life living under Roman occupation. I mean, these are the realities in the real world and you don't
have to sit Paul on a couch to be able to describe those things. But I also think that there's one
thing that a minimal fact apologist, Gary Habermas, a point that he makes that I actually agree with
and it's in an article that he did with a clinical psychologist where they talk about the
hallucination hypothesis and they say as a criticism of the hallucination hypothesis, they say
that the hallucination hypothesis doesn't work because it's describing a symptom and not a cause.
And this is something that I actually agree with. I think that when you talk about hallucination,
you have to talk about what's causing the hallucination. If you don't think that it's
based in reality, if you think it's based in something subjectively, what is the subjective
driver? What is the subjective engine of that experience? And I think cognitive dissonance
is that engine. But I just wanted to read, and maybe we can close out the video here,
but I wanted to read this section from Carl Jung's study of UFO sightings in the 1950s.
He develops this idea that he calls visionary rumors. And in talking about visionary rumors,
he says, if it is a case of psychological projection, this kind of flurry, this rash of
sightings of UFOs that was taking place in the 1950s, specifically in the United States,
he says, there must be a psychic cause for it. The basis for this kind of rumor is an emotional
tension. And I think it's important to note that he wrote this in like 1958. So it was just around
the same time that Leon Festinger was doing his work on cognitive dissonance. But he speaks of
an emotional tension having its cause in a situation of collective distress or danger
or in a vital psychic need. This condition undoubtedly exists today insofar as the whole
world is suffering under the strain of Roman, of Russian policies, and there's still unpredictable
consequences in the individual too. And think about Paul when listening to this paragraph.
In the individual, such phenomena as abnormal convictions, visions, illusions, etc only occur
when he is suffering from a psychic dissociation. That is, when there is a split between the
conscious attitude and the unconscious contents opposed to it. Precisely because the conscious
mind does not know about them, and is therefore confronted with a situation from which there
seems to be no way out. These strange contents cannot be integrated directly, but seek to express
themselves indirectly, thus giving rise to unexpected and apparently inexplicable opinions,
beliefs, illusions, visions, and so forth. And so that right there, I mean, he speaks of that
inner tension, which is another way of speaking of cognitive dissonance, that dissonance that gives
rise to things that your conscious mind isn't expecting, but is then presented to you as a
way of relieving that tension. And it comes from within, it is a projection, but it's a projection
that your conscious mind isn't aware of. The bottle has been shaken up, you're so filled with
dissonance, so filled with tension that it seeks away in from the unconscious mind. And I think
that the way that Paul speaks consistently, that hypothesis fits the data of Paul's experience.
One last thing on that, you mentioned Russian and the Russia. If you just interchange the word
to Roman occupation, right? Yeah, I saw you did that already. And I'm thinking to myself,
this makes a lot of sense, living under Rome and who knows what might happen. They don't play around,
especially with Jews. Look at what happened with Pontius Pilate. I mean, we have historical
precedents to see, you know, these people are, they got to be careful what they do around these
Romans. So there's a threat, there's a fear, there's a constant what's going to happen. And
there's also this God, what are you going to do? God, what are you going to do? God's got to do
something about this. And in fact, we see this, I think, we not only see this in 4th Ezra,
of a constant cry out, why God, did you let this happen to our temple? But we see this in
Revelation, really big time. But I also, that's why I used my experience to point out like,
I anachronistically am saying it was my father. That wasn't what I thought when I was there.
When I was there, this message of a loving father was the best message I'd ever heard consciously.
Unconsciously, my father is the greatest thing in terms of heroes that can potentially ever be
in my life. There's no other thing that can go higher. So I'm giving you the answer when I explain
that. The thing was, is that's not what I thought when I was there. I wasn't consciously aware of
my dad in that. And I do go with a lot of the scientists who are starting to say, our parents,
our biological mother and father, are huge engines to our worldviews, to what we think,
even in a biological or neurological sense, even before we're born, we're neurologically wired
to be yearning and seeking for our parents. That's why infants cry. They know that the mother will
come to them. And so there's a neurological wiring going on there. But then once they're born,
once they're aware, for four or five years of your life, you're completely dependent on something
other than yourself, another agent that keeps you going. And it satisfies you emotionally,
psychologically. It satisfies you in every aspect, physically, like everything, consciously,
subconsciously, the whole nine. So when mother, you grow to separate yourself from mother,
I cannot think that there isn't something working in the God concept or in the worldviews that we
have that play into that biological evolutionary process. So we just went off track, but it's
relevant, I think, to the bigger picture of what you're suggesting here. And I hope that more people
will engage in cognitive dissonance, theory or hypothesis to understand the origins of what
we might be looking at here in Christianity.
