In the first century, in the Greco-Roman world, there was a god named Asclepius,
and this healing god of the Greco-Roman world would be a place that people who needed to have
healings, whether they had eye problems or they had physical ailments, whatever, they would go
to this god and they would pay a little bit of money and give to this god and in return healings
would come in various forms in various fashions. They were all over the Greco-Roman world. Well,
since Paul is in this very region where there are shrines and temples built to this very god
Asclepius, we discussed the topic of is Paul competing with a healing god against Asclepius,
named Jesus, or what is his thoughts about the pagans in this time that he's talking to these
Gentiles when they needed to have healing or go see a doctor which always was attributed to a divine
being. How did he feel about that? Where did Paul stand on that? In this discussion today,
Dr. Christopher Stanley takes us into that very issue. Be sure to visit a slavestory.com or go
to Amazon and check out his trilogy, Christopher D Stanley and you don't want to miss it.
We are MythVision. Welcome back to MythVision podcast. Special guest today you have never met
and I'm your host, Derek Lambert. We have our guest, Dr. Christopher Stanley joining us here
on MythVision. How are you my friend? Fine, thank you. It's about eight degrees here in western
New York today, so it's nice to be inside. Well, thank you so much for taking the time while you're
hibernating so to speak to join us. I want our audience to understand Dr. Stanley is a
social and religious historian who studies and writes about early Christianity in the Greco-Roman
world. He recently retired as a professor at St. Bonaventure University in western New York.
He holds a PhD from Duke University right down the street from me in early Christianity and a
master of Christian studies in Regent College. He's written or edited six books and dozens of
professional articles on early Christian texts and history and presents papers regularly at
conferences around the world. His academic monographs include Paul and Scripture extending
the conversation, the colonized apostle, Paul in post-colonial eyes, the Hebrew Bible a comparative
approach, arguing with Scripture, the rhetoric of quotation in the letters of Paul, Paul and the
language of Scripture, citation technique in Pauline epistles and contemporary literature.
His trilogy, A Slave Story, is his first work of fiction, which grew out of his historical
research on first century Asia Minor. He's currently writing an academic work or just finished
about healing practices in the Greco-Roman world, a subject that plays a central role in his trilogy.
And with that being said, if you don't mind, Dr. Christopher Stanley, I'm going to do my best
to try calling you Christopher since you asked me to do so. I just want everyone to know.
Chris, that's all. Thank you, Chris. Yes. Okay. I've never been Christopher all my life.
It only appears on the title pages of books. Well, Chris, I wanted to lead into asking about
this latest greatest that you're doing. You just sent it off yesterday to the publisher.
What's it about? What got you into this book as we venture into the topic?
Thank you, Derek. It's nice to be with you and your listeners today. The title of this book is
Paul and Asclepius, the Greco-Roman quest for healing and the mission of Paul. Asclepius was
the Greek god of healing. I would imagine that probably most of us know little or nothing about
him. And yet he was perhaps the most popular god in the ancient world because not only because he
provided a vital service, that is healing, but also he was unlike most of the deities who were
portrayed as rather stern and somewhat awesome. Asclepius was portrayed as a rather friendly
type of character in his statues and images, et cetera. And he was someone who was seen as
caring and compassionate. And interestingly, one thing we might talk about on some other occasion,
he is actually called by many of the same names that Christians have called Jesus. He is
the Savior. He is the Lord. He is the one who is compassionate and merciful and loving
toward his people. And the hymns that are sung to him, of which we have many examples, are things that
you can almost transpose into a Christian church setting in terms of the ways in which he is
honored. The book doesn't actually deal as much with Asclepius,
though definitely he does come and play in a lot of ways. But it's primarily about
where we situate Paul in relation to, as you were mentioning, Greco-Roman healing practices,
the prevalence of sickness in the ancient world. And as you noted, this is a topic I never really
thought about until I started writing these historical novels that are intensely detailed
and immersive, drawing readers into the lived realities of people in first century Asia Minor.
And I had intended that the main character would be sick and dealing with that would be part of the
storyline. But it really wasn't until I, on one of my several trips to Turkey, traveled
around and was traveling with Mark Wilson, who was a fellow scholar and tour leader, etc., in Turkey.
He went around with me and we visited a lot of the different sites I was planning on using.
And I became increasingly aware of the prevalence of sickness in the ancient world and therefore
the widespread availability of various types of healing, including a range of
sacred healing centers in the world of Asia Minor where Paul would have lived and operated.
And I began to see that there was a much broader world here that neither I
nor other New Testament scholars had really taken into account. And so that ended up playing a much
larger role in my novels than I intended. And in the course of it, I began to realize it was a lot
of academic work to be done in this area as well. And so, I mean, just to give you a couple of
examples of the fine detail that I get into, I mean, the book begins with a consideration of
detail, a lot of medical, a lot of drawing on medical historians about what did people actually
get sick from in the ancient world. And, you know, what that's interesting to, for example,
that a number of common diseases that we have today are not evidenced in those days,
so like measles, chicken pox, even syphilis, which is kind of surprising. You would, you know,
you associate that with the military, etc. So what kinds of things did something people suffer from?
And then getting into how they sought to be cured. And I identified, you know, some of, I,
basically, I do a lot on medical anthropology in regard to understanding sickness and healing,
etc. And there's a particular author named Arthur Kleinman, who is very influential in
medical anthropology, who talks about three classes of healers that you can find in most
cultures. He talks about professional healers, folk healers and popular healers. And I really,
really did not find that fit the evidence of the ancient world well. And so I kind of critiqued
what he was doing. And I treat in separate chapters what I call number one home remedies,
the kind of natural, everyday modes of treatment that every culture has that are part of the lore
of the culture. Then secondly, what we, what is somewhat controversially called magical healing
methods, and we can come back and talk about what that would mean is a lot in my book about
magic and magical modes of doing things. And then thirdly, religious healing, which was
very significant, not only asclepius, but lots of other gods who were approached for healing and a
host of ways in which that's done. And then finally, medical approaches, beginning with
Hippocrates and coming forward and things that are at least somewhat closer to what we think of
as medicine today. And one of the central points that I make in this whole first, maybe two-thirds
of the book is that where there's the ancient world of approaching the treatment of sickness
and injury was radically different in ours in this sense, that we essentially assume that medicine
is the go-to. And that other modes of healing, you know, if you want to pray for healing, if you
want to use crystals or, you know, whatever kinds of things people do, those are kind of secondary,
supplementary, not reliable, nothing like that in the ancient world. Medicine was one of, at least
for competing modes of treatment. And so it had no privileged status in the ancient world. But not
only that, there was no, there were no clear lines between these categories. Asclepius, I mean, the
priests, the physicians were, they attributed credit to Asclepius as the patron deity of their
discipline. In many cases, they were priests of Asclepius. They credited Asclepius with their
healing powers. Even the second century Roman physician Galen, who is more a little closer to
what we would think of as secular medicine, approved the wearing of ambulates, the use of
astrology, and a host of dreams, the interpretation of dreams in relation to medical treatment.
And so, you know, all this raised the question that I get into in the last couple of chapters,
if religion, particularly what we might call, quote, pagan religion, unquote, the polytheistic
religion of the Greco-Rome world, was so pervasive and infused all of these areas of religion of
healing. What does that say about Paul and his followers? You know, given Paul's
strong aversion to anything that has to do with worship of other gods,
what would he have thought about using medical treatments that involved either directly or
indirectly something associated with this religious system that he rejected as false?
And so, that's what I explore in the latter chapters. And a lot of fascinating things. I have
to be honest, I learned so much through this whole process. And a lot of what I'm doing is kind of
sharing the results of that learning, primarily with academic readers, you know, fellow scholars.
But the book, when it does come out probably later this year from Bloomsbury, TNT Clark,
in the Library of New Testament series, I think most of it would be accessible to
ordinary readers if people are really interested in, you know, immersing themselves in the history
of that time. There are some kind of methodological conversations in there that they might find a
little boring, like, you know, disputes around whether it's proper to use the term magic or some
of my medical anthropological kinds of things, you know, if they're bored, they could skip over
those parts. But it's not a whole lot of like Greek and Hebrew or those kinds of things in the
book that would be a barrier and obstacle to readers. You know, there's so much you said there,
and I was reading your article that you sent me, of course. That's down in the description. If
you're interested in getting a taste of what he is going to expound much further in his book,
read the articles down in the description of the video. But also, in case anyone's wondering,
before we move on in depth into what Paul might be doing here, everybody can go check out his
books on Amazon. That link is in the description. And Chris, I wanted to say your full name,
Chris, his books are here. And you can go one of the real big ones we're going to eventually get
into is Paul and his usage of the scripture, because that's one of the things that first got me
drawn. And then I realized, whoa, he does a lot more than that. There's a lot that he has covered
and we at MythVision are interested in digging there. So go support what he's doing, get a copy,
educate yourself, and be up to date on what we're going to be discussing here on the channel.
Chris, in this vein, if I may, it's hard for me to call you just by your first name.
I'm so used to being formal. I'll tell you what I tell my students is,
you don't have to call me Dr. Stanley, but if you can't avoid it, that's okay.
I'm so not used to it, but it's cool. I'll try my best and roll with the punches. Paul is living in
a Hellenistic world all through and through. So much so, everywhere he turns, there's a temple
with another false god, another demon, if I could. And maybe I'm going head first into the deep end
here. I don't know, but in your article, going toward the end, there's eight examples of Paul
we're trying to figure out. And for me, I fit in that last category of the last two or three.
I'm not sure where to land on those, but I think that's where I'm thinking.
I'm thinking in that category. And one of the things that was brought up was the food, right?
So you have this Jew who's a believer that the one true Supreme God is Yahweh, his God,
the God of Israel. But at the same time, I've heard people like Paula Fredrickson and other scholars
say that Paul is like other Jews. They're not extreme monotheists. They believe there are
other entities, spirits, daemons, if you will, things like that. But in his worldview, if Yahweh
is on your side, the God of Israel is on your side, then none of that stuff matters because
they have no power. This is what I've understood. And you'll get my thinking as I go. And the audience
is really why I'm trying to elaborate here. Paul is explaining an issue. There's a clear
issue with this audience. It tells you who his audience is when they say, but what about us
eating meat? They've been strangled to these gods. And am I allowed to eat it? Because this is
something that Jews aren't allowed to do. And that's a well-known issue between Jews and Gentiles.
And he's saying, you know what? Go for it. It has no power unless your brother who's weak,
probably meaning they're kind of in the Jewish mindset or they just can't quite get their head
wrapped around this. Then don't do it around them or don't let them know or anything like that.
He's kind of given them the nod. Go for it. But just remember that one God, you worship this God,
the true God. I wondered if that connected in some way to what if my leg is something's wrong?
I cut it wide open or I have to go here. I got a thrombing headache or whatever it might be.
And that's why I refer to you as an expert who's delved into this. I want to say this for our
audience. Chris has gone deep and he admits when there's just not great evidence for something.
That's what real scholars do. So he's going to give us everything he's kind of figured out the best
you can. You've got to get the book to get the full detail. But that's what I appreciate the most
is that you'll go so far and say we just don't know or this is where it seems to be pointing or
whatever and where your stance is. There's my rambling. I just wanted to point it out.
Let me see if I can begin a response by highlighting for your listeners
what elements of the New Testament Paul's letters and looking at to kind of begin to raise these
questions. I think that there's a tendency among a lot of people who are interested in
reading the Bible from a personal faith perspective, primarily looking at the theology of Paul or
what we might call the ethics of Paul. The kind of how do I live type things. And we neglect or
ignore the more personal references in Paul's letters that really in many ways are the most
useful for understanding him as a real living flesh and blood person. And so I think probably
everybody is aware vaguely that if you know anything about Paul that he suffered a lot,
that he went through a lot of physical suffering. So for example, and then Second Corinthians 11,
when he is quote boasting, unquote, about all the things he's endured, he says, you know, in he's,
he talks about how he's how hard he's worked in his labors, comparing himself to these people
we call super apostles. He says, I've had far more imprisonments with countless floggings often
near death. Five times I received from the Jews, the 40 lashes minus one, three times I was beaten
with rods. Once I received the stoning, three times I was shipwrecked for a night in a day and was
adrift at sea, frequent journeys, dangers from rivers, dangers from bandits, dangers from my
own people, dangers from Gentiles, et cetera, et cetera, toil, hardship, many a sleepless night,
hungry and thirsty often without food, cold and naked, et cetera. And also he makes more
elusive references to these things other places. So for example, in First Corinthians chapter four,
when he's kind of mocking way, comparing his, his greatness to that that Corinthians are claiming
for themselves and he actually kind of is again kind of satirical. He talks about, you know, we
are weak, but you are strong, you're holding on, but we're in dispute. And he goes on to say,
to the present hour, we are hungry and thirsty, we're poorly clothed and beaten and homeless,
and we grow weary from the work of our own hands. And when we vile, we bless when persecuted, we endure
when slanted, we speak kindly, we become like the rubbish of the world, the dregs of all things
through this very day. This is First Corinthians four, kind of excerpting a bit from verses eight
to 13. And again, in Second Corinthians, back to there, in chapter six, there's a similar kind
of a catalog of hardships. And I'm going to get to my point here in just a second.
You actually have the text in front of us. Let's see. Actually in Second Corinthians
four, wait a minute. So yeah, for beginning and kind of right after verse seven, verse eight,
we are afflicted in every way, but not crushed, perplexed, but not driven to despair, persecuted,
but not forsaken, struck down, but not destroyed, and always carrying in the body the death of Jesus,
so that the life of Jesus may be also made visible in our bodies. For while we live,
we are always being given up to death for Jesus's sake, so that his life may be manifest in us,
etc. And I got to thinking, that's a lot of suffering. That's a lot of pain. You don't get
beat and end up without being bloodied and having bruises and having all sorts of physical injuries.
Well, what did Paul do about that? Who did he go to to bind him up?
And you think about the hunger and cold and all these things that you think about how prevalent
sickness was in the ancient world. Surely Paul got sick a lot. He refers in Galatians about how
he was in experiencing infirmity when he came to visit him and how
visit them and how caring they were towards him. And there are a couple other places in his letters
also, where in fact, I actually end up arguing in my book, and I don't know that I'm particularly
not new in saying this, that Paul probably suffered from some kind of visible disabilities
as a result of this. He may have had, I mean, it could be something of a disease standpoint.
Some people have thought that the thorn in the flesh he talks about in 2nd Corinthians 12
might be poor eyesight. Arguments have been made that, that's a very interesting article
by, I'll try to think, I have to look it up, but who makes a pretty interesting argument
that the kinds of mystical experiences that Paul reports could be evidence of
frontal lobe epilepsy that could have been caused by being beaten on the head.
You know, so interesting to think about just when we think of those kind of arguments to
realize that Paul really physically suffered in ways that he would have had to obtain care
from some kind of healers in the ancient world. And then we add to that, that his audience is
obviously given the prevalence of sickness and injury in the ancient world, they too,
when before they became Christ followers, had a lifelong experience of using these various kinds
of healthcare that involve directly or indirectly engagement with either with the
polytheistic religious system or with kind of powers that one is seeking to manipulate by
rituals in the category that you might think of as magic. And so, you know, what's Paul going to
do about that? And then you realize Paul never says, not a word in his letters about any of this.
You come over, for example, to Philippians 2 where he talks about Epaphroditus and how he
had almost died. He was extremely ill about something or the other, but God, you know,
God rescued him. And he never says what kind of treatment. But one of the interesting things,
and I'm going to kind of pause a second here, is that not once does he give any evidence of having
been sought or benefited from any of the, what he refers to in 1 Corinthians 12 as the gifts of
healings. In other words, you've got these, depending on how one interprets that passage,
some kind of charismatic healers within the church that, you know, we kind of typically assume
might be whatever, however you explain it, some kind of a supernatural healing abilities.
And yet Paul gives no sign that he ever either tried out or benefited from those
kind of things. And the only place where he refers to any kind of a religious cure is a failure.
When in 2 Corinthians 12, he talks about praying to God three times to take away his
thorn in the flesh. And God says, uh-uh. So, you know, Paul, what did he do? And how did he handle
all this? And how do they make sense out of the fact that he himself doesn't give any sign of
any kind of a, you know, supernatural kind of healing? So let me pause for a moment there and
give you a chance to interact and follow up. Does that keep talking about this all day?
Yeah, no, no, no. I love this. And I'm glad, you know, you gave me the opportunity to just
to poke a few things. Something interesting to note when he mentioned the idea of Paul's eyesight
might be really, really bad is, is just giving people a hint. We don't know this with certainty.
You got to make a tentative case. But Paul says, look it with, it's my writing. Look it with my
big letters, like almost like a blind person is, is trying to look and they're making these large
letters on the page so that you know it's me. Because his audience would know the ones at
least who visited him or heard of him would know Paul. This is how Paul writes because Paul can't
see. And he also says in Galatians four that I refer to, he says, you would have given your,
taken your eyes out and given them to me, which again, people are understood as perhaps
an inclination, a reference that he was, his issue was vision. And interestingly, vision problems are
one of the most heavily documented, I think perhaps even the most documented illness that
people experienced in the ancient world. And among the, at the temples and shrines of Asclepius,
I don't know if you're aware of this, but people who were healed or believed they were healed,
many cases they would donate to the shrine a, a, a votive offering, a usually clay image of the
body part that was cured. So, you know, clay leg or eyes or breasts or whatever. And I, pictures,
images of eyes are the most common kind of votive offerings found in these Asclepius centers. So it
would be reasonable to suppose, especially considering, you know, getting beat upside the
head probably a number of times that vision problems might be something that Paul struggled with.
Oh, and now one more thing. Yeah. In the medical section of the book, I spent a lot of time working
in ancient pharmacological handbooks, that is, referent lists of the drugs, you know, the various
plants and animal things that were used to cure people. And again, eye problems are the most
commonly, the most, the thing for which the most varied, most, the most number and the most varied
prescriptions are offered. Wow. So one more thing I mentioned as you go into this for our audience,
we're talking on like a critical scholar here who's saying we're starting with Paul. So what
typically happens when people get to the Bible is they don't know how to differentiate and start with
what is the earliest evidence we have first and that's Paul. And then you're going into these
other texts because people who are listening to you go, what do you mean? In Luke's book of Acts,
you know, the Acts of the Apostle, all of this stuff gets spelled out and fixed. And then look
at the Gospels, right? These are huge red flag issues. And I know you could rabbitry. I just want
to make one mention. Paul never mentions anything of the healings of Jesus's miraculous life.
There's a lot he doesn't mention his father or his mother. He doesn't mention a lot of different
things, but he doesn't mention this. And a lot of times Paul contradicts Acts. So there's things to
take into consideration as we're starting to get closer to the answers that you're going to mention,
Chris. Yeah. And just to kind of give a heads up, Derek and I talked about doing more of these
sessions. And one other issue that I deal with in my book is these several places in Paul's
letter where he talks about how his preaching was accompanied by, quote, signs and wonders,
unquote, and acts of power and demonstrations of the spirit. And it's often been proposed that
healings and exorcisms are the most likely candidates. He never explains what he means by
those. And that is kind of a whole related topic that we talked about perhaps doing a second video
on did Paul do miracles? And at that point, it becomes the issue of how Paul's letters to the
Book of Acts becomes central. There's really nothing in the Book of Acts about any kind of
non-religious treatments of sickness. In fact, there's virtually nothing in the entire New Testament.
And one of the interesting questions that you just were highlighting is if you got all these
stories, even though the Gospels are not written in Paul's day, you've got these oral traditions
around about Jesus as this healing God. I mean, they believed he was a God at that point in some
way, shape or form. You've got these stories of Jesus as a healing God. Why are you not using
those to kind of say, Hey, come join us, you know, we offer healing. And part of that, I think,
is going to be that Paul didn't experience healing. He didn't have a lot of confidence that
the spirit could work and do healings, but he didn't have any control over it. And therefore,
he couldn't promise people, Hey, come to our group, come to our, you know, come listen to me,
and we're going to be healed of your sickness. And so we can, Derek was asking me to what degree
was he, you know, setting forth as a, to directly compete with the Sclepias. And I was saying that
before we got on here, that I originally thought I was going to, you know, kind of say as many have
that Christianity came forward as a religious, a healing religion directly competing with the
Sclepias. But really, we don't see that until the second century. It's very much there in the
second century. I have a whole chapter in my book where I look at how the church fathers,
second, third, fourth century are dealing with matters of sickness and healing. And, and there,
the church has gotten to a point in terms of size and influence and the arguments with their
Greco-Roman intellectuals, where they do feel they have to offer a direct encounter
with the Sclepias. And interestingly, that's also when the cult of the Sclepias reaches its
pinnacle in the second and third centuries. And so there is definitely this rivalry going on
at the later era, but I just don't see it in the, in the, anywhere in that first century era.
So you started this journey, like where I'm at kind of right now thinking maybe this early
movement is trying to compete and it's trying to solve similar problems, but with this God,
which will protect you from all these other gods. And then you came out with a totally different
conclusion, kind of hoping you would find this competition.
In fact, I should add one other element just to complicate the matter even further.
What I should have said to be more precise is we don't see it in Paul and the authors of the
other epistolatory, epistolary material in the New Testament. We obviously do see in the,
in the book of Acts, you've got the healing, but something we need to maybe step back and ponder
is the Gospels, these are being written during this, at least the latter part of the first
century, depending on what one thinks about authorship and all that. And the Gospel authors
had the freedom to choose what they were going to include or not include, and they included a lot
of healing material. And so it does raise the question of to what degree were they at any rate,
if not directly competing with the Scrapius, at least having it in the background, that,
hey, you got a healing God, we got a healing God, you got a compassionate deity, we got a
compassionate deity. And then if that is what's going on, it still raises these interesting
questions. Well, why was Paul, you know, Paul was earlier. So maybe this is something that arises
even about toward the end of the first century as an issue that they feel more need to address.
And I'm not quite sure what I'd do with that. I think that we just have to be aware there are
different currents within the Christian movement, and perhaps some of the, in some places, some
currents or some authors at any rate, felt they did need to offer something that was more
competitive with the Scrapius and others didn't. I mean, for Paul, hey, the world's going to end
any moment. Why should we be too concerned about the help of these bodies we're suffering in here
now? Because, hey, we're going to get brand new bodies, you know, tomorrow. So I think that I do
talk some about the apocalyptic aspect of that, perhaps feeding into Paul's thinking, and perhaps
by the time the Gospels are being written that he's not, I mean, not a big time gap between Paul
and, you know, Mark or whatever, but still, it does make one wonder. So you're kind of already
giving me a hint now where you ended up going in this, because the apocalyptic thing is going to
play a significant role in his letters, his authentic letters. You even get some hints, even in the
ones that are in the name of Paul, but are most likely not from him. This is clearly, the apocalypse,
I think, is a bigger issue than people give credit for on Paul's mind, which makes him,
as you mentioned to me, more sectarian than cosmopolitan, because he is apocalyptic. And
that begs the question. But you know, an interesting thing, I just want to make one
comment. I'd love to have you continue this. I love to see where your mind goes and why.
In the book, just keep in mind, even if he gives you the answer, you're going to want to get the
book, because it's going to go into extensive detail that you just, you don't really find that
on one stop shop. This is what is great about you, the scholars, you're pulling from various places.
But Dr. Ehrman, I interviewed him just recently, like a week ago, and published it publicly a
couple of days ago or two yesterday. It was yesterday. He mentioned that Paul wrote letters
frequently to a lot of these churches. We only have seven. There's no telling how much he may
have written on that we don't have. We don't really know. But this is what's preserved. And you can
go ahead and probably say goodbye to ever finding one of his opponent's letters. But we can't find
all of his and say goodbye to people who weren't pro Paul, or they were enemies, probably. It makes
me wonder, you know, is there how much, maybe at the end, when you give us your answer, like,
a percentage if possible, and maybe that's not even exact, but can you give us a percentage of how
far you would lean in one direction, rather than the other, for this whole Paul's miracles and
healing? Yeah, what's interesting, you bring up the point about, you know, letters we don't have
in sense, because one of the issues I do grapple with in the in the book, and also in this article
that you mentioned, that I sent to Derek there, and he's making available, is we always have the
question when we're saying, well, Paul didn't talk about this out of the other, recalling that
these are occasional letters, that is, they're written for specific occasions. Paul wasn't
just trying to kind of lay out his ideas in some systematic format. People in 2000 years from now
are going to be reading this. Let me make sure I put everything in this letter. For example,
we would know nothing whatsoever about the kind of charismatic gifts side of things. If it had not
become a subject of controversy in the church of Corinth, and so that kind of peels back some layers
and gives us a little glimpse into something that was at least in that church, and I think probably
in others as well, that was going on, that we just wouldn't have any idea about. And so partly
they're occasional, and partly as you say, we don't have the full, that lots of Paul refers to
letters we don't have, etc. So one of the issues I had to deal with is, okay, well, if he doesn't
talk about healing and what's appropriate and what's not in these letters, well, maybe he talked
about it in some other letters, or maybe he had given such clear and thorough guidance on the
subject when he was with them, that it just never again arose as a subject of controversy.
And my conclusion in that in any way is, I just don't see how that can be the case, because
the kind of change he is calling them to make, and let me put it this way, if he was calling them
to abandon or avoid any of these kinds of healing treatments that had some entanglement with the
Greek and Roman gods, that would have been a radical change. And you know, where does he draw
the line? And why it's hard to imagine he could do it so conclusively, when something is such a
normal and recurring aspect of people's lives, that he would never again come up as an issue for
him to address. I mean, you think about sexuality, you know, that's a parallel area where he's telling
them, you got to behave differently than the people around you, a different set of values, a
different set of practices. Did he just tell them that once? No, I mean, he mentions it in just
about every letter to every church, because he's dealing with something that involves such a radical
change of behavior. But that begs the question, right? That begs this great question you're pointing
out. The end is happening in three days from now, get ready, or in two days or in a week,
you know, he's thinking soon, he's willing to take the time to address these temporal things,
like sexual things, eating matters, etc. I would think healing is on the same level of I'm going
to die if I don't eat. I feel like I'm dying if I don't sleep with my wife or I feel like I'm dying
if I don't, you know, interact with the opposite sex or whatever it might be, your desire is,
especially during these times, it seems like politics of stance is not necessarily the opposite
sex, right? Yeah, right. So all of these things and then healing, like if that's a life threatening
or potentially life threatening thing, this should come up, I would think, and this is,
maybe you're teasing us this whole time, I'm like asking, I'm like, so where does he take a stand on
it? Like, let's just go back to kind of anticipate where I go with this. I lay out a variety of
possible ways of explaining this absence of Paul's talking about it. And I won't get into trying to
lay out the options, but I try to explore every possible, every intellectual possibility for
trying to make sense of this. And where I end up basically is saying is my best guess is that
Paul basically, the reason we don't hear him talking about it is because he didn't make a big
issue of it, that he didn't see a problem with most of this system. And here I would draw again,
come back to the thing you brought up earlier, I spend more time in the book about the analogy
with 1 Corinthians 8 and 10, where he deals with the issue of meat that has been sacrificed to
pagan deities. Your listeners may or may not be aware that virtually all the meat you could buy
in the ancient world had been richly slaughtered to a pagan god. And it was quite common that
meat would be distributed for free at festivals after the sacrifices. And so one of the kind of
issue behind what Paul is dealing with here is that rich people could eat meat whenever they
wanted. But for the great massive people, I mean, hardly any in the Roman world, you had this tiny
little group of wealthy people and then some kind of retainers. And the vast majority of people,
95% plus, lived on the edge of survival, particularly in the rural areas, there are one bad crop year
away from starvation. And so in this world, the poor people, the lower class in the city,
really didn't eat meat very often. And the main times that they ate meat was when it was given
to them for free at these festivals. And so there's this strong association in their minds between
eating meat and sacrificing involvement with worshiping, particularly the patron deity of
the city or something like that. And so when Paul is having this controversy that he's having to deal
with, to some degree, it's a class conflict as much as it is a religious issue. That is,
the people at the top, they have no problem with eating meat. The rest of the people,
if they're taking seriously what Paul is saying about there's only one god and you shouldn't
be involved in idolatry, which by the way is a radical, radical step for people to make. And I
deal with that in the book, we could talk about that if you want to. They are saying, okay, hey,
if we're going to really make this step, we're going to do this, we're going to avoid all this.
I mean, we're going to be radical, we're going to be hanging. And so, yeah, we're not going to eat
that meat anymore. And Paul is saying, hey, you know, there's only one god. They're not real.
There's nothing, you know, magical about this meat. It doesn't somehow get infused with some kind
of divine substance or something. Just eat it and don't ask questions. And so, as you said,
unless it's going to cause someone, some other fellow believer to think that you that worshiping
these other gods is okay. And in that case, you shouldn't do it. And so I, you know, I've drawn
that as an analogy, I think is helpful to suggest that I think if somebody were to ask Paul about
various kinds of healing practices, I give you some examples of the kinds of things, but well,
for example, amulets, an amulet is a substance that could be just plant material, it could be an
animal part, it could be a ring, a carved gem or necklace, depending on what you could afford,
that would be worn either like around the neck to protect from evil spirits, or it could be worn
attached to a particular part of the body that is suffering. And it is intended either to protect
you from illness or evil spirits, or to provide a cure. So already we got two issues to think about
here. One, it's assuming that there are evil spirits out there out to get you, and that somehow
just putting a physical object on you can keep them away. Well, you know, that alone already
starts sounding a little sketchy. But then you also have, it's quite common on the rings or
necklaces or having engraved little metal scrolls rolled up to have either words associated with
like a prayer to another deity, or an image of the healing God, or images of things associated with
that God. So for example, asclepius was associated with snakes, and so you might have a carving of
a snake on it or something like that. So virtually everybody in the ancient world wore amulets,
Jews, Judeans wore amulets, Christ followers, Christians in the second century, third century,
fourth century, they wore amulets. I have no question that Paul would have worn amulets
as part of the way of treatment. But where would he draw the line? You know, if it's something
that's just wearing some plants tied together with a string around your neck, hey, for them,
that'd be no different than us taking a shot at the doctor. It's not something that's a problem.
But what if you're told that somebody has resided in incantations and prayers
to Asclepius while they were creating this batch of plants? Well, does that make it a problem?
Well, what if instead of a batch of plants, it's a ring or a necklace that's got, let's say, a picture
of an animal on it? That in itself is not a problem, but either A, does that a problem for Paul as a
Jew or engraved images at all? Or B, does it's association with a particular deity,
like the snake in Asclepius caused a problem? Or would you actually have to have a carving
of the actual God? And even at that, is that necessarily a problem? And so you start seeing how
it's very nuanced, very nuanced. And basically where I end up to make a long, you know, to kind
of bother some inclusion is that I think the only thing that Paul would have drawn a line at
is things that are directly affiliated with other gods, things that involve, I don't think Paul would
have gone to a temple of Asclepius. I'm not sure about that, because these Asclepian healing centers
also had physicians on staff. So it does raise the question, is it okay for to go to an Asclepian
healing center to be treated by a physician as long as you don't offer sacrifices to Asclepius
while you're there? I think probably Paul might have allowed that. I don't think he would have done
it as a Jew, a Judea, because it would have been too contrary to his sensibilities. But I think as
long as you're not actively praying to the other deity offering sacrifices to them, in fact,
there's a fascinating text I bring up in my book from a rabbinic text from probably the fourth
century, where they're even doing the rabbis at the kind of dominant opinion among the rabbis ends
up being, if it's associated with healing, it's okay. They have this category they call the ways
of the Amorites, referring to texts in the legal texts where you're to avoid the Amorites. So they
have all these discussions about what qualifies as the ways of the Amorites. And basically they say
it's a ritual or a practice involves healing. It's not ways of the Amorites. But then they get
into, okay, well, some of these are associated with other gods. Well, what can you do at the shrine
of another god? And they actually permit a lot of things, including weirdly, if I remember correctly,
it's okay to like touch the deity statue, but not to pray to it. You know, and so just fascinating
that even these rabbis who are very concerned about maintaining a strict monotheism allow all kinds of
practices. Yeah, he would tend to think, no, surely, Jews wouldn't allow that surely Paul would
objected to that. But when you look at what these later rabbis are doing. No, we just got this wrong
conception of how Jews, Judeans, whatever terms we want to use grapple with these kinds of questions.
So I think that Paul probably permitted, and maybe even himself used just about anything,
as long as it wasn't directly involved in the cultic worship of another deity, which always
raises a lot of interesting questions about Paul's views about the gods and a host of other things.
Yeah, it does bring up a question in particular about the clear gifts of the spirit that we're
finding him speaking in tongues reminds me of, you know, was it the oracles of Delphi or at least
sibling oracles and things. Yeah, a lot of things that the gods spoke through people.
Right. And they're uttering an incoherent tongue and things. And Paul did that often,
which makes me wonder how Hellenized is this? Because, you know, it's just odd, you know,
are there Jews running around speaking in gibberish in the tongues of angels and in Paul's letters
without getting to acts where people try to say, well, what they're doing is they're literally
translating actual literal language. This seems to be clearly a practice of what we would see at
the nearby evangelical Pentecostal church, maybe not completely rolling on the ground in the whole
nine, but definitely if Paul's having to tame the Corinthians, they're doing some crazy stuff. So
if they're doing that, and what do we see also, maybe this is anachronistic, is a laying on of
hands and people are trying to do these things. It made me wonder, like, why aren't we granting that
possibility as something that, you know, hey, the church has all the answers. We don't need, or at
least this community has the answers. Do you have like a specific, I mean, I know you drew a
different conclusion, but do you have like a specific response you might can give as to like
as to like, maybe they're maybe they are doing something like this, because we know the Jews,
I want to say, we keep talking about the pagans, of course, they're pagan gods, the Slavius,
he was a son of Apollo, Apollo was a healing God, of course, as well. So there's a whole another,
like, deep trail on the pagan world, we could go down, but the Jews did this and their patron was
Solomon, Solomon was a controller of spirits. And like, so it makes me wonder, like, is it,
I don't know, maybe I'm still keeping that door open wondering, they're doing some crazy stuff.
Maybe they're doing some like, watch, oh, your legs stretched or
you can see now, like some trexter type. Yeah, interesting. Certainly, you know, you refer to
Solomon. Exorcism is very strong, very much practiced in Jewish circles. And of course,
we have a reference, even in the book of Acts, where Paul talks about where there's this episode of
casting out trying to seven Jews cast trying to cast out demons, they say,
we know Paul, we don't know you, and they attack them. And that seems like a weird little story to
us. But there are all kinds of references all the way back from from the book of Tobit back in
the probably 34th century BC, all through the rabbis of lots of, you know, exorcism practice.
In fact, Jews were had a renown were renowned even in the Greek and Roman circles as exorcists.
They were also known for using the spells and incantations and magic. There's a whole tradition.
In fact, plenty of the elder, who's a wonderful source for all kinds of his natural history,
he's late first century. He talks about, he's really down on these people he calls the Magi,
which of course we find the term also in the beginning of Matthew's Gospel,
the kinds of magical techniques of healing and said, etc. that they offer. And yet he embraces
and accepts all kinds of things that we today would couldn't see any distinction, but you think
things he accepts and the things he is attacking. Well, when he's talking about kind of a little
history of magic that's and how it relates to medicine, etc. He says at one little point,
and there's this whole other school of Jewish Jewish school of magic that I'm not really going
to talk about here, but he alludes to them as he's got this the sense that Jews are known
for performing magical kinds of activities. And, you know, what's included in that.
That's where I give my run into issues of evidence, certainly exorcism, certainly to some degree,
spells and incantations as as modes of healing. But as far as the specific kind of thing like
anything like speaking in tongues, Daniel Martin, who I think you have had some communication with,
he wrote a great article 15 or 20 years ago that I don't remember the title of the source,
but it's got glossolalia in the in the title. And he does identify some instances, for example,
in the book called the Testament of Job, there is a reference toward the end to Job's daughters
prophesying and something that could be understood as speaking in tongues. And there's a bit more,
but he brings together all the evidence there. So if you want to look up that he's a that's a
good source. And he does, as you were saying, bring in, you know, Delphi and other kind of aspects
along those lines. So I think that this was that particular thing was not something distinctive to
Christianity. Yes, one more little tidbit. Just as we said earlier, Paul doesn't talk
about the miracles of Jesus. He also never mentions exorcism. He almost never mentions demons.
The idea that demons could somehow be the causes of sickness, and that you cast them out or drive
them away by rituals to cure is very much there in other Jewish sources from his day. It is not
there in Paul. So this concluding this because we have so much more to talk about. I mean,
I'm not kidding. I love this. This is amazing. Fantastic so far. And I want to do more. I really
do. This begs this begs the question at the end here. If Paul is missing this, we have one suit
where there's many plausible explanations you list as possible answers to the situation.
You've come to a conclusion that at first, you weren't quite on the same page.
Either we're missing. If you're wrong in your conclusion right now, which is tentative,
that's how you are your scholar. But if you're wrong and you're not like going to be shocked,
you just be like, oh, okay, we just don't have those letters. And we found those letters now or we
see something blah, blah, blah. We were able to know it was really authentic. Paul and then,
okay, both or another letter that wrote about Paul and we know it's authentic, whatever,
that would validate enough for you to say, okay, he was, he just did mention them and these, which
is odd. But if let's say the conclusion is it's not in Paul, and we know early on that's not what
was practiced. What, like, how did we get from it's not in Paul to everything we know of that's
really extravagant about Christianity with acts and the Gospels? This literature is loaded with
it. Like, what is the answer you have come up with that connection between no to we're having
Jesus do it, and we're even making Paul out to do it? What's the answer there that you would say?
Yeah, so you tell me.
I think one of the things that I do mention more than once in the book and also in the
article you have there is I think Paul's personal experience plays a role in it.
Yeah. You know, he's someone who suffered a lot and he didn't get cured. And I, when we want to,
if we want to follow up about later about the kind of signs and wonders, etc., you know,
was Paul a miracle worker as acts would portray and so, you know, even apart from the question of
healing. And, you know, I'm the interesting to see where we go with that, but I think he
does not present himself as a healer. And again, I think that's because of his own personal
experience. You know, as I said earlier, even with his thorn in the flesh, he's just got to live
with it. And so, I think that perhaps that was, you know, he was going in different directions
than come to us and see miracles. I think I'll argue later. I think there were
miracles occurring in connection with Paul's preaching. I want to offer perhaps a naturalistic
interpretation of that rather than necessarily a supernaturalistic interpretation. But I'm not
going to be arguing for a non-supernatural Paul. I think that Paul was someone who was not only a
mystic, but someone who his religious life, his inner life is something that's hard to get a hold
of a lot of times, but he does enough tantalizing hints to give us some ideas that he, well, let's
say put this way, he certainly believed that miraculous things were happening in conjunction
with his preaching. And we kind of have to think about what does that mean, even what does miracle
mean in the ancient world, and how do you know one when you see one and who defines them, but I
mean, Greeks and Romans believed in miracles, Jews, Judeans believed in miracles, people were doing
miracles. You know, you mentioned Paula Fredrickson earlier. I mean, Paula talks about that. She says,
I believe Jesus did miracles. I also believe other Jews did miracles. So we have to kind of unpack
what we mean by those terms. And again, I think we're going to find that sometimes the mindset,
the worldview of people in the Greco-Roman world was so radically different than our own. They
didn't live in a material mechanistic world of cause and effect. All of life was pervaded by
divine presences and powers, and you had to deal with them on a regular basis. And so, you know,
what do you do with that? So I just throw that much out there. Kind of a non-answer.
I love it. Let's leave everyone on a cliffhanger here, because I want to dive deep. This requires
us to tackle, unpack, and try to discuss what's going on. People might go, why don't you do the
continuity? I mean, they're painting him. You have Paul as this, what would you call that?
He becomes a figure. They're making him in Acts that in his letters, it's not there. There's
contradictions between both the letters of Paul and Acts. And we're going to unravel that, I think,
as time goes by. We'll discuss this in our next episode together. The book, when is it going to
be published? Well, I'm just interested in your ask, because I just said a question yesterday to
the editor there saying, hey, when is this going to come out? I'm assuming based on my prior,
my experience with my other books later this year, I would expect that they would want to
bring it out prior to the big annual meeting of the Society of Biblical Literature Thanksgiving.
So I'm guessing October, November, but maybe before you, maybe I'll have the information
maybe early next week, and you could maybe post that in your notes or something like that.
Absolutely. And I'll make sure that I add that in the description when the time comes.
For our audience's sake, I hope everybody goes and gets a copy of his books.
Get familiar with his work. And the reason why I say this right now for everybody who's watching,
you see all these books, you go on Amazon, you start looking, we're going to get into these.
We're going to get into these topics. We're going to dive deep into this guy we call Paul,
who really has changed the world, at least the literature that he has is used in,
is the motivator, if you will, within this, what we call the New Testament,
that has caused the world to change and has bridged a gap, I would say,
in the thinking between Jew and Gentile. And man, it gets deep. I can't even begin to unravel it.
So go check out his literature, because Chris is going to take us through this.
We're going to take magnifying glasses to maybe some pericapies, what Paul's doing,
some of the dilemmas that Paul's living in. I mean, it's just a whole other world.
When you said miracle and what it means, and then you started saying
that Paula Fredrickson thinks Paul did miracles and so did other Jews,
I thought, my modern understanding is she doesn't literally believe in miracles,
because what we think of as miracles, no, she doesn't. But what they thought of as a miracle,
and maybe it's like today when people go, I prayed and I asked for my car keys,
I found them, it's a miracle. Oh, okay, it's a miracle. Maybe that's what they mean.
It's complicated, that's for sure. I do want to add, since you referred people to my
book pages there, that if you don't want to wait until the more academic treatment comes out,
the novels really do immerse you into this world. There's a lot there about
Greek enrollment and indigenous religion. A lot of descriptions carry enactments of religious
rituals. There's a lot there about healing. In fact, the primary storyline of the first
two books in this trilogy has to do with this guy making a trek across Asia Minor,
from Pacifician Antioch in the center of what we know of today as Turkey,
to the West Coast, to the Healing Shrine of Asclepius in Pergamon, and Northwestern Turkey.
And what happens there, and then the journey back, and so it's kind of a journey narrative,
there's a lot more to it than that. And so you really get immersed into that one. Just to give
you a sense of how precise I am about historical accuracy and every detail at the Shrine of Asclepius
Pergamon, if perhaps any of your readers have ever, listeners have ever been there,
there are some good ruins there and a lot of information on the site, but most of what you
see there is from the second century. Hadrian did a massive infusion of money and resources
to the site that time. Well, I didn't want to describe my characters coming there to things
that were built in the second century. And boy, digging in and discovering what it was like in
the first century was a massive undertaking. There's just nothing out there. And finally,
I ordered in through interlibrary alum, the four volume archaeological report of the archaeologists
on the site written in German, and worked my way through that and all the diagrams in the back of
it and teased out of their color coded diagrams, the best idea of what buildings were there and
what they were like. And then I still had to use my imagination in places about certain things,
but it's an educated imagination based on detailed understanding of the archaeological site.
And so I try to immerse my readers into the lived reality. There's a woman named Bronwyn
Wickiser who did her dissertation on that site and the practices there. And I sent that section
of my novels off to her. And she said, you know, you've really nailed it here. She said,
there's virtually nothing here I would have any objection to or consider. So if you want to be
able to kind of get into these issues in a kind of a lived experience type way, a way that is
accessible, the first one is called a rooster for Asclepius. The second one is called a bull for
Pluto. The third book is not yet written, but it's not really you have to read those two books
to get the full story. The third book will take my characters into Israel and the years leading
up to and including the Jewish revolt against the Romans. I've twice had to cancel trips to Israel
to do some more onsite research for that. I've got a trip scheduled for May. I will be starting to
write that book in the next few weeks. So I'd like to hope I can get that done this year,
but it's not necessary. If you get hooked to them, the first book is also available on Audible.
I've got a wonderful reader who does great voices. The second one will hopefully be out in the next
couple of months or so. So if you prefer listening, another way to access them. I think it's better
on Audible than reading the page. They're pretty massive books. So you're going to take some time
to get through them, but I'd say it's well worthwhile. Thank you so much for your time.
I definitely look forward to doing this again. And let's keep going. Everybody who's watching,
leave your comment. Let us know what you think about this discussion because there's just so
much to unpack. And please go check out his work. Everything of his that I have is down in the
description. And if it's not there yet, eventually it will be. And if there's some follow-up questions,
I'll be happy to address them next time around. There you go. And don't forget, ladies and gentlemen,
we are MedVision.
