The Apostle Paul is actually the enigma code. There's no way when you have so many scholars
come to the same man's literature and come out with so many different views.
Ladies and gentlemen, Dr. Matthew Teason takes a deep dive, a scalpel, and says,
look, here's what Paul's really doing. He's not anti-Torah, but rather, he's fighting for what
he understands the Old Testament to be and how that would apply to non-Jews or better yet,
non-Israelites. Stay tuned. Ladies and gentlemen, join MythVision's Patreon not only to support us,
but there are 72 videos that I did with Dr. Dennis R. McDonald and Richard Carrier
all on the Patreon Early Access. You guys can ask personal questions when I go to
interview these scholars and you're helping MythVision grow. We are MythVision. Welcome back to
MythVision podcast. Your host, Eric Lambert. Ladies and gentlemen, I have awaited this moment for
a long time. Professor Matthew Teason has joined me today and I really appreciate you. I'm super
happy that you came on. I found your video. It was like a Harvard discussion a long time ago on
Gentiles and Dogs. What an interesting topic. Welcome to MythVision, my friend.
Well, thanks for having me, Derek.
Thank you. I want to let our audience know up front what made me attracted and interested in
diving deeper with you is for a long time, scholarship has seen Paul as this guy who does
an elbow in the story. He does this like historical conundrum for most people and they go,
Paul changed the game. Now, I still interview scholars who discuss this topic and they say,
Paul is radically changing it. He's saying no to Torah. He's slamming Judaism and Jews and
hence anti-Semitism starts to show up on the scene the way people interpret Paul throughout history.
However, you, Paula Fredrickson and wonderful scholars have come in and said,
you know what? What if Paul is in Judaism and he's trying to interpret the scriptures
potentially in some, I guess we could say Hellenistic Judaism type of way. He's more on the
lenient side, not super conservative as some people would maybe consider them.
I don't know. I'll leave that to you. But you've written two books and I want everyone to check
them out and then I'll shut up because I want to hear what you have to say. Here are a couple
books that I highly recommend. There are more papers he's written here you can get, but Paul
and the Gentile problem right here with the looks like a horn kind of going through Paul's head
and then Jesus and the forces of death. And I thought at first I was thinking, what are the
forces of death? What we're going to get into that today as well to find out more. And I want to
commend you finally on Jesus and the forces of death at the beginning of your book. You say,
this is not a book to tell you the historical Jesus and what he actually did. I have people on
the show that are mythicists that come on PhDs, right? And they're like, well, he may not have
existed. But then there are others who say, no, he did. There was definitely a guy, but knowing
what he did behind the mythologized text that we may have, that's the conundrum that we can't
quite answer. And that is something that I have to say thank you for in your book is like,
I'm not trying to tell you exactly what the guy actually did. I'm telling you what the authors
are presenting. So I'm done. What's Paul doing and what's Jesus doing in the Gospels?
How many hours do we have here, Derek? Have a nice day. I'll be back.
Well, which one do you want me to start with? Who do you want me to start with?
I think let's go chronology wise. Let's start with Paul because everyone loves to start with
the Gospels, but Paul is earlier. Yeah. Yeah. So if I were talking about historical Jesus would
start with him chronologically, but yes, you're right. I'm not willing to go there.
So starting with Paul, as you mentioned, it's been almost a 2000 year tradition of reading Paul
as abandoning Judaism, rejecting the law, condemning the law as being powerless, useless,
outdated, and a whole other bunch of really negative things. And that of course expands to
sort of a view of Judaism as a whole as negative, outdated, whatever. So in my book,
Paul and the Gentile Problem, I looked specifically at circumcision because I thought it's really
easy to talk about law and the abstract, but what is Paul doing with circumcision here?
And it became quickly apparent to me that Paul has to be understood first and foremost as
someone who thinks he's divinely designated to go speak not to Jews, but to non-Jews.
And so whatever he has to see about circumcision is in the first place directed to non-Jews,
not Jews. So if he says don't get circumcised, he's not talking to Jews, he's talking to Gentiles.
And that's where we sort of, I think, can crack open this sort of nut that's so difficult to get
with Paul in the law is that getting the identity of his readers right, initial readers right,
helps us understand the rhetorical purpose of his claims about the law and circumcision,
which on the surface seem really negative. And if I may, as we go along, I'd like to ask you
specific questions pertaining to Paul's audience that I think just raise a bunch of red flags in
my head and trying to figure out what's going on, because you're right. This is a complex piece of,
like this whole bit of Paul is super complex. You're in the vein of Paula Fredrickson on this
idea. In her book, Paul the Pagan's Apostle was really fascinating. But I know some people who
would suggest that Paul's audience, like I've said before, were somehow apostasized either Jews
or apostasized Israelites in some ethnic sense or something like this.
And then they tie in somewhat to Jason Staples ideas and go, well, Paul's using language,
it sounds like the lost tribes for his audience. Therefore, they must be lost tribes or something.
I don't know if you have a comment on that, but I'd love to maybe get into your ideas of what
you're saying, because a non Jew, what is that? You know, that's everyone who's not a Jew.
To me, universal. Only distinct apostasized Israelites. That's the thing that really...
So this really goes back, I think, in a large part back to the work of Stanley Stowers in his
really brilliant work on Romans, which the title doesn't show the brilliance. It's a rereading of
Romans, which is sort of blasé. But again, this is Paul repeatedly telling us about non-Jews.
Especially in Romans, for instance, he really telegraphs clearly. He thinks he's speaking
writing to non-Jews. And his depiction of non-Jews is exceedingly negative. He has them
caricatured very negatively. They're A, idolatrous. They don't worship the right God.
So all Gentiles, it doesn't matter if you're Roman, Skithian, Crete, whatever, you're all lumped together
into this sort of, you know, mixed bag of everybody but Jews. And you're easily all lumped together
because in Paul's mind, you're a bunch of idol worshiping immoral people. You got a real problem
on your hand, in other words, in Paul's mind. And so, and there were some Gentiles out there
in Paul's day who knew they had a problem. In thought, okay, Jews have the solution for us. And
for some, that solution was the Jewish law. Apply it to Gentiles, and that'll fix them.
In Paul's argument is, no, no, your problem is so bad, actually, that the law is just,
it's powerless to solve your problem. So it's not that the law is bad or anything, but you can't
apply it to Gentiles and expect, you know, successful results to appear. And so for Paul,
his claim is that his gospel gives these Gentiles who have this huge deep-seated problem,
everything they need to solve this problem. It's interesting you say that because some people would
argue, and I only am speaking for these particular people that talked about apostasizing, they would
say like, no one needed the law and no one was under the law, no one was given the law other than
Israel. Why would these non-Israelites, these Gentiles ever even find an attraction to the law?
But historically, Paula Frederick sent in a book, your work, point out that this funny little group
called God Fears do come on the scene. And it's like, these people found an attraction for whatever
reason to synagogues in the diaspora and said, hey, we like this, but we're going to add it to our
other deities list. And Paul comes along and is like, we're going to fix that, you know? So I'm
going with you on this road as we journey to discuss Paul and what he's doing. But they were
also called dogs. I mentioned, there was a mention of this being discussed, even in the gospel, there
seems to be this place where Jesus even says something like this, as though this is giving
you kind of a historical context that this is the way things were understood in antiquity,
how the Jews may be viewed non-Jews. Yeah, so if listeners and viewers are at all familiar with
what's called the New Perspective on Paul, James Dunn and NT Wright most famously have talked about
Judaism as an ethnocentric religion. And Christianity comes along, Paul and Jesus both come along and
destroy this ethnocentricity for grace. They swap it out for grace for all, which is lovely. It
sounds wonderful. Again, it's a negative caricature of Judaism as, you know, racist. Essentially,
ethnocentric is just a really long, multi-syllable word for racism. And the Gospels and Paul both
have ethnocentricity in them. Jesus calling the syrophoenician or Canaanite woman, depending on
whether you're reading Mark or Matthew, a dog isn't a compliment. And it's based on the fact
that she's non-Jewish. And then Paul, of course, you know, I mean, he negatively, repeatedly negative
characterizes Gentiles. But then I do think in Philippians 3, he talks about Gentiles as dogs
as well. And Luke, if well, whoever wrote the Acts of the Apostles in Acts 10 depicts
non-Jews as a bunch of unclean animals. So we have this, I mean, it's ethnocentricity,
it's ancient ethnocentricity. And, you know, Benjamin Isaac has detailed very nicely
the sort of thoroughgoing nature of ethnic, ethnic centricity in antiquity. Jews aren't
unique in this regard. And this Jesus movement doesn't break from it at the end of the day.
And in fact, they find, they find thinking with animals obviously very helpful. Gentiles are akin
to dogs. That doesn't mean they're immoral, I mean, they are immoral, but dog isn't immoral,
it's just something that's sort of genetically or genealogically impure and distinct from kosher
animals. And nothing you do to a dog or a pig or anything can make it clean. Its DNA is such that
you can't wash it or clean it or make offerings or anything that's going to cleanse it and turn
it into a pure animal. Which then, if that's the Gentile problem, if it's sort of rooted in one's
DNA, so to speak, what's the solution? Well, it's got to be sort of some massive divine intervention
that rewrites Gentile DNA. You have a very good way of putting words, by the way. I really appreciate
this already. This is fascinating because that seems to be this solution here. It's a spiritual
solution, according to Acts. And look, I come at this, I'm very transparent. I'm a skeptic,
but I love the Bible. Like, I actually do. I'm not like the guy who's just like,
we're going to bash everybody. Some people might feel that way at times when I'm highly
skeptical about a conclusion, but the bottom line is Acts and the vision. I find it very
interesting that Peter's the guy that bumps into Cornelius. It's like, this guy didn't have Paul
bump into him. He had Cornelius or Peter on purpose because Peter represents the faction that's to
the circumcision. And here he is going, there's no way. God has to bring a vision to him. And
boom. Well, how do we have clean become or unclean become clean? God makes that happen. And so
the question then becomes, how do we get from, you know, this is, is this what Christianity is
doing? Is this what makes it so unique? Is it saying these unclean people are now being made
clean, but not because of Torah? No. I thought there are a diversity of thoughts that ancient
Jews had about Gentiles. Paula Fredrickson, who you've mentioned, she said Judaism doesn't have
a view about the Gentiles. Jews do. Judaism doesn't think it doesn't have a conclusion. It's an
abstraction, right? Individual Jews, just like modern day Christians or Americans or whoever
have views of things. And as we know very clearly from the last, well, especially the last few years,
there can be diversity of opinions and much conflict within different groups.
Some Jews thought Gentiles, all they had to do was worship the Supreme God and stay clear of
certain, you know, sort of big sins. And they were what some scholars talk about as ethical
monotheists. Others thought actually they needed the law. They needed to apply it to them.
Or at least they could benefit from it if they chose to. And others thought maybe some thought,
and I think like the book of Jubilees, for instance, is one of these cases. Gentiles are just,
they're out of luck. They're not God's people. They'll never be God's people. They can't become
God's people. And so there's a whole diversity of thought. And that we see that in this early
Jesus movement too, because some Jewish believers in Jesus think, well, we need to apply the law
to Gentiles. And others are saying, the law doesn't apply to Gentiles, or at least doesn't
need to be applied. So I think there's a spectrum of thought there too. And Paul comes down. So,
you know, you mentioned earlier language that I think is very familiar to us modern people.
Oh, what was the language we used? Paul is more not lackadaisical, but
he's more liberal about it. He's not as conservative, strict in the same sense.
So I would push back. This is a very common view of Paul. He's this Paul of liberty and freedom.
He uses this language, and he thinks he is, I think. But he doesn't say to Gentiles, well,
look, if you want to get circumcised, you go for it, but you don't need to. He actually says,
hello, don't get circumcised. It's not an apostle of freedom. This is something Albert,
that Albert Schweitzer, Albert Schweitzer, who over 100 years ago noted, he's not the apostle of
liberty. He's saying you can't get circumcised. You do it, and you're done. And so one of the things
I, one of the arguments I make in my book that I think is relatively novel, and hopefully correct,
is that I think Paul thinks you just can't apply. It's impossible to apply the law
in circumcision in particular to non-Jews. And when they do it, they make a category mistake.
It's like trying to slaughter a pig to drain it of its blood so you can eat it. It doesn't make it
kosher. It's still a pig. And the same with the Gentile. Circumcise the Gentile. It's just a
circumcised Gentile. And there were circumcised Gentiles in the ancient world. Jews were not alone
in practicing circumcision. So I think Paul thinks, you know, this is like, and this is the
analogy I use in the book. He thinks circumcision and applying the law to Gentiles is ultimately
little more than cosmetic surgery. It might make you look right, but it doesn't actually justify
you before God. You're still a Gentile. It doesn't make you non-idolatrous. It doesn't make you moral.
You need this infusion of the divine spirit and the messiah's spirit, which then connects you to
God and connects you to Abraham, which is important for Paul. So there's that authenticity again,
connects you to Paul, and it gives you sort of moral steroids so that before you couldn't
lift the burden of doing good, now you have this infusion of steroids. And now you are empowered
to live in ways that Gentiles in Paul's mind couldn't previously do.
I love this. And before we get off, Paul, because he's such an interesting topic,
your first book, we'll get to your second one. The idea that you mentioned Paul's ethnocentricity
to Abraham, relations three is a very interesting passage. Obviously, he's arguing exactly what
you're talking about. It seems to me when I read this, and I'm no scholar, but I've been reading
it for a while and listening to various scholars. I've interviewed 30 different guys, if you will,
and girls on this topic. Paul's saying, my message was true. My gospel's right. Anyone else who teaches
another one hint, hint, a Torah observant type of version of this, of Christ and the law. It seems
like he's going down that rabbit hole. And when he gets to Galatians 3, I just want your opinion
on this, he's talking about the gospel being preached to Abraham before he was even circumcised,
he was justified by faith before any of that. So you don't need to either. And there was a promise
that he would be a blessing to all the nations. Then he goes on to say, and if my reading of this
is correct, that the seed, he's saying this is not many descendants. I don't know if this is a
convoluted argument or not. I just, I wonder what he's trying to do to try and make the argument.
He's taking Genesis and saying that it's to Christ specifically, not to all of these descendants,
and these people who are probably opposing Paul's ideas or going to the Galatian church,
they're saying you need to convert in order to become a descendant of Abraham to become a seed.
And he's saying, no, no, no, no, no, it's all in Christ. Am I right about this?
Yeah, I think that's exactly right. So Galatians, we see Abraham pop up, especially in Galatians
and in Romans, where it seems like circumcision is front and center of Paul's mind and the law in
Gentiles. And it looks like he's responding to claims. It's, we're sort of, what's what John
Barkley calls mirror reading. We're trying to sort of read behind the letters to see, well,
what's Paul responding to? And it looks like people are claiming, A, you need to be descended
from Abraham, if you're a Gentile, to get the promises that God made to Abraham.
And the way to do it is to, like Abraham, who was a Gentile himself, get circumcised,
and then you'll enter into this covenant and all those covenant promises from Genesis 17 are yours.
Of course, Genesis 17 is not a text about conversion, not a text about if any future
non-Israelite wants to join the people of Abraham, all you have to do is this, the whole point of
Genesis 17 is this is for Abraham and for his sons and their sons and their slaves. The slaves,
of course, are just in the household. They're not actually, you know, inheriting children. They're
just slaves. And so Paul actually really, I think, plays with Genesis 17 along these lines.
With his slave ideas too. Yeah, exactly. And then that weird allegory in Galatians 4, 21 through 31,
with Abe actually has two sons and they're both circumcised. So you want to get circumcised as a
Gentile, you're going to become a son of a sort, but it's the son who's a slave. You're going to
become like Ishmael. Why? Because you're not actually doing covenantal circumcision. Covenantal
circumcision is according to Genesis 17 and Leviticus 12, eighth day circumcision.
Any other circumcision doesn't actually fulfill all the requirements of the law.
And so if you get circumcised after the eighth day, you have a circumcision that's very similar to
one of Abraham's sons, Ishmael. He's the wrong son. He doesn't inherit. And in fact,
he gets kicked out of the house. And Paul even mentions this in Galatians 4, that you have to
cast out the slave woman and her son. And so Paul's point is you become an Ishmael son of Abraham,
not a son like Isaac. And therefore you don't inherit if you do, if you try to become a son
via circumcision in the law. But then Paul says, great news. I agree, you have to become a son of
Abraham. You have to to get the promises. But there's a really sort of cool, weird way. And this
is Paul's intricate argument in Galatians 3. Abraham's seed is the Messiah is a claim he makes.
And it's in the Messiah that one can access these promises. How? Well, because as a gentile,
if you place your trust in the Messiah, this releases the Messiah's spirit, his Ptuma,
and it is injected into your body. And it forges. So when we talk about spirit, it's very easy
in the modern world to think of sort of non material or not real. Paul, and I think he's
indebted to ancient physics of his day here, he never comes out and says it explicitly. But I think
his readers would hear it. He thinks of spirit as something material. It's physical. It's the best
matter out there, much better than this stuff, which gets wrinkles and gets old and dies and
then decomposes. Spirit Ptuma is eternal, imperishable, unchanging. And this might tie into his resurrection
too, I think. Yeah. You get this injection of the Messiah's Ptuma and you have an unbreakable bond,
not only to the Messiah, which is good, but to the Messiah's forefather, Abraham.
And so I think Paul has this deeply materialist understanding of Gentiles getting connected
to Abraham. So instead of this cosmetic surgery of circumcision, it's this genetic therapy
of receiving the Messiah's Ptuma. And the Messiah's Ptuma is connected genetically,
genealogically to Abraham. So you need Abraham. This is how you get there by the spirit, not
the law. I love this. That's actually a wonderful argument that Paul's come up with. It's a really
interesting one, especially when you look at the narrative, because the way you just describe it,
that makes sense. If you're looking at it, the way he's looking at it, makes sense. And I could
get why Jews would argue, because that's what they do. They love to debate and have these talks.
So you've made my interest have to ask one more question before we leave Paul, because I suspect,
as you talk about your new book, you might jump to Paul occasionally too. But Romans 9-11 is the,
you know what I'm talking about. As soon as I said that, boom, boom, boom. You have Dr. Jason
Staples who wrote his article in 2011. He's currently writing his thesis or his book about
the Old Testament he just finished. I read that. Now the New Testament he's working on,
trying to get to Paul. In what ways, and I know you guys respect each other, even if you would
disagree at the end of the day, your colleagues, you know, in terms of, you guys are experts in
the field, this is what you guys do. What do you think about his theory and how do you differ?
Or like, what would you say is happening in Romans 9-11 if you don't agree with his theory?
I'm interested, because I know there's a couple different ways to look at this.
Yeah, you know, I've read his Romans 11 article. I'm looking forward to reading his Paul book when
it comes out to learn from him. You know, I think where he sees the northern tribes, and we've both,
you know, some of our research has overlapped here on the idea of the lost northern tribes
and concern for them in other texts, including texts from Qumran. You know, I don't see that in
Romans 9-11, but I would be delighted to see that there. You know, I think Paul just thinks
of these Gentiles as straight up Gentiles who God has taken a detour on and has done so by
hardening physically or, you know, temporarily hardening Israel so that they don't all believe,
which of course, for Paul is the Jews, right? Yeah, sorry, Jews, yeah. And this is, I mean,
I know Jason wants to make a real sharp distinction between Israel and Jew. I'm not entirely sure I
see that, but I need to think more about it to be honest. So it is interesting because he gets the
Romans 9-11 and he wants to say that Israel is the word that comes up instead of Jew, which he
presents Jew previously. And this is interesting. He could be right. But when I go to Acts, and I
know it's a different book, definitely even later, we see in Acts 13, for example, men of Israel
and those God fears among you or those Gentiles who fear God among you, men of Israel. I mean,
are we saying the Northern tribes there? No, obviously, it sounds to me that we would go ahead
and say the Jews represent Israel in Acts. And this is this big debate he's got where he takes
on John J. Collins and other people and says, you guys think the Jews or the Jerusalem people,
people in the South, have now become Israel and that there's not this restoration theology,
so to speak. It might pop its head up from time to time, but it's not like the way he wrote his
book all the way through the Old Testament. Every book you can go to, and it's all teaching that.
But I don't know. No. Yeah, as I said, I'm a little skeptical about some of those distinctions,
but maybe when I see his full poll book, I'll be convinced. So then 1125 in Romans,
the idea that all Israel shall be saved when the whole number of the Gentiles,
how do you take that right now? Yeah. So I take it as Paul thinks there's a temporary stop,
stoppage in time, and God's collecting up the non-Jewish and non-Israelite nations,
he's vacuuming them up. And once their full number comes in, then God is going to sort of
press play again on the story of Israel writ large, and then they're going to come to believe.
So the whole point is a lot of Jews aren't believing, so I think he conflates Jews in Israel.
Maybe it's a one-to-one match, but I think it's close for Paul. There's a temporary pause
to vacuum up the Gentiles. God's going to hit the play button again as soon as he's done getting
the Gentiles in. So I don't take it as that the Gentile salvation is part of what it means for
all Israel to be saved. And after the Gentiles, the full number of Gentiles have been brought in,
then God's going to redeem Israel. Which of course, Paul's, you know,
thoroughgoingly apocalyptic and he thinks the end is nigh in his time. I think we have a couple
thousand years of evidence that it wasn't, not in the way Paul imagined. And so I don't know,
we're Paul here today, how he would rewrite Romans 9 through 11 in light of that. But I think he
thought this was, Paul was at the forefront of this mission to get all the Gentiles vacuumed up.
And shortly after, then all Israel would believe. And clearly that didn't happen in false time.
Ladies and gentlemen, join MiFizion's Patreon. Not only to support us, but there are 72 videos
that I did with Dr. Dennis R. McDonald and Richard Carrier all on the Patreon. Early access. You guys
can ask personal questions when I go to interview these scholars and you're helping MiFizion grow.
