I
Dr. James D. Tabor, thank you so much for joining me.
It's good to be here.
Yes, so I hear you have a new book over here.
What's that book you got over there?
Yeah, when I wrote my dissertation at the University of Chicago under Jonathan Smith,
great historian of religions, he's legendary in our field.
I think I might have been one of the first to do a New Testament topic.
So I chose 2 Corinthians 12 where Paul talks about knowing a man in Christ like it's not him.
And he was caught up into the third heaven and entered paradise and he saw and heard things unutterable.
And that was my dissertation and I published it as a dissertation at the time, years ago in the 80s.
But recently, just two years ago, just before COVID, I rewrote that book for a more accessible audience.
And it's called Paul's Ascent to Paradise.
And it's on the mysticism of the apostle Paul that he's a mystic.
He thinks that he's been prophesied in Scripture.
We did a program on that, you know, did Paul think of himself as kind of a second Christ.
People can go look that one up.
But this is particularly on that single passage.
And as you read it, you begin to realize that he's talking about himself.
And I talk about that rhetorically. It's well known in Greek literature.
You can do that sort of third person thing.
I knew a man in Christ.
I won't boast of myself, but I'll boast of this man.
I give footnotes showing you other places where that kind of circumlocution is used.
Then he says, because of the abundance of revelations, like being caught up into the third heaven and entering paradise.
Third heaven, there's seven heavens in most systems in the Hellenistic period.
You know, that's the planetary spheres.
And when you go into the highest heaven, you're with God in paradise.
And that's where he hears and sees things that are unutterable.
Now, that Greek word can mean two things.
It can mean I can't tell you it was so amazing, or I'm not allowed to tell you.
I don't know which way to go with that.
Maybe both.
Like, I couldn't tell you if I tried because it was so amazing.
But usually there's a secrecy motif in these initiations.
Like, do you know Lucian's metamorphosis?
It's about Isis worship.
And he finally says, dear reader, I'm going to tell you what happens when you get initiated into Isis.
And he talks about a heavenly journey also.
I cover heavenly journeys in here quite a bit through the Hellenistic world.
So I think he's talking about probably getting secrets.
Not sure what that is, but he said it was super abundant.
He uses this compounded Greek word like, because of the over super abundance of revelations that I got,
God sent to me a thorn in the flesh lest I be exalted, like proud or something.
So I think he was told something that maybe nobody's ever experienced in his mind at least.
Right.
He might have been told, this is my guess because of Enoch material,
he sees God and in his world Christ sitting next to God.
I think he might have been told, Paul, come up here, sit at my right hand, you know, sit with me.
And then told, go tell your people, this is where you and all of them will someday be.
Just as Jesus overcame and was glorified and sits at the right hand of God.
So this is a new revelation.
And in his letters, remember, he says, this new thing that I have, this new revelation, it's never been revealed before.
It's a mystery.
Mystery.
I think it has to do with that lowly, homo sapien, flesh and blood of the dust human beings are destined to sit at the right hand of God,
not as angels above angels.
He says, do you not know we will judge angels?
Do you not know we will judge the world?
It could be that.
But either way, he's just struck.
So now he's got this thorn in the flesh.
That phrase is not used anywhere.
We would just go to some parallel and go, oh, it means this or that.
Most people take it as some kind of physical disability.
But he does call it a messenger of Satan, translated angel, but a messenger of Satan and it buffets him.
It strikes him.
It keeps him from being exalted, thinking, oh, what I saw, nobody's ever seen this.
And all of a sudden, you know, something happens.
Now, people have had wow guesses.
Oh my God, I think I listed once 20 things in the footnote, but it'd be like nearsightedness, epilepsy.
You know, Galician says, my bodily presence is not much.
So people go with that.
Scars, maybe from his stoning and being beat up.
And maybe his face was all like misshapen and, you know, it's like, don't look at me.
I'm like the ugliest man on earth.
But when he speaks, he's like an angel, you know, that kind of idea.
We don't know what it was.
Epilepsy, like he's suddenly teaching and he goes into some crazy fit like he's demon-possessed because people were superstitious.
But he does call it my bodily weakness.
So I've sort of leaned towards the blindness or nearsightedness because he talks about, I think it's at the end of Galatians,
see with what large letters I'm writing my name.
So I was picturing him going like, you know, his copyist has dictated the law.
He's dictated, written, and then he goes, pull, you know, like somebody that can't see it all.
And that also makes you kind of Mr. Magoo clumsy.
You remember Mr. Magoo, the cartoon where you could trip over stuff that's not very dignified.
Whereas Apollo strolls in and he's all eloquent and tall and handsome probably and wonderful voice
and trained in Alexandria with all of his rhetoric.
And Paul's kind of like, I'm just going to tell you, you know, what I experienced when I met Jesus or something.
But recently I started thinking, I wonder if it was sexual temptation.
Because when he says you can't get divorced and if you're a Christian, two Christians,
you can separate if you can't get along but don't get divorced because of Jesus' teaching.
He quotes Jesus. He says, this is, I'm not just telling you this.
The Lord said this, the husband should not depart from the wife, the wife, not from the husband.
So you're going back to Genesis, the ideal. The two become one, not the three, not the five, you know, people that marry over and over.
And so that's the ideal. And I wonder, and then he says, but if the unbelieving mate departs, let them depart.
Because you're not bound in that case. You're not bound.
I didn't mean you're not bound, what, like to chase them down the street and rope them and make them stay and tie them up.
He's not talking about that. I think he's saying the marriage can be dissolved by the person just abandoning it.
But if you're two Christians, he wants you to, you know, you can separate for a while, but work it out and try to get reconciled
because he believes that Christians would forgive each other.
And you know what, we would say counseling. We've got a lot of years together, you know, workout problems.
There's a lot invested, maybe children. What if Paul's wife left him?
We know he's living the celibate life, but how hard is it to live a celibate life?
You know, some people say, well, he's gay, so it's no problem.
Well, that still wouldn't get you over sexual temptation, even if you were gay. And I don't think he was gay.
I mean, he could be, but I doubt it.
So what if he is used to being married and his wife leaves?
Because it's odd that he would mention that if the wife departs, let her depart, because he's a rabbi.
And rabbis are married. I just can't imagine Paul as the single rabbi, you know, of the day.
All the rabbis are married and it's kind of understood that you have to get married and have a trade.
So he had a trade and he probably had a wife.
But let's say she left when he got his crazy visions.
She goes like, I'm staying back to my parents and keeping my Jewish faith.
And then what does he do?
Well, with the ascetic monks, we have their diaries and their records.
These are from a later time, but it shows you when you try to live a celibate life,
the main thing that you're tempted with and you dream about is not food and not riches and not wealth,
but particularly for males and probably females too, women too, because we've got medieval female saints,
that it's going to be sex.
Now, I don't want to go from thorn in the flesh to erection that directly,
because a thorn in the flesh sounds like a burr on your saddle kind of thing,
you know, like if you have a thorn in the flesh, you try to move and the thorn hits you.
So I'm not thinking so much about that, but I'm thinking of Romans 7,
where he's talking about his own life as a Christian.
It's not his past life.
And he says, the good that I would, I do not.
And the evil that I would not, that I do.
And if it's true that the good that I, the evil that I do, I don't want to do,
then it's not me that's doing it, but my flesh.
Well, usually when he talks about the flesh, it could be a short temper, it could be weaknesses,
it could be anger, it could be many things.
But often it's sex.
If you look at the list of things, like 10 of them will be sex,
and two or three will be patience, kindness, and so forth, as he names,
like works of the flesh, fruits of the spirit.
But he chooses coveting, as it's translated in the King James, you know,
the old Ten Commandments, I shall not covet.
But covet your neighbor's wife, or covet your neighbor's land, and so forth,
doesn't have to mean sex.
But it is a word that means to arduously desire for yourself.
And he says, I find that there's all kinds of covetousness in me, meaning desire.
I don't really picture Paul, who gave up everything, thinking,
oh, that Roman over there has a beautiful house.
I'm just lusting after that house.
I'd like to live in a nice mansion.
He thinks Jesus is coming soon.
So what would he be struggling with?
It could well be that he tries his best to not think of women or not think of sex.
And maybe it comes in his dreams, because you can't control your dreams.
And all of a sudden he has the most vivid dream of sexuality,
maybe with not his wife that may be left, maybe, maybe, maybe.
Okay, but I'm speculating.
But maybe a woman he was trying to teach who's very beautiful,
and all of a sudden he's like having a vivid dream about having sex with her.
And he would wake up and he would hate that.
He would just say, he would go, this is not me, you know, I'm not like this.
So I sympathize with him.
I think Augustine is the great example if you've read the Confessions.
He's in love his whole life with this woman.
He has a child with her.
And he writes, I've tried not to think about it.
I try, and then he even says, but then I have the dreams and I have the thoughts
and I just can't, you know, live a celibate life.
But he was a bishop and he tried to do it.
So I just wonder if the thorn in the flesh is his sexual temptations.
Rather than blindness, epilepsy, heart of hearing, crippled or something else.
It's just an idea that I had.
And it goes deeper in the book, right?
Yeah, particularly because he said the good that I would, I do not.
And Paul, I think he's pretty morally trained.
Like I don't picture him stealing, murdering, wanting material possessions.
He's given all that up.
So what would be left that he would really have trouble with?
And that could be a messenger of Satan that is a goat in his flesh.
You know, it's just driving him crazy.
So it's just an idea for a little segment.
But the book as a whole goes through many other things.
What is his mission?
What is his view of himself and so forth?
So you can get all these, these books are on Amazon because I published them, self published them.
Thank you.
Thank you.
