Ladies and gentlemen, in this episode about Paul's Gentile Problem, this is part two.
I'm not going to hide anything. This is a very heavy, heavy video. If you're not interested in
diving deep into the weeds like a college course level material on Paul and his Gentile Problem
and what was going on in his communities and such, you're not going to want to watch this.
But maybe just because you love me, you might play it and walk away
for the algorithm to see the watch time, hit a like, drop a comment, whatever.
I always greatly appreciate that. But if you're interested in diving really deep,
part one and part two in this Paul's Gentile Problem series is a really deep, deep dive.
So I'm warning you up front. If you're interested in this, check it out. You can also skip to
certain chapters if you want to see how Dr. Christopher Stanley deals with particular
chapters in this video and interprets Paul within his letters. Feel free to skip ahead.
Other than that, thanks a lot. We are MythVision. Welcome back to MythVision Podcast. I'm your
host, Derek Lambert. We're going to take a deep dive into Paul's Gentile Problem with my co-host,
Stephen Nelson. Welcome back, Stephen. Thank you. And we need to roll out the red carpet again
for Dr. Christopher D. Stanley. Welcome back to MythVision. How are you?
Good to be back with you, Derek. You have to continue what we started last time.
Dr. Stanley, me and Stephen. Well, specifically, Stephen brought you to my attention, but we have
been exploring Paul for quite some time, trying to wrap our heads around who was this guy? What was
he saying? What was his audience? What were they understanding him saying? And really, the historical,
cultural matrix or zeitgeist in which all the setting is taking place, which you laid out so
well in that previous episode that we have Paul's Gentile Problem. That's the part one. So for those
of you who are interested in diving deep, please go check out that interview with Dr. Stanley.
To make it simple, there's a longer introduction on who he is, but he is a Pauline expert. I mean,
he's spent decades plural studying Paul, New Testament literature. He's written many books
for those who are interested in diving deeper. And he has a trilogy. So specifically, a Rooster
for Asclepius, a Bull for Pluto. He's finishing the third one or starting the third one now.
He's written extensively on Paul. So if you're wanting to go deep into Paul, go check out his
other publications. And he has a website, aslavestory.com, where you can go and get the books and also
pay attention to the trilogy. Would you like to make a brief comment on any of this, Dr. Stanley?
This comment, you didn't quite say that the books at this website and the other one there
are fiction. They're historical fiction that seeks to bring alive the world of Paul in the early
Greco-Roman world in which Paul lived and operated, as opposed to my other books are
more technical, academic scholarship. But generally speaking, they could be accessible,
in most cases, to ordinary readers. And just so you know, the historical fiction actually does
a good job of showing what it would have looked like or been like in the first century. Other
historians, experts and such have said, wow, you painted a great picture for what was really going
on in the first century or in this contemporary period. So definitely check that out. With that
being said, I think it's best to hand it to you, Stephen, and then you can pass the baton to Dr.
Stanley. Well, no, I think Dr. Stanley wants to say a few words and then we'll jump into the
examples as soon as he feels we're ready. Well, sounds good. Well, for the sake of people who,
for whom the time has passed between listening to the first video and this one today,
I'll give a quick summary of things that we talked about there. We've been exploring Paul's
Gentile problem. And what I mean by that is how Paul deals with the question of the role of
Gentiles or non-Jews in God's plan. And why did he talk about this so much in his letters?
I was noting last time that there's been a move in the last few decades of academic scholarship
to recognize that this question of Jews and Gentiles is really central to Paul's thought,
and that the things that were traditionally seen as central in terms of the centrality of
justification by faith alone, certainly that's important for Paul, but that's a subset of a
broader issue that he's dealing with in a real world social context of relationships of Jews
and non-Jews in this early Christian community. I talked for a good little while about where
his term come from, the Hebrew Bible or Old Testament roots of the idea, the term that
eventually comes to be rendered in the New Testament by the word ethne, which can mean
either nations in a literal sense of different entities of people groups around, or Paul also
can use it as a generic, undifferentiated term for all people who are not Jews. And we saw that
this is not just Paul, this is something that was already being done in the Septuagint, the Greek
translation of the Hebrew Bible before Paul's day that he uses, it was also done by other Christians.
But Paul is the one who really, as far as the written documents in the New Testament gets
digs deeply into this, because he is a Jew, you know, we've got to keep in mind, Paul, when he
becomes a Christ follower, he's not, quote, becoming a Christian, unquote. There was no such thing as
Christianity. We don't know exactly when Paul has his life changing encounter with Jesus,
maybe two or three years after the resurrection, just a guess, because it took some time for
Christianity to spread enough that Paul could be engaged in trying to help stamp it out.
But he was a very devout Jew, and he thought about the world in Jewish terms. And so that carried
with it the notion of all these non-Jews being lumped together as sinners who are polytheists,
people who are rejected by God, or standard of God's judgment. There's a lot of polemic
in Jewish circles against Gentiles and their condom. Paul, however, does something interesting
and unusual in his letters. Whereas other Jews recognized ethnic diversity in the ancient world,
and for example, Joseph Seifers refers to 40 different ethnic groups at one time or another.
Paul does not. He bifurcates reality into two categories. In fact, if you want to go to the one
after that, the one that does have that language about Paul bifurcation, there we go. You know,
Paul has certain patterns he uses, where he uses one term for Jews and another term for non-Jews.
He doesn't always use the term ethnic, which is the first one in that box on the right,
the Gentiles. He uses various other terms. One of the terms that he uses that is distinctive,
we can go back to the slide we had there, is he uses the term Greeks over a dozen times.
And the traditional understanding of this is it was just a matter of linguistic variation.
And I was unpacking some last time that, whereas the term Gentiles was a Jewish
in-group term for outsiders, that nobody who was a non-Jew would have used. Nobody said,
I'm an ethnos or an ethne. It doesn't even make any sense. There were people going around
saying, I'm a Helene. I am a Greek. And people who identified themselves as a people, as Greeks.
And they were the people whose culture and language dominated this world since the time of
Alexander the Great conquering it. And they were ruling over, they had been the ones ruling in the
cities. They were displaced by the Romans, but they continued, Greek elites continued to dominate
the cities where these Jews lived. And I was unpacking that there's a whole history of
a couple of centuries of documented conflict between people who self-identified as Udioi,
the Greek word behind Jews, and as Helene, the Greek word for Greeks. And that there was a lot
of interethnic prejudice and negativity and hostility that lay just beneath the surface
when we were not having these open outbreaks. And so I was saying that when Paul is using this
language, he's not just doing a linguistic variation. He is actually intentionally targeting
this interethnic hostility because he's trying to bring together people in these little house
churches from different ethnic groups who don't like each other. And he's dealing implicitly and
sometimes a little more explicitly with those tensions. That leads us finally into what I said
that Paul's Gentile problem then, and you can take that down now. When we talk about Paul's Gentile
problem, traditionally that was the question is the question of where do Gentiles fit into God's
plan for humanity that he worked out in what Christians would call the Old Testament with the
Jews. And that's really one aspect of Paul's problem that he's hammering out and trying to
chew into with regard to Gentiles. And I would call that the theological element of it. But I
was saying that there were three other aspects also of Paul's problems that he's dealing with
with regard to Gentiles. A second one has to do with a, for lack of a better term, a political
problem. The Romans favored and provided protection for Jews against intrusions upon their religion
by the Greek authorities in various cities. And for Jews, but they did not for Christians,
they were always worried about these novel groups that were seen as subversive. And so
partly behind the question about some of these Christ followers wanting to be circumcised
and obey the Jewish laws, it pops up repeatedly and calls letters, is a matter of gaining social
protection. Because if they can say, well, we're really Jews, then they can benefit from those
positive protections. And if they're not, and the Jews were trying to push them out, then they,
you know, they're exposed and they can get in trouble. So that's a second aspect of it. Paul
is dealing with how do these kind of security mighty divide these Gentiles in this rather
exposed positions they have in the local civic social lifestyle. The third one I mentioned
already is the social dimension, how to bring together these people in these real world gatherings
that are meeting every week and are engaging one another when you've got people who've got a history
of negativity toward one another. And the final one was the missional side that Paul has this
perplexing problem that while he as a Jew, like other people thought originally, this was a message
just for Jews, he in his own calling to be a follower recognizes that God is sending him out
to the Gentiles and the nations. And yet as and that's where he finds success, but he sees
the Jews who he also continues to reach out to mostly rejecting his message, the message
about their own crucified Messiah as he sees it. And so he's trying to make sense out of this,
his own missionary experience, and how he should target his efforts. Should he just give up on
the Jews as God given up on the Jews? Or you know, what should he do? Or should he continue trying to
reach out to them as he says, his heart desires that they be saved. And so last time, and I'll wrap
up with this, we worked carefully through Paul's letter to the Romans as the place where this
question is occupying central place. And essentially, we saw how these theological arguments about all
humans being sinners and need of the saving death of Jesus for human sin, if we just put it in those
terms, we're neglecting the whole package in which that is embedded where Paul repeatedly brings up
Jews and Gentiles, Jews and Greeks in the course of making that point, because he starts out in
chapters one and two by essentially coming down on the polytheistic Gentiles, also coming down on
Jews who are not faithful to their laws. He does seem to allow for the possibility that could be
Gentiles who know and live the way God wants even without having the law, and that it could be Jews
who are faithful to the laws. But in Romans three, quoting scripture, he says, scripture says,
everybody is sinners, therefore, everyone needs the salvation God offers through faith in Jesus.
And we went on through how he unpacks that even more detail in Romans nine through 11,
where he's saying, what does this mean about the Jews then? And where one might think that he was
going to say, well, you know, they're passe, they're no longer what God is doing in this new era that's
been introduced with the death and resurrection of Jesus. That's not where he goes. He as a Jew
believes that God is faithful to his people, that he must uphold his covenant loyalty, as we see
in the Jewish scriptures, the Christian Old Testament. And so his argument, rather ingenious,
wrote a bit perplexing, is that God has intentionally hardened the hearts of the Jews
so that the message will go out to the Gentiles because God's ultimate plan was not just to have
this one little people group of the Jews as his people, but God, that was kind of act one of a
two act play where God's full plan was to bring all the nations in relation to himself in such a
way that everyone is kind of on an equal plane. And that has to be, it was the death and resurrection
of Jesus that forms that fulcrum. And so the message will go out, he says to the Gentiles,
the gender Jews have to be compelled to go out and do that because most of them would not have
done so otherwise. And yet he argues that the Jews will become jealous of the salvation,
the good things that God's work is working among the Gentiles. And therefore, at some
end of the days, just before the end comes, which Paul believes is going to happen during his lifetime,
there'll be a massive recognition by Jews of what God has done and say, hey, we won't end on that too.
And so, you know, whether that is something we find convincing, what one thinks of it,
is perhaps another question. But this seems to satisfy Paul, that he can then hold on to the
faithfulness of God to his people Israel on the one hand, and explain the Gentile mission and its
success and why these most Jews are rejecting his message, on the other hand. And I ended by saying
that in various ways, this answers those four aspects of Paul's Gentile problem. Theologically,
it helps him to understand where Gentiles and Jews get into God's plan. Politically, it gives
something of perhaps a cover and argument that these people can use to say, well, we are really
Jews, just a kind of a different type. In terms of the social side, it provides about an insistence
that Jews and Gentiles are on the same plane before God, they can't bring this ethnic hostility
into this community. And then finally, it gives him a guidance that he's okay to continue this
mission to the Gentiles and not to be worked up too much about his own people not responding,
because that's something that's primarily going to be withheld in the future, because that's God's
plan to extend this. So that's my quick summary from last time. I wonder if Derek or Stephen,
you don't want to add anything to that or raise any further questions or issues that we maybe
didn't get to before we move on to 1 Corinthians and Galatians, Colossians, Ephesians.
Yeah, so before we move on, Derek and I were discussing this yesterday and we were thinking of
doing a little segue to have you clarify something regarding Philo, because we discussed it in the
last episode and it was a little out of left field and it's not in your Pauline wheelhouse, per se.
But I mentioned this example from Philo because it seemed like he was using language in a similar
way to Paul. And Derek, I put it in the studio as a separate slide show called Philo, if you
want to pull it up so you can actually see it on screen. But basically the question we had for you
is, I'll read it real quick, not only Jews, but almost every other people, particularly those
which take more account of virtue, have so far grown in holiness as to value and honor our laws
throughout the world of Greeks and barbarians. There is practically no state which honors the
institutions of any other. And then after an ellipsis he says, we may fairly say that mankind
from east to west, every country and nation and state shoe aversion to foreign institutions,
it is not so with ours, the Jewish tradition. They attract and win the attention of all of
barbarians, of Greeks, of dwellers on the mainland and islands of nations, of the east and the west
of Europe and Asia, of the whole inhabited world, the equal many, from end to end. So the question
yesterday was regarding the way that Philo seems to bifurcate everybody from between Jews and every
other people. He doesn't use the term ethnic the way that Paul does here, but he also bifurcates
the rest of the world into barbarians and Greeks, ethnically. And you mentioned that because Philo
is so thoroughly Hellenized, perhaps more so than Paul and steeped in Platonism and Greek
philosophy, coming from that Alexandrian Jewish background, that he might actually consider
himself in some sense to be, Hellenist would be anachronistic, but a Hellene or a Greek on some
cultural level, although not on an ethnic level. But I don't know personally having not really dug
into Philo a whole lot. I haven't seen any instance where he outright would identify as a Hellene.
So we just wanted you to clarify that. Would a Hellenistic Jew like Philo, who is very friendly
towards the Greeks, consider himself in any sense, at least culturally, to be a Greek and actually
adopt that label? Yeah, that's a great passage to enable me to unpack a couple of things that I
intentionally kind of oversimplified last time, because of the time factors.
While I emphasize the history of hostility between Jews and Greeks, there were also
the same intellectual and oriented Greeks and Romans who admired Judaism. And some of those,
as we touched on last time, became so attracted that they began to attend Jewish synagogues.
And we talked last time about that Luke in the Book of Acts calls these people God-fearers,
not that they were afraid of God, but they honor the God of Israel. And these are the kind of people
that Philo has in mind here, at least exaggerating immensely, when he says,
everybody loves us and admires us. Even in Alexandria where he lived, during his lifetime,
there was a massive public riot and pogrom against the Jews of Alexandria, so by a mob.
And so obviously he knows that there's plenty of that as well. He actually is quite an embassy
that goes to Caligula in Rome to try to get some relief from the local prejudice. So
Philo can't always be trusted to give an accurate representation. He simply,
there were a lot of the more Hellenized Jews like Philo, made a point of trying to commend
Judaism to Greeks by exaggerating not only the attractiveness that it finds with some of them,
but also by saying, in essence, the Greeks got everything from us.
Josephus does that to some extent too, exaggerating the popularity of Judaism.
Josephus does the same thing in some other passages that I'm not going to pull up.
Exactly. But Philo, living in Alexandria, in the midst of a very big city, he can
highlight, he's one of many people who would say, the Greeks learned from us about one,
the Greek philosophers, who kind of recognized one creative God behind it all. They got it from
Moses and they got this, that, and the other from us. And so in essence, they want to say,
you owe us a lot. And of course, any problem, we don't know if any non-Jewish Greek ever read
Philo, it was primarily for internal Jewish community consumption. But if they did,
they would have found that argument laughable. But nonetheless, back to your other, your second
point of that, yes, well, Philo considered himself a Greek as much easier to Jew, because
Greek is, you know, when we think of Greek, just like we think about Jew, both of these are
categories that we tend to think of in terms of, you know, physical, at least a myth of physical
and geographic ancestry. So, you know, Greeks are people who somehow whose ancestors originated in
Greece, Jews are people whose ancestors somehow originated Israel or Judah. But in reality,
both of these groups had porous boundaries. And one of the articles that I referenced last time
that we're going to find a way to post for viewers to look at explores that idea of
modern social scientific understandings of ethnicity, recognize that ethnicity is not a
matter of some kind of a fixed content with sharp boundaries, but rather ethnicity is about
ways of maintaining boundaries between other groups that can be porous. And so a person could
become a Jew by being circumcised, you know, obeying the laws of Torah and affiliating with the Jews,
as we saw last time. But the same was true of Greeks. Native peoples in Egypt and Palestine
and elsewhere could learn Greek language, adopt Greek culture, dress like a Greek, go to the
gymnasium, enroll their kids in educational training, etc. And they could be considered
and consider themselves and be considered by others as Greeks. And so interestingly, you
mentioned Josephus, when he is talking about conflicts in Israel itself, around the 10 years
leading up to and the beginning of the Jewish revolt against the Romans in 66 AD, he alternates
between calling the locals Greeks and Syrians. And when he's talking about Alexandria, he'll
alternate between calling them Greeks and Egyptians. So the terms are not fixed categories. So it was
just a Jew. And then ultimately, long winded answer to say, a Jew could continue to consider
himself also a Greek, and it not be seen as a betrayal of monotheism. It didn't require
necessarily adopting the gods of the Greeks. Is that kind of address all that passage you want to
talk about? Yeah. Yeah, I think it's just a terminal, terminological question. It's just like,
would Philo or Josephus or even Paul refer to Hellenized Jews as edginess?
I mean, I just haven't seen examples of that. I've looked for them, but I don't know if there
are any examples of that. Oh, those Greeks, when they really mean those Hellenized Jews.
I think that in Philo's case, could you find a text where he says, I am a Greek? No.
Okay. Yeah, that was the question. Yeah. Yeah. But he is
conversant in all the aspects of Greek culture and embraces it with the exception, of course,
of the big gods. He's an honorary Greek. Yeah. Is it fair to dumb it down even more,
just to say it point blank? And this is for dum-dums like me. Would Philo or would Paul
or would Josephus call a Jew Greek at all? Like, hey, you're a Greek.
Is there anywhere that is explicit? Because then it's confusing to know.
I don't think about passages or anything, but did people who were, I mean, I'll broaden the
question to say, did an Egyptian who adopts Greek culture going around saying, I'm a Greek?
It's more a matter of how you are recognized by people outside. Hey, he's a Greek because the
way he thinks, the way he acts, the way he lives because of his social engagement,
we can accept him as a member of our people here. And so it's, you know, I've got to think about,
did people go around kind of using it as a label that they made a point on just in general?
I mean, the example that comes to mind for me is like Mark 726. I mean, it's far away from Paul,
but, you know, there there's a woman, Ginny, who is in El Ines. She's Greek, but she's also,
she's a Greek syrophoenician of origin, like either syrophoenica or syrophoenica. And it's
like, what is that? Like, how did readers of Mark interpret that? Like, who is she then? Is she
syrophoenician or is she Greek? Or is she just like Greek and cultureated syrophoenician? I don't
know the answer to that. And so you can, again, you can be both. And so that I mentioned, I used
last time the example of someone who is from a Latin American native community and a variety of
different terms they might use as their ethnic identity, depending on the context. And so if
when you're in the Jewish community, you're a Jew. When you're working at Gimnasium, you would kind
of present as a Greek. And there are ways of, it's, it's to exhibit yourself as a Udias or a
Helene, or a Helene, is a matter of practice. And so it's, you live in a certain way. And so
that's how you set yourself forth to others as someone who fits that category. And then if you
kind of don't fully, you know, live up to it, then it comes a question of, do outsiders accept you
as such or not? You might claim to be a Greek and they say, no, you're not. You know, yeah.
And I'll try to wrap up the segue. But one interesting point is that when we were prepping
for this, I was trying to, I was trying to persuade Dr. Stanley to discuss the term Hellenist
in the context of this, this interview. And, and he pointed out to me, I blew my mind that, oh,
well, that, that term only actually occurs in the book of Acts, and we don't even really know what
it means. And I was like, really? And it turns out, if you look at like the textual commentaries,
not only did the scribes like sometimes write over it and put Greek because they were confused
about what it means is like the comment, like people just literally that was like,
it either an anachronism or just some term that comes up much later where it was retroactively
applied. Oh, you're a Hellenist, which means you're not quite Greek, but you're just sort of Greek
and culture and cultureated. That was not in Paul's vocabulary at all. Yeah. And also you might draw
the equal, the parallel on the other side that in Galatians two, when Paul is confronting Peter,
he says, you're trying to get Gentiles to Judei eyes. In both case, it's putting the same verbal
suffix on to an adjective to as a way of talking about kind of the, the identity that one is seeking
to present by the way one behaves. So I think that it's not a matter of are you descended from
Abraham or you descended, you know, do answers come from Greece? You can be a person who is
seeking to live and act in that way and to be recognized as such. So like in chapter two of
Galatians, a part about Judaizing, again, you want to look enough like a Jew that you can be
recognized as one and be X have those social protections that come to Jews in the local
community. So I'm distracted us. Yeah. Yeah. Great point. I'm really glad. And it's a complicated
topic. And it's good to be able to kind of explicate it a bit. And again, just continue harping on the
fact that you need to understand the social world and linguistic world and how terms are used and
how people related in the real social realities of Paul's day in order to understand what he's doing.
And that's what I keep trying to do in these interviews we've had. And so we'll continue to try
to do that some as we look at these other passages. All right, well, let me throw first Corinthians
121-25 at you and get your comments. For since in the wisdom of God, the world actually hold on
a second, Stephen, because I want to say a couple of words about, no, actually, let's do that. Let's
go ahead and read that passage. I want to go back to a couple earlier versions, but I can do it in
the context of discussing this passage. So first point is 121-25. Go ahead. For since in the wisdom
of God, the world did not know God through wisdom, God decided through the foolishness of our proclamation
to save those who believe for Jews demand signs and Greeks desire wisdom. But we proclaim Christ
crucified a stumbling block for Jews and foolishness to Gentiles. But to those who are called
both Jews and Greeks, Christ, the power of God and the wisdom of God, for God's foolishness is wiser
than human wisdom and God's weakness is stronger than human strength.
Oh, you're on mute. Sorry about that. Hit the wrong button.
Great, thanks. So this is an interesting passage, both from a terminological standpoint,
because Paul in that center of that block changes from Greeks to Gentiles and back to Greeks,
but also from a standpoint of, you know, conceptually, what is he doing here?
And so I want to, you know, he noticed he's got a strong distinction, a strong emphasis on the word
wisdom throughout this passage. The word philosophy in Greek means love of wisdom,
and every any ancient Greek who was of the elite class of people,
the education they had led up to an intensive study from several years of either Greek philosophy
or Greek rhetoric, which is where most people went, or some combination of the two. Interestingly,
if we go back to the couple of verses before this, it's sometimes overlooked by people who
don't understand this background, he starts out in verse 18 saying, well, the message of the cross
is foolishness to those who are perishing, that is, to non-Christians. But to us who are being
saved, it is the power of God, for it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise and the
discernment of the discerning, I will thwart. I think he has a couple of interesting rhetorical
questions. Where is the one who is wise, that verse talked about the wise? Where is the scribe,
the person who's educated and knows how to interpret texts? And he says, where is the
debater of this age, the retor, the orator? These are Greek terms. These are terms that the, you
know, he's essentially targeting in the beginning of this, those who would think
that Greek culture gives you what you need in order to be a superior person in the study of
rhetoric and philosophy and the ability to interpret texts. And he says, those are nothing,
he goes on to say, has God not made foolish the wisdom of the world? And by this wisdom of the
world, he's kind of encompassing in the background, I think he's got in mind there, you know, Greek
culture, Greek education, the things that everybody else values as being the epitome of a superior
and educated person who ought to have power in society and dominate over others and things like
that. And then he gets into the passage we had quoted here. And so he picks up on wisdom, I think
here is an intentional way of engaging indirectly with what he actually does directly partway through
there when he brings in Greeks. Again, this Jew Greek dichotomy. In this case, he's got, I think,
both the social dimension at work of Jews and Greeks in his own community saying basically,
you know, you're all in the same bad boat, you're all fools because of not recognizing
what God is doing and sending Jesus to die for human sin where he talks about
his message of proclamation of Christ crucifying. But he sees they both he's unpacking an
interesting little point here that they each reject it for different reasons. Jews, he says,
demand signs and Greeks desire wisdom. Notice the emphasis Greeks desire wisdom. Greeks love
wisdoms, i.e. philosophy, right? What does he mean? Jews demand signs. Well, in the Greek world,
this term, you know, when later elsewhere in Paul, he uses the term signs and wonders to talk about
the miracles that come through his ministry. You get that language right out of the Septuagint,
where the miracles that God does at the Exodus story are called signs and wonders.
And several other times in the Hebrew Bible, God's mighty acts are referred to as signs,
using the same Greek word that he uses here. And so he seems to have in mind his own tradition,
where it is the miraculous works of God that are seen as the proof of God's truth, the proof that
you've gotten to the truth. And for Greeks, it's through philosophy that you seek after the truth.
And so Paul is choosing the distinctive aspect that each of these groups uses to identify truth
and saying, you're all a bunch of fools. You're all a bunch of idiots. This doesn't get you there.
In fact, it leads you astray. It leads you into false ideas. You've got to be willing,
both of you people, who think that you've got a special path to knowledge of the absolute truth,
the divine aspects of the universe, because the Greek wisdom is divinity. I mean, it's the knowledge
of wisdom is the knowledge of the world as it is, including the divine. It's not just, you know,
concepts in and of itself. And so in their efforts to know and understand the divine,
to claim that they know it all, Jews and Greeks have different paths, but they're both led into
the equally dead-ended forms of knowledge, as Paul says, because it's only through recognizing
the truth of what God has in fact done a miracle, a sign that it's not evident as one. In fact,
a crucified Messiah, he recognizes, is the opposite of something that makes sense and it
shows a work of power. So he says that the power of God, God's foolishness is wiser than human
wisdom. His weakness is stronger than human strength. What God does in this is takes this
absolutely meaningless thing. You know, a crucified Messiah is a stumbling block to Jews. Why? Because
nobody believed a Messiah was supposed to get crucified. A Messiah is supposed to come in,
lead an army, drive out the Romans, etc., etc. And so the idea that a crucified Messiah is the one
through whom God worked is just ludicrous. It's foolish, a stumbling block to Jews. And it's
foolishness to Gentiles, both in the sense that crucifixion was the punishment that Romans used,
and Greeks actually did use it some before them, to punish the worst of sinners, the worst of,
you know, rebels, the scum of the earth, if you will. And to say that the person you're going to
worship was crucified, I mean, that's just absolutely ridiculous. And then the idea was raised from the
dead. We see this in Acts chapter 17, and also in 1 Corinthians 15, we see this illusion, stupid.
Greeks just cannot comprehend this idea of why anybody would want to come back in a physical
body. You know, the Greek goal is to be liberated, have the immortal soul to be liberated from the
prison house of the body, the material reality. And so the idea of that a God somewhere raised
somebody from the dead, that's a good thing, and that we should aspire to be raised from the dead,
you know, it's just absolutely crazy. And so Paul is saying, you know, it may look that way,
but that is what God is doing. Both parties, you've got to come down off your high horses,
and submit your inner, you know, lay aside your intellect, lay aside your understanding of how
you get to truth. And see, there's only one way it comes to believing the message about what God
has done in sending Jesus. Now he's shifted, he does shift to Gentiles and middle last thing I'll
say here. But I think in this case, he simply as I would argue, just simply including it as a broader
thing is not just Greeks who have a problem with this message, but it's all non Jews who have similar
concerns or much the same reason you don't have to be a Greek to know that crucifixion is a punishment
for wicked people. And this distinctively Jewish idea of resurrection that was not held by other
people in the ancient world, but I mean, equally ludicrous, if you were not a follower of Greek
God, but God's, but of some other gods. So in the end, Paul is essentially both on a theological
level, putting Jews, Greeks, Jews, Gentiles on a similar level and trying to knock them off their
pedestals and say they've got a single place of unity here at the cross of Christ, but also on a
social level. It's in, you know, don't be, there's no reason for you to think that you have got some
special corner on the truth and that you can look down your nose at the other party rather
we're all together here. And I'll say one last thing. He extends this in the verses that follow
to talk about socioeconomic distinctions and everything that, that a Greek or Roman world
value, he says is nothing to God. And he says God shows what is, what is low and despised in the
world, things that are not to confuse the things that are. And so he says before that, not many
of you were wise by human standards. You're not educated. You're not people who have gone through
all the benefits that Greek culture offers. Not many of you are powerful. You don't exercise
positions of dominance in the society to be held by people who identify themselves as Greeks.
You're not many of you have noble birth in the ancient world. Your birth, your lineage was
everything in terms of defining who you are in your pecking order in society. And even though
they didn't understand genetics in the way we do today, they would say no, not all, all people are
not made equal. Some people are made genetically superior to other people. It wasn't a racial
ethnic thing, but it was a class thing. So those on the top are also superior Greeks on the top
or superior to Greeks who are lower down on the social pecking order too. So this Paul says none
of these things that elite Greek and Roman society values are proper values of worth. God in fact
chooses those on the bottom. And he confutes all human value systems, both those ethnic hostilities
and those social hierarchies and says none of that has any place in this new world,
these new house churches in this new that God is building and this new world he's about to bring
all exist on the same plane. This is a radically counter cultural vision that he has here. And
you can see why it would have led people to reject them and to think they're crazy, think they're
dreamy, totally apart from the offense of the gospel. But these are wild eyed utopian visionaries
here trying to promote something that cannot possibly work. So a bit of explication there
beyond what you might hear in church about this practice. Let me stop. And I have a couple of
very nerdy notes to make on just the language here because there are some rhetorical elements that
don't really come through in the translation. But when he says we proclaim Christ crucified,
a stumbling block to Jews and foolishness to the Gentiles, he's actually using a very classical
formulation that doesn't translate well. He's saying on the one hand, it's a stumbling block
to Jews, on the one hand doesn't get translated usually. And on the other hand, or by contrast,
it's foolishness to Gentiles. So even though the translation is masking this, he's really
juxtaposing these two groups here saying on the one hand you have the Jews and on the other hand
you have the Gentiles. And this is one of those instances where even though a lot of the time
when you see that term ethne used, it can go either way, it could mean Gentiles, it could
mean nations, it could be here, it means Gentiles for sure. Because you can't have nations in the
anachronistic sense of the nation state or just sort of a group of people like that
considering something to be foolish, right? Only individuals can consider something to
be foolish. And that's why this is a really prime example of Paul's individualized Gentiles.
And when he says Christ, the power of God and the wisdom of God, it really, it's almost painful
to read. It feels like a run-on sentence in English, but it's actually connected with
we proclaim Christ crucified, we proclaim Christ the power of God and the wisdom of God. Because
in Greek Christ is in the accusative case, again nerdy stuff, but it actually does connect and
sound good in Greek and in English translators don't know quite how to do it. It just it just
ends up being a run-on sentence. You'll find in the new English translation it says Christ is the
power of God and the wisdom of God, but that's not really what it says. It's just the the verb
we proclaim is just carried over in the the Greek syntax, and it just it sounds bad in English.
And I didn't try to make it sound better, but it's a guy who just got back from Greece a couple
of weeks ago has been speaking Greek. Yeah, I apologize. I know, super nerdy. We'll go to the
next example. Okay, so could I read it first? Do you have a couple comments?
Okay. We're skipping from chapter one over to chapter 10. Paul in Corinthians is writing to
probably an exclusively Gentile, that is non-Jewish audience. And so there's not as much compulsion
for him to deal explicitly with these Jew Gentile questions after he kind of lays these foundations.
And even the reason he's getting into it at the beginning is not just because he decided,
hey, I need to talk about this. It was rooted in the context of where he says, people are saying,
there's a lot of divisions in the church in Corinth and people saying, I'm of Paul, I'm of Jesus,
I'm of Sipha, Sipha, Paulus, whatever. And he says, no, no, no, no. You know, all these partisan
kinds of thinking and hostility, in addition to the class and the ethnic ones, all that's got to go.
But he's responding also to or to a letter he got from the Corinthians with concrete problems
that they are fighting over. And he's also responding to an oral report he's gotten,
most likely from the family or slaves of a woman named Chloe, he talks about this toward the end
of the letter, telling him things are going on. So he has a very concrete mission to address real
world problems this church is dealing with. And so he digs into that pretty quickly, beginning
in chapter five and following. And so he still eventually comes back to the Jew Greek things,
because there's a problem that arises in chapter eight, that is indirectly implicated in that.
And that is this question about whether it's okay to eat meat that is sacrificed to pagan gods.
I mentioned this briefly last time, but just worth a little bit more unpacking,
that wealthy people in the ancient world, and this was a tiny, tiny fraction of the society,
you know, 1%, 3%, ate meat when everything liked, they had plenty of money and, you know,
could buy whatever they want. The great mass of people ate meat rarely. It was something
that was expensive, something that they didn't have access to. And the one time that they
had free access to meat, more than any other, was at public festivals. Every city would have a
multiple, a multiple public festivals during the year, honoring the patron god or goddess and his,
his or her special days and events and other things like that. And they were also growing in the time
of Paul, imperial temples being set up here and there, where similar things are being done to the
emperor. And on days like that, the sacrificial meat, there'd be massive animal sacrifices as part
of it, and the sacrificial meat would be distributed for free to anybody and everybody. And so for
people at the lower end of the social spectrum, there was a strong association of eating meat
with worshiping other gods. And so this seems to be the issue behind this. You have these people
who are now becoming Christians, and they're recognizing that in the Jewish scriptures,
and in this Christian community drawing out, going out of that, there's just one god, you know,
and this god says, don't worship any other gods, don't have any images of me, don't sacrifice to
other gods. And so now they're troubled by this question of, well, is it okay then to eat this
meat when it comes out? Is that participating in idolatry or not? And so Paul has in chapter 8,
and also it comes back to it in chapter 10. He debates and discusses this, and in essence,
what he says is that meat is just meat. There's no harm in eating it. Those gods don't exist.
They're not, to me, it's not somehow contaminated. But he says, if this meat, eating this meat,
is going to cause somebody to think you are in fact believing in and worshiping these other gods,
and you should lay aside your freedom, so as not to cause offense and cause that person to
turn away from Christ. And of course, it's this whole Jewish background that's putting up that's
helping to raise these questions. So it really is implicitly a Jew, a Jew Gentile, and to some
degree even a Jew Greek kind of issue with the background. Is it okay because those who identified
as the Greeks were the authorities in the city who managed the sacrificial system and who managed
these public events of worship and who distributed the meat and all that kind of thing. So it's in
the background, even though it's not explicit here. So finally, after addressing this question,
Paul comes at the end of it in chapter 10 to these couple of verses here, where he again brings in
Jews and Greeks, and he also does something else peculiar. So Stephen, if you want to read this,
1 Corinthians 10, 31 to 33. So whether you eat or drink or whatever you do, do everything for the
glory of God. Give no offense to Jews or to Greeks or to the church of God, just as I also try to
please everyone in all things, not seeking my own advantage, but that of many, so that they may be
saved. Alright, interesting. Give no offense to Jews or to Greeks or to the church of God,
the assembly, the ecclesia, which is a word used in the Greek translation of the Hebrew Bible
to talk about the people of Israel. They are the ecclesia of God. So what's going on here?
Well, Paul is saying, give no offense to these people. What does he mean by that? Well, if you
think about this whole episode I just described about meat being offered, meat that's being
given out in the sacrifices. On the one hand, if you're invited to participate in this,
he actually does talk in chapter 10 even about if you are invited to go to a Greek temple to eat,
and he doesn't say there's anything wrong with that. It's okay. He implies to go to the temple and
eat there, but if you say no, you're going to be offending your Greek hosts, and he doesn't want
people to unnecessarily offend non-Christians and cause them to reject the gospel for a wrong reason.
And so he says, don't offend those people. Go along and eat the meat. It's nothing. On the other hand,
don't offend Jews by eating it if someone under the influence of someone who is a Jew
or someone in the Christian community who is influenced by Judaism says, hey, you're doing
idolatry. Well, you don't want to offend them either. You don't want to be careful
under what circumstance. Probably not a lot of Jews in Corinth to be offending, but there were some
there. Or to the Church of God. And I think here what he's talking about is that the one he calls
a brother who might, a Christian, who might say, hey, you shouldn't be doing that. You know, that's
idolatry. Don't offend that person either. Don't cause a scandal on that same word that was used
back there in the earlier passage for that person. And so he's got three different kind of groups
in mind here, all of which have a particular setting in this debate discussion about is it okay to
eat this meat offered to pagan gods? And when he says, do this, just as I try to please everyone
in all things, he's just been saying in chapter nine in the middle of this discussion, as kind of
example of his own behavior, how when he's around Jews, and we mentioned this last time, he behaves
like a Jew. And when he's around, so as not to offend them unnecessarily by violating the laws of
Torah and causing them to reject Jesus and Messiah. And when he's around Gentiles, he lays aside his
observance of the Jewish of the Jewish laws so that they are not going to be offended by, for
example, as we'll see in Galatians in a minute, him saying, hey, I can't eat with you Gentiles,
because you're unclean. You know, no, he says, don't let the laws and these other things be a barrier
to spreading the message about Jesus. It makes you look inconsistent because you're obeying the
laws in some place and not in others as he did. So be it. You just don't want to offend them.
Spreading the truth to people is more important than maintaining a consistency of behavior
in relation to the laws of Judaism. So I try to please everyone who says, why so that they may
be saying because ultimately that's Paul's goal. That's his vision. That's his mission to bring the
end time salvation to God, to Jews and Gentiles alike in the short time that remains before
Jesus returns and wraps up and brings it into all things. So you want to comment and question that?
I'd like to move on to chapter 12, but I think we have we have two verses that are pretty close
together. So maybe I could do them both in succession so we could push through the Galatians.
Yeah. Anybody either of you want to comment or I think that was like a really thorough one on
everything going on in chapter 10. Yeah. The only comment I could say is when he says not
seeking my own advantage, I'm thinking of 1 Corinthians 9 when he starts talking about money
and he's talking about looks. I didn't even need any, you know, I didn't need your money. I worked
for my own like these other brothers, you know, they're seeking money. It's not about the money.
So I wonder if that's a point of it, but it could be just simply, look, I'll starve if I need to so
that I don't stumble a friend. That's fine. So anyway, yeah. Yeah. I mean, he sells elsewhere,
you know, in Philippians 4, he knows how to have a lot of stuff. He knows what it is to be hungry.
So and some of that was involuntary. We know from 2 Corinthians 11, he lays out all these
sufferings he had, but yeah, could it have been voluntary, you know, set laying aside? I'm really
hungry. I really would like some of that meat. I've either got a week here, but I guess maybe I
shouldn't for this reason. That's an interesting point I hadn't thought about. Okay. So we'll skip
over to 1 Corinthians chapter 12, where Paul, the only other place in the letter,
where he explicitly brings in these issues about Jews and Gentiles, Jews and Greeks,
and something very unusual in chapter 12, verses 1 to 3 here. So if you want to read this for us,
Stephen, then I'll comment on it. Okay. Now concerning spiritual gifts, brothers, I do not
want you to be uninformed. You know that when you Gentiles were led astray to idols that were mute,
therefore, I want you to understand that no one speaking by the Spirit of God says,
let Jesus be cursed. And no one can say, Jesus is Lord, except by the Holy Spirit.
Great. I don't know. I don't want to put you on the spot, Stephen, here, but I don't accept your
translation of that vital part there. I don't know how you got. You know that when you Gentiles
were led astray, the, I guess they there is, you were led wandering, et cetera, and the Ate goes
with the Ethno. I don't remember which, it's a translation from the Hermania commentary, and I'm
linking on the name of the commentator. But basically, he puts up, he puts forth an argument
about the different translations of this, because as you know, I don't have them in front of me,
but a lot of the times when you get this reference in translations, because it seems like Paul is
saying, when you were Gentiles in the past tense, because it seems like he's indicating that they've
somehow changed from a state of being Gentiles to now presumably not being Gentiles anymore,
because they're Christians, that is what inspires a lot of translators to render
Ethni as pagans, which you have stated that you don't like. So basically, his argument is that no,
it's overly complicated to get into the syntax here. But essentially, he's saying that it's,
the implication here is not that you were Gentiles in the past tense, but that you were
let astray, and that Ethni can go with Prostaita la taafuna. And so it's not 100% clear in this
context or in Ephesians, which we might get to, whether or not it's actually possible that Paul
thought that these people were no longer Gentiles, that he's still addressing them as they are, they
are still Gentiles. That's the point. I think it's grammatically quite clear. I think the problem is
that declaration, when you were Gentiles, you were let astray, and that sounds like, well,
wait a minute, but they are still Gentiles. Well, I think that a lot of the unnecessary concern
here is unnecessary, because it assumes, again, that Paul is working with fixed categories that
don't have any flexibility and boundaries. I would add that in the brackets there,
Ote is a textual variant, which may reflect the scribes struggling with this as well.
I don't have a footnote for the exact textual apparatus, but the Ote is not in all of the
manuscripts. Some of the manuscripts read, either they Ote, Ethni, Ethni, Ethni, et cetera, et cetera.
Yeah. But the point I want to make is that for Paul, something I said last time is odd as it
might sound to us, and it's something that I'm going to be unpacking in this book I'm working on.
Gentile for Paul is not only just a generic term that Jews would use for non-Jews,
but it is an ideological category, a part of a theological category might be better,
that subsumes all the different people groups, and that they necessarily have to identify with
in order to transition into being Christ followers. So even though there were not people going around
saying, I'm a Gentile, in Paul's thought world, they are all Gentile sinners, and that's why God
has extended his grace and his message to them. And so in an ideological sense, Gentile can indeed be
a phase one passes through on the direct, on the on the transition being a Greek or a Syrian or
Egyptian into being a Christ follower. You have to ideologically pass through the category of Gentile
sinners. And so I think that's what he is doing here. And as an example, a couple other examples,
we'll look at the ones in Ephesians later, and then there are certainly a couple of
clear passages there where they say this and the debates over when that's Paul or not,
but another place we see it implicit is in this same letter in 1 Corinthians 5 chapter 1,
where he says, it is actually reported that there is a sexual immorality among you,
and of a kind that is not even found among, and we have again this wrong translation,
mine here says among pagan, so it's among the Gentiles. You're behaving in a way that's not
even found among the Gentiles, where he's making an implicit distinction on the one hand between
you on the one hand and the Gentiles on the other hand. And so it seems that that once you
become a Christ follower, Gentiles becomes an outgroup term for those sinners who are not yet
part of the followers of Jesus. However, having said that, I'm going to take back what I just said,
and so how complicated Paul's reasoning is, or his use of term is, and I say you can't push him
to be consistent. There are also a couple of texts where he clearly says he refers to Christ powers
as Gentiles. One of them in Romans chapter 15, I'm sorry Romans chapter 11 verse 13,
where he's enlisted this whole discussion to the place of Jews and Gentiles in God's plan,
he says, now I am speaking to you Gentiles. So he clearly is talking to a group of Christ
followers and seeing that they are still Gentiles. And also in Romans chapter 16 verse 4,
talks about Pristica and Aquila who risked their lives next from my life to not only I give thanks,
but also all the churches of the Gentiles or churches of the nations. So I think Paul wants
to use this term in a very complex and nuanced way where you have to allow the context to define or
to help you understand. And the same thing, by the way, when we come to Ephesians in a minute,
both of those usages also appear in Ephesians. So we just need to be careful about trying to
shoehorn Paul into always using this term in a particular way. So I think that we, I think he
is saying from a standpoint of his making sense of God's plan of salvation, these people were once
Gentiles and implicit in that is Gentile sinners, as he says over in Galatians chapter 2. And in
that sense, even though they in one sense remain Gentiles in the sense for the Jews, they are the
nations. On another sense, they're no longer Gentiles in the sense that they no longer behave
like Gentiles. Their behavior back to this issue about how you behave in your practice
shows what people were part of their behavior. If in fact they're living as Christ followers
is no longer the behavior of the nations. And so they're exhibiting a behavior that
I want to be careful about this. But he seems to, even though he doesn't use the term, it's
three or four centuries before people talk about Christians as a new race, a new people in the
sense of over against Jews and whatever. But he seems to in clink of the church of God,
you seem to have got in quasi ethnic terms. And this is something that now is a new group you're
coming into with a new ancestor, not only Abraham, but also ultimately Christ, as he says in Galatians
chapter 3. So in a sense, you're going from being the people of Greece, or the people of Egypt,
or the people of Syria, to now being the people, or even the people of Abraham, to the people of
Christ. In a kind of a quasi ethnic way that you live out and show by your practice that you are no
longer Greeks, or Jews, or Gentiles. Yeah, I now will clarify the, in case anybody wants to fact
check me on this. So the first Corinthians commentary in the Hermanaeus series is by Hans
Konselman, and James W. liked, or I don't know if I pronounced that right, liked. Konselman can be
Konselman can be Quirk. It's an older commentary, one of the first ones in the Hermanaeus series,
and he can be quirky at times. Well, and he presents the different arguments. But in terms
of translations, like if you look in the NRSV, or the like the New English translation, or ESV,
NIV, they all have pagans here. Everybody loves to translate it, pagans here, or probably if you
go back to Tyndale, and you know, it's probably heathens. But they're doing that because they
think that there's been this transition. And so all of a sudden, they think, well, this can't be an
ethnic sense, because people don't change their ethnicity. That's what's motivating the translation
of pagan. And if I recall Konselman's argument here, or maybe it's liked, or they've agreed to this,
is that, you know, they present the different options, they say, this is the challenge, and
there's a textual variant here. And the problem is, if the textual variant is original, if it
originally says Ote, that means when. So it's when you were Gentiles, or when you were, you know,
pagans, when you used to worship idols. Whereas if it's not there, then what he's saying is, basically,
you were led as opposed to, hey, you were Gentiles, and you were led. It's the...
I'm not... I'm not... I'm not...
The Greek is ambiguous, according to that commentary.
Yeah. I don't think it's technical, but I don't think the Hate really matters that much in that sense,
because it could be just equal without it. You know that you were Gentiles. You were led astray,
etc., to idols, etc. So I don't know that that is really... the textual variant really is determinative.
Well, let's move on. This is getting too much into the week, probably.
Okay, so I'll read. It's a few... We skipped over a few verses in 1 Corinthians 12, 12, 13.
I'm hoping we'll just say what we did skip over. When we skipped over is a section where Paul,
most Christians would know, where Paul is saying, the Spirit has given gifts of various types within
the community as the Spirit wills. And I want to underline that, because as the Spirit wills means
it's not based on any criteria that the rest of society values. God's not... The Spirit is not
saying, okay, Jews, you're better, and so you get more, or Greeks, you're better, and you get more,
or whatever. This repeated all, both in the verses before this and in the passage we're about to say
here, is implicitly putting all these social, ethnic, class, political, every kind of social
distinction and category that people would assert themselves as being above others. Again, he says
none of that should have anything to do with the way things are done in the community of
Christ followers. And look, here's proof, the Spirit doesn't give one who about any of that stuff
in distributing these gifts. And so then he leads into this nexus kind of wrapping it up statement
of all that in 1 Corinthians 12, verses 12 to 13, before he kind of develops it further. So go ahead.
Are you muted, Stephen?
For just as the body is one and has many members, and all the members of the body,
though many, are one body, so it is with Christ. For in the one Spirit, we were all baptized into
one body, Jews or Greeks, slaves or free, and we were all made to drink of one Spirit.
Okay, and anybody who knows Paul would hear when he says baptized into one body, Jews or Greeks,
slaves or free, you hear Galatians 328, which we're going to come to in a minute,
in the background. Depending on how you date things, I think probably Galatians was written
for Corinthians and Paul has, but either way, he's got this idea in his mind that baptism is
the way by which the visual representation is made whereby all those social barriers and
prior statuses are washed away and all are now placed on the Galatia. You're now, it's the
liminal stage that you, the transition in that liminal phase of the water where you go from being
one identity to another identity. Ethnic, these higher prior ethnic hostilities are laid aside,
so are the power issues of slave and free, and many others he says male and female and also
in Galatians. So I think that he could have said probably Jews and Gentiles here equally well,
but I think again, he's got in the background of his mind, this whole issue of in the real world,
you know, people are getting baptized, not just in some vacuum, they're getting baptized in this
little Christian community in Corinth or Rome or wherever, and they're physically with their bodies
going into the water and they're physically with their bodies living out social relationships
with these other Christ followers in the physical space of someone's home and also the physical,
you know, reality of a first century city. And so the groups that are now the most problem with
that are those, once again, that identifies Jews and Greeks. And so I think he just is kind of
constantly harping on that in the background of his mind and sometimes it comes out in the
format. Yeah, and I'll add that it does sound a little weird in English to say the body has many
members and members of the body, the word members is a little odd, it just means part, it's body
part, you know, it's just mellos is a part of the body. Okay, good. So we can go on to Galatians,
but do y'all want to talk any further about any of the things you touched on and of course
Corinthians, maybe tying them together at all or anything? I'm good with Corinthians,
you ready to move on to Galatians? You ready, Derek? All right, this is a bigger chunk,
you want to read it? Actually, I don't want to take the time to read this whole passage,
you want to make a couple of comments. Paul in Galatians is dealing with a situation where
there are some outsiders in his church who have come in, who are commonly associated with as being
Jewish Christians who are telling these Gentiles that they've not gotten the real truth from Paul.
Some people have argued, and I think there's a lot to be said for it that it's not necessarily
Gentiles, Jews doing this, it could just as well be Gentiles who have this same understanding of
the Jewish scriptures. But either way, the fundamental idea is that Paul has come to these
churches in Galatia and Central or Southern Turkey and preached them a message that says,
faith is the way you are made right with God, accepting what God has done for you in the
death and resurrection of Jesus and leaving behind your worship of the other gods, etc, etc.
And now somebody has come in after he's left this place and has told them, no, no, no, Paul didn't
tell you the whole thing. In order to be part of the people of the God of Israel, because you're
deciding that you're going to leave these other gods and affiliate with the God of Israel, look,
he says here in the scriptures, and this is in the background of Paul's conversation. He never
comes out explicitly. Look back here in Genesis, and it says that you've got to be circumcised in
order to be somebody that's part of the community of Abraham's followers and the people of God.
And look, when God gave these laws, it's when people are going to join the community of God,
they need to observe those laws. And so Paul hears about this, and he pulls his hair out and says,
no, no, no, no. Because if there's one thing Paul is sure of, as I said last time, it's the death
and resurrection of Jesus. It's the fulcrum of history. It's the transition point. It's the thing
you have to pass through in order to enter into this new era where the Spirit is at work, transforming
lives and God is offering forgiveness and salvation, and ultimately comes to fruition in this soon
coming end in a new heaven and new earth and all the wonderful things that God has promised there
and resurrected body, etc. And so Paul has to come back and deal in Galatians more explicitly with
the biblical arguments that have been used on the other side. Before we can get to that, however,
we'll see in a minute where he does get to it beginning in chapter three. He has a prior problem
because in essence, these people who were saying Paul did not tell him the truth are undermining
his integrity. They're basically saying Paul was a liar, that Paul has come to you and given you
his own watered-down version of the truth about Jesus and what he expects, and that you shouldn't
listen to this guy. So he spends the first two chapters essentially defending his own identity
and saying, look, I was a devout Jew more than anybody here. And then God came and changed my life
and I didn't learn anything from those people in Jerusalem. It was years later that I came in,
which begins now in this passage. It is 14 years after he's had this encounter with God
that he goes up to Jerusalem, he says in response to a revelation, and he tells them about the
message he's proclaiming to the Gentiles about that salvation is offered to them without them
having to be circumcised and obey the Jewish laws. And they said, hey, fine, Paul, no problem.
Well, there are some debates, a lot of debates and discussions about how this compares with a
similar story in the Book of Acts in chapter 15, where the issue is brought up and Paul tells
in that account about all the wonderful things God's done among the Gentiles with the power of
the Spirit, et cetera, and Paul, so the Gentiles, Jerusalem leaders say, well, okay, if God's doing
that that way, I guess it's okay. Now, is that the same conference? Is this something different?
A lot of debate doesn't really matter too much. The idea is the same. But interestingly, he does
say partway through, yet not even Titus, one of his coworkers who was with me, though he always
said Greek was compelled to be circumcised. And there's no question here that he's using Greek
in its very traditional ethnic sense. He's showing he does know what the term Greek means.
Now, what that means Titus is ancestors came from Greece, or Titus is someone who was nurtured
in a Greek environment. There's no way to say because as said earlier, Greek can take on and
discuss these fuzzy boundaries. So he could have originally been someone who was a glation
himself, and someone with Golic ancestry and not a native Jew, but has been so identified in his
family, the Greek culture, they can refer to him as a Greek. But he knows how to use the word Greek
in a way here. He knows Greeks don't get circumcised to obey the laws. And so that's really all I
want. I don't want to get into all the other details and ins and outs of this other than to say that
he says that when he this is a sign that the people in Jerusalem already agreed with him,
because if they really were teaching that you need to be circumcised and obey the Jewish laws in
order to be right with the God of Israel, they would have made Titus get circumcised. And so
not only he says that they verbally agree, but look, here's a concrete example in this one guy
here. Nobody said he had to be circumcised. And so he's essentially undermining in this story,
and in this way, these claims that gentile, this is an alternate interpretation of the place of
Jews in Gentiles and God's plan, that God's plan was not that a new path to be opened up for Gentiles
that doesn't involve obeying the laws and circumcision. No God's plan, yes, was to extend
the Gentiles, but it was so that they could be part of the people of God the same way Jews are by
being circumcised and obeying the laws. That's an alternate way of making sense of the Gentile
mission. And Paul says it's a wrong way. That's not what God is doing here. So it's one theology
of God's plan for Jews and Gentiles being pitted over against another theology of God's plan for
Jews and Gentiles. Both of them have radically different implications for the actual practical
practices of Christ's followers in those house churches. So let me stop there for a moment.
Either you want to comment at all on that before we continue the passage here.
Okay. The next two examples are back to back clunk, you know, chunks of verses from, you know,
later in chapter two, a few verses later, which we discussed this a little earlier. Is it worth
maybe just reading these back to back and seeing if it... Let me, yeah, let's do this. Let's read
just the one here that we have, Galatians 2, 11 to 14. I debated whether you should read it, but
sure, let's go ahead and read it and stop there and let me make a couple of comments and we'll
continue with the rest of the passage after you. But when Kaphos came to Antioch, I opposed him to
his face because he stood condemned. For before certain men came from James, he was eating with
the Gentiles. But when they came, he drew back and separated himself, fearing the circumcision party,
and the rest of the Jews acted hypocritically along with him, so that even Barnabas was led
astray by their hypocrisy. But when I saw that their conduct was not in step with the truth of
the gospel, I said to Kaphos before them all, if you, though being a Jew, live like a Gentile
and not like a Jew, how can you force the Gentiles to live like Jews? Okay, a couple of things worth
coming. There are a lot of debatable things in this passage I don't want to get into as far as
reconstructing the history of Paul's encounter with Cephas, Kaphos, who is probably Peter.
But I just want to make a couple of points out of it. This bit about men from James. James is the
leader of the church in Jerusalem, and therefore this is some kind of a party of Jewish Christians
coming into Galatia. For some reason that is not specified, is this meant to be the same people
who are causing the problem and telling people they've got to be circumcised and obey the Jewish
Torah? I would say probably not, because Peter, well, maybe, no, let me just refrain from that.
I'm sorry, are we asking, are they the same people that he's referring to here? Is that the
question? The traditional explanation is this party from James, this Jewish Christians in
Jerusalem, are in fact the ones who Paul is combating in this letter when he's saying,
no, you don't need to be circumcised and obey the Jewish laws. I don't think the evidence is as
strong for that as some people do, but it's neither here nor there for the argument here.
The point I wanted to make is, it's Jewish Christians who are essentially either telling
Peter, I'm going to say Peter rather than Cephas, either telling him that he should stop eating these
Gentiles or they are themselves separating. The issue here is that while there's nothing in the
Hebrew Bible that says Jews cannot eat with Gentiles, in some circles of Judaism, in Palestine,
Israel, many of the commands of the Hebrew Bible had been extended further than the text.
So for example, the idea in the Hebrew Bible, you're supposed to ritually wash if you're going
to go to the temple. Well, we know from just archaeological discoveries, a lot of people
were ritually washing all the time, even they weren't going to the temple. So also, the scriptures
don't say don't eat with Gentiles, but there are a lot of things about not associating with them and
their gods. And it's easy to see how the inference could have been drawn and was drawn by many Jews.
You shouldn't even eat with these Gentiles. Their food might be polluted, might be impure,
might not have been tied, etc. It wouldn't have been tied, etc. etc. So there's a whole issue here
in the background of a particular understanding of relation between Jews and non-Jews that is held
by these people in Jerusalem that Paul rejects. He obviously eats all the time with Gentiles.
He said in 1 Corinthians 9 that he behaves like them. He doesn't worry about whether foods are
ritually pure or not, which would be scandalous to a Jew. And so when Peter joins those others
and Barnabas, then he starts challenging them. Wait a minute, wait a minute. You live like a
Gentile, not like a Jew. He's acknowledging that Peter adopts the strange strategy he does, which
is interesting. When Paul is with Gentiles, he acts like a Gentile. I'm sorry, when Peter is with
the Gentile, he acts like a Gentile. And when he's with Jews, now he wants to start acting like Jews
around them. Paul says, no, no, no, that's, you can't do it that way. And so Paul has a different
understanding that is shared actually by Peter and Barnabas. But Peter and Barnabas get more
influenced by the group in Jerusalem. They say, okay, maybe we need to keep away from eating with
the Gentiles, even if we're going to accept them as brothers in the faith. And Paul says,
no, no, no, you got to go whole hog. It's all or nothing. None of these ritual barriers that we
find in Judaism are relevant anymore in this new thing that God is doing. And it goes on in the
next passage to unpack that further. But do y'all want to comment or question anything on that before
we get involved? I would just cite Acts chapter 10, verse 28 in particular, is another spot where
it specifically says that it's unacceptable for the Jews to eat with Gentiles. It says,
sometimes translated as unlawful, but even though it's not technically what it means.
But that's where they're bringing in, where it's specifically said other than here,
that, you know, which is I'm blanking on the circumstances there.
The vision that Peter has from God. It's Cornelius. It's Cornelius' introduction.
And he sees these visions of unclean foods and says, I don't eat these. And then he goes to
preach to Cornelius. The Spirit comes upon them. He says, whoa, who'd have thought that God was
going to accept Gentiles? And so again, it's a similar idea that he's being told, you know,
the ritual purity standards that we find in the Jewish scriptures don't apply in this new era.
And one could at least make a possible connection between that and him saying here that Peter doesn't
live like a Gentile because of that vision. Now, it depends on what you think about the
historicity of acts and other things like that. But it's an interesting correlation.
So go ahead and read the next few verses. Yeah, we're just going through about
halfway down. Stop before you get to the butt because we really need that part.
We are Jews by nature and not sinners from the Gentiles, yet knowing that a person is not justified
by works of the law, but by, but through faith in Jesus Christ. So we also have believed in Jesus
Christ in order to be justified by faith in Christ and not by works of the law because
by works of the law, no flesh can be justified. Okay. So here we see, again, this short distinction
on the one hand between people like Paul and Peter, who are when he says Jews by nature,
the Greek word used here has to do with kind of the essential being of someone. We are people who
are, you know, ancestry in the Jewish community. We are people who have practiced this way.
We're not just some proselytes or something like that. And we're not sinners from among the nations
or the Gentiles. You know, we saw last time that Paul in first in Philippians three actually says,
we guard the law. He was blameless. And so this is the Gentiles are obviously people who don't
live by anything in the laws of Torah. And that defines them by nation, by nature as sinners.
And yet, while all Jews would acknowledge that those Gentiles, yep, they're in the dark, they are
broken away. They're far away from the God of Israel, the one true God. Paul says,
but you know what, they're no further away than you are than we are. And he talked in Romans later
in a later letter in Romans, he says, you know, Jews and Gentiles, Jews and Greeks on the same
level playing field as sinners. But he wants to say we're not inherently like those Gentiles who
don't know the law and therefore sinful and ignorance. And yet even we know we've come to
believe now as Christ followers, that the only way a person is right with God is justified,
is put into a right relationship with God is through faith in Jesus Christ. So we also,
we Jews, me and you Peter have believed in or in the Greek had faith in Christ Jesus in order
to be justified by faith in Christ and not by works of law. We saw last time Paul in Romans
makes his audacious claims that the only reason God sent the laws, and we're going to see this
and also in this letter was to cause people to see what great sinners they were and therefore
to see that these laws are essentially a dead end as a path to attain righteousness to God.
Most Jews of the time would have said, Paul, we just miss reading this. That's not what we're
trying to do here. But Paul in essence says the law has one purpose. It's not one to make people
right with God. Jews are no better than non-Jews when it comes to their ultimate status as sinners
before God and therefore all are in need of the salvation that God offers, the righteousness
that God offers through faith in Jesus. So again, he's radically shooting down all these social
barriers. And particularly in this passage, targeting that pride of Jews that Jews would
have had over against all non-Jews doesn't feel any need to do with Gent Greeks specifically here
because it's a more generic question that he's got in mind here. So I'll stop with them.
Yeah, and this is if we get to Ephesians 2, this is an interesting contrast because they were by
nature sons of disobedience or sons of essentially they were sinners before they became
Christians by nature. But here they're by nature Jews. It's here it's in a positive light, there it's
in a negative light. I think after we're still in Galatians after this, but we're in chapter 3.
There's some interesting stuff here. I don't know if you think it's worth reading.
Yeah, one more word actually back on chapter 2. The part about what he's ultimately wanting these
Jews to do is to lay aside their own understanding of what God's will is. There are scruples
over food for the good of the community, which is very much like what he says in 1 Corinthians 8,
telling those who feel free to eat the meat, the sacrifice to pagan gods, which they are free to do,
to lay aside their freedom, to lay aside their rights in order to benefit others and to keep the
peace. Paul was constantly saying whatever, whether it's ethnic or any other kind of thing,
you should always be willing to lay aside your rights, your freedoms for the benefit of others,
so as not to cause harm to them. Romans 15, he gets into this a lot, which is of course,
such a radically un-American thing to do. We're so individualistic. It's all about me and my rights
and my respect. Paul says, no, it's not. It's about the other person. This is a theme that Paul uses.
I think implicitly, again, it's a way of overcoming a lot of those distinctions and divisions,
not only ethnic, but class and others within his community, because he's basically calling those
who hold power and honor or who have pride in there who they are outside of the community to lay
all that aside. They're the ones who are going to be challenged in that regard.
I will say a couple of words about what intervenes here. In chapter 3, Paul gets into the issue of
trying to counter the biblical argumentation of these people who are saying that Gentiles need to
be circumcised and obey the Jewish laws in order to be right with the God of Israel.
And he gets into an argument somewhat like when we talked about last time in Romans,
there are differences also. In essence, back in Genesis chapter 12, God said to Abraham,
you will be an ancestor of many nations. And what do you know? That word nations,
as we've been saying, ethnic, is also the word of Gentiles that just rendered Gentiles.
It's the same word. And so Paul implicitly is reading that as Abraham, you'll be the father of
many Gentiles. And then he says, well, how's that to be carried out? Well, he says, as we saw last
time in Romans 4, what God commends in Abraham was his faith. Again, he quotes that same passage
you looked at last time in Genesis chapter 15. Abraham believed or had faith in God. The word,
we have a problem in English. This one, he said, he believed in Paul's letters in the New Testament.
It's not something different than faith. It's just, we don't have a word to faith in something.
And it's not, it's not different from trust either. Faith, trust, belief.
And so I think that even trust is a better of one English word that we have that might
lump both of those two. Abraham trusted God, and it was countered in his righteousness.
You too should trust God. And so you have trust in God. That's the one word we have
that kind of can carry forward this similarity that we find in the Greek.
So he says to these Gentiles, Abraham had faith in God, and that's what made him right with God.
See, that's what God is doing. That's how Gentiles are made right with God.
They're on a different track alongside Israel, which is a little different than what he says
in Romans where he talks about, I mean, grafted into Israel. Paul uses different language,
different illustrations, and we can't shoehorn them all to make them agree with each other.
And so he's in essence says, and the way we know that is because God gave the Spirit.
Remember back in 1st Corinthians 12, the gifts of the Spirit.
Well, Paul, here in Galatians 3, really emphasizes, he says, how did you receive the Spirit?
Were you obeying the laws of the Torah at the time that God poured his Spirit out on you
in some kind of a visible, manifest way? We don't know exactly what he means there,
but there's something that's miraculous in some way.
Galatians 3, 25 through 29. But now that faith has come, we are no longer subject to a disciplinarian.
For in Christ Jesus, you are all sons of God through faith. As many of you as were baptized
into Christ have clothed yourselves with Christ, there is no longer Jew or Greek. There is no
longer slave or free. There is no longer male and female. For all of you are one in Christ Jesus.
And if you belong to Christ, then as a result, you are Abraham's offspring, heirs according to the promise.
Okay, so now that faith has come is Paul's shorthand way of saying, now that we're into this new
era through the death and resurrection of Jesus, where the centrality of faith as the way people
are made right with God is now evident and no longer are we in that old phase where God dealt
only with Jews and on the basis of circumcision in the law, then the disciplinarian here is a term
he used earlier to talk about the law. The law was a pedagogue, a disciplinarian to kind of keep us
in mind when we got out of the way, but he says, no, that's no longer relevant. You are all children
or actually in the Greek, he says, sons of God through faith. Yeah, I fixed that on the fly.
Huh? I fixed that on the fly. Yeah, it's the translations like to change sons to children
because it is exclusive, but it's technically literally sons. Yeah. And so you're all sons of
God through faith. Well, wait a minute, your sons, yeah, but so you're Abraham. Well, are we sons of
Abraham or we're just sons of God? He says the end of the passage. No, you're Abraham's offspring,
Abraham's seed. You are the ones who Abraham was promised to be his descendants, not only the
physical descendants, but also those who are not physically descended from him who have the same
kind of faith that Abraham did. And then we've got this famous passage. Again, we referred to it
earlier. Baptism is then the ritual that marks the transition from that former stage, whether you
were a Jew who wrongly trusted in the law of God in order to be right with him, or whether you were
a Gentile, a Greek who trusted in your wisdom and your authority and your power and all these other
things and all these negative attitudes you got. None of that matters anymore. There's no place for
that. So also, even slave and free, a slave, and we know this from even second century references,
a slave could be a bishop in the church once they begin to have bishops and deacons in a more
thorough way. So as a person who is a nobody, and even on the bottom in the outside world,
could actually be a leader in this community. We know from Paul and elsewhere women were leaders
in this community in a way that they never would have been in the in the world outside, or only
rare women would have had access to that. But doesn't just say all the hierarchies are gone,
he also says you are all one. This unity language, just like we saw in Galate 1 Corinthians 12 about,
you know, God has made you all one in Christ and given gifts to all of you. Paul is really
emphasizing over and over and over and over. You're one, you're not just these divided groups.
He's trying to get them to take on new identities to sublimate their identity as Greeks, Assyrians,
as Egyptians, as Udiyoy and whatever. That doesn't mean they totally leave those behind and no longer
those things at all. But those identities are relativized into insignificance when it comes
to the way they get along with others in this community. And so he roots them back all the way
in what God was doing in the Hebrew Bible with Abraham, but in a somewhat different way than
he does in Romans 4. But he gets to the same end in any way. Well, and I'll point something out that,
you know, Derek and I talk about this a lot because we argue with people about it a lot.
There's, there's some, the final sentence of, you know, verse 29 is very profound in that
the heirs according to the promise, right?
Who are those heirs? They are Abraham's seed, right? His offspring. In the Jewish concept,
if you were to ask a Jew, you know, who are the heirs according to the promise,
that's who they are. That's Abraham's offspring because the promise was made to Abraham and his
offspring. But Paul prefaces this with a condition saying, if you are Christ's, you know, Christ's
with like apostrophe S, it's the, it's the genitive case, either you miss Christu,
ara, then as a result of belonging to Christ, right? That one word encapsulates why I have
the parentheses there. Then as a result, you are Abraham's offspring. So he is literally describing
the mechanism by which these Gentiles or the Greeks that he's addressing become through faith,
Abraham's offspring. It's very clear in the Greek exactly how that happens with the, it's,
it's called conditional syntax, if then it's an if and then clause. And it's, it's not that clear
in the English. I tried to bring it out a little bit more, but I just want to, I just have to point
out for the record that this is, this is a very concrete statement at the end of this, this,
this collection of verses that really bears emphasis. I don't know if you have anything to
add. And one thing that he did language, he does not use explicitly in Galatians three. He does go
in Galatians four to use his language of adoption. He also uses that enrollments in chapter eight
in a similar kind of context. And the reason this is important is that
for us, when we think of adoption, when he talks about Christians being adopted into the family of
God, our concept of adoption is that a person who is adopted, while they can, will be treated just
like a son or a daughter, we always know there's this biological father or mother out there.
And genetically, they come from that lineage. And so they are socially part of my family,
but they are not biologically, they have a different set of genes and a different whole
family history than I do. That's not how adoption was understood in the Greek and Roman world.
Adoption was a means that it was very, it was not a matter of just rescuing some
foundling somewhere as a child. It was not uncommon in the Roman world for a wealthy person
who did not have sons to adopt someone else as his heir. And this person could be an adult,
could be somebody in theoretically to be a person as old as the person who's doing the adopting.
There is not an, it wasn't an age kind of thing, but it's a legal fiction whereby that person
is literally seen as becoming a member of the family lineage of the person who does the adopting.
Now we know today that's not true in any genetics, but lay aside what you know about genetics and
all that. From a standpoint of social recognition and legality, that person who is adopted is now
considered my son in every way that matters. And so when Paul talks about adoption, he literally,
he means that in the same way that you were adopted in the family of God, you are no different.
He also in Abraham's offspring, implicit in the background as there is, you're like the adopted
sons of Abraham that makes you just as much, you're not second rate, you're not second rate to the
natural descendants, the Jews. You are just as much a descendant and heir of Abraham as they would be.
So that's kind of in the background where the social distinct, social background here
is a little different than we would. Is it not fair Dr. Stanley to actually go a step further?
Because it sounds to me that if we were to couple this with Paul's Romans letter,
that he's going beyond the idea that, hey, you're no different than the Jews,
he's specifically saying you are an elect. It's like not all who are a descendant of Abraham are
really the chosen ones. And so he's going beyond just saying, oh, you think you're Abraham's children
because you were born or a descendant? Let me tell you a story about how that doesn't work for you,
buddy. And it seems like he's going beyond just saying, oh, well, you're on the same playing field
as Jews. No, you are adopted. You're one of God's children. You are one of those. Jacob,
I loved, is one of those situations rather than Esau, who is a descendant that he hated kind of
thing. Would you agree with that? Yeah, with a certain nuance that he's also implicit implying that
those people who are physically descended from Abraham, even again with his literal or fictional,
i.e. the Jews, if they do not go through the same path these Gentiles have to be going through,
they as individuals are no longer properly the sons of God themselves. So he is not only
including Gentiles, but he talks about, as you said, God in chapter in Romans 9 got elected
some out of the people of Israel, implying the others are no longer part of his people. And so
while Paul does not ever say God has given up on the Jews and they're no longer his people,
later Christians will do that. Paul does say, following the Old Testament lineage here,
God does give up on some Jews, and God brings his punishment, brings his wrath on Jews who
were not living according to the standards that he's laid out in his scriptures, in the laws,
etc. And so again, we saw last time the prophets will say, you know, God's going to obliterate all
these people using the Assyrians, the Babylonians or whoever, and there's no, you know, no problem
with that. They are people who have lineage or at least claim lineage from Abraham, but that
doesn't protect them from the judgment of God. And that's the mindset that Paul's working with
here as well, that those Jews of his own day who don't accept and embrace what he claims to be,
what God's new work is, are going to leave themselves under God's judgment. Of course,
they're going to laugh at that. You know, they're not going to accept this whole idea that through
the death of Jesus, God's done something new and God's moved on from Israel and, you know,
opened up a new one. This is all ridiculous, Paul. I mean, this is absolutely something
family. Right. So I have a question about that. So in regards to Romans nine, you know, three through
five, where Paul is sort of lamenting about his kinsmen, according to the flesh, his brothers,
kinsmen, according to the flesh, and he says, they are Israelites and to them belong the adoption,
the glory, the covenants, the giving of the law, the worship and the promises to them,
belong to the patriarchs, blah, blah, blah. When he says to them, belong the adoptions,
like the adoption, what would be the Jewish reaction to that? Because don't they kind of feel
like, did the Jews, the Jews didn't feel like they needed to be adopted, right? Like they were
already in this family, but Paul's raising the bar, right? Like he's saying that they need that
adoption to be sons of God. That's an interesting question. And I'll be honest, I've never really
thought about that. So I'll just, you know, look at the passage and give you a thought off the top
of my head. It can't be the same as the covenant because he also uses the word, the covenant,
the covenant's plural. So I might guess and you could look at the commentaries and see
that it could be a different use, it could be the adoption singular, might refer to God
choosing Abraham and making him his son. And then the covenants is the succession of covenants that
God enters into with Abraham and others giving the law, etc. Following that initial election of
Abraham. But that's just an off the top of my head. Yes. And if you want to look up and come up
with a better idea, you can come back and gift him. I don't think it would be fair to generalize
from that that Jews thought that they somehow had to be adopted by God in the same way that Paul is
saying here that in that sense, I think the word adoption here for Paul applies really to the Gentiles
because he would say the Jews are by nature, right? We just saw in relations chapter two,
they are by nature the people of God, whereas the Gentiles have to be adopted into God's family.
But once they are as weird as it sounds to us, I don't think Paul says this, but I think he might
say they too are now by nature people of God. Maybe he wouldn't go that far, but he does say
interestingly, I want to read Philippians chapter three, he goes even further than saying that
they are Abraham's offspring, their descendants. But in Philippians chapter three, verse three,
he says we it is we who are the circumcision. We are the ones that certainly sounds an awful lot
like displacing Jews as the true people of God. Again, Paul doesn't do that, but boy, he gets awfully
close there. We Christians, Christ's followers are the circumcision of God. So yeah, it's Paul,
he wants to do three things at once, you know, he's trying to hold on to the primacy of the Jews on
the one hand and affirm the equality of Gentiles on the other. And he hasn't worked out all the details
of them. And again, I repeat myself, you can't expect Paul to be totally coherent on all these
things that fit it together into some nice systematic package. Paul's got the parts out there,
but if you sat him down, he'd probably have to think about how he would answer some of these
questions we're asking. I know the Ishai Rosensi or the scholars that we read in the book, Goy,
they talk about Philo like this, he has a Jewish kind of supremacy, but really,
like, if you pinned him down, he'd be kind of a universalist in some senses, but then he'd be like,
but the Jews really, you know, and I wonder if Romans nine could be understood in that passage,
just that idea of adoption. When he says in verse four, they are Israelites, he's talking about the
Jews, and to them belong the adoption, the glory of the covenants. I wonder if what he's saying is
like, like, this should have been the case that they were the, the kid, they were the ones that
that's how I read it, but it's been, but it's been shifted. And like a lot of, yeah, I think most
people would say this is where he's essentially picking up and answering the question he asked
back in chapter three, verse one, then what advantage has the Jew? And he goes on to say,
hey, listen, here are the advantages they got. And yet he also, you know, prefaces this by saying,
I'm speaking the truth in Romans nine one, I'm speaking the truth in Christ, I'm not lying,
my conscience grieves, confirms it by the Holy Spirit. I have great sorrow and unceasing anguish
in my heart, for I could wish that I was accursed and cut off in Christ for the sake of my own people,
my kindred according to the flesh. And it goes on to say the same thing in chapter 10, verse one,
brothers, my heart's desire and prayer to God for them is that they be, that they be saved.
So yes, they had a head start in the race, and they had a lot more ability to recognize what
God had done in sending Jesus according to Paul as the Jewish Messiah. But having that,
they got to finish the race. And, you know, it's like they clipped the race halfway through.
And so they might have started out ahead. But if that's all they go, then all those advantages
are for nothing. Yeah, I always, I always saw it in the context of like a birthright, like Paul
believes that all of these things, the, you know, the adoption, the glory, the covenants giving a
lot of these, this is all of their birthright, like they should just get this as part of being
Jewish. And they're passing up on that opportunity. And it's being given to the adopted son,
it's being given to the adopted children. And that's why it's like such a paradox for him,
and it anguishes him that it's like they should be getting this, but they're not because they're
rejecting it. And that's what that's his Gentile problem right there in a nutshell. Yeah. And this,
you know, but I should note that this question about whether being descended from Abraham makes
you automatically right with God, no matter what you do, was one that was also debated by Jews.
And so particularly this passage in Mishnah Sanhedrin, where different rabbis are offering
different opinions about does simply birth from the lineages of Abraham make you okay in the age
to come. And some say yes, and some say no. And so this is not something that's just a Christian
name, because they got the biblical basis for seeing in the scriptures themselves. But even
though some people are defined from the lineage of Abraham, and that's what Paul gets out of Romans
nine, they aren't necessarily going to be accepted by God when the judgment comes. And so this is
something that's a debated issue all the way down through from the Hebrew prophets all the way down
to the Mishnah and the Talmud, you know, two to six centuries after Jesus. Paul is simply
deviating from that by having said that the basis of determining who is going to be in or not
is faith in Jesus, acknowledging him if you're a Jew, as the Messiah foretold in the scriptures.
And as we know, the vast majority of Jews who told who heard Paul say that said, Paul, you know,
what are you been smoking? This is this is just ludicrous. And so this is why so few Jews
recognized and followed this message, because the whole idea, you know, the whole concept of what
they were claiming about this Jewish crucified Jewish carpenter just seems so absolutely ridiculous
to them. So we're at the end of all of our undisputed Pauline passages. Do we feel like we
can get into Colossians? We want to briefly go through Colossians and Ephesians here. For those
readers who don't know, I in scholarly circles, there's a lot of disagreement about whether Paul
wrote or had any involvement with these two letters, Colossians and Ephesians,
based on a variety of things, the language in these two letters that Rick's style is quite
different than what we find in the letters that we know Paul wrote. Some of the concepts and use
of language are are different, at least arguably different. Certain references in these texts,
many people believe refer to a kind of a further development of the Christian church beyond what
it was in the time of Paul. There is a mediating position that would say Colossians is more like
Paul. And therefore, maybe Paul didn't write Colossians and maybe somebody else later wrote
Ephesians because there's a lot of verbal overlap and idea overlap between Colossians and Ephesians.
And so many people would say, well, maybe Colossians was by Paul, but Ephesians became
was kind of a literary model for writing, Colossians a literary model for writing Ephesians.
There is yet another possibility that's important to keep in mind, and that is it's clear that Paul
did not literally write any of his letters. Paul dictated them to scribes and the composition
of literature in the ancient world was not something where you have an author who sits
down and writes or dictates word by word only. But the people who wrote these texts could also
be partners in the crafting of them. And so Paul in several of his letters identifies co-authors,
you know, Paul and Sassanese, Paul and so and so and so in the first verses of the letters.
And we don't know what he means by that. But it's possible that he's talking about basically,
this is something that's kind of, we all put our ideas together, it may be he's giving credit to
someone who was a scribe who, you know, helped in the writing. So one possibility is that Paul
simply gave more freedom to a scriber secretary in the composition of Colossians and Ephesians,
such that the basic ideas here are things that he would have, but would not be something that he
actually had as much direct dictation role in, to be more approved something that was written by
others. Interesting, yeah, your conference, British New Testament conference on Pauline authorship
of the different letters. So you see Colossians, according to this, you got 56% would say Paul
did write it, 36% uncertain and only 17% no. I would, I'm surprised that it's the British,
the British scholars are skewed a little more towards Colossians and Ephesians.
Yeah, exactly. Whereas Ephesians, you got 39% saying yes, and 28% maybe 42% saying no.
So interesting just to see some numbers there, and whether that really carries any value in
terms of generalizing more broadly to non-British scholars and others around the world, it's hard
to say. And it's a decade old, so who knows what shifted in a decade, but yeah. So anyway,
all that is to say that in the background of our quick review of these passages,
is going to be this question, well, does this sound like Paul? Does it fit with what we know of Paul
or not? Or is it kind of like Paul and not like Paul? And so a little bit of the evidence for
whether these letters might or might not be composed by Paul is something that's in the
background of our looking at these. So I don't want to read this whole passage, have Stephen read
the whole one, we begin with Colossians 3, 5 to 11, which is part of a long passage where Paul
is laying, or I'm going to say Paul, I guess you should just say the author. Let's leave that
ambiguous. Where the author is saying that to be a Christ follower means that you've now become a
different kind of person that's got to be manifested in your behavior. And it involves here this
language about putting to death what is earthly and getting rid of all these sinful behaviors,
and he has long lists of them, and then putting on a new self, a different kind of language we
don't find anywhere in Paul's letters about putting off an old self and putting on a new one, though
it's somewhat like we find in Romans 6 where he talks about being dying with Christ and rising
with Christ. He doesn't draw it out quite this way. And he talks about you've clothed yourself
with the new self, the new human, which is being renewed in knowledge according to the image of
its creator. And then at the very end of this, in verse 11, he says, in that renewal, in this new
work God is doing of transforming individuals here from state of sinfulness into a state of
godly behavior. In this, there's no longer Greek and Jew circumcised and uncircumcised,
barbarian, Scythian, slave and free, but Christ is all and in all. Got a lot of parts there that
sound like Paul. No longer Greek and Jew, no slave or free. There is no gender reference here. This
passage compared to Galatians 3 does not say no male or female. It does bring in circumcised and
uncircumcised, which is another way of saying Jew and Gentile, where he's also said Jew and Greek.
Then he throws in barbarian and Scythian. It's not like Paul. You know, Paul uses barbarian a
couple of times, but he never uses it in this kind of context. Scythian is kind of out of left field
debates about why he brings in the Scythians who were some semi-barbarian people off on the edge
of the empire. And he says Christ is all and in all. Well, again, sounds like similar ideas to Paul,
but he doesn't put it that way. You know, he talks in 1 Corinthians 15, we've all been baptized into
one body, the body of Christ, which is kind of like Christ in all. Then Galatians 3, he talks
about is through baptism, we become offspring of Abraham if you belong to Christ, if you are
of Christ. The ideas are similar, but the language is different. And so, you know, are the differences
here? Basically, there's not a whole lot to be said further. It's similar ideas to everything
we've been talking about, that all these social distinctions, particularly he double emphasizes
the ethnic one by saying both Greek and Jew circumcised and uncircumcised. None of these
matter in this Christian community. But now it's not talking about in relation to observing the laws
of Torah as it was in Galatians chapter 3, but rather it's about personal behavior, personal
morality. Well, that is about behavior, but the behaviors he's talking about here in Colossians
are not explicitly obedience to Torah or not. So, we see a lot of elements here that are similar to
very quite like, they're not inconsistent with Paul, but they're different enough to raise questions
about whether this is somebody else saying, taking the same kind of themes and ideas and concepts
of Paul and putting them into language and applications that Paul himself never made.
So, that's all I'll say there. One of you want to comment on that?
Yeah, I mean, I will point out that, you know,
Ukenia linke iudeios, like they're no longer Greek nor Jew. It's actually exactly what Paul
said in Galatians 3, those few words, just in the opposite order, he said no longer
Jew nor Greek, but you can tell that there seems to be an imitation. I mean, if it's not Paul,
that it's trying to sort of sound like him, but it's also really different in a lot of crazy.
And that's one of the things that makes Colossians difficult because there are a lot more verbal
echoes of Paul's other letters in Colossians, whereas Ephesians is much further stylistically
from what we find in Paul's other letters. I mean, for example, we have been going to Ephesians,
like the whole first chapter of Ephesians is like two sentences in Greek, maybe three sentences,
and Paul just doesn't do that. I mean, Paul can write some convoluted sentences,
but they might run for, you know, two or three verses, not for 20 verses. So, the linguistic
style, the use of language in Ephesians is quite different than the rest of Paul's letters. And so,
really, the only way to salvage Pauline's role in this is to say that he was, gave a lot more
freedom to a secretary to ascribe, to write the letter, that it says much or more the other
person's composition he might have given the general ideas. By the way, one other explanation
here that's worth noting that most Christians in church people probably don't know is that,
well, in our English Bibles, it says, this is the letter to the Ephesians. He says that
first chapter one, verse one, Paul and Apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God to the saints.
Well, we've not talked about that word saints. This is one of Paul's favorite terms for Christ
followers. It's not saints in the Catholic sense, but it means those who are set apart for a sacred
purpose. And literally those who are holy, right? Yeah. And the word holy, yeah. And but I want to
use the word set apart because the word holy is not in the Hebrew Bible about, I'm a holier than
now, I behave better than you. The fundamental notion is set apart. And it really comes back
implicitly again to this Ju Gentile thing, because the Christ followers are those who have been,
if you're a Jew, you've been set apart from other Jews to be part of this new community.
If you are a Gentile or a Greek, you've been set apart from the other people in your group.
And whatever your ethnic identities are, you are now set apart, separated from those prior
identities to be included in this new community. And his term then is most common term for those
who in the community is brothers. You know, sorry, Paul is not gender, not gender equating here.
You're used male language. But the set up once you've been set apart from being a Gentile or a
Jew or an Egyptian or a Syrian in this new community, you are now brothers, which again is
familial language. You are all one, your family, you have a common ancestor and implicit in all
this brother language is all this ancestral talk we've been talking about about being descended
from Abraham, descending from God, being descended from Christ, etc. etc. So he's trying to create
again, something like a quasi ethnicity in this group, you're all related to one another, you are
all brothers, a kind of a relationship that supersedes all these prior social and ethnic
identities and relations that you have. So it's worth highlighting that word saints and brothers.
Anyway, he gets Paul and Apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, the saints who are in Ephesus
and are faithful to Christ in Christ Jesus. The words in Ephesus here do not appear in a lot of
the early manuscripts of the book of Ephesians. And so it's been suggested, I think, with a lot
of plausibility. This letter has very, this is a letter that Paul wrote from multiple congregations
to be circulated or that somebody wrote for multiple congregations. And so this could help
explain why the language in this letter is much more general, not a lot of personal references
like there are in Paul's letters, because it was intended to be circulated. Some people even think
this might be the lost letter to the Laodiceans, as mentioned at the end of Colossians, where he
tells the Colossians, the author tells the Colossians, give this letter to them and have you read the
one I wrote to the Laodiceans, you know, who knows. But I mentioned that all just to say that you can,
if this is something that Paul intended as a circular letter and he gave more freedom to
someone else, you could understand it as originally kind of generated by Paul and allow for other
linguistic and ideological variations. Most academic scholars say that's a bridge too far,
don't think they want to go there. There's just too much evidence on the other side.
But I'm kind of agnostic on both of these books in regard to these. I can really hear
both sides. I mean, the thing that like I'm looking at here, it's like, you know, and we were by nature
children of wrath. And obviously the authors addressing an audience like, you know, as a
Christian to other Christians saying, when we were, you know, when we once lived in the passions of
our flesh, we were by nature children of wrath. Well, when Paul talks about nature, he's usually
talking about it in the sense of like by nature, being a Jew or being grafted in contra nature.
This seems odd if you're thinking of this as Pauline. Yeah. Well, you didn't read the passage.
I was actually going to have to do that. Okay. We're jumping ahead. I'll read Ephesians two,
one through seven. Yeah, read Ephesians chapter two, verses one to seven. And you were dead in
the trespasses and sins in which you once walked following the course of this world,
following the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that is now at work in the sons of
disobedience, among whom we all once lived in the passions of our flesh, carrying out the
desires of the body and the mind. And we were by nature children of wrath, like the rest of mankind.
Let's pause there for just a moment. Let me interesting things going on with the pronouns
here, isn't there? Yes. Yeah, very, very hard to pin it down. Yeah, you were dead in trespasses
and sins in which you once walked. This is just like language Paul uses elsewhere for Gentiles,
right? And it sounds like he's writing to a group of Gentiles here who are, you know, serving,
he never says elsewhere Gentiles are serving essentially the devil here. So that's something
the distinction of the serving the passions of flesh. But I mean, who are the sons of disobedience,
right? Are they Gentiles or? Yeah, the language is language that he would use of Gentiles. But
then he shifts, yeah, in that we among whom we all once lived in the passions of our flesh.
But wait a minute. Okay, who's the we here? Is it the author letting slip the fact that he's actually
a Gentile? And he was saying you and now he's identifying with them. And is that a clue that
this is not Paul? Or is it Paul, we Jews lived among Gentiles, referring to Jews in the diaspora.
We lived among all you sinful jerks and influence us so that we gave in to the passions of our flesh
also. But then he goes on, as you started to say, we were by nature, children of wrath. That doesn't
sound like something he'd say of Jews. But then he says, like the rest as if he is, we don't go
ahead, like he is still talking about Jews, someone who is not part of the rest of humanity.
So it seems, I think, in a very non Pauline way. The author here is saying, Jews were not just
unable to obey the law, which by the way, appears his almost no role in Ephesians, the law, the Torah.
But rather that Jews weren't just unable to obey the laws, they were just as caught up in their
passions and sins and worthy of God's judgment as Gentiles were. Paul does charge that they failed,
but to say we were by nature children of wrath in the path carrying out the passions of our flesh,
carrying out the desires of our body and mind, that's further than Paul ever goes in talking about
the state of Jews before Christ.
So it's hard to know what to do with it. Is he talking? Is the author identifying as a Jew
and saying we Jews were just as bad as everybody else? Or is the author identifying as a Gentile
and letting it slip? That last part about we were like the rest seems to imply a distinction.
So I think implicitly we're talking here about an author who's identifying or presenting as a Jew,
but seeing some really non Pauline things about how bad Jews were before Christ.
I would point out that, because I have gone through this and I've highlighted all of the
pronouns and it's not displayed here, but when he says among whom we all once lived,
if you glance over it, for if anybody is capable of glancing over the Greek and looking at what
that says, it says, and we also, like also us, it sounds to me like that particular reference
is saying we Jews also once lived. If you're going to take the position that this is Paul
and he's contrasting himself with his audience, I think there he's actually not
saying we all once lived as in, we as in I and you, the audience, he's saying we Jews once lived.
I think that's how I would read that because there's this word K and that's right before we,
that makes it seem more inclusive of like in the background.
I hadn't noticed that that is missing in the English translation there, isn't it?
Yeah.
Yes, that's great to bring that up.
So we don't need to read the rest of it. We'll go back to that one, just the end of it there.
He does use inclusive language. God being rich in mercy because he did love made us alive together
with Christ and it's all in the same way. God's treated all of us the same. Jews and Gentiles
see this all equally with him and the heavenly places in Christ. Jesus is not going to try to
get into what that means and the ages to come. We're all going to be treated equally as recipients
of his grace. So the plan that God had, what is to treat all Jews and Gentiles alike in the same
exact way, not only in the Christian community, but in terms of the mind of God and the future plan
that God has for humanity. So then we go on, we skip over a couple of verses where he just adds
a bit more of that by grace you've been saved, not by works you do, to make people do good works.
So go on to the next slide and we'll continue in Ephesians chapter 2.
11 through 16. So remember that at one time you Gentiles in the flesh called uncircumcision by
those called circumcision made in flesh by hands. Remember that you were at that time without Christ
alienated from the commonwealth of Israel and strangers to the covenants of promise,
having no hope and without God in the world, but now in Christ Jesus you who once were far
off have been brought near by the blood of Christ, for he is our peace and he has made both groups
into one and has broken down the dividing wall that is the hostility between us in his flesh,
having abolished the law with its commandments and ordinances that he might create in himself
one new humanity in place of the two, thus making peace and might reconcile both groups
to God in one body through the cross, thus putting to death that hostility through it.
Might as well go ahead and read the next slide because it's really developing the same ideas.
Jesus knew 17 through 22. So he came and proclaimed peace to you who were far off and peace to those
who were near, for through him both of us have access in one spirit to the Father. So then you
are no longer strangers and aliens, but you are fellow citizens with the saints and also
members of the household of God, built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets
with Christ Jesus himself as the cornerstone, in whom the whole structure is joined together
and grows into a holy temple in the Lord, in whom you also are built together into a dwelling place
for God in the spirit. Okay, let's go back to the previous slide and we can deal with this pretty
quickly, but it's worth knowing here's where that other reference we mentioned earlier where he says,
remember that at one time you and for the purpose of our comment, even though it's not there in
the Greek and just because you say you were Gentiles at one time in the flesh and you recall
uncircumcision, but now and you were as a result of being Gentiles, you, he's always talking to a
group, obviously he's identifying them other than himself as a Gentile audience, that they were without
Christ, they were outside of Israel without the confidence, no hope and without God in the world.
And here he doesn't say anything negative about Jews, he's kind of implied that earlier, but he's
really down on Gentiles here and in the flesh sounds an awful lot like that language earlier
about being by nature Jews, but Paul never actually uses that language Gentiles in the flesh himself
anywhere else, he certainly uses uncircumcision and circumcision, but again the same idea that
Gentiles are separate from Israel under God's judgment, but here it sounds almost like just by
very fact of being Gentiles, they are cut off where Paul offered at least the possibility that Gentiles
might obey, know the law of God written in their hearts and live by it, but he says, now God has
brought you who once were far off near and he's about you Gentiles are now brought in by the blood
of Christ again shorthand for faith of the death and resurrection of Jesus and all this now this
both in this unity language, he's made both groups into one and notice the two references to hostility
broken down the dividing wall, the hostility between us and then the last line on the slide
too, putting to debt that hostility through it, sometimes people read this as though it's talking
about hostility toward God, but that's not what he's saying here, this is that whole history of
hostility between Jews and non-Jews, reconciling them together creating a new whole new community,
so it's really the idea that God hasn't just brought people together to be right with God,
but he's also brought them together to be right with one another, reconciled together in one body,
which again sounds a lot like 1st Corinthians 12 language, all together unified in the body,
Paul does never never says quite God has abolished the law with its commandments and ordinances,
he does say in Romans 10 4, Christ is the end of the law, but most scholars think that means he's
the goal or the intent of the law, so Paul doesn't anywhere existently say the law is abolished,
which looks a little more non-Pauline, and let's go to the next slide just to finish my brief
comments, so again you who are far off and those who are near are all brought together,
and again he uses a spirit language again, and one spirit to the father, you no longer strangers
and aliens, your fellow citizens, Paul doesn't quite use that kind of ideology, but it's the same
idea, members of the household of God, Paul doesn't talk about the household of God anywhere,
that's Okioi, but he does talk about the family and the descendants, children and all that,
and all rooted ultimately in Jesus, and one dwelling place for the spirit again is a lot
like what Paul was saying earlier, so throughout this whole passage basically most of the nuts and
bolts are Paul, the ideas are Paul, there's some things that are not impaled linguistically, perhaps
some variations of where you might see this person goes further than Paul and talking about
by being by nature Gentiles, talk about Jews being caught up in their passions and centers etc,
some of the other language here, and so the question is you know the basic essence of what
he's saying, this is what Paul, it's an extension you know continuing the same ideas, but is it
enough to say you know evidence far or against Pauline authorship, again it has comes down to
what do you do about that question of the freedom that Paul might have given to a to a scribe in
composition, but I think ultimately just to summarize all these things, I think the purpose
in Ephesians and Colossians is the same essentially, that's what we find in Paul's status, to address
the theological question of where Jews and Gentiles fit together in God's plan, perhaps to address some
of this political insecurity that they are feeling as not Jews, but a little less much less so at that
in Colossians and Ephesians, but certainly the social side of overcoming prejudice and hostility
and not so much on the missional side that doesn't really come out here in the way
it's used of Paul's preaching to Gentiles versus Jews, so those elements, some elements of this
carry forward elements of Paul, others get a little less attention, because that explicable
simply by the virtue of the different audiences, the different times and circumstances, or is it
enough to say no it's just different enough, I think somebody's just taking Paul's ideas and
extending and applying them and writing in the name of Paul, which by the way people did do in
the ancient world, we've got a number of letters of Plato for example, that we know Plato didn't
write, but they are letters claiming to be by by Plato, we actually have a document from the
second or third century that's commonly called Third Corinthians, that is written exactly as
Paul writing it, and yet we know because of various references in it Paul did not write this,
so it would not be unusual for somebody to write in the name of another person like this,
the question is, is that in case, in fact the case, Colossians and Ephesians, so that's not
our issue, we're concerned about here, so we're not concerned about that. If we run with the
assumption that the author of Ephesians is not Paul, and we know that Paul never refers to anybody
as Taethni and Sarki, right, like the Gentiles in flesh, right, like so we don't, we could only
speculate on how Paul would have used that kind of a phrase, but this author, if he's not Paul,
what does he mean, what does this author mean by Gentiles in flesh, and how is he contrasting it
with circumcision in flesh made by flesh and hands, like what does it mean to be a Gentile,
does it mean you're uncircumcised, or does it mean something different, like this is cryptic to me?
Yeah it is, because Gentiles in the flesh could simply mean your flesh, i.e. your penis has not
been circumcised, and so when you go to the bath, I don't think that's what it means, but that's what
it's sort of like rings as, and I know a lot of people interpret it that way. When you go to the
bath in the afternoon, you can look around at people's genitals and see, okay, you were a Gentile in
the flesh, you were a Jew in the flesh, and so the, I wouldn't roll that out, because you know,
Paul uses this language a lot, circumcised and uncircumcised as shorthand for Jews and Gentiles,
and certain women, certain people have been writing on this, particularly some of our feminist
scholars, have said we should not downplay the physicality of that, and just kind of spiritualize
it away, okay, this is a shorthand term. There was, you know, people could see at the bath,
some people are Jews, and some people are Gentiles. Well, let me put it this way, if you take out
in flesh, it doesn't say in the flesh, in flesh, if you take in flesh out, it conveys something,
right? It says like, at one time, you Gentiles called it circumcision. What does the, what specificity
does the author add by inserting that, that prepositional phrase? Well, I would suggest two
things. One, notice he's also got in flesh with the circumcision, the Jews, who are, it's an in flesh
made by hands, that is a circumcision performed on people, as opposed to something that one, and
it's permanent. Whereas these Gentiles in the flesh, they could become, could remain part of
God's people without being circumcised, or they could be circumcised. So it's not a permanent
thing in their case. Another possibility is just that, as also we talked about, Paul talked about
the Jews in the flesh implying a, the idea of physical descent from Abraham. He could also
be implying here, you are physically descended from other people, not Abraham. And so Greeks,
for example, had their own myths of ancestry, going back to certain ancestors, and they were
Greeks in the flesh, even though the stories themselves are mythical. And so you could imagine
the possibility of somebody saying, you are Gentiles in the flesh, in the sense that you are
descended flesh, fleshfully from someone other than Abraham. Well, I've also highlighted the
dividing of the hostile, the breaking down of the hostility is in his flesh, right? It's in Jesus's
flesh, like he's harping on this. That's a good point. Yeah. Yeah. His flesh affects their fleshly
status as well. Yeah. I'd like to ask about the dividing wall for a second. I've been told around
this period, you know, the Jerusalem temple had a third outer court that had a dividing wall between
Jews and Gentiles. And if you've crossed that line, there were warnings in Latin and Greek and
different nations could understand it in their tongue like, Hey, buddy, you crossed this line,
you're dead. Okay, heads coming off like we're not playing with you. And it's a clear social. And,
if I will, let's use the term a social ethnic, meaning like you could join Jews,
but you got to go the full way. Like here is this enmity between us. Do you think the dividing
wall might be hinting at this notion of what not necessarily trying to say Ephesians was written
pre 70 or post 70, but maybe the author has in mind trying to write as if they are Paul,
they know about this wall. Yeah. And they're trying to say, Hey, that's down in Christ, no matter
what. That's a great point. Because it would imply also that the author is setting himself up as a
Jew who knows about that wall, i.e., who has been to Jerusalem or heard about it, which I wouldn't
necessarily assume is the case for all diaspora Jews. But it's interesting to note, too, that
according to Acts, what does Paul get arrested for that eventually leads to his imprisonment and death
being accused of taking the Gentile past that wall in a temple that he took a gempile beyond
the place where this supposed to be. And so, you know, okay, does, does it's, if that is the
illusion here, does that kind of sneak in the fact that this couldn't be Paul because it's written
after that before that actually happens? Or does this just mean is an illusion because he knows
that it's there, but he doesn't assume they know he explains what he means, hostility between us.
But if he's writing for Gentiles, clearly, they would not have understood that as referring to
that wall in Jerusalem would have just taken it as the same way we would. A figure, okay, you got a
wall between two people, like two neighbors, you know, or something like that. It divides them,
and now that's broken down. But I think it's quite possible that could be
in the mind of the author that wall beyond which Gentiles could not pass at the temple.
I'm wondering if God fears did know about this wall. I mean, if it's not meant for people who are
not, if there's non Jews who have to stay outside, but they want to participate, doesn't mean there's
a whole boatload of them, but enough to know about this. Hey, we can't go past that because
we're not going full fledged. That's okay. I'm going to Athena and Apollo later anyway,
but I just came to pay visits to Yahweh. Then the other thing I wanted to be sarcastic,
because this is the first time I've been sarcastic in this recording. I want to be super
sarcastic on this one here. And this is going to sound crazy, which is the point.
But I'd like to have your critical statement on this. Imagine someone interprets Ephesians
as two groups, meaning the northern kingdom of Israel and southern kingdom of Judah,
and that the northern kingdom, because they were scattered among the nations, as the prophets will
say, they've become kind of Gentiles in the flesh, let's say. Because they're uncircumcised.
They're uncircumcised. They have apostasized. They've done what Hosea says. They're not my
people anymore, but there's a promise he'll regather them. And sure enough, they were afar,
as Ephesians says. Do you think that I'm really pushing and going way beyond the boundaries
of Ephesians context? I'll add some specificity to what Derek said. The people that push this also
harp on the term alienated, because they think that alienated means, in the sense, there is
some attestation where you can say, in a divorce, a husband is alienated from his wife. So it doesn't
mean you've always been separate. It means you became separated in the same sense that God divorced
the northern kingdom. That's what they... But it's interesting you bring that up, because you and I
have had some conversations about this. And I wonder, I don't want us to get into it now, but notice
in Sephora, as you're talking about northern tribes, you're talking about the people who were
known as Israel in the Hebrew Bible, right? And yet this says alienated from the commonwealth of
Israel. How can you be Israel if you're alienated from Israel? Because you were given a way to
idolatry, and you were separate. Because basically, the standard interpretation would be that the
Gentiles are separate. They are alienated. They have not become members of the commonwealth of
Israel until they accept Christ. And that interpretation is saying that they were broken off,
that they were once part of it, and then they broke off from it.
Yeah. Can you go back to the previous slide for a moment?
This one, right? Versus 1 through 7? Yeah. Just going to take a quick glance through and see if I
see anything that would relate in any way. This is also fodder for that school of thought,
because they see this as clearly showing that this is fulfilled eschatology for certain people,
because they see that God has raised us up. You have been saved and raised up with him and
seated with him in the heavenly places. This is not anticipating something that's going to come.
You were dead, and now you are made alive. And this is the resurrection that was expected. It's
happening now. It's not some future bodily resurrection. It's spiritual.
If you go toI mean, the only things I would sayand we can wrap this upwhile there are
certainly always in the New Testament, as with any other document like the Constitution,
various ways you can read and understand a text, one of the tests of the adequacy of a reading
is does it do justice to everything or most everything in a text, or only to some things
in a text? And once you've got multiple things by the same author, then the question becomes,
does it do justice to only certain things in that author? That is, is it cherry-picking things that
go along with an interpretation that you already have and ignoring other things in that author's
writing? Or does it do justice to all or virtually all of the things that an author says? And so I
would suggest that if one reads certain passages, certain ways, you might be able to kind of find
things like that. But we already talked about so many other things in our last presentation,
but it's very clear that the ways in which language was used, the way these terms were used,
these ideas were used in Paul's day, has absolutely no evidence of that in any way being on Paul's
mind or anybody else's. And we come to this particular book, which we could say may or may
not be associated with Paul. I still would wonder, and I don't want you to answer this question,
but what you would do with in this slide, the one that says we were by nature children of
wrath. On the next slide, you were Gentiles in the flesh, and then you were alienated from the
commonwealth of Israel. I mean, any natural reading of these texts would suggest that we're talking
here about the same kind of people that Paul in his letters talks about, that is people who are
not Jews, who have not received the law of God in Romans two, and he talks about those Gentiles
about who do not have not had the law, but now have it written in their hearts, etc., etc.
If this is associated in any way with Paul, or insofar as it does carry forward Paulian ideas,
the very clear references, and one of the fundamental principles of biblical interpretation
or constitution or anything is that the unclear texts or those that are subject to multiple
interpretations should be interpreted in the light of those that are clear and those that have
a very, you know, undebated interpretation. And so I think at that point, allowing the clear texts
to interpret the ambiguous ones that could be read in different ways is the path that any reputable
scholar, and I would suggest anyone who's simply trying to be a good reader, should do. So let me
just close on that and let you wrap us up because I know we're out of time.
I guess for closing on that, I do want to say that was interesting. You brought up,
I agree with you on being sarcastic and just thinking about that passage in Ephesians.
There's one interesting point that you literally said there, if we pull that up for just one second,
it was the spot right here that says, by nature, children of wrath like the rest of mankind.
You know, this particular- It doesn't say mankind, it just says the rest. Mankind has been brackets,
but that's what it implies. Like everyone else, basically. Everyone else, right. And this is a
problem fundamentally in their interpretive model that they suggest that not all mankind
are actually sinners according to these authors. So technically, the only people who are real sinners
are the people who are given the law. The only people who are given the law were Israelites.
So how do you explain Gentiles and Romans sinning? Duh, they were once given the law and then broken
off. So they're guilty because their ancestry somehow connects to Moses, to Abraham, to the
covenant law. And that's all in Galatians chapter two says, we who are by nature Jews and not Gentile
sinners. Yep. Anyway, you need to wrap this up. Let's you go because then we've gone way too long
here. I think that's Jesus calling right now. Stephen, I think- I apologize to viewers for the
phone ringing occasion in the background. It's all right. We got through all the examples except
the last two, which I popped up on the screen so people can pause it and look at that stuff.
Oh, I forgot that we had not covered last actually just one Ephesians four,
whereas it's another one of those passages where he talks about no longer walking,
living as the Gentiles do. Gentiles are something you are not anymore and belongs to your former
manner of life. So Gentile food, if we will, is something that you used to exhibit by your behavior,
but now by being a member of this new group, you have a different mode of behavior that you exhibit
that shows you are, in essence, no longer Gentiles when one is judging by the way one practices and
behaves. So it's I think part and parcel. We find Ephesians an echo of Paul that in one sense you
once were Gentiles, you're not anymore. And yet other passages, it would suggest what you are.
And so it's, again, the last time, don't expect Paul to be consistent in use of terminology,
don't expect all the every aspect of his theology to cohere in a way that would be a nice, tight,
systematic theology the way we would like. He's a circumstantial theologian. He's a
missional theologian. He is addressing problems as they arise. And probably a lot of things he
hadn't really thought about until a problem arises. And he then takes his principles and his
understanding fundamentally rooted in the death and resurrection of Jesus says, yeah,
how does that apply in this case, without trying to work out, if as if we were writing a systematic
theology, how does that plot relate to something I said over here in relation to a different
circumstance? He's not someone who's trying to create and exhibit in his letters an entirely
coherent system of thought. Does that mean he didn't have a coherent system of thought?
I think it's hard to say that. I don't think I have a coherent system of thought. I'm not sure
any of us have a coherent system of thought where we've thought about all the implications
of all our different ideas of whether they are contradictory with one another or consistent with
one another. And I would suggest Paul's a human being like us. Thank you so much, Dr. Stanley.
Everybody go get his books on Amazon. The link is in the description. If you want to go to the
level three or four or five in heaven, because if not, you're gonna stay like they're gonna have
like the bums and ghettos and stuff like you're gonna be in that location. If you get the books,
you'll get some free passes into better places. We'll even break down the dividing wall between
some of those locations. If you will also a slave story.com, please check out his website,
stay up to date on what he's working on, always constantly chipping at the historical reality
of what's happening. And then of course, you know, if you really want to be saved, right,
like true salvation and whatnot, you can join the Patreon. I'm telling you, oh, who's this? Oh,
that's the previous interview. It's early access for everybody who supports myth vision. This will
find its way into the broad daylight. I won't keep it hidden under a lampstand. So help support us.
You can join as little as $3 a month, less than a Starbucks coffee for the whole month. And I work
very hard. You can private message me as well. Give me ideas of academics or topics or questions,
things like that. And I'll try to spend the time helping you out. So please help us out there.
If I can Stephen, would you like to close out with some statements about what you've learned
from this episode? And then I just want to say thanks to Dr. Stanley for sitting through it for
like five hours. And, you know, for being our sort of like on call private tutor professor for
like the last six months, I think he's bugging you over like just like just harassment borderline
harassment of Dr. Stanley asking him questions, like having him double check all of our work for
all these slides and stuff. I mean, it just he just went above and beyond. Thank you so much.
I've learned so much. It's nice to have people who are interested, you know,
we often don't get a chance to talk to each other as scholars, much less to interested
late people who care about these things as much as you do. And the emission that you have, Derek,
to kind of get these things out to other people, I think is just laudable, commendable. I'm happy
to be part of it. Thank you. Thank you so much, Stephen, for co-hosting with me again and surviving
the COVID attack. And Dr. Stanley, thank you for your time, energy, knowledge, wisdom, all of the
above. Never forget, ladies and gentlemen, we are MythVision. Join MythVision's Patreon today
to access hundreds of videos that I have worked hard in high quality content that are not in
public domain. They're only on the Patreon. You will also have direct access to me referring
academics, questions, ideas, or just want a private chat. You have that access with me.
Also, I'm trying to do more traveling to educate people from more academics and expand
what kind of material I do produce on MythVision. This is a full-time gig and you're helping the
community by joining. I'm trying to put together more to educate people who have harmful,
cultic practices or ways in which they're harming society. We are educating them from MythVision
on better understanding these ancient texts and mythologies and history in a way like not many
shows do. So please, I could use your help and you're going to get and benefit a lot by joining
as a member.
