Today
I want to raise a little doubt.
What kind of appearance Jesus had with the Apostle Paul?
And show you a little discontinuity in the New Testament.
Frankly, I'm well past the apologetics that I once held.
And Bart Ehrman has written books like How Jesus Became God, showing discontinuity on
the idea of Jesus' deification or being a God.
One he's pre-existent in John, but in the synoptics he's a demigod who becomes a divine
figure after his resurrection.
Or one might say he's the son of God at baptism or at birth, depending on what account you
go to.
This discontinuity is something I want to highlight when we look at the Apostle Paul in light of
Christian apologetics.
The Christian Apologist kind of gloss over Bart Ehrman's How Jesus Became God material
and don't really dwell on that and how significant it is.
They love running the 1 Corinthians 15 and then automatically connecting the dots for
you to later Gospels like Luke and John, where Jesus is eating a fish sandwich, being sarcastic,
eating fish and telling people to touch him, see him, feel him, his flesh and bones, which
is absolutely contradictory to what we find with Paul, that flesh and bones will not inherit
the kingdom of God.
See Paul lives within a Greco-Roman world, yet he's a Jew, and people love drawing a
fine line between being a Jew and living in the Greco-Roman world.
Many scholars in David Litwell and other academics he's written about who have made the argument
clearly.
Hellenism has seeped into every pore of the Jew, even the Essenes themselves and those
in the Qumran scrolls were deeply seated with Hellenism.
Could we find people who were not Hellenized?
Unlikely.
Looking at Paul's thought in his understanding of the resurrection in 1 Corinthians 15, I
would ask that you pay attention to people like Dr. James Tabor.
The dead are raised first, but they're raised incorruptible, as you're not looking for body
parts.
This is very important.
You're not looking for a cessitated corpse.
He says it's glory surpassing any glory on earth, and we get descriptions like in the
book of Revelation, there's one description of Jesus, says his face shines like the sun
in its full strength, so that would be like, you know, kind of an image.
So there's what kind of a body?
You can't read that question in Paul and then plug it back into the Gospels.
We can talk about the Gospels and what their accounts are, but again, if you take them
chronologically, you're going to see something you might not have realized before.
I know you've read my book and you've gone through that.
Or Steve Mason.
How is it some of you are saying there's no resurrection?
It's like the whole foundation of everything, but then he has to back away and say, well,
what I really mean is I'm talking about spiritual resurrection, you know, and Christ, to come
back to that question someone asked in the super chat, Christ became a life-giving spirit.
He was physical, but what is sown into the ground is not like what comes out.
Like you sow seeds into the ground, but look, you see this great wheat come out.
What you see come out of the ground is not like what goes into it.
And Christ was a physical being when he died, but he was raised.
He became a life-giving spirit.
And then he even goes on to say flesh and blood cannot go into heaven, right?
You can't do that if you're flesh and blood.
You have to become a spirit.
And that's why everybody's going to be transformed in the twinkling of an eye.
He says, the blink of an eye, we who are alive will all be transformed so we can go to heaven.
And this flesh, this mortal flesh has to be transformed to immortal spirit.
And other academics who point out the body is a spiritual body.
Now, that doesn't mean it doesn't exist in the mind of Paul and those arguing this.
It means it's made of completely different stuff, completely different, which means not flesh
and bone as you see Luke and John.
What Paul has in mind is an apotheosis.
Jesus becomes a deified figure at his resurrection, a son of God at the resurrection.
Romans chapter one, verse four, which means we can look at two figures like Romulus,
when Mars carries him off to heaven and he becomes one of the stars in heaven, a star.
Don't we see something like that at the birth of Jesus?
But let's pay attention a little closer because one might argue, yeah, yeah,
Mars carried him off and he became a God.
But in Jewish thought, they can't be gods.
There are academics who argue against that and say, sorry,
your hypermonotheism just doesn't work at this time.
It's anachronistic to think that way.
But let's grant what some scholars call angification, where a human, a mortal,
because they are so noble and righteous, ascend to heaven and become part of the divine,
if you will, it become an angel.
And we know that stars were considered angels in the Hebrew Bible.
Now, what other figures come to mind?
Elijah, Enoch and later traditions of Moses, Moses inside of Josephus antiquities.
He says also when they thought he died and his body was buried, no, he ascended to heaven.
And of course, becomes one of the angel figures, which is exactly what we see in the
transfiguration scene in Mark, which is highly influenced by Paul's theology.
In Mark, of course, at his baptism, he is a son of God.
He is this is my son quoting scripture, but he is a demigod.
Or at least he becomes that in Matthew and Luke by the birth.
I'm willing to grant that here in Mark, but nonetheless, when you get to the
transfiguration scene, you have Moses and Elijah and the bright, radiant light.
They're on top of a mountain.
Remember, the tops of mountains are where the gods live.
That's as closer to the heavens, closer to the skies and clouds.
Many temples in the ancient world were built upon mountains.
Many gods hung out on mountains.
Need I remind you Yahweh on Mount Horab or Sinai, depending on which source
material in the Hebrew Bible you're looking at.
So here's Jesus on top of a mountain and mimetically connecting to the Moses story.
Many parallels show that he is lifting this gospel author, Mark, whoever he really is,
is lifting literary borrowing, if you will, from the Hebrew Bible.
If you grant Q, then maybe Q's doing that and Mark is working off Q.
Either way, here's Jesus on the mountain.
His face transfigures just like Moses, but more happens.
They're terrified to look at Moses in the Hebrew Bible
because his face radiates the light of God.
Jesus' clothes also radiate.
And of course, this is a sign of what would be after his resurrection
and most likely ascension to heaven.
Isn't it funny in one of the Gospels?
He says, don't touch me.
I haven't yet been glorified.
I haven't yet gone up.
Hmm.
So here is a man who becomes deified, angel-fied.
He becomes an angel.
We see this in the book of Revelation as well, where Jesus is like an angel figure.
In Paul's thought, Jesus becomes an angel.
And I ask you to consider new ways of what Paul might have meant when Jesus appeared to them.
If we read Livy and other scholars and other historians about figures in the Greco-Roman world
who ascend and they have all these narratives about how that happened,
what they probably really assumed was an appearance of them,
would it possibly be a star, a bright light?
We can psychoanalyze Paul and consider maybe he suffers from mental health illnesses
and he's seeing things like bright lights and visuals.
And through the zeitgeist of his worldview, whether Greco-Roman and Jewish combined,
granting that the case, would he have assumed this something like Elijah?
When he says, I once knew a man who went to the third heaven talking about himself.
In that, I once knew a man and he went to the third heaven.
One can also speculate this may have been his conversion experience.
So if the man is experiencing a bright light words that are not,
he's not able to convey that he experienced.
Is he entering a trance and interpreting that experience through his worldview, his zeitgeist,
which is the Greco-Roman world and the Jewish Bible, the Septuagint?
Paul is probably doing what every religious experience does,
interprets whatever their experience is through the cultural and religious background they hold.
So in his view, he sees himself as a last day's prophet
and probably equates this experience of ascending to heaven with Enoch or Elijah.
Whether in the body or out, I don't know Paul says.
So what is it he saw when he says the Lord appeared?
Is he seeing a star in the heaven flowing, flying by?
Or is he seeing something in his mind?
Weird ideas pop up in Paul's letters when he says, Christ revealed himself in me.
So that I can go preach the gospel to the Gentiles.
Really strange wording that goes on in Paul's letters.
He sounds very like a mystic.
And a lot of the language in Paul's letters also sounds like the mystery cults
that are also around at this time.
I am very suspect of thinking when Paul says Christ appeared to him
that he thinks some flesh and bone, physical resurrection of Jesus
in the literal sense that Luke and John say it and the creeds of Christendom assume
that that's what Paul had in mind or experienced ever.
No, those narratives come later.
Paul's experience is probably a bright light,
something that could have been akin to the stars in heaven as would have been an apotheosis.
Or he himself is having visionary experiences.
I'm willing to grant if we're not granting he's blowing smoke.
I don't think he is.
I think that there's really something there.
Even the book of Acts, which contradicts Paul in many places, has his experience being
a bright light that blinds him.
Now we have some issues in Acts 22 and Acts 26.
When he retells the story, some of the pieces kind of don't line up or seem quite odd when
we try to compare it to Acts 9 at his initial conversion.
But either way, the initial conversion, nobody saw anything.
But Paul, is this something literal like Luke?
Feel my hands touch my side or are those later apologetics trying to physicalize, make Jesus
literal flesh and bone and not a ghost as it's hinted at in Luke?
Because later on there are dosetists, people who think Jesus didn't even have a body.
He wasn't a physical person.
He's so divine he did not even have flesh.
He did not have this icky stuff that we call flesh, matter, which was viewed in middle
Platonism as an evil thing.
So if this matter is an evil thing and you already have a Christology that has him divine,
you can't imagine him at one point having icky what we call flesh in the material world
that can't be.
So all of these Christologies develop out of this notion and they go back to Paul.
Why do you think many of the heretics, what we call heretics, is a derogatory term by
the heresiologist as M. David Little points out.
Why do you think they keep referencing Paul as their guy?
You know, it goes back to Paul.
Most of them at least.
I'm not going to say it's universal, but most of them keep going back to Paul.
Does Paul teach something different than what we find in the creeds?
I think so.
And if we grant exactly what Bart Ehrman's talking about with how Jesus became God and
that there is discontinuity in how his deification or where he's the Son of God and they're not
all speaking in one voice, why should we assume that they're all speaking in one voice when
it comes to this apotheosis of Paul and his deification concepts with the resurrection?
Why should we assume what Paul says in 1 Corinthians 15 means exactly what Luke and
John are telling you?
I think we should hold off and not be so dogmatic.
But no, this is what the creeds tell you.
And if you don't believe what they're telling you, good luck in the afterlife.
You're going to burn in this mythical place they call Hades or hell.
And this is where people in the afterlife would end up going and their smoke will go
up day and night forever and ever.
No, I'm not buying it.
And I would look to the ancient world around Paul, read a lot of the stories, read far
and wide and the frightening fear of hell will start to disappear.
That's sincerely my honest take.
It's been my experience.
And I only knew the little bubble I called Christianity with my apologetics.
The fear of hell had a lot of power over me.
But once you read about other gods who died and ascend into the heavens becoming gods,
you get less frightened.
Why?
Because are they also true?
Did they really become gods?
Oh, no, no, no, let's have a double standard.
Let's say all of those are bogus and BS, but this one's true.
Nah.
Listen, keep studying and keep looking closer because there is nothing to fear.
It's ancient literature.
Now some people say it's all a myth in all stories.
But even if you grant there is some kernel of historical reliance on these letters of
Paul and other aspects, maybe you still don't run into this problem that you must believe
this as if it's true.
Use a skeptical mind.
This is another minimal doubts argument I want to approach Paul with as I'm continuing
an article now.
So keep in mind the Greco-Roman world and the Jewish world marry in the mind of Paul.
But it wasn't just Paul, Philo and others as well, Josephus, you name it.
Keep going and never forget we are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
