What is the apostle Paul up to, especially when he's quoting the Hebrew Bible, or better yet,
the Septuagint? Is the apostle Paul actually using those quotations as they're understood,
or is he recontextualizing them to mean something totally radically different?
Dr. James D. Tabor joins me today while answering this question. He deals with six, five or six
pericopee dealing with this particular topic. Is Paul changing the meaning of these texts
to suit his own needs? Let us know what you think in the comment section.
Dr. James Tabor. Good to be with you again. I'm telling you. I like talking to you, Derek.
I love listening to you. I wish I was a student in college with you, but I'm a student now.
So, and so is everybody vicariously living through this while we listen to things you've
learned over the years, and you've learned a lot. So, Paul, you've written extensively. In fact,
I loved your book, Paul and Jesus. You know, I appreciate him. I've had Rabbi Tobi Singer,
for example, good friends of both of us. He loves to take a thorn and like jab at Paul.
And then I've had others who want to favor Paul completely. I sit in the middle. I see Paul as a
human. You'll see Paul and Jesus. We've done a bit on that. The conservatives love it,
and the more critical people love it. They really do. And the question is, did I get Paul right?
So, and if I got him right, somebody that believes Paul goes, Tabor got him right.
And somebody that doesn't believe it, he got Paul right. And boy, that's really crazy stuff
that Paul believes, you see. So, I tried my best to not take a side, so to speak. But,
you know, I've read those seven letters. I base it on his seven genuine letters.
And what we're going to talk about now with his scripture, they're from the seven genuine letters.
I'm not going to go into Timothy and Titus and Colossians and yeah.
So, this is a good question. And as we lead into you expounding on this, I want to just
paint a picture for our audience. Okay. You know, if Paul is using Hebrew Bible,
Hebrew scripture from probably the Septuagint, if he is using this, and he is, it's probably
people today like to call it misappropriating or recontextualizing is a probably more tech
better term. But they always want to have negative connotations. The good rabbi joining me on the
show, for example, has the negative side, whereas the others will say, no, different times, different
experiences. In fact, rabbis probably thought like this around this time. Absolutely. And that's
the thing. The rabbis do it all the time. In fact, if you read any tractata that Talmud,
it's all based on scripture because it's a commentary on the Mishnah, which is a commentary on
the Torah. So, they constantly quote things where there's one little alliteration and it really
doesn't have anything to do with the context. Right. So, that's not the fault of Paul. He's
doing his rabbi thing. Yeah. What we're going to see is he's building the blocks of a new Christian
faith. I think he's the creator of it really. It's not in the Gospels primarily. Mark a little bit,
maybe influenced by Paul. But so, it's not just that he's making some little illusion.
It would be like, as Rachel did this, so and so might do that, almost like an example.
He's actually taking some key verses I'm going to go over with you and making a whole new building
block of a new faith. So, he's actually trying to put something on it, not just give some like
allegory or example. And these happen to be the big ones. In some cases, we're going to mention four
or five. But one of them, for example, the first one I'm going to do, that's what stopped Luther in
his tracks. That's what made him leave eventually the Catholic Church and start the Protestant
Revolution because of an understanding of a single verse. And if Paul is reading that in a way that
doesn't seem to fit the context, then it's more serious, you see, because it's not just an example
or something. There's a rabbi, they make alliterations, they take words that are similar,
and they build these kind of, it's almost like a game. It's a fun hobby. Yeah, where is this
mentioned? Oh, there's six other times where this is mentioned and it has nothing to do with building
a foundational affirmation of a new faith. They're not establishing a new faith, they're just playing
with scriptures. And Paul's definitely doing something radically different. I want to paint
that picture because let me tell you the trap some fall into as we get into exploring this.
There are some people who read their Bible, the Hebrew Bible, or if I use English translations
of their Old Testament, they call it. And then they see these prophecies that are used by New
Testament authors, whether it's Gospels or Paul either way, and they take it, this is what Christian
identity, for example, and other folks like that do. They see a prophecy, they get to the New Testament,
and they think the Hebrew context should impact the influence and understanding of the New Testament.
Therefore, when you see a passage that says something's supposed to happen,
they go to the New Testament, they see it's quoted or referenced. Therefore, the New Testament means
what the Hebrew Bible says. And why I think what you're going to do today in explaining this is
going to put a huge caution sign up for people is let's listen to the author of the New Testament
text. Before you try to make a connection, you need to stop and think, is this person known for
recontextualizing something out of its original context, and it may not even have anything to do
with the original context. It's just holy scripture, it's prophetic literature to them,
so it's sacred, and they're using it, and then they're just like people do today.
The end is near because Donald Trump said, and there's just Bible verse,
it has nothing to do with that, but they're pulling it. Paul's very prophetic, end of days.
All right, I'm done, I just wanted to paint a picture.
Well, let me start with Matthew actually to show you the difference, because Matthew's the one who
has all of these quotations. My favorite is, out of Egypt I've called my son, Jesus and Joseph,
and Mary make a trip to Egypt to flee the wrath of Herod before he dies, Herod the Great.
And this is to fulfill the scripture from Hosea, out of Egypt I've called my son. You go over to
Hosea, it's clearly talking about the people of Israel, not Jesus, and people go, oh, this is
quoted out of context. It is, but that's perfectly okay in rabbinic stuff, because it's like saying,
this is like that. Israel is a son of God, I've called my son, and now he has his beloved son,
Jesus, and he also went to Egypt. So it's almost like, hey, they both went to Egypt and got called
out of it. It doesn't really fit, like Jesus is an enslavery in Egypt, there's no tin plagues.
It's just a passing reference. That's not what Paul does. Paul takes about a half dozen key texts
that he sees as revelatory for a whole new way of thinking about the religion.
And that's not what Matthew's doing. When he says, out of Egypt I've called my son,
or even a virgin will conceive, even though, as we know the Hebrew is not the word virgin,
but people get all bent out of shape about that. Well, it doesn't really say virgin,
but the context is nothing to do with the time of Jesus. It has to do with this child being born
in the Hebrew Bible, one of the kings of Israel. And you can look it up in Isaiah 7,
it's very clear during the Assyrian invasion. So that's different. That's saying,
this is like that. A woman back then was a sign, a woman today is a sign. I'm actually okay with
that. What I'm not so okay with, or at least I want to point it out without taking sides,
is what Paul does. Now, let me start. I'm going to actually, here's my trusty RSV here. I'm going
to start with Romans 1. So I'll be almost like a preacher with my Bible here. I'll balance it on
my hand and wave my hands. Paul says, this is his declaration in Romans. It's his treatise on
my gospel. He calls it his gospel. I'm not ashamed of the gospel. It's the power of God for salvation.
To everyone who has faith. That's the new idea. To the Jew first and also the Greek. For in it,
the righteousness of God is revealed through faith for faith. So he's saying that the faith
reveals a certain kind of righteousness. As he's going to expound, it's not your righteousness,
but God imputes it to you. And then he says, as it is written, and here he's quoting,
he who through faith is righteous shall live. Now the way he quotes it in Greek and the way
it's translated in English is not the traditional way. This is actually a quote from Habakkot chapter
two that traditionally is quoted as the just shall live by faith. Now that's just a very anomalous
statement. Like you're a just person, a sadiq, you know, a righteous person. You live by faith,
right? Not by sight. You trust God. It's not really a big affirmation. It's made all the way
through the Hebrew Bible. He's taking it as it's how you get righteous. He who through faith is
righteous shall live. You see the difference? In other words, how do I get righteous? I'm unrighteous.
Oh, my faith will be my righteousness. And of course, it's as he explains, faith in the blood
of Jesus in chapter three. So to me, that's not Matthew making an illusion. This is like this.
No, this is not like Habakkuk. If you look up Habakkuk, he's talking about the end of the age
and the vision that he gave to the prophet because they thought the end was coming. And it's been
delayed. And so what the prophet says, Habakkuk, if it tarries, wait for it, it will surely come.
The righteous one will live by faith. Faith in what? That the vision will surely come. So you see,
you're taking it completely. It's not telling you how to get righteous. It's saying if you are
righteous, you're going to trust in God. If God said the end is coming, if it's delayed, then if
you're righteous, you're not going to give up on God. God must have a reason for delaying.
Now in the Dead Sea Scrolls, they quote this very verse. Paul's favorite, this is Paul's favorite
verse. He who through faith is righteous shall live. The whole Christian gospel is built on this
one verse. This is the pillar of Paul's thought for justification by faith, right? You're justified
by faith. Ephesians, all these places, not by works, but by faith. That's not what Habakkuk's about.
So when the Dead Sea Scroll group quotes it, how did they use it? They also expected the end.
People were beginning to give up and say, oh, it's not coming. We thought after 40 years of the
teacher's death, the end would come. There's a text in the scrolls. 40 years from the teacher being
gathered, all the men of evil will be destroyed. Well, now they're probably 50, 60 years past.
It didn't happen. They love this verse because it says, if it tarries, wait for it,
it will surely come. The righteous one will live by faith. So a righteous person wouldn't say,
forget that. God's either wrong or whatever, but he didn't keep his promise. So this is completely
different. To tell somebody, the way you get righteous is not your works, but faith versus
wait for the vision and don't give up. That's not just a gentle allegory about using some words
the same. We also see this problem in James in the opposite direction, it seems. So there's a
polemic here, and it's so taken out of context that you said what the original is. They're going
the other way. No, no, no, you've got to work and you'll get this righteousness. And it's like,
do you happen to know without getting sidetracked because you've got so many more scriptures to
get into? Where does that come from? Is there something in Rome or something in this time
that made people think having faith, this idea of a belief or actions will then cause the justification
or something? What is this justification by faith or by works idea? Do we have an idea in
philosophy? Is there something that you think is impacting that mindset? No, just I think what
I would just say at the Hebrew Bible, and this is not a new idea. Faith in the blood of Jesus
is a new idea. But having faith in order to be justified, it's not even worth doubting because
it's in every scripture. When David commits adultery and murder, one of the most beautiful psalms,
Psalm 51, his retching Psalm of repentance, he says, I have nothing to offer you except my
repentance and so forth. What can I bring to you? You're right. So he's trusting in faith that
he wants forgiveness of sins. Throughout the Hebrew Bible, it says as a father loves his children,
so the Lord will forgive us for our sins. So nothing in the Hebrew Bible says you have to
be self-righteous. This is like a caricature of Judaism. If you talk to any rabbi, how about Isaiah?
Our righteousness is as a filthy rag, which actually means a minstress cloth. So it's not
just a dirty rag you dusted with. It's like something you throw out because it stinks and it's rotten.
So that's not new. So his faith in the blood is this ongoing trust he's saying to put in. Since
Jesus in Romans 1.4, he's saying, since Jesus, being resurrected is a son of God. But it's like
it's the already but not yet. He's still waiting for the final and what we talk about the consummation,
the cosmic transformation. It's an already but not yet trust in that blood and we're going to get there.
Romans 8.1, there's no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. Well, Isaiah, Jeremiah,
the Psalmists, they didn't say that. They believed in faith, of course, but they didn't say,
but it has to be the blood. So that's what a rabbi would say about Romans 1 through 3,
where he says, well, all of sin, they would say, absolutely, of all sin. And what do we do? We
trust the grace of God, who's more abundant than a father is with his own children. He runs to
forgive you. This is all the way through the Hebrew Bible. So it's a caricature of Judaism as being
fossilized and legalistic and they're trying to earn their salvation. This is a caricature.
But the way he quotes it, he who through faith is righteous, is not just out of context,
it's a completely different meaning. And the next one is also in Romans and it's actually
makes the same point. And that's when he's talking about Abraham. And he's so glad that he found
a scripture in Genesis 15 verse 6 that Abraham, before he was circumcised, that's in chapter 17.
So I think the day he found this, he was jumping around the room. Wow. So my people aren't circumcised,
but if they believe God, they can be justified by faith because it says here, if Abraham was
justified by works, he has something to boast about. Well, of course he wasn't justified by works.
No human being is without sin. That's Hebrew Bible all the way through.
For what does scripture say? Now look at the quote, Abraham believed God and it was reckoned to him
as righteousness. Well, that sounds kind of good. Abraham's a sinner. But in Genesis 15,
is Abraham a sinner? What did he believe God? He put his trust in God. God had just told him,
you're going to have a son, you see, and that it's not going to be Ishmael. This is a son of promise.
And he believed God. And I would translate it and understand it. And I'm not, you know,
dogmatic on this. Abraham believed God and counted him as righteous God, not
Abraham became righteous by believing, but God said, I'm going to give you a son.
He didn't stagger an unbelief, as Paul says, but he was firm in his trust. So he believed God
and reckoned or counted God as righteous, meaning God's going to do what he said.
So it's almost the same point as Habakkuk on the end. Both verses that are his favorite verses
have to do with a righteous, not how to get righteous, but a righteous person having faith,
even if it looks like you're not going to have a kid because you're 99 years old and Sarah's
past, what is she, 75 or something, not menstruating. So, and he goes, no, I'm going to believe God,
and I'm going to count him as righteous. And if he said it, he's going to do it. I think
that's a better understanding of that verse. If you look, the Hebrew is pretty clear, really.
So technically, he misread it. He's not even, or he purposely did this.
Yeah, but it isn't just like Matthew. You say, oh, he misread out of Egypt. I call my son. He
didn't really misread it. He's saying this is that, but this is not that. This is not that. This is
not Habakkuk and this is not Genesis. So not only are you taking out a context, you're creating a
whole new meaning, and then building the bedrock of the Christian faith on these two verses.
Then, if you go to Galatians, which quotes the same scriptures.
This is my favorite one, personally. Yeah, and remember Romans, he'd never visited there.
But he does it also in a really strange way, where he's talking about a will or a covenant.
This is in chapter three. And he's already said, those who rely on work surrender a curse,
because it says, cursed is he who does not abide by every commandment.
Totally out of context. I'm not going to talk about that. But there's no place in the Hebrew
Bible where you have to have your righteousness to have a standing with God. It's always grace.
It's always grace. Have mercy on me, oh God, David prayed, according to your steadfast love,
according to your abundant kindness. He's not saying I'm righteous. He just committed adultery
and murder. He's saying I'm nothing. But my faith in you and your grace, you know, can, he said,
and then I'll be justified. Now look at this one, though. This is different. He says, if somebody
makes a will or a covenant, like with Abraham, God made a covenant. And he said, through your seed,
all the nations yet will be blessed. And he says, it does not say to your offsprings seeds,
referring to many, but referring to one. Well, in Hebrew, Zahra is seed, singular,
but it's also plural. And we use it that way in English. Someone spills their seed on the ground.
Remember the famous Onan story? What did he spell? One sperm spilled his seed. It's a
uniplural word. You know, we have plenty of words like that where they're singular, but they mean
plural, according to context. But he says, it doesn't mean plural. It means one. And you're
offspring, which is Christ. Again, if I go back to Genesis 12, and it's repeated a couple of times,
I give you the land, go from your country, and so forth. And in your seed, I'll make of you a
great nation. That's plural. Not I'm going to bring you a guy someday named Jesus. I'll make of
you a great nation. And through your offspring, and remember, when he's given that, he doesn't have
all these kids yet, right? It's the kid of promise. And so he says, it's offspring, not offsprings.
And it really means Jesus. Well, nobody could read Genesis 12, first few verses, one through three.
That's the fundamental promise of Abrahamic faith. Great nation, the land, blessings to the world.
It cannot mean through one guy someday. It's not messianic. It's not messianic. So he's taking
that. And I don't know, in Greek, you can make it plural. Say it's not offsprings, it's offspring,
but if you go to Hebrew, clearly seed. And Isaac has told that and Jacob, in your seed, what,
like one guy? No, you're offsprings. You're offsprings. Yeah, the story literally tells you the answer
if you read it. It literally goes on. And here, before we leave that one, if I may, just to bring
up a point, you don't have to bring it back up. But this, I want to get into the context here
real quick, briefly, I want to mention is what's Paul's point? What's he trying to do? And I want
to speculate with you, I want to throw this to you, see what you think as a scholar who's listened
to him for 40 years, okay? Paul's audience is trying to circumcise. What I think they're trying
to do is create proselytes to join the Christian movement. Let's make Christian Jews, let's convert
them to the proselyte, you know, make them proselytes to become Israel. You know, this is something
that was known in the Roman era. At this point, Paul's saying no, whatever his reason is, for not
wanting to circumcise them and make them become converted Jews, maybe he doesn't believe they
can, maybe he thinks no, you can't, you don't snip it on the eighth day, you're never a Jew,
you weren't born that way, you're not going to ever be that way, don't waste your time.
But in his mind, I think he's making this convoluted argument to say it ain't to the descendants,
don't let them proselytize you. In Jesus, he was the one. And if you're found in him, you're
adopted as Abraham's child. But notice in Galatians when he says, if you are Christ,
you're Abraham's seed, that should be singular according to him. And now he means it's plural,
you're Abraham's seed, you're not Christ, you're Abraham's seed plural. So he contradicts, he says,
seed is plural, not singular. I mean, seed is singular, not plural. And then when he quotes it,
all of a sudden it becomes you and me, and it's plural. So maybe he's like, he's making Jesus
almost like another Abraham, you see what I mean? In a way by saying, he's the promised one, but if
you're in him, you're an Abraham. Now, another one I would mention in a more lighthearted way,
but actually, as a vegetarian, I take it pretty seriously. And that is the kindness to animals
and treating animals correctly is a large part of the Torah. For example, on the Sabbath,
you have to let the animals rest as well. The rabbis say, before you sit down to eat,
feed your animals, a lot of farmers believe that, you know, you think of your animals, right?
So Paul is talking about supporting the ministry with money and funds. He says that I basically
have the right to do that, but I don't ask you guys because I don't want anybody to say,
I'm preaching for money, which is admirable. But then he says, do I say this on human authority?
This is 1 Corinthians 9 verse 8. Like, am I just making this up? He says, no, it is written,
same thing, it is written. You shall not mausoleum nox when it's treading out the grain.
Now, in context, if you look that up, it's for the sake of the animal. I mean, what an exploitation
that you don't even let the animal eat, but it needs to just work all day. So you let it eat some
of the grain that it is treading out, and everybody's happy. And he says, is it for oxen
God is concerned? Does he not speak entirely for our sake? Now, it'd be one thing if he said,
you know, by analogy, I'm teaching you and kind of like an ox working, I should be fed too. But he
says, this is talking about God doesn't care for oxen. This scripture isn't even about helping
animals. Paul didn't care about animals. That's clear. I don't think he has a dog or a cat. I'm
just joking. But I don't think he does. And he says here, it is written wholly for our sake. And
to me, that almost bothers me as much as the theological ones that we mentioned. Because I
think if you're not the righteous man, the scripture says in the Hebrew Bible, regards the life of his
animal. And Paul is now saying one of the great texts that remember the rabbis take something like,
don't trip a blind person. And you develop from that all the laws that we would call disability.
Like, you don't just go, well, if you're blind, I won't trip you. But if you're what, lame,
then I could trip you because it just says blind. You see, this isn't how the Torah works. The rabbis
take a command. You should not muzzle the ox, treading the corn. That gets expanded into a whole
thing about animal rights. All kinds of areas. You see, don't dig a ditch and let somebody fall into
it. Then you're liable. Say, well, I didn't dig a ditch, but I left a board with nails in it and
somebody stepped on it. It wasn't a ditch, so I'm okay. The Torah doesn't condemn me. You see?
So, what he's acting as though this is not some great principle for animal rights, and it really
is. And I don't think he's greedy because he says, I don't want your money. But I can't believe he said,
this is holy for us. Meaning, he thinks he's at the end. The whole history of the world is winding
up. So what you eat and what you drink and animal rights, all this is even male, female, marriage,
business. It's all passing away. Same book, 1 Corinthians 7. It's all passing away.
The appointed time has grown very short. The world is changing. So to him, he would probably say,
you know, that's a minor thing. But the main thing is we got to get the word out, and so people need
support. So I think that one almost bothers me more than the theological. The theological is up
here in the sky. This is more like taking something that's so beautiful. I think it's a beautiful
text that you could apply in a hundred ways towards animals that you deal with, you know,
being kind to them, considering their needs as well. Something else I just want to mention is,
when Paul says there's neither Jew nor Greek or Gentile, male nor female, free nor slave,
we know Rabbi Kiva's student had the morning, the prayer that you pray each morning. God,
I think that I was not born a Gentile, and I was not born a woman. And I read Paul's message,
and I guess if you put an apocalyptic eschatological twist to it, then, you know, you could possibly
have someone go, no, Paul would agree with the Rabbi's student's prayer, but because the end is
near, he doesn't. So Paul, for me, he's saying there's neither male nor female, free nor slave,
Greek or Gentile, or Greek, sorry, or Jew, and that's, we see that in the rabbis picked up,
but they're like, yeah, I'm glad I wasn't born a male or a female or a Gentile. Paul's saying
neither matters, and one can put the eschatological to it, but at the end of the day, you could also
have, no, Paul was really like, it doesn't matter. We're all going to be, that idea of being brides
of Christ, right? Like that weird, you know, I talked to a buddy of mine the other day, because
what do you think heaven would be like? We're going to be the wife of Jesus. We're his wife,
you know. How's that sound? Doesn't this sound kind of weird coming off your lips? And I guess
that might be allegory or symbolic language, whatever, but the point is, is like, does this
play some weird role in the new family of God idea that you write about in Paul?
I think he, I think it is eschatological, that if you think of those relationships,
he mentions them in 1 Corinthians 7. You know, he talks about if you're circumcised, don't undo it,
you know, which was the operation that some people did. If you're uncircumcised, don't do it.
If you're a slave, so he names these exact things. The women he names in another place in the letter,
chapter 11, basically says, go by the creation. There's God, the Lord, Christ, the male, the female,
and then I guess the dog and the cat or whatever. You know, there's a hierarchy. So he basically says,
yeah, women have to be subservient, as the Torah says. But he's concerned with, in this present
time, already not yet, as we talked about, we're not there yet. But in a way, we are there. We
can already begin living. Same thing with vegetarianism and wine. You know, maybe it is better if the
world was going to go on forever to be vegetarian and not drink wine. You know, maybe that's a better
life. But he, yeah, I think he thinks they have like a year, two years, three years to go. He
might have worked out some kind of thing. When Caligula tried to put his statue in the temple,
that was in 41. Oh, I think the whole Jewish world just went crazy because this fulfills
Daniel. And even though it didn't happen, it's like a trial run. And it's like, wow,
if it got that close, then all we need is a next crazy emperor. And guess what? Nero comes along,
you see. And he persecutes Christians in Rome, at least, and blames the fire on them and so
forth. So now Paul's living in some of that period with Nero, you know, after Claudius was
relatively stable. And he thinks, well, 666, I don't know if he said 666 with the book of
Revelation, you know, it works out to Nero's name. So now they're thinking he's going to do it. And then
there's the war with Rome. Oh my God. And the temple is destroyed, even though Nero by then
is dead, and maybe Paul's dead by then too. But for that brief moment of time, he writes Corinthians
maybe in the, you know, we say 50s, 51, 52, right in there. And I think if we ask him, since Caligula
had already tried this, he probably thinks, you know, we have five, 10 years at the most,
I think even less, because you could get married for 10 years and have a few kids. And he's saying,
no, the time is coming that those who have wives will be as those who have none. Same thing Jesus
said, you're going to flee. You don't want to be pregnant and nursing when that happens. So there's
nothing wrong with having children. But right before the apocalypse, don't plan the family,
because you're going to have a terrible time. So Paul's thinking apocalypse, because this
is where that preterist stuff comes into the mix. They'll say Paul's saying, flee to the mountains,
they're clearly indicating this is Jerusalem. Do you think Paul's thinking Jerusalem? Because a
lot of people want to harmonize Paul with the Gospels and think he's making 70 AD. I don't think
that because when he does mention Jerusalem and Galatians, he says Jerusalem above is the mother
of us all and so forth. And Jerusalem below is be getting children to slavery. He's got this whole
other heavenly earthly thing that I don't think you find in the synoptics, that dualism. Paul has
really got his head in heaven. He's made his ascent to paradise. I have this book. We're going to
talk about Paul's Thorn in the Flesh. This is my new book. And I wrote my dissertation on this,
but this is Paul's Ascent to Paradise. And this shows you, it's called the mysticism,
the message and mission of Paul in the light of his mystical experiences. I don't think Mark is a
mystic in writing Mark 13 or Luke in writing Luke 21. It's actually interpretation of what happened
when the Romans destroyed Jerusalem. And it's actually kind of anti-Jewish because Luke says
there's going to be great wrath upon this people and they're going to be led captive of all nations
and the times of the Gentiles will trample Jerusalem and so forth. Paul, I don't think,
I never see in Paul any concern with that geopolitical stuff. But the Caligula thing in 41,
I don't know how Paul was affected, but I think he must have felt that we could be really nearing
the end. But then Jesus will appear in the clouds of heaven and rescue us. So does it really matter
if you're married, not married, you know, slave-free, male-female? Does it really matter?
Because we're going to have this great transformation. I think that's the key to Paul.
Thank you.
