And that's dependent on your belief that human existence in some sense is a good,
and that it's striving towards some sort of higher unified order.
And you might think, well, you don't need all that to perceive the glass.
And the answer is, yeah, as a matter of fact, you need all of that to perceive the glass.
What Peterson claims to is dubious in a number of ways, right?
Yeah, and that's how he came.
It could go out to a different multiple.
Yeah, how can you really prove?
And I think he knows statistically his audience.
I think he knows he is pandering to a mostly Christian audience in America.
All right, welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
We are MythVision.
That's right.
I've got Nathan from Digital Gnosis for those who don't know.
Go subscribe to his YouTube channel.
Let me do you a favor here and pop this in the chat for everybody tuning in.
Last night, let me inform you what happened last night.
Last night I had a dream.
No, last night I was getting
decompressed from the day, from the week of recording courses with Richard Carrier.
And man, I was exhausted and I was scrolling through YouTube.
I got this recommended video and this recommended video was about Jordan Peterson.
Now, I've seen hit or miss.
I usually avoid the politics stuff, especially from him.
But it's like hit or miss, right?
Once in a while, you see something he says.
You see, holy shit, Muhammadi Jab is interviewing Jordan Peterson.
What's this about?
Or you see something like that and you're like, what is this about?
And of course, get ready for like gymnastics language and philosophy lingo and stuff.
Sorry to interrupt, but I don't know if you ever saw the Dawkins interview as well.
When Richard Dawkins raised with Jordan, like, so there's this clip of you,
Jordan, giving a lecture where you talk about taking psychedelics and seeing DNA.
And sure that you can't be serious.
And then Jordan just like goes full mask off and is like, yes, seriously,
when people take psychedelics, they can see into DNA.
This is what the ancient saw.
And it's like, what?
Yeah.
For example, even being able to do something as simple as looking at this glass,
simply seeing a cup requires the assumption of value judgments.
And there are two reasons for this.
The first is expressed here by Jonathan Pageau,
who appears to have had a huge impact on Peterson's thinking.
We can't perceive an is without a hierarchy.
This is one of those yes men you were talking about, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
So this idea actually comes from John Vaveke.
So John Vaveke is a cognitive scientist, assistant professor at University of Toronto.
I emphasise that not to be a douchebag, but just because sometimes people in that circle
inaccurately claim that he's like the head of the Department of Psychology to sort of like,
you know, build up his profile or something.
And so he's got this thing he calls relevance realisation,
which I'm a little bit dubious of because it kind of,
it borrows some terms from computer science.
And there's a lot of metaphor involved.
I'm not quite sure how tightly the like analogy actually holds.
But anyway, so he uses this thing and the idea is,
it's to do with how you pick out like salient features of the world.
And it's meant to be like this problem of general AI, right?
So if you're engineering a system, how do you pick out general features of the world?
And the idea is that, well, humans have this problem as a system
because we pick out features of the world as well.
Listen to him describe it, right?
Like we talk, he's trying to say value judgments.
And how do we like, how do we look at a cup?
It's got many details to it, but we still just call it a cup.
We've grouped it into all of these different details that we can get lost in
and many artists do, they'll spend months in the details,
the intricate details and stuff with their OCD and whatnot on certain things.
And that's needed for some people, but like most people just categorize something a cup.
I don't want to get lost in that because 99% of people go to sleep on that question.
It's irrelevant to the point I'm trying to bring up today, I think,
even though it's very significant if you really want to do a deep dive
and to follow Nathan, Nathan, you're like a, I like to call you a philosophy guru nut, okay?
Like you really are, man.
And it's good to have a guy like you around who can go cut the BS.
This is what they're trying to say, you know, because there's a lot of language
that this stuff hides behind.
Yeah.
Okay, we're going to see what he says here.
And because you can drink it and because you need to drink water to survive
and you are willing to drink water to survive
because you believe emotionally and motivationally
and perhaps rashly that survival is a good
and that's dependent on your belief that human existence in some sense is a good
and that it's striving towards some sort of higher unified order.
And you might think, well, you don't need all that to perceive the glass.
And the answer is, yeah, as a matter of fact, you need all of that to perceive the glass.
Why do you want to raise though at this point?
I think what Peterson claims here is dubious in a number of ways, right?
Because you could, this like chain of value judgments that he likes to talk about
and he has talked about this for years, you can bottom that out in a lot of ways.
Like you could actually just bottom that out as like someone caring about drinking.
You don't need to add in this extra thing, right?
About like, because if you just had that, it's going to stop somewhere
and that could be your ultimate thing.
And obviously you could call that God if you wanted to.
But you could also have lots of different stopping points.
So Peterson paints this picture as if the only way that the values can kind of like
map out is going up this hierarchy to one thing.
Yeah, and that's how it could go out some different multiple things.
Yeah. How can you really prove?
Yeah. So this is an interesting point.
And this actually connects to his idea about divine or God and things like that.
And we're going to get into that.
That's why I thought this is a great way Connor builds up to the point of where we're going with this
and where I think he's being deceptive.
And I know that that doesn't mean that I don't think he believes the bullshit.
I'm saying I honestly think he believes it, but I also know that he knows people are hearing him.
And I think he knows statistically his audience.
I think he knows he is pandering to a mostly Christian audience in America.
And they need to hear him not say historically, no.
Sort of. But I don't think he's thinking about it, though,
quite in the way that you think of that.
I think he's captured by the audience such that when he said certain things,
he's got like these positive rewards from doing it, like lots of likes on Twitter.
The things go up on YouTube or whatever.
And so I think he's not like thinking, how can I manipulate these people?
It's that doing that stuff is what gives him the most pleasure
because of the way that the feedback loops have all like how it could be both.
I think it's both.
I can't say that I honestly want to challenge you on this because here's my opinion.
I really do.
And you know, you and me can disagree on this at the end of the day.
It doesn't really matter.
But yeah, yeah.
Why I think this is when you have someone a fundamentalist,
a radical fundamentalist Muslim like Muhammad, he job who does.
He's asking very point in questions like he is saying the Trinity is illogical.
It doesn't make sense, right?
Which me and him, we are apples of oranges.
OK, like we do not agree in so many ways.
But there's questions he's asking in that interview where like Jordan could have
gave it easy answer, but instead he goes, what do you mean by do?
And what do you mean by mean?
And what do you mean by God?
And like, bro, you are obviuscating the question on purpose to manipulate
and control where you want your answer to go.
That's what I mean by deceptive.
So I think that is happening, right?
But I don't think that Peterson is like that's the thing is that from my point of
view, because Peterson isn't thinking, oh, yeah, like I actually think this,
but here's what I'll do to be manipulative.
I think it's like self justification and rational.
You know, it's like if you're trying to stop smoking or something, right?
And then maybe you have one and then you go, well, why did I do that?
And then rather than going, oh, it was like weakness of will or something.
Maybe you go, well, you know, I've been good to myself and I've got.
And you become genuinely convinced of like the justifications you come up with.
I think it's sort of, I think it's like that.
Like he's like, yeah, this is deep and profound.
And there are, you know, there are important questions about what do means
and what what means.
This is kind of kind of an apologist thing because if you take a Muslim who let's just
take flatter cosmology and import it into the Middle East in the seventh century
and recognize that the Quran speaks with cosmology that is dated.
Okay.
But you talk to a modern Muslim and they're trained to manipulate the worldview and the text
and things in order to pander to people in a 21st century.
You might go, are they lying?
Well, they may believe simultaneously.
They know they need to make the Quran not sound like a seventh century dated cosmology.
They need it to be God knows future science.
In fact, there's going to be science.
We're going to discover in a thousand years from now where God's going to know exactly
and the Quran is going to vindicate it or whatnot.
So I think there's an apologetic built into his whole thing is all.
And it sounds very dishonest.
That's what I'm trying to get at.
