Michael Jones from Inspiring Philosophy is a friend of mine, and so I'm going to be talking
to him on Wednesday the 8th here to talk about do, dying and rising gods, prove Jesus was
a myth.
Now, if that's the question, no, it doesn't necessarily equate the same, and he talks
about an equivocation fallacy.
He lobbed it at mythicists as well as skeptics.
However, I just don't think this spaghetti sticks to the wall.
Let me tell you why.
Number one, I think there is a special pleading that takes place here on Jesus and no other
figures.
We love to point out Jesus actually has these poor tents of his birth, Jesus actually rises
from the dead, Jesus actually ascends into heaven like Romulus, like other figures.
However, those figures, nah, they didn't actually do those things.
Those aren't actually true.
There's a lot in this video that I really appreciate.
So if you haven't watched the Michael Jones video, I really suggest you go down and watch
it because I'll probably do an exhaustive response showing you what I found interesting
that I actually think is quite interesting.
He brings up in the video, but this is just an off-the-cuff response to kind of give my
two cents.
I'm not a mythicist anymore.
I think there was definitely a Jesus.
I think that there's a lot of legend to Jesus' life, just like I think there was a historical
Caesar Augustus or Julius Caesar.
And I think that there's a lot of legend that is built up around these historical people.
So to say that you find common topos and tropes in these particular historical figures that
are legendary or go back to mythical figures like Romulus, Osiris, Asclepius, Hercules,
you name it, or even Dionysus, in particular case with John, the Gospel of John, maybe
even Acts of the Apostles, it's hard to kick against the goats with Euripides bachae.
But I'm like thinking, okay, hold on, maybe there is some type of particular topos that
is being used here doesn't mean that the historical events of some of these things didn't happen.
The real, when the rubber hits the road, I think is when you go, these things that we
have no real world experience of happening in our own situations from day to day.
This really happened with Jesus.
But when we look at the other gods and other figures, that did not happen to them.
They did not do those things.
As Kelsus says in one of his responses to one of the church fathers, that even people were
saying Asclepius appeared to them at their day, like people were saying, I have seen
Asclepius.
He has come and appeared to me.
Did this really happen?
Are Christians going to actually buy into this?
How far are you willing to go to not have special, special pleading or even double standards
when it comes to this claim?
Now in this video, there's some really good things Michael Jones actually does and shows.
Really my favorite is the Hector analogy, the hero Hector who's the defender of Troy
and when he dies, the city falls.
He compares this to Pompeii and of course Jesus and there are a lot of parallels.
Are these historical events later, literally historically what happened with the zero influence
from Homer and the Odyssey or with Hector, particularly in the Iliad?
No.
This is the point Dennis McDonald has been saying and other academics who noticed that
the author of Mark who would have had to learn about Homer's Iliad and the Odyssey in order
to learn to write Greek in this time, you had to know these stories and it wasn't just
that you had to know these stories to learn to write, they were in the air.
Let me paint the analogy to his example about Titan, a fictional ship that wrecks and sinks
in the ocean and the Titanic.
This Titan fiction was written 14 years before the Titanic.
There are a lot of things that compare that are very similar.
However, we know ships.
We know ships are normal.
It's not like you actually get all these other dying and rising or other ascension narratives
that you buy as real life experiences that happened throughout the ancient world.
You only do it with your figure, special pleading, but here's my point.
Ships are made, they sell, they sink.
When this prediction, as many people took it, happened and they said, you have to be
a clairvoyant.
You have to be a prophet or something.
How did you see into the future?
Carl Jung coined it and said it's synchronicities that are unconscious or conscious that these
coincidences happen, they're not really coincidences.
The point is they asked him this and what did he say?
He said, I'm just good at what I know.
What did he mean by that?
So I did a little digging when Michael Jones made this, use that example, and what did
I find out?
The fictional author of this particular novel that is talking about the Titan, this ship
and man, there are some coincidences.
I'm dead serious.
It's quite interesting when you compare them.
There are many differences as well that this author didn't get right about this comparison,
right?
It's not like he intentionally tried to write this.
Here's the deal though.
His father was also someone who owned a ship, who sailed the Great Lakes and eventually
his whole upbringing, he's on a ship.
He knows knots, he knows the size of boats, he understands how they work and this shows
within his fiction, he eventually sells and sees the broader oceans of the world and then
eventually becomes a jeweler and he's into jewelry.
He knew what he was talking about because these are real examples.
Now in the Mediterranean, there are mythologies and legends of people or gods that become
deified and have ascension narratives that do these particular miracles that may in particular
die and come back to life in some way or even die and then are brought back and go to heaven,
right?
This is a common trope.
You find this with Osiris, you find this with Asclepius, who raises someone from the dead
and Zeus zaps them dead and his father Apollo says, hey, no, so he made an exception and
brought Apollo up to Mount Olympus, making him into a god.
There are many examples that are mythical, like wholesale mythical that we would all
agree, I think me and Michael would agree, that didn't exist at all, like Asclepius,
like Hercules, like Romulus, like Osiris, right?
But then there are humans, real people, historical people who are what appears to be using the
topos of the mythology of Asclepius or of Dionysus or of Hercules or Romulus.
And I want to use the Roman imperial cult as one of those, especially since he brought
it up in the video.
Caesar Augustus, who became the priest of Rome, this guy brought peace.
He did all sorts of unbelievably good things for the empire.
And I would go so far as to agree with Dennis McDonald that the book of Acts is also a political
propaganda for the Christian movement over against the Roman imperial Giulio Claudio line.
This book is in response to the Aeneid that is the propaganda of the Roman empire and
the true son of God is not the Giulio Claudio line.
This is Jesus, who's the son of God, according to this narrative of Acts.
This is a kingdom, just like their kingdom, that is going to be an everlasting kingdom.
It is literally in opposition.
Here's my point.
Julius Caesar, Caesar Augustus, many other figures that deify and go and have an Ascension
narrative, they literally are riffing off of the Romulus narrative.
So when they're rewriting their stories or they're giving you portents or whatever, just
read Alexander the Great, read Romulus, read these figures that were historical and how
they were legendary, how they made them into legends and deified them with Ascension narratives
and the whole nine.
Now the question is, did Julius Caesar really ascend into heaven and become a God?
Haley's comment was evidence of that, according to Caesar Augustus.
So they observed this portent in the sky, this evidence that he has become deified.
And there is the evidence, he has become a God, Julius Caesar.
Guess who's the son of Julius Caesar?
Caesar Augustus, okay?
This is his evidence of saying, and guess who else will become a God, me, this guy.
So here is the son of God, who literally is going to have an everlasting kingdom and bring
peace to the earth in competition with another son of God, who's going to bring a kingdom
and peace on earth and all that.
Jesus is literally a propaganda against the propaganda of the Roman imperial cult.
And if you read it within the zeitgeist, sure, they're going to use legend.
Of course, they're going to make him look better than Caesar Augustus.
Of course, they're going to make him better than the other gods.
That's the whole goal.
It seemed like Michael Jones is pushing Christianity to an unfalsifiable proposition
because, yeah, so what, they're borrowing narratives from the Hebrew Bible.
Yeah, so what, what if they are borrowing and he doesn't say that they are, but what
if he wants to grant dying and rising gods for the sake of the argument, he wants to
grant that other mythologies have these kind of narratives and Christianity seems to be
riffing off of it.
Let's grant that for the sake of argument that that's the case.
That still wouldn't prove that this one's a myth or this one's a legend.
And that's his thinking.
And I'm thinking to myself, what would prove that this is legend in myth?
If it walks like a legend, if it talks like a legend, if it has the tropes of a legend
and it has portents of legends, how far do you have to see a legend before you find
finally go, you know, there's a lot of legend here.
Even Christian scholars like Dale Allison Jr.
say, OK, I think the birth narratives and Matthew and Luke are legendary.
Does that mean there may not be some kernel of history there?
No, the likeliness of trying to sift through that legend to discover history is unlikely.
And if we're honest, we shouldn't be like we know with absolute confidence what actually
happened.
These Gospels, I'm trying to point out, they're filled with this kind of stuff.
And in the end of the video, he wanted to do what I would call somewhat an equivocation
fallacy.
Jesus, calm the storm.
Only God can calm the storm.
Therefore, Jesus equals God.
Interesting syllogism there, because most of the scholars I talk to say, no, Jesus was
not God, Yahweh, he was not Yahweh.
He was the emanation, the image he had God on earth power, if you will.
Like this is the reflection of God, not that he is God.
Is that an equivocation fallacy?
Because God can calm storms.
Jesus, calm storms.
Therefore, Jesus is God.
I would go a step further, right?
The same storm calming location is called the Sea of Galilee.
Porphyry critiques the Christians and saying this was never called the Sea of Galilee
till Christians came in with their Gospels.
Are the Christians, once again, in the topos of the Mediterranean legends and the seafaring
people in the Greeks and the Romans, are they trying to riff into this bigger, larger
mythos that's within the Mediterranean world?
I would say yes.
So I could go on and on and on.
He brought up this moon that there are legends that people would go to the moon.
There's been people have been making this up for millennia about the moon.
There's something about the moon.
Even Paul talks about the moon in 1 Corinthians 15 that I find significant.
I don't want this to be too long.
There's a lot that I could say here at the end of the day, if it walks like a duck,
talks like a duck, quacks like a duck, and we're going to say, does it mean it's a duck?
I don't think that that's being fair and honest with the material.
His comparison to Homer or really the Iliad with Hector's death.
There are a few things when he compared them that I didn't even see him mention that are worth mentioning.
When Hector's dragged around by a chariot for three days by Achilles after he kills him,
he does it for three days.
He doesn't mention this in there.
There's a three day motif in Jesus.
There's a three day motif, of course, with Hector.
Now, that just might be a common three day thing.
I'm just throwing more parallels.
Now, I called Dennis McDonnell and said, hey, Dennis, I'm wondering,
is there anything in the death of Pompeii that might signal that they are
retelling or framing in the topos of Hector's death for the death of Pompeii?
And he says, I wouldn't put it past it.
He doesn't know, but I wouldn't put it past it because the greatest hero you would want
in the history of your Mediterranean Greek world is Hector.
He dies a heroic death.
He's a mortal who faces it without fear and goes in and does what he does and dies like a man.
This is how it's painted.
Jesus seems to do the same thing.
And so does this guy, Pompeii.
Am I saying Jesus didn't actually die?
No.
But when I asked Paula Fredrickson, Paula, what can we be confident or at least have confidence
in that is historically reliable about Jesus?
She said, we can be pretty confident that this
guy almost certainly was killed, crucified, and most likely crucified by the Romans,
right?
Because Jews aren't crucifying people.
Romans are.
Well, what is she saying that we should do?
Draw a line through the Gospels back to Paul.
And if you find it in Paul, you have a good reason to think that there's likely an early
enough attestation in Paul that suggests that this guy actually was killed.
OK, nobody's denying that.
Does that mean that he walked through walls and teleported and walked on water and rose the
dead and rose from the dead himself, calm the sea, ascended and floated up to heaven like Romulus?
That's historical, but the others are not.
Show me any world examples like the ship where we know people build ships.
We know people actually sell ships, sell on them and wreck, things like that happen.
Real world examples.
And then find that and analogize that.
Give me real world examples of all these miraculous things about Jesus
that you can show in other figures that is this the only one
that you can really give good evidence for?
You might run to the Old Testament and go, oh, no, no, we grant that those stories are true,
too.
But none of the other ones.
Where does the genre of legend finally play its role?
I mean, we could be rationalists and assume that real people are out here doing miracle
workers like a third world country where people are out here tricking people and
making people think their legs are extending and they're healing them and all of this stuff.
Or we could say there's a trope of portents and miracles and such that somehow play a role
into the narrative of Jesus.
I mean, I can't prove to you that Jesus didn't do these things,
but you damn sure cannot prove that he did.
There's no way when you see it walking, talking, looking, smelling, acting like a duck
and you have no other real world examples of ships or of legends about the moon.
And then finally, we go to the moon.
Holy smokes.
We actually have good reasons that don't require some unbelievable proposition
and special pleading for those to actually have happened and occur.
Coincidence?
Yes, but this one's true.
I find that ironic.
I just, I think that that's not being fair with the evidence and it's pushing Christianity
away from being unfalsifiable because one could try to do that with any of the other myths as well.
Thank you.
I look forward to our conversation coming up soon.
I'm a good friend of Michael Jones and I think or I like to think I am.
I really do like Michael Jones.
He reminds me of me in many ways.
That's my perception, right?
He reminds me of me when I was a Christian who wanted to try to shift his ideas and arguments
for the truth, try.
I mean, there are limitations I do think and I think that tribalism plays some significant role here.
You can have David Faulk who does a video critiquing his exodus thing,
mocking and bullying in his response with the popcorn review of Michael Jones,
which was just unnecessary.
Jones removed the video to remake an exodus video and actually took the criticisms from Faulk
to make his new exodus video.
The same thing can be said about his Genesis stuff where he said he was once a young
earth creationist.
So was I and he realized he was getting his ass whipped in all the debates.
So was I.
I played with old earth creationism.
I started to look at other things like John Walton and other interpretations like covenant,
sorry, covenant creation, which is a whole different thing.
It's in the middle.
It's in the vein of Walton's work, but it's more preterist wise.
So full preterist wrote a book called Covenant Creation.
If you haven't checked it out, it takes things really far and I'm not going to get into the
weeds there, but he changed his ideas.
Is this idea about Jesus too far for him?
Sincere question.
Is this particular sensitive subject about Christianity and Jesus, the heart of everything
that you hold dear too far and the boundaries of the tribe of Christianity and the tribe
of those who are skeptical?
Is there a limit on what he's willing to do on that?
And I wonder if it is.
I think I'm correct on this assessment and I think that there's a boundary in which,
if it's not coming from a brother of Christ in the Christian circles, and I'm psychoanalyzing
here, I know, and I could be wrong.
I'm admitting this.
I'm telling you my honest opinion that I am concerned that if I bring a criticism that I
think is a valid point here, that it'd be amazing to see Jones head in the John Shelby
Spong and other more open progressive ideas pertaining to this argument about Jesus and
grant that there's a lesson to be told in the narrative.
David Friedrich Strauss, this joker.
I mean, make it the myth.
The myth is where the power, the story is where the power is, not the literal history
that this really literally happened.
I just opened the Aeneid.
In fact, I opened the Aeneid in the Odyssey and the Aeneid is a really good rewrite of
Homer's Aeneid in the Odyssey for the Romans by Virgil.
But in the Odyssey, book 10, you have we passages and stuff.
When you read this, when you read this literature, you go, man, is this historical?
There's a lot of places and people and things mentioned.
It almost sounds somewhat realistic.
But in most cases, you would say, no, this is a narrative and maybe framed out after
geographic locations, certain events may actually play a role like the Trojan war,
maybe playing a role, highly legendary fictional narrative surrounding geographic
and potentially actual events that have occurred throughout history,
but they've heightened it into a narrative format.
I think the same thing can be said about Jesus' gospels and acts.
And I wouldn't be shocked if you're swimming in a world, boats in his analogy with Titan
and Titanic, you're swimming in a world with gods that have powers that ascend to heaven,
literally have ascension narratives and such that you're swimming in a world.
And next thing you know, your guy is also doing the same thing.
I think you need to prove your guy really did the things you claim
and show other real world examples.
And the only way I think that that would be a strengthened case is if you grant
that the other narratives of the other gods and demigods, men, et cetera,
are true or actually happened.
Apart from that, I see no reason to buy that this really happened other than,
well, people believed it happened, as if people didn't believe Asclepius appeared to them
and healed them, as if people didn't believe that Dionysus really was this divine God
who had brought the mine ads out into the wilderness into a frenzy,
as if people didn't believe that Osiris really rose and literally resurrected from the dead.
I mean, this is one of those things.
It becomes unfalsifiable.
I look forward to our discussion, Michael.
I hope more people will go watch your channel.
I really do appreciate the dialogues with you.
And I hope that people are listening and considering what we're saying from both sides.
I want to hear you out and I know that you'll hear me out.
And we can show that people in two different tribes can get along even if we disagree.
Thank you.
