Help MedVision keep bringing you material by becoming a Patreon member, as well as PayPal.
Like, share, subscribe, and comment.
Join the Patreon to get early access to videos and check out the website.
Come on, subscribe to his podcast.
We are MedVision. Welcome back to MedVision Podcast. Early Mormon history, Joseph Smith,
the craziest story I've ever heard. And man, I've been here in Scientology stuff with
Leah Remini, the aftermath on the A&E show that's on Netflix. And I'm like, oh my gosh.
But if they only knew what this guy did, I mean, this is just, this makes Elron Hubbard look like
a saint. So this is a very, very interesting podcast because of you two gentlemen. All thanks
to you two gentlemen for the insight, for the charismatic, you know, enthusiasm that you guys
are bringing and the depth that we're willing to go into the story. And man, we're just scratching
the surface. Well, I can't imagine going to Bryce Blankin-Agel's naked Mormonism podcast,
which you guys are told and commanded by one of the 10 Commandments on MythVision
that I have. Thou shalt subscribe to anyone who's on my show
or thou get condemned forever, cooked in the broiling of God's wrath or something like that.
It's something like that. So go down in the description, join his Patreon right now. It's
free. And yes, you might get a cup of coffee extracted from your bank account every once
in a while to hear an amazing podcast in depth on the history of Mormonism. And that's Bryce
Blankin-Agel, the host of Naked Mormonism podcast. And then we have David Fitzgerald.
David Fitzgerald loves to talk about all sorts of heretical stuff. A lot of times sexual things,
just being honest, because you talk about that. I mean, that's a very hot topic.
But he has written the book, The Complete Heretics Guide to Western Religion,
the Mormons in his book one, the Mormons, guys, you have to get this book. This is a must get,
you can get an ebook, you can get it paperback if you're like me and you like to touch the book
that you're reading. And he has a Patreon as well. You guys, it's brand new. Go support him or I will
invoke the commandment in the wrath. And there's like plagues that come with it too, something like
that. Anyway, guys, I can't believe we just went through the theology, the polygamy. Oh my gosh.
And there's so much more that we couldn't, we just don't have the time to get into. Bryce,
where do we go since you gave us some snippets of Bennett? And I was like, oh my gosh, what happened?
Something happened. Take over, guys. I'm so excited to see where we go.
Right. This is this is some of the funnest period of Mormonism right here. We're in the late
Nauvoo era, right? So Joseph Smith always had some really revolutionary and theocratic
aspirations throughout his entire career, throughout his entire life. And when the
church started in New York, it was campy, it was 60 people, it was, it was, it was the birth of
something great and people could sense it. When he gets to Kirtland, he gets to try out sorts of
things and he gets to grow and expand his church and he begins getting all of these revelations
and the church expands wildly and it incorporates communalism and, you know, the consecration of
property and all of these dictatorial fiat that are given by the mouthpiece of God. And it really
selects a group of followers who are very loyal to the one true prophet, the messenger of God,
the mouthpiece. Missouri is when Joseph Smith really gets to test out his his militant aspirations
and he had tried that with Zion's camp back in Kirtland, but it wasn't until he was with, you
know, in all out war with the state of Missouri that he becomes a military religious leader.
Becomes very dangerous, but once Nauvoo comes along, the Nauvoo era of the church is truly the
most fascinating because Joseph Smith was given the the most power he ever had and he became so
much more dangerous in Nauvoo because the city was his city and he was in control of everything
and everything that happened in Nauvoo happened with Joseph Smith's knowledge. He becomes the
criminal kingpin that he aspired to become back in Kirtland and New York and Missouri,
but in Nauvoo he actually does it. He actually becomes a criminal kingpin and he's able to do
this because of the Nauvoo Charter and we discussed that a few weeks ago, right, before we took our
break to talk about theology and polygamy, but the Nauvoo Charter, when I talked about it on my show,
on my show, I called it God mode Joe because it's like he put in the cheat codes to have, you know,
infinite stats and infinite health and, you know, infinite defenses and the thing is the
Nauvoo Charter created his municipal court that ran under his direction. It was staffed with all
of his cronies and it allowed the city to pass bills and to collect taxes and to do everything
necessary to run as a city, but the thing is the whole thing was his machination. It was all his
and he ran everything and that Nauvoo municipal court came to be a sticking point that eventually
led to his death because it was a banana republic court, right? It was whatever he wanted, whatever
outcome he wanted on any case, the court would reach that outcome and witnesses could be produced
for anything and everything that needed to be said in the court. And even when you were dealing
with outsiders outside his little pocket theocracy, he'd have habeas corpus ritz written up by the
government of Nauvoo that would keep him out of, you know, from bounty hunters and, you know,
marshals, federal marshals to come and get him very handy stuff.
Yeah, and this really came to a fore in middle of 1842 where we kind of left off the timeline,
right? So the last things that we were discussing in the history timeline was
the endowment ceremony being introduced, you know, the the spread of polygamy.
And we talked a bit about John C. Bennett, right? And John Bennett was this guy who was,
you know, living with the Smith family for 18 months. He was a very close friend of Joseph Smith.
The guy was the mayor of Nauvoo. He was incredibly well connected. He was also the
quartermaster general of the Illinois State Militia. So he was able to supply the Nauvoo legion, the
city's mandatory service militia with state armaments, lots of guns. So he was an incredibly
powerful person to have as a right hand man to Joseph Smith. But he was also, you know,
he was he was a kindred scoundrel. He was he was kind of kind of a dick.
But you did mention that they they had a celebration. And during the celebration,
they kind of showed the person who visited that was not a Mormon, who was like, there's a real
problem. Who was that person's name again that you said there's a serious problem here?
Right. That's Thomas Sharp. And Thomas Sharp is the editor of a paper called The Warsaw Signal,
right? And the Warsaw Signal is a testament to how important local reporting is and local
newspapers, right? Because we get the, you know, the AP News Services, and we have all of the
national syndicates of news coverage. Most of their reporting comes from local reporters,
right? Most of the stuff that we see in headlines and CNN, all that stuff is collected by a small
local town's news agency. And then those bigger syndicates just pick up the stories and reprint
them, right? And very much so, that was the same case with with the 19th century as well.
But very much more so because it took the actual printing, there wasn't the the advent of online
press, where all of the the news agencies look like they have equal credibility, right?
When it came to local newspapers, it required the New York Tribune and the Chicago Times,
and it took these large newspapers picking up local newspapers and reprinting them
for the nation to get the rest of the story. And then once one of the big syndicates picked it up,
but then all of the other nationwide syndicates would pick up the stories as well. So the Warsaw
Signal and Thomas Sharpe's paper, it was absolutely crucial to inform the rest of the nation on what
was going on with the Mormons, right? And I got to make a comment on this because we never touched
on this that I think is important. It's been still in the picture when Sharpe's in the city.
Yes, yes. So very quickly, when it comes to the the localities, we have a novel that's on the
peninsula on the river, about 25 miles south down the river is the town of Warsaw. And then
directly east from Warsaw by another 10 miles or 15 miles, I think is the town of Carthage. Now
Warsaw and Carthage are the hotbeds of anti-mormonism. And when I say anti-mormonism, I mean
Thomas Sharpe founded the anti-mormon political party. Literally called it the anti-mormon political
party because he recognized how powerful Joseph Smith was becoming. And the only way to combat
the Mormon political party was with the anti-mormon political party. So this guy, Thomas Sharpe,
witnessed a ton of soldiers, seeming soldiers. He knew that this is a military. And that's what I
was going to ask is they buried this cannon a long time ago, ladies and gentlemen, do you remember
when they buried this thing? What happened to that cannon, Bryce? Tell us about this. So, right.
So I read a paper. God, this this must have been four years ago. So I'm struggling to remember
the details of it. But this cannon actually had a name. It was like old Betsy or something like that.
And I want to say that the article is written by Cheryl Bruno, but she tracked down the location
of the author of the article was able to track down the location of this cannon. And they buried
it in 1838 when they suspected that a surrender was going to happen and that the Mormons would
have to give up all their guns. And only the Mormons knew where that cannon was buried.
I believe it was two years later, they went and discovered the the cannon and they I believe
they brought it back to Navu with them. This is a small cannon, though, right? It is a cannon,
but it's like it's a little like six pounder or whatever. It's just a little little cannon.
And it was used for celebratory purposes on their July 4 celebrations, as well as during
this military parade that Thomas Sharp went and observed and was like, oh, holy crap, what's going
on here? They shot a cannon at that parade as well, which may or may not have been that cannon.
So they did recover that cannon. Interesting. I'm sorry. All right. But it's it's it's also
terrifying, right? Because that was stolen from the Missouri militia. That's dangerous. You're
you you transported stolen armaments from the government across eight lines. Like
and when you think about as you started the anti-mormon party, it's like they had already
seen a year before what happened in Missouri when this little theocracy is actively at war
with its neighbors and people are getting killed over it. I would think they'd be pinging their
pants at the thought of these guys militia getting bigger and bigger and bigger and more
equipped and connected to the to the reins of power, you know, just seeing growing political
influence and military influence in numbers. Yeah. So let me let me steer us on track because I know
me and I love the details, but we got to figure way back onto the train tracks. And so this guy
Bennett, you said he defects, but he doesn't just defect. There's a propaganda that develops against
this guy. And this guy is helping make this possible. If it weren't for this guy, Joe Smith
cannot get his crap in order. He's sending like his top dogs to go to Europe to help find people
to recruit and now they're coming back. And there's this thing growing the city, you know, he's the
vice mayor and all this stuff. And Bennett is a big guy in the picture. What happens to this guy?
What what is going on here? So there's it's kind of tough to tell exactly how this played out.
And what we do know is that it probably centered around the assassination attempt of Governor
Lilburn Boggs. And I would argue it even happened earlier than that with the polygamist
attemptings of the failed seduction of Sydney Rigdon's daughter from Joseph,
which he blamed on Bennett because Bennett had told the girl ahead of time that what Joseph was
up to. And their relationship was never the same after that. Yeah, they're okay. So there are a
couple of components that caused the relationship between Joe and Bennett to sour, right? And
that that Nancy Rigdon was one of the issues with Martha Brethren locking her up in the room and
and and forcibly pushing her to marry Brigham Young. That was another problem. Sarah Pratt,
also Sarah Pratt and John Bennett were good friends. Maybe maybe they were more than friends,
maybe not. It doesn't matter. But Sarah Pratt refused Joseph's advances and he began attacking
Sarah Pratt. And then the assassination attempt of Governor Boggs, right? So all of these factors
played into Joseph and Bennett, you know, their their relationship was groaning by April of 1842.
When was it that actually that Joseph denounced Bennett publicly for the first time?
Joe suspected that Bennett was had plans for Joe or that Bennett was was a danger
right on April, including planning to kill him in an accident. Yeah, yeah. So there was a military
another military parade that was scheduled for April 6th, because that's the anniversary of the
church. It was the 12th anniversary of the church. It was scheduled for the April 6th. And Bennett
was very particular about Joseph Smith standing in a very particular place during the drills.
And Joe was like, No, I'm not into it. No, thanks, bro. But yeah, Joe thought that Bennett was
trying to get him killed by a military drill accident, you know, accidental discharge of a gun
or something, which is totally plausible. Absolutely. But yeah, by early 1842, absolutely
plausible. And also, I think that Bennett was scared of Joseph Smith's power when it came to
Governor Littleburn Boggs, right? So Boggs was the governor that had signed the Mormon
extermination order. It was because Boggs refused to take a hands on approach in the
Missouri Mormon War that things spiraled out of control so quickly. And in 1842, the state of
Missouri published all of the documents relating to the Mormon War that they had collected that
they were trying to prosecute Joseph Smith for. But because he wouldn't step foot back in the state
of Missouri, they couldn't actually get him, right? They needed an extradition warrant from the
governor of Illinois that was signed by both governors of Missouri and Illinois in order to
extradite Joseph Smith across the border to face prosecution in Missouri. So they released all that
treasure trove of documents and dated that they had collected during the prosecution. And Bennett
saw all of this and he knew that Porter Rockwell had been sent to fulfill prophecy. And two days
after Porter Rockwell gets back into Nauvoo, word arrives that Governor Littleburn Boggs has
tragically been shot and he's not going to make it. He did end up making it, but the assassin
fired buckshot through a window into the guy's study at night. And he caught two balls to the
neck, one of which he immediately swallowed and another ball to the head. And he was suspected
to be dead within a few days, but he ended up surviving it. Right. Tough bastard. I heard
the shots were arranged differently in most myths of school. But yeah, the business about
swallowing the ball is like, ah, but yes. Yeah, he caught one in the neck and swallowed it. Do you
think this was a Mormon assassin? We know with extreme confidence that it was Porter Rockwell
because the police investigation showed it. Oh, the gun, they traced the gun to this local business
and this guy who had come up from the north who was Porter Rockwell. You know, there's very strong
lines of evidence tying him to the place, tying him to the gun, tying him to the weapon. And Porter
Rockwell is the crazy looking guy, right? That was the prophesy to never die. Right. Okay. Well,
that didn't happen yet. That's true. That's when he came back from all this. Okay, right. So let's
get a view of Porter Rockwell just because he truly is something special. Look at this guy, right?
And his book, this is his biography by Hal Schindler. It's from the 1960s, but it is
a remarkable book. But yeah, this guy is just intense, right? Yeah. Those pit bull eyes of
his just kill me. He looks like he's walking away with rabies. Right. And I will show everyone
this is actually my favorite whiskey. It's out of a distillery in Ogden, Utah. And it's basically
fireball but with honey infused in it. And it's just so good. But yeah, it's Porter's fire and
it has the prophecy on the back of it. It's really cool. That's awesome.
Yeah. So we think it's Porter Rockwell. He was he's at the time he had the motive.
He had a weapon, the weapon that was used after he fired it. He loaded the gun too hot. He fired it
and it fell beneath it landed on the ground in the mud. It was raining when he fired and he wasn't
able to recover the gun. He ran away too quickly. So the constable investigating the the the
assassination attempt was able to recover that gun and trace it back to the shop owner who said
that the gun had been stolen just a few days before. That's when Porter Rockwell got into town.
Yeah. He was also working at that very place. It wasn't just he was working nearby at a stable
working for a guy taking care of his horse. Porter loved his horses. He loved his race horses.
Yeah. So and carriages too. So when Porter gets back, Joseph Smith gives him a brand new carriage
and Porter Rockwell at this point becomes the taxi service of Nauvoo. So anybody comes into town
off of a steamer up the Mississippi or down the Mississippi or whatever. They need to go somewhere
in town. Porter Rockwell shows up with his fancy new carriage and takes him and maybe he hears what
they're conversating about while he's on this this trip. He was typically a very quiet individual.
He didn't speak up very much. He was illiterate and maybe he heard stuff. Maybe he transferred
that back to his old childhood friend, Joseph Smith. These guys have known each other since
Porter was four years old and Joe was nine or 10 years old. So they have been best friends since
childhood and he was a scoundrel. He was he was one of these these rats. So you know Porter Rockwell
probably pulls this trigger and it divides historians. There's people say that it was
political opponent because that was a propaganda that Joe used at the time
because Boggs was running for state senate at that time. I don't find that likely. I simply
don't. Nobody else hated Governor Boggs more than the Mormons. Porter Rockwell was there
when it happened and he got back in Nauvoo just two days before news arrived that that Boggs had been
shot, right? Right. Anyway, yeah. So then what happens to Bennett and Joe? I mean there's
there's some crap going on. What leads to to Bennett's defecting and what happens to Joe?
So Joe holds a high council meeting and it excommunicates John C. Bennett.
For what? Who is I think the the charges were unchristian like conduct and speaking
word of the the Lord's prophet or something. It was but yeah, yeah, yeah, both those things,
but also under the surface abortions adultery, making fun of spiritual wifery, that kind of thing.
Yeah. And it's kind of tough to tell the differences between what Bennett was doing and
what Joe was doing here because they were they were doing the same thing. Joe was just the
guy who said that I speak for God while he's doing it, right? They both they both.
Bennett owned a bottle, right? If things are done slightly different, we're talking about
John Bennett through this whole thing and not Joseph Smith. Yeah, very, very much so.
He's in the fog. Absolutely. Was he practicing polygamy too, Bennett?
Yeah. So he was. He was also, you know, he was helping the people who were caught up in it to
conceal the evidence of it, right? He was he was one of the few people who was in high church
leadership ranks who I think the the women who were caught up in this actually ended up trusting.
And I use for evidence for that is how many women gave him information to be printed publicly with
their names attached to it. Right. So they must have trusted him to some degree, or he must have
been the lesser of two evils to some degree for them to go against the will of the prophet and
to send their letters and data to him for his expose. I hadn't thought about that aspect,
but that makes a lot of sense, too, because neither of them is really above the other morally or
ethically. They are basically clones of each other. You know, Joseph, boom, you know.
They kick him out, David, and excommunicate him. What happens in that? Is that like a
pinnacle moment in the situation where? Yes. Does he go go out kicking and screaming saying no or?
He flees. He gets he gets the hell out of Navu. He knows what's up. Yeah, he goes to Carthage,
actually. And Carthage ends up becoming his home for a few months while he's collecting all the data.
So immediately, he begins writing letters to the Cingamo Journal, letters to the editor of the
Cingamo Journal, which was a fairly large newspaper in Illinois. And they publish all of his letters
in total with the extra documents that he had collected. And they were basically just
exposé, general exposés of Mormonism and of polygamy and of the political machinations of the
Mormons and of so much that's going on. But also, Bennett openly says that Joe told Porter Rockwell
Lilburn Boggs. Lilburn Boggs also wakes up and files an affidavit on July. I think it's like
July 2nd or something, 1842, where he says that Lilburn or that Porter Rockwell and Joseph Smith
tried to murder him. So he he survives and not only survives, but he makes an affidavit claiming
that it was the Mormons, it was Porter Rockwell who tried to kill him. So with the weight of Governor
Boggs having woken up and filing that affidavit and Porter Rockwell being at the focus of all of
this and now Bennett defecting and publishing in his letters in the Cingamo Journal that Joe told
Porter Rockwell to go kill Lilburn Boggs, immediately the Danites are out hunting John C.
Bennett. I just want to point out that there's even more of the story that we're zipping over
right now. It's like there's so much more that's been happening behind the scenes of this. But anyway,
let's keep continue. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, so Porter Rockwell confronts John C. Bennett in Carthage
and Carthage is one of the two cities of anti-mormonism, right? Warsaw and Carthage are these two
cities that are directly south of Nauvoo that are the hotbeds of anti-mormonism.
So Carthage and Warsaw are the only places that John C. Bennett would be safe. So Porter Rockwell
comes and confronts John C. Bennett while in Carthage and says stop printing those lies about me,
attacks him, they get into a scuff and the citizens in the tavern kick Porter Rockwell
out of the tavern and say he's not welcome here anymore because the people know who Porter Rockwell
is. They know that he's one of Joe's hitmen. They know he's a Danite, right? Yeah. And I mean,
just as a gunslinger alone, he's estimated to have killed 38, 40 people that they know about.
You just spoke in tongues. David, you just spoke in tongues, bro. Sorry. Sorry. Yeah,
I was just going to say and Porter Rockwell at this time, he was growing this reputation
as a gunslinger. By the time he was done, there were at least 38 or 40 open outright shootings
that they knew that he'd just come up to a dude and shot, you know, aside from all the skull
duggery that we don't know about or don't have records of or have secret records of.
And one thing that's that plays into one reason why Warsaw and Carthage hated the Mormons so
much was the Mormons are also really bad neighbors. There was what was known as the
River Rat problem. And I don't think there's evidence that Porter Rockwell himself was a
River Rat, but what the River Rats were do would or who they were, they were people who would go
out on nights and a little skiff on up and down the Mississippi, and they go to nearby settlements,
non-mormon settlements and steal a bunch of property. And then then it would be distributed
among the citizens of Navu. Some of it would find itself wound up in the inventory of Joseph
Smith's red brick store and would be sold to the Mormons. So the River Rat problem was a huge issue.
And whenever somebody would come into Navu and say, hey, that man showed up at my farm and stole
my tools or stole my horse or stole whatever, the person would be brought into the Navu
municipal court. No evidence could be found that they ever did such a thing and they would be
immediately released and never prosecuted for any of this, right? So this municipal court,
once again, is causing a rift with the rest of the cities that are non-mormons,
because the Mormons are exercising so much power and they're not beholden to any loss. Joe
is the lawgiver. Whatever he says goes, and that's not how we do America. That's not what this,
it was still so early in the American experiment. This is terrifying.
Picture if Illinois had turned into Utah, what the world would look like or America would look like.
Briefly it was, right? Briefly it was. Navu was the largest city in Illinois, right? I mean,
at its height in 1844, it was something like two to three times the size of Chicago. It was a massive
city. I was trying to remember what the military strength of the Navu Legion at this time was
compared to the state and the federal government at the time. It was dangerous. It was a major
threat. Yeah, so by 1844, yeah, so because service in the Navu Legion was compulsory,
they had about 3,500 armed fighting men in the Navu Legion, which is, that rivals the size of
basically any state militia. That rivals the size of a militia that the federal government could
bring together at the time. That's a huge militia and it's for a city. It's not for a county. It's
not for a state. It's for a single city. Do you have numbered estimations? Do you have an idea
how many men there were in this militia? 3,500. This beats his little 200 men excursion back in
the day when they, oh, God told me we need to go back home, actually. You should have been listening.
Now we've got like Napoleonic uniforms and field cannons and yeah, it's talking crap about the
president like almost like man, this guy is, you know, ooh. Right. So because all of these,
this is a cascading effect, right? And in my podcast series, I called this the Bennett meltdown
because so many huge scandals broke all at the same time. And this guy Bennett, who was a very,
very trusted military leader, right? He was a Brigadier Lieutenant General of the Navu Legion.
You know, he was one of the highest ranking officers. He was the mayor of the city. He was
chairman of the University of Navu. He was, you know, he held, he was the most powerful guy in
Navu and he and Joe get in a fight and they break up and people, you know, people are wondering
what the hell is going on because now Bennett's nowhere to be found in the city. Suddenly people
are whispering about letters in the Sangamo Journal that brother Bennett has been writing.
And a bunch of these scandals are all catalyzing all at the same time. And then, of course,
Lilburn Boggs is a huge issue, right? So Lilburn Boggs files that affidavit. And the governor of
Missouri recognizes he needs to get the governor of Illinois' help to extra night Joseph Smith
to not only answer for the charges of attempting to murder Lilburn Boggs, but also
to charge him on everything that happened during the 1838 Mormon War in Missouri
because the dude had escaped prison, right? He was still a fugitive running his own city.
Right. So, wow, I bet they saw all those papers that they signed saying, sure, yeah,
we'll sign off on this. And now they're going, oh, my gosh, why did we allow this to happen?
And they didn't even know what they were getting themselves into. They didn't even know.
Right. Right. And that's a salient point that we need to make here because there's a lot of vested
interests in all of this, right? Politicians in Illinois wanted the Mormons there because if
they could show enough favor to the Mormons, they get the Mormon voting block. Suddenly,
the biggest city of Illinois, you get all of their votes, right? That's huge. That would be
one person randomly showing up in Seattle or in the state of Washington and getting all of Seattle's
votes, right? That is huge to get the Mormon voting block on your side. So each of the politicians
were caught up in this game. And Stephen Douglas is one of the primary figures in all this.
Each of these politicians and court justices and justices of peace and all of these politicians
and powerful and wealthy people, they're basically in this game of one upsmanship trying to show
more favor to the Mormons so that they can get the Mormon voting block. And everybody wants it.
It's really dangerous because now the Mormons are controlling not just county or city politics,
but national politics. Bingo. Bingo. Yeah, they've created a monster just like Joseph did in John
Bennett. Exactly. Exactly. Gave them enough rope to hang you with. That's what happened, right?
You know, I want to pause just ever so briefly. This also reminds me what was happening in the
third and fourth century with early Christianity under Constantine. We talk about, oh, Constantine
was the first Christian emperor. He really wasn't, but he was the first one to recognize it. Oh,
look at all these guys. They're so obedient to their bishops. Let's pay attention to this
up-and-coming religious movement. I'm sorry, guys. I literally, my my sister-in-law just
brought a sandwich in and I'm like, Bennett or sandwich? I was like, but okay, can you recap
just a second? And I hate that I'm saying this because I really, I'm not even going to cut this.
I really want this. Recap what you said in the last like 45 seconds for me, if you would. I'm sorry.
Bennett got super strong and a big threat to everything. Oh, no. What are we going to do?
And all this simultaneously is going on. And Joseph Smith is potentially going to pay for
all the crimes he's ever done. And they're working on it for real. This isn't just like,
they're really like trying to legally get this guy. What happened? But what they need is some
evidence, some written evidence, perhaps, some testimonies from people. So where are they going
to get it? Bennett provided that, right? Bennett started working with, with the, okay, so rewind
a little. Governor Reynolds of Missouri signed a warrant requesting extradition from the governor
of Illinois, who was Governor Carlin. And Governor Carlin signed a warrant of arrest
for Joseph Smith as well as an extradition warrant. So Bennett begins working with the
constables, the, the sheriffs who come in from the state of Missouri cross state lines, which
there, there isn't an interstate police force at this time, right? This is an extremely rare case
where somebody would cross state lines and then they would have to get the governors of those
states to agree to extradite somebody because states are basically their own little pocket
governments, right? It's, it's much more open now than it was back then. But this is the early
19th century, right? They were still experimenting with the division of powers, the differences in
governments of states and so on and so forth. So Governor Reynolds gets Governor Carlin's help,
and both of them sign all the documentation necessary to arrest Joseph Smith in the state of
Illinois, bring him across the state line into Missouri and to face charges for the assassination
of Governor Lilburn Boggs, attempt, assassination, attempt. I need to say that because the guy survived,
which was really, really bad for Joe. You install odds. Yeah. But yes, absolutely. Yeah.
Do they actually extradite him? Do they actually get him out of state? So the arrest warrant was
for Joseph Smith and for Porter Rockwell, right? Because the, the affidavit claimed that Porter
Rockwell was the person who had pulled the trigger and that Joseph Smith was accessory before the
fact, right? It was conspiracy charge, basically. So the constables come into Nauvoo and they arrest
Joseph Smith and Porter Rockwell. And Joseph says, here is my writ of habeas corpus. We will
have this hearing in the Nauvoo municipal court and you will release me on this writ of habeas
corpus. The constables don't know what to do because they're there on special order from
governors of two states, right? They have special permissions to cross state lines to get a fugitive
and to bring him back across state lines. This, they are exercising a rare, you know, some rare
provisions in various state governments, in constitutions to get ahold of this criminal kingpin.
And now he's telling them that, no, I'm going to hold this hearing in my own city court.
And we're, we're going to see if your, your accusations have any merit.
And they said, well, okay, that's unfortunate. But what we can do right now is put you into the
custody of the Nauvoo city constable, who was, I think, John P. Green at this time.
And we will go and get proper documentation, an updated version, a more, more bulletproof
extradition warrant from the governor, Governor Carlin in Springfield. And we'll be back in a
couple of days with that document. Now, don't you go nowhere. Don't you go anywhere.
Just the fact that these guys rode into town to arrest him in the middle of his own town,
that, that takes some guts right there. Well, that's the thing too, because what was their
other option? Yeah, they didn't have another option. They would not leave the city alive.
Yeah, yeah. So these are the guys at the beginning of the show. When you showed him standing up there
with his sword and the two, the two guys that are in the midst of this huge legion. You've got
the picture. I'll pull it up right now. Keep describing them. You should. Yeah. And, and so
you got to imagine this guy is like a tyrannical, everybody listening to him, Napoleon figure.
I mean, his, he's the voice of God. And here these two, three guys have the balls to sit in
the middle of this crowd and go, Hey, when you're done talking, I need to talk to you because I'm
going to arrest you with all these men around who are thinking, we will try and take my profit and
we're willing to do whatever it takes. The balls on these guys just blows my mind that they put
in the town would just, you know, a handful. Either they had balls or they just, they either had
balls or they were oblivious, David, because they may not have realized the danger that they were
involved in. No, they were not oblivious, right? So these, these, this is only like three years
after the Missouri Mormon war. These guys were people who were caught up in the Missouri Mormon
war, right? Like these are people who are involved in the fight, right? They're very aware of who
they're dealing with. So before you tell us what happens to Joe, because he always does some crazy
shit. Okay. Porter Rockwell, man. What are they doing with him? I mean, they're looking for this
guy too, right? Right. So did they find them? So these, they're both arrested and they are
transferred to the custody of the novel constable and they hold their sham municipal court trial
in Grant Joe's raid of habeas corpus. And Joe then decides there's a couple points of order
that he needs to take care of, one of which is immediately go into hiding and he goes into hiding,
right? Smart. I'll be right back. I just need to get a few things. Yeah. And there's this hilarious
scene too. When those sheriffs constables come back into Navu looking for Joe and Porter Rockwell,
they're like, where is he? They approached the constable and he's like, well, he was released
on a raid of habeas corpus and the guys are like, no, we got the docs right here. No, he's coming
with us. And they show up at the Navu match or at the Navu homestead trying to find Joe and Emma
basically stalled them at the door long enough for Joe to slip out the back window and slide
through a cornfield and go hide in a shack. So Emma, like Emma really in many ways is a perfect
mafia wife too, because she's able to help him and, you know, fulfill the role that she needs to
to keep her husband out of handcuffs. And this goes right into your theory, Bryce, that like,
there's no, she's in on it. She has, she's getting something out of all of this. So
whatever that is, I mean, any, either that or she's that abused as a wife. And I doubt that's
the case. Well, it's a little a column A and B, right? So she, this is something that she never
would have done of her own volition. But she was, she found herself in a circumstance that
Joseph Smith had crafted over years that she really didn't have any other options than to help him.
And, and like, you wonder, where does that mentality end? Where, where, what is the cutoff
point? Where what step is too far for a mafia wife to continue to look the other way or to
continue to help their husband? And those are, those are much bigger questions, I think.
Okay, so he escapes, these guys go back home and they say, you know what,
he's hiding, they know this dude is, he's on the run. Yeah. Yeah. And he spends basically the last
six months of 1842 in hiding. He, he's bouncing around various farms and, and homes of other
people and of members, picking up a couple new wives on the way to a lot. Actually, 1842 was his
most active year picking up wives, picking up a whole lot of wives. There's, there's just, there's
a lot going on with, with Joe in hiding, because he's still trying to run his government. But he
also prioritizes passing a new law. And this, this new law, I'm trying to paraphrase trying to remember
it word for word, but I can't remember the exact title of it. But it was like, an extra special
case on behalf of President Joseph Smith, which expanded the powers of rits of habeas corpus in
the city of Navu, which basically said that if anybody from anywhere comes into Navu with an
attempt to arrest Joseph Smith or anybody in the city of Navu, then a hearing of habeas corpus will
be held in the city of Navu that will take precedent over any court hearing that, that they
are trying to bring or extradite that person too. Further, if the person is found to have arrested
that Navu citizen under false pretenses or not without the proper documentation, and remember,
this is Joe's court, he determines what's proper documentation, then they will be arrested. So it
granted the Navu City Constable power to arrest anybody who was trying to arrest Joseph Smith.
It's fun to make your own country. Yeah. Wow. These are component pieces. All of these are
ingredients you need to make your own sovereign government, your own sovereign theocracy. That's
what Joe was doing, right? Let me ask you this. This is important. This takes us back to the very
first episode, and this is why I love what you're doing. He has, at this time, he has treasonous
papers that are documented. There's, there's stuff that he has written right now that if the government
found, it's over. His like they, the whole war is happening. They're coming in and they don't care
what you say. It's going to stop him from doing what he's doing. If I'm not mistaken. Not quite
yet. Okay. Because the scene of that. Yeah. The scene from that portrait is still two years in the
future. Oh, same guys. That's still two years in the future. Different guys. That's different guys.
And that scene is iconic. Yeah. That's not what's going on right now. This is a precursor to that.
But what is captured there with those constables on the horses trying to like, Hey, you know,
there's a crowd seeing Joseph Smith speaking and the customer was like, Hey, we got to talk to you.
That was still very much what happened with these constables arresting Joe in, in 1842.
Joe felt like he could retain control of his city, but he had to remain in the city while
he was in hiding. And he was fairly confident that the Novel Legion could protect him. But
Porter Rockwell didn't have the same confidence or Joseph Smith thought that it'd be better if
Porter Rockwell GTF owed and Rockwell fled to Indiana. He fled across another state line
to get even further away from Missouri. And he remained there until I want to say
was that until time for the migration to Utah, I thought no, no, no, I believe he was there until
I believe it's October of 1842, October or November of 18, certainly out of the picture at
this juncture, he's he's out for the most of the remainder of 1842. Of course, when yeah,
actually, I'm getting him is up to just realize, Oh, wait, no, he does come up. He does. Yeah.
No, no, he comes back. He comes back. I just realized, Oh, yeah, he does come back. Yeah,
he comes back. So yeah, so Porter Rockwell flees Illinois altogether. And he is nowhere to be
found. No, not known nothing. Nobody knows where he is. He ends up dictating a letter that is sent
to Joseph Smith. Basically like, Hey, what can you do for me? Help me out, brother. And I don't
believe that there was ever a response to that letter or if there was, it was never recorded.
Yeah, so Rockwell is all alone. And he is away from his people. He works, I believe, as a horse
border or something to that effect, or maybe taking care of tack, I'm not sure, something with horses,
because that's what he was always doing. And yeah, and he spends out the most of 18 the rest of 1842
in Indiana. And Joe continues to run his church, he continues to get more wives, all in hiding
right now. He's not sure when he's, you know, gonna actually get popped for all of this. But
some good news comes Joe's way because it's an election year. And this election year means
that Governor Carlin is no longer going to be governor of Illinois. Instead, we get Governor
Thomas Ford. Now, in all of this, this is actually pretty interesting, because I'm not sure how to
interpret these pieces of evidence, but I think it can be read a few ways. Governor Carlin begins
sending letters back and forth to various people in Navu, trying to get his, get them to comply
with his extradition warrant, so that he can get these fugitives out of his state and to Missouri,
where they can face prosecution, right? Well, Governor Carlin ends up sending and receiving
and sharing a letter exchanges with Emma, Joe's wife. While Joe is in hiding, right? Governor
Carlin basically is telling the members, the Mormons that your profit is a fugitive, that we
need to have him heard in the state of Missouri, and Emma sends a letter to him and basically makes
a legal argument to the governor that this is infringing on his rights as an American citizen,
that you can't do this, you can't extradite him, that this is not the, that we are not responsible
for what happened in Missouri. We're not responsible for the assassination of Governor Boggs. At this
time as well, Joe was able to collect like some thousand affidavits of people saying that he was
nowhere near Missouri, and he couldn't have possibly been responsible for assassinating
Wilburne Boggs. So the propaganda machine is constantly churning while Joe is in hiding.
Him and his boys are meeting in these secret places, and he's trying to get as much control over
his people while all these scandals are breaking, because this is all part of the bend and meltdown,
right? He's trying to retain control while being a silent partner in the church. He's not able to
speak publicly, which if Joe can't preach to his people, he's neutered. He's not making that
personal connection to his charisma that he needs to retain for his people to see him as the one true
prophet. He can feel a lot of things are slipping, right? There's also infighting going on, right?
This is another one of those junctures.
Go ahead, yeah.
I was just going to say this is one of those junctures where
Mormonism could have just gone away in a poof, you know, yet again.
Yeah, so like one of these, for example, Orson Pratt comes back from his mission in Europe in like
April of 1842, and he finds out that Sarah Pratt is caught up in all of this public controversy.
His wife is caught up in the controversy with John Bennett and Joseph Smith and finds out that Sarah
Pratt has probably been like traded around with these guys or like she was coerced or like forced
or into these situations. And now she, it's her name on everybody's lips. So it's a whispered for
evil in the city of Nauvoo. She's the subject of all the rumors, and Orson Pratt goes and tries to
kill himself, right? Like there's there's dissent among the ranks of the leadership too, and who
is allowed to know about polygamy, who is suffering the effects of polygamy while not knowing about
it being a doctrine. There's there's a lot of controversy among the leadership as well.
Exactly. It's huge secret civil war going on amongst the leadership under, you know, behind the scenes,
behind the curtains, it's ripping the leadership apart.
There's a civil war taking place within, even though it's a cold civil war.
And yeah, secret civil war. And then there's some real stuff brewing that's about to happen.
And I don't even know what to say. What's about to happen? I think we need to put a needle in it.
We are wrapped up here in the hour. Give us a closing statement, maybe, and get us cliffhanged
for the next episode, Bryce. I want to touch on one more thing before
our cliffhanging, because at this time, right, Joe's also acquiring more wives.
And we see a quintessential example of how these things played out.
And one of these people that he wanted was a teenager named Sarah Ann Whitney, who he ended
up marrying. And Sarah's parents were old friends of Joseph and Emma. In fact, the first people that
Joe and Emma lived with when they arrived in Kirland. You remember that rich guy,
Neal K. Whitney, that Joseph walked up to and shook his hand and said,
you have prayed me here. Now, what do you want of me? And the guy's like, you have the advantage
of me. Who are you? And Joe says, I'm the prophet of God. That wealthy guy, Neal K. Whitney,
his wife, Elizabeth Ann Whitney, had a teenage daughter named Sarah Ann Whitney.
And Joe had targeted her at that time. She was, I want to say, she was like nine or 10 years old
at that time. Now, 12 years later, I guess she's not much of a teenager anymore. He sends a letter
to the Whitney's. And this is another one of Joe's infamous polygamy letters. Dear and beloved
brother Neal K. Whitney and sister Elizabeth Ann Whitney and etc. Sarah Ann Whitney. I take
this opportunity to communicate some of my feelings privately at this time, which I want you three
eternally to keep in your own bosoms. For my feelings are so strong for you since what has
passed lately between us that the time of my absence from you seems so long and dreary. All
right. He's in hiding writing this, right? So he goes on to very, very flowery and beautiful
language. This is one of the very few letters that we have in actually Joseph's handwriting,
not written by a scribe, which those letters are very few and far between. He says,
okay, come and see me. Come and see me in the four part of the night. Let brother Whitney come
a little ahead and knock at the southeast corner of the house at the window. It is next to the
cornfield. I have a room entirely by myself. The whole matter can be attended to with the most
perfect safety. I know it is the will of God that you should comfort me now in this time of affliction
or not at all. Now is the time or never. But I have no need of saying any such thing to you for
I know the goodness of your hearts, right? This is a letter that he's proposing to their daughter,
right? In your hearts and that you will do the will of the Lord when it is made known to you.
The only thing to be careful of is to find out when Emma comes, then you cannot be safe. But
when she is not here, there is the most perfect safety. Yeah, only be careful to escape observation
as much as possible. So Joe sends this letter to the witness, one of which is, you know,
soon to be wife of his and says, come see me in my little shack. I have a place entirely to
myself. I'm in hiding. I'm lonely. Come comfort me. It's the will of the Lord that you come and
comfort me. We can do this all in perfect safety. And as long as Emma is in here, everything's going
to be fine. Wow. What a bastard. There are a couple ways to interpret that, right? It could be
that he's like, hey, don't let my wife see you showing up. That's not going to be good for anybody.
It could also be that Joe knew that Emma was being tailed by the sheriffs trying to find him.
So wherever Emma was, those sheriffs would be because they knew if they tailed Emma long enough,
she would reveal where her husband's location is. So it could be that he's saying as long as Emma is
in here, the constables won't show up behind you. They're not going to trail you to me. So once again,
it's one of those documents that there are a few ways to interpret the evidence, and Emma's role
in all of this is definitely up for question. So they could both be happening at the same time,
and they don't exclude each other either. Exactly. Exactly. So in all of this,
to the point that he could say, oh, no, no, I didn't mean that. I meant this. You got that from
this. Oh, no, no, no. There's always plausible deniability in all of it, right? Paul does the
same thing in his letter to Philemon, by the way. But anyway, that's a whole different story.
So to cliffhanger us, in all of this, the heat cooled down. By September, October, 1842,
the sheriffs are no longer staying in town. Joe gives a couple of sermons kind of trepidatiously,
and they don't actually, they don't end up arresting him immediately after.
Thomas Sharpen, his Warsaw signal is like, he's there. He's in Nauvoo. Come arrest him. Come get
him. And the constables are like, well, it doesn't, it doesn't matter anymore, because the new
governor just got elected, and he's not going to honor the extradition warrant from the old
governor. There's nothing we can do. Emma is sharing letters back and forth with the governor.
Emma and her two counselors in the Relief Society presidency, one of which is Joe's wife,
one of which is the mother of Joe's, another of Joe's wife.
They go and pay Governor Carlin a personal visit. And we don't know what happened,
but they went and met personally with him. And that's that's Emma, Eliza Snow, and I think Elizabeth
Ann Whitney, who make that visit. Love to have been a fly in that wall. Yeah, I would love to
hear what was exchanged or see what sort of transaction transpired there. But in all of this,
they feel like the heat is cooled down and Joe makes a couple of statements and he goes up and
preaches a couple of times and he's okay. So eventually Porter Rockwell says, all right,
I'm coming back to Nauvoo. And I believe this happens in November. He hops on a ferry to cross
cross the river, I believe, to get into the state of Illinois. And a couple of guys ask him,
are you Porter Rockwell? And he stupidly answers yes. And they knock him down and tie him up.
They're bounty hunters and they just got their bounty. Oh my gosh. Poking that one right there,
dude. Holy moly. Okay. Ladies and gentlemen, get ready, get ready. It's only going to get worse
and better and worse and better and worse and better and worse. And stay tuned for the next
episode. We love you. Thank you so much. Write down below what your comments are on this episode.
Go check out their Patreon. You guys could check out ours as well. Like this, share this, get this
out there. You might know an ex Mormon or so. I don't know how many Mormons might pay attention,
but it'd be pretty cool to get their attention as well. HBO, A&E, you name it, Netflix.
On. Come on. It's too good. This is really, really good. And we don't have this. It's not
documented like this. There's no, you know, here's the real truth, nothing but a truth type of show.
And man, this would take to the next level, this kind of material. So with that being said,
if you've already forgotten, don't we are MythVision.
