We are live, myth vision podcast.
Ladies and gentlemen, welcome back.
Hit the like button.
I hope you'll stay tuned as many people in the online arena
that have engaged in apologetics, counter apologetics
like I've done have come across presuppositionalists
in various forms.
And to me, it feels that much of the argumentation
is to undermine anything and everything you ever bring up.
It doesn't matter how much empirical data you show
of contradictory material, how human the Bible is,
how flawed the deity of the Bible is,
it doesn't matter what you do
with any case of empirical data, observation, anything.
What I find is that they go, explain reason and logic.
Sorry, I got a little out of here.
Yeah.
So they'll start with reason and logic
and you're undermining your own thing
to assume you can even make a case that makes sense
to show the flaws and problems.
So it's this weird mental gymnastic game
that sounds a bit circular.
And so I said, look, I'm not a philosopher.
I was a presuppositionalist as a Christian.
What that entailed as a Protestant
was that the word of God was where truth came from.
And you start with that.
You don't challenge it.
It's not filled with contradiction.
It is true.
And this is the revelation of God.
And from there, I built my worldview.
So I was that kind of presuppositionalist
without being aware of philosophy,
without knowing all the lingo,
without the script that you find presuppositionalist online.
And I guess I was a soft presupp in the sense
that I held to that,
but I would dabble in empirical argumentation.
Robbie Zacharias, William Lane Craig,
several other apologists were very influential to me.
But today I'm bringing on a professional philosopher.
Dr. Alex Malpass will be joining us
to discuss presuppositional apologetics.
Maybe we'll dabble into some of the actual philosophy
behind this whole presuppositional idea.
Why is this thing online and on and on?
And with that being said,
let's go ahead and introduce our guest.
Sorry for the long-winded intro, Alex.
Welcome.
Dr. Malpass.
Hi.
I guess I don't know if I'm a professional philosopher or not.
I mean, it ends what you mean, right?
I don't have an academic position at a university.
So if that's the criteria, then technically that's wrong, right?
I'm not an academic in that sense,
but I have a PhD in philosophy
and publish still as frequently as I can in the field.
So it depends what you mean, doesn't it?
And it's still only give people the wrong impression
by that.
Well, you've done quite a bit of work.
You have your PhD in the field of philosophy.
You are well aware and acquainted with philosophical ideas
that are taken serious in the field.
And then you're also somebody who I've noticed has engaged
with the non-academic arena online
pertaining to what they would consider themselves philosophers
in some way, and maybe they are in some way,
but they're not taken serious, as you've pointed out to me,
in like actual academia pertaining to philosophical thought.
So I don't want to coercively force the path
that we need to go down with this particular thing
because you're way better acquainted
not only with the actual philosophy,
which I'm ignorant of ultimately,
I can navigate it with you, I can follow you,
I can track your argumentation.
I just don't speak philosophy language.
If you talk history, you talk mythology,
you talk literature, physical, empirical,
observational, material things,
I'm there. Mental masturbation is what I call a lot of philosophy.
And I don't mean it in a derogatory sense, but sometimes I do
because I think that a lot of them are like,
look over here.
And it's like, you haven't done anything.
Well, what are your words doing
but making everyone think you're smarter than what you are
by playing word games and not dealing with the data?
You probably brought some things, some ideas,
and we're going to have an open dialogue.
So wherever you want to start, let's begin.
OK, well, I mean, I think the reason that you reached out to me
in the first place was, I'm going to turn the dings off on this thing.
Here we go.
So I think the reason you reached out to me in the first place
was because you had this run-in on a pre-soap.
Was it this call or something where you were...
And YouTube, guys.
YouTube.
Yeah.
And then you got dog piled a little bit.
And, yeah.
And so I consider you to be a survivor in that sense.
So I feel your pain.
It's very difficult, I think, if you get dog piled by a bunch of people
who pull out the lingo and they are super uncharitable
and interrupt you continuously and whatever.
So I'm happy to help give a counterpoint to that, I guess.
I like to think of myself as being quite charitable
and reasonable and stuff.
So hopefully there'll be a counterpoint in an attitudinal sense
as well as specifically the words.
So I listened to it again today, just a little while back.
And it was a classic case of just...
Do we want to post a link to it?
I don't know if you want to promote that channel.
I don't mind.
People can say it's really fine, anyway.
Yeah, they can find it.
So it's on Made by Jim Bob's channel.
The full thing, and it was like four hours.
And like I expressed, look, I went into this good faith dialogue
interested in actually getting to hear a conversation
between non-Christians and Christians.
And you could see some of the games I felt were games.
Like, do you believe in miracles?
They asked me.
And I was like, no, you know, I don't believe in miracles.
And they were like, well, here it is.
Here it is.
So it was some...
Do you have a section you want me to play,
or do you want me to just show the screen?
No, not really.
So it was like this word game of like...
Explain the law.
I can't even remember.
It was like the laws of nature or some particular thing.
Like explain it.
It was a presuppositional kind of gotcha thing.
And if you can't explain that using your rationale,
then it's just asserted you have something metaphysical
that is miraculous or something to this effect.
And I was like, I don't get how that's a miracle
or how you've now made me believe in miracles.
It's like word games to make you convinced.
And while I don't have my whole,
what they would consider worldview figured out,
it changes as I learn, as I continue to go
in terms of understanding.
I don't know the answer.
You know, like why is there something rather than nothing?
I just assume brute fact.
I don't know.
I don't pretend.
And something about the teleological
or that these transcendental arguments
are like they want certainty.
They need confidence and certainty.
Instead of being totally open to, if there was a God,
then there might be a God.
I'm not convinced.
I'm not persuaded.
I'm, you know, anyway, sorry.
So maybe we start at the beginning
and I was like, what are we talking about?
Right?
Cause not everyone is familiar with it
and some people may have bumped into it without
really getting what's going on.
So I mean, I don't want to be, you know,
I don't want to go back too far,
but let's just say a few words about like,
what do we mean by apologetics in general
to begin with, right?
A topic the viewers of your channel are surely familiar with,
but you know, it's, what's the point of apologetics?
Why is it different to philosophy?
Say one of the things that's different about it
might involve philosophical concepts
and it seems to type of presenting arguments
or type of thing.
But there's a big difference in the sense that like,
apologetics is primarily supposed to be able
to take a defense of the faith.
Where the classic way people explain what apologetics is.
So it's very much arguing for a specific position.
So it's not a disinterested engagement
with evidence or arguments.
It's an interested engagement with evidence known
as you're trying to, you know,
back up a certain position, right?
That's what apologetics is.
So you could be an apologist for, you know, veganism
or the conservative politics or Christianity
or atheism and you can be an apologist for anything.
But in particular, it means you've got a position,
you're defending that position.
And in particular, when it comes to Christian apologetics,
often it means you're trying to convert the other person
to your position, your winning souls for Jesus or whatever.
So it's a bit like, though,
potentially it's a somewhat uncharitable,
but it's a bit like being a car salesman.
I think as you've got an objective,
you're trying to get the guy to agree with you
so that you don't pay part with your money,
with their money and you make a sale or whatever.
So it's not just a simple curious person engaging
with something and just sort of figuring it out
for themselves, right?
And if you are a curious person,
open to ideas and thinking about stuff,
then your experience of bumping into an apologist can be.
A bit like your experience of wandering into a second hand
car dealership and being accosted by a salesman, right?
Because he's gonna start trying to talk to you
and get you to do the thing that pays their wages
or something.
So that's, in a general sense, that's what apologetics is.
And it's, I guess I said,
it's not necessarily a religious idea, but it often is.
And I think we zoom in a little bit more
on this kind of Christian apologetics.
There's a sort of taxonomy that you'll hear
presupposition lists themselves give
about how they distinguish themselves
from the rest of the field, right?
Which is that often you've got evidential apologetics.
So typically you'll find people talking about,
the complexity of biological systems
or the fine-tuning of the universe or whatever,
stuff like that where they really are digging
into scientific stuff and using that to make that case.
So it's very much about the evidence.
And then often you get, let's say,
something like a priori apologetics
where this is abstract arguments,
things like the ontological argument.
God, by definition, a perfect being
perfect being must exist, that type of thing, right?
In both cases, what they're doing is presenting arguments.
Maybe they're deductive arguments
or inductive arguments or whatever,
but they are playing the game of argument giving
and assuming that when you're giving an argument,
you try and present premises that you're interlocutive
probably agrees with in order to tease out consequences
that they should also accept, right?
So there's this kind of central idea
that there's some common ground somewhere.
And if you start there,
you lead them towards where you want them to go
from the position that they agree with.
The presupposition list sort of just
doesn't want to be in either of those camps.
They don't want to give evidence, right?
And often this is by a graphical description
of some people who become presuppositionists
is that they get kind of fed up
with discussing the evidence.
They want to talk about something,
they want to shortcut straight to where
the interesting stuff happens,
which means where they win, right?
And then I want to talk about the evidence.
And I think there's very much what happened to you
because you wanted to, at least a little bit of the debate
I saw, you were talking about, you know,
textual this and historical that and stuff.
And that's all about fine evaluations of the evidence
and whatnot.
And I felt like at least in the bit that I watched,
a couple of guys rushed you and they were basically like,
yeah, I forget all that evidence stuff.
How do you account for reason or something?
If you can't explain this, screw everything you have to say.
And I told you just to make it, it's worth reading
just for fun for our audience, if you don't mind.
My buddy, Dr. Richard C. Miller,
who is acquainted with philosophical thought,
he's way better acquainted than I am, of course,
pertaining to this.
And he saw the entire exchange, by the way,
in the private chat, I was messaging them about two hours
in, I'm hungry, dinner's ready, I need to go.
Usually when you're on a channel,
someone will find a way to pivot that and go,
thanks for your time, I appreciate it, time to go.
We went another two hours, I'm trying not to bounce
and just leave because I'm the guest.
But it went for another two hours and by then I'm irritated.
I'm irritable, I'm at this point, I'm like ready to go.
So he comments, I guess someone was like, you got smashed,
you know, Derek had no answer for justifying all,
you know, actual reason and actual logic
without having that ultimate origin of God.
That's pretty much the point.
So then Richard Miller wrote,
I didn't see that happen at all.
I saw a guy who took two night classes
at a no-name college in epistemology,
abusing a more learned and accomplished guest
who happened not to have taken any courses in epistemology.
Derek has no need to defend or even articulate epistemic
warrants for secular research and scholarship,
the stupidity, of course, this is Jay Dyer
that he's remarking on.
Instead of showering Derek with respect
or hosting a successful show
that brings on many of the top living accommodations
as guest sharing their research,
he plays this clown game with epistemology.
It's like, this is the point,
this is what I liked that I thought was interesting.
And this is the whole,
I even was reading something about Vantil
that kind of hints at this,
that these reform type of epistemologists slash
pre-sub guys that are doing this,
he's like, it's like asking the next tour day force,
sorry, tour day France cyclist winner
to explain and to rationalize the engineering physics
of his bicycle or somehow he should be shamed
and given no trophy, extremely stupid and disgraceful.
So I was reading a paper that I think, who wrote this?
You probably read it, Vantil versus Stroud.
It was, it's really, I think it's well-written.
The author is probably a bunch of this Belint Bekefi.
Anyway, I thought it was a really well-written,
helped me get acquainted more with like Vantil
and some of these ideas that are being postulated.
And it's like, they have this thing that's like,
you undermine anything that the skeptic says
and in doing so, even if the skeptic makes sense,
you still win.
Even if I could show you the Bible school of contradictions,
God is literally a man-made abstract idea
of the ancient mind of these people
from a particular tribe at a region in the world
in which superstition runs rampant, et cetera, et cetera.
Does not matter because it made sense.
If it simply makes sense that we have logic
and God on our side and you can't prove how logic be,
it's so insane.
I've never thought that it would be that dumb
that you can prove to me something
with really good confidence based on empirical data
and then turn around and reverse it go, cool,
we still win because everything you said made sense.
And if you can't explain where making sense comes from,
we can't, God, it's insane.
I've never heard anything like this on this level.
Even when I was a priest up as a Christian,
I didn't know it went this deep.
So it's basically like the other two,
like the evidentialist and the,
I actually don't even know what the technical term is,
a priorist or whatever,
the person who's giving his abstract argument.
Both of those are, as I said,
playing by some kind of like normal common rules
of engagement where you assume common ground
and you try and like, you know,
move the person gently from their position towards yours
or something.
The presuppositionalist has a kind of much more radical take
on all of this, right?
So they're generally going to just go straight to
where they think it's a much more profound level of analysis
where it's like, you know, you might have like,
you know, you might have proved, you know,
using an argument that such and such is true,
but there couldn't be arguments unless God existed, right?
And so, and then you just like, okay,
so we can't assume common ground on the basis of like logic
just being something that we share that's like not up for,
that's not one of the things that's in dispute between us.
But now all of a sudden it is, and not only that,
but there's this very strong claim,
the preposterously strong claim, if you ask me that,
unless like the triune God of Christianity,
whatever their version of Christianity is existed,
then logic and reasoning would be impossible.
And then that's where it kind of just undermines your,
most people's like, you know, space in which they operate
when they're talking to people about religion,
loads of stuff is taken for granted.
These guys are trying to call into question things
that normally you don't think about.
So for instance, most people have never considered
what the metaphysics of logic is
or metaphysics of mathematics or something,
to the theory of, right, why would most people do that?
Because it's got nothing to do with really,
unless we're very strange.
This is the sort of question
that you don't dwell on very much, right?
You might occasionally go, I wonder what numbers are,
and then just move on to like what you're having for dinner
is something more important than that.
So anyway, typically speaking,
I mean, we're talking street level interactions here.
Typically, it's not particularly profound.
It's a kind of gotcha thing.
It's a thing where like, there are no,
I've never encountered a female presupposition list.
Grace is a man thing, right?
So a thing that men do to try and look like the big man
to, you know, beat up the other guy.
Like it's verbal combat or whatever.
And, you know, it's tempting to say this is, you know,
doesn't really matter.
It's just a kind of adolescent guy thing that people do.
There is some academics who, you know,
found until was a theologian, a noteworthy theologian.
He has a bunch of like inheritance
that's come down to us in the form of other people
that he influenced, you know, Greg Banson,
I don't know, John Frame, Rush Dooney, I don't know.
There's some other people, right?
It probably has a reasonably large influence
in certain bits of American reformed theology stuff.
You probably encounter much more than I do
in a cultural sense, right?
But yeah, I mean, we can talk about the intellectual origins
of where it came from and what the philosophical ideas
that it's in the neighborhood of are.
If you want to have an intellectual conversation
about those types of things or we can have fun talking
about the kind of gotcha tactics that YouTube people use
or whatever you like, really.
Yeah, I figure we'll freestyle it.
Of course, I want to keep it in the fun range.
We were talking about whether or not we wanted this
to be academic as much or fun.
And I figure it might be interesting to note some
along the way you might say, hey, pin this.
This is an academic idea that is taken serious
by pre-sups if you want.
But I kind of wanted to keep it in the online area
because I kind of want this to be a go-to video
for those who encounter this kind of stuff
that word game combat that you've seen
and oftentimes by people who,
if they talked like that on a regular basis,
I honestly would not know who they are in this world.
I would have no interest in befriending them
or even getting to know who these people are.
If that's how they were in real life,
I feel bad for the partners
because I can't imagine the arguments they go through
if things go south because that's,
it just makes me think, oh my gosh.
So I think that we can stay in the online realm
if that's okay with you.
One of the interesting things I did notice too
that we're back to kind of serious theologian van Til
where the notion of presuppositionalism
was kind of an argument that's kind of coupled
with the tulip concept in Calvinism
because the human in their view is completely a wretch
and completely incapable of divine revelation from God,
unless God births the spirit in them,
making them born again,
making them a living creature of God,
and then they're capable of grasping.
So they think it's futile to make evidentialist arguments
with skeptics and non-believers
due to their presuppositional idea
that humans are incapable of having
any influential mind changing
without the spirit involving it.
And so that's an interesting thing.
These other guys that I've encountered online
take an angle where they go,
they laugh at presupps that are not Orthodox Christians.
And they like literally say, we don't care,
you can mock them, we think they're as wrong
as can all get out and stuff.
It's really interesting.
You said, have you seen that?
Yeah, I mean, I think that broadly speaking,
presuppositionalism really has nothing to do
with the details of Christianity whatsoever, right?
It's always, so it's like top heavy presupp.
It's all about like attacking your view
and hardly ever really about defending their own view, right?
So the difference between, you know,
Orthodox Christianity, Reformed Christianity
just doesn't come into it
because it doesn't spend any time
really spelling out any of those distinctions at all.
And when they do they're not being presupps anymore.
They're talking about, well, it says this in the Bible,
we've got this church father, blah, blah, blah.
They're into, what's the word,
interdisciplinary discussions with one another.
They're not presupps.
Presupp is a technique designed explicitly.
You know, I think it's a quote from Banson
to shut the mouth of the unbeliever, right?
That's what this is about.
It's not supposed to be like, you know,
like I said, it's not a disinterested philosophical engagement.
This is an interested philosophical engagement
as a particular angle in mind.
And I've often thought really,
because I guess it shuts the mouth of the unbeliever
in a certain sense, but actually,
I think probably what it's trying to do
is to reassure the minds of the possibly wavering people
in the congregation, right?
That's actually what's going on here.
It's not converting people to Jesus
because it never converts anybody to anything.
Yeah, maybe it shuts them up when they're talking about it,
but really what's going on is the audience member
who's watching their champion
look like a champion in front of the unbeliever.
And it makes them feel better about them
as a result of that,
makes them feel more comfortable
in their religious perspective.
So-
That debate you sent me of Banson and Stein,
one of the top comments that registered was,
thank you, I now have confidence.
Like, it literally was reassuring that person
based on this debate, which ended badly for Stein.
He didn't look as good rhetorically in this debate.
I got crushed 100%
He got crushed rhetorically,
but see how it's rhetorical.
And this is why engaging in debates for me,
I don't personally enjoy me being involved.
I'm not interested in doing it because of this.
But yeah, so you're saying that's where it popularized
this online apologetics?
Oh, 100%.
Yeah, it seems to me that Stein bounce and debate,
which I think is in the 80s, maybe early 90s,
but it's around that time period.
And it's before, you know, the internet really,
you know, there's no social media,
there's no, there weren't live streaming this.
It's just a college debate that was recorded
on like a tape recorder or whatever.
But that has become an infamous debate
because it's where, I mean, Stein is like a nobody really.
I mean, probably you've never heard of Gordon Stein
before you listen to that video,
but he's just a generic kind of, I think he's a biologist.
And so it's a bit like a Richard Dawkins kind of dude
who's going around to college campuses
and debating people on evolution and stuff like this.
And I just think he wasn't prepared.
He didn't know about the transcendental argument,
transcendental approach, whatever the pre-sub stuff.
And Banson, who was, yeah, has a PhD
from a reputable American university in California.
I don't think it's Berkeley, but whatever.
He has a decent credentials as a philosopher,
but also has a master's degree in theology
and I think by Vantil, Vantil is like supervisor or whatever.
So he's directly in this lineage.
So he's really guns blazing pre-sub guy, right?
And just asks questions about
and that Stein has no good answers to.
And they're typically things like,
I think one of the main gotcha moments is about what,
whether the laws of logic exist or something, right?
Whether it can be non-material objects and stuff like this.
And Stein's all over the place, doesn't really get it.
He's a standard atheist, materialist guy
who's really into science and not into philosophy.
So he's getting, he's getting pwned by this debate.
And I think a lot of people watch that
and maybe grew up or were teenagers or something.
And there's a good generation of people who think
that that's the defining way of doing debates
and being Christian online.
And it's an ultra strong macho way of debating.
So yeah, I think a lot of it goes back to that.
So think of your favorite internet pre-sub troll.
They probably had a big awakening moment
when they heard this and they were like,
oh, that's how I want to be online, right?
Like pawning the atheist and making him feel
like he's an idiot or something.
Not polite, you know, the engagement,
sort of refined discussion of ideas, but like pawning somebody.
So that's where I think a lot of it goes back to.
It's kind of like contemporary history.
I think you can trace a lot of this phenomena
that we're talking about today back to,
I guess the publication of that online at some point,
like probably in the early noughties or something.
That's somewhere where I first encountered it
was probably like 2010, 2012 or something like that.
Right.
So as far as these gotcha questions,
can you explain the laws of, do you believe they exist?
These metaphysical laws of logic or laws of physics
or laws, whatever it may be,
how did you as a philosopher engage these kind of things
giving our audience some tools
so that when they encounter these word games,
I call them word games because it's gotcha questions.
How would you answer this as someone
who's thought through philosophy for quite some time?
And I know this gets into,
this is exiting the online rubbish
and asking you your own answer, so to speak,
of how you would encounter this
and how you would address it.
And it's no sweat off your back.
None of these are gotchas to you
as a philosopher who understands and knows what this is.
Yeah. Okay.
So at first of all, the reason why it's not particularly
worrying is because I think there's,
you know, there's basically a big burden shift going on
with these types of strategies, right?
And the reason for that is typically
your presuppositionist is the one
who's making an argument.
They have their own type of argument.
It's called the transcendental arguments.
It's not the kalam, it's not the design arguments,
not fine-tuning argument or something.
It's transcendental arguments,
a different type of argument.
But ultimately they're the one making that argument, right?
So there's a type of responsibility,
kind of rational obligation that's incumbent upon somebody
who's making an argument to defend premises of the argument.
If you're going to say, you know,
all fish are called Stephen, this is a fish,
therefore he's called Stephen.
What do you mean all fish are called Stephen?
What are you talking about, right?
If you've made the argument,
you have to defend that weird-looking premise.
It's not about me showing that there's some fish
that's not called Stephen, right?
It's not my problem.
You're the guy who said that they're all called Stephen.
So you have to do something about it, right?
This is obvious, straightforward, debating,
like it's not many rules, it's just like,
this is how it works.
Otherwise you're giving away advantages
and not doing it rigorously or whatever.
So the presupposition is typically in a position
of making an argument like this, right?
They're going to say something like,
unless God existed, logic would be impossible,
something like this, right?
My word is slightly differently,
but it comes to the same thing.
But logic obviously isn't impossible
because here you are using it in an argument.
So that must mean that God exists, right?
That's the basic structure of the argument.
If you're engaged in a discussion like that,
they're making that claim,
and there's always going to be one very implausible claim,
which is this idea of, unless God existed,
whatever it is, X would be impossible.
Say logic, typically, or mathematics, or reasoning,
or epistemology, whatever, something like that,
that you are not committed to the impossibility of,
at the very least,
probably committed to the possibility of.
Unless you're careful,
it's very easy to get steamrolled into thinking
that you have to explain what logic is,
or what reason is, or something like that.
But if you think about it, they're the ones who are saying,
unless God existed, this thing would be impossible.
You just want to hear what the argument is for that claim.
That's what you should do, is just sort of take a step back,
take a deep breath, just ask them,
you're making an interesting claim here.
Explain that to me, how does that work?
That's, keep the focus on them.
They're the person making the weird claim.
Don't let them say, and typically what they'll say is,
I know that claim is true,
because of the impossibility of the contrary,
which is to say, the other views are impossible.
So my view must be true by default.
And then that shifts to Burmanta.
You say, well, I don't think the other views are impossible.
What about blah, blah, blah?
And you try and give some token example
of maybe reason is this thing, or something.
And then you're defending when you should be,
they should be defending, basically.
So I guess the golden rule when discussing
this type of stuff with the presupposition
is just keeping straight where the burden
of the responsibility is.
Who's defending the argument right now?
And unless you're making an objective,
unless you've got some pet theory
about the metaphysics of logic
and you're proactively pushing that on somebody else,
it's not gonna be you defending that, right?
If you suddenly find yourself somehow defending
of you another thought about before,
that's a big red flag.
It's something's gone wrong in the discussion.
It's probably because they have done a switcheroo on you
where they start off making an argument
and some of you have to defend something,
otherwise their premise is true, right?
And that's just a kind of fallacy.
It's a kind of, well, it's a shifting
of the burden of responsibility
from where it should be to the other guy, right?
And then it's like, unless you've got some answer
to what logic is, they win.
I mean, it's crazy when you put it like this,
but that's actually what's going on.
It's just really difficult in the moment,
especially if someone's being belligerent,
not letting you finish talking down to you,
using, throwing in terms that you're not particularly
familiar with or historical references, say, I don't know,
an axomander or whatever, just randomly dropped
into a conversation for no reason.
And these types of things can just keep you off your guard
and you don't really, but often when you listen back,
you start thinking, I didn't bring that up,
he brought that up, but somehow I'm defending
some random view that I don't even
never really thought about before,
and all of a sudden I have to defend some view about it.
And I think this happened to you,
it was very natural that it would happen,
but you ended up sort of going, I guess,
all zoological, I had conventions or something,
and your man-made things, blah, blah, blah,
and then they often they have a script
because there's only that many options for a lay person
talking about this off the top of their head,
they're not gonna come up with a completely novel perspective,
so you probably landed one or two obvious buckets,
and then they've just got a script,
that's if you ever say anything,
like it's man-made or it's a convention or something,
aha, that means that you don't believe in truth
or something, and then you find yourself
getting sucked into this rabbit hole
where you don't know how you get this quick sound
or something, and all of a sudden you're stuck
in this situation, you don't know how to get out of it anymore,
but yeah, you just have to kind of take a deep breath,
take a step back, just ask them politely,
you make this claim, just explain to me the first premise,
explain to me what the premises are, first of all,
but how do you defend this claim?
There'll always be an implausible claim,
and it's typically gonna be relating the existence of God
to the intelligibility of whatever,
where they love this preconditions of intelligibility,
big long fancy sounding word,
but they're basically just saying, unless God existed,
this thing that you think is obvious would be impossible,
and you can have more or less plausible versions
of that claim, and we don't wanna get necessarily too often
to the weeds of the philosophy, but you did mention,
in that article earlier, it was Van Til versus Stroud,
so the Stroud in that is a Barry Stroud,
who is a philosopher who was writing stuff in the 60s
about transcendental arguments as they occurred
in analytic philosophies,
with not a religious context particularly,
but he has this great analysis of that,
seems to me completely killed the discussion
after that transcendental arguments
went right out of fashion after Stroud,
stomped all over them with this series of papers that he had,
and in that he explains the distinction
between the kind of modest and ambitious
transcendental argument,
and your modest transcendental argument
will say something like, unless you believe X,
then some other token thing about your mental experience
would be missing, like the intelligibility
of your conscious experience would be missing,
something like that, and a modest,
sorry, and an ambitious transcendental argument
wouldn't say, unless you believe X,
it would be, unless X is true,
so it's a distinction between an epistemological claim
and a metaphysical claim,
unless there's some belief in your head,
X would be impossible, it's the modest argument,
the ambitious argument,
unless there was some thing out there in the world,
this thing would be impossible.
So modest arguments, sometimes they're plausible,
so for instance, you might think,
unless you thought, unless you believed
that you were God's gift to women
when you went to a bar to try and hook up,
maybe you'd be less successful at doing it, right?
Maybe it's good, good strategy to believe that, right?
Maybe it's God's and benefit,
or maybe unless you believed you were happy,
happier than you actually are,
you'd be less inclined to get out of bed
and do all the commitments that you've got to do
and stuff like that.
It's almost like a pragmatic applicable belief,
even if it isn't true necessarily.
That's right, that's the whole point is,
it doesn't really matter if it's true,
it's just the connection between having the belief
and this other thing about your mental life
kind of working properly.
So often there are connections between those types of things
and it's not like it's completely implausible,
it doesn't tell you anything about what's true
in the actual world, right?
Apart from what's true about your mental life,
the difficult, the ambitious arguments are saying,
unless, say, God existed,
my experience would be completely scrambled,
massive noise or something, right?
Now, that's much more interesting claim
in a certain way, right?
But it's obviously much more ambitious,
but the problem with it,
the thing that strouts or nails really clearly is that,
you're gonna have a really hard time
getting anywhere near proving a claim like that.
It's just-
To prove anything of it, right?
Yeah, right, like why should it be?
Just in principle, why should it be the case
that unless some object external to me existed,
some part of my mental life
wouldn't be the way that it is?
I mean, just pre-reflectively,
you just might think to yourself,
maybe there's nothing outside my mind, right?
Maybe I'm just dreaming
and I'm the only thing in existence and nothing exists.
I mean, I'm not saying I think that's true,
but in some sense it's a kind of background possibility
at the edge of my experience, it could be, right?
It may be, that's what's going on.
Very difficult to rule that out,
but the point is difficulty ruling that out
is the same difficulty of establishing
that something actually exists
and it must be there in order for you
to have this mental experience.
Like it just kind of seems like
I might just have mental experience,
nothing else exists at all.
And if that's a possibility,
it's always blocking off this ambitious argument
because it needs to show that there is something out there
and if it didn't exist then your mind wouldn't exist
Just going back to the funner analogy
about going to the bar,
you have the modest one of saying,
look, in a pragmatic way, if I believe this,
I am God's gift to women at the bar
and therefore it builds my confidence.
I go and next thing you know,
I'm able to achieve my goal of picking up a beautiful girl.
That's more of a modest stance,
but would it be fair to say the aggressive one is saying,
no, I am actually the, I am God's gift to women
and this is like a certainty,
kind of getting back into that certainty that precepts like,
you're saying that's a stronger case
and how do you prove that?
What do you say?
Oh, well, I actually took a girl home
and that's evidence that-
Right, right.
How do you actually assert that that's the case?
Cause that's assuming the first premise,
like you said from the very beginning,
I'm God's gift to women.
How do you know that?
How can you even assert or make that claim even true?
So going back to logic or rationale or mathematics
or language or whatever type of avenue they wanna go down,
without God, you can't have these things.
It can't make sense.
Right, right, right, right.
So think about it in terms of like logic and God, right?
So it might be plausible.
I don't think this is true,
but it might be somewhat plausible to you to think,
unless I believed that God existed,
then my experience of logic would be different, right?
It wouldn't make any sense in some way or another.
I mean, you might just think,
unless there was this kind of transcendental lawgiver
and non-material being holding everything in place
or whatever, then it couldn't be these,
you know, non-material regularities
that the loads of logic are or something.
And you might just think,
I have to believe in the first thing
in order for the second thing to be sensible,
and maybe, okay, cool.
But the difference is like that could be true, right?
But it's still not the case that God exists,
because it might be necessary for me to believe
that God exists for logic to make sense,
and it's not true that God exists, right?
Those things are not logically incompatible with each other.
So this explains the difficulty
of the ambitious argument, right?
Because actually saying, unless God actually existed,
independently of what I believe,
logic would be incoherent to me.
That requires a completely different level of,
I mean, I just don't even,
I can't really imagine what you'd have to say
in order to establish that.
And here's where the trickery comes in,
is that skillful presuppositionalist,
I don't know if they're thinking about it at this level,
but they will flip-flop between the two, right?
So they'll say, you know,
because the modest premise, very easy to establish,
or at least relatively much easier to establish.
And then certainly if you agree to that,
and then they switch to an ambitious version
of the argument, but you didn't notice, or whatever, right?
Because it's a much higher burden of proof
that's required to justify the ambitious premise.
If you don't notice that they've done a switchery
from one to the other, you can get sort of,
maybe they don't know themselves,
they don't know this distinction,
they're not really getting,
that you have to do more than motivate the modest premise
to justify the ambitious one or something.
Either way, there's this,
to be careful to catch the difference between them.
So it's often, I think it would be helpful to say,
it was like, do you mean,
unless I believe X, then blah, blah, blah,
what do you mean unless X is actually true, then blah, blah, blah?
Right, and most of the guys online take the latter,
even if they, like you're snowing heavy outside.
Even though, is it really snowing outside?
Here's a philosophical discussion, right?
I like what you said there,
maybe they unconsciously or subconsciously
go into the harder and bounce back and forth,
maybe not aware of it,
but it sounds like the online guys are asserting the latter.
They are pushing for the, yes,
I am certain logic cannot exist without God first.
Mathematics cannot exist without God, language, rationality,
nothing would be intelligible if there wasn't God.
And that's an assertion, assumption, I would say,
that we don't even, we don't have, I would say.
And this is the interesting idea.
I guess I'd like to get your thoughts
as an expert who's thought through this,
and this is part of your worldview.
I know this is exiting a little bit of the online stuff,
but for the viewer online,
who's interested in hearing a philosopher,
who's heard these things,
who's dealt with these arguments,
how would you explain intelligibility?
I know that's a long one,
but if I can make you full screen,
and I gotta use the restroom real quick,
my bathroom's right next to me,
but this is my excuse to walk away for a second.
But if you could explain,
as someone who self-identifies as atheist, correct?
I don't wanna pigeonhole you.
Yeah, yeah, that's right.
Okay, so you don't believe there is a God.
How do you explain intelligibility,
giving you, this is on you,
the onus is on you to kind of build something
that allows the viewer to kind of see that, oh, wow.
So it isn't God must exist,
therefore there's an eligibility in the universe,
things make sense, I can add, I can calculate,
I can observe, I can test,
there seems to be some sense in this chaotic
and uniform universe,
a way in which things make sense to me,
therefore not God necessarily.
How do you make sense of it?
And I'll be right back.
Okay.
So the question is about how I explain intelligibility
but this is a subjective notion, right?
It's about like, well,
it's about how my ideas are interrelated with one another
so that the world of experience
is not a kind of booming, buzzing confusion,
just a big mess of one thing after another
without any coherence to it.
So in a sense, what we're talking about
is a kind of psychological notion.
Why is it that my experience is like hanging together
and don't just a disentangled mess?
And to some extent that's got nothing to do with philosophy
because there's going to be an explanation of that
in terms of how my brain works
and how it like unifies my experiences.
A lot of that's done unconsciously
and it's nothing to do with what I believe in.
So welcome back.
I was just saying that the notion of intelligibility,
a lot of it's done unconsciously by my brain
without me really involving myself in that in any way.
If I make, can I press while we go
to kind of get deeper into this
because it sometimes helps us to point things out.
And I'm going to put words out there
and tell me if these, maybe you go down this path.
I started with the God thing my whole life.
You didn't have the same upbringing as I did
but God is the answer to why the world makes sense
to why yada, yada, yada.
When I started de-converting in that process
I recognized evolution.
I recognized we are animals on a planet that have grown.
Our brains have developed in a way that allow us
to think on levels and rationalize in ways
that our ancestors didn't necessarily do
including language and things like this.
I look at it almost from an anthropological
scientific lens of saying these things evolved
as part of evolution.
We've come to make better sense
and to help survive better in the world through language,
all these things.
And so for me, I'm looking through a different lens
from what does the actual evidence on the ground suggest?
How can we draw these kinds of conclusions?
And so I'm looking at intelligibility
and the question I have as a non-philosopher
non-apistemologist is it is pretty ironic
that we're looking at the world and we have calculations,
we have language, it makes sense.
I'm communicating with you.
You understand what I'm saying, things like that.
But I no longer need to jump to
therefore there needs to be a God
in order to make sense of this.
It's totally detached.
That idea isn't even involved in my mind anymore
because we are trying to make sense of a world
in which we were born.
No the grass Tyson famously said once
the universe is not meant to make sense necessarily for us.
We are primates trying to survive.
So oftentimes we have irrational concepts
or irrational themes that help us to survive
that aren't necessarily true.
And I'm kind of wondering if you are getting a gist
of what I'm saying, but the world makes sense
through that naturalist lens of us surviving
and coming to these conclusions rather than asserting
some metaphysical being.
Right, I see where you're coming from.
And I think one thing to bear in mind is that
I might have a position that's quite radically different
from where you're coming from,
which may or may not be helpful
as a way of answering the question
because I guess though you're not religious anymore
I do get the feeling that you still carry
a baggage of religious way of thinking.
And I know people who have the same type of thing.
For instance, talked to Matt Diller-Hunty a bunch of times
before he used to be very religious as well.
And sometimes I think, and I've said this to him as well
that I think there's still a kind of lingering religiosity
in some of the ways he thinks about things.
It's like Nietzsche's whole point about God being dead
is that we've given up on the kind of proposition
that God exists, but we've still carry around
intellectual inheritance of all of the ideas of Christianity.
We haven't really grown out of that yet.
Now, I'm not saying you haven't grown out
of Christianity at all, obviously.
I'm not offended at all.
I do think there's definitely stuff there.
Right, but what I'm saying really is that
as I see it, the religious attitude,
the fundamentalist attitude anyway,
is that there are black and white answers
to lots of these types of questions.
And often the answers are very simplistic.
Why is there intelligibility
because of God or whatever?
It doesn't really tell you very much,
but it does put the worrying thought to bed
and allows you to carry on whatever.
So it's psychologically reassuring
to have that black and white answer.
Also, you belong to a community of people
who I guess individually will vary in different degrees,
but like on paper or believe a certain list of things,
creed that characterizes your,
maybe you're Orthodox Christian
or you're reformed or you're Catholic or whatever.
What that means, broadly speaking,
is a big list of things that you sometimes
they write them down in energy.
Just there's a list of propositions that they agree
where this is the declaration of the Westminster
Confession of Faith or whatever.
Right, right.
Are you still in there?
That's a list of propositions that, yeah, exactly.
If you're not religious,
you don't have any of that stuff.
You don't have a list of propositions
that we all believe and there's big club,
people where you're defined by some attitudes
that you all share in common.
And I think that that's quite a drastic change.
So it's not like when you're religious,
you all think you have,
or one might have a set of propositions
that they believe in,
the community around them who all verbalize
that they all believe in those things too.
It's very kind of heterogeneous
kind of way of looking at things.
Heterogeneous, homogenous, I guess, is the way of thinking.
Yeah, homogenous.
Everyone thinking the same thing.
And that then when you de-convert,
you just join the other gang
and they all think the same thing,
but now you are part of them too.
And I think some people think
that's what de-conversion is.
It's just converting to the religion of atheism.
Yeah, I hear that a lot.
But for me, I've never been a religious person
in any sense whatsoever.
Even as a small child, I think I was an atheist, right?
So I've never had a big gang of people
who wanted to actually believe the same thing as me.
And that means that I can,
I think sometimes have a common ground
with Christians on certain issues
and disagreements with atheists on certain issues
and don't really fall very neatly
into one of those camps or the other.
So in a sense, I just don't really feel any pressure
to say what my worldview is about whatever,
how I explain this, that or the other.
I don't feel they need to have a big explanation,
big coherent worldview.
Or really, I don't really know what a worldview even
is supposed to be, right?
I mean, so let me just say a few things about this.
So like, part of the script for presuppositionists
is often like, how do you account for this
on your worldview?
And this is a typical way of just gonna jog
and whatever comes up.
And it is presupposing a bunch
of what I was just describing now,
which is like, well, what is your gang of people?
What is your tribe of people
intellectually saying about this thing?
That's what it's saying.
But if you're a loner until actually speaking,
don't belong to a tribe,
doesn't really make any sense, right?
I don't have a creed.
I don't have like a priest who I go and see every week.
He tells me what we believe about this type of thing.
I'm just on my own thinking it through for myself.
So what are you asking me?
I don't want to do worldview,
but I have some things that are in the vein of this that-
Okay, no, no, no.
Feel free to de-round me at any time.
Okay, so then let's derail for one second in the vein of this
because I definitely see humans naturally,
I would say for the most part,
gravitate tribalistically to common ideas we share
and we group that way.
And this is totally normal.
We see that in nature.
And that's why I think we do that.
It's also comforting to have kind of an echo chamber
or even a support from an audience that looks like you.
So there's psychological reasons.
And there is a pragmatic reward in that kind of thing
versus trying to go upstream in every avenue in every arena.
I'm only going to go to the groups that disagree with me
versus that.
So I imagine naturally groove into common ground.
I get that and I agree.
I think there's absolutely that and there's nothing,
I think I can work on it,
but I imagine subconsciously we're naturally going to do this.
So I kind of want to move beyond that
and just simply say, I agree with you.
Ultimately, I would say the answer is,
why is there intelligibility?
I don't know.
Like I don't ultimately know.
I'm not going to pretend I have that key.
And I'm making guesses.
I'm making the best observable guesses I can based
on what the research I'm trying to do.
And I'm not doing it in this religious sense.
There is the sense, though, you want the answer, right?
So in religion, they want to give you the answer.
And that, I would say, is the carryover of religion to me.
And I don't think it's necessarily a bad thing.
I admit it's there.
For example, did Jesus really rise from the dead?
You might say, I'm not convinced
and give philosophical reasonings and things like that
and go down in arguments.
I would actually argue there are several
more plausible explanations for why it didn't happen.
He didn't actually rise from a literary standpoint,
from a comparative standpoint.
It's just this is well-established,
literary, like all across the board,
there are various forms of deities and heroes
that also accomplish much of the same deeds.
And of course, they'll throw to me,
that doesn't disprove this one.
And I go, well, you know what?
You can't falsify the others.
So they're all true.
Heracles really did ascend to Mount Olympus, I guess.
And Dionysus really did turn water into wine.
The list can go on and on.
Milk and wine, there are various different sources.
My point is, is like, I'm not saying you know.
And you may never know that answer.
Do you kind of rest on, it's a brute fact
that there just is and this is our experience
and therefore we don't need to have that answer?
How do you respond to that?
Cause I'm making the best guess by saying,
it seems to me we evolved,
if we look at our ancestral fossil record and such
and we say we evolved,
that we weren't speaking English,
you know, 300,000 years ago or a million years ago
in the canopy of the trees in Africa.
Language evolves.
At some point we end up finding ways
to somehow navigate survival on this earth.
And that's my best guess.
And I know that other people in the atheist trend
naturally gravitate toward a scientific explanation
to try and make sense.
And so I don't know if that's wrong of me in your view
or if that's just like, hey, I get it.
I get it.
You're not necessarily doing this thing
that is this religious move.
I'm not trying to.
I'm simply saying, I can't ultimately explain
why it all makes sense.
Why it is intelligible.
But what do you mean?
What's the question we're actually talking about?
What intelligibility?
Why do things make sense, right?
They're talking about what makes sense.
Why does what make sense?
Sorry.
Why are things intelligible?
How come we can calculate?
How come we can reason and you understand my language
and we have this common ground?
I'm speaking as though I'm reacting to the God
as the reason question.
So like, you see what I'm doing here.
I see what you mean.
So I think that, right.
So I think that there's just some kind of
lost in translation thing going on because
I feel like the question that you're asking is too broad
to really have any kind of meaningful answer.
I mean, like, do I believe that we evolved
over a long period?
Of course, absolutely.
They've been, our ideas weren't fully formed
throughout evolutionary history.
They are not fully formed now.
And absolutely, all of that just seems to me obvious.
I mean, people are denying that they're on a different,
they're on a different planet.
They're not engaging with evidence or whatever.
So that stuff, it's not a debate as far as I'm concerned,
but is that really the answer to the philosophical question
I think you were trying to ask?
And I wonder because I'm not really sure
what exactly it is.
So like, I think that the terminology that you're using
comes in the lineage of presuppositionalists.
They're often talking about why do you talk
about intelligibility?
Where does that word come from?
Why is that part of the script that we're going through?
Well, it's because transcendental arguments
through the lineage of van Til go back to a bunch of work
that was done by Emmanuel Kant,
who's an Enlightenment philosopher,
a German, I guess, Prussian philosopher
from what we're talking about, the 18th century, right?
And he is undergoing a very specific project
about the, I guess, I don't want to talk too much
about Kant because it's very, very complicated.
And we can do that, that would be self-derailing
if I did that, but he's performing a kind of rigorous
a priori investigation into the conditions
that give rise to conscious experience.
There's one way to put it.
And he very much, he's talking about intelligibility
and the coherence of our manifold of experiences, right?
And one of the super interesting
and cryptically difficult bits of his critique of pure reason
that's his magnum opus is kind of like key Enlightenment text
is one of the key ideas in there
is about the unity of a perception, right?
So he's broadly speaking, right?
This is no way to really summarize this
and do justice to it at the same time,
but this is something along the ideas of like,
unless there was a kind of unified nature to your experience,
then it just, it would be completely unintelligible.
Broadly, roughly, think about it like this.
It's a bit like experience, he thinks,
is something where you can't take out one bit of it
and have that on its own, right?
Like think about it like this.
Imagine, obviously your experience is just like a sequence
of things that happens one after the other.
Now you have your cup of tea, then you go for a walk,
then you look down at your shoe,
then it starts raining, blah, blah, blah, whatever it is.
One thing happens after another.
Now, each of those things can make sense.
You can think about what it was like
when you looked down at your shoe
or when it started raining or something,
but they're implicitly in a context of like
this being before something, young after something else,
they're like, you know, think about how there's like
emotional state that you're in
or just the kind of general experiences
impinge upon that one experience.
And like, you know, there's other philosophers,
Edmund Husserl and giving of the 20th century
makes a big deal out of this type of stuff too
and phenomenology, but like you,
the idea of Kent's trying to say is that you can't,
you couldn't really,
it doesn't really make any sense to think about experience
being simply just one snapshot on its own,
like a single frame from a film or something.
That kind of does make sense
because you can hold it up and look at it and see this
as just a still frame of like the wagon wheel
going around or something,
but like Kent thinks that your conscious experience
couldn't be broken down like that.
It has to be kind of all as one.
This is kind of like-
Almost like a narrative in a way.
A narrative, yeah, yeah, absolutely, yeah.
That's it, exactly.
A stream of things,
not just individual atoms of experience.
So you can see that just broadly speaking,
without going into any more of the detail,
how what he's talking about is like the preconditions
of the intelligibility of your experience
and he's making a claim and there's very difficult,
very cryptic and complicated arguments,
the big system thing that you have to go through
to work out how, why he's saying what he's saying
and how it makes sense, right?
And that is the lineage into which we get
transcendental arguments,
because he has, you know,
the term transcendental comes from Kent, basically.
He has a transcendental deductions of the categories
and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
You can find out if you should get a Kent scholar
and talk to them one day about this.
Right, right, right.
I get it.
And I'm not trying to have you speak
and then misspeak on something that he...
Oh yeah, no, I don't worry about that.
I will certainly misspeak,
but I will give a decent thumbnail sketch
of what we're talking about without being very accurate
or, you know, academically too accurate on Kent.
I'm not a Kent scholar,
but my point really is just to say
the term intelligibility and intelligibility
of experience, the preconditions of intelligibility,
all of that stuff is coming out of this Kentian.
I don't think you're asking me about that.
That's not actually what you mean
when you say how do you account
for the intelligibility of whatever it is, right?
You don't really mean that.
You were saying something much more broad,
but I think let's just, let's park all of that
because I think there's just distraction
by people in this tradition
who don't really know the philosophy very much
and don't really realize that what they're doing
is misusing terms from a Kentian tradition
and they know nothing about.
Let's think about something like,
look, what if somebody said,
how do you account for the laws of logic as an atheist?
Like, is this a typical argument?
And, you know, if you say something like,
well, I mean, I guess they don't exist really,
like physical things, they might say,
I have, but aren't you committed to this ontology
that there are only material things, right?
You, as an atheist, don't believe in things like gods
or angels or souls or whatever.
So how come there can be laws of logic on your worldview, right?
Aren't you just committed to things
that science can measure?
Science can't measure laws of logic.
They're not in a test tube or whatever, right?
So you might think, oh yeah,
I have to explain the laws of logic
in terms of something that ultimately material.
And that might be very challenging, right?
As a, if you take yourself to have such a restricted ontology,
like picture of like what exists,
the only material things exist,
then yeah, there are things like what laws of logic are,
what mathematical objects are, but other things too,
like what's a possibility?
What's a property as opposed to a thing that has a property?
What do you mean?
The redness, is that just all of the red things
or is there something independently that's redness
that exists beyond the things themselves
that instantiate that property?
There's a whole bunch, the whole world of like things
you have to figure out, what do I think about?
I was a moral valour.
You can see, I'm sorry,
you can see why I call this mental masturbation, right?
Well, I can see why the way that it's used
by presuppositionists in an aggressive macho manner is,
but these are just philosophical questions
that I don't think are worthless.
I think that they, I mean,
the value of philosophy is something
that philosophers talk about, right?
And there are philosophers who think
that philosophy is worthless, okay?
So it's not like I'm committed to 100%
to these being meaningful questions,
but I don't think that they're definitely just word games.
Philosophy in general is just a big word game, right?
I don't think that that's true.
I'm just saying, I'm not like,
give an example of redness
and let's suppose five philosophers come up
with five alternative hypotheses of redness
and they have a variation
and they're completely contrary to each other
or maybe they're not exclusive and they're,
but they're just so out there
and there's no way to ever falsify
or even prove these points.
To me, it feels like mental masturbation on things.
For example, I'm asking you philosophical questions
because I'm not a philosopher.
We're hanging out, we've got 334 people live.
I don't go on my day-to-day basis going,
how come I understood what the back of that box said
when it had language describing ingredients for this
and I knew to calculate how much to pay for my rent on.
I don't think like, you know,
how do I need to explain and rationalize
and have an answer for that
and why that is in order for my life to make any sense
and to go about my day.
I don't, it's when you do encounter these people,
but when we're talking like,
I call it mental masturbation
because in my mind,
when I do talk to very sophisticated guys like you
on philosophy and they'll go, well, math,
there's three main ways in which math can be made sense
and let's go over those three main ways.
And then I go, okay, so what's the answer?
And you go, well, we don't know the answer to this.
And I'm like, okay, so then let's suppose
I perform my brain muscles over the next 10 years,
I become philosophically astute
and I am well acquainted with the greatest minds
from Hume to the theistic side.
And next thing you know, I go, well, what's the answer?
And like, we don't know.
There's argumentation, you can maybe find ways
to falsify some of these.
But like this, I mean, if there were answers
to those questions that everybody could agree upon,
then they would just have become part of science, right?
When, so what are lightning bolts, right?
There was a period in time
when people didn't really know what that was
and the philosophers would speculate about what they were
to, you know, it's cliche about like people thinking
it was used hurling thunderbolts
down at people when he was alive or something.
But, you know, people may have had all sorts
of explanations for them.
These days we have a scientific explanation
that kind of moved out of the realm
of speculative philosophy
and became part of empirical science, right?
So philosophy in a way is just where problems live
when we don't know how to resolve them empirically.
So it's not like a gotcha to say,
oh, you can't like, there's only answers in philosophy.
Yeah, that's why they're philosophy
and not maths or physics or biology or sociology or whatever.
If they did have answers, or if we at least knew enough
about the question, parameters of the problem,
to be able to kind of cleanly define what the problem was,
it wouldn't be philosophy anymore,
it would have just, that's how sciences become sciences.
Everything starts off as speculation of philosophers
and it's only after time that some of those things
get like promoted or demoted,
however you wanna think about it,
into the empirical realm.
So philosophy is just the ideas factory
before, you know, like West, you know,
these nebulas where stars are just big bunches of gas
before they turn into discrete objects of things, right?
That's a philosophy is like the gaseous kind of nebula realm
where ideas are, it's not clear where they begin
or where they end or who's right or who's wrong
and what's going on.
That can be super exciting if you like that stuff.
If you don't like uncertainty and vagueness,
it can be super frightening if you're a scientist
or if you're a religious person,
it can be difficult to find your way around that type of thing.
So, yeah.
Thank you for making it.
Yeah.
Yeah, and that is as a non-philosopher, I mean, I'm not.
I find a Christian apologist in various forms,
evidentialists, priests up, you name it,
often love that avenue of philosophy.
They love to be in that avenue
and when they encounter a channel like mine
that mainly deals with historical, mundane,
evidentialist, literary, et cetera,
they tend to, you know, they act like I have no clue
what I'm talking about or any of this
and I'm dealing with, you know,
leading experts in the world from a critical standpoint,
even some are theist Christians
who just don't have this inerrancy view of the Bible
who have a much more critical,
there are flaws, there are problems,
it's legendary, it's this, it's that
and they see it and we have a common experience
in recognizing what it looks like
and this is gonna sound like a really derel
and going back even further philosophically.
Okay, I don't mind.
I wanna make a comment and then have you take us into this
because we go back to the great pre-Socratics,
to the great minds and antiquity in the Greek world.
These are non-Christian, non-Jewish Greeks
and I find it's an ironic thing for me to say this
when I was in chat with Jay Dyer,
like, do you not find it a little bit strange
that God reveals these truths, not to the Jews,
not to the Christians, but to the Greek pagan philosophers
you know, that are not your guys
and of course later church fathers actually rationalize this
when you read their letters, they rationalize and say,
well, God revealed these things to them.
So in a sense, they were actually Christian.
They would make arguments for political
and then all this stuff.
Inacronistically, he really had been revealed
the revelation of Christ and look
at how morally astute they were.
I mean, these guys were really moral people
and I'm going, you don't find that the heritage
from the Greeks handing it down the baton
to Jewish and Christians, that that doesn't do anything
mentally to make you go,
why didn't you just give it all to Moses
or give it all to these guys and like find a way
and they tried to rationalize that.
Many of the Jewish philosophical minds,
Philo of Alexandria and such, tried to go,
well, further back, Moses did initially get this stuff
but every scholar in the field who knows how Hellenized
these Jewish thinkers were by the Greek philosophers
and the Greek thought of the day and the Roman at times,
recognize that the impact was not from the Judeo background
as much as it was from that Greek sophisticated background
that made them paint Moses in the picture of Greek thought.
And so I'm giving you evidentialist like argumentation
from the literary point, I get it,
but I did a video called Meet the God of the Real Bible
and I show how ancient Near Eastern scholars
compare Yahweh and El depending on if you see him
as two deities, which is what these scholars say,
they get morphed and fused into a single one over time
when monotheism's on the scene.
This God was anthropomorphic.
I'm not just talking about language-wise,
this God had an actual body, legs, hands, eyes,
according to the ancient scribes
and the ancient worshipers of this deity
that went into the temples and such,
he had an actual penis, he had children, he had a wife
and I document all of this and show what the experts say.
Eventually, thanks to Plato and the great minds
of philosophy, God becomes this immaterial outside
unfalsifiable being that, and just to me,
I'm like, thanks Plato, I appreciate it guys.
Now we're dealing with a different God.
Do you have any thoughts on philosopher
on anything that I said?
Well, I mean, there's a well-known distinction
between the God of Christianity, God of Abrahamic religions
and the God of the philosophers, right?
That's classic, right?
God of philosophers, typically we're talking about,
depends exactly where, I mean, Aristotle obviously
has this idea of the kind of unmoved mover,
whatever, your actual eyes and blah, blah, blah, blah.
And that directly feeds into Christian
philosophical apologetics, you know,
your Aquinas and your Anselms and stuff like that.
These guys in the early, when's Anselm,
like 10, 100, something like that.
But in this period, what's going on is,
Greek literature is being rediscovered
through interactions with the early Islamic,
one of my, trying to say, civilization, empire, whatever.
Right, and there was a great, almost enlightening phase
for a century or two in Islamic thought, based on the text.
That's right, because what happened is
the Western Roman Empire collapsed
and it was kept alive in the East.
And then the Eastern Roman Empire,
large parts of what they controlled
were taken over by the Arabs,
who inherited a bunch of Greek texts.
So over in Britain and France and Germany and stuff,
we were licking slime off the back of rocks at this point,
whilst the Arabic world were doing algebra
and physics and rational and doing the Kalam,
cosmological argument and stuff.
We were absolutely no one, but we inherited
that Christian intellectual thought inherited that too.
And so, yeah, there's a whole lot of Greek philosophy
that's infused right at the base hundreds of years ago,
thousand years ago, into Christian intellectual life.
And we're still seeing it right now, absolutely.
But yeah, there's a big conflict there.
It seems to me it's not really ever resolved very well,
because on the one hand, you've got this idea
of a personal God who cares about what you do,
who you sleep with, what you believe, how you act,
stuff like that, has a personal relationship with you,
has a son who dies and cares about what happens,
what all these human interests,
they might be of a really super-duper human or whatever,
but they are human interests nonetheless.
And then the God of the Philosophers
is kind of his timeless, spaceless entity
that's ultimately responsible for why everything exists,
but impossible to think of him having human project,
human-like projects, right?
Or activities or really knowing you in any particular way,
because it's kind of an unchanging entity,
you can't get to know you or anything like that.
So the two notions are kind of broadly speaking,
I would say incompatible,
but very difficult to reconcile,
there's a big tension there.
Yeah, that's a well-known problem, right?
Sorry, do you think that as you described philosophy,
I think it's a great place for people
who think, who want to think,
who want to exercise their thoughts
and test limits and boundaries,
and I imagine we will discover many things
due to this thinking process by intelligent people.
Do you think that as science,
which is based on the empirical, observable, testable,
repeatable ideas that we find in the world,
coupled with philosophy,
I know that this has changed over time,
and I've read some books where they talk about
how science has kind of changed the way some philosophy
has worked and how people have made observations
about the world.
Do you think that most philosophers,
academic philosophers are atheists
because they are coupling that with science
and seeing what fits reality as they see it?
Why, I guess another way to phrase the question is,
the last time I look at the statistics of PhDs in the field
or in actual academics who are philosophers,
the majority of them are not theists.
Why do you think that is so?
In a way, I'm kind of reluctant to engage
in this type of thing because it's very, very speculative
and I'm not sure that there's,
this kind of sounds to me like a sociological question
and I'm not anywhere near well versed enough in it,
but I mean, a competing thing that I can't tell you
how to distinguish between is probably what's true
is that most academic philosophers are middle class, right?
In order to go to university,
you have to be somewhat rich.
In order to pick a subject like philosophy
that's got no vocational prospects attached to it,
you have to be even more secure in your own welfare
or whatever, right?
If you're worried about living day to day,
if you are lucky enough to get to go to university,
you'll probably do something vocational,
law, the medicine, something like that,
to secure your future and to look after your family
or whatever.
If you're the kind of idle, aristocratic layabout
like me, I guess, or at most people who get that,
I mean, I just wonder whether this is a selection effect
that accounts for why it's a bad excuse, right?
I don't know that there's anything profound about that.
It could just be a correlation
between some material condition
and people having certain types of jobs.
So I don't know that there's anything specifically profound.
There are other factors to play in that answer potentially
that you're not aware of that are going on
and that may, you don't feel comfortable
even giving an answer that you're not sure why ultimately.
I respect that.
I can't filter that out.
So I certainly don't want to say anything like,
oh, look, if you start engaging with philosophy
and suddenly you realize all religions are a joke
or something, that's wildly ambitious, it seems to me,
because certainly you can't just look at a survey
of philosophers and draw that type of conclusion out of it.
There's many, many things that could account for that.
So yeah, I just, that's not the type of thing I,
you know, and I also, you know, to me,
this sounds like the type of thing where people say,
you know, you hear these like white nationalists
or whatever who say, you know, European civilization
we invented the steam engine and like, you blah, blah, blah,
and we must protect it.
This is all just, this is all bullshit, right?
This is all just pseudo historical rationalizing
to fit your own prejudices or something.
Right, right, right.
That's a particularly egregious example of that,
but it's also somewhat, I get my spidey senses tingling
whenever somebody says something like,
oh, but the Phil studies survey or whatever it is,
where it's like, you know,
taking the views of philosophers,
you know, most of them are atheists
or most of them, blah, blah, blah,
I think the same thing that I do,
therefore that must mean that my views are good.
Right.
That's not how philosophy works.
For one thing, you can't just take a poll
and say that most people think that's there for whatever.
The reality of philosophy is probably true
in history too and probably true
in every intellectual discipline
is that like the more specialized you get,
the less in keeping you are become
with whatever the majority view is
because you've spent 10 years deep diving into something.
You probably have picked up a specific point of view
as a result of that.
And it'd be weird if everybody else already thought that,
who hadn't done a big deep diving to it.
So you just find if you do any activity like this
for a long time,
you have to just be comfortable taking your own view
and it doesn't matter if somebody else thinks differently
or if, you know, the majority of whatever
think differently about stuff.
You know, people will say majority of scientists
believe in the big bang or something.
Okay, the majority of scientists are not astrophysicists.
So it doesn't really matter what they think.
Most of them are like, you know, podiatrists or whatever.
Like they're cool that they think the big bang is true
but it's got really nothing to do with what they specialize in.
So, and if you actually look at cosmogonists,
people who, the astrophysicists who look at the beginning
of the universe,
then the field's completely wide open right now.
There isn't really any consensus on anything.
So it doesn't help at all.
It's actually misleading to say,
most scientists believe in the big bang
because most of them are completely unqualified
to give a view about that.
So it's the same with philosophy that most,
even if they say they're atheists,
if they never do any work in the philosophy of religion
or in the question of atheism, it doesn't really matter.
You may as well ask her if the majority of bakers are atheists,
right?
What's it got to do with it?
I just figured it might have something to do
with the fact that they're thinking through all of this
because they're thinkers
and they might have seen enough to realize,
whoa, why would we assume that?
I guess that was what my mind is, is a non-philosopher.
And I've heard that before.
That's why I repeated that argument
or that question to you is I've heard that said.
Philosophers are correlated with people who question things.
That's definitely true.
And if there's a dominant religion in society,
it's probably gonna be quite likely
that there's a dominant viewpoint
about political, religious, whatever.
You're probably gonna find philosophers
because philosophy is questioning stuff, right?
If you're not into doing that,
you're probably not into philosophy.
If you are into doing that,
you're probably not into just accepting
wholesale what society tells you.
So probably just nothing else to go on with that.
You could predict that philosophers
would have counter-cultural beliefs
and learn what they do, right?
So it doesn't mean that they're getting closer to the truth.
It doesn't mean religion is bullshit.
It doesn't mean, you know,
maybe most philosophers are like jazz music, right?
It doesn't mean that like rock music is rubbish
because they've thought it through in any way.
So anyway, that's my view, right?
I just don't really care about like philosophy surveys
or what people think about stuff.
I care about like philosophical arguments
and how plausible they seem to me,
whether they make me think that my views are inconsistent
or I didn't realize that something followed
from a given thing.
That's interesting, but it doesn't really matter.
You know, I'll listen if someone I respect
comes to me and tries to tell me something or whatever,
but I'm not just gonna be like,
oh, Graham Oppie said it's what must be true.
Right, right, right.
William Lane Craig said it's what must be false.
And that's not the right way to think about it.
And similarly, I wouldn't really care
if everyone in philosophy, religion became theist.
I mean, these things come in patterns and trends as well,
right?
Like a little while back, philosophy, religion
wasn't fashionable at all.
Hardly anybody worked in it.
There's been a big resurgence in it
over the last sort of 40 years or so.
There's way more theists getting involved.
You know, I'm perfectly cool with that.
No problem at all, have theist voices in the community.
That's absolutely great.
They shouldn't be dominated by one viewpoint or another.
But it's just an ebb and a flow of a tide.
And then someday it will go out of fashion again.
It doesn't mean anything.
It doesn't mean like religion is false
because it's out of fashion or that it's true
because it's in fashion.
You have to just sort of rise above that.
I just want to say to our audience for those of you,
this is a true philosopher here.
We're talking about here.
That's exactly the kind of answer you would expect
from someone who just thinks he's a philosopher, thinks,
and makes me think of Socrates and such.
You know, you're the one,
and I'm blaming you for the title of this video
because it's-
I was thinking of the title though.
I chose one over the other one,
but you're like presuppositional
and destroyed like you've never seen.
I watched the video that you sent me
that's actually titled that
and the guy that was confident and certain
about revelation to him.
I don't know, you've engaged
with some of the Orthodox Christian precepts
like Jay Dyer and such.
They will laugh at precepts that are Protestant,
that are reliant, it seems on scripture.
It seems like it bases itself on scripture,
but and correct me if I'm wrong,
maybe you know this and maybe you don't.
I think when they base theirs on the church,
if they're dealing with or a combination of both scripture
and the revelation given to the church.
Yeah, I don't actually know that much about Orthodox.
I mean, I guess they depart from Catholicism
in like fifth century or something.
It's pretty early, right?
And it's weird to schism over Jesus' nature.
I actually don't know, but then I guess
they have their own tradition.
Is it just the same as Catholicism
and their own church fathers and tradition
that's handed down to them rather than,
you know, the Protestants were came about
because the translations of text.
So suddenly they rediscovered reading text in the vernacular
and that meant that they felt they suddenly had a viewpoint
on the religious tradition that was different
from what they were getting told by their priests
and stuff and that little fetishizes this idea
of the book and direct connection
to the word of God or whatever.
I don't know if that's the same.
I guess it's not the same Greek author,
but really I'm not an expert.
Got it, no, I just didn't know if you had anything.
My view is a precept position
isn't really has nothing to do with very little to do
with the details of how the different bits of Christianity
are different to each other.
I mean, okay, sure.
Yeah, you might get someone like Banson
or whatever we'll say, you know,
that this is grounded in the text
because he's Calvinist, he's Protestant.
So it's absolutely that type of thing.
So he'll pull out like bits of which a bit of some Paul
is it way saying about how the unbeliever is like deceiving
themselves or God, I can't remember this stuff.
You probably know what I'm talking about
which better than I do, right?
That's the, what's this phrase?
Damn it, I used to know the survival.
Yeah, right.
So Paul says something about how the unbeliever is like
in the state of Jerusalem.
They're dead in their trespasses and sins.
They're completely dead.
Like they don't have the knowledge of God in a way.
Right, right.
But basically without the detail,
it doesn't really matter what the detail is
but they'll point to some passage
and say, you know, in this bit of Corinthians,
Paul says this and that's how we know that, you know,
maths is true or something like that.
Okay, cool.
Often those things are completely spirit, right?
Like there was some precept guy now,
I can't remember his name but I think he's another one
of these people who was taught by Van Til,
who used to try and say that the laws of logic
were like in the Bible, right?
So when God says to Moses, I am, I am, right?
This is apparently him grounding the law of identity
because he's saying I'm identical to myself
or something, right?
And like that's just, that's kind of dumb
in the most ridiculous sense
because obviously our point of the law of identity
is if any object, that thing is identical to itself.
So like it's great that God is telling you
that he's identical to himself.
If that's how you understand that passage, obviously,
there's loads of different ways
of understanding what's going on.
Exactly.
But suppose he was trying to say for any x, x equals x
and that's what he was trying to communicate to Moses.
It's just ridiculous, but suppose he was saying,
guess what, that's also true of this mug, right?
It's also true that this mug is identical to itself
or, you know, this table on my ear lobe or whatever.
Everything's identical to itself.
So just simply being an instance
of something that's identical to itself
doesn't actually do anything to ground logic whatsoever.
So it seems to me that the idea behind preset is just,
like we were saying before, that there's this being
that's grounding, you know, intelligibility,
whether metaphysics or logic or whatever.
But it doesn't really matter,
none of the detail about what that being is like
and how it's related to some words in a book
or some church father said it,
it doesn't really make any difference to that claim.
Like it doesn't support, it doesn't mean like, oh, if,
you know, some Greek Orthodox historical figure
said such and such, then that is suddenly the key
that unlocks you on the transcendental argument.
Absolutely not.
It has nothing to do with it.
So it's just window dressing, it seems to me,
when they relate the transcendental argument
to their specific sect of Christianity.
I just try and gloss over those bits
and get to the philosophy.
Like what's the reasoning?
How does the inference work?
What are you actually saying?
Again, discussions of like,
what the different Bible verses are saying,
basically, that's just a distraction technique.
That's how I would view that, just don't even,
don't even engage in that.
That's an interesting point.
It's like, it's like us talking about this
and then observing a Calvinist and an Arminian argue
about workspace salvation or, you know,
did you choose or did you not choose like these pedantic
mental games that we think, okay,
did God initiate the spirit first for you to react
and then accept, therefore, he monergistically saved you?
I mean, like all of this is theology lingo that I knew
and I was in it and it just sounds to me now
like complete rubbish.
And I don't mean that to be derogatory.
I really mean, I can do the mental games,
I can get lost in the weeds and hear the arguments
and look at the passages.
It sounds like mental games that are useless,
especially if you're using them in a debate format
to try and gotcha, because that's usually what it is.
But if you're interested in like, what did the text say,
what does the Bible actually,
what did this author really think about these things
based on what I'm reading, then that's cool
and that's where I'm at now.
So like, I don't try to make sense of it.
I realize the Bible is loaded with various viewpoints
from different people, doctrinally,
even in the New Testament, you have some free will ideas
and you have some predestinarian ideas.
Well, where did that come from?
If you just look further back in the Dead Sea Scroll,
Khumran sect, their literature
had the same debate and problems amongst themselves.
And you had someone who said,
God determined the days from the very beginning,
yada, yada, yada.
And others were like, no, no, no.
The angels that fell or the fallen ones,
the watchers and such, you see an Enoch,
they freely chose to go and sleep
with the daughters of men, et cetera.
So there's so many different perspectives.
That's like, like resonating with what I was saying about
when you interact for a long period of time on a field,
say it's philosophy or if it's history,
you end up having necessarily
having a more nuanced view as a result.
And you end up saying, well, before,
I just thought Jesus was, you know,
this whatever it is, apocalyptic preacher.
But now I know that there's like 17 different models
of what Jesus was.
And I now have a kind of sophisticated
kind of probability waiting
amongst those different hypotheses
based on like the explanatory powers I view it, blah, blah,
blah.
And you don't just have a black and white view.
You have loads of different variations
of like shades of gray all over the place.
And this is how it is in philosophy as well.
Like you said, I just want to know what the answer is.
Well, the more you look at it,
the more you're going to find
that there's just shades of gray.
It didn't seem like to you to begin with.
This seemed completely obvious.
I mean, this is a typical thing that happens
when an undergraduate studies philosophy
to begin with, you read a bit of like Descartes or something
and like Descartes is completely right about everything.
And you read a bit of Hume,
you go on and Descartes was wrong about everything.
Hume was completely right about everything.
And we can go, damn it, Hume was wrong.
Count was right.
And then, you know, it just goes on like that.
And what's happening is you're like undermining
your sense of like certainty
and the confidence about everything.
That, now welcome to philosophy.
You've arrived when you don't have confidence about it.
But it's similar with the history, right?
I mean, you might think, oh yeah, it must be the case
that, you know, whatever historical figure was like this.
I mean, actually, when you look at it, no,
there's a little sort of variations
and there's like scholars discuss some different points.
And like, if you want, you'll find a scholar
that argues almost anything, but you, you know,
any opinion on almost any topic.
You might find somebody out there
who's written a book about it,
gonna use it, whatever, you know?
So, yeah.
Just one more point.
And then I got some super chats we can get as we exit
because I know it's getting late where you're at.
And thank you for your time.
This has been fantastic.
We can do this again and dive into various topics.
I love learning from you
and I love how you're not axe grinding either direction.
You have your thoughts and you're helping me
to think through these things as well.
What I was going to mention specifically dealing with,
what was I gonna mention?
I literally lost it as I was trying to pivot from that.
Oh, oh, this is my point.
I do think, I mean, we can get lost
in like not knowing anything
and pretending like we have no clue about anything.
But one of the arguments that I'll bring up,
and I do this often,
is comparative using a heuristic approach,
comparative mythology, comparative literature,
things like that.
So I want you as a philosopher to gauge what I'm saying
and see if this is a good,
if I'm making a strong case in your view.
I'm sure there's holes.
I'm sure there's ways we can lower my confidence.
But when I look at,
let's just say a deity or a hero in Greek and Roman
or Jewish mythology,
and these are texts that may not even be canonical,
but the hero, the God, whatever, does something,
whether they are killed in a drastic way,
similar to you see Jesus,
and they are alive now in this celestial place
where they ascended into heaven,
whether it's Mount Olympus
or whatever the place you may wanna call.
And you find there's method to this.
So you're finding geographically, linguistically,
you're finding a common cultural shared theme
where even ancient authors themselves
ascribed this kind of genre,
they gave it a genre,
calling it fable,
calling it legend or calling it myth.
And we look back and say,
here are these authors that are saying,
these more elite educated authors
that are saying,
there are people in the common world
who probably believe some of these things,
but I'm letting you know in literature,
which are the educated people who wrote and read and such,
this is called a translation fable or a fable,
or this is called a legend or myth, and they categorize it.
And then you find these weird stories in the New Testament
that walk like a duck, talk like a duck,
smell like a duck, taste like a duck and everything.
They look very much like the typical,
what these other people ascribe genre wise
to Heracles, Dionysus, to heroes, to kings, to Caesars.
The list goes on and on.
And these are contemporaneous figures and deities
that are extremely popular in the world
which Christianity was born out of.
And then I say to you,
this is a strong case in my view
to show that Jesus also fits that genre
and therefore is in the line
of legend-making, myth, translation fable, et cetera.
Now as a philosopher who's very critical,
who's looking at me going, all right,
you might have a bias.
You might say, I already agree with you on this stuff anyway
based on my little research,
but is this a strong case to you
on showing why we could look with high confidence
that Jesus is in the same vein as the rest of the before,
during and after legends and myths and fables?
I mean, you know, it's a bit unfair
because I'm not anywhere near as well-versed
in this area as you are.
So asking my opinion about it is, you know,
I don't pretend to have any particular insight on this,
but I suppose off the top of my head,
I do wonder whether there's a tendency
for like pattern recognition across dogas cases.
I mean, like obviously humans is cliche anthropological point
that humans are like patterns.
He can be creatures or whatever.
But, you know, I don't know if you ever,
I watched this series of documentaries
about the JFK assassinations
called the Men Who Killed Kennedy.
The Men Who Killed Kennedy
is because I'll point that there's like loads
of different theories.
So it's quite cool, it's old school.
Anyway, grassy novel theory, you know,
the guy who was in the like sewers underneath Oswald,
whatever, there's loads of different ranges of things there.
But what was kind of fascinating about it was that
it's sort of like each episode focuses on a different theory.
And I interviewed people who were like advocates
of that theory.
And, you know, some of them are very convinced
about what's going on.
You know, they picture taken, you know,
of the cavalcade or whatever it is going past
and Kennedy's just been shot
and you can see the grassy novel in the background.
It's like the only still shot
that's like supposedly got in frame,
but such low res, you have to zoom in
on such a small bit when you get into that
and like apply the right like color adding techniques
and maybe they're dodgy, maybe they're not whatever.
Maybe if you look at it the right way,
it kind of looks like a guy holding a gun, right?
And if you spend absolutely ages
going into all of the new ones,
exactly how the resolution should be done and blah, blah, blah.
I guess you could probably interview someone
who gives you a really good case for that.
And I don't know whether that's complete nonsense
or if they're an absolute genius
and maybe they've got it right or something.
You just kind of have to accept
that maybe there are convincing instances of patterns
that you can spot amongst large pools of data
like ancient literature or astrological phenomena
or resolution of photographs or whatever.
If you really, you know,
if lots of people spend lots of time looking at it,
they'll find different things.
They'll put patterns in barks, preludes and stuff like this.
You know, the people have historically argued
for stuff like that.
Now, the difficulty as a layperson,
like me looking over your shoulder at this area,
I haven't spent any time looking at it,
is that I'm very unclear about
whether what you're saying is well-supported
or if it's an instance like this
where there's people finding the patterns
that over time they're reasserting in their brain
and they just start seeing a pattern
like this guy who thought the figure in this grainy photo
looked just like a policeman holding a rifle
whereas I looked only like a blob to me.
Maybe if I spend ages looking at it,
it'll look like that too.
I would have to, I guess another way to put it is
I would have to give you much more
if you were even interested, which is another question.
You may not even be interested in this question.
And it's interesting to me
because I thought Jesus was God and the flesh,
the only way, the only truth, et cetera.
So you could see why I had motivated reasoning
when I started seeing similarities that were there
based on other academics' works
that I wanna understand why did they come to this conclusion
and is this really true?
And I guess I would imagine I came in
and I gave you more and showed,
hey, in the literary practices of the day in Greek,
you had to know these stories.
And I was able to show you that like,
they were not ignorant of this kind of material
and then Jesus just so happens to look very much
like some of the material.
Another way of putting it, I guess,
instead of the grassy knoll JFK thing would be,
I start to paint a picture of a guy dressed in black.
He wears a cape.
He has devices that make him fly.
He usually comes out at night.
He is an affinity to bats.
I'm not talking about Batman though.
Okay, like at what point do you finally go,
okay, okay, something's going on?
So there's so many factors.
I appreciate your answer of not being sure.
I knew you'd probably give me something like that.
But I imagine if I kept building that case
and showing you more reasons,
then I think the confidence level would build a little more
and recognizing something's going on.
But it probably would if I kept on going on
about how the moon landing is fake
and kept showing you pictures.
How do the flags waving if there's no atmosphere on the moon?
What about this?
If you speed the footage up,
it looks like they're just in a normal studio.
Well, if I keep banging a horn at you all the time
and you get obsessed with it,
yeah, maybe your mind will change.
I don't know, but it's a psychological question
as much as anything.
I mean, is this approach good?
In general, the approach should be to expose yourself to us
if you really want to find out more about the subject.
And look, this, I'm a speciality in this.
I broadly explain the empirical method
in general sense to you.
Do you already know about that?
But if you want to find out something about an empirical field,
you should expose yourself to as much information
as you possibly can about all the different diverse views
as much first time empirical evidence as you can
and then make your own mind about it.
So could you persuade me?
That's an empirical psychological question.
Maybe, I don't know.
It's not interested how persuasive you are
as a speaker, blah, blah, blah,
but none of that's relevant to whether it's true.
Does how susceptible would I be to that type of stuff?
I mean, I'm not speaking in a rhetorical way of convincing,
even though that plays factors.
Everything matters.
Every little thing matters.
I'm saying, here's the literature,
here's what experts in the field say,
and here's why they draw these conclusions.
You can keep going back within, why do they say this?
Oh, and then why, and then read more literature.
And then I'm just saying, I guess, I figure I'd ask you,
but that would be a rabbit trail.
We would never end a discussion on it
until you actually ventured into it.
There's a whole field of the philosophy of history.
So there are people who you could talk to
who specialize in how to interpret
and understand the empirical science of history
from a philosophical point of view.
There are philosophical questions in the study of history,
just like there are philosophical questions
in the study of biology, or physics,
or mathematics, or whatever.
There's, for any empirical subject,
there's a philosophy of that subject,
because at some point, the broad, wide questions
stop being clearly parameterizable and answerable,
and they bleed into just this,
as we talked about before,
like an idea factory of philosophy
where no one really knows what's going on, right?
So every subject has those kind of elements to it.
So you'll find, if you want a good philosophical perspective,
I'm not the right person.
I mean, my philosophical expertise
is really more in metaphysics or whatever.
So if you're asking me about the philosophy of history,
I'm just not very good at that.
It's not my field.
So I can't say much more than I do.
But I mean, look, I'm broadly sympathetic to the idea
that they probably are just all myths and blah, blah, blah,
but that's not because I have any kind of special insight
to it, it's because it just seems right to me
from the armchair.
But who cares about what it seems like from the armchair?
From my armchair, what empirical science seems like,
should have no relevance to anybody.
You're infallible in that armchair.
Thank you, Gypsy Prince, for becoming a member of MythVision.
I really appreciate that.
Seth of Vahala, thank you for the super chat for a Christian.
The content of scripture must serve
as his ultimate presupposition, true or false.
I say false because there are several Christians, in fact,
that don't hold to scripture being that ultimate presupposition.
Catholics, like most Christians, probably don't think
that's true.
So that doesn't seem a very likely candidate for something
that has to be true.
That just sounds like the sort of thing
that a Protestant presupp would say,
because they fetishize the notion of the scripture
being the only possible thing that explains absolutely
everything.
So yeah, that does seem like a sort of weird cult-like extreme
position to take, not one that every Christian takes.
Absolutely, yeah.
Thank you.
Vesper, please go into the history of sophistry in apologism.
That would be another show, probably, I don't know.
Yeah, the history of sophistry.
I mean, sophistry goes back before apologist, apologism.
Apologism, I've never even heard that, the word apology being
turned into an ism as such.
But yeah, sophistry, I mean, what sophistry means
in that kind of historical presocratical,
these ancient Greek context is like somebody who,
a bit like the way a lawyer will argue a case in court
because they're paid to defend their client.
Doesn't mean that they believe that the client is innocent,
or that the arguments that they're making are correct.
What they're doing is making the argument for other reasons,
because they're paid to do so, or whatever.
Or if you pick, if you're in a debate club at high school,
you will defend a proposition.
Doesn't mean that you believe that it's true.
It means that that's what you're doing at the debate club.
You defend a proposition, or you attack a proposition,
whatever it is that you're doing.
Or if you're trying to get laid in a bar,
you might advance an argument, maybe she's super into the column,
so you get all of those arguments or whatever.
But you might be doing it for another purpose.
That's my point, is that like, and a sophist is just somebody
who would be advancing arguments for money, right?
Whatever that's paid to do, might be in a court of law,
it might be in a debate.
They'd be on YouTube these days, right?
They'd have their, they'd be taking super chats, frankly,
and arguing the point, only the one of them.
So sophists doesn't necessarily mean that they're wrong,
anywhere, any more than like a lawyer is wrong,
or that they're deceitful or anything,
but it does mean they're not doing argumentation
in that kind of, in that kind of mindset of like,
and you know, trying to discover the truth and being all like,
it's only some people have this idea
that there's only one way to engage with argumentation
and discussions and stuff, and it's that you have to have
this attitude of like a truth seeker,
and someone who's trying to get to the truth,
where the reality is, people use arguments
for all sorts of reasons, many of them,
perhaps most, perhaps all of them are different from that,
because you've got some agenda play,
you need to do something, you're trying to get laid,
you want to get paid, you want to do whatever,
there's, those are the agendas and things that are really
like, you know, and to try and pretend what,
when I'm engaging in an argument,
all I'm doing is searching for the truth,
and there's no ulterior motive, no agenda, no context,
no nothing, I'm not a sophist,
I'm a truth seeking sage or whatever,
that is probably just self-indulgent sanctimonious,
you know, bullshit basically.
Am I allowed to swear on this?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
I don't want to get you demonetized or like whatever.
You'll be all right, you'll be all right.
Yeah, I don't imagine you going on a tirade of, yeah.
Yeah, I just think like a sophist often has
this kind of connotation these days of being like,
sophistry just means like,
some kind of fallacious argumentation or something,
but the history of it just is someone who's
employing it professionally for whatever,
they're earning a living by making arguments,
there's nothing necessary wrong with that.
Thank you.
James Apperson, thank you for the super chat.
Presup equals gaslighting,
distort reality to make malleable.
Okay, malleable doesn't have a U in it, I don't think.
That's okay.
Yeah, presupply equals gaslighting.
I mean, obviously that's true in the sense
of the type of wolf pack hunting stuff
that we started off talking about,
that the gang of guys who jumped on you
and tried to make you feel intellectually inferior to them
because they would say the big words
that caught you off guard or whatever.
That is, there's a lot of things like gaslighting
and stuff that go on there.
As I said, it's linked to a kind of,
I would say it's linked to a kind of toxic masculinity
in a way, it's like trying to dominate other men
or whatever, trying to be the big man, it's nothing.
I think it's something like kind of feminine,
almost like cuck like about my attitude,
which is shrugging your shoulders
and being humble or whatever,
trying to be open about not knowing answers
to certain questions.
I think that some men will find that unattractive
because it's not masculine, it's big and strong.
And I mean, I don't really care about that,
it doesn't really matter to me,
but I think that there's definitely a trend,
a correlation between bad,
what seems to me like unhealthy pictures of masculinity
and this type of approach to apologetics
is very controlling and dominating and stuff like that.
Thank you for that.
Not me, anyway.
Yeah, no, I appreciate it.
I think I've experienced that as well over time.
My certainty and confidence of knowing something,
it's like I almost have a confidence,
my confidence in now builds off of being open
to not being right and being open to various ideas.
So it's a maturity, I think, that's there.
Grays174, thank you so much.
Is there any chance that you have read Richard Carrier's
blog post in response to pre-sub
about how logic works on physicalism?
I haven't, I do find Carrier's blog
is quite difficult to get through, they're quite long.
And yeah, he's not my favorite philosopher.
I quite enjoy listening to him talk about history
and I think he's a very, very articulate
and entertaining person to listen to.
Just have very different views on philosophy from him.
So I don't tend to browse around his blog very much
and yeah, there's a lot of hot takes on pre-sub out there.
Yeah, so I'm not really familiar with his.
Thank you, thank you so much Grays.
Scott Duke in the house, what does Alex think
of R.C. Sproul's critique of Vantil
in classical apologetics, 1984?
What arguments did Vantil actually bring?
I seem to remember Sproul's critique was,
and maybe I'm confusing this with Montgomery's,
but I think Sproul basically said
that Vantil didn't actually make the argument.
And he was just like saying,
well, what actually is the transcendental argument?
And I must be forgetting some of the new ones here.
I might even get in the wrong person, but if that's right,
that seems to be completely spot on anyway.
And Vantil is, you know, English isn't his first language.
I think he was Dutch, a Dutch immigrant to the U.S.
Obviously spoke English, but didn't really engage
in the analytic tradition that I'm in
at most contemporary English-speaking philosophers do,
which is very, very influenced by logic,
you know, Frege, Russell, Wittensnein,
that type of thing where logical form and stuff
is sort of the most primary thing.
Vantil really is engaging with Continental philosophy
or idealism and Kantian tradition, that type of thing.
So I think the criticism that he just never actually stated
the argument in premise conclusion form is just true.
I just think he never did that.
It's some of his later people like Greg Banson
or whatever sort of do,
but then they end up giving premises
that are completely implausible.
Like unless God existed, logic wouldn't exist.
And it's like, great, you've gone under the hurdle
of stating an argument, but you haven't gone any further
and defending it in any way that makes sense.
That seems plausible.
So I might be misunderstanding,
I might be misremembering what Sprawl's critique was
in which case I apologize,
but that's what's in my brain is giving me at this point.
I just know he's reformed and that takes you down
in rabbit trail, I've read his works pertaining
to post-millennial ideas in eschatology
and stuff in the Bible.
The Stacey's Mom podcast, make sure you subscribe
to these YouTubers, by the way.
Many of them have YouTube channels
and they're actually supporting the channel here.
So go support them.
After being blindsided and somewhat steamrolled
by a pre-sub in December,
I really appreciate this conversation.
No question, just a super thanks.
Nice.
Yeah.
So did you ever get steamrolled?
Did you ever get to experience that for your first time?
No, not really because I never really talked
to any pre-subs until I was well out of my PhD
and that type of thing.
And the first pre-sub that I spoke to
was this guy called Matt Slick.
Do you know who he is?
Yes, I've heard of him.
And that's just my first-
I used to call him to his show
when I was a Christian back in the day.
That was my first time really on the internet,
like on the YouTube, like as a person in a video.
And it was really funny because it was like
really late at night for me.
I think I stayed up to like three in the morning
and I was drinking whiskey as well.
So it was like, by the end, I really needed to go to bed.
But it was hilarious because I'd been doing this job
before then and I was working in a brewery,
which I thought was gonna be really fun.
And actually turned out to be just really tedious,
like manual labor.
And anyway, it gave me a load of time
to listen to podcasts as I was like lugging stuff
from one side of this room to the other.
And for some reason, I guess it was because
it was just like street-level philosophy of fighting.
You know, his show is people were firming up
and trying to be like, oh, yeah, well,
I think logic is this.
And then he would be like, yeah, well, logic can't be that
because it's probably that.
And it was, it's fun and entertaining.
It was kind of like just something to have on
in the background.
And after a while, I was discussing some aspect of it
with my wife, we went away with my family for Christmas.
And I came in the car and was being like,
I think this is the guy I've been listening to.
I think I've come up with this critique of his argument.
I might phone him to the show and like talk to him about it.
And I did.
And for some reason he was unusually deferential
that evening.
I think it's because I said I had a PhD in philosophy
or whatever, but fully entertained me
and didn't talk over me and like, let me explain.
I think you can still see this on this YouTube channel.
It's called the Bible Thumping Wingnut Show or something.
Oh, I've heard of it, yeah.
Yeah, right.
So if you search that from my name,
you'll see this like three hour discussion
where I explained why his argument was kind of
question-bagging.
And it's really funny because like,
I was setting it out in logical form.
And I think that it's just this really like painful thing
because he just couldn't understand what I meant
by the logical form of the argument.
And he spent like 20 years brow-beating atheists
because they don't understand logic.
And I was like trying to say, you know,
it's like, you're saying if P, then not not P,
then blah, blah, blah.
And he was just not following it.
So, yeah, I guess that's probably it.
Yeah, that's right.
Awesome.
Because I think that's where I cut my teeth
in the online internet world.
I've always had a very easy ride with presuppositionists
because they didn't want to get into that situation again.
So, no, and now I think these days,
they back off getting in my face.
So I think I've earned my stripes now.
There you go.
Doc Pluromonat thoughts on Michael Bultler's review of TAG.
It seems he is arguing, even if valid,
all that is achieved are synthetic,
a priori truths without ontological necessities.
Exactly.
Michael Butler's actually really good.
He's a presuppositionist in this Benson Landtale School.
And in some ways, an awful person
if you talk to him about political stuff.
But especially in terms of a presuppositionalist person,
an advocate of presuppositionalism,
he's very fair and I think actually his paper
is really fantastic.
I wrote a blog post going through it a few years back,
which I can send you so you can put in the description
if you want.
So I can, if you read that,
you'll see my sustained engagement with that paper
and exactly what my critique of it was.
But broadly speaking, I think that he's right.
It doesn't establish any ontological necessities.
And he has this really weak-assed way
after basically saying that
and saying this is really the strongest objection.
And then there's basically Stroud's objection
I was talking about before with the modest
and the ambitious things.
Basically saying you can't really establish the ambitious stuff
so what you've got is the modest,
but that doesn't tell you anything
about what exists in reality.
It's just like, if I think I'm God's gift to women
then I'm better at picking them up in bars,
doesn't mean I actually am God's gift to them.
Like with that point again,
and he's saying that's actually the strongest objection
to presuppo.
And then he gives this really terrible thing at the end
where he's like, but still, we can say this.
And it's like, no, you can't even say that.
That's what I'm like either.
Yeah, that blog post will probably explain
what I think about it anyway.
But I do think, but there's very good, yeah.
Thank you.
Thanks doc, appreciate you showing up.
William Arons, since having a crisis in faith early in life,
I have found that as the concept of God
becomes more distant and obscure,
the more important the human relationships
have become inside of the church.
Well, that sounds like something you could speak to
more than I could.
Yeah, I can relate in my sense,
I guess what it took for me
because I had this really, really
obsessed understanding of this controlling God
that literally was watching over my every deed
and knew everything that was gonna happen before it happened,
which makes me even more insane in my head thinking about it
because it's like, hold on, am I your child?
You said that, you know, I believed.
I mean, as much as any human can describe what that means
to actually follow, live and believe
and want this stuff to be true
and stuff, and of course some Christians
that go, you never really were one of us.
Well, God played a hell of a trick on me
and honestly screwed me the hell over in my view,
in my view, notice, because I'm sitting here
trying everything I can and then as I start exiting
Christianity over time, not becoming a non-theist,
I was still a believer in some higher power.
I was going to 12 step rooms and stuff
to get clean from drugs and alcohol.
God became more abstract, like almost an idea.
And this idea cared about me though.
It was an idea, had pragmatic application.
I could see why that works.
It doesn't mean it's true.
I had this pragmatic application of a thing
that watched over me, that cared for me
and wanted success for me, wanted good.
It wanted all the things I wanted for me,
isn't that interesting?
So that made me realize people around.
I didn't have this control God who thought,
in my view, was deterministic,
that others were damned for hell predeterminantly.
Like he had certain people who were reprobates
from the beginning and others who weren't.
And I guess who they were or want to
because of human tendency of wanting to know what God knows.
Anyway, long story short, my relationships became healthier,
my balance and life became better
in terms of how I function, what I do,
how I, what I do with my time, everything.
So I can relate to that.
And if I was still a theist,
that perception of God would have had me be totally cool.
If you'd have met me as this pre-sub-reformed,
Calvinistic guy, you might've been like,
he's nuts, he's nutty.
He's obsessive about theology and Jesus
and debating every night and reading the next book
and all this kind of stuff.
And my relationship with my wife wasn't even healthy.
So I can relate even if we both have different
understandings about God today or even disagree on that.
So William's great super chat
and thank you for always being here.
Sorry to ramble, but I had to give a little more.
Grace, we have two more and then we're gonna let you go.
I hate that it took us this long,
but thank you for your time.
Do you have any thoughts on Islamic Neoplatonism?
I don't know anything about Islamic Neoplatonism,
I don't think, unless I'm forgetting something obvious,
but it's probably quite interesting,
but there's a really great podcast
called the history of philosophy without any gaps, right?
Which is a crazy title,
but it's this chap, I can't remember who he's called now.
He's a good philosopher, history of philosophy guy.
And that's where I would probably,
I might pull up one of those podcasts
because no doubt there'll be an episode.
There are only like 15 minutes long each of these episodes
because he's literally doing absolutely every,
basically every year in Western civilization,
like what the philosophical ideas were at that point.
So there'll be one on Islamic Neoplatonism,
I'm absolutely sure.
So I might go and listen to that later and see.
Like off the top of my head,
I can't think of anything about it whatsoever.
You've won the vote of best plaid shirt
for philosophers online and then also.
Best plaid shirt out of the two of us, yeah.
Professor Emeritus of Philosophy at YouTube Atheism.
And then last one is Indo says,
Craig explains math via God's desires,
which are brute contingent.
Oppie says, well, then math is brute contingent.
Can Oppie's logic imply objects like dogs
are brute contingent
because dogs explanatorily regressed to God's desires?
I don't know that I follow that question particularly well,
but what I would say is when,
so William and Craig and Graham Oppie had a debate
on the, on Craig's argument from maths, right?
Which is that he thinks that mathematics
implies that God exists.
Obviously Oppie doesn't think that.
And after they had that debate,
I had Graham on for a kind of post-debate review.
So I spent like two hours talking about the debate.
So if you want to know more about what he's had there,
in case you could watch that video on my YouTube channel.
Oh, you have a YouTube channel?
Why didn't we?
I think, I'm not gonna promote it.
And unlike you who have a very industrious work ethic,
I produce videos very infrequently
and probably awful varying qualities and stuff as well.
But yeah, so it's called a thoughtology.
Thoughtology?
Yeah, that's right.
Oh, wow.
I'm subscribing to your YouTube channel right now.
Okay, good.
And people can subscribe.
And then when you do drop a video, they will show up.
So that's how humble you are, man.
You showed up and you were like,
nah, I don't share anything.
Don't worry about it.
And I'm like, well, it doesn't matter.
It's not, I don't earn any money out of it.
I don't monetize it in any way.
So it really doesn't make any difference
to me if anybody watches it or not.
I just, I like talking about philosophy
and seeing as I'm not doing that for a living at this point.
It's quite nice sometimes to just, you know,
have a little chat with some world leading philosophy.
I mean, you must understand this idea.
You talk to world leading academics all the time, right?
That's your hobby and unlikeness, I suppose, in your case.
But seeing as I'm living in a different way,
I don't have to worry about promoting it
or doing it frequently or anything like that.
It's my job to worry about that for you then.
Okay, that's cool.
You can be my agent.
I'll tell you what I'm trying to do.
I want to create a community of thinkers.
I don't want all of us to think the same.
I'm glad.
That's why I get people, people get irritated.
You know, we get, why are you interviewing Richard Carrier?
He's a mythicist.
Most scholars think Jesus existed.
I think the guy's sharp in many ways.
I love learning from him and hearing from him.
He's entertaining as well, like you said.
I don't agree with him on the Jesus question.
He could be right though, but I don't agree with him.
I think it's less likely in my view.
But like the point is, is having guys come on
and having you chew me out on an idea and not chew me out.
But you know what I mean?
Like say, hey, I'm pushing back.
I'm not buying until I have more good concrete data to work on.
So this has been a heck of a show.
I've enjoyed it.
I hope it lives up to its title.
Maybe that's a big, big baby.
But to end on a positive note,
back on presuppositionalism as we're leaving,
your advice to someone who might be on a call-in show,
who might be forced to have to engage in some way
with this kind of game, I'll call it.
What is your advice to them when presupps come in
and challenge them again?
You're saying they're making a claim.
God must be there for logic.
God must be there for math.
You explain intelligibility,
whatever the claim may be without God, right?
How do you, what would you recommend them do?
Yeah, I mean, I guess that's,
I think I would recommend that they do is like,
spend absolutely decades of their life
mastering all of the philosophical nuances,
but that's really absurd, right?
But that's what's required to be,
to just find those conversations effortless.
Otherwise, they're gonna be quite difficult, right?
So it's like playing a game of chess
against the Grandmaster,
playing their favorite opening or whatever.
You're not gonna have an easy time.
It's gonna be very difficult unless you're a Grandmaster too.
It's, you're probably gonna lose, right?
So don't think you have to win.
Just try and focus in on,
they're making a claim at the end of the day.
They're advocating for an argument.
Like when you had that conversation,
Jay Dyer actually said,
oh, I just made the transcendental argument.
You know, it was like this,
like mic drop moment or whatever way.
So I just, I already made the argument, whatever.
I was thinking, well, I don't hear any premises.
I don't hear any inference or anything like,
what was the inference rule that you used
to derive the conclusion from the premises?
I don't hear any of that stuff.
If anyone's trying to claim
that they're making this type of argument,
I would just ask them for the details, like explain it.
Don't get sidetracked into you explaining something.
By the end of the day,
let's just, you know, it might even be worth saying,
you know, let's just suppose my view
is completely unclear, right?
Let's just suppose that's true.
Still, how do you defend the premise?
Like what's going on?
And it doesn't matter.
You don't get to win an argument
just because you're interlocutor is an idiot.
That doesn't mean you win.
You could still be wrong,
even if your opponent is a stupidest person in the world,
even if they do have an incoherent worldview.
That still doesn't mean that you've proved anything, right?
It just means that this guy is an idiot,
but it doesn't mean that you're right.
So if you're going to make an argument,
you have to back it up.
Doesn't matter if it's a transcendental argument.
Right, trust me.
My PhD was in metaphysics,
but basically like an overlap
between like logic and metaphysics.
And like, there is no type of argument.
It's an indirect argument,
it's a transcendental argument or whatever.
There is no type of argument
where you don't have to support the premises of it, right?
No one can tell you that this is a guy.
All I have to do is show that your worldview is wrong.
That's not true.
There's no argument that works like that.
If you're making a claim, maybe I'm wrong,
but you still have to justify what you're saying.
So that's the thing you have to just sort of
have a good awareness of that dynamic
and try and keep track of the ball, right?
Don't watch the player, watch the ball,
keep your eyes on it.
And you might notice when they try
and shift the burden over to you,
you can say, no, buddy, that's not my problem.
Doesn't matter if I don't have an explanation for maths
because you still haven't justified the premise.
So let's just go back to that.
And this is why sometimes it just turns
into this kind of macho thing where it's just like,
no, you say this, no, you say this first,
before I say this, and it's not really a discussion,
it's kind of a stupid argument like that.
That is one of the things that you're gonna have to do
if you wanna hold your own in a conversation like that,
especially if they don't know you
and they're gonna be disrespectful.
Right, it's so funny.
You started to get into like how it really goes.
It gets really bad really quickly.
And there's some advice for me
if I ever have to have that conversation,
which I don't want to.
I don't even like having this,
but that guy's video that the title's similar
to what we made this one,
it sounds like he's making the jump
to try and make the claim, oh, it's scripture.
And then when the guy's like,
that doesn't do anything for me.
You haven't proven anything.
So what about scripture that makes this somehow this thing?
And the guy never, I mean, I'm 20 minutes into it.
I didn't watch the whole thing, but so far,
he's like, he's dropping the juggle.
He's not even maintaining answering that question.
He's dodging it, he's avoiding it, he's distracting.
And it's like, because then once you get to scripture,
once you get to text, golly,
we have completely different observations
about this material.
And so as you know, that's my game.
You're now in my field,
and that's why I think they always want to avoid
going into that field as much as possible,
because I have good argumentation.
I have good reasons for the claims
that I'm actually bringing forward,
whether you agree with them or not.
And so at the end of the day, you would just,
if there was an honest interlocker
and they're not being disrespectful,
I feel like we'd walk away with just,
we agree to disagree and we have different worlds completely.
And it would be respectful.
I've not found that though, most of the time.
I imagine it's just Darth Dawkins types, right?
Yeah, yeah.
And that's just, he's just an asshole, that guy.
There's no point in talking to him.
But there is, on the one hand,
we talk about all this sort of fallacious burden shifting
and gaslighting and whatever.
On the other hand, look,
there is a reasonable point to be made here
about if you are interested in being into discussing
religious ideas like this, if it's historical,
if it's philosophical, whatever.
And you're an atheist.
It is reasonable to consider the philosophical questions,
like epistemological questions
or like even metaphysical questions,
because you might be presupposing some particular view, right?
You might be presupposing some kind of naive scientism
or version, a criteria of epistemology
whereby the only way to find out knowledge
on any subject is through sense perception
and testing and something like that.
And you might find that actually that's quite naive
and because you've never thought about it before,
you don't really see how naive that actually is
and all you're doing is focused in on
like the empirical details of what,
what biology or something,
you never reflect on the philosophical aspect to it.
There is a decent critique to be like,
your game is having one really strong left hand
and a really weak right hand or something.
Like there is some like argument to be made.
You should like balance it up.
You need to do a bit of philosophical work
to be a more well-rounded thinker or something.
Like presupp picks at that kind of scab.
If you've never done any philosophy before,
you're particularly vulnerable to this.
So like you can work out by doing a bit of philosophy,
reading a bit of stuff,
getting your philosophy game up a bit.
It'll just make you a more all-round kind of debater
or thinker or whatever.
So, and yeah, there is some kind of like legitimate critique
of people who are too one-sided anyway.
So I'm not saying it's nothing like
of any value in these questions.
If you bang on about logic all the time
and you've never, you don't know the difference
between realism and conventionalism,
intuitionism or something,
but you talk all the time about logic,
then there's something a bit weird about that
and you might want to look into it one day.
It doesn't mean you have to make your mind up completely.
It's just that there's something out there.
There's philosophy overlapped with everything.
So if you don't know anything about it,
there's loads of the world you've never thought about before.
Anything.
You've just made a good case
on why people should get into philosophy.
And I over the years hope to be better acquainted
and read up on this.
I must admit, I'm not as into it.
It's not a topic I'm at.
Specifically, we all do it, but I'm saying the topic,
the specific, I'm going to go down into philosophy
as a study.
It's something I will be doing over time, I'm sure,
and it helps sharpen my mind.
I enjoy listening to some of the great minds
that are philosophical,
but I'm hoping and encouraging people
if this is your kind of schtick, get into it.
If you like what you heard, get into it.
If you already are in the ballpark,
then you already know what the game is.
So thank you so much.
Subscribe to his YouTube channel.
Or don't, it's up to you.
Or don't, it's up to you,
but you don't want to have eternal conscious torment.
And we know what happens if you don't subscribe.
So notice I just did a little sophistry there, I think.
Being manipulative a little.
Now, is there anything you want to say to our audience?
Is there anything they should subscribe to?
No.
No.
Thank you.
Again.
Cool.
It was enjoyable.
Thank you for having me.
You are a very fun and I really enjoyed thinking with you
and you helping me think about my own shortcomings,
my own places I haven't thought about
or potential places I need to think about
for my own future.
And thank you for being someone who's a good teacher.
I appreciate you.
That's a very nice thing to say.
So I really appreciate that.
Thank you very much.
Thank you, everybody.
Have a wonderful day.
Look forward to more content.
Subscribe to both of us.
So when he drops on a blue moon, another video,
you can check him out and let him know MythVision sent you.
Thank you so much and never forget,
we are MythVision.
