Go in the description, subscribe to the New Testament Review podcast with Ian Mills and
Laura Robinson. Ian Mills, New Testament podcast review, Q-Source. What the heck is going on with
the Q-Source? Sure, the Q-Source is a hypothesis to explain what we call the double tradition.
Double tradition are places where Matthew and Luke have high verbatim agreement. They're
telling the same story in all the same words, up to 40 words at a time verbatim agreement between
Matthew and Luke, strings of word for word agreement in a language that Jesus didn't speak
in a language that doesn't require word order. So they're not only using the same words, but
they're telling them, they're putting those same words in the exact same order. And so you need
some sort of literary explanation for how did Matthew and Luke do this? And there are two main
schools of thought. There are the two-source theory, which is confusingly also sometimes called the
four-source theory, but they have the same explanation for this double tradition that's
Matthew and Luke verbatim agreement. And there is the Farer theory, or the Farer-Golder theory,
or the Farer-Golder-Goodacre hypothesis, which are all the same thing, which says that Luke is
reading Matthew. There aren't many other explanations that have current advocates. There are a few,
you know, the scattering of scholars who think Matthew might have read Luke, but I think there
are very good reasons to dismiss that. And not many scholars have been persuaded of that position.
And it's hard to imagine other explanations. There are a few scholars who have said Luke used
Matthew and also Q existed. But I think that is just a sort of fundamental confusion about how we
do history and why, what would justify positing a hypothetical source and what we would even mean
by Q. So the Farer theory that Luke read Matthew doesn't deny that there were hypothetical sources.
There were sources underlying the Gospels. It is totally possible that Matthew got the double
tradition from a literary source. But that isn't the same thing as the Q theory, where you can use
these verbatim agreements between Matthew and Luke to reconstruct the contours of a discrete
source, a discrete text. So we've done that down for people like me. You're saying that
there were sources possibly used and likely used. However, it's not that this is a gospel,
like a Q source. It's not like another version of Mark with just saying, so to speak. It could
have been like the same way Mark might be using Hebrew scripture, bear using something maybe
else, but it's not a gospel. So the Q source is, so there's 220 some, it's 220 some verses
between Matthew and Luke, where we have high verbatim agreements. And it's mostly sayings
material. The narrative introductions are these sayings. Most of the miracles and stuff
isn't double tradition. It's mostly sayings material with this sort of narrative introduction,
because we have to explain the overlaps of the teaching of John the Baptist
and the temptation narrative and a few other things. And so Q theorists, two source theorists,
believe that we have this sort of pattern of relationships of the Gospels that we can use
to reconstruct a particular saying source. And then we can go back and look and reconstruct the
theology of that hypothetical document. So fair theorists are totally open to the possibility
that people who believe Luke read Matthew that there were other Gospels written. Luke refers to,
you know, multiple Gospels that he's using as a source in his prologue in Luke chapter one.
We think those are probably Mark and Matthew, but might even have been other ones? Absolutely.
We have all sorts of fragments from Oxyricus and elsewhere of other Gospels that don't survive.
I spend a lot of my time working on those. We have attestations to other Gospels, people discussing,
quoting, citing, even writing commentaries on Gospels that don't survive. That's the topic
of my dissertation. So sure, there were there were definitely other Gospels, and it's totally
possible that Luke and Matthew have some of those as their source. What the fairer theorists are saying
is that there is no good reason to believe Luke was ignorant of Matthew, and therefore no good
reason to reconstruct I political Q. In fact, it's a little bit stronger than that. We would say
there are very good reasons to believe that Luke was reading Matthew.
Interesting. And you personally are in that school of thought, right?
You work with Dr. Goodacre. He's my advisor. This is this is awesome, by the way. He did a great show
on MythVision podcast on this topic. And you also, and we're going to be getting into, I think,
fragmentary Gospels, things that you say like you really are interested in that blow this away.
Does any of that play a role? Some people have tried to argue that. Some people have argued,
Helmut Kester has argued that we have second century attestation, or second century support
for the reconstructed Q, that there are other Gospels and gospel traditions that sort of reflect
what scholars would reconstruct Q to be using Matthew and Luke. I don't think those arguments
have been persuasive, and I don't think most people have found that to be very compelling.
Partially because people in the second century are quoting Gospels so loosely,
and when you write a new text, you're going to be adapting your sources. And usually a more
parsimonious explanation is that folks like Justin Martyr are quoting Luke or Matthew
just sort of fluidly, just sort of they're not particularly interested in the precise
wording of these texts. They're interested in the point. And so when they quote them,
they end up sort of meshing them together. And that usually is a sort of, that usually is a
more plausible, because we think we have good reason to believe these texts existed before
Justin as discreet, identifiable texts. It's usually more plausible to see Justin is just
citing that. Interesting. This whole thing, I'm still wrapping my head around this, and I've
got a lot of friends, scholars that are Q source proponents. What would you say, and this is,
you probably don't get this question often, what would you say are the weak points of the Q,
or the fairer hypothesis, the good acre hypothesis? Sure, the weak points in the fairer theory.
The strongest argument, so far as I can tell, for the two source theory is unpicking.
Unpicking is a sort of way of formalizing alternating primitivity. So let me back up
just one second here. If Luke read Matthew, then we should expect Luke to always seem secondary to
Matthew. If we have the same form of both sayings, we could expect Luke to look
like a slightly later version of Matthew. We should expect Matthew to look more primitive,
is the language that's used. And the problem with this, of course, is when we were talking about
texts written at the end of the first century, beginning of the second century, how on earth
are we supposed to figure out what is or isn't more primitive? Most people agree that Luke,
a lot of the times, looks less primitive. This is uncontroversial. Both sides agree about this.
Luke often cleans up the language, has a sort of more variegated vocabulary, will sometimes
often cleans things up to reflect a sort of delayed eschatology, a sort of realization that
the world isn't immediately ending. And this is uncontroversial between two-source theorists
and fairer theorists. But two-source theorists will want to add to this and say there is also evidence
examples where Matthew looks later than Luke. I mean, the classic examples of this are blessed
to the poor versus blessed to the poor in spirit. Luke has blessed to the poor, and Matthew has
blessed to the poor in spirit. Also, the finger of God by the power of God, we see between the
two Gospels, and I don't think either of these arguments work. Luke is very interested in the
plight of the poor and the marginalized, where it is totally plausible in light of the other ways he
changes Mark and the things he emphasizes in Acts that he would take blessed in the poor spirit
in Matthew and make that blessed in the poor. Okay, but the thing I was going to talk about was
this unpicking argument, and we did a podcast on this about Downing's argument for unpicking.
And the argument is that it is implausible that Matthew,
it is implausible that Luke would come along and read and find in Matthew, take just the bits
that are methane additions to Mark and recontextualize them. Others, you have to imagine Matthew,
Luke reading through Matthew, and isolating those parts of stories that Matthew, where Matthew is
copying of Mark, isolating those parts of stories, decontextualizing them and incorporating them in
new places in his gospel. Because to do that, you would not only need to be writing your own gospel,
but as you're doing that, you need to be comparing Matthew to Mark, crossing out the bits in Matthew
that are in Mark, and then taking those parts of the story and recontextualizing them. And this,
I think, is the best argument I've ever seen for the two-source theory.
Wow, that gets pretty deep.
Yes, and I think it's been compelling, as shown by Ken Olson and others, that unpicking doesn't
happen. That when Luke recontextualizes these methane additions, Francis Watson has shown
he often takes over the stuff, the Mark and Context, at least hints of the Mark and Context,
which is exactly what you would expect him to do if he's finding this material, not in Q,
but in Matthew, which has added it into Mark. And several of the other most famous cases Ken
Olson has shown are not actually examples of unpicking.
And I think the basis of this whole thing is Mark and Priority, which is a given, right?
Are there any serious scholars in the world that are in academic circles that actually
believe in not the Priority of Mark?
I'm sure there are serious theologians. I'm sure there are people who spend time being
serious in other parts of the academy, or during writing other kinds of history,
that think methane priority is a serious possibility, or advocate methane priority.
What there aren't are people who publish on the synoptic problem, mainstream scholars of
the Gospels who advocate anything other than Mark and Priority.
There was a movement in the 1960s that lasted up until the 1980s that advanced,
what's called the Griesbach hypothesis, William Farmer and his disciples,
who argued that Matthew was the first Gospel that argued in favor of the Mark and Conflator
hypothesis, that Mark was last. But these have mostly died out or disappeared
scholarship for the last at least 40 years has been dominated by people who believe in
Mark and Priority. Despite differences on almost everything else, the arguments in favor of Mark
and Priority are so compelling that it's really hard to find anyone who disagrees with Mark and
Priority, who is does peer reviewed scholarship on the synoptic Gospels.
Let me ask you one more, because this is actually not, this wouldn't be an academic question
that you guys really deal with in the terms of the textual evidence. But if we said,
all right, we don't even have the Gospels in front of us, and we aren't even looking at them,
and we were looking at church history. And we looked at Eusebius's quotations of Papias,
and we were trying to say, okay, we're trying to get the earliest church fathers recognition
of these texts. Which one does the church say came first? What's our Hebrew version of Matthew
that came first, according to the church? Or was Mark, and they just have the chronology correct?
This is really hard to tell. So okay, what is absolutely true is by the time you get
to, I mean, by the time you get to Eusebius, for sure, I'm an Augustan, people like that,
they believe in methane priority. So they believe Matthew wrote his gospel in Hebrew,
which is almost certainly not true, and there's very good reasons to believe it's not true.
Matthew was a disciple of Jesus, and wrote his gospel in Hebrew, he came first, and subsequently,
Mark, Luke, and John were written. It is not clear that Papias believes this, and Papias is the source
of these traditions. And this is what's the complicating factor is Clement, Eusebius,
they're just getting this information from Papias, and then sort of working it out from there.
And Papias presents Mark first. He doesn't say Mark was written first, but it is curious
that he says Mark was a hero of Peter, and wrote down the teachings out of order. And Matthew
put them in order, or he put them in the correct order, but wrote in Hebrew and was
translated into Greek. So there's a couple things in play there. First of all, this may be a memory
of marketing priority, although I need to emphasize that Papias doesn't say so explicitly.
But more importantly, it is where the tradition of Hebrew Matthew comes from, is this Papias thing.
But Papias himself doesn't have Hebrew Matthew, right? He has all these different Greek copies,
and because he believes Matthew wrote it, well, it must have been written in Hebrew,
because we can explain how Mark ends up in Greek, because it's not written by Peter,
but if it's written by a disciple of Jesus, it must have been written in Hebrew. And so,
and these are his apparently Papias' justifications for writing his own work, the exegesis of the
sayings of the Lord, or the Domenical Oracles, if you want to take Stephen Carlson's reading of this.
So, Papias himself doesn't seem to have any direct knowledge of Hebrew Matthew, and yet he
is where that whole tradition that becomes formative for the whole church's account of
the origin of the Gospels is rooted in Papias. And there are other good reasons to be skeptical
of Papias having any direct knowledge of what the disciples were up to.
Papias confights the two Philips. There's a Philip disciple of Jesus, and there's a Philip,
a Greek in Hierapolis with daughters in the letter of Acts, or in the book of Acts,
and he combines these Philips. So, between that and Hebrew Matthew, there doesn't seem to be good
reason to think that Papias is in fact in touch with where these texts originated.
I think it's interesting too for the inerraness, the people who believe that there's no errors here,
that Papias looks at the chronology of Marcus as well. He jotted down the truth, but he got it
all in the wrong order, and then Matthew says, well, it was correctly in the right order except
the translators goofed up the details, will they translate?
Inerraness have different ways of explaining this. We're talking about this, but it is
uncontroversial. It is undeniable that the synoptics tell the same stories in different
orders, and this sometimes bleeds through into their narrative. So, Luke moves the rejection
in Nazareth earlier in his story. He moves it to the beginning of Jesus' ministry to Luke 4.
And it's in his source that comes after Jesus has been in Capernaum,
and then Jesus goes to Nazareth and they say, do for us the wonders you did in Capernaum.
But in Luke, he hasn't been to Capernaum yet, and so Luke keeps this note that only makes sense
in his literary source. And of course, fatigue in the synoptics, Mark Goodicker's article,
gives other interesting cases of this. The feeding at Bethsaida happens in the wilderness
in Mark, happens in the desert. Luke moves that into the fishing village of Bethsaida,
but preserves the comment, go out into the neighboring villages and countryside
to get food for we are here in a deserted place. But in Luke, they're not in a deserted place.
They're in a major fishing village. So, there's a sort of preservation of source usage of
the different orders it was in different gospels. And then, of course, John is a whole other creature.
I mean, John moving the temple to the beginning of the ministry.
There's tons of examples of this in John. So, well, I mean, John doesn't have a lot of overlap.
John has mostly different stories. So, there's tons of examples of this in the synoptics,
and then John is a radically different creature in that we get whole different stories told.
I have a question pertaining to Q, because we were at a show just a little bit for fun.
I enjoy it. And that's how I knew you. I knew you'd enjoy that as well.
What do you see scholarship in the next 20, 30, 40 years on this Q source hypothesis?
What do you see happening? Do you think there's going to be a takeover at some point on Goodacre's
bearer, etc.? Mark Goodacre has done a remarkable job of making this view much more mainstream.
If you went back to when he began his career, the fair theory was idiosyncratic. He was associated
with Michael Golder, who is a brilliant scholar, was a brilliant scholar, but had all sorts of
absolutely out there ideas. He once published a piece arguing that Paul was the beloved disciple
in the Gospel of John. Go figure. Yeah, I mean, nobody takes it seriously. It's a wonderful
piece to look at how someone brilliant can come up with absolutely baffling ideas.
So, unfortunately, for the fair theory, which was named after Austin Ferrer, who was a famous
theologian at Oxford, did C.S. Lewis' funeral. He was a friend of C.S. Lewis. Unfortunately,
for the fair theory, it was associated with Michael Golder and sort of sidelined as one of
those eccentric ideas. And Mark Goodacre, in his Case Against Q book, which I've got up there
somewhere, and his other important articles, editorial fatigue, too good to be Q, has really
shifted the playing field. It is now probably something close to 50-50 or 40-60. The field
has drastically shifted towards the fair theory. And I think it will continue to shift. But, of
course, I'm partisan. I came to work with Mark Goodacre because I was totally persuaded of the
fair theory. And my undergraduate mentor, Melissa Salu, is a two source advocate. And I learned
that from her and adopted that position first, and then ended up shifting on that
in the course of my research. So, I think it's going to keep moving that way. But, you know,
we are making predictions. We'll have to see. I don't think that alternative theories are going
to be compelling. I have done a lot of work on the whole Marcian question. It's a huge part of my
dissertation. I've done a lot of work on the relevance of poppiest to this question and other
non-clinical Gospels. I've done what I feel to be sufficient inquiry into suggestions about
the earlyness of John or Luke being before Matthew. I just don't think those viewpoints
are going to get much traction in the field. And for good reason.
