Address James Hofmeier, Professor Hofmeier's view specifically, because we currently have
a couple people who are in the YouTube world that are using his work, or they fall in line
with Hofmeier's thesis on the Exodus. What are your major, I guess if I put my hand up,
it's five fingers, problems with his position? Yeah, that's a fair question. So Hofmeier
is a real scholar, he's a real archaeologist, and so he knows what he's talking about.
My criticism would be his general methodology. So what he does, and he picked this up from
previous, so he's an eminent evangelical scholar, Protestant evangelical,
and he picks up his methodology from I think one of his teachers who was Kenneth Kitchen,
who was a British evangelical scholar, and Kitchen I think picked it up from other people.
So what they tend to do is, first they start with the presumption that the Bible is inerrant.
Okay, so that's a starting point. It's certainly not the starting point that I start with, or that
other scholars in universities, research universities, or liberal arts colleges start with,
but it's where evangelicals start. So already you know that the inquiry is going to be
shaped around the concept of biblical inerrancy. So how do you demonstrate the truth of biblical
inerrancy? Well what Hofmeier does, and what Kitchen does, and other evangelical scholars do,
is they pick and choose historical details, details of historical reality from texts or
from archaeological evidence, that in some ways illustrates the idea that the Bible is inerrant.
So for example, if the Bible says that the Israelites built Pytham and Ramses,
okay, when they were slaves in Egypt. So people like Hofmeier and Kitchen will say, oh well look,
here's evidence that the city of Ramses really existed, and it existed this particular time
period, and therefore the story is true. In other words, it's like going, I mean in my critique,
I would say that's the same argument as saying that, you know, a Shakespeare play about Julius
Caesar that has a historically accurate detail about ancient Rome, let's say, you know, they wore
togas. The fact that they're wearing togas in this play doesn't mean that the play is historically
accurate in all of its details. It's only historically accurate in some of its props.
You see what I mean? Right. So they're pointing to different details that are like
props in a theater production, and they're saying, yeah, let's look at this prop. Yeah,
the city of Ramses really existed and existed at the right period, so therefore everything else is
true. That's a fallacious argument. I could tell you lots of stories that are totally not true,
but throw in some props that look real, or that are real. So what Kitchen and Hofmeier don't do
is look at the details that aren't historical. You know, they leave all that out because
they're incapable of looking at those details because of their commitment to the Bible being
in errands. I think you said that really. This is what they do, and so you can fill a book with
little details about where the city of Ramses was and what the name of Pitham is actually
an Egyptian word, per attum. You can do all this sort of stuff, which shows that the background
detail, or some of the background details in the story, are historically accurate and may even
evince historical memories that come from that period. That makes me wonder just the
loan word question, if you will. How do you address that? Are there biblical loan words?
Some people will go, that's clearly a sign. I mean, they're being conquered and ruled by Egypt,
so I could see the language being necessary to know in order to court. I've got to talk to you,
man, so you've got to know something from Egypt. This is something that Kitchen and
Hofmeyer do all the time, too. They'll say, well, look, this word for linen is an Egyptian word.
Well, yes, that's absolutely true. Egypt was, as I said, a major superpower and economic power.
To this day, we talk about really nice sheets being made of Egyptian cotton.
They're expensive. So linen in the ancient world, I don't know much about it, but maybe the good
stuff came from Egypt, and it's an Egyptian word. That means nothing about any particular story
or episode in which Egyptian linen is mentioned. Similarly, a lot of words in Hebrew, the words
for ink and pen are Egyptian loan words. Well, that's interesting, and this arguably stems from
the period of the Egyptian Empire and Cayman. Every bureaucracy operates by paperwork,
and the same was happening in the Egyptian Empire, where you had Egyptian scribes using papyrus and
pens and inks and so forth. And so it's kind of natural that the Egyptian words for those things
would have been borrowed into Hebrew at the time and became the standard words for pen and ink.
Interesting. So you can infer certain historical processes behind some loan words and things.
You know, if loan words are borrowed in a certain domain and not in other domains,
you can sort of say, oh, well, you know, there's connection there.
But none of that has anything to do with whether the Exodus story in the Bible is
inerrant. I love this. I want to poke. It's a non sequitur kind of argument that these people use.
What do you say to someone who says, well, Potiphar is an Egyptian name, and the way that the
narrative plays it. He has a wife, they have a slave in the house, and it plays out almost like
what would really happen in ancient Egypt. Like they know too much. How do you address that?
Yeah. Well, if you're talking about a guy who's in Egypt in your story, you want to have a
word for the master of the house that sounds Egyptian. You do that today. You know, let's say
in a movie, you've got some, you know, German guy, a foreigner. Well, what you do in movies is you
have him speak with an English accent. And that's how you know he's a foreigner. You know, you have
devices to communicate that this is a foreigner. And so in the story, you have the Egyptian master,
and so you give him an Egyptian name, or the name that sounds Egyptian, doesn't even have to be a
real Egyptian name. It just has to sound Egyptian. So if you have, you know, a Russian spy, you name
him Boris. Okay, Boris and Natasha. It doesn't mean that the story of Boris and Natasha originated
in Russia, or the Soviet Union. It just means that you know some Russian names that you give the
characters in your story. So it's a meaningless inference. I mean, to say that it's an Egyptian
name means nothing as in respect to the historicity of the events. You and I can think of names like
that ourselves. I just thought of Boris and Natasha. And I know nothing about Russian spy craft.
Yeah, or Juan and Lopez, you know, or something from down in this, you know, some Spanish, right.
If you're an ancient Israelite, and you don't know any Egyptian names, then you're sort of an idiot.
Interesting. It sounds to me there's tension there, though. Professor Hofmeier, is it because
do you think that his presupposition of this inerrancy has caused him to view you in a certain
respect for that? I mean, it's obvious. Anyone who, well, I mean, you can tell me within that
community, if you critique people who are using inerrancy as biblical inerrancy as part of their
methodology, you're going to say, well, you're the devil's spawn or something like that.
That's part of the discourse. So he's like me. I mean, I don't know why he doesn't like me personally,
but he's angry when I say things like that.
