Professor Francesca Stavrakapoulou addresses a super chat question that is actually pertinent to the issue right now
with Dr. David Faulk, the Egyptologist, with his misogynistic rant and
This isn't the first time and it won't be the last time that someone is obviously envious of how far someone succeeds and
Can't stand their word. Why?
Well in this video when she brings up the fact that she's a woman and she's an atheist
She's not a believer. You're gonna realize that this is stuff
We're gonna get until people start to break away from this fundamentalist world view
And now you know why MythVision's on a mission
Check out the video get a copy of her book. This is how we show her that her work her actual work judging her on her work
Is fantastic
Scholar vid throughout your career you have experienced significant pushback from the universities where you've taught against some of
Where you have taught against some of the hypotheses you've put forth is that true and I'm gonna put your book up while you're doing stuff
So and I've not had pushback from the universities. I've taught at in the UK
It's very different from the US in the US. There's a lot of places that teach, you know, they do biblical studies and stuff
Which are very confessional and so you kind of have to sign some face declaration before you can teach it
The UK is very different. It tends to be theoretically at least very secular
Um, I mean, obviously a lot of my colleagues are Christian or Jewish or Muslim or whatever
Um, so I've not had pushback from the universities. I have had pushback from students
I have had pushback from individual staff and colleagues. Um
But yeah, nothing that I can't handle
Um, so yeah, it's fine
Well, can you give us one example? Just uh, what's one that you would say is a big one that always comes up
I think the one that was always kinds of um has stayed with me is when I was very early in my t actually when I was teaching at oxford
Um, I taught there for two or three years when I was doing my postdoctoral work
And there was a theological training college that was kind of affiliated to the university
And I was giving the main university lectures on the Hebrew Bible
and the history of israel and that kind of thing um, and
I was told that I'd been blacklisted by students at this particular theological college because they felt that um
The a i was an atheist b. I was a heretic c, you know, blah blah blah blasphemy blah blah blah blah blah
All the usual stuff. Um, but that stayed with me because that was the first I was very early in my career
I didn't just finish my doctorate and I that was like I was like, why would you not come to the oxford university lectures?
Just because you don't like the woman. Oh woman
lecturing
Yeah, that's something I bet we could have a our conversation about your what your life in your career has been like as a woman
But uh, yeah, maybe we can cover that at some point. I love that
