Be sure to check out MythVisionPodcast.com.
Help MythVision grow guys, become a Patreon member.
You guys will get early access to all of my videos when I'm done editing them.
Also it's a small community where you guys can message me your questions and talk to
me in private.
You guys can donate also through PayPal, join our social media links down in the description.
We have Twitter and Facebook groups, help the community of MythVision grow.
Don't forget to subscribe to this channel, hit that bell button so you're notified every
time I do a live video and you don't miss any of my content.
Like this video and comment your thoughts below because I want to know what you think
about all of these things.
People like to tell their conversion stories, well I'm going to tell my deconversion story.
The book of Psalms indicates that much of the Old Testament is a mere story handed down
from old.
I will open my mouth in a parable, I will utter dark sayings of old, which we have heard
and known, and our fathers have told us.
The text goes on to speak of the patriarch Jacob, the plagues against Egypt, the parting
of the Red Sea, and manna in the desert.
These are, according to the Psalmist, a parable.
And a parable, as we know, is an allegory or a fable.
According to the New Testament, the entire Old Testament is a type of shadow.
So let's talk about this parable, metaphor, or myth.
Adam was the first man, or first son of God, being made in the image of God.
Adam wasn't the first human male, he was simply the first man to know Yahweh in an intimate
way.
However, Jesus was the only begotten son of God, made in the express image of God, the
firstborn of every creature.
Adam, Yahweh's first son, the human he had a covenant relationship with, fell from his
place of eminence with Yahweh.
He had been raised from a lowly spot in the dust, but he couldn't maintain his lofty
position.
And we know that he had to die for his sin because the wages of sin is death and the
soul that sins must die.
But did Adam die for his sin?
If so, when and how?
We all die a natural death, even those who claim to believe in Jesus and declare that
they will therefore never die, still die the way the character Adam died, a physical death.
But that biological death didn't pay for Adam's sin and it won't pay for any wrong we do.
Thus physical death is not the wage for sin.
Because Adam died without paying the price, who died for his sin?
Jesus, the other firstborn son, paid the debt.
He died because he took on the sin of Adam.
However, Jesus was supposedly innocent.
You can't kill an innocent man for the sins of a guilty one, that's immoral.
But as we'll see, Jesus wasn't innocent.
He wasn't innocent because he was Adam, the one with the personal relationship with Yahweh.
The word Adam means man or mankind.
According to the Bible, the sea was full of people.
And the land as well was inhabited by people called living creatures, cattle, beasts and
creeping things.
These were humans who were ignorant of Yahweh.
The book of Enoch makes extensive use of animals to represent people.
Jesus, being the son of man or the son of Adam, was accountable for Adam's sin.
After Jesus, who was actually Adam, and he was the last Adam, no more atoms could be born.
Adam died when Jesus died and dead men don't procreate.
As a side note here, Adam's cursed died with him.
So while Christians claim to be cursed in Christ, that's impossible.
Now if Adam can be more than one person, who actually sinned?
Who was responsible for all the blood shed on the earth?
Jesus said Israel was the guilty party.
He blamed Israel for the death of Adam's son Abel.
At least Israel had to pay for it.
Now tell me, why would the children of Abraham be culpable for Cain's sin?
They weren't even descendants of Cain.
They came through Adam's son Seth.
Nevertheless, who died for the sin?
Israel died.
Jesus told the Jews their house will be left desolate to them in that first century CE.
Why?
Because just as Jesus was Adam, so was Israel.
Thus Israel was also Jesus.
Yahweh said, Israel is my son, even my firstborn.
So like Adam, Israel was the firstborn son of Yahweh.
Yahweh had three firstborn sons, Adam, Israel, and Jesus.
If they were all firstborn, then they were all the same being.
So Israel died, but what or who was Israel?
The Bible is a spiritual book.
Its focus is not really about physical aspects.
A nation's going down is not what is under consideration here.
Israel simply represented the people in a relationship with Yahweh.
People who had a responsibility to Yahweh because they were his children.
First Corinthians 15 declares that the natural man died.
So Adam died, Israel died, Jesus died, and the natural man died.
Adam was to die the day he sinned.
Jesus died the day he sinned, or the day he took the sin on the cross.
On the seventh day of the week, just as his father had done, Jesus rested.
He ceased his work on Friday, the sixth day.
The same day the man, Adam, was created, and he lay down to sleep in the heart of the earth.
He was buried, and he rested for the whole seventh day.
This is how Adam died on the same day that he sinned, fulfilling Yahweh's prophecy in
Genesis 2.17.
In a sense, although no man except Christ was truly in the image of Yahweh, nevertheless,
Jesus, Adam, in the beginning, was the Christ, having been the lamb slain from the foundation
of the world.
The man, Adam, of the Genesis account was indeed the image of Yahweh as Yahweh's firstborn
son.
Christ was the Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the ending, which is, and which was, and
which is to come.
He was the beginning and the end, the first and the last.
He was the first Adam, and he was the last Adam.
Jesus, Adam, Israel, the natural man, died and was buried.
Then came the resurrection.
Who rose from the grave, and when did this happen?
Jesus rose, of course, on the eighth day he was resurrected.
He had come into the city of Jerusalem on the first day of the week, and he rose from
the dead the next first day of the week, which was the eighth day.
What happens in Judaism on the eighth day?
A boy is circumcised.
The veil, or covering, is removed, and the resurrection of Jesus removed the veil that
hung over the people of Israel.
Isaiah 25.7 states, He will destroy in this mountain the surface of the covering that
covers all peoples, and the veil that is spread over all nations.
And verse 8 goes on to say that he has swallowed up death forever.
The veil the covering was removed in circumcision to symbolize the removal of the veil or removal
of blindness.
The first natural Adam was condemned and passed through the fire for refining, and the last
Adam Christ emerged from the dust victorious and righteous.
Jesus took the sin death of Adam, the natural man, upon himself, and the death of Adam was
abolished.
The partition between Yahweh and man was dissolved, and Yahweh and man became one, thus forming
the Christ or God man.
Besides being the firstborn son, Israel was also the mother of us all.
Yahweh planted his seed, his word, his son, into the virgin daughter Israel.
The word grew and produced fruit.
All things were made by Jesus in the beginning, but that simply means that Yahweh spoke.
And it was so, Jesus was the word or logos that Christians are to have in their hearts.
The word produced people who would serve Yahweh.
The natural woman, Israel, was unfaithful, had a fallen way like Adam, and was killed
as the law demanded, so that Yahweh could bring forth the spiritual woman, knew Israel
or knew Jerusalem.
The natural man had to die so that the spiritual man could be resurrected.
Hosea 6 1 says, Come, and let us return to the Lord, for he hath torn, and he will heal
us.
He hath smitten, and he will bind us up.
And verse 2 states, after two days will he revive us.
In the third day he will raise us up, and we shall live in his sight.
But 1st Quentin 15 4 says that it was Jesus who rose on the third day, according to the
Scriptures.
Hosea 6 2 is the only place this third day is mentioned, and it's talking about Israel,
again showing that Israel was Jesus, the firstborn son of Yahweh.
But Adam 2 was being resurrected because it was also Adam who died.
He failed to live up to his obligations to Yahweh, and had to be put to death.
It is Israel being resurrected because it is Israel who died.
It is Jesus being resurrected because it is Jesus who died.
It is the natural man being resurrected into a spiritual man.
Like Adam, while Jesus slept, his bride was formed from his side.
His shed blood produced his wife.
So 1st Quentin 15 is not about the resurrection of our individual bodies, which are in no way
vile or corrupt by the way.
It's about the plant and sprouting of the word of Yahweh.
This is what was rejected of men.
This is what was trampled.
This is what was crucified, and why it could be crucified afresh.
Nevertheless, according to the Bible, this word grew to fill the face of the earth with
fruit, as Yahweh said it would.
And that is why Christ, and the Kingdom, is said to be within you.
Jesus said that before Abraham was, he was, and how is that possible?
It's possible because Jesus was the Word.
As my son Seth said to me, the Word was God's only creating materials.
That was Yahweh's son, even if the immaculate conception were true.
So what?
How is Jesus a son of Yahweh any more than Adam was?
Making a child in Mary's womb is no different than making Adam from the dirt that Yahweh
had already made himself.
Anyway, doesn't the Bible say Yahweh nits all of us in the womb?
How are we different from Adam or Jesus if they were indeed real people?
Romans 1-3-4 states that Jesus was made of the seed of David according to the flesh,
and declared to be the son of God with power according to the spirit of holiness by the
resurrection from the dead.
Now some might say, but the spirit of the man Jesus was from God.
Well, if we have a spirit, when did it come?
From some other God?
Even if Yahweh were real but wasn't our Father, if He didn't put His spirit in us,
then we wouldn't be His children, and we would be under no obligation whatsoever to obey Him.
And there's another God running around out there, one who can make spirits or share His
spirit with human beings.
Yahweh built the world, His world, His people, with His Word.
His Word was His Son Jesus, but Yahweh's Word was His breath, His spittle.
A God doesn't have semen, and He didn't have a child by a human female.
Being the Word from the beginning, Jesus never changed.
Revelation 19-13 says His name is called the Word of God.
The Word became flesh in earthen vessels.
Yahweh's Word went forth, and accomplished what it was supposed to, not returning to
Him void.
The Son was the Word, and the Word was the seed.
Again, a God does not mate with humans, except He myths, of course.
All judgment was given to the Son, but Jesus said the Word would be the judge.
The Word went forth from Jerusalem.
The birth pains increased because of Jerusalem's sin.
Mother Israel even died in childbirth, but her child was not Jesus.
It was the remnant of her seed which had the testimony of Jesus Christ.
Just like Adam was simply a metaphor for the Christ, or the anointed people of Yahweh.
Yahweh planted His Word in the hearts of men and women, just as He said He would.
This is what was planted.
This is what died in the ground and sprouted.
And notice that 1 Corinthians 15 says the seed died after it was planted.
We don't bury living people.
They don't die in the ground.
This is the Word being planted in fertile hearts.
The fact that Jesus said a person would never die, if they believed in Him, is proof that
the persons to whom He was referring were not dead at that time.
If Adam and everyone in Him was already dead, when Jesus came onto the scene, Jesus could
not have been the Son of Man, or the Son of Adam.
Nor could His words here have made any sense.
Death was common and was imminent.
But it hadn't come for Adam when Jesus said this.
And if people got into Christ, they wouldn't die with Adam.
The Christ was being formed here.
To remind us what body sinned, Adam, what body was to pay for all the blood that was shed
on the earth, Israel, who died on the cross for the sins of the world, Jesus, who rose
out of the grave, every person who had been in Adam.
Jesus was Israel, and Israel was Adam.
Adam, Israel, Jesus, committed the sin and died for the sin.
This was the final demise of Adam.
At last, he returned to the dust, as you always said he would.
This was also when his eyes were opened.
He was no longer blind, and he no longer saw even in part.
The first Adam and the second Adam, the natural man and the spiritual man, merged together
in the Christ.
The Adam transformed into the Christ.
In Christ, a person is the image of God.
The apostle Paul said people were being changed into the image of Christ.
He said he was attempting to form Christ in his listeners, and that he himself had partially
attained both the death and the resurrection of Christ.
None of this is literal, as we all should understand.
Adam and Christ were one entity.
Adam's story from beginning to end, at least as interpreted from the New Testament, is
the Christ story.
And here is the significance of all of this.
If Christ emerged from the dead body of Adam, and Adam was Israel and the natural man, then
Christ wasn't a specific person any more than Adam was.
Jesus was slain from the foundation of the world.
The sin and the redemption happened simultaneously in the twinkling of an eye.
As time means nothing to a God, the story folds into itself.
It's an analogy.
It's the process of building a relationship between the sky God and the earth mother and
her children.
Heaven comes down and joins with earth.
That's the biblical story.
The letter kills.
But ancient people worshipped whatever made the crops grow.
Their heroes and their heroic deeds are about the natural world and the human condition.
They drew their characters and their narratives from nature, mainly from the heavenly bodies.
The sun logically drew their interest, and they worshipped it.
And why not?
The sun is life.
The sun walks on water.
The sun rides on the clouds.
The sun gives life and produces the harvest.
It's the light of the world.
It dies at the winter solstice to be reborn on December 25th.
The sun is both kind and cruel.
It rules the good day while the darkness governs the evil night.
It's no respecter of persons.
And I've lost my picture here I am.
It's dependable and faithful to rise every morning.
And if he turns his face from us, we die.
As Psalm 19 states, the heavens declare God's glory and his work, speech, and knowledge.
They are a voice that goes to the end of the world with nothing hidden from the sun.
The bridegroom coming out of his chamber.
The sun sees everything.
Sees you when you're sleeping, knows when you're awake, knows everything you do.
The Jews wrote myths about their God the same way as other groups of people did.
Even human beings in the Bible are sometimes actually sun gods.
Samson, for instance, his long hair was his rays of strength, which is why the cutting
of his hair weakened him.
Samson had seven locks of hair, obviously representing the perfect number.
Perfect because it was the number of the sun, moon, and the five non-planets.
When Samson lost his strength, because his hair got cut off, he was blind, representing
the sun and winter, when it loses its intensity or vigor by going down.
Darkness or blindness then prevails.
This symbolism is why the New Testament says a woman is the glory of her husband.
She reflects his light because as the moon, she has no light of her own.
Her hair, her rays, like Samson's, is her only glory.
As the bride, moon, would one day shine like the husband, sun, as she would be clothed
or covered with the sun.
She would reflect the sun's glory on the earth when the male and female were reunited or
when heaven came down to join the earth.
In 2 Kings 2, 23, 3, 24, we find Elisha's encounter with a bunch of children who come
out of the city to mock him by saying, go up, thou bald head, go up, thou bald head.
Elisha cursed the children at which point there came forth two she-bears out of the
wood and tore 40 and two children of them.
These children weren't just making fun of Elisha because he had no hair in the sense
that we would think about it.
That taunt wouldn't bother a man.
The children were telling Elisha he was weak and needed to go up, rise higher in the sky
get more rays on his head, gain some strength.
Elisha was, they thought, at winter, weak and needed to head toward summer, get higher
in the sky and gain power.
So he proved them wrong by putting a curse on them and killing them.
Strength and weakness in the Bible often relate to the sun and the solstices.
The father grows old and dies and then is reborn as his son.
The sun, as you win, is a golden child who is born in the midst of his enemies or in
the dark of winter, Christmas.
We know December 21st or 22nd is the shortest day of the year, but the sun seems to stand
still or be dead for three days and around the 25th it's reborn.
The ruler or power who attempts to kill the child represents the winter or darkness wanting
to quench the new light that threatens his reign.
The old year doesn't want to die.
The child is weak, but grows stronger, increases in wisdom, stature, etc.
Because he's feebled, the baby barely escapes with his life, but by spring he's strong
and he conquers his enemies, setting out on his way to the heights.
The hero in all the biblical accounts and other stories as well is always the dawn or morning
sun.
The superman who vanquishes the bad guy, Satan, Big Bad Wolf, Zombie, Vampire, Monster, Wicked
Witch, General Zod, Darth Vader, Scar, Nightwinter.
This battle motif begins early on in Genesis with the talking snake in the Garden of Eden.
Genesis 3.15 states, And I will put enmity between thee and the woman, and between thy
seed and her seed, it shall bruise thy head and thou shall bruise his heel.
This serpent who was to do battle with humans is Draco, or the dragon who resides in the
sky along with the constellation Hercules.
As Draco circles around the pole, his head is either below or above Hercules' heel.
The top position represents who's doing the bruising.
So either Draco is bruising the heel of Hercules, or Hercules is crushing Draco's head with
his foot.
Of course the sun god always wins the battle in the end, so we see the foot of Hercules
stepping on Draco's head, the dragon or snake whom Hercules has vanquished and Hercules
perpetually gloats over it for eternity.
The use of symbols and imagery such as plant and seeds in the earth or the sun's journey
across the sky is how these people toe their yarns.
We see the sun battle motif being used in the New Testament as well.
At the beginning of autumn we see Scorpio in the sky, he's the Judas, or kiss of death
to the sun.
After this the sun falls below, crosses or passes over the equator.
It continues to fall until December 22nd at which point it is still, as far as we can
tell, in the southern cross.
The sun refuses to move at all through December 23rd and 24th.
Thus it is dead for three days.
If a person is dead for three days, he is positively, absolutely, undeniably and reliably
most sincerely dead.
If he comes to life again at this point, he has resurrected or been born again.
And the sun, of course, not only rises on the third day, but also ascends into or returns
to heaven.
As passing over, the equator is passed over.
So in the spring, Jews celebrate the sun with this feast and Christians celebrate Easter,
which is why they get up early to see the sunrise.
The spring, as we know, brings revitalization of life.
While we might not have noticed this, children, the Little Red Riding Hood story was written
to symbolize the daily or yearly event of the sun's fight with darkness.
The weak little girl, red evening sun or late fall sun, who comes to comfort the old
grandmother who is the earth, finds the grandmother swallowed by the big bad wolf, night or winter.
But when the big strong woodsman, bright morning sun or spring sun arrives, he cuts open the
big bad wolf and lets out the grandmother.
Even the tell of Cinderella is a son myth.
Cinderella was ragged and dull, him behind her sister's clouds, an evil stepmother night.
But the prince, the morning sun, took her as his bride and she became the beautiful
adored one.
In one version of this story, pigeons peck out the eyes of the wicked stepsisters and
they live as blind beggars while Cinderella spends the remainder of her life in the lap
of luxury at the palace of the prince.
Does that sound familiar?
It should.
Y'all we found Israel in her blood, cleaned her up and put linen and silk clothes upon
her, along with bracelets and necklaces, gold and silver and even a crown.
All while he brought troubles and pain upon the nations who were Israel's enemies.
Isn't this also the Christian fable?
We are lost and undone, worthless and forgotten, but our shining prince comes riding in on
his white horse and rescues us.
And we, rather than our tormentors, are the special ones, the beautiful, glorious bride
of Christ decked out with gold and various jewels.
We rule in our golden kingdom alongside him and live happily ever after, forever and ever,
as we banish our tormentors and all other unworthies far from us in the darkness of
the dungeon.
The Israelite god is a sensual, heathen, pagan and of this world as the gods worship
by Israel's neighbors.
And it's just as much a fable or fairy tale as the ones written more recently.
And the rituals and icons used in the Judeo-Christian religions express this.
Even the obelisk or steeple on top of a church building is pagan.
The building represents Christians or the female aspect of Christ.
It is the wife of Christ.
The attached steeple is the penis of Christ, which has entered the female body to dwell.
Actually Christ was the little head, the son, S-O-N, the junior, the fruit, spit,le, words,
semen that shot forth from the Father.
The point at the end, the head of the corner, the capstone of the shaft.
While we may shrink back from such thoughts, this was standard for fertility cults.
Even the fish symbol is sexual.
It's the vesica piscus, or vessel of the fish.
The word for fish and room were the same in ancient Greek.
Christians later turned the symbol 90 degrees
and used it as their symbol, thus displaying a symbol
for female anatomy and reproduction.
This was the very sign of the great mother.
But back to Adam and Jesus.
Jesus is called the bright and morning star.
The bright and morning star is, of course, Venus.
Isaiah 14-12, speaking of Venus, states,
How art thou fallen from heaven, O Lucifer,
Son of the morning? How art thou cut down to the ground?
I told you Jesus fell.
I told you he went down into the ground.
Being the morning star, Jesus is recognized as Lucifer,
who fell from heaven.
He is both sinner and saint, both Adam and Christ,
the one who must die and the one to be resurrected.
A body is composed of both torso and limbs
and everything connected to the torso and head.
Just as the Adam who went down into the grave
had his head on his body, the person coming up out of the ground
had both body and head.
People seem to think of Christ as being up in heaven,
sitting next to Yahweh, with his body walking around headless,
down here.
But that body that rose in 1 Corinthians 15
was the whole Christ, both body and head.
Again, this Christ isn't a particular person.
The word Christ simply refers to one who is anointed.
It's similar to the word Messiah,
which is used in the Old Testament to refer to kings.
David used it when speaking of King Saul.
In my studies, I came to the conclusion
that the Bible's message for us as humans is enlightenment,
coming of age or growing up and learning the difference between good and evil
and also how to be a man rather than an animal or a beast.
The point is to kill the beast or the natural man
and become a resurrected or spiritual man.
And I think this is repeated in various ways throughout the Bible.
There is a natural body, Adam.
That Adam is to be crucified or destroyed
so that the new Adam, the anointed man, the Christ,
the spiritual body can rise.
That is the crucifixion of the Son of Man,
not the Son of God.
It's a spiritual or psychic event.
Of course, upon this crucifixion and resurrection,
the person becomes a child or son of God
and a new man, an anointed man, a Christ.
The head and the body are connected.
My body is me and my head is me.
If I am the body of Christ, then I am Christ.
The head can't stay to the feet.
I have no need of you.
Without a body, what good is the head anyway?
When I discovered this narrative was an allegory
and fabricated by human beings to teach a lesson,
I began to look more critically at the Bible.
At the character of Yahweh and the contradictions in the text.
At how and when the book was put together and by whom.
At other godness and how they resemble the Yahweh story,
even the dying and rising gods.
The Bible itself destroyed my faith
as it fell apart before my eyes.
And what I later discovered
confirmed what I had ascertained from the Bible.
Yahweh is simply a tribal god,
the pagan god of Israel, a character in the story.
Stories such as his abounded in the ancient world.
And they were, as we have seen here, based on nature.
Remember when I said that little red riding hood in Cinderella
have a deeper meaning than what's on the surface?
We heard these stories as children,
but we couldn't discern their significance.
We were a child, so we thought like a child
and we understood like a child.
But when we became a man,
when we became men and women,
when our eyes were opened,
when the veil fell away,
we put away childish things.
We stopped fearing the monster under the bed.
We no longer expected Santa Claus to come down our chimney.
And we quit needing a headmaster to tell us what to do.
As adults, we direct our own steps.
And whatever we do is on us.
We can't blame it on the devil
or shove it onto a Christ or a savior.
We slay our own dragons, or they slay us.
Listen.
Prince William doesn't play cricket with Prince Charming.
The Duchess of Cambridge doesn't sit down to tea with Cinderella.
And a true god doesn't do battle with fake gods.
If Molek and Belle, gods whom Yahweh thought aren't real,
we ought to assume the same about Yahweh.
When your god interacts with fictitious gods
as Yahweh did in the Old Testament,
you can be sure your god is just as bogus as the others.
If it looks like a duck, swims like a duck,
and quacks like a duck, it's a duck.
Thank you for listening. Bye.
