Be sure to check out MythVisionPodcast.com.
Help MythVision grow guys, become a Patreon member.
You guys will get early access to all my videos when I'm done editing them.
Also it's a small community where you guys can message me your questions and talk to
me in private.
You guys can also donate through PayPal and Cash App.
Join the social media links down in the description.
We have Twitter, Facebook, all sorts of social media.
Help the community of MythVision grow.
Hit the subscribe button, hit that bell so you guys are notified every time I do a live
video and you don't miss any of my content.
We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
Your host Derek Lambert.
Today is a serious present for you guys.
We're recording right after Thanksgiving.
This kind of might be an early Christmas present for most of you guys.
But on MythVision Podcast, we've been exploring tons and tons of information, biblically related,
mythology related, and trying to understand the New Testament, Old Testament, and other
mythologies.
Well, today, you're going to really want to pay attention because it's going to get
a little bit complex at times.
Dr. Dennis R. MacDonald, he's joining us today.
And he earned his undergraduate degree from Bob Jones University, a master of divinity
from a Cormac Theological Seminary and a PhD from Harvard University.
He taught Christian origins at the Eilif School of Theology in Denver, Colorado.
From 1980 to 1998, since 1998 to present, he has been the John Wesley, or was the John
Wesley Professor of the New Testament at Claremont School of Theology and Professor of Religion
at the Claremont Graduate University.
He also was the director of the Institute for Antiquity and Christianity at Claremont.
Seriously, go down in the description.
I am asking you guys to really get into this.
This is something I'm into.
And I started reading the Dianne Nice and Gospel.
Have you ever wondered what the Johannine tradition might have used, maybe Euripides
the Bacchae as a source in developing the Johannine Gospel, Dionysus and Jesus having
comparison, making Jesus better than Dionysus?
This goes deep.
This is a very, very good book.
Dr. Robert M. Price said you guys really need to read this book.
And I definitely recommend it.
Go down in the description.
Today we're going to be touching on this one specifically from the earliest Gospel,
Q plus, to the Gospel of Mark, pretty much the lost Gospel, Luke and Virgil, okay?
This is going into the imitations of classical Greek literature in the Gospels.
I know that for a lot of you, you may not even know what this is.
Trust me.
Look it up.
And then I had a few tears drop at the end at the end of this book.
I'm not even kidding you.
I cracked a few tears reading, mythologizing Jesus from Jewish teacher to Epic hero.
Dr. Dennis R. McDonald.
And I ask you to go read these things because they're so fascinating showing Greek poetry
as a potential source.
What were the Gospel authors really trying to do?
Write actual history or some type of poetic mythology imitating Greek literature.
What is Q?
Why does it matter?
Your position is called Q plus, Papias Hypothesis or Pap age.
What does this mean?
So I guess what is Q to start with?
And then like Q and then there's Q plus.
Can you give us a little bit of background to this?
And then I'm following your lead.
Actually, I want to give you a lot of background on this and I'll answer that question and more.
I'm sure.
But first, Derek, I want to set up the problem of this, the so-called synoptic problem.
Actually, there are two problems that still beset the interpretation of the canonical
Gospels after two millennia.
One is the so-called synoptic problem, which is the literary connection among Mark, Matthew
and Luke.
The other is the Johannine problem, which is the relationship of the fourth Gospel, not
only to the Johannine epistles and the apocalypse of John, but also to itself insofar as it
has at least three stages of composition that are identifiable.
Today we're going to talk about the synoptic problem, but maybe in the future we can talk
about the Johannine problem, or the Dionysian Gospel, if you want.
The synoptic problem now is a pitched battle between two competing visions of synoptic
intertextuality.
The one argues, in both of the primary positions, hold to what we call mark and priority.
That is, among the three synoptic Gospels, Mark is the earliest and was independently
used by Matthew and Luke.
These combatants today also agree in Luke and posteriority, that is, that Luke is the
last of Luke's acts, is the last of the Gospels to have been lived.
The big controversy has to do with places where, and there are lots of them, Matthew
and Luke agree with each other against Mark, and some would say it means that Luke knew
Mark and Matthew.
Others would say Luke did not know Matthew, and therefore they both must have known the
same lost source, which is called Q, from the German word Kavala, meaning source.
The pitched battle then is between those who deny the existence of Q, the far hypothesis
and your friend in mind, Mark Goodacre and company, and the two-document hypothesis, which
is advocated by another friend of mine, John Plouppenborn, and they're very happy to fight
it out over whether Luke knew Mark and Matthew.
Now both of those positions, however, have problems, and I have the audacity to think
that I had solved the synoptic problem and the Johnian problem, and I so much appreciate
the opportunity to tell you how that works.
When the two-document hypothesis people go about their task of reconstructing Q, their
first task is to eliminate Mark and influence, because if Matthew and Luke independently
used Mark, then places where they have common information may have come from Mark.
Then they, in considering Luke and Matthew separate independent texts, they use something
that's been called alternating primitivity.
In some cases, Matthew is more primitive, in other cases, Luke is more primitive.
By comparing the two, and it's very scientific and sophisticated, they're able to reconstruct
the document that we know is Q, and the most important product of the International Q
Project is the so-called critical addition of Q.
And that's the Q that most people know, or either to affirm or to deny.
Both of those positions, however, have serious problems, and the Q plus papious hypothesis
is an attempt to correct the problems.
I'll get to the problems in a moment, but Q plus refers to my reconstruction of Q, which
is half again as long as the standard Q, because I use different criteria, which I'll talk
about in a moment.
Papious is a part of the hypothesis, because I take very seriously the Eusebian fragments
about papious, from papious's exposition of Logia about the Lord, were written around
year 110, originally a five-volume work, which must have been a treasure trove, which survives
in only about 10 pages of recovered text from testimonial fragments.
That's a real pity.
One of the great losses of early Christian literature is papious's exposition.
The only more serious one seems to be the absence of a lost gospel.
Now, the two document hypothesis has two major flaws.
One is, there are simply too many examples of Luke's redaction of Matthew to justify
understanding them as independent.
Luke must have known Matthew, in this case the far hypothesis people are correct.
Furthermore, Luke likely knew papious's exposition, and if he did, because papious was so concerned
about Matthew as we'll see, he must have known of the existence of Matthew, and the researcher
that he was, he likely knew Matthew too.
After all, in his preface, he says many have undertaken to provide a next position of the
things that happened among us.
The second problem with the standard two document hypothesis is we have too many parallels between
the reconstruction of Q and Mark to think that they could be possibly independent.
This is even after you remove all mark and influence from Matthew and Luke ironically.
That's why a significant spinoff of the two document hypothesis is the modified two document
hypothesis, which affirms Q but insists that Mark knew it as well.
I could say that my hypothesis is more similar to that than any of the growing hypotheses
today.
But the far hypothesis has severe problems too.
First, as we'll see, there is lots of evidence that there was a lost gospel.
But even more so, even if Luke knows Matthew, Luke knows traditions and logics that are
more primitive than what we find in Matthew.
This is something that's called reversed priority, and my work requires reverse priority as its
primary criteria for assessing the gospel.
So whereas the two document hypothesis talks about alternating primitivity, I talk about
reversed primitivity or priority.
That is, we know that the Gospels are written as Mark, Matthew, Luke, all of the major dispute
agreements about that.
But sometimes Luke is earlier than Matthew or Mark, and sometimes Matthew is earlier
than Mark.
That's why there's been so much confusion in the synoptic problem, because you have
this phenomenally reversed priority.
Now then the question is how does one determine what is prior when you have two comparative
texts?
And so I list out a number of criteria that one can use for reverse priority.
The common sense is the most important criterion of all.
When you look at two texts, often you can tell which one is earlier than another.
Now the biggest contribution that the synoptic Gospels make to the lost gospel are doublets
and non-dublets.
I'm going to discuss those, but then I'm going to go back and talk about Cabeus.
I was going to say, just to give a recap, we interviewed Dr. Goodacre, and Dr. Goodacre
is in the fair hypothesis view.
He doesn't think there's Q, of course, and I don't want to get caught up on that because
we want to talk about what this hypothesis is and how it answers the synoptic problem
and whatnot.
I just want to mention for our audience that was really entertained by the interview that
we did with Dr. Goodacre, there will be a debate between you and him on this channel.
So you guys do want to stay tuned and pay attention to what Dr. McDonald is saying here, because
with Happiest, I'm going to suspect, and we're going to hold this question for later unless
you address it in thorough, like thoroughly address it to the best you can without everyone
wanting to go to sleep because it can get very deep.
When I was reading this, it's very complex and very interesting.
Happiest plays a huge role in this hypothesis.
So everyone who pays attention, I really want you to get what he's saying.
He's saying in simple terms like me, I have to hear things more than once to really get
them that Luke, which is way later than Mark, and we know Matthew is later than Mark, has
stuff that is older than Mark in it.
And you have to ask yourself, why?
Why is, where are they getting the older material from?
Did they just make it up?
Did they pretend, you know what, let's make the sound older.
That seems like Occam's razor doesn't really fit that argument, in my opinion.
What's stronger is there's a source of some sort that they're pulling from.
And so Dr. McDonald goes into a lot and while reading your book is very deep, especially
the master synopsis here that I'm reading, it's like goes from English and then Greek.
And I'm like, okay, I got to Google what that Greek word is.
So you're dealing with somebody who is a serious PhD in this area and do not take him lightly.
So I'm interested in hearing, I'm sorry to cut you off, doublets and non-doublets and
the progressive of that thought, I want to know what a doublet is.
I don't even know what, you know, if you were to break it down for me, I'd love to know
in our audience as we go, because some of these terms will be understood by some and
some of them may not be understood like me.
I'm ignorant on a lot of this stuff and I would just like to learn more.
So I'll be quiet.
Well, let's back up a little bit and talk about Papias.
Papias is writing around the year 110 and he is by far the earliest and most important
witness to synoptic gospels.
But he's writing before the composition of Luke and John.
So he does not know those gospels.
That's almost certain.
But he does know three gospels.
He knows a gospel that likely is similar to our gospel of Mark and he knows two gospels
of Matthew.
One of them likely is our gospel of Matthew more or less, but the other is lost.
I want to read to you what he says about Mark, just a brief piece and then what he says about
Matthew and give you my interpretation of them and you're exactly right.
It is at the core of my understanding and by the way, I'm going to advertise another
book.
Two shipwreck gospels is the fat version of my argument and it's where I go into even
more detail in a granular assessment of the synoptics and has its own Greek synopsis embedded.
But also I want to advertise another book.
I'm working on and nearly done now with two mimetic synopsis.
The one is of four synoptic gospels, which includes my reconstruction of Pune, which
I call the Logoi of Jesus, which likely was its original title, and three gospels of John.
That is, I compare in parallel columns the three versions of the gospel of John going
from the Dionysian gospel to what I call the Jewish gospel, then to the gospel of the
beloved disciple.
But that's another story.
And here's what papias says about Mark.
Mark became Peter's translator.
Whatever Peter recalled or what was said or done by the Lord, Mark wrote down accurately,
though not in proper toxis, that is not in proper sequence.
For Mark himself neither heard the Lord follow him, but as I said, he later followed Peter,
who used to craft teachings for the needs of the occasion, not as though he were crafting
a sequential arrangement of the logia about the Lord, that is, the units of what Jesus
said or did.
So Mark was not in error by thus writing a few things as he remembered them.
Now Mark's, this is my word, Mark's order or talks of logia or toxis, accordingly need
not be authoritative for papias insofar as he merely translated into Greek a few things
as he remembered from Peter, what Peter had remembered and taught without regard for proper
sequence.
Obviously, John had compared Mark's few things with the larger work or works that presented
the logia in a different order.
This also attributed the following statement to the Elder John and this is crucial.
Matthew said in order the logia in the Hebrew language, but each hechistos translated them
as he was able, which indicates that they were flawed Greek translations.
The expression as he was able suggests that each translator mishandled Matthew's Hebrew
original and accurate sequence, a semitic version of Matthew likely never existed, but
if even if it did, papias by his own admission had no access to it, nor did the disciple
John.
John and papias thus had a synoptic problem.
Their three Greek gospels contained similar logia, but incompatible sequences.
And so far as the toxis of one order of parallel logia in Mark and canonical Matthew are basically
identical, the deviating sequence likely appeared in the gospel of Matthew, the lost gospel
of Matthew.
So when papias then goes on, he says, I want to put things back into their correct order.
And so his project is to give preference to the two gospels of Matthew he knows.
One that we know and one that we don't know, but has the content in a different order that
papias wants to reassemble.
Now it's not accidental that Q and papias both failed to survive, even though they both
are hugely valuable for understanding the historical genes.
And papias didn't survive because logia, or the Q doc, didn't survive.
And we'll talk about that perhaps, why didn't survive some other time.
But Matthew gives evidence that he has a synoptic problem too.
He knows Mark.
Almost all scholars say he knows Mark.
He must know something else because of what we call doublets.
A doublet is the repeating of a logia, or a saying, or a story, in Matthew, where one
of the examples comes from Mark.
So we have the control of it, he's editing Mark.
But he's got another one that comes from somewhere else, or at least is different.
And in every case, it's more primitive than the one we've got in Mark.
So this is reverse priority.
It means that Matthew, occasionally, is more primitive than Mark because he's using a source
that is early in Mark.
Now it's not that we only have two or three examples of it, and we have 18 doublets in
Matthew.
And in each case, the non-Markan doublet, the non-Markan version, is more primitive than
what we find in Mark.
You had your finger up.
Yeah, yeah.
I just want to clarify.
The doublet you're talking about are these sayings, these are logiae of Jesus, these
are now, these are sayings that aren't in the Markan Gospels, or some of them are probably
sayings of Jesus, that we don't find in Mark, but we know he knows Mark, he's using Mark.
There's a doublet there, but there are some that aren't sayings that are more primitive.
Thank you for the clarification, because I'm sure others are going to have the same thing.
In all 18 of these doublets, you do have a parallel in Mark.
He's using Mark and editing it for his own purposes, but he duplicates that content elsewhere
in always in a different sequence.
And in every case, it's earlier than what you had in Mark.
This one has these criteria in place, but most of the time, it's actually intuitive.
You can see that it's earlier, just by comparing.
Now most scholars would say that just means that Matthew knows a oral tradition that's
more primitive than Mark, and he retains the oral tradition, which actually is possible.
But I want to, I'll get to an argument that makes it more literal.
But in addition to doublets, is what scholars unfortunately call non-doublets.
And a non-doublet, I need to explain, because it also is important.
We don't have as many non-doublets as we have doublets.
We only have six in Matthew.
We have seven in Luke.
But a non-doublet is this.
When you read a gospel parallel, and you have two texts in common, or three texts in common,
you do the synopsis.
Frequent you'll need to see that Mark has been editing, Matthew has been editing Mark.
And all of a sudden, he stops.
But he stops because he's used the same material elsewhere.
So he's, it's not a doublet, because he's not any more editing Mark.
But he's got an alternative somewhere else in the gospel.
And in every case again, that's more primitive than what we find in Mark.
Now how can that be?
So now we have in a combination of doublets and non-doublets, a total of 24 logies or sayings
that are more primitive in Matthew than they are in Mark.
This is reverse priority.
But you have the same phenomenon in Luke.
Luke has, by my count, 14 doublets and seven non-doublets.
And in every case, when you have the non-Markan doublet, it is more primitive,
and it's in a different sequence.
So we know, so here's the argument for a missing gospel, that's right.
Matthew, Papius, knows two Matthews.
We know only one.
And he also knows Mark, but he doesn't know Luke.
He thinks that both of the Matthews he knows were translations of the Hebrew original
and both are flawed.
And he wants to put everything back into Matthew's order by doing his own synopsis.
That's what he's trying to do.
He's trying to rearrange things.
Now Matthew, writing earlier, did take this obviously, knows Mark.
But he knows something else that's more primitive than Mark.
Because of these doublets and non-doublets.
In other words, non-Markan doublets are earlier than the Hebrew original and Mark.
Then what's amazing is that Luke, writing around 115, 120, yeah, 120 perhaps, that is much later,
is more primitive in his doublets and non-doublets to both Matthew and Mark.
That's astonishing.
Now, it even gets more wild than that.
We know in places where there are doublets or non-doublets that Luke is more primitive than Matthew.
So that even, and by the way, this is going to be probably the core of our discussion with Mark Woodaker.
I agree with the far hypothesis that Luke knows Matthew.
I agree with you, Mark, that Luke knows Matthew.
But that can't explain why Luke is so frequently more primitive than Matthew.
Now, Mark Woodaker is very familiar with that problem.
And he and other advocates of the far hypothesis have worked hard to say that these apparent instances
of Luke being more primitive than Matthew can be accounted to by oral tradition or alternative sources
or whatever without appealing to you.
But you cannot say, and this is really important,
you cannot say that whatever Luke has as a parallel to Matthew is derivative from that.
It's coming from somewhere else.
Now, in my view, and this is not so important for our discussion right now, Mark knows you as well.
Now, so far, so I'm going to let you ask a question of that because I'm going to shift attention from source
reaction criticism that is from this microscopic literary assessment into sociological assessment.
OK, yeah, so that was one of my questions that you brought up, even though it's not as important.
Did Mark know Q and it sounds like they did.
But that makes me ask questions in my mind that aren't really important during this discussion.
But one of the questions since we brought up Papias Papias has two gospels.
He he believes there's two Matthews here that are that are if you will,
mistranslated into Greek and there's problems.
And there's also Mark that's not in the right order.
So technically, he's setting the trend, correct the problem, which means where's an air and see my good Christian friends?
You know, where's your infallibility here?
Right here, you have church fathers who are already saying we got a problem.
But here's the question I have because a lot of skeptics who are watching, especially their Eusebian skeptics,
they definitely don't trust Eusebius.
They say Eusebius is writing propaganda.
He's not really writing a fair account.
And it seems that the you can correct me here because I'm not educated in this area is that we have to trust
Eusebius to trust his account about Papias because we have no existing works of Papias and that Eusebius is writing his exposition of Papias.
So now you got to trust that what you see this is saying about Papias is accurate.
Can we trust it?
And it sounds like there is enough here to trust.
And one reason I want to say, is it a good argument to say, why would they be saying these things about these gospels that aren't positive?
It's not a good thing.
He's saying, you know, we got problems with our gospels, but I'm going to try and fix them.
That could be an argument of embarrassment, so to speak, to say this is kind of a trustworthy source to rely on.
If it was all glory and good and positive and miraculous, then you might say, yeah, nice try.
It sounds too legendary.
This doesn't sound very legendary.
So is that a good argument to say this is trustworthy or how would you go about to prove to somebody that is very skeptical of Eusebius?
And rightly so, I mean, I take him tongue in cheek and let me be careful with this guy.
What do you say?
Is he trustworthy?
Ah, I think Eusebius is not trustworthy.
So but let me make an argument about how one can read between the lines of Eusebius.
Eusebius's investment is that at an early time, you have these gospels and early readers trusted their reliable.
So Mark wasn't in error in writing things as he remembered.
So they're not in the right order, but, you know, give him a break.
He's simply recording what he wrote.
Now, Matthew wrote his stuff and it was authoritative in the right order, but these two stupid Greek translators botched it up.
Now, that's not your right.
Your argument is actually very interesting.
He, if Papias wanted to go full throttle in getting rid of Papias, he could have omitted that stuff, that the Greek translations are botched.
So you can read between the lines.
By the way, I don't trust Papias's interpretation either.
So that the scholar asked to sift the evidence and not accept the evidence, but that it is evidence is important.
And we, since we have nothing else, I'm going to think that it's that we can run with it.
If nothing else, Eusebius opens himself up to the possibility that there's a lost gospel because of the two methods.
Now, later on, it's clear that Eusebius has almost total contempt for Papias.
He says he's a man of very little intelligence.
You can figure that out by reading it for yourself.
That means that Papias's text was still publicly available in the fourth century.
So it was still around.
And apparently in Armenian circles, it was available to the 13th century, perhaps longer.
So it was around, but it was an embarrassment.
And I think it was embarrassed because Papias's project didn't make any sense once you don't have the lost gospel.
Now, what I've said thus far is primarily source redaction criticism.
It's the kind of engagement that I would have Mark Goodacre or Mark Thurman or John Cloppenbauer and so on.
What is missing, though, in the discussion, which I'm trying to solve in another book, this two memetic synopses that I'll talk about,
are two additional methodologies.
One, I would call social identity criticism.
That is, it uses sociological categories for categorizing the texts.
And the other is mimesis criticism, about which we'll talk about more in the introduction of my books.
Social identity criticism evaluates in-group, out-group behaviors and stereotypes when there's an asymmetrical balance in power, wealth, and status.
So when we look at this cluster of material that we gather with these non-Mark and Doublets and non-Doublets and reverse priority,
it doesn't matter what the order there is at this point.
What we can see is that they have a distinctive social identity that is different from the synoptics.
In other words, this material coheres.
Now, you could say at this point that it coheres because of Jesus himself, and the memory of Jesus had a certain cognitive stability.
It probably did.
But it's more likely, as we'll see, that it comes from a literary stream of early gospel, in other words, the lost gospel.
So, for example, oh, and by the way, social identity criticism is also interested in the prototypical leader.
So Jesus clearly is the prototypical leader.
Now, in these materials that are reverse priority materials, Jesus is the Son of God at His baptism.
And He's offered bread protection from angels and all the kingdoms of the world.
But when He goes out to call disciples, He says, the Son of Man has no place to lay His head.
Welcome to homelessness.
So as the Son of God, He's been offered all the kingdom.
He prefers rather to identify with human kind.
This is the first reference anywhere, anywhere that Jesus is the Son of Man.
All doesn't know about it.
It doesn't appear in other places in the years first.
And when Jesus goes out, He says, I did not come to call the righteous but sinners.
He's working with the socially margin.
He's working with the blind and the lame, the dead, the poor.
My reconstruction of Q includes His forgiveness of the sinful woman,
who in fact was a sinner.
She never repents.
And so Jesus' attitude toward His identity is He's the Son of God,
but He's the Son of Man who is there for the socially margin.
He's there for the poor.
Now, what does that mean about the outglue?
The primary outglue are those who are oppressing the poor,
namely the Pharisees and what are called the monarchy, the lawyers,
the experts on the nomas, on the law.
And let me read to you a passage about what the author has to say about these people.
Woe to you exegetes of the law, for you bind burdens and load on the backs of people,
but you do not want to lift your finger to move them, using the law to oppress.
Woe to you Pharisees, for you love the front seat and the synagogues and accolades in the markets.
Woe to you exegetes of the law, for you shut the kingdom of God from people.
You do not go in nor let those going trying to get in, get in.
The kingdom of God is the cipher that the author uses for Jesus' followers.
They're in the kingdom of God.
Woe to you Pharisees, for you tithe mental and kumin and give up justice and love.
It goes on and on.
And you can see that the author is reshaping the identity of his group,
having Jesus as the prototypical leader, vilifying the outcome.
So much of Q is in the controversies.
Controversies over gleaning on the Sabbath, feeling on the Sabbath, washing hands before eating.
The Beelzebul conflicts.
Jesus can cast out demons, but he does it by Beelzebul.
So this is a conflict document.
Now, I'm going to read the Beatitudes to you that appear in Luke.
They don't appear this way in the method.
So this gives a sense of this out-group, in-group understanding.
The in-group is the kingdom of God crowd, their Jesus' followers.
And they are identified with the outsider.
And those, I don't want it to be so applied to the unfortunate bifurcation we have in
American politics right now, but I think you'll see how it's applicable.
So here are the blessed, these are the Beatitudes.
This is the beginning of the Sermon on the Mount, the Sermon on the Point.
Or in Q, the inaugural Sermon.
Blessed are you, poor.
For the kingdom of God is for you.
This is stereotyped, in-group definition, right, the poor.
Kingdom of God is for you.
Blessed are you who hunger for you who will eat your fill.
Blessed are you who mourn for you who will be consoled.
Blessed are you when they hate and insult you.
This is in-group out-pretention and hostility, right?
And say every kind of evil against you because of the Son of Man who identifies with the poor and the hungry.
Be glad and exult for vast is your reward in heaven, for this is how they treated the prophets.
But woe to you who are rich, for you have your consolation.
Woe to you who are full now, for you will go hungry.
Woe to you who laugh now, for you will mourn and weep.
Woe to you when all people speak well, for their fathers treated the false prophets in the same manner.
Salt is good, but if salt becomes insipid, with what will it be seasoned?
Neither for the earth nor for the dung hills it's good. They throw it out.
God will throw out the rich and the privileged and those who abuse the prophets, namely the religious leaders.
And so that Jesus identifies with the poor and has this radical social message.
And it's the kind of thing that can get people killed, crucified.
So social identity, and by the way, this social identity of Jesus as the Son of God,
but the Son of Man who's with the poor, and the vilification of the Pharisees and the religious leaders,
and the prizing of the poor and the hungry does appear in later gospels, but not with the same intensity.
And they are no longer a minority group. This is certainly clear in the facts.
They're not a minority group. They're a major movement.
And by using social identity criticism, one can see that Mark has a certain kind of social identity.
He's dealing with Matthew as his own, Luke as his own, and they're all different from this collection of materials.
That underlies the gospels. Now, one could say that it reflects Jesus and the Jesus movement
as a religious movement hostile to Jewish authorities. But as we're seeing now with
nemesis criticism, it comes out of a document. Now, you had asked in your notes that before we
talk, what does this mean about the historical Jesus? And so before getting into nemesis criticism
and this final thing, I want to talk with you about that.
The ethos and social definition that the author has in the lost gospel
is the closest evidence we have to Jesus' own self-understanding.
Now, it's not identical, as we'll see, because there's also a literary project that's at work.
In other words, already the process of mythologizing has begun, although all in Jewish categories,
not in Greek categories. But this is one reason I am so sorry for the word evangelical
about this lost Evangelion, about this lost gospel, because I think its historical worth
is huge. And you can see some of this already in the Pauline epistles, this concern about the kingdom
of God who's in and a concern for opening up the community to gentiles and criticism of
legal authority and law. So I feel very strongly about this social identity criticism,
and you won't find that in the discussion of this not big problem. And it's a pity,
it's a tragedy that we've only talked about the literary features and whether it'll
leave enough mathy or whatever. But there's something to be said for social identity
in this material that is what I find very compelling. Okay, so Dr. McDonald, if you don't
mind me poking a few things here, this is interesting, the social identity criticism,
because it does touch the gentile discussion. And I think it's important to ask you maybe if
you can here, and this isn't in our list of notes, I didn't really think to ask this, but because
you brought up social identity, I think it's important to kind of understand not only is he
dealing with the poor that appears like he has a poor movement, almost stoic Judaism, you know,
it's focused on the poor Jews, if you will. And Matthew seems to be focused on this phrase,
if you will, the lost sheep of the house of Israel. And this phrase is like very unique that
he even kind of defines like don't go in the way of the Gentiles, stay away from the Samaritans.
There's a Samaritan rivalry taking place between Jews and Samaritans in the first century,
at least Josephus documents, there's even a Jewish Samaritan war that happens around that time. So
Matthew seems to be more Jewish, obviously, but can you maybe briefly elaborate on the
contention here and why Matthew seems to go all the way out of his way to make this like
Matthew 121, Jesus, you shall call his name Jesus for he shall save his people
from their sins. Like he makes this Jesus seem to be very much focused primarily,
almost exclusively on Jews or Israelites. And the other Gospels don't have those exclusionary
tendencies as much. In fact, they go out of the way to say, you know,
they try to break beyond that, it seems. What's going on with the social tension here? And we
use this social criticism here. This ties into that, does it not? Oh, sure it does. I want to
say, though, that I think the issue isn't that Q is more stoic. I think it's more cynic.
And there's a big difference between the two. Stoics are socially concerned. They would like
Pharisees in law and order. Cynics like the freestyle and identification with poor and so on.
So it's more cynic than it's not. But Matthew already is making the Gospel more widespread
to Gentiles than Q did. Now, Q already has Jesus saying he's found more faith in Romans
insuriant than anyone in Israel, right? He also says that many will come from east and west and
eat with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and you, law-abiding folks, are going to find yourselves cast out.
In my reconstruction, it also has the Mephean statement, prostitutes and tax collectors will
be in the kingdom of God before you guys. Now, what Matthew does, though, is because of the Canaanite
woman who is a Canaanite, Jesus exercises her daughter because his mission is no longer exclusively
to the lost chief of the house of Israel, as it was in the Judah. It's the Jewish authorities
at Jesus's birth who want to kill him and repair his daughters. But it's the Magi from the east
who come and bring their gifts. At the end of the Gospel, whereas in the Q document, Jesus says,
do not go to the Gentiles or the Samaritans. Jesus, the risen Jesus appears and says, go into all the
effeminate, all into all the Gentiles, and preach the Gospel and baptize. So that even though
their social identity for Matthew is a little more complex, but it's more open, and what I would say,
the membranes between the Indian group and the other group are more porous for Matthew than they are
for the Q document. And already he's trying to open the Gospel up. Now, Mark already did it
before Matthew, and Luke does it in space. But the big issue for me, methodologically, is you're
exactly right. Once you see these social identity markers of the leader, the group, the outward
competition, hostility, upward and downward mobility, and so on, it becomes very complex.
You can apply it to literary texts and see that these are different moments. The same
thing is true in the Gospel of John. You can identify the three straight up Gospel of John
by their different social identities. Now, I wanted to kind of wrap up what I was hoping
that we could say with one other observation. This is Mimesis criticism. Mimesis criticism is
simply the analysis of a text over against an antecedent text that it uses as a literary
model. It doesn't use it as a source. It's not trying to incorporate the material,
but it's trying to rewrite it. And in the case of the Logo, Jesus, it's a rewriting of Deuteronomy
from beginning to end. So in two shipwreck hospitals, I give criteria for reconstructing the
context of the literary flow of the book. And from beginning to end, it imitates Deuteronomy.
In fact, I'll give you just a few examples. The name of Deuteronomy in Hebrew is
Hadabrin, that is, the words. In Septuagint, it begins, these are the Logoi that Moses spoke
in the wilderness as it would be to Israel. How does the Logoi of Jesus begin? The Logoi of Jesus,
not Moses. John the Baptist is in the wilderness preaching the gospel to the Brutavipers. In Jesus's
the three temptations. In each case, he quotes from Deuteronomy. In the inaugural sermon,
he takes 12 disciples up a mountain to give them a new Torah. At the end of it, he says,
if you do these things, you're like a man who built his house on rock. If you don't do them,
you're like someone who built his house on sand. The end of Deuteronomy is all about blessings and
cursing is what you do with the law. At the end of Logoi, Jesus says to his 12 followers,
when I sit in the king, when the son of man sits on the throne and the kingdom that God will give,
you will each have a throne. There will be 12 thrones and you'll sit judging the 12 tribes of
Israel. There are other indications of this hostility or this rewriting of Deuteronomy
in the Logoi of Jesus, which is its model. It is modeling itself after Deuteronomy to portray Jesus
as the new prophet of Moses. But in a different way. In the inaugural sermon, Jesus said,
the law and the prophets were until John the Baptist. After that, the kingdom of God is enforced.
Right? So the law prophets on the old. So you have in the Logoi of Jesus the new Deuteronomy,
with Jesus as the prophet like Moses. Now, what's the status of the law for this kingdom of God here?
Those who observe all the commandments are going to be called great in the kingdom.
But even those who do not obey all the law will be in the kingdom of God. They'll just be called
the least. So when Jesus has a debate with the legal authority about what is the great commandment,
Jesus says, love the Lord your God with all your hearts and all your mind. You may brush yourself.
If you do this, you will live. That is the only commandment that's required of the law
in order to be a member of the kingdom of God. That is so radical in terms of first century
Judaism. And whether Jesus himself would have signed on to that, I don't know. I suspect he might have.
But I know that that's what's going on with the sociocon. It's my view that that's what's going
on with social identity, which is different from the social identity markers that you have in
independent contributions by other abandonists. So let me ask you a couple of questions, if you
don't mind, since we're getting near to the hour. And here's the interesting thing. There's so much
more you wrote that we're not really touching on. You give great examples. There's many examples.
You go into the literary structure. I mean, you have charts and diagrams and all that good stuff.
And you get into the Greek. You get into the source here to put it in layman's terms and the
basic chronology of who the development of Jesus, if you were to say the bare bones historical guy
to ask a social question here, do you think he gave a who about Gentiles? Do you think he had a
mission that really was to talk to Gentiles, to incorporate Gentiles? Or do you think he was
exclusively Jewish only and that the writers developed this? And there were real restrictions
on this community. And it ends up growing and developing, becoming broader and broader as
followers changed the movement. What do you think? What do you think the earliest Jesus,
you know, you give the hint that if he is cynic, but he's very about the poor and he's kind of
bucking up against the leadership, well, we got a problem with this guy. We need to take this guy out.
And I've heard many people think he was a rebel, which is why the Romans would have crucified him
to begin with. He must have been like leading a movement, a revolt against the leadership of
Rome, but not only not maybe not so much them, maybe just the Jews. I don't know, but he was
definitely a rebel, according to some. Who was Jesus? And was he okay with Gentiles? Is that
something completely foreign to the movement? It seems like Acts chapter 10 is trying to make
Peter convinced that this is God. Like he didn't know. Hold on. This wasn't part of the program.
How come these guys are in this now? I don't know. What are your thoughts?
I'm going to play the role of a historian and just say what's the evidence.
And the best evidence we have for the historical Jesus being opened to Gentiles comes from Paul.
Paul has a mission that includes Gentiles and creates hostility with Jewish authorities
and with Judaism and so on. And he understands the kingdom of God to be inclusive. Now that's
even before Q. Paul couldn't have known Q. And so the Q document written shortly before the war
is giving a similar alternative to traditional Judaism. We also have a contested passage in Josephus
in which James the Just is killed by Torah observant Jews, but other Jews come to his rescue.
Now, whether James the Just had a Gentile mission or not, I doubt. But it means that his attitude
toward Torah was marginal. Yes, he was Torah observant enough to Torah that certain people would
defend him, but he must have violated Torah after all. He's called the Just. But he must have
violated Torah enough to get himself in trouble. So he represents, I think, a marginal in Judaism
that is critical of its own law. Now, whether that includes an openness to Gentiles, I don't know.
But I think what one can say, whatever Jesus' own position was, is understanding of the kingdom of
God as immoral and not a genetic issue, not an or an ethnic issue, makes itself felt
in both the Q document and in Paul. And I would say that that's pretty interesting
confluence of information and social identity.
I absolutely agree with you. And we definitely could deal a lot more in detail and go into all
these things. But I think that for now, they need to get the book. It's a big one. But you
know, you got me interested. I feel like I need to get the two shipwreck gospels to really dig
into some of this and look at it for myself. I have a lot more questions that we can even develop
over time, maybe, and have additional questions from our guest or from our audience. They can
ask questions, and maybe we can get that. Because really, what I think we need to do is develop
questions and have you debate Dr. Goodacre and then have a post-debate show for both of you guys,
where you guys can maybe comment on the previous debate on what you thought pros and cons, things
issues you should take with each other's arguments. And also, maybe we can deal with some of the
questions that people have developed from this show and potentially the debate itself, so they
can see, oh, well, okay, I see what they did with that. He answered my question and go from there.
But I can tell you, it's complicated. This is a very complex system. The far hypothesis does not
take into papias. Are any of these the two document hypothesis, the fair hypothesis, far, fair,
are they even talking papias, or is this something exclusively you?
They obviously know about papias, but they dismiss the arguments, and we can talk about that another
time. If you don't mind, Derek, I'd like to make the hypothesis really simple with the summer.
Okay. The Q plus papias hypothesis really is very simple in its basic commitments,
and very complex in its development. But it's very simple this way.
Matthew has two sources in forming. One is Mark, and another has similar content,
but in a more primitive version. Papias comes along, and he knows Matthew and Mark,
but he also knows another Matthew that has things in a separate order. Luke comes along,
and he's the last of the snuff hypothesis, and he has the same phenomenon of doublets and non-doublets.
He knows papias, apparently, so he knows Matthew, but much of his content is more primitive than
anything else that we have. It's likely that it comes from a lost gospel.
By using social identity criticism, you see that these materials that can be identified
with these non-Mark and doublets and non-doublets has a distinctive social identity, both for Jesus,
for the members of the kingdom of God, and for the Torah observant of them.
But when you assemble these texts into these units, into a book, it seems to be a magnetic
imitation of Deuteronomy to portray Jesus as the prophet like Moses.
And so those three methodologies, not just source redaction criticism,
which is where we get stuck in the snuff problem, but also social identity issues and literary
magnetic issues, I think close the door on the must have been a lost gospel. I would never say that I
have precisely reconstructed it. There's no way of knowing how close that would be,
but that we have a lost gospel that can be reconstructed with this criteria of reverse
priority I consider to be firm. I like that. That's very interesting. So ladies and gentlemen,
the Q plus papious hypothesis that Dr. Dennis McDonald will suggest, the Q is the memetic
of Deuteronomy. So Q is the memetic of Deuteronomy. Mark and Luke, of course, are the memetic
critic connection, if you will, is to the Homeric epics in the Iliad. Here you have the Johanine,
which is the Euripides, the Bacchai, and Dionysus. I love this stuff. I love this material. I don't
know why. I guess finding out that these books are, they're not the magic I was told when I was
Christian. When I was a hardcore Christian fundamentalist, you know, there's like this
protection when you're in the bubble of defending the Bible to be this magical,
infallible, God-breathed, perfect, jot-and-tittle book. And this right here like tears down all
the apologetics. I mean it, you know, any inerrancy infallibility type argument from Christians,
this, it brings beauty in a different way, but it tears it down the whole structure that they
build. So, you know, people have criticized my work by saying that I'm so anti-Christian.
And I am an atheist, but I love these texts. And it pains me that the people who claim to love them
most misunderstand them so badly. And I think once one can, I would say that
it's like having a prison where sunlight going through a prison gets refracted into various
strands. That what we can see is the various strands show a richness of moral development,
social sophistication, philosophical sophistication that is invisible if you only see the single
beam of light going into the prison. And what happens with, too often with Christian piety,
is we find this one beam going, but never gets to the prison. And the prison makes the light
more beautiful than the light would have been otherwise. And I love these texts and I find
myself nourished by that. But it's such a pity that the people who claim to love these texts the most
and to love Jesus the most have so much trouble understanding the glorious diversity of these
texts. Well said. Really well said, ladies and gentlemen, get the books. I mean,
he's got a lot more and there's a man named Truth Surge who's been on YouTube for a while.
He has a series he called Escavating the Empty Tomb. He used the Homeric connections to argue
that, you know, there was no actual empty tomb. Using a lot of this critical scholarship that
you have developed. I hope you know there's a lot of your work out there that's being used by people
that you probably don't agree with even. But I know one of the guys that I'm interested in
interviewing for the show is Brian Madurescu. I think I'm pronouncing that right. It's Murrescu,
technically, Madurescu. And he wrote a book called The Immortality Key and he's discussing this idea
that early Christians in their sacraments were taking a psychedelic type of wine punch, if you
will. They kind of spiked the wine a little. But somewhere along the lines he uses your work. I'm
not sure where and how. Has he contacted you? Yes. Okay. I hope to get him on the show someday.
Maybe I can have you and him join on the show. I don't know. I'd love to do that.
It would. So do you have any closing words you'd like to make to the audience?
One thing we didn't talk about is why the cute plus papious hypothesis does not have legs in the
discussion. Yeah. If you don't mind, can you comment on that before we go? First of all,
I'm surprised by it and frustrated by it. And for that reason, I'm so grateful for this opportunity
to share this material. But I think there are two other factors. One is unfortunately scholarly
jealousy. That if I'm right, people on both of these sophisticated positions, the far hypothesis
I'm going to document are wrong. And nobody wants to give publicity to people. They differ.
So that is one piece. But also, I must say, we've talked about this several times.
There's a reason why this synoptic problem has not been handled for 2000 years properly.
And the reason is that the solutions are complex. And two shipwreck gospels is not easy reading.
It's heavy sledding and was heavy writing. But we have been doing something wrong if we still
have to debate as rigorously as we do how these gospels relate to each other. We've been doing
something wrong. And for better or worse, the Pupus-Papius hypothesis permits an alternative way
of getting beyond the impasse. Yes, I agree with the far hypothesis. Yes, I agree with the two
document hypothesis that there's a missing gospel. And mine is actually largely because of this issue
of reverse priority. So the complexity of the arguments
contributes to its lack of popularity, I will put it that way. So I'm doing my best to make it
accessible. And by the way, the synoptic problem is not going to be answered just by identifying Q.
Just as important is the topic that we're going to pursue probably in other YouTube videos
is the imitation of Greek poetry as a way of establishing social identity for the gospels,
especially in Mark Indian. So the solution to the synoptic problem is complex. My solution is one
of the more complex solutions to it. And it doesn't lend itself easily to an elevator speech.
I agree. This has been such a good time. You're right. It's a very complex issue. I'm glad that
we tackled this one first because then we're going to do a number of videos hoping six,
but who knows? God rested on the seventh day. Worst comes to worst. We get a seventh one in.
We have a debate coming up with you and Dr. Carrier on the historical Jesus,
whether or not it was a historical man who was mythologized, or was this a divine celestial
figure who was you hemorrhized at some point later in time. And that's going to be an interesting
debate. We're going to be recording that December 17th. And also sometime in the second week of
January, this is new news to you, Dr. McDonald. I'm just now remembering. I was going to email you.
Dr. Goodacre said that anytime the second week of January, we can record a debate
with you and him. And I think this is going to be two wonderful videos to hear both sides and how
you guys develop your arguments. But I'm trying to get my head wrapped around the complexity here
because this is such an interesting thing. One of the good questions I have and maybe you do too,
you might go, yeah, that's a good question down in the comment section. If you've made it this
far into the video is why are there imitations of Greek literature when Q is doing an imitation of
Deuteronomy? So here you have a breakaway from the Hebrew scriptures and going into Greek literature.
It's a great question to ask. So Dr. McDonald, thank you for your time. I really want to do more
with you. We could do more collabs. We got to get your name out there. I think you should be
really be out there a lot more than you are. And so I want to do my best to keep that endeavor
happening. And I hope you ladies and gentlemen will not only get the books because that helps him.
Obviously, he wants his material to be known. He's working with publishers trying to find a way to
publicly or if you will publish stuff for free. He's not concerned about the income. He's more
concerned about getting this material out while he's still alive. He's got boots on the ground.
And of course, most of the information will probably get out when you're long gone. And I
want this to try and get out while we're alive. So here I am myth vision podcast trying to make
that happen. Thank you for joining me. Thank you. And ladies and gentlemen, do not forget we are myth vision.
