Ladies and gentlemen, I really enjoy this second part.
If you liked the first part, you're really going to enjoy the second part if you're anything
like me.
We're going to delve into a lot of different topics, catching the New Testament authors,
adding things that weren't there, obviously piggybacking off of the Septuligent.
We're also going to look at who the historical Jesus, not necessarily who he was, but that
there may have been one, arguments from embarrassment, which delve into interesting details the Gospels
maybe don't mean to put there as you find out, Paul's version of the resurrection being
explained over against the Gospels, which is an evolved idea of the resurrection, and
Rabbi Tovia Singer takes us down a variety of different offshoots and ideas as we explore
these together.
I'm interested in doing follow-up shows, and I want your contribution, your comments,
your love and support as usual.
If you guys like this, like this video, subscribe to the channel.
Be sure to go check out his YouTube video and his books, and his YouTube channels are
loaded with information.
He does come from a believing perspective, but sometimes it's needed to pick someone
from a position who firmly believes in their text to really have ammunition against another
version of a belief system that may be monotheistically piggybacking off a Judaism or a form of Judaism.
I want your thoughts, because I really enjoyed this show, and I plan on doing more.
Your host, Derek Lambert, and don't forget, we are MythVision.
Rabbi Tovia Singer, here we go.
Let's change shift topics here, because we were talking about a Septulegint.
We did rabbit trail into the dogs, but I wanted to ask you, other than the part where they
pierced my hands and my feet, the Septulegint has, or we'll just start using Septulegint
Christian version, just to give people an idea of where we're going with this, what
are the differences between what we see with the Hebrew Masoretic text, as they call it,
and pretty much what the Hebrew Bible we have now, and the Septulegint Bible version,
the Christian version.
Can you give us another interesting, aha, we caught you.
We see the finger, we have your DNA, we have your fingerprints, you're red handed trying
to change something, and this is easy to prove that the Christians did with the Septulegint
over against the Hebrew version to try and fit their version of Scripture.
Do you have somewhere that kind of catches them doing that?
Really, you'd be easy to answer questions, you'd ask me if there's a place where they
don't do that.
I'm not trying to be cute here, but this is a nightmare, and I don't think people realize
this is why I care so much about Christians, because I know how much trouble they're in.
We can go for hours, there are over 200 quotes, supposive quotes, of the Jewish Bible in the
Christian Bible, somehow quotes the Jewish Bible.
Almost all of them are a scam, not all, but almost all of them are a scam, unless they're
just here always when the Lord is my God, the Lord is one, and that's the most important
thing, that's fine, but any kind of polemic, it's all playing hide the ball.
Can you give an example of like Paul, because I know Paul does it a lot.
Paul, I couldn't even know where to start.
I don't want to get caught, let me, I'll do Paul, give you an example.
I want to do something, because it's my show, not yours, oh no, it isn't, it's your show,
I'm kidding.
No, no, no, please do it, because you're the one who's bringing this, and I get it, we
can do follow up shows where we actually have the ones we want to deal with.
This is very interesting, okay, I want you, the viewer, listen very carefully, listen very
carefully.
The Messiah is described in the Jewish Bible in quite a few places, this is going to come
as a shock to everyone, and those places all Christians know are talking about the Messiah.
As it turns out, he's never said to die, suffer, all that is Christian, all that's
later, no one expected Messiah to die, we even see it in the book of, in the Christian
Bible, where when Jesus, we are told, says, I have to suffer and die, Peter goes far
beyond from you, like, why is Peter so surprised if that's what you're supposed to be doing?
Okay, now, there's nothing in the Jewish Bible that says the Messiah is supposed to
do any miracles, heal anybody, none of that stuff is in the Jewish Bible.
There's only one thing we're told in the Jewish Bible, none is the Messiah, please
God he'll come soon, he's going to be a teacher who's going to inspire people to turn back
to God, the nations are going to repent to himself, very famously he'll rebuke many nations.
Now it may be, please God the Messiah will come quickly on time, that he will do miracles,
but you could be sure one thing, this is not important to the Jewish Bible, there is not
a single mention anywhere in the Hebrew Bible that the Messiah himself is to do any miracles,
let alone what we find in the Christian Bible is walking around, healing blind people and
putting spit and taking devil's head and casting out, there's nothing among like this.
This is a little troubling to the writers of the Christian Bible, why?
Because they need the Jewish Bible to say that the Messiah is going to heal people because
the Gospels are just Jesus walking around just healing people, I'm not going to, I was
going to go, you know, the Messiah is supposed to go around, it's almost like the Messiah
is going out, like David Copperfield, like David Carr, like that's nothing like what
the Messiah is supposed to be.
Do you see elements of him like the Spittle, that's borrowed from Vespasian in my opinion?
Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, absolutely, that's right, I didn't want to get into that, we didn't
know that.
Josephus tells us that Vespasian, the emperor of Rome who was emperor during the time of
the destruction of the Second Temple, he would use the Spittle in order to heal the blind,
he would touch someone's leg and cripples would walk away.
This was standard fare in the Greco-Roman world, that the gods, the lower tier gods
of the Greco-Roman world were able to heal people and that was just standard stuff, right,
that's where all comes from, but what I want to do is show you what was done, this is going
to blow your mind out the window, so whatever it is, your mind is going to go flying, so
I'm going to take something so innocent, I want to direct you, I don't know if you have
a Bible near you or not.
It's up to you, if you want you can do it, follow along, go to Luke 4 verse 16, here's
the story, the story goes like this, Jesus goes into a synagogue in Nazareth and it was
on the Sabbath day, and in just so people know, in a synagogue on Shabbat on the Sabbath
we first will read a portion of the Torah, the five books of Moses, we do this in a way
so that by the end of the year we've gone through the entire five books of Moses, it's
a cycle, okay, good, but we also, in addition to that, read a small portion of the prophets,
of the prophets, okay, and a great deal of it is from the Book of Isaiah, we are told
in Luke chapter 4 that Jesus called up to be the reader in the synagogue to read from
the prophets for the whole congregation, and he begins to read, and this you'll find in
Luke chapter 4 verse 18, he then begins to read from the prophets, and what he's reading
from is Isaiah chapter 61, you don't need to take my word for it, if you have any Christian
study Bible, there'll be a footnote there telling you that this he's reading from Isaiah
61, this is totally legit because Isaiah 61 could be read in a synagogue on the Sabbath,
what happens is the text, this is what he reads, this is straight out of the book of
Luke, the Spirit of the Lord is upon me because he is abnoying me to proclaim the good news
to the poor, that's fine, now Isaiah is really speaking the first person about himself, but
let's just ignore all that, continue, he sent me to proclaim liberty to captives, fine, and
recovery of sight to the blind, huh, recovery of sight to the blind, now, all you have to
do, so you know I didn't sneak into your house, if you just open it either, if you do this
on the browser, you've got a Bible, open up Isaiah 61, and you'll find that that thing
of healing the blind isn't there, okay, he says the Spirit of the, now this is obviously
probably based, it's ESV, so I don't know if this is based off which way, the Spirit
of the Lord God is upon me because the Lord has anointed me to bring good news to the
poor, he has sent me to bind up the broken hearted to proclaim, whoa, whoa, to proclaim
liberty, okay, somehow he went from healing the blind in the New Testament to, he's saying
to bind up the blind in Isaiah 61, ain't there, bingo, got it, now why does Luke, the
word here, here's how fans interpolate, he should, now I'm going to tell you this, if
you're not studying this stuff and not looking it up, you're never going to know this because
this is so getting it under the radar, it's totally, this is really dealing from the bottom
of the deck, that means you just, you just throw in, because it all sounds good, I'm
going to play him the good news, that's the New Testament, that's what the word gospel
means, good news, it's all going good, but it is shoved it in, just smoke that one in,
like you slid it in under the radar, but it isn't in the original, I mean, and why did
Luke do it, because Luke wants to portray Jesus as a healer of the blind, which is the
biggest miracle that he's performing, well guess what, it's not of course in the Hebrew,
we have the Dead Sea Scrolls that are much older than Christianity, hundreds of years that we
have, it ain't there, so what the Septuagint guys did was they put it in the Septuagint,
meaning you're not going to believe this, you won't believe, this is going to blow your mind
out the window, because this is so much more important than Paul, what this is the key,
so what the author of Luke did, or maybe some scribe who re-edited Luke,
whatever our oldest Luke has to say, there's no Luke that doesn't have it, the key is what
someone did was we need to have something that sounds more Christy, we need something that
sounds more Jesus like, that means just give captives, what is that, and when the Jesus
freak out, we need him to be a healer of the blind, so it's not in Isaiah, so the Christian, the
church interpolated that into the book of Luke, it's a cute little story, but he just shoved it
in there, but it isn't in the original text, and that's why your King James NIV, he has me,
doesn't have it in Isaiah, which is the source for this, now here's, this is why this is such a
mind-blower, if you open up a Septuagint, now you might say to yourself, hey I'm watching the show,
and I don't speak or read Greek, you don't need to, why, because they have the English translation
of the Septuagint, it's available, it was translated, that means the Greek Septuagint has been
translated into English language by a lot of people, it's often called the LXE, there are many of them,
so all you do is, unless if you have the software, it's easy, if you don't, just open up browser
and just Google English translation of the LXX of the Septuagint, if you do that, but you've got
to be like sitting down your chair, really comfortable, center of gravity, and you go to Isaiah 61,
there it is, it provides sight to the blind, that means Septuagint guys shoved in the interpolation,
the corruption of Luke, now I'm gonna go further, okay, so by the way, everything I'm saying to you,
this is, you know, I have a theory, I have a theory that UFOs landed on the Temple Mount,
everything I'm telling you, you can look it up, in everything I teach, I say please,
please look it up, I didn't sneak into your computer and shove that in there, so I wanted to show you
explicitly that this is a con job, now again, you're a pastor, again, I'm not saying this because
I don't want, you know, some pastor to be angry, they don't know, if you show this to your pastor,
he's going to just lose his toupee on this, it's because he, you know, what he never shows you
for, now if you go into the Christian comment, this is this is the, now you want to go, we're
going more insane, okay, okay, crazy now, let's do it, I'm always going crazy,
yeah, yeah, you won't believe what I'm about to say because I've loaded this up, here we go,
yeah, I'm not the first guy who noticed this, Christian apologists noticed this problem as well,
like they noticed that the text appears in Luke with providing recovery of sight to the blind,
but it's absent from Isaiah 61, I'm not like some guy in Jerusalem who just invents this stuff or
discovers it because I'm Mr. Einstein of the Bible, people have discovered this, but here's the crazy
thing, if you go to any, any commentary on the Bible, that means let's say you have some study
Bible, whoever, it doesn't make a difference who's study Bible yet, so you know what a study
Bible is, we have the text on top, the bottom is got the commentary, so many of them, not all,
many of them address this, and they say that Luke 418 is a court of the Septuagint, not in the Hebrew,
right, well, but you know what's insane about that, the story says the opposite, the original story
is that Jesus walks into a synagogue in Nazareth, and he is reading from the scroll,
he's not reading from a Septuagint, this is the whole hammer lock on what this,
yeah, this is the tabby, if you go back to Luke and say, okay, I'm just gonna read Luke,
like just read it, that's what the deal, you see, when everything I'm sharing with you and the viewers,
this is not like, I have a theory, who cares what my theory is, I'm saying just open the text,
open your commentary, I don't care who you use as your commentary, pick it, that's what they're gonna
say, they're gonna say that, he is reading the Hebrew according to what the narrative is saying,
yet the commentator saying, this is quoting the Septuagint, which is like, what the heck are you
talking about, and Jesus, the son of God, you have, I mean, just imagine this, the son of God,
I mean, he's the second person in the Trinity, walks into a synagogue on the Sabbath in northern
part of Israel, and he's going, does anybody have a Greek translation, because my Hebrew really is
not very good, that is insanity, and it says little, he's reading from the scroll, he's not
reading from the Septuagint, so the commentary that has to rescue, I mean, this story is so insane
that if I couldn't show this to you in black and white for yourself, maybe you might have trouble
believing this, but so that's why I couldn't sit here for days and days, I mean, just so people
know, if I do have a very, very large YouTube channel, and I'm saying it's not the plug my channel,
channel is huge, a lot of viewers, 26,000, the key is this, if you go to YouTube, and if you have
a question about any verse or any concept, you can, Derek and I are having a lot of fun,
we're having a blast, but if you have a question about a verse, you can just search my name in
YouTube and the verse, and I'll probably cause like 700 videos, so you just can go for it,
that the key is you, what I'm showing you is not my opinion, it's, it's, that's what the text says,
so well, what we're looking at something really, really quite scandalous, and who are the victims?
The victims are the Christians, people in the church who really, for the most part, are nice
people, I assume, I'm sure, there are a few crazies, yeah, everybody's got nut drops,
but the most beautiful verses are people, America's a very religious country, and if you're not sure
of that, go to Europe, you'll see, the churches are empty, United States is a very religious
country filled with predominantly Christians and predominantly Protestant Christians who
pride themselves, they read the Bible, they just not read in Hebrew, virtually no Christian
reads his or her Bible in Hebrew, they're all using translations, right, and this, this has been a
nightmare for the church, it's been, it's ultimately the nightmare for the Christian, because if you're
reading a translation, you're reading a human iteration, translation is a man-made product,
go to the original Hebrew, and Hebrew is a really easy language to learn. I want to ask
something, something, if you don't mind, I, I, I, I'm bringing up a topic that was recently
discussed on my last show, and this is kind of in the same vein, I, I see the gospel narratives as
as mythology, yes they're theological, but I do think there's a huge
invention here of this story, this story is obviously concocted, it seems like it's not
really historical, in my opinion, it's historical fiction at best, and what I'm, what I want to
ask your opinion was, and I don't know if you delved into this too much, but I think Josephus
and his writings play a huge part on the development, or at least they go hand in hand
with the gospel narratives in a lot of ways, and I'll give you an example,
Jesus being crucified between two thieves, I can find similar narratives in, in, in other stories,
and even in the Hebrew Bible, in Joseph's story, for example, with the two men who dream in the
dungeon who are down there, you could see some type of tribe to make it look similar, but in
Josephus's autobiography, he had three friends that were crucified, and one of them comes down
and survives, I, I feel like they, they hijacked that and used this stuff into this narrative,
but my biggest red flag and why I'm hesitant to just wholeheartedly accept that idea is you've
got these other characters, what appears to me, like Paul and others, who really believe this
guy was really crucified, it seems, and they actually believe that he was the Messiah, and
actually, is it cognitive dissonance, or is this like fabricated, is this like, was there really
people who thought that this guy really came, and he really died, got killed, and they somehow
really thought he rose again, were they going crazy, or do you think it was all made up, maybe?
It's actually, this isn't difficult to answer at all, first our story in Josephus,
so Josephus's story is very interesting, and most people miss why this is so interesting,
so Josephus is a very well connected person, he's, he's working on behalf of the Romans,
he's writing for the Roman Empire, okay, Jewish guy, he's writing for the Romans,
he's a most important first century historian, now what would Jerusalem look like in the first
century, okay, Josephus was born in 37, dies about 100, well what would it, what would it look like
to walk down the streets of Jerusalem in the 60s, when there's a war in the 50s, what would it look
like, you would see something horrendous, the estimates are about a quarter of a million Jews
were crucified in the first century, that means that crucifixion, which was the really one of the
most horrific ways that anyone concocted to kill anyone, was ubiquitous, it was everywhere, it was
a banality, that means what, and this is what you witness, you witness people on a cross or usually
a stake, naked, and here's the key about, you have to understand about Jerusalem,
nine out of 12 ones, the weather is perfect, Jerusalem is on a mountain, not really high,
but it's about 3,000 feet above sea level, if I tell you that the weather in Jerusalem,
eight and a half, certainly eight and a half months of the year, is somewhere between 70
and 80 degrees, with no humidity, okay, so Jerusalem has just amazing weather,
and that let alone the winter where you have a lot of nice, Jerusalem has like the,
like think of the United States and think of like, where you just have great weather, maybe
South Carolina, I don't know, but you know like Miami is too hot, so imagine a place that's also
in, what happened, so all these people are crucified, they're left there naked, and they,
they die of, eventually they just can't stand any longer, and they, their legs let go, and
it takes them many days, usually, a healthy adult could stand for many, many days, they're
defecating on themselves, it's horrible, and finally they give out, their legs give out,
they collapse, their lungs become elongated, and they die of asphyxiation, it's horrible, and then
they're just, their bodies are left for scavengers to eat, and so you don't even have a decent burial,
it's just, it's just the word, and so imagine, now here, why do the Romans do that, that's a very
expensive thing, we know that lumber was brought into Israel, so that, because they didn't have
enough wood, why would the Romans go to the expense of putting people up on stage,
high, high up, that's what you saw, naked, dying people, screaming, crying all over,
Jerusalem, why, because these people would have committed one offense to get crucified,
and that is, that they conspired against the empire, if you were a threat to the empire,
they wanted to make an example out of you, and when you saw that, when you saw hundreds of people,
just dying, imagine the humiliation, the horror of the nightmare, and because Jerusalem is such,
has such great weather, people didn't die of cold, heat stroke, no, I mean, it's 72 degrees outside,
it's perfect weather, so you really will last for, what happens to Josephus, Josephus is walking
around Jerusalem, and he sees his buddies, he knows them, and they're still alive, because
people lasted for days, I mean, the story like in John, where Jesus dead in six hours,
is extremely unlikely, I mean, when I say extremely unlikely, now, is it possible that
someone could drop dead in six, I guess it's possible, for sure, it's possible, it's just
very, it would be very unlikely, and that's the real takeaway, people just didn't die,
if I told you, if I, usually nails weren't used, it's controversial what we use, but if your hands
were bound to a thing, and you're standing on something, you could stand for more than six
hours, you could stand for more than 24 hours, whatever it is, eventually, he gave out and died,
that's the takeaway, the takeaway is people just, the story is, in that sense, the story is concocted,
but therefore, if Jesus was crucified, anyone was crucified, because the empire was trying to make
an example out of you, if you just went over to someone and said, you know, give me your money
or I'll kill you, and the guy doesn't give you money, and you kill the guy, they just take you
and kill you, the Roman Empire is not going to spend a fortune on having you crucified, because
that's not the threat they're concerned about, there, the Roman Empire was only concerned about
any threat to the empire, crucifixion sent the message, so that's what happens to you, if you
mess with the empire, and therefore, Josephus' description of crucifixion is something that
everybody was aware of, that means that's what you saw, and the writers of the New Testament
very well aware of what the Romans had in store for you, if you were a threat to the empire,
in fact, Josephus' mention of Jesus, so-called mention of Jesus in antiquities, 18, for example,
33, that's all nonsense, that was added in much, much later, those are not authentic to Josephus,
they were interpolated later, specifically, it's called Testimonium Flavium, antiquities of the
Jews, Book 18, Section 3, paragraph 3, where it goes, it's that, that's-
He would never have said that, never, I mean-
That's not how we know, the way we know, okay, okay, he would never say that's true,
because he was wasn't a Christian, he wouldn't say that, moreover, the early manuscripts don't
have him saying that much, it like grows and grows, the way we know for sure that that's an
interpolation, is that no one mentions it until the fourth century, until Eusebius, no one, and
people knew Josephus, Orgid knew Josephus, Jerome knew Josephus-
And they never mentioned it.
Zero, we know who invented it, they know-
They were apologists, they would have used it as their evidence, yeah-
Oh, you and, that was a big argument, Orgid writes a whole work that survives in this,
in an apologetic work against pagans who said, Jesus, they would of course appeal to it,
what survives from Jerome's work, not a lot, but his, but his defense of Christianity,
he would have, of course, quoted it, he never quoted it, we have 14 church fathers,
whose writings survive, who live prior to Eusebius, we live prior to the fourth century,
prior to Constantine, nobody quotes it, nobody quotes it, it didn't exist, at the time Eusebius,
that's where it enters into his histories, so he quotes it, so that's, he's not quoting, it's
manufactured, now, whether Eusebius, the historian of Christianity, just invented it, or his next
door neighbor did this, I can't tell you, nobody, nobody did that, but now-
It's obvious that someone would have said it.
That's how we know, this is, do not write to me that I'm arguing from silence,
Josephus wrote, there was a man, if anyone called him a man, who was the Christ,
who did many miracles and blah, blah, blah, blah, so you really think that, that Justin,
I don't think so, we're not going to quote that, so it's total insanity.
What about Jesus?
Oh, go ahead.
Yeah, go ahead.
I was going to say, Jesus been in anias, right, so I like probing on, and my big thing on myth
vision is, we're trying to figure out who Jesus was, if there was, because there's also the question
of, could this have been an invented character, so to speak, to try and fit this time frame,
for example, Jesus been in anias, the woe saying Jesus, right, he runs around, woe to you Israel,
and scribes and Pharisees, and Josephus has, and it's just my opinion, I could be wrong,
I'm not a scholar, but just, I've read it a few times, I had it read last time on our show,
it sounds very fictional, even coming from Josephus, because they've got this story,
where this Jesus character is saying, woe to you, woe to you, woe to you, and they take him in,
the scribes and Pharisees, or the scribes and the Sanhedrin, I can't remember what it said, but
they flog him, and it says he didn't make a peep, he didn't suffer, he showed no pain,
and every time they flogged him, he said, woe to you Israel, and then they flog him again,
woe to you such and such, and then they flog him again, and then at the end, they release him,
because they said he's insane, well, during the war, a catapult's coming, prior to the catapult,
they hit him, he's running around on the temple wall saying, woe to Israel, woe to, again, and this
catapult comes, and last but not least, the story says, he said, at his last, last thing he said
was, and woe to me, and then the catapult hits him, and so this narrative of woe, the woe saying
Jesus, I think was taken from Josephus, and used in the mouthpiece of this Jesus character in the
gospels, to be saying, woe to you Israel, woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, etc, etc, the only
thing missing is, he doesn't say woe to me, and he says, hey, don't weep for me, weep for your
children's children, we know that's the time of the temple, and it's supposed to-
Yeah, but that's only Luke's narrative, Mark's narrative, we have a different, only Luke's
passion narrative has Jesus saying that to the weeping women, weep for yourself, don't weep for me.
Right. What do you think though? Do you think that-
So, here's what we have to do there. Okay. So, we're dealing with literature from the ancient
world, okay, and the question is, what's your methodology? So, look at a text, you said this
correctly, it's just loaded with myth, front loaded with, but the question is, is there anything
historical in this myth? Right. And often there is just something historical, and then there's this
loaded with nonsense, like the Mormon church, like Joseph Smith, there's a little truth that
the guy was in New York State, whatever, there's just, all right, so here's the deal, you need a
methodology, can we use a methodology to figure out, is there anything historical in the text,
and what is your methodology, and is it rigorous, it better be rigorous, because I'm not a Christian,
but I might want to know. Now, I just want to say this upfront, this is not my issue as a rabbi,
because I address the question, is Jesus the promised Messiah or not? Right. If he's not,
it doesn't make a difference, he was a plumber. Now, but I will tell you, there are methods,
and some are very rigorous, and one is, let's call the criteria of dissimilarity, the criteria of
embarrassment, are there things in the Christian Bible that are really embarrassing, and therefore,
it's unlikely someone would have invented that. Okay, all right, so let me just, so that would
then be likely to be authentic, just a real quick example. Paul, as we find in the Christian Bible,
can't get along with anyone. Paul isn't fighting with Jews in the Christian Bible, he's fighting
with fellow Christians, who he believe are preaching a false gospel, whose Christology
is very different than his. He's fighting with everybody, he's showing Peter to his faith,
Galatians 2, okay, so Paul won't travel with John Mark. He's called a liar everywhere he goes.
Conversely, he's yelling at the people in Galatians chapter 3, verse 1 and 2,
who be with you, you slave, that means who filled your head with the stupidity. He's complaining
about other people who came to his church after he set it up, told them a Christology he disagreed
with, he hated the Torah, he hated the law, and he's going, now, stop for him, let's stop, because
we need to breathe this in, we need to really make sure this makes a lot of sense. We can't play games,
we've got to really use rigorous methodology. How likely is it that Paul really got along with
everybody? He had no fight with Peter, no fight with Mark, and somebody invented these fights
that he was having with fellow Christians who are his interlocutors. The answer is about zero,
why? Because it's embarrassing, no one would invent that Paul couldn't get along with you.
By the way, we all know people who just can't get along with people, right? It might be a sister
in law of yours, it might be someone you went to school with, someone down the block, we all know
people, it doesn't mean they're stupid, they're just people who just can't get along with other
people. You're at a party, there are a lot of people, and then that guy or that girl walks into
the room, everyone goes, oh god, here we go, this is going to be a nightmare. That's who Paul was,
Paul isn't getting along with anyone. You can believe that that whole thing is made up.
I'm not saying that, and I don't want to give that vibe, because I always keep the question open,
okay? I never close the door on it, though the probability to me, I think that this Paul character,
or whoever he really may have been, I think he was connected, in my opinion, based off what I see,
I think he's in cahoots with people in power. I think he is on the Roman side, he's protected by
the Romans, left and right, every time we turn around. That's right, we have a text in New
Testament says he was a citizen of Rome, I think unlikely, but very possible. So that's absolutely
could be the case. Certainly, it depends, you know, the depiction acts versus Paul's own writing,
versus the pseudopigrapher that we are told to leave, Paul wrote, but he would not have written,
like he was inconceivably wrote Second Timothy, or Ephesians, or the Timothy,
First Second Timothy, it's almost impossible for reasons that are beyond the scope of this whole
conversation. So here's what I want to go, okay? Let's take a city of Nazareth. What are the
chances someone would have just made up Nazareth? Well, it's very unlikely, because now there is
never mentioned in Tanakh, not in the Talmud, Josephus never mentions it. It's a little unlikely
that someone would have invented that. Here's one that's more interesting on that. In Jewish,
according to Jewish tradition, he existed. Okay, according to our tradition, there was somebody
who ultimately rebelled against his rabbi. And it just wasn't a happy affair. And he ultimately becomes
a someone who is from the Jewish people who just makes the fellow sages his enemy.
I'm oversimplifying, but that's basically the deal. Jesus or Paul? No, Jesus. Okay, okay.
Now, there are, I just want to full disclosure that a lot of arguments is the same Jesus,
but most of the consensus is that it is. Here's, I want to get to this very fine point.
According to our tradition, Jesus never claimed to be the Messiah. There's nowhere,
Jesus does not come off well in Jewish, ancient Jewish literature at all. It's a nightmare. I mean,
there's nothing good to be said about him, but they never say there's no place in any rabbinic
literature anywhere. And there's a lot that says that he was a false Messiah or a false prophet.
It isn't there. Okay, so again, in Jewish tradition, in the Talmud and so on, there's not,
there's a lot of criticism of him. A lot of things that he should have done differently
that he didn't do. What does not remain to this? So the Talmud is not a fan of Jesus at all, but
if Jesus was walking around saying that I'm the Messiah, that would have been,
the Talmud or Jewish literature would have mentioned that he was a false Messiah,
because that would have been a massive thing to claim that I'm, and by the way, to be sure that
this is a little bit of a big deal, in the Christian Bible, we are told that that's the
claim Jesus is making that gets him in all this trouble. He's claiming to be the Son of Man,
meaning he's claiming to be the personality of Daniel 7, 13, 14. You know, he's claiming to be
the Son of the Living God. I don't want to get far because we'll get lost. Just stay with me on this.
The writers of the Christian Bible were very aware of the fact that claiming to be the Messiah when
you're not is a really, is going to upset people. That's really a bad idea. People, that doesn't
be really a negative. Now, the Jewish tradition says he never made that claim, although Jewish
tradition does not see him favorably. Now, here's the rub. This is why I think it is authentic.
The Book of Mark has to hit you over the head. It's the earliest of the four Gospels,
and the Book of Mark is a small book. It's 16 chapters. The first eight chapters are very striking
because nobody knows who Jesus is. It's the big secret. If anybody figures out, Jesus goes,
don't tell anyone. The key of what we find in the Gospels is that no one knows who that Jesus is,
and in fact, at the end of the game, Jesus turns around. This is right before the crucifixion,
says, who was he asking? He's not asking people in Bermuda. He's asking his own disciples,
who do you think I am? Who do you think I am? And this is after his entire ministry. That
means we're at the end of the game. The movie is just about over, and he turns to the people who
are around him. Now, the length of his ministry differs from the synoptics to one year, John to
three years. It makes no difference. They were around him a long time, and nobody knows that's
the key. I use that prophet. Nobody knows except for Peter. Peter, Matthew 16, it says,
you are the Christ of some living God. And then Jesus responds that flesh and blood didn't reveal
this to you. The point what we find in the Gospels, and this is most pronounced in Mark,
the least embellished gospel, is that no one knows who Jesus is, and no one thinks he's the Messiah.
And therefore, what is the likelihood, and listen very carefully, what is the likelihood
that Jesus really walked around saying that he's the Messiah, and someone who's writing the Christian
Bible, whoever wrote it, one of the people to believe in Jesus, the Messiah, John says, this
was written that you might believe, and they thought, no, we'll just make up this, that Jesus,
that no one knew who Jesus was. Why? That's very embarrassing. Therefore, the most likely,
the best possible explanation is Jesus never claimed to be the Messiah. Rather, there was a
claim made for him after he was dead. By disciples or people that followed him. Well, I can do that
story with you. That means we can figure, we could tease that out. But again, is everything
possible? Of course it is. This is how critical studies have done of ancient texts. How could
you figure out what is historical in this text? There are things that are just so embarrassing
that no one would have invented. Those are the things that are just so embarrassing that it
does nothing to bolster your story. It only diminishes from it. And therefore, it's more
likely, that's all we have, is more likely to be historical. It is more likely that you have
some Itarian fellow going around who just has it in with fellow Jews. He develops a small group
of people around them, and he's never claimed to be the Messiah. Rather, once he's killed, because
I talk about this in my introduction to Isaiah 53, that ultimately the Romans find him
threatening in some way. Because if he was crucified, he wasn't crucified for molesting
children. He was crucified for threatening the empire. And that's the deal. That is the methodology
that historians use that is very rigorous. It's non-spectacular. Now, it's true that all the
virgin birth stuff, we know that to be embellishments. What you said, Derek, earlier is that is
loaded with embellishments. How do we know? Maybe because we're not Christians. We're just
saying things that are not flattering. We know it because the earliest weddings of the New Testament,
the letters of Paul, the authentic letters of Paul, indisputed letters, those seven letters,
are all written during the 50s. There's not a mention of Jesus being one of virgin. Paul didn't
think that was important. Important enough to mention Mark, earliest gospel. We're introduced to Jesus
as an adult. Mark just didn't think that Jesus' birth, born of a virgin, was important. That's
inconceivable. So, yeah, there we see the layers of mythology. And the way we do that is a different
quick, that it's inconceivable that Jesus walking around saying, I and the Father are one, as we're
told in John chapter 30, John chapter 10, verse 30, 31. And just Matthew didn't think that was
important enough to mention. That's how we can see the layers and layers of embellishments. And
where they would have come up with it is exactly what you said. They saw what Josephus would have
seen. They saw the scene that everyone's and it's scared people to death. Imagine for a moment,
living in a world where you saw people dying on crosses, bodies being eaten by scare. I mean,
all you'd be saying to yourself is, I never want that to be me. I'll tell you just a fast thing.
I remember sometimes in America, I've been living in the United States for a while, but
they have this show like cops and what happens to people living in prison, right? They have these
shows and you see these people living in lock up, right? They have to be in a cell 23 hours a day.
For five years straight in solitary confinement.
Let's talk you and me. Okay. We're watching that show. Okay. And what do we think? We're eating
popcorn. I never want that to happen to me. No matter what, I'll do parking tickets. I might speed,
but I am not. That is not going to be me. So whatever bad idea you might have about doing,
you're going to go, Whoa, I do not want to be locked up in a cage for 10 years and be
raped up and down. God only knows what goes on. God only know you're saying,
you know, I mean, me, I made up my mind when those shows came out. I'm going to make sure
I have a good account of those two of my taxes. I'm not, I'm just, I'm just not going to jail.
That's just not going to be my scene. So now that's just a television. Imagine you see dead
people or dying people. The message is clear. Don't mess with the empire. That's what the empire
was interested in. The threats of the empire. So that's how people can use. That's the methodology
that I've shared with you that we use to say with a fair amount of certainty, this is likely to be
historical. And I know this isn't going to be answerable in the full extent. I suspect you'll
have to speculate, but help me because this is a mystery to me, Rabbi. If you don't mind me asking.
Paul, according to scholars, say he wrote in the 50s. We have the gospel narratives that most
say came after Pauline literature. And they kind of piggyback Paul in a lot of ways, but somewhat
not. Some places they do, probably most, but somewhat not. Now here's my question. If Jesus
dies in actual history in the 30s, or maybe around that time when Pontius Pilate was in
in reign, and he reigned for 10 years, I believe, somewhere around there, 12 years, 12 30s. Okay.
So how in such short amount of time under Pontius Pilate to Paul, do we have a Christology of a
death burial resurrection concept being already circulated and believed by him, but not only
Pauline type Christians, quote unquote, but other types of Christians that were teaching other types
of gospels, which I guess, and I might be speculating, I suspect they had a belief in Jesus too,
because he's arguing supposedly with Peter and James. And these guys are going back and forth
about this guy rose from the dead. Like how I can, I can do this whole thing for you if you got the
time. It's up to you. Do you want to do this as a part two? I'll, I will do this with you, because
this is very interesting. And I just like everything you've asked me, I said, okay, here's our sources
in there. So do you want it? I'll do it. We'll do it. I'm, I would have never been able to.
Yeah, go ahead. So you tell me what you want to do. I'm following you, whatever you're
interested in. You could turn this in. Well, by the way, you'll edit this part out.
You could turn this show into two, part one, part two, if you want. Absolutely. I'm going to have
to. Okay. You're going to have to. So I'll, I'll answer because we're smoking now and I don't want
to stop. This is good. This is good. I love, by the way, I want to say this too. I really do,
I, I feel a connection to you as a brother and I really appreciate everything you're bringing
to the table. Like you really are teaching me and I really enjoy this, by the way. I just want to
let you know that it is fascinating and I feel the same way there, but and bless you and really.
So all right, let's go back here. So, so I would have never been able to completely unpack this
until I moved to Indonesia. So this is the point about my life. I was the rabbi of Indonesia for
five years. Okay. I lived in the Far East for five years. And in the Far East is really a very
different place. I mean, it's not like you're from wherever in the West Coast. So you go to Ohio and
then you go to Queens, New York. It's the same thing. It's the same. And if you ever go to Australia,
it's different, but it's not really. But the Far East is really very different. What happens?
I would, what happens is that so Indonesia is famous for many reasons, including its largest
Muslim country in the world, 240 million Muslims. Okay. As it turns out, its minority Christian
community is enormous, roughly 25 million Christians live in Indonesia, the fourth largest
country in the world. Indonesia also, as is the whole Far East, is very religious. I have never
met an atheist in Indonesia. And if you were, they'd look at you like you're out of your mind.
It's a soup. There's a lot of superstition. But to say, I don't believe in God. I never heard
of such a thing. And that's just not only true for Indonesia, the same thing for Malaysia,
same thing for the Philippines, Thailand. Everybody's got a religion as a religious place.
Now, I want to talk about the Christians. What happens? So there are many people who are part
of my congregation in Indonesia who used to belong to a mega church in Indonesia. There's quite a
number of them like in the US. There are these pastors who are very charismatic and they could
pack in a stadium and have 30,000 people in their church. 40,000 people. They have a guy like that
in Houston, right? We need to come out of the airport. I forget. Prosperity preachers. You got
all these guys. They're mega church pastors. Indonesia had one guy. Now, I don't recall his
real name, but he was called Peter the Great. Okay. He was a very charismatic guy. I don't
know the numbers, so I'm going to, but it's something on the order of he had 30, 40,000
people in this church. Okay. He was the hottest thing. They would just pack in stadiums for this guy.
He was huge and he was a prosperity preacher like Joel Ulstein, but much worse. People would
give them all their money, their gold. And I had Jewish people who got involved in these churches
who later regret it. I gave this guy so much money. I threw away and these guys, of course,
live like kings. You know the whole deal. They're all over the United States. These prosperity
preachers give me all your money. It's a whole thing is a that's what this guy was. This guy,
he had some Indonesian name. Even I knew it, but I wouldn't have not have pronounced it. The key is
he's, he's this good looking, you know, he's just great polished. Just really got his act together.
He would be there on stage in the stadium with 30, 40,000 people. The place is going nuts. He's
promised them promising them. He's going to take them to Jerusalem and we're, I'm going to bring
Jesus's second coming. The whole thing, the whole thing. What happens? What happens? Check this out.
So this is the biggest guy in the whole scene. I think he was 48, something like that. Means
he's not an old guy. He suddenly has a massive heart attack and drops dead. He just has just,
he just drops dead like that. So he went from promising is taking Indonesian Christians
to Jerusalem with this whole future and give me your money. And he's the people, you know,
his prayer club, the whole thing. You see it all over America.
The guy just drops dead. He's not that old. I remember something like being in his late 40s.
What happens? The place goes nuts. His funeral was unbelievable. His grave is like, I don't know
what is made to look like Jerusalem. The key is this within days of his burial.
People just can't, these followers can't wrap their brains around this immediately.
All these women and this, by the way, what you're about to hear is totally politically incorrect.
And if you are offended, do not watch the show now. Watch. I love Lucy. This is not for you. Okay.
This is just what happens. I'm going to say it. The facts. And just don't do what you want. Okay.
But this is just, this like blew my mind. Suddenly, it happens within days of his burial
that women are saying that Peter the Great appeared to them all over the place. He came to me. The
only problem is what he said he's going to do. Everyone's disagreeing about it. But the point
is it happened to me. I'm going, wow, that means the guy just died and he's appearing. He's having
pancakes with people in Java. You know, he's meeting these ladies and he's meeting them and
they're encountering the resurrected Peter the Great. Some deal like that. Now, Indonesia is
right next door to the Philippines, which is a Catholic country. There are women there that are
meeting the Virgin Mary every day for lunch. It's a big deal. Now I'm going to say this. I'm not
trying to be provocative, but let's live in the real world. Right. I've never done a study of this.
This is all anecdotal, but almost all of them are women. Okay. I don't hear many guys saying the
Virgin Mary came to me. Maybe they are and I just not hearing about it. But it's basically
women and kids. Look at the lords. Look at all of them. Whatever it is, God made women a little
different. I don't know what it is. I haven't studied it, but I know what I see. This is all
anecdotal, but it's everywhere. And if you're watching the show, you know, so what I saw was, oh,
people are most traumatized at the burial. I don't know if you've ever been to a burial,
but watching a burial is very traumatic. It's because it becomes real. Okay. And then immediately
afterwards, people are having visions of them all over and they're usually actually, I don't even
remember one story of a guy who met him, only women. Not I'm saying there are it. I didn't study it.
It just, that's what I stole all over the place. He's meeting everybody in a post. He's
resurrecting in some spiritual way, coming to visiting people all over the place. And I'm going,
wow, not only didn't take long, the closer you were to the death, the more likely is you're
going to find people running around saying that he met me. We have the same story of a guy in India
who was enormously popular. His name is Sai Sai Baba, who had 11 million followers, resurrected
the dead in front of stadiums of people, but he'll blind people. Sai Baba, look him up. He just died
just a couple years ago. There are people around. He has 30 million followers today.
They're all claiming he's visiting them day and night. This is the thing. He resurrected dead
people, healed blind people in front of millions, thousands of people, millions on television,
and you can watch a YouTube videos all over the place. You don't need a new test and for this.
Right. So, so here's the number one. You don't need, it's not like you need a progression of a lot
of time for when someone's favorite rabbi spiritual leader, whatever, dies, where the story develops
slowly. It's just the opposite. It's the trauma of the immediacy that sparks. People just don't
know how to process it. Is he dead? I mean, it's over. I'll never see him again. And that means
everything or is this thing in and out continue on in a new spiritual body? First Corinthians 15.
So that's stage one. So people get caught up. Well, how could it take it so long? Paul left
well, became a Christian just a few years after. It's just the opposite. The closer you are, the
more likely it is. You could probably be running around. What happened to our guy from the galley
now? Now, stage two, we got to, we got to fit. I wanted to say one thing on that note, though.
There is a, I can't remember, and I probably butcher in this, maybe our audience who's watching
can comment down below. They've done some type of research and they actually have a statistic
on people who experience their loved one in some way after they died, like what you're talking about.
I suspect there's some science behind why we experience these things. But nonetheless,
regardless, they, they say like a good percentage of people, regardless, have that
15% of healthy people see either a loved one or a religious figure appear to them in some way.
That's that's right. And you know, I've dreamt my favorite person in the world
is my grandmother, blessed memory. I've had quite a few times where I dreamt where
she's communicating. She's not community. She's dead. Right. It's a dream. Right. But she was so
important to my life that they are just, it's sort of like a movie in my mind that plays when I was
sleeping. I mean, the numbers must be hard. Now, I didn't wake up and go, my grandmother was there.
I got it. Some people sort of, the line is, this is really simple. Do you fall into that healthy
category? No, I'm just kidding with you. I am a schizophrenic and somebody for whatever reason
decided to put a chip into my head. And the CIA is following everything I'm doing, even though I'm
an Israel. That said, here's, here's the other heaven. That means who's behind this. Right.
