Welcome back ladies and gentlemen to MythVision Podcast, your host Derek Lambert.
Today I'm going to have Rabbi Tovia Singer, a Hebrew speaking, born to speak and read
Hebrew Jew who's going to take us through the Septulegent over against the Hebrew
Masoretic Text. We deal into a lot of topics on this show so stay tuned. This
is going to be a two-part series and I plan on doing more with him. We also talk
about Paul and Paul's version of Jesus' resurrection. What is that? There's a
variety of topics. This is a unique show. We haven't done this one before. Hope you
guys like this. Subscribe and let us know if you have any ideas. I'm listening.
We are MythVision. I have Rabbi Tovia Singer, the king of the Jews with me today.
How are you doing Rabbi? That's good. I like that. Let's say I'd appreciate if you
would continue to refer to me in that way. It's wonderful being here and I'm
in Jerusalem, which is the real Jerusalem, not the fake ones that they have. There are
like a number of cities in America that have the name Jerusalem. I'm really just
right now taking over for it. I'm in Jerusalem. It's great to see you, Derek.
I'm glad we're able to get together like this. It's wonderful. I am too and you've
caught my eye for quite some time while I was surfing through YouTube. A long time
ago, I got to hit our audience acquainted real quick. I'm sure most, if not all of them,
know who you are. At the same time, I'm going to give my backdrop. I remember when I was
studying William Lane Craig and the apologetics as a Christian. I saw this DVD that I bought
at the Christian bookstore. There you were arguing with William Lane Craig. What was
that debate over? What was the topic on? The doctrine of the Trinity. William Lane
Craig. He's a very nice fellow and we were on air doing a debate as it turns out on a
Christian station. He's a very fine man. He's a nice thing to say about him and he's a leading
Christian apologist. I'm probably the only Jew. When I say Jew, I mean Jewish Jew as
opposed to the non-Jewish Jew. You know what I'm talking about. I'm not like Bernie
Sanders Jew. Anyway, so we debated the doctrine of the Trinity on what was it called. I forgot
the faith on fire. What was called Christ for the, I don't know, whatever, faith on fire. We
had a really good time. It was very exciting. On my channel, I'll actually give you the video.
You can upload it on your channel. So we had a really good time talking about the doctrine of
the Trinity. And it was very important for the listeners, the viewers to understand that the
doctrine of the Trinity is a Christian invention and it's also idolatry because it's a core doctrine
of the church that encourages people to worship a man as God.
The Torah said, it is amazing. So the Torah explicitly says, numbers 23 verse 19,
God is not a man. He won't lie. He's not immortal. He will not change his mind. Psalm 146 verse 3.
It's very beautiful in Hebrew. Do not put your trust in princes or the son of man
where there's no salvation. I mean, it's so explicit. I'm not a man. So it's irrelevant
whether you want to philosophically wonder, can God come in the form of a man? The Torah,
which all Christians agree is the word of God says, it'll never happen. Like just like,
you know, Catholics can argue, well, I can just pray to the statue and God, if he wants to,
can manifest himself in an icon if I'm Greek or whatever. But the Torah says, just don't worship
statues. And if someone's doing it, stay away far away from it. And he's really a very interesting
fellow. And we had a really good time. But as it turns out, most Christians just really never
rarely read the Jewish scripts. Now, though read isolated stories for sure, that means
certainly Christians are reading about creation. They're certainly reading about the flood,
the reading about Abraham. Of course they are. But virtually, I'm not saying none, but very rarely
does a Christian ever have read the book of Isaiah from beginning to end. I mean, studied it.
66 chapters or 52 chapters of Jeremiah, 48 chapters, they just don't. And even the few
studious that do, and it's very rare, there's some that do. They're certainly not trained in Hebrew.
That means they're reading it through a utterly corrupt translation. Not all translations are
manmade. But these Christian translations are deliberately corrupted. They alter what it says
in the original Hebrew scriptures, so that the Jewish Bible appears Christological. This is a
nightmare for Christians. Rabbi, you bring up a good point. And this is where I'd like to
probe. I think this is going to be good. Our audience will appreciate this. So, and we might as
well start where this begins and develop. I saw a video where you had a gentleman who was a Christian
who was trying to, you know, stand up for Christ. And he brought up that they will pierce my hands
and my feet using Old Testament scripture. Well, I'm sorry if I refer, and your audience may hear
me say this, coming from a Judeo-Christian background, I use terms like Old Testament,
and I hope it's no big deal. Just no, no one will. The only thing is the Jews will hate you,
and besides that, it's fine. If there's nothing really, I mean, Jews 15 million, besides that,
you get the Eskimos won't care. It's you're doing fine. And that's your core audience is the Eskimo
and Luxembourg, they won't care. So you're fine. The Jews are going to hate you. And besides that,
you're going to be just fine. So you're absolutely right. So what happens is that
if you grew up in the Christian world, you the viewer, I want you to listen very carefully,
because I'm not making this up. So virtually no Christian school in America, none. In America,
the United States is a very religious country and teaches Hebrew to Christian children.
If you want to learn Hebrew, you'll do the Moody Bible Institute when you're 20. You could take
Hebrew at Christ for the nations and taxes, but you're not going to get that in like a Jewish
kid does. So this is very important because all Christians believe, they believe that the Bible,
the Hebrew Bible is written in Hebrew. And that's the original language is a sacred language that
God conveyed eternal messages through the prophets to the world, create the world with the Hebrew
language. And they're taught languages like Spanish and even more interesting Latin, that's useful.
They're learning Latin, like what am I, who is that for, like to speak to a guitar?
Where does that come up? So this is an insanity in the church. That's why I feel bad for Christians,
because they have no access to the original. So let's talk about this. Let's probe into that,
because you bring up a point of the Septulegent. And as Christians who come at this, they're
thinking, hey, the Septulegent is older. I mean, look, the New Testament literally uses the Septulegent
as its source, they say. Now you mentioned something, and I don't want to steal your thunder.
Never steal my thunder. I don't ever, because I'm not that secure. If you steal my thunder,
I'll be in therapy for years. Let me just stop here. Just watch the thunder.
Yeah. So, so first, I want just people understand the setting. I don't like going to churches and
start bothering Christians. I'm lecturing in Jerusalem to a fairly, to a packed door. It's
not like I went to an Episcopalian church and started up with Hillary Clinton. I was just doing
my thing in a synagogue. But I, a lot of Christians come to my lectures. As it turns out, there was
a fellow, he doesn't like to call himself a Christian, incidentally, this fellow likes to
call himself a believer in Yeshua, whatever. The key is, so he raised his hand and began to
challenge what I was saying. And he, he wanted to show me that in the Jewish Bible, in the Hebrew
Bible, it explicitly describes the crucifixion, for example, and he coded Psalm 22, verse 16. Now,
a caution for you, the viewer who want, you're watching the show. So this is just a little
technical point, so no one's confused. If you look up this passage in a Christian Bible,
it appears as Psalm 22, verse 16. If, on the other hand, you use a Jewish Bible, I mean just
published by a Jewish publisher, it, the same verse appears as verse 17. It's the same thing. Why
is not important? It's the inhibit that's, whether it gets counted. So Psalm 22, 16 in the Christian
Bible reads, dogs have encompassed me, a company of evildoers have enclosed me.
And now, in a Christian Bible, it says, they pierced my hands and my feet. Yeah, yeah. That
sure does sound like a crucifixion. I saw my Lord and Savior there when I was reading it as a
Christian. You know what I mean? So yeah, I feel you. Now, and so now, now here's an interesting
thing that most people don't notice. Okay. And I pointed out, this is never quoted in the Christian
Bible. And that should make your, you just start thinking, if it really said that in the Hebrew,
did the writers of the New Testament just didn't think that was important enough to mention that's
inconceivable. Now you understand why the text doesn't say this at all. The original Hebrew,
the original Hebrew says that first of all, King David wrote this. King David's the author of this.
He's speaking the first person. He's not saying, in the future, this will happen to someone.
He describes wild animals, wild dogs have encompassed me, evildoers, because he's betrayed
in every side. And now the last three words are critical. In Hebrew, it says,
Kaari, Yodai Varagley, three words, Kaari. So what does that mean? Well, I'll give you like this. So
Ari means a lion. If you remember when George W. was president, he had a press secretary,
his name was Ari Fleischer. And occasionally you see him stolen news. Yeah. Yeah, Ari Fleischer.
What does his name mean? Ari means a lion. This is really, this is like so, this is an animal
that as you could imagine appears very frequently in the Jewish scriptures. So Kaari, the prefix
means like a lion, Yodai, my hands, Varagley, my feet. Like a lion, all my enemies are at my
hands, my feet. What does the church do? It's mind blowing. So imagine you've got these words
like a lion, my hands and my feet. And you've got a Microsoft word. You selected the words
like a lion. So you have now white letters on the blue background. Okay. You tap your delete
key. They disappear. And then you type in, they pierced. The text now is made to read,
they pierced my hands and my feet. And so the Jewish scripture, the Hebrew Bible,
listen very carefully is going to be offensive, was raped. I selected that word was raped
by the church, not by these innocent sweet Baptist from Arkansas. These young men and
women have no idea this has been done was altered by the church in order to make it appear
Christological. This was done in the second century, a very long time ago. Christians are not
walking around going, Oh, I'm really lying here. They really believe it says they pierced me in
the right feet. Now, now here's the caveat. You mentioned the Septuagint.
So the if you pose this to a Christian, if you go to your pastor and say,
you say, Hey, what's going on here? I heard a rabbi say that in the original Hebrew, it says,
like a liner out of my other feet. What's the deal? Why does it say this in my King James?
So this I guarantee you is going to happen and say, well,
in the Septuagint, which is a very old translation of the Hebrew Bible into Greek older than
Christ, that's what you're going to hear it. And it says they pierced my hands and my feet. And
it's true. But here's what's not true. Here's the scam. Here's the show game. Here's how you deal
from the bottom of the deck. Again, a warning, your pastor is not trying to deal from the bottom
of the deck. He is taught this in seminary. They all get this. So your pastor is not an evil guy,
heaven forbid. This is standard fair in seminary. They're told that the writers of the New
Testament or in this case, not in the New Testament, most Christians don't even realize that
they were just following this ancient Greek translation of the Bible. Now, what's the story
about the Septuagint? You can hear the Latin word Septuagint, you hear 70. As the story goes,
2200 years ago or so, 70 or 72, there's a reason it's not important why there's a difference.
It's numerological, but yeah. Just to say 72 learned men. We have a lot of ancient sources. This
is real. This is real. This is very real. The Septuagint, but you have to listen very carefully.
So 2200 years ago, a Greek king of Egypt wanted to have for his library in Alexandria
a translation of the Torah of Moses, of the five books of Moses, of the Pentateuch.
He took 70 or 72 great learned men. We know this. We know it's from 50 sources,
and they translated the Torah. That means the Pentateuch. That means the five books of Moses
into the Greek language. That was the first time that we know of that the Hebrew Bible
was ever translated into a foreign language. Now, here's, I'm going to call it the skin,
but I want you to just don't go back to your pastor and start yelling at him because your
pastor doesn't know any better. He's, I'm sure, a good guy who's a terrific lady. This is what
they're told. So what happens is, is they say, ah, so in that Septuagint, these learned rabbis
translated Psalm 22 verse 16 as pierced. That's the scam. The original Septuagint was only the
five books of Moses. The book of Psalms is not part of the five books of Moses. The book of Psalms
is in the writings part of the Jewish scriptures. The Hebrew Bible is divided to three major sections.
That's why it's called Tanakh. The Torah, the five books of Moses. That's the law of Moses.
You have the prophetic writings, and that would begin with Joshua and then with the book of
Malachi. And then you have the writings, the wisdom literature, which includes the book of Psalms,
Proverbs, and so on. So this section of the Bible was never translated by those rabbis into Greek.
It's nonsense. What happens later is that eventually there'll be demand throughout Egypt,
we're, and throughout the empire where Greek is the lingual Franca, let's render the whole
Hebrew Bible into Greek, and the church is going to do this. The most important figure
in all these translations that many of them produces is going to be origin. Origin is a
third century church father. Everything I'm telling you is standard scholarship. There's
no conspiracy here. I haven't read Wikipedia. I guarantee you go on there. It's all there.
I have about five chapters in my books. I'm not trying to sell books. I have loads of
chapters covering this from every angle. We're going to be putting it on the description,
by the way. So if anyone's interested, please go there and check it out. And I know you didn't
want me to, but I'm going to... No, no, no. You can do it. It's fine. It's all good. It's all good.
So here's what happens. So there are loads of these Greek translations that are produced most
by the church. Incidentally, what I'm telling you is also in the preface of the King James Bible.
If you ever King James... I know you can go, really? Really? If you go to the preface of
your King James Version, the preface is the original preface done in 1611. If you google
preface of the King James 1611, the original 47 translators of the King James who were commissioned
in 1607 produced the authorized version in 1611 on behalf of the Church of England. They tell you
everything I'm telling you. They say this, and that's why they didn't rely on the Septuagint,
in most cases, except if there's a Christology, they did, because they wanted the Jesus thing in
there. These guys are responsible. Those guys from Cambridge and Oxford, they knew what they were
doing because they did know the Hebrew, and they deliberately abandoned the Hebrew in favor
of the church fathers. So now here's... This is the only last part. I want you guys to get this.
Every time somebody, whether it's in the first century, second century, third century, would
produce their Greek translation, what do you think they would call it? They wouldn't call
Harry's translation. They wouldn't call it Stacey's translation, because who's Stacey? Who's Harry?
But everybody knew that there was one Septuagint. So every Greek translation takes the
name Septuagint, because that's the name. That's the name that has it. So the name becomes
genericized. So every subsequent Greek translation is called a Septuagint. So therefore, the Septuagint
that you can buy on Amazon right now, or order, or get it online, you could read those PDFs everywhere,
those are from the third century. Those are done by origin. Origin was only one of two
church fathers. You're going to find this hard to believe. Of all the church fathers, only two
were completely fluent in Greek and Hebrew. Two. That's it. Origin, third century, Jerome, fourth
slash fifth century. Jerome, of course, is the primary translator of the Vulgate. Those are the
only two who are completely conversant in Hebrew. No one else, not Augustine, not Tertulli, none of
them were. None. Zero. So therefore, when you are told in church that, oh, the New Testament
writers relied on Septuagint, there is no mention of a Septuagint in the New Testament. That's
only thing they could do, because there's a lot of two possibilities here. Either Matthew wasn't
telling the truth when he said, this is to fill what it says in the prophets and,
and, you know, a virgin will conceive and have a son and they will call his name Emmanuel,
Matthew 123. It doesn't say that in Isaiah. So the Septuagint, the King James and the Septuagint,
most of them, not all, they just change Isaiah so it comports with Matthew's mistranslation.
So that's where the, that's where the Septuagint comes in. For example, Matthew
contains what are called fulfillment citations. Let's just make this really easy.
And none of the other Gospels do this. Matthew says, this is something that happened to Jesus,
and this is not an arbitrary event, but it's a film what was prophesied in Scripture. And then
he'll quote the Hebrew Bible, but he's not really quoting it. So in Matthew 123, very famously,
Matthew says, this the fill which was spoken of the Lord, but, you know, of the prophets saying that
behold, a virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel. That's what
it says in Matthew. Now, if you're watching this and you're a Christian, you've got to be asking
yourself a rudimentary question. Like, didn't the Jews notice this? Are they insane? Like,
does it really say that in Isaiah? Are the Jews just, I know every group has a few nutjobs, but
didn't the Jews, I mean, because they read the Bible in the original Hebrew. I,
Hebrew was my first language. Every Orthodox religious kid, they're toward Hebrew right from the
get-go. If you're an American, Hebrew, English, bilingual. Okay? So like, why don't Jews believe
in this if it's so explicitly there? And I know Christians ask this question and wonder this,
because pastors, who are friends of mine, tell me that that's a question that there is very
frequently. Why don't the Jews accept Christ? If it is in fact so explicitly in the Hebrew Bible,
prophesies, Matthew says, why aren't the Jews just breaking down the door to churches and say,
baptize me, sprinkle the water on? Well, the reason is because it doesn't say this stuff in the
original Hebrew. And the creators of the Septuagint, who were church fathers of our Septuagint,
the most important contributor to it is origin. This is not, this is not like my theory.
This is not like what Jews are going around saying, because we don't want anyone to be
angry at us. This is, we know this. Origin created a hexapla, which meant a multi, a polyglot, a
multi-column book that contained the Hebrew, the Greek, so on and so forth. We know where it comes
from. And he therefore, every Christology, every text that the Christians were using say, aha,
that's about Jesus. He then put that in the Greek text. He couldn't change the Hebrew, but he sure
could change the Greek translation, which would then be used to produce the subsequent translations.
Now, Jerome did not like the Septuagint. Augustine couldn't stand them for that reason.
But occasionally, even the Vulgate would follow these Christologies, because Jerome
didn't want, he needed the Pope's stamp approval, which he received. He surely couldn't
make it look too Jewish. So this was, so technically, and I kind of want to ask you a question after I
kind of make this point. It's like, it seems like an apologetic hat trick, so to speak. Like, let me
make sure that I have more weight on my Christianity than, then, because there are probably a lot of
people who are opposing, and I suspect a lot of Jewish people who are saying, hey, that's not the
case. And they're making sure their book matches their Christianity. Now, because they're taking
yours and they're hijacking, or I say yours in terms of the Jewish Bible, and they're hijacking it to
make it thwart or convert to their idea. Now, my question is, the authors of the New Testament,
it's been my opinion, and I mean, I can't prove it, it's just my speculation. I am of the opinion
at the earliest you get a Gospels after the Temple's destruction, okay, and I would say after the
war, okay, that would be my opinion. I go with scholarship, like, critical scholarship.
That's pretty standard. That means Mark is written about the Erecephani at the time of
the destruction of the Second Temple. That's very, that's standard.
Is it possible that the Gospels were written in the second century around the time this Septulegent
makeup was taking place? That's a question I have. And what time during the second century
was the Septulegent being played? This is a brilliant, brilliant, really, a very brilliant
question. So it is extremely unlikely that the Gospels were written in the second century.
There was a thing that John might have, but because of the discovery of a papyrus called P52,
which is really early second century, meaning about the year 130, so now conventional wisdom
says that we'll attribute John, which everyone knows in the last Gospels, to about 95. So that
would put all the Gospels in the first century. Now, that doesn't mean that our version of Matthew
is what people looked at in the year 90. That doesn't mean that-
They just found a piece of something and they speculate, right?
We have, of the entire second century, you got to take a deep breath on this one.
There are only 12 fragments. That's all we have from the second century. 12, that's it.
P52 is one of them. It's only in the third century that we begin to have a considerable number of
Greek manuscripts that are part of what today are nearly 6,000, but there's virtually nothing
them. The reason why you could be short, reasonably certain, that some version of the Gospels existed
in the first century is they weren't dealing with the problems that would emerge later.
For instance, the pastoral epistles of Paul are virtually certainly not from the hand of Paul,
and one of the reasons we know that books like First and Second Temple, they are,
they're addressing problems that would emerge in probably very early second century.
But here's why what you said is really quite exquisite, brilliant. What's happening,
it's not like Origen's the first guy to come along and go, okay, we got to fix things up here.
He was a very bright guy. We're going to go and do a whole new Greek translation
and to cover the fingerprints, like someone who robs a house has to use bleach or whatever,
and no, so you're right. What's happening is that already in the second and in the second century,
before Origen, and certainly in the first century, the time of the New Testament,
is written, or the bulk of it is written, people are already producing Greek translations that are
already comporting with Christologies. In fact, in the preface that I mentioned to the King James
Version, meaning 47 men of good standing in the Church of England are hired. These are really
bright, bright guys, and they're from Cambridge and Oxford, and they are commissioned to translate
the Bible into the English language. In that time, the English language was Jacobian English.
That's what the original King James was. They write this in their preface. In their preface,
they are complaining about the Septuagint, explaining why the Septuagint is so problematic,
and they don't want to rely on it. Why? One of the arguments that they put forward, these are not
Jewish guys. These are not guys who want to make rabbis look good. They say, why were there so many
Septuagints produced? That means we have Septuagints already going. That means people are producing
Greek translations even the first century BCE, first century, second century. We have fragments.
That means they're changing them, and everyone keeps doing another one to give you a sense of
what's going on. I want your viewers to get this. Just like today, how many Christian Bibles are being
produced? You have the new international version. You have a new version of that. You have the
revised standard. The ESV is the hottest thing today, and then this one, the new American,
which do you use? You use an NIV. You're the worst person in the world because only an idiot
is the NIV. And they made Satan and Jesus the morning star. The NIV was edited by a lesbian.
I'm not kidding. There's all this stuff that's going on. So those who want to know know that
there's a whole anti-NIV going. There are guys going that the King James is divinely inspired in
only King James, even though the King James was revised multiple times since the early 17th century,
because Jacobian English, it's legible, but it doesn't work. So it was revised in the 18th
century and 17th, I think, 69 and 18th. It was revised many times over. They have a new King
James. The point is, just like you're watching the show, so you're a native English speaker,
there are so many. Everybody is just producing a new Christian Bible. So what's happening is,
and they're similar and they're using a feature of some previous ones. Incidentally, this is not a
big secret, the translators of the King James Bible relied on the Tyndale Bible that preceded it,
relied on the Bishops Bible that preceded it. They didn't like start out of Hulk cloth. If they
thought that there was a previous English Bible that had a great idiom, a turn of a phrase,
they used it. So that's what happened with the Septuagint. And ultimately, by the end of the
third century, let's say fourth century for sure, that would have the Septuagint that we're using
today. Yeah, that's what I was going to ask you, Rabbi. That's what I was going to poke in for
our audience too. And my question was, and you answered it, I think quite well, is that we had a
evolution of of Septuagint, so to speak, that took place. And that's why I was going to say,
because if it and I was trying to not be so black and white, because you said third centuries when
like, almost like the final like, we're really getting somewhere with. Yeah, once you have origin,
you have your really your list guy who can do it. Remember what I said earlier?
Origin is only one of two church fathers that were completely conversant in Hebrew.
This is a very big deal, because I want you to know this, whoever you are watching the show,
you and if you've ever been a Christian, you know that your pastor, he may know a few words
of Hebrew, because he has to take like two, I don't know, like two semesters of Hebrew,
let's say it, whatever, wherever you go, you generally have to take so he can recognize
the letters, he's a little more studious, they can read it. 99.9% of Christian pastors wouldn't
know Hebrew if we hit them over the head, they because they never taught it, they're not bad
people, they just can't. And even those, I'll tell you a secret, I'd never talk about it, I don't
want to, I'm not trying to embarrass anyone. Even the guys, I'm not talking guys who actually
are professors of Old Testament, those guys really can like fluently read Hebrew, they hopefully can,
but the guys who are like PhD New Testament guys who they tell you taught classes in biblical
Hebrew, they can recognize the words and translate a few of them, but if you ask them,
could you put together, assemble a simple paragraph, a five sentence paragraph using
rudimentary biblical Hebrew, they would say to you, I can't, try it out, they can't, it's again,
please, this is what I want to just get through everybody's head. There's not some conspiracy
today, today they have no idea, but here's the deal. So the King James Version, the so-called
Authorized Version, is the most famous translation in the English language of the Bible, we all know
that, imagine if every subsequent Bible that came out just called itself the King James Version,
imagine so the guys who made the NIV, the New American Standard or Vice Standard or the RSV,
imagine if they just all called the name of their Bible the King James Version, that's what happened.
Okay, I got you, and that's why the New Testament, this is something I wanted to like probe and we
can move to another subject as in the idea of how the Septulegents differ, and I want to get into
some maybe elements about that, because before we get there, I just wanted to say I've always heard
the New Testament used the Septulegent more than it did any Hebrew, so it's obvious that these are
Greek writers, Greek readers, they're using some version, maybe not the final version.
I gotta say this, I gotta say this, I gotta say this, Derek, you gotta hear this.
If you've ever been a Christian, if you're watching this show, listen like you've never
listened in your life. I'm listening, because I want to be clear that I'm not setting up a strawman
and toppling it, okay? I've never been a Christian for one second of my life, but I'm speaking to
a lot of people who were Christians or are Christians, so you know that Christians are taught
that the New Testament is not, these are not made up of books, of people who just wrote,
like some historian wrote. Christians are taught since their children that the New
Testament's the Word of God and divinely inspired in heaven breathed. These are holy books, and that
Matthew, Christians, every Christianist thought this, wrote the book of Matthew, but the Holy
Spirit told Matthew, conveyed to Matthew what to write. That means, I just want to be very clear here.
If you, you know, my audience, wherever I lecture, I have a large number of Christians in my audience.
I can't make anything if I wanted to, because everyone would call me out.
Christians are taught that these are holy books. This is not the New York Times,
this is not the Wall Street Journal, the New Testament was inspired by God, and therefore
listen carefully, because no one talks about this like an elephant in the room. This is what you
have to believe. God is conveying through the Holy Spirit to Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John.
We'll just forget about who wrote them. We'll just say those people, right?
And God forgot Hebrew, and he, wait, hold on a moment. I forgot Hebrew. I haven't written a
book in 500 years. I forgot. I'm not as young as I used to be. Let me go to a translation,
a Greek, oh, okay, there we are. That means you have to believe that the Holy Spirit forgot Hebrew.
Why would, I mean, if today, like you see a rabbi, we don't use translations,
you think the chief rabbi of Israel is going, hold on, before we read this, let's get a,
there are no translations. I live in Israel, by the way. I mean, it's true if someone today converts
to Judaism, who's from the English-speaking world, that person will need a translation,
because until you're conversant, it takes time. There are many people who are not Jewish, but
embrace the Jewish faith as nochites, who are learning Hebrew as adults, because they've embraced
Judaism as an adult, granted. So those people, there are translations that are put out by Jewish
publishers, certainly. But no religion, you're born that way, is using that. We don't need that.
That would be ridiculous. Like what, would you read a Portuguese translation of the
New York Times? No, you're an English speaker. So the whole, this is all in, this is a mind,
this is like mind-bending. Why would the Holy Spirit need to appeal to a Septuagint?
This is an utter insanity. Like a Holy Spirit that's like God.
Well, I mean, to be, to be fair and to be honest, it's obvious as a critical thinker,
I try to, I try to put myself as a critical thinker. When I'm looking at the New Testament,
it's obvious there's something completely radically different in not only what they're trying to do,
but what they did in the theology, in the philosophy. Everything about the New Testament,
to me, says, this is yellow or this is an orange, that's an apple. The Hebrew is apple,
and they're doing a whole new thing. And I know some people, we're going to do follow-up shows.
I really want to pick your brain on this because you're going to love this stuff. I'm going to
have to throw it to you. It's conspiratorial, but there's some ideas floating around,
and I don't want to get rabbit-trail too much, but I almost feel like telling you to get your
thoughts on this, but there are a group of people, and I must mention them, because you're never
going to hear of them ever in the world that you live in, with the audience that you're around.
There's a group called Israel Only, okay? They're not like a religious group. Some,
most of them are non-religious, but they believe that the New Testament audience and the entirety
is a continuity, okay? Of course, they think that there's a lot of myth in the New Testament too.
However, they believe the Gentiles in the New Testament, through and through, the Goyim, are,
I don't know if I butchered that or not, but they are only the diaspora. Only the scattered
Israelites are the Gentiles in the whole New Testament, so I said to them, I said to them,
they said, when you go to the prophets and you look at northern and southern Israel, right,
this is how they, you know, they phrase it, when they get scattered into the nations,
all right, they are supposed to be this diaspora that comes back and is drawn back in.
They believe that this diaspora in the New Testament era is this scattered Israelites,
which you see like the book of James and you see in like 1 Peter, this is to the scattered
Israelites spread abroad. Well, here's what's interesting, and I thought it was interesting,
but I wanted your opinion, and most scholars reject that. Most scholars say this is actually
authentic non-Israelites. These are pagans like to the core probably, who were God fearing probably,
who probably saw something that they liked about the monotheism of the Hebrew Bible.
Maybe they were drawn to Judaism and here Paul's grabbing these guys and bringing them in. But these
people, the IO guys say, no, Cornelius in Acts chapter 10 was probably an Israelite. He was
probably like a northern tribe Gentile Israelite and not, he was biologically somehow or somehow
connected to Israel. Everyone in the New Testament, according to these guys say,
there's a connection to Israel and these are scattered lost Israelites and the whole theme
they have leads up to that point of, hey, it's only, only Israel's salvation in the New Testament.
I thought the New Testament redefined what Israel was. I was thinking there was a redefinition
and they had done something to completely change the meaning because that's what the early church
did. They said, hey, Israel's no longer these Jewish guys. They take, they took it away from the
nation and look, now the church is technically the new Israel or Jesus is the new Israel.
Do you have a thought on Jen? Yeah, yeah. So this is, this is very transparent. It's all over the
Christian Bible. So this is not a matter of an opinion. This is explicitly in the Christian Bible
where there's a distinction made between Jews and Gentiles. In fact, it's shocking that people
would say this because you have Romans chapter. Let's take Romans 116. I am not ashamed of the
gospel. It's a power to salvation to everyone who believes to the Jew first and then to the Greek.
Well, what are they talking about? You have a Matthew chapter 10 where it says, we are told you
says, go not to the way the Gentiles. These are non-Jews and the way the Samaritans, Samaritans
were non-Jews. What to deal with Samaritans beyond the scope of this whole thing. I don't want to
get complicated. Only go to the law sheep at the house of Israel. Now, this is very, we know
that this is because that's what we are told in Matthew was the original assignment while Jesus
was alive. But the theology conveying New Testament is that once Jesus died, on the other side of
the cross, the veil of partition was rent asunder using the Jacobian English. And now you have
Matthew 28, 19, the Great Commission. Now, it's not only go to the Jews, but go into all nations
and baptize them in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. What Matthew is conveying
is prior to Calvary, it's the Jews. And in fact, so, look, I don't want to start up with these people.
I have enough enemies. But you have, in fact, case in the Gospels where a non-Jewish woman,
there's a disagreement of what her nationalities is. Is this she a Kenanite woman? Doesn't make a
difference. She comes to Jesus and says, my daughter is vexed with the devil. Okay? Jesus
doesn't want anything to do with her. Okay? Why? She's not Jewish. She then goes to the disciples
and says, you know, could you? And they're so annoyed by who is this cleaning lady coming here.
She's little part of this whole deal. So they run back to Jesus and says, get her away. And Jesus
is really unhappy with all things. Really, it's an unusual story. And Jesus says to her,
it is not right to take the children's bread and give it to dogs. She then responds,
but even dogs eat from the crumbs that fall from the master's table. This is Matthew 15, Mark 7,
and wherever it doesn't make it the same story. Even dogs, her comeback is that it's sure I'm not
Jewish. That means I don't get the bread because I'm not a Jew. I'm a low Gentile. This is New
Testament stuff. You couldn't make this up. I mean, if anything like this was in Tanakh,
the Jews, they'd hate us even more. This is like a nastiest story. So in Mark, as an example,
she said to him, it's Mark 7, verse 27, 28. She says, yes, but even dogs eat from the crumbs that
fall under the table because she's called a dog. She's called a dog. If you've got a dog at home,
you know what your dog does when you're eating dinner? You're sitting, you put dog food in his
little bowl, right? But your dog is not an idiot. You're eating steak and chicken and all kinds of
other good things. Your dog is going, you're not feeding me that garbage that came out of a bag,
and he's sitting there under the dog. And if you drop a piece of hamburger on the floor,
your dog is going to go for it. That's the story. So Gentiles are dogs. Okay. And then Jesus responds
and says, okay, because you recognize because of this statement, I'll go and I'm going to heal
your daughter who's vexed with the devil. That's the story. Please. I always tell this to my readers.
Please look it up for yourself. Go to Matthew chapter 15 verse 27, or it's actually Mark 7
verse 20. Either way, it's the same deal, same story. Gentiles are dogs. So that argument is,
it's just not true. The book of Galatians is written to non-Jews in what is today Asia Minor.
The whole issue that comes up in that, I mean, I can talk about for hours,
the whole issue of Acts 15 is an issue of Gentiles, former pagans, who are converting
to one to join the Christian religion. The question is, do they require circumcision or not?
When Paul speaks of two Jews, which he rarely does, but he does in, for instance,
Romans chapter 70, speaking to his own brethren. That's how the chapter begins. So that's this
thing. That's just, you know, I don't want like to get old hate camp. No, no, no. It's a very
It's a complete, very minor. There's not a lot of people out there that are like that. And they're
not, I'm not trying to downtrodden because they're very smart people. They're just trying to,
what they're trying to do is connect what the New Testament to the Old Testament is. And they're,
they're, in my opinion, they redefine terms and they try too much. They're trying to force
sometimes square blocks in a circle, round hole, whatever. That's my opinion, but
