Welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
Your host, Derek Lambert.
This is a three-part series.
It was going to be two, but I'm making it into a three, with Rabbi Tovia Singer.
The contents that are going to be discussed are controversial.
If you're a believer of the New Testament, you probably aren't going to enjoy some of the
content that's discussed on this video and probably a lot of other ones that we produce here.
Do I have a chip on my shoulder?
I don't know.
I know I love my family and my friends.
Every one of them is Christian.
I know I don't disrespect their faith and I don't care that they believe.
I just want my own space to be a critic of myself and be a skeptic of what I thought
used to be the literal case, the truth.
And here at MythVision, we're going to be open-minded to all sorts of ideas.
We've dwelled on mythicism quite a lot, but what about historicism?
There could have been a historical Jesus.
Why are ideas like full-preterism rejected by scholarship?
Why are they accepted by Christians that believe in full-preterism?
That's a very minor topic in the grand scheme of Christianity.
Like, who are full-preterist, right?
These things are going to be explored and I plan on getting other ideas.
I really appreciate you guys who've stuck around and more will come.
Your host, Derek Lambert.
Oh, and I almost forgot one thing.
We are MythVision.
Love you guys.
Here we go.
So here's again, we can't say with certainty, but we're always Derek looking for the anomaly.
What is odd, what doesn't fit?
That's how we find God's breast cancer, what tissue stands out, doesn't fit.
So we find natural gas time.
We're looking at anomalies.
And here's our anomaly.
Our anomaly is a figure who is the most front and center figure in the resurrection account.
She's everywhere, always in everybody's story.
And the stories don't match, but she's always right in the middle.
And her name is Mary Magdalene.
And now Magdalene is not her last name.
She's married from Magdalene and there are quite a few Mary's, she's that one.
She appears 12 times in the Christian Bible.
She is the center figure in every resurrection account.
She's there.
Well, is Salome there?
It depends, but she's always there.
Right.
Now, what is even more strange about this is she's almost never
in any of the part of the entire Christian Bible.
You go through the whole Christian Bible and I use the word almost with one exception.
In Luke 8, chapter 2, excuse me, Luke chapter 2, chapter 8, verse 2 and 3,
we encounter Mary Magdalene like that.
And what is she?
She has a devil in her, which may mean she was mentally ill.
I don't know, but Jesus healed her from seven devils.
That's all we're told.
Okay.
So she's one of these women that are hanging out with Jesus or his followers and his supporters
and sponsors.
Paul also had a cadre of women that followed him and helped him through.
So that would not be unusual.
But the key is she's nowhere in the New Testament except for that one verse.
Except then when we go to the resurrection, she's everywhere.
That is very odd.
That means why would you introduce someone out of nowhere and make her the most central figure
in the resurrection accounts?
John's account, chapter 20, she's the only one there and sees two angels inside the tomb.
One at the head, one at the feet, where it was.
And she's asking them, what do they do with the Lord?
Do you know where they put it?
They ask her, why are you crying, woman?
She then turns around and sees the gardener.
It's a very different story than Matthew 28.
The point is she is the most important figure.
And if that were alone, that would be fine.
If she was someone, but she's nowhere else except one exception.
She's nowhere else.
Therefore, I suspect, I suspect very highly that after Jesus's death, she's one of these
women, like I was singing in Indonesia all over the Philippines, India.
She is the person who has some sort of vision.
That means Jesus came to me.
This happens all over the place.
And she was then, it's around her that this is all set.
Moreover, we have something else that is unusual in the Christian Bible that it's just unlikely
someone would have invented.
And that is the doubting passages.
Why would texts like in Matthew 28, when the disciples go to the Galilee to meet Jesus
and they worshiped him, but some doubted it?
Why had some doubted it?
That means there are people who are doubting there was a resurrection.
Why?
Why in 1 Corinthians 15, Paul is writing to people who are questioning whether there was
a resurrection.
Why?
If he's walking around, dead people are coming out of the graves.
Matthew 27, he met 500 people.
Why would you throw into the text that there are a lot of people who doubt this and these
are people who shouldn't doubt it?
Who doubt it?
The reason is that people are saying, this is a crazy lady that is saying this stuff.
I'm not convinced that I buy into it, just as in Indonesia a lot of these women who claim
to have met Peter the Great, who came under a considerable amount of ridicule for it.
So that's what fits together.
That's, to me, as I said, this is an Occam's razor deal.
Right.
I mean, what requires the fewest hypotheses to put together what was likely to happen?
What is embarrassing?
What doesn't fit in one solution that answers and addresses every one of these questions?
To me, this makes the most sense.
If what I said is correct, then in a sense, Mary Magland, it could be said, invented Christianity.
Very interesting, Rabbi.
I really appreciate you taking the time to take me through that the way that you did,
because I can see that as being very plausible myself.
Question I have, and I've seen you debate before, I think, but I haven't seen too many of them.
And I know you've debated Christians before a lot.
Now, I think you've done a few recorded, but one of my questions was, and it's always the William
Lane Craig types that are always debating the resurrection of the dead, etc., that are trying
to argue for Jesus.
It's an interesting thing how he goes from the Kalam cosmological to, oh, Jesus.
But nonetheless, regardless, we're not going to go there.
I wanted to ask you what you, if this position is plausible and it is true,
and let's speculate and just say, okay, this is the case.
You know, this makes the most sense.
I'm going to roll with this.
What do you suspect?
And this is just your opinion.
I just want your opinion on it.
What do you think happened to his body?
Do you think the Romans took him away?
Do you think they hit him because he was this larger than life figure?
There was no attitude at all.
The first and earliest, most primitive view is that a resurrection of the dead did not mean the
body resurrected.
I know that sounds crazy, but let's stop.
We'll put this all together.
The earliest texts we have say that the physical body didn't resurrect from the dead.
Mark, I'm going to take, right.
I'm going to take you really deep on this.
You're about to say Mark chapter 16, presumably.
Like they add it on, right?
They add it on.
They add the last 12 verses, if you're sure.
So Mark does not have a resurrection account.
All Mark has is the women, again, women, come to the tomb, meet a guy who will presume as an angel.
He's dressed really well.
The point is, this is an angel, and then they're afraid they see nothing to anyone.
Book ends.
It's not a mystery how Christian scribes in later centuries would add those 12 verses to comport
with a resurrection account in the other gospels.
So that's not rocket science, but that's not my source.
That's just a little bit, but that's proving from silence.
I don't like it.
Here's what I do like, because if we want to kind of go like what really went.
The answer is 1 Corinthians 15.
Paul is explained.
And then I'm going to get to the theology behind this.
Paul is saying, telling us in 1 Corinthians 15, that the physical body does not resurrect from the dead,
and what is resurrected is a spiritual body.
This is the language of Paul.
So now I need to explain something that's going to be very new to your viewers.
The Greeks had a considerable respect for Judaism and Jews.
Judaism was an officially recognized religion in the Roman Empire.
Always was.
Alexander the Great came to the land of Israel, met Jewish leaders here.
Jews and Judaism were regarded with considerable esteem by the Greeks.
That said, there were some things that the Greeks thought the Jews were nuts for believing.
So they thought we were crazy for having a temple.
It's huge, our Temple Mount, and there isn't one statue, like what?
But what was really very striking to the Greeks was that the Jews believed in the physical resurrection
of the dead, and the Greeks thought that was the most grotesque, ridiculous thing to believe.
In the scene, you need to understand the world.
The place of tension between the Jews and the Greeks won a number of levels.
But one thing the Greeks were very outspoken about is the body was a wretched vessel that
we look forward to being rid of because it's mortal.
That's platonic, right?
Like this platonic thing.
Right.
Thank you.
That's the platonic thinking.
Socrates happily drank a glass of hemlock, killed himself, happily to be rid of his wretched body.
No one in the Greco-Roman and the platonic world hoped to ever go back to that disgusting body.
So in Greek thinking, the physical world is limited, and the goal is to enter into the spiritual realm.
They all believed in the afterlife, just there, if light was utterly spiritual.
This is the battle line.
In Judaism, the physical body is very important, and it becomes sacred by a person who lives his or her life
in a way that elevates the physical to the spiritual, and therefore the resurrection of the dead
is material, it's physical, it's literal, and the body is a very good thing.
When you eat, just make sure it's food you're allowed to eat.
When you are intimate with someone, make sure it's your wife and not somebody else's wife,
but it's all considered very holy.
I love this, by the way, I love this.
So this is very, this is how to understand the brain of God, and that is the physical
body was created by God, and it is sacred.
Now we can desecrate, destroy our bodies, we can live a hedonistic life,
we can say we're not going to do anything to confuse any holiness in our lives,
and then that person does not resurrect from the dead.
Can I mention a few things like, and these are things that I think are interesting,
that I talk about on my show a lot, such as kosher diet, eating whatever Paul says,
hey, I do what you want, dealing with Torah, I mean like he's like the law's done away with,
are you kidding me, that is anti, that's not just, that's not just,
hey, we're going to have a little bit of a difference.
Yeah, he's absolutely flipping everything on its head down to the afterlife,
down to the afterlife.
So I love where you're going, my audience has been watching for a long time,
and they've been listening to me say this about Christianity,
and there are groups that still try to do this, and I think Christianity mistakenly
connected the resurrection somehow to this Jewish idea of physical, and they've made it.
I'm going to explain this, I need to walk through, so please shut up, I'm kidding.
Notice what I'm also doing here with you on the show,
I'm not going and coming up with some UFO stuff, I don't believe in UFOs,
if you don't want to watch me anymore, just go, I know, if I see evidence for it,
I'll change my mind in a second, but everything I'm telling you is,
I'm building this, this is really Sister of the Republic, Volume 6.
I'm with you.
He goes into this, all this, that means what I'm telling you,
I'm impressed that you understood this about platonic thinking.
So platonic thinking is that this is a dualism, and this is by the way,
when Gnosticism is going to grow from, Gnosticism is this dualistic world,
but it's like on acid, where there's the bad gods who created this world,
and then the good gods, and so it's just hyped up.
But Gnosticism didn't fall out of nowhere, it was born out of this thing.
So this thinking is that the physical world is a lower realm,
and then the spiritual is the higher realm, and that's the goal.
There's not this world, what E, poor, doesn't matter, but the spiritual world is what matters.
Now, Paul is reflecting exactly that.
To resurrect from the dead in the Greek world, remember, Paul is from Tarsus.
Tarsus is one of two centers, let's say one of three major centers in the ancient world of
Greek reflection and philosophy. That was like being in Cambridge, I mean that's the center.
Paul is conveying this, Paul is saying, if you take a seed, these are not words,
these are his words, if you take a seed, he's criticizing people who don't get the resurrection
rate. If you take a seed and put it in the ground, the seed dies, it's gone, and what comes out,
the plant, is something totally different. Now, he happens to be wrong on seeds don't die,
but let's just say they do, and it's a metaphor. I'm willing to be charitable with him, whatever.
But Paul's whole point is that the resurrected body is a spiritual body, those are his words,
it's not the physical body that resurrected. Now, 1 Corinthians is definitely from the hands
of Paul's written, let's say 55. That's early, early, early, early stuff, much older than the
Gospels. And therefore, what happens is the following, this is where you just need to stay
really close home. The Jewish view of resurrection dead, you can see it could be very attractive,
why? Because dying is, for most people, it's a frightening idea. Because dying is a nightmare.
I mean, dying is even worse because not only do you get tapped on the shoulder and told you have
to leave the party, but the party goes on without you, which makes it even worse. So the idea that
you get to come back could be very attractive. The resurrection of the dead, the physical
resurrection of the dead, is very attractive. That's why you alluded to this earlier, that Judaism
was a very popular religion in the first century. It was with tremendous amount of conversion to
Judaism. So the Greeks were not winning this fight because it was very attractive to people
and made sense. It's sort of what made sense that we're not just highly intelligent dogs,
but we are totally unique. And this is, I mean, we stand upright. We're vertical. Everything else
is horizontal. We're just totally unique in so many ways, our ability of speech and so on. This
is holy. We sense that. We know there's something wrong with adultery. We intuit, we intuit
it. We know there's some, why do we intuit it? Because we're creating the image of God.
If you've got a pet at home, a dog, sweet, you love him, your cat, your dog's not creating the
image of God. We are no animal ever believed in God. Only humans do because we are creating the
image of God. We intuit God. The only thing is our things we don't understand, not because we
have a different value system than God, but rather like the difference between a sergeant
and a general. The sergeant and the general in the U.S. Army have the same goals and the same
values. The general just sees a much bigger picture than the sergeant does. We are creating the
image of God. Therefore, the commandments, it resonates to us. Animals could be killing each
other, committing incest, murdering babies so that the mother goes into heat again and we're
going, well, that's fine. But for us, we know we, that's just evil. That means there's something
inside of us that's different. It's, you know, atheists often go, oh, I don't need God to tell
me thou shalt not steal. I can figure it out myself. I'm going, no, you can't because animals are
always stealing stuff from other people, from other dogs. That's why they intuitively hide their
bone. And I shouldn't put that in there. And they don't, if you told them, but it's wrong to steal
if a dog could speak, he would say, what are you talking about? They don't even know what you're
talking about. So the key is this, we are creating the image of God and therefore the commandments
resonate. It just makes sense not to sleep with my sister. It's not that I'm not attracted to her.
It's just there's something wrong about that. There's something wrong about a man sleeping
with his daughter. They're just wrong. There's something intrinsically wrong. And then the only
thing is there are events that occur in life that we observe that we can't explain. And that also
we would expect because God's mind is infinite. Ours is limited and God sees larger picture. And
sometimes we get to figure out what God was doing. So as we don't, we have just trust that
he has the bigger picture. And if he created this whole thing, he sure does. So let's get back to
the resurrection. Early Christians were not looking for an empty tomb. I'm going to say
something in a few moments. It's going to blow your mind away. Resurrection to dead
in the Greek world did not mean physical resurrection of dead and requiring an empty tomb.
The body could be there. The resurrection is a soul and a spiritual body. These are the words
of Paul. I'm not inventing this. There's no conspiracy. Read 1 Corinthians 15 or so.
That's the crucifixion chapter. This is the case that Paul makes.
Now, you can imagine as Christianity is developing, of course, there are people
are very aware of what the Jews believe. And that's the physical resurrection of dead.
Mark, as you pointed out, lacks any resurrection account at all. The last 12 chapters,
12 passages, meaning Mark 69 through 1620, is in it later in time. We know that. We know that.
All our managers, we know that. That's just known. And everyone can seize that point.
And then what starts, what's clearly happening in the first century is that Christians are not
satisfied with Paul's version, with this platonic understanding. They want the physical resurrection
because the Jews are promising physical resurrection. That's always a part of Judaism,
Daniel 12 to Isaiah 2619. The grave is only a temporary dwelling place, Isaiah tells us.
The body is reek. That's why bones don't disappear. They can't burn because they're made out of
calcium. Calcium can't burn in the cremation. Never get cremated. Whoever you are watching
the show is terrible thing. They grind the bones down. The bones are preserved for the resurrection.
And it's very clear that Christianity is then going to turn back. Even though it's moved away
from Judaism with Paul, the resurrection of the physical body that you come back physically to
this earth becomes very popular. And how do I know this? Because we see Matthew, Luke, and John
introducing it further and further, insisting that Jesus' resurrection was a physical resurrection.
And the further you move out in trajectory, the stories become more and more intriguing.
Luke has an example where you have the room where everyone is gathered together,
and Jesus just appears in the room in Jerusalem. Remember, Luke's story doesn't have the disciples
go to the galleries that everybody else does. And then Jesus is eating burnt fish with them.
And not only that, in case you're wondering, in case I'm making this up or reading it,
Jesus then, we are told, turns to everybody watching his resurrected body eating and drinking
and asking, how then does a spirit eat and drink? That can't be. So Luke is going, I don't know.
Now, Luke is insane. Don't listen to Paul. But Luke has conjured up this story. What difference did
he eat French fries? Did he blow his nose? That story is there. And he's telling you why it's there.
They're pushing back. No, Jesus' resurrection is physical. Whatever you thought back earlier.
And then we get to John and Downing Thomas. Okay, that's what I was going to ask. It's kind of a
subtle way. You can use the narrative in a subtle way to really see that it's actually dealing with
previous doctrine and building upon to correct it, so to speak. Exactly. In Thomas, he's like,
touch it. You know, touch my hands and my feet and my side. So John chapter 20,
all you're looking up John chapter 20 verse 24, 25, 26, and he physically touches the holes in his
hand. And then Jesus bless them, bless of those who believe without touching. So John is like
shoving this further, further. This is physical. So what happens is that Christianity, of course,
is emerging with Paul in the Platonic sense. Resurrection is you don't need an empty tune
for that. But what happens then is you have people that's unsatisfying. I mean, I'm just
going to resurrect spiritually, but I will never eat again. I will never kiss my kids again. I will
never kiss my wife again. Like this is just disappear forever. You can understand why Judaism
is for many reasons, including the Senate is electing horses. I mean, you can say you can't be
that religious with these kinds with these kinds. So Judaism is enormously popular. And this then
moves back into narrative. If we leave the cannon, we can go further. We can go to the
Gospel of Peter, which didn't make it in almost did, where we have our only scene of Jesus actually
walking out of the tomb with the cross and angels accompanying him. And it's a walking,
talking cross. So the more you further you go, the more they want to get its physical. Now I want
to show you something that's going to just smoke your brain out the window. You know me already.
You know me pretty well. So please do. So now, now it's mind blowing time. And I'm not going to
disappoint you. Just fast. I actually believe every word you're saying. So yes, this is good.
So it's good. Good. Yeah, it's good because I'm going to do this by the fact that you find what
I'm saying convincing. I'm going to always show you exactly what says exactly what I'm saying.
And you don't have to put anything in the text. Okay. Why would someone go back to a tomb to find
it empty? I mean, hopefully you never did. But I am logically you probably were at a funeral,
and probably hopefully not. But you possibly heard of or saw a burial in your life. Yeah.
Do you know of anybody in the universe that went back to the grave three days later?
The answer is no. Nobody does. Not to search to see if it's yeah. Nobody just nobody goes back.
Now you go back. If you want to put flowers there, you go back to eventually a tombstone is made
whatever tradition it is. And there's an unveiling of the tombstone. That's whatever. Sure. Every
clump veterans day people go whatever, but people don't go back to why were they going back to
tune? As it turns out, you don't need Rabbi Toviasinger to tell you this is explicitly told us in the
Gospels, particularly in Mark. I want to turn you to Mark chapter 15. I want to turn to Mark
chapter 15, last verse, verse 47 and chapter 16, verse one, were told the same thing in Luke
chapter 24. The reason is that Jesus was buried in such a rush that there was no time to anoint
his body and put spices on his body. So they went after the Sabbath was over. They went back to the
tomb to add spices and anoint his body. Okay. So this is not like a guess. There's not like I have
to speculate. This is explicitly stated there. Just open it up for yourself. And it's right there.
It tells you they put let's put this whole thing on pause. Okay. What? You got to put spices with
a body? Like where does that come from? This is going to again, if you're standing with a frying pan,
you want to sit down or we can go to the last verse of Luke 23 and the first verse of Luke 24,
verse one, exactly the same thing. Okay. The women go back to the tomb. We are told why,
because they want to put spices and anoint the body. Right. A dead body. Now, the question is
what is going on here? Why would you, why do you need, are we making chicken soup here? Like why
are we putting spice? Do we need rosemary? And well, I know that was being silly, but why? All
right. So as it turns out, there's no mention in the Torah that there's a commitment to put spices
with the body. Why would, but we know from Jewish literature that this was done, that spices will
put with the body. Why? It's all over the place. It's very simple. Let's go back to a world of no
refrigeration. Let's go back to a world where it's in a part of Israel. It's 95 degrees. It's a little
bit of science here, not much. The moment anything dies, any person dies, the process of decay and
decomposition begin immediately, immediately. And this is not cooked
flesh, which could sit around a while longer. If you ever left a piece of raw chicken out,
I don't mean to just say, you know what happened? Yeah, you forgot you left the chicken. Next day,
it's a nightmare. Okay. Decomp... Now, what did they do? Could you imagine, Derek, something
of a greater disgrace to a body that it takes time? A person dies, there's no refrigeration,
nothing. It's hot. The body is decaying. It's going to give off a very foul odor.
What could be a greater disgrace to someone who you wish to honor than that person's body
being carried to the place of the eulogy, being taken to the place of burial, whoever time that
takes, that the body begins to have a foul odor? By the way, this idea of bodies having foul odor
is found with the lies of its story. This was the big week problem. Could you imagine something
that's a greater, it's called a bezoian hummus, which is forbidden. You can't allow anything to
in any way humiliate the body of a dead person. And there's nothing more grotesque than a person
who you loved, who's died, and the person's body is smelling as the eulogy is going on. So,
in the ancient world, they had a way to solve this whole problem. What do they do? They had
different recipes of spices that were very strong that they would just put next to the body,
so that they would have a kind of a liquid and they would mix spices in. They just had a very
strong odor to it, a pleasant odor, that would completely neutralize the foul odor coming from
a decaying body. You got that? And sometimes it was a really horrible situation. This is all over
Jewish literature. They even had methods that it was a really bad situation. It took longer than
usual. They had certain spices that they would burn the spices and the smoke that would come
burning these spices. They were very strong and no one would smell the body. The whole point of
putting spices with the body is to match the odor of decay, so as to honor the dead, until you put
the body in the ground. Once the body is in the ground, then nobody smells anything. It's finished,
or if it's in a tomb, or if it's in a mausoleum, whatever it is, once it's buried,
might smell it. That's not relevant anymore. That means, just listen to me, because this is just
I don't want it to go over my head. No one goes back to a tomb that's a person who's buried or
interred and opens it to put spices inside. The guy's already buried. The guy's already
interred. The story doesn't make sense. The story is complete nonsense. That means this is a plot
device that was invented to explain why anyone would go back to the tomb. It never happened.
No one goes back to tomes. This is a decide. As it turns out, we do wash the body of the dead.
Men wash the body of a man who dies and women women. It's also considered this way. You would
never have women washing anointing a body with spices. I mean, you're having women anoint and
wash the naked body of a man of Jesus. That just never happened. That just will never happen in
the Jewish world. Never. Women care for the dead of a woman who's passed away. Men, men. But that
is the smaller case. That's minor. The massive thing is there was no empty tomb. This device
was invented. Now, what happens later is John corrects this. If you go to the story in John,
so he corrects us with a figure we only found in the book of John. That's Nicodemus. When Nicodemus
adds the spices before the Sabbath in the book of John, which of course contradicts Mark and Luke
completely. I'm not introducing this to say, ah, we got a big contradiction. John says spices were
added before the burial, which would have been that's a correction. That's an improvement.
We're now putting spices in with the body before it is buried, right? Which would make sense.
They got it completely. No one. Why would you dig up a grave? Of course he wouldn't do that.
The whole point is that during the eulogy, during the carrier of the burial, there's no
that's driving down into state 80 at 90 miles an hour. This is a slow process to all being done,
but the grave has to be done. They don't have a backhoe for this. The point is that spices are
there only until the body is interred. Then it's complete nonsense to believe that anyone went
to add spices after the guy's dead. That story is clear. There's no end. The point is that the empty
tomb story is nonsense. Now you ask the question, you view a manuscript. How come I never heard of
this? This makes complete sense. How come I never heard of it? The reason is, my friends,
I'm going to give it a straight. I'm talking to you. I die, man to man. Unless you live in the
Jewish world and you're a part of the religious Jewish Orthodox world, that's what this is.
This is original Judaism. You're just not acquainted with this. The whole notion of
putting spices with the body is, I don't know, maybe people did put spices in. We forgot to
before the burial. Let's make sure we get the spices in or the guy can't go to heaven or something.
The reason why people, even scholars, PhDs, they never ever figure this out is they're utterly
unfamiliar with Jewish life. The only Jew they know is the guy who does their taxes
and the guy who defends or the guy moguls in Hollywood. They know that these guys are Jewish
somehow, but that's it. Nobody knows Jewish life intimately except for religious Jews,
not Jews who are irreligious, secular Jews who'd never go to temple. I'm not talking about those.
If you are such a Jew, please don't be offended. I'm not trying to be offensive,
but I want to make this point. That was actually my, if you don't mind me
plugging, this is why I wanted you to join me on the program. I'm not hiding anything. I wanted
you because I knew that you would know the internal world of the Jew and every aspect that was important
because if anyone would show and be able to do so well showing and you were well articulated,
you knew your stuff, the differences between the Jewish Bible and Christianity, I knew you'd be
the guy because you were coming at it from a Jewish world. I mean, you can smell the stench.
That doesn't smell like the Jewish Bible. Okay, that does not smell like that.
I have been a broadcast for many years, more years than you've been alive. I've never heard a person
that got this point as you did, not about me, but I'm so great, but you got it. That's exactly
correct. You have to be in the Jewish world. There is a concept in the study of history called
verisimilitude. It's two Latin words combined. It means that you've got to understand the world,
the culture of whatever you're studying. If you're studying the Christian world,
then you're studying the Jewish world. If you want it instead of anything happening,
you've got to understand what the Jewish world is like. One of the things about Judaism is we're
not really a changing religion. I can go to the, I hope you come to Israel one day, Derek. I'll take
you to the place where the Dead Sea Scrolls are on view for everyone to see. It's in the Israel
Museum and the Rockefeller Museum. I could look at a text that's 2,200 years old and just read
it to you straight away the way you'd read a newspaper. Conversely, Derek, you're a native
English speaker here in America. If I read Chaucer to you, if I read English middle, if I
reading in someone speaking English in the 13th century, meaning the 1200s, you wouldn't understand
the word they're saying. And how do I know this and we don't have recording? There are guys who
just studied this. I lectured a lot of universities and there are professors of this who study and
teach ancient English. What did it sound like? The funniest thing is I had professors who,
when you talk about this, who teach this stuff at America's best universities. In fact,
you can go on YouTube, try it for yourself and go, what does middle or old English sound like?
And they've got, this is all guys doing. I don't, I kill my, it's like, what could be more boring.
But what did it sound like to speak English in the 1200s? Like, what did it sound like?
Did it just mean like you sound like you're from Alabama? No. It sounded like someone speaking,
I don't know, some German, Dutch, you could only imagine it. You would not be able to make any
zero. So I can listen to or read Hebrew. And that's 2000 years old. And I know exactly what
they're saying. I know exactly what they're experiencing. I know it because it's a part
of a world that's a sacred world. It's a world that we are committed to not changing.
That's what Judaism is. We don't change because of fashion. And the people who study this, it was
so-called New Testament scholars, and they are, I don't mean no disrespect, but they're just not
intimately personally familiar with the Jewish world. And as such, they don't get it.
I actually, I have to agree with you. They can't agree amongst themselves what certain things mean.
They also, and don't get me wrong, I know that there are also probably rabbis who,
and they debate 24 seven over text and what they mean and maybe ideas, but I'm trying to come at
it and say, okay, why is it every time I read a commentary, they can't even get this New Testament
thing. And this is obviously contrary to what the Jewish Bible says. And so if you don't mind, Rabbi,
I'd like to close us out with one more touch on this. If you have any ideas that come to mind,
something here will close out because I want to do shows with you. We can talk about the Dead Sea
Scrolls and your ideas, your personal thoughts, because I've actually had Dr. Robert Eisenman
as a guest on our show at one point, and he's getting up there in age. So he's forgetting
more than he remembers, and he was talking about the Dead Sea Scrolls. I've had other guys come on,
but just to get your thoughts on it, I know that that's not your particular like field of research.
Yeah, but you know what? This is something I'm fairly familiar with. I'm going to say for now,
the thing that you, the viewer, have to keep in mind. The Dead Sea Scrolls began with a discovery
in 1947 with the Bedouin Muhammad ad-Dim, discovering Cave One. Okay, just the point of
we would subsequently find many other caves with hundreds and hundreds of scrolls or the
fragment of hundreds of scrolls. Some scrolls intact, some not. Great Isaiah Scrolls on display
in the Israel Museum. The most important thing to bear in mind is that because we have texts,
so the scrolls are texts that were written somewhere from, let's just say, 1st, 2nd century BCE.
There's nothing written in the 1st century. There's corrections. Just, just right now,
take another for 1st century BC. That's all the scrolls are from. The key is that they're
virtually, I say virtually identical to the text with the Hebrew text. The word mess around gets
people scared. I'm going to avoid that word. Okay, maybe we could do another show and tell
what is that word and so let's do that because it's the people. This is like, oh, mess around.
So just which is the word Hebrew for right now. Okay, so just take my word for right now that
the Hebrew is a continental language and there are no vowels. The vowels are added
and there's a written system that was developed later, but like imagine a paragraph of English
and you just erased every vowel, deleted them. No vowels. Well, you might figure out what it says.
You'd probably at first be very confused because that's not the way you used to reading an English
paragraph that has no A-E-I-O-U and sometimes why you would go, what am I looking at here?
And then you'd probably eventually make it out just like you get an SMS text message from someone,
right? So people are typically using auto text SMSing. We're just running your fingers rather
than just tapping. And invariably, when you're SMSing someone or sending someone a Facebook
message, you misspell something and you just don't correct it. And so there's one word that just
doesn't fit at all. So you go, okay, you look at it and you could probably go, ah,
I think that's what was misspelled there. Okay, so the point is that the Hebrew text of the Dead Sea
Scrolls, that means the Tanakh, the Hebrew Scriptures and what we have today are virtually
right. Not exactly. There are variances. I discuss those variances and it would be too
stretch for me to, it's way, but the most important takeaway. And if anyone tells you
something else that I'm telling you, they don't know what they're talking about. There are many
things that are very, this is valuable about the Dead Sea Scrolls. It's the most important
biblical archaeological find in the 20th century. That's indisputable. But if I had to put it in
the single most important takeaway, there is no disagreement on this. And that is that the
integrity of the Tanakh of the Hebrew Bible has been preserved. What we have today is,
I say virtually, but it's almost identical. There are variances and I can prove to you
those variances are the result of somebody making a dumb mistake back then, not today,
but that's for another show, Derek. Anyways, that's the key for you.
I agree. I've actually heard that more than once. So you're just re-instituting that idea.
And Rabbi, how many books do you have? I have a number of books written over the years,
but I essentially put it all together in two big volumes. Okay. So number one, I'm going to say
this outreach judyism.org outreach judyism.org. And there you can get my books or you can just
go on Amazon. So Tovia Singer, there's a two volume series called Let's Get Biblical. Not
kidding. Why doesn't Judaism accept the Christian Messiah? Where I go through all this stuff in
much more detail than I could now. There's some books you could just put more in and people
could take their time going through it. So there's a two volume series called Let's Get Biblical.
You can get it on Amazon. You can get it on our website. And that's what I would recommend if
someone wants to really go with this. Absolutely. Outreach judyism.org. Be sure to check out the
description down below, guys. You can actually get over there and check his stuff out. I'm really
glad that you joined me here on the show because I think we have some future endeavors that we
can definitely do. And I do plan to come to Israel one day when we do. You know, I'm going to hit
you up for sure. And I'm excited. Brilliant. Wonderful. Well, thank you so much for this
long show or multiple shows here. And I really appreciate that. We need to plan again. I'll
come up with some ideas, throw them your way. And I really appreciate you joining me here at
MythVision Podcast. Always. Shalom. Thank you.
