Okay, looks like we are live.
Welcome to MythVision Podcast.
I'm your host, Derek Lambert.
Today we're reimagining the boundaries between Christians and Jews, and I have a special guest.
They've never been on MythVision before, so you're going to want to stay tuned.
Hit the like button, check out the description to find out more about our guest, and I hope
that everybody's having a wonderful day.
I want to just give a quick shout out, rest in peace to Dr. Michael Heizer.
He was a big influence on me as a Christian, and hopefully I can get this video downloaded
that I did a recording with him a year and a half, two years ago.
I can get it out for you all to revisit that, and I know that he's no longer suffering.
He was suffering with cancer.
So maybe we'll do something about that later, and let's get the party started.
Son, do you want to know what the truth is?
After this, there's no turning back.
You take the blue pill, and you wake up in your bed and believe whatever you want to.
You take the red pill, and you stay in Wonderland.
And I show you just how deep the rabbit hole goes.
Remember, all I'm offering is the truth.
Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh,
ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh
Welcome to MythFission.
with me, and that is Dr. Rabbi Juan Beherano de Tirres.
Hey, I tried. I told you before. I was like, let me try to get this name down. Welcome.
How are you?
I'm doing well. Thank you. And don't worry about the names. Like I mentioned before,
even my own kids, you know, they're very textinized. They have their own accents. And I'm like,
okay, yeah, whatever. It's fine. It's fine. It's just get it out there.
You have a background, of course, if you don't mind, so that I always like to roll out the
red carpet. When I first started the show, I'd like try to read these long scripted
introductions of like, oh, he went from so and so or, you know, give these things. I
almost feel it's best to have the person who's lived it and who's experienced it to be able
to kind of tell us what your background is. You have written extensively. And while you
tell us a little bit of your bio or where you come from, your education and what your
goal is, I'm going to be promoting the book, letting others know, go get you a copy. I have
a few of his books here at my house and we're going to be talking about one of them today.
So Rabbi, Juan, if you will, feel free to jump on that, please.
Thank you. Well, let me start off as I mentioned, I'm going to start off by saying that I'm
the husband of a beautiful wife. And we're going to be celebrating our 12th anniversary
next week. And I'm the father of three boys, great, very handsome boys, very proud of them.
I'm an interesting individual in the sense that I have a complicated background. I have
a degree in electrical engineering, and that's what I do for a living. I actually work for
an electronics component manufacturer. But over a course of 15 years, I was able to attend
three different Jewish institutions, the Segal College, today's studies, the Spurlus Institute
for Jewish Learning and Leadership in Chicago. And then I attended a program with Yashivat
Mesilat Yasharim, which was coupled with the American Seminary for Contemporary Judaism.
And I received rabbinic ordination, smicha. So I have a master's, a doctorate, and rabbinic
ordination in Jewish studies, in addition to what I do on a daily basis, which is engineering.
And I'm the rabbi of a small community in the suburbs of Dallas. And one of my goals
is to further enrich Jewish and Christian relations. I think that in America, especially
when we have increasing anti-Semitism, I read this almost every day, I think it's important
for Jews and Christians to sort of understand where each one is coming from. And I think
that as somebody who's dedicated to history, as a historian, for me, it's very helpful
to understand where each group is coming from, their experiences, and why each one sort of
views the other sometimes a little bit with caution, maybe even some genuine concern. And
so that's really the motivation for me to write about these topics. The other thing
that I mentioned to you previously was, in our synagogue, it's small, but we have people
who visit. And invariably, many people that are coming outside of the Jewish faith come
in. And it just makes sense to me to be able to communicate with them and to share with
them and to sort of bridge the gap where their learning might be and just to have a conversation
because I think that in our society today, we're so fragmented and everything is so divisive.
I'm not trying to prove a point. I'm trying to have a conversation. And that's really,
I think, the goal of so many of my works that I write about. And I think invariably, most
of them have some kind of connection between different religious communities, whether it's
Islam, whether it's Christianity, whether, of course, Judaism at the center. But that's sort
of what I'm focused in on. And so I talk about these topics on a regular basis.
I'm not going to lie, you have a ton of books, and I love it. I like the title, that one,
Maimonides and Spinoza Come to Dinner, and that's a good one. So you're right, you're
into wanting a conversation. It seems that you're wanting that dialogue to go back and
forth and to kind of imagine how those conversations might happen. In the book, I think we're
zeroing in on today just to get your thoughts will be reimagining boundaries, Jewish and
Christian identity and late antiquity. And I hope that we can dive into what happens early on in
Christianity, historically speaking, that scholars such as yourself and others think occurred where
there's a fraction or what is going on between these groups, both Jewish and then becoming
Christian. And then hopefully we get into those pseudo clementine discussions as well, to learn
from you on what you've discovered. With that being said, also, though, we need to point out you
have a website, modern dash scribe.com. You can go there. And is there like a, I don't know, you
have an email list or something here? Yes, they can download a free book on Sephardic history.
That's another topic that I write extensively on the Jews of Iberia, Spanish and Portuguese Jews.
They can sign up for that to get a free book and they can get on the email list. And I need to
update the website, but it has most of the titles that I've done. And it's a way for them to keep
in contact with me. Awesome. I hope people will go check that out in the description, check out
our Patreon, we're busting our hump, we're bringing you all sorts of stuff. And I've got
so many recordings right now that I'm editing in the works courses that I'm about to have done as
well. And then we also have the course website. So that's in the description as well for scholars.
Who come on and you can go take their courses. Go check it out. Okay. Dr. Juan, let's talk about
this book, Reimagining Boundaries, if you will. Take us through why you wrote this book.
So it's interesting. I love history of any type, medieval history, modern history, World War II,
whatever it is. And I was listening to a lecture that seems completely unrelated to the topic of
Jewish and Christian relations. It was a lecture on the conquest of Mexico. And that's actually
the way that I start the book. I was listening to this professor because it was the 500th anniversary
of the conquest of Mexico in what, 2021, or I think it was, I think they dated it from 2019,
you know, 1519 with the Spanish first arrived. And what I did is I listened to this lecture,
and I thought it was extremely interesting. He basically asked a question, and I'll try to get
through this quickly. He said, was there a Mexico and was there a Spain at, you know,
the beginning of the 16th century, you know, Aztecs and the Spaniards? And he said, well,
if you think about it, there wasn't. There was an Aztec empire, and there were a lot of other
tribes that were subjugated to that particular empire. But this idea of a Mexico as we think
about it today is really a later creation. And when we think about Spain, it really is something
that, you know, came into being later. Because at that time, it was the Kingdom of Aragon,
the Kingdom of Castile, the Kingdom of Portugal, of course, and they had just conquered the Kingdom
of Granada. And the whole point of that is that he's trying to get us to think differently about
the conquest and how individuals, indigenous tribes in Mexico sided with the Spanish because they saw
what they thought was the New World Order, I guess you could think about or say it in that way. And
they said, listen, this is where we need to align for our future. It's better for us. And the reason
that's important is because sometimes there's a lot of emotion and nationalism and assumptions and
biases when people read history. I can tell you that's the case when you study Mexican history,
of course, American history would be the same. So much more is the case when we look at the
relationship between Judaism and Christianity, because people have their sincere theological
beliefs, and anything that sort of interrupts that belief or challenges it is automatically,
I think in many cases, pushed to the side. And so this lecture by this professor got me thinking
about the way that we think about Jews and Christians in the first, second, third, fourth,
fifth centuries of the Common Era, and how much of what we assume today in the 21st century can
we rightly apply? It's not about legitimacy. I'm not questioning people's sincerely held beliefs
or even mine. But what I am doing is saying, if we go back in time, how did these two groups define
each other? And was there really like this hard and fast line? If you go into the street and you
ask a person, you know, who is a Jew or who is a Christian, they'll give you like a one line answer,
right? You know, one, you know, I believe in Jesus, I don't believe in Jesus or, and usually
sometimes what I find is, I'll say, but everything else is basically the same. I always love that
answer because it shows like they have an understanding that as Gabriele Bocicini says,
the same bricks were used by these two different systems, right? The outcome is different, right?
I mean, they have a Jewish house, if you will. And you have Christians who took Jewish bricks,
and they sort of constructed it in a different way. And it became a different system. But I think
if we go back to that early period, what we see is that the lines are very fuzzy. And there's a lot
of openings between them. And in fact, there's a lot of cross currents occurring. And people go
into one community and they come out. And to me, it's fascinating because I see this today
in the 21st century, not just in our small community. I see it in other synagogues. I was,
I was teaching at a synagogue in Arlington, and somebody was coming from a Christian background.
They were in the, in the lecture, and they started asking about Jewish and Christian
relations. And it had nothing to do with what I was talking about. But you had an individual who
was from a Christian background who was interested in learning about Judaism. And so they inject
the topic into the discussion. And as a consequence, it becomes part of the dialogue. And I think
that's why this topic is so compelling to me, because I think it raises our awareness of how
we define things. And we can sort of begin to sort of uncover the layers that we assume
were there from the very beginning. And I think sometimes they, they reveal something very different.
So there's a complexity to this issue. And what I mean is, I'm reading Richard C. Miller's book
Right While I Finished Reading, and he in the entire book tries to point out early Christianity,
the early Christians knew, according to his take on this, Justin Martyr, for example, knew that
the Jesus Topos, him dying and resurrecting and whatnot and having an apotheosis, was no different
than the sons of Zeus and such that he's pointing out over here. So they're finding common ground
with the pagans who, and I'm using the term pagan, that's already a problem as well. But you get my
point, the non monotheist, the Roman world is persecuting these, these Christians. And he's
like, why is it we have nothing no different than you guys, but we're the ones hated, like of all
people were hated. So there's a sense in which they're persecuted. But I say that to say, like,
in his book, he said something interesting, like, either this is Jewish Hellenistic Judaism in some
way, which it broke off from. Or he said, maybe they're Judaizing some form of Hellenism. Like,
there's no way to know, right? Because we're talking about this really gray area of you tend,
most scholars tend to start with some form of Judaism that ends up becoming more and more
Hellenized, especially as it goes toward the Gentiles, as we call them, that tends to be my
personal thought. However, he's like, there's like this weird gray area of like, God fears who are
entering synagogues. And then you also have this other area where there's Jews who seem to be okay
with even use the term Zeus for like interchangeable for their God, because they're so Hellenized that
they're trying to co-opt into the to the Gentile world. So you don't really know, you get what I'm
trying to get at here. It's like, and I think if you look at even what's interesting to me and why
this topic is so relevant as well, is because if you look at contemporary Judaism in the 21st
century, you know, we have, it's not as variegated as contemporary Christianity, but you may have four
or five movements out there. And you can see, at least from my perspective, the influence from the
outside. And I think oftentimes we don't realize, you know, we think about a particular perspective
that we might hold as Jewish. But in reality, it may have been influenced by outside sources.
And I think when we use even when we use the term Hellenism, it's easy to say, oh, that's a
different type of Judaism. But in many ways, you know, we're, we have an Americanized Judaism,
right? It's inevitable. One of my rabbis, Rabbi Byron Sherwin of Blessed Memory, he said that
Americans think about Judaism in Protestant, you know, means, you know, they think about that.
Because if you go to a, you know, someone who's not necessarily well educated in Judaism,
which unfortunately I would say is probably a lot of people in the Jewish community,
they often talk about Judaism in terms of beliefs. But it's the same kind of
motifs that, you know, a Christian would talk about instead of talking about, well, we have
halacha, we have Jewish law, you know, we have, you know, these different elements. And so
it's inevitable for a group of people to be influenced, you know, even the language that
we speak, right? I mean, my primary language is English. You know, we have a mix in our home of
Spanish and Hebrew, but it's, we're already in a sense absorbed into the dominant culture.
And I think in that particular point in time, it's even messier, because you have a polytheistic
environment, and you have individuals, you know, the lines were not drawn. And I think the reason
that Christianity had its, you know, quote unquote, success, if you want to use that term,
is because you did have this blending of people in and out. And the fact that you did
have these, these God fears or whatever you want to call them, you want people say Noah
hides today or et cetera, right? That message, whether it was a Jewish one or it was a non-Jewish
one, it was still permeating into Roman and Greco-Roman society. And so there's inevitably
a change that will take place among Jews and among the people that receive it. And I think the
statement that you made about Justin is very interesting, because I think in his perspective,
you know, he has to sort of change the script in a sense, at least from my vantage point,
because it's in, he's writing in the midst or the aftermath of the Barca, the rebellion,
the third failed Jewish rebellion, you know, in the 132 to 135. So he doesn't want to be associated
with the roots or the bricks that founded his belief. He wants to orient more towards the
greater society that he feels, you know, might, you know, win him more tolerance or maybe more
converts, whatever it is. But I think you see, you see that shift beginning. And I think from my
vantage point, it has serious ramifications, because it really begins to distance the two.
But it's not something that happens immediately. It takes, you know, centuries, you know, to happen.
I, you know, this is my guess here. I think as you discussed, there's various forms. I can't
remember the name of the major scholar, Bootman, I can't remember who argued that there's so many
communities out the gate that are different. I tend to think that that even in the ancient world,
it's like we do today, we generalize. Some people who are critical of Judaism, for example, will
just say, Oh, and Jews believe and it's like, which ones? What do you mean? Like we need to be very
careful about Jews in general, Christians in general, we should be more careful with our
language. Well, I wonder if the criticism and persecution that is coming on people labeled
Christ followers, you tend to have more Jewish roots, like you talk about these bricks of more,
I don't know, people who fit maybe more in line with the Jews of Barca, Barcopa, and like recognizing
I need to divorce myself from that, because I tend to read the New Testament, which I still think
during this period, New Testament's getting kind of formed. Okay, they're already the literature
itself still being, I think acts is being written sometime around this period. So you have these
stories that do look like tropes like Virgil, very Greco-Roman apotheosis tells like Romulus,
where he ascends in Acts one, you have Jesus floating up in a cloud, Romulus floats up in a
cre, like, so there tends to be a way in which it's seeping into that Greek Roman world to try and
adopt. And I always say, I say this all the time, Christianity, if we're looking at it in
evolutionary terms, like we've all mutation right through each environment, Christianity evolves
quite well to whatever situation and go to China, I bet you you're going to look at some Chinese
Christianity and be like, what, they even have stories, I think it's in China, might be Japan,
where Jesus actually visits and stuff like they just it absorbs to the environment quite well,
because it's willing to change in any way, shape, or form to make sure that it's sustainable to the
audience that is receiving it. And that's what's made it so successful, in my opinion, but
No, I think that's very true. And I think you see that in Jewish communities, you know, when you
look at the diaspora, and you see, you know, Jews in North Africa, if you see Jews and, you know,
present day Iraq, and Iran, Jews in the Caucasus regions, and, you know, India, China, there are
elements there that they absorb. And there's nothing illegitimate about that. I mean, it's
perfectly natural for people to, you know, receive that cultural element. But I think
we sort of have a hesitancy to recognize that in the past, because it makes us uncomfortable.
And I think a lot of scholars, you know, they tend to talk about the varieties of Judaism.
And I think that's true. I mean, I think in the Second Temple, you have many different groups,
not just, you know, a party or a sect, you have these different philosophies. But I think we have
to apply it also to Christianity, like you mentioned, and that you really do have these, you
know, there's an agreement, I think Rabbi Jacob Newsner said, you know, they have an agreement
on the basic idea, you know, of Jesus. But then after that, it's, you just have like this, you
know, emergence of these different views. And yes, there's a consolidation that happens, you
know, centuries after. But I think there's always an undercurrent of these groups that feel that
there's something missing. Maybe that's why we see, you know, in the third and fourth centuries,
we see this connection, or we see these statements by the church fathers of people going to synagogues,
because they're interested, right? This is what I'm reading. But, you know, I'm getting like a
different picture, because the, you know, Chrysostom may be saying something that's horrible about
Jews. But then I go to the synagogue, and it's a different experience. And I think there's a
curiosity there. And there's these people that sort of go and live in these two different spaces.
And I think that's very, it's amazing, I think in many ways. I do, too. I do, too.
Before we get to any super chats, Max, I see you in there, we're going to get to it in just a bit
here. I really appreciate the super chat. Feel free to super chat questions if you have any
particular comments, questions you want to make. But Rabbi one, I wanted to talk about
one of the problems that we see with identity going on, we do see this flux, we talked about it
being a very gray thing, right out the gate, various forms, you even have what dosetist and others,
what we like to call Gnostic type sex. And then you also have more Jewish types, which a lot of
people would say, oh, these are like the Ebianites or some other form. I think it was fourth, fifth
century, that we end up getting the Pseudo-Clementine homilies and the Pseudo-Clementine literature.
Can you tell us what this literature is about? What have you gleaned in learning from that whole
thing? I have a good friend who helps support us on MythVision, who prefers to remain anonymous,
said, I really want to know more about this literature. It's quite an interesting dialogue.
Yeah, I think one of the things I've always complained about is we always use the term Pseudo-Clementines.
You know, that preface always bothers me because I think in most people's minds it sort of invalidates
it from the very beginning. And I don't think anybody really believes that Clementine, you know,
the third, traditionally the third Bishop of Rome, I think after Peter in Christian tradition,
wrote these, but when you use the word Pseudo, it's just sort of like people to sort of brush it to
the side. And I think these texts are fascinating because I think the root of these texts goes back
maybe to the late third century, you know, maybe in the 200s, and they represent, they exist in two
forms, the homilies and the recognitions, but they essentially represent either an author or a community
that has a very different vision of, shall we say, Jewish and Christian relations. They do espouse
the belief in Jesus, but it's really like the true prophet. I mean, it almost reminds me of almost
like an Islamic view of Muhammad or even, you know, of Jesus. And I think what's most interesting,
though, is that while they're very dedicated to this view and, you know, that's really their mission,
they present themselves as committed to the Torah, and they basically argue against anybody that is
trying to undermine observance and fidelity to the covenant. They see that as primary. Like, there's no,
for them, they can't fathom a belief in Jesus in any form, apart from, you know, covenantal,
you know, fidelity, if you want to use that term. I think what's also interesting is that in the
homilies, you have this very, I think, for me, it was sort of earth-shattering because it's really
a perspective that respects and honors traditional Judaism, because they basically say,
yes, you know, that Jews have Moses, and if they don't believe in Jesus, as long as they're not
antagonistic, as long as they don't hate him, you know, there is a path there that God has ordained.
And then they basically, you know, say that the same thing to Christians, you know, as long as
they don't hate Moses, you know, there's a path for you there. And I think in that sense, it's
earth-shattering for me, because by the time of the third and fourth centuries, you know,
at least in the circles of theologians among the Church Fathers, there's this very clear line,
right? This is, I guess you could call it, supercessionist or replacement theology. That's,
you know, that's the old covenant. Jews are condemned, and all these things are now part of
the Church's definition of this new body. And the Clementines, like, sort of stick out, like,
in the middle of this, you know, trend. And what's amazing is that they're translated into multiple
languages. So somebody is reading these texts, and they're preserved. And I think that's the
fascinating part about it, that it's relatively late. They're being translated in the fourth and
fifth centuries at a time when Christianity is really beginning to become recognizable in the
way that we think about today, at least, you know, in Gothic and Eastern Orthodox circles.
And the fact that these texts are present and they survive, it shows us that there are other
people existing that, you know, there's, they don't see themselves as part of this greater
trend, right, sort of trying to push, you know, against it to the best of their ability.
So to be like, I'm actually in communication with a few experts who, I guess, specialize on
this particular literature. And the way they look at it is like you said, some people read
into this and think this really does carry some type of historical kernel that goes back.
Others think, well, maybe I can't read too much into that, that really this is about a community
in the fourth, fifth century, that is kind of projecting back into an earlier time, not saying
there isn't a kernel, but they don't think they can argue like how far back this this idea specifically
to this community goes. But what I always found interesting, and I'd love to get your comment on
is while they're trying to do that, there seems to be some type of antagonism to Paul,
like they're really trying to like go at Paul. What's going on with the beef with Paul in this
literature in your view? Well, I think that's one of the reasons this issue with Paul is one of the
reasons that some scholars will argue that it does carry back, you know, further because of
statements that we have in other church fathers regarding the Ebionites, the Ebionim. And one
of the characteristics of the Ebionites is that they rejected Paul because they saw him as antagonistic
to the Torah, you know, whether they're right or wrong historically, whatever the case, they saw
that as characteristic of his mission or his work. And what happens is that they, they reject that
wholeheartedly, and in the Clementine recognitions, they sort of come up with this image of Paul and
the figure of Simon Magus. He's an opposition to Peter, and he portrays this view of, you know,
belief that is antagonistic to what they consider to be consistent, not just with themselves,
obviously, even if they're projecting back, but all the way back to James, you know, in the first
century. And what's fascinating to me is that let's assume that they don't have any kind of
physical connection, if you will, to the first century, then this tells us that in the fourth
century, the fifth century, there are groups like this that are able to produce this type of literature,
and they understand, they take a different approach that I think in many ways is much more
congenial towards traditional Judaism, if you will, if you want to use that term.
It's a bridge in many ways. And they say, you know, if they don't believe in what we believe,
it's sort of part of this divine plan. And as a consequence, you can't exhibit, you know,
hatred towards somebody that is, you know, you know, part of this divine plan that's unfolding.
So I think it's very conciliatory. I think it's amazing because whatever the connections it has
to the past, it's a community that is still in existence at that time. And I think many times
we sort of, like I said, we just brush it aside. But I think what it does is it makes
us reconsider again, what's the official position, and what's the reality on the ground?
And how did the average individual, you know, look at each other, you know, if they have a Jewish
neighbor, they have a pagan neighbor, you know, again, with the term, how did they view themselves?
There's a book, I can't remember the name of the author, but it's called All Shall Be Saved.
It's about views of salvation in early modern Europe, I think in the 14th, 15th, 16th centuries.
And it talks about Muslims, Christians, and Jews, and the fact that they lived with each other,
and how they were there for each other, and how they viewed each other theologically, and how
they were usually much more tolerant than the official positions of the respective clergy of
each group. And I think we have in some sense an example of that in the Clementine recognitions.
That's what I've figured out as well, even in early Islam, like there was marriage taking
place between Muslims, Christians, and Jews, and things are cool. And then there were certain
times where stuff, you know, doesn't work that way. Just another note, is it the pseudo-Clementine
and homilies, the recognitions and homilies where they discuss Nazarenes and Ibnites?
They don't use those terms. I mean, Ibnites is something that we associate with the Clementine
recognitions because of the similarity of thought, you know, the rejection of Paul, adherence to the
Torah, even to the extent that they believe that non-Jews, the Gentiles that are believing in their
message, should apparently observe the laws of Nidah, you know, some type of family purity,
you know, separation when a woman is in her menstrual period. This is like very important
to them, which is very odd. So we don't have a specific name of Ibnonim, but we associate them
associate the Ibnites with this type of thinking. And I think what it does is that, you know, one
of the tragedies is that we only have the church fathers to rely upon. And they're usually just
these small snippets that, you know, talk about these groups, the Ibnites and Nazarenes. And they're
always included in the sections of their works that are dealing with heretics. Right. So they're
already off the bat, we're already dealing with groups that are already marginalized within Christianity.
So we don't know to what extent they really, you know, they apply accurate descriptions. But I
think there is some element there that we can derive and say, you've got some people that are
believing in Jesus in some form, but they're still circumcising, they're still keeping the
laws of Kashrut in some form. They read the Torah and, you know, et cetera. And it's just an
interesting, it may seem archaic in a sense, because they still linger. But who knows, maybe
they were a much more significant threat, if you will, to the established view than we assume,
just because we don't have a lot of information on them. And I think that's where the Clementine
recognitions again, it sort of sticks out there and says, hey, you know, we're not we're still here,
whatever group that is, and it's still, you know, alive in the fourth and fifth centuries.
I was watching or listening to Bart Ehrman's book on how Jesus became God. And he mentions
third fourth century, the debates been going on for centuries about Jesus, who was he, what was his,
what was his identity, you know, what in relationship to the father is he, the whole nine.
And he pointed out at some point, like, I don't know how far deep into the, it was like three
quarters of the way to the book, where he said something like, the church finally stamped out
the earliest Christology we have from Romans one, four, one, three, through four, where Jesus
becomes Son of God at his death. And of course, apotheosis. So like, it was only once he died
and resurrected that he became the Son of God in this earliest almost primitive creed type form.
And I think it's ironic how the Christian church, for example, will take an earlier primitive version
of its own beliefs and practices and then make it heretical. Because by this time they need Jesus
to have been like, eternally Son of God, right? Like he can't like, become Son of God at some
point. He always was that this is the issue that they have, because other literature in the New
Testament says otherwise. So it tells you that they're like, at this point, they have a canon
foreman. Once you have a canon that forces lines. Well, over here, it says he's eternally begotten
Son or something. Oh, snap. Now you got or whatever it might be. So they have this problem and they
end up almost executing a more, I hate to use the word primitive, but it's like an earlier form
that's still floating around, it seems, even in the third, fourth century, by the fact that they
have to say anyone who believes this, you know, they're believing in a horrible, you know, condemning
idea about Christ that they're condemned. So I imagine that it's the wild, wild West as in David
Litwitz says about the second century. He thinks it's the wild, wild West of Christianity and the
people who had political power, as you see, pretty much went out in terms of having history and really
guiding and saying where the church is heading. And I would go so far as to say they're mythologizing
their origins too. They kind of are, we go back all the way to Peter. Peter's part of, you know,
they're creating kind of a easy digestible political religious system that is trying to get
everyone under the same umbrella. It's fascinating to see that even with that kind of power, it seems
that they're trying to push, not all these people are falling in line. Like you have people writing
against these ideas. You have the homilies and recognitions that are trying to
Oh, I'm sorry. What's interesting is that even in the homilies and recognitions, you have differing
perspectives. They have the same basic story, but there's even a, there seems to be like a
different Christology even between these two. So then you have a potential, maybe there's two
groups involved, maybe there's more than that. And what I think is interesting in that you talk
about the wild West is that in the second century, we see the church and essentially, you know, we
have the prekevot, the saints of the fathers, you know, basic text, the Mishnah, that basically
traces the lineage of the rabbis back to, you know, Moshe Rabbenu, you know, Moses at Sinai,
and the church is sort of doing the same thing at the same time, because they want to establish
the legitimacy of their transmission. And I think it's precisely because they need to establish
the legitimacy of their view. I'm not saying wrong or right, you know, it's a theological
issue, but they have to establish the legitimacy of their view and trace it back to, you know, the
bishops in Rome, et cetera, or wherever they may be. And I think both groups are in essence
trying to consolidate. I mean, as a rabbi, I mean, I obviously believe that, you know, the rabbis are
good. But I mean, in the aftermath of the Second Temple, I really see Judaism, the rabbinic movement
as a, what would be the word, it's a movement that's made up of many different parts. It's sort of
trying to integrate the fragments of, you know, that are left in the aftermath of the
coalition movement. That's the word that I was looking for. It really has, you know, has to deal
with the remnants of the Kohanim, the priesthood, and there might be ideas that are, you know,
the Mishnah, for example, always records like minority views, or, you know, debates among the
rabbis, and the Talmud, and so forth. And some of these are, you know, vestiges of earlier times
when these views may have hold sway, but they're sort of trying to consolidate that because they
want to keep those elements alive. I think in the Christian realm, at least my understanding is that
there's not so much of a willingness to keep a minority view on the table, because in many ways,
I think Christianity at the time is much weaker. You know, it's the temple has been destroyed,
so they're having to grapple with their own connections to Jews and Judaism,
and then they're being threatened by all these different, you know, groups that are,
you know, have their different Christologies. And, you know, so they don't have the luxury,
I think, that the rabbis have to be able to preserve minority views and say, well, you know,
maybe in the future, if we have a bait den that, you know, a veneque court that decides that the
minority view should be adopted, you know, that's something for the future to look at.
But in Christian circles, I think things are much more tenuous. And I think that we,
it gets back to this image of, you know, the strength of Christianity in that second century. I
think it's very fragile. And I think that fragility is actually what causes it to sort of be, you
know, reject whatever it considers to be threatening. Yeah, you try to unify under one kind of umbrella.
I like what you said there, because in the aftermath of the wars, both wars,
it seems that a, of course, rabbinic Judaism is birthed. I did an interview with James Tabor on
this, the oven. What is the name of that oven? Yeah, it's interesting. I haven't launched that one
yet. That one's going to be on Patreon sometime soon. It's really interesting to hear, even like
the very minutiae of how important the details go within rabbinic tradition, but how they're kind
of, what I would say, creating kind of their own little pedigree back to the prophets, or even
Moses and stuff. I think the same for the Christians are doing the same thing. And they're, like you
said, they're trying to have their clout go back to the guy, Peter, or go back to Jesus, or go back
to Paul, or whatever in the Gnostics are definitely trying to bring it back to Paul. I just use the
term Gnostics in an umbrella sense, even though we know that's probably not the best term to describe
the various groups of people, Valentinians, etc. But I think that that fiction gives people kind of a
comfort of, you know, we go way, way back, because it's not in denial that the people go way, way
back in the traditions do, but let's give them a simple, clear, it's not, you know, let's not give
an ugly, let's make our genealogy completely fit. You get what I'm trying to say. Well, I think I
would phrase it a little bit differently in the sense that I think, you know, because I, people
have to separate a historical approach to these topics from a theological view. And people get
often get frustrated with me because they'll ask me a question, and I'll say, well, do you want a
theological view, or do you want a historical response? And I tell them it's critical because
I believe the rabbis, you know, have this lineage, I do, you know, from a theological standpoint,
I believe, you know, we have the authority, sort of, so forth. But from a historical standpoint,
I can only prove so much. Right. I can only, you know, and Rabbi Jacob Neuser used to say,
well, we cannot show, we cannot know. So, you know, we have, you know, the destruction of the
Betamegdash, the temple, this is a catastrophic event in, you know, 70 CE at the hands of the
Romans. It sends shockwaves, you know, through the Jewish world. I mean, I don't think we,
I don't think Christians, certainly, but I don't think you think even Jews understand sometimes
the magnitude of how important this was. And I think there's, I wouldn't say the fiction,
but we're trying to reassemble the pieces, you know, the, it's like everything is shattered,
and then we're picking up the pieces and trying to put the puzzle back together.
And the way to do that is to say, well, you know, we have a tradition that says that, you know,
the prophets, the Nevi'im, these are our predecessors. And it's, I don't, it's not that I
don't think it's true, but we don't have like all the puzzle pieces, and we're trying to put
the picture back together again. And so I think that for many people, they, they grow uncomfortable
because they feel like it's a personal attack, you know, if they're Christian, you know, if they're
coming from that perspective or Jew. But I try to say, listen, you know, you have to look at it from
two vantage points, you know, belief, and then what we can talk about historically. And I think
that maybe helps people to say, okay, you know, I understand a more critical approach is, is what
we're discussing. Right. That's typically what I do here, too, is more of the critical approach. But
I get it. That's why I say, theologically, I think there's a sense of comfort of making it easy,
especially if genealogies were burnt, let's just say in the temple, let's just assume that
genealogies are burnt. So now you have kind of word of mouth. And in a chaotic situation,
I mean, even the establishment of some of the literature, like in Genesis, I would say,
I see it as like a foundation mythology for the creation of how God chose out among all the humans,
particular people of minority that just, you know, were less than all the other nations.
And of course, he had a special plan for them. I would say that that that, if we take Adam,
for example, historically in the kind of genre, right, I'm not reading this as literal literature,
literally what happened, I think there's meaning and value in the narrative and trying to express
an idea. But if we were to say what really happened, that's the kind of thing I'm wondering if it
be applied to what's going on with both the Christian and even though the Christians
are as far removed as maybe some of the literature might be, it still makes me wonder if they're
kind of doing a theological origin story that connects genealogically to Peter when really,
you know, they may not be connected at all. Or there may be many branches, you know,
I think, you know, the, there's a very famous rabbi, you may probably have heard of them,
Rabbi Abraham Joshua Heschel, he was very famous during the civil rights movement.
And somebody asked him for the Jewish view. And he said, you know, there isn't a Jewish view,
there it's, you know, Jewish Judaism is like a deep river. And there are many tributaries and many,
you know, what's the word, you know, branches that that come in and out. And it's just,
there's all these ideas that are coming in. And I think what you have, even I think in the first
century, looking at early Christianity, for lack of a better term, is you have these many different
movements. I think you see that even in the book of Acts, I think you see it in the Gospels.
But whatever the case, we know that there's these different competing views. And even
if you read the Epistles of Paul, he has differing opinions with other people that he names, right?
We don't necessarily, you know, some of them are confusing, like I don't know exactly all the
background, but it's clear that he's an opposition to other people that are part of this Jesus
movement. And I think that's interesting, because in many ways, it shows that it was much richer
in terms of its diversity. And I think in many ways, you see that in emerging rabbinic Judaism
as well, we just record it differently, you know, the debate and the discussions are sort of par for
the chorus. And I think in Christianity, they take on a very different theological
intensity that the rabbis, you know, can can they deal with it differently, I think is the issue.
Wow, there's so much there to to sift through, right? All right, I'm going to ask you Super Chat
here. Max, if you're still here, thank you so much for the Super Chat. If you have a question,
feel free. Rabbi one is hanging out with us here for just a little bit. And also,
don't forget to get one of his books. I look forward to hearing some people telling me what
you think about his books. The one we're talking about today is Reimagining Boundaries, but wow,
you have a ton of books. So the question is on the screen. Max, the confessor, thank you so much.
The father's complain about the fact that the laity were practicing pagans and Jews as bad as it is.
Chris's thumbs against the Jews was written for Christians using the Jewish liturgical calendar.
Well, I would say that it goes even beyond that it goes to individuals that are actually visiting
the synagogue because they see importance and value there. You know, one of the areas that I
write in is on Sephardic history, the Jews of what we call Spain and Portugal. And what's interesting
is that the one of the earliest references, how do we know that there were Jews in the Iberian
Peninsula? Well, we know because there was a church council in 303 in the town of Elvira.
And one of the things that this church council says is that it is necessary to stop this
Christian interaction with Jews. You know, they're eating with Jews. They're marrying Jews.
They are going to Jews to bless their field. They see a theological and cultural connection
that the Sinod, very early in the history of Christianity, sees as very problematic.
And so I think that it's not just a calendar. I think it's other practices. You know,
Josephus talks about Jewish practices that have spread throughout the Roman Empire.
I know people today that are not Jewish and they like to bought candles. I think even
Dr. Tabor, you know, is very, you know, pro-Jewish things. He does that. He's not Jewish. And you
know, as far as I know, he didn't convert, but I meet many people like that. They love Hanukkah
and they don't mean any kind of offense like a cultural procreation. They see it almost as like
honoring, you know, their roots of their faith. And I think you have like a little snippet of that.
You can see that back in that point. And I think the issue is at that particular, you know, the
third, four centuries, it's much more of a concern. You know, they didn't have the same kind of
pluralism that we take for granted today in the sense of beliefs and practice. So
yeah, I always love when Dr. Tabor is like, Hey, don't, you know, let me have my break. I'm taking
my Shabbat. Okay. And there is a sense, a practical sense. And I mean, even like regardless of the
religious aspects, there's a sense in which it really does kind of make you and the rest of your
family being able to spend that time together and enjoy the peace and quiet and not having to stress
and worry. While we were over there, we literally celebrated a little bit of that together. So I
don't even believe, but I like there's a sense of a community and having each other that was just
like, and notice I use the term in a Protestant sense, I had to throw out my I don't believe,
but that's because I live in a world where there's this constant debate, right, of what do you believe,
what do you believe? And you might say that to a Jew who's not in America, right? You mean what
do I practice, right? Like what I what I how I live? No, no, no, I'm talking about what in your
head do you project to think is the case and isn't the case? And they're like, well, I guess it would
be my behavior. So we're not really concerned so much with what what we like think as much as how
we live and act. And it's quite interesting. Yes, you can see the Protestant influence there.
Yes, I think I think many Christians are looking for credo statements. And I think that we we have
an element of that that has seeped into Judaism. I think especially surprisingly, through someone
called the Rambam or Rabbi Moshe Ben Maimon, it's not that what he states is problematic in terms
of its essential beliefs, but we didn't necessarily have a creed. We have this, you know, these
principles that I guess you could say, but in general, it's not something that, you know, we
communicate in the same fashion. And I think it's very telling what you said about just the
words themselves imply certain things. And that's the, you know, getting out of that is the problem,
I think. Yeah. And this is why I was excited to have you join me too. Like I, I want more
interfaith dialogue. And I mean, yes, people know I'm a skeptic. I'm very critical of thinking
what actually happened. But I'm a big fan of fiction. I like watching, watching movies about
this stuff, even like, I mean, look, of course, I love the Bible stories, you know, I grew up on
those. I love the stories. Do I think they literally happened? Well, now we start talking about
what do we think actually happened and stuff. But I don't think we should be running around
hurting people with our views. And that, so my, my gut, my whole mission is to things educate people
with what we know, understanding what we can learn about what people think, what they believe,
what the facts are, history, historical methodology, all that fun stuff, right? From both
understanding faith positions theologically and then also understanding historical. But I have to
admit, and I'd love to get your thoughts about this rabbi. I do have a problem with fundamentalism
when there are extreme ideas that cause us to harm our neighbors to go out of our way. And I mean
by harm as in like, my projection is being pushed on you that you're going to go to hell forever.
You're going to hell according to many Christians, which I kind of chuckle when I hear it, but it's
sad at the same time. That is the stuff that I really don't like. And so I do speak up against that
kind of stuff here on my channel. I want to change that. And I want people to stop. And I have had
friends, Dr. Justin Sledge, he's also a practicing Jew. You know, he's scholarly. We've talked about
some of the anti-Semitic stuff that goes on. There's a lot of YouTubers who are YouTube channels
that have existed or people on YouTube who want to say, you can't be critical of Judaism or you
can't be critical of this and that. And I'm like, my channel has plenty of things critical of like,
but there's a difference. There's a difference between being critical and then you like universally
imagining there's a conspiracy that Jews are out to get you. And like weird stuff like that that
literally goes into the trope of what we see happening happening in the political propaganda
of Nazi Germany and stuff. So like there's things you got to draw lines on, but you I've never had
like Jews run at me and try to go, if you don't convert to no hide, I'm taking your head off.
Like, I guess there's something I can incorporate. I might get marketing.
But seriously, yeah, I think it's interesting because
what I always I get in trouble sometimes among Jews because they, you know, they say, what do
you have to write about these topics? You know, it's like, you're always talking about the stuff.
And I said, no, it's for me, it's important because if I expect Christians to reconsider ideas that I
think are problematic, Christian antisemitism, or this kind of, you know, these conspiracy theories
or whatever they may be, then I have to be willing also, and we as a community have to be willing to
reconsider certain biases that may have originated in the medieval period, rightly so. I mean, if
you're being persecuted, if you're a minority in Europe in, you know, the 13th, 14th century,
it's not going to be fun, you know, to be the only Jew, if you will, in the sea of medieval
Christianity. But we're not, and this is something I repeat, we don't live in the medieval period
anymore. We live in a free society. And I'm not interested in debates. I'm interested in dialogue.
I'm interested in having a conversation. I'm not looking to convince you. But listen, if you say
something that's important, and I find it credible, I'm going to think about that. Hey, that's a good
point. I didn't think about that. I think that's the problem that we don't know how to converse
anymore. And this is why this topic is not just historical for me. It's what I see on a daily
basis. I had an individual who was Jewish, he grew up Jewish, and he became a Christian.
And something happened, and he came to our synagogue. What am I supposed to do? Yell at
this person and say, oh, you know, no, you know, what's going on? You know, Shabbat Shalom, you
know, we have a cot, we talk, we eat together. Then you have another individual who is a Christian
who becomes a Jew. It's like, why is there a need to hate? There's no need to hate. You know, people
are adults, we live in a free society. What we can do is we can converse, and we try to understand.
And I tell people, it's not about agreement. I think it's about understanding and respecting,
and I think that will get us much farther along in, you know, fighting these kinds of issues.
Because I see, obviously, my concern is anti-Semitism. We had a situation in Colleyville,
Texas. I don't know if you heard about that a year or two ago. There was a guy that went into
synagogue. Shalom. Yeah, it was. But I also see, you know, sometimes we have biases against
other communities, and I think it's important for us to say, hey, we should be, we're very
fortunate to live in the United States of America. We're at the table. Nobody's excluded.
So we should also be understanding of other people's perspectives. And that's sort of
the gist of where I'm coming from. So it seems through history, like you mentioned the medieval
time. And we'll wrap things up here shortly. I won't keep you too long, as long as you're
comfortable here. If I try to put myself in the shoes, because there's stuff you might find,
I've been told in the past, of course, and I've looked up some of these sources,
and there's definitely ugly stuff you can find from Jewish authors against Gentiles.
You definitely find plenty of that in the other way around. And if my family was in a predicament
where there's a forced conversion idea or a persecution happening to me, I hope that people
would not, first of all, forever hate these people because they have descendants and their
children don't really know the things that maybe their parents did, whatever it might be. But I
would hope that people wouldn't judge me forever because I'm stuck in this situation in my little
pocket of history and this little pocket of time where this particular group of individuals they
call themselves Christians are coming at me. So I have this very negative outlook and perception
of them. So I write, let's say in the Zohar, we find something pretty anti- Gentile. But you find
out historically why this person has such an animosity towards these Christians who are really
persecuting them and treating them like crap, even sometimes killing them. I said that to say,
Nazi Germany, like if I was a Jew, and that happened to me, I don't know how I would react,
but I would imagine hate would be my immediate go to. Yes, absolutely. And if you read something I
wrote, you'd be like, he hates Gentiles. But if my forever descendants were reading that thinking
we should forever hate Gentiles, no, I can't see that far into the future. I'm stuck in a situation
where they're taking me to a camp and I'm separated from my family and gas chambers the whole nine.
Like, so this is real talk here. This is sensitive material, but it's necessary because I think that
boundary, like a strict line between Jew and non-Jew happened after something like that again.
And so we're trying to merge those lines again in light of what's happened in Nazi Germany.
I think if you look at the Renaissance period, I wrote a book called Judyizing Jesus,
Radical Jewish Approaches to Christianity. And what I wrote about were a series of rabbis
in the Italian peninsula, they're living in the Renaissance, you know, the rediscovery of classical
text and languages and history. And they began to interact with Christianity much more deeply,
I think, out of necessity because they lived on the Italian peninsula, right? This is the heart of
Papacy and so forth. And you could argue that it's for political reasons, but they began to
sort of reconsider a lot of these age old perspectives on Christians and non-Jews because
they're saying, listen, you know, we live, it's amazing, right? They're saying we live in the
modern world, it's the 1500s, 1600s. But for them, this is a different time. And they can almost,
I think, in a sense, even genuinely begin to appreciate some positive things that have happened
in the world as a consequence of Christianity. And in Islam, the Rambam, the individual that
I mentioned before, Rabbi Moses Ben-Maimon, he wrote in his works that even Christianity and
Judaism are part, I'm paraphrasing, they're part of the redemptive process. Why? Because they carry
the name of God, the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob throughout the entire world. I think that's
a positive statement. You know, whatever his personal experiences were, because his family were
persecuted by Islamic al-Muhadis coming from North Africa, he could say, you know what, at least I
see that they have a component of faith, you know, in the God of, you know, Abraham. And you sort of
have to say, well, that's positive. And I think that, you know, throughout, you know, from the
Renaissance period onward, and of course, in America, I think Jews are always concerned about
assimilation, rightly so. You know, we live in a country which has been very wonderful for Jews,
and it's been more challenging for Judaism, because we're so accepted that it's easy for a Jew
to leave Judaism. And I think sometimes there's this kind of back and forth, you know, you want
to be accepted, but you want to have like a distance between you because you're afraid of
assimilation. But I think that many Jews recognize that, again, we don't live in the medieval period,
and as a consequence, we sort of have to change our thinking somewhat in certain areas. I don't
think it implies differences in halachic observance in terms of how we keep the commandments in this
vote. But I think it's an issue of attitudes, you know, in those cases where we do find maybe
troubling texts. And I think a lot of it, as you said, is a consequence of reaction. If you're
being persecuted, if the church considers you to be the sons of Satan, or it considers you to be
demonic, you know, in many ways, your natural tendency is to going to push back and almost,
you know, throw that insult back at the dominant culture. And I think many Christians have recognized
that and said, no, you know, that's not appropriate. That was wrong. And I think as a consequence,
you know, there were, I think it was back in 2015, there were 50 Orthodox rabbis. One of them was
a rabbi that I had studied with Rabbi Ashur Lopatin. They signed a document. It was very
controversial. But it was very positive about Christianity because they said, listen, we had
Vatican II, where the Catholic Church made these monumental changes and and reconsiderations about
their theology regarding Jews. That was back in the 60s. You know, they said, I think it's time that
we sort of do the same. And in essence, sort of like the Rambam and many of these Italian rabbis,
that we sort of consider, you know, that Judaism and Christianity were, we have similar goals in
terms of, you know, proclaiming the name of God, if you will, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob
throughout the nations. Now, we have different approaches and so forth. But I think it was
very conciliatory. And I think that that kind of reconsideration has to happen. It's in our best
interest. I think even selfishly, I think it's, you know, if we show people, yes, you know, we're
not interested in converting others, but we do have a concern on a personal level for the, for
the welfare of individuals who are of other faiths. I think that only strengthens, strengthens the
Jewish community. I don't think it harms us in any way. Thank you for that. Imnaq says, and thank
you for the super chat. Just to say you have free will and then move to say, but if you don't,
you will go to hell, that itself is traumatizing. These ideas need to be destroyed. So this is
something that, you know, I came out of a fundamentalist background. I know how mentally
traumatizing, really taking this stuff so little, or even the second coming, am I going to get left
behind like different things like that that I had nightmares about many years ago and all of that.
So this is something that I do want people to understand. You know, you can think maybe justice
will come. Like I hope Justin justice will come for all bad and good in the world, right? That's
okay. But when you start thinking in terms of this other group out here, they don't believe
or think like me and they're going to hell for all eternity or they should be stamped out or
whatever might be. These are far extreme views that I do want to try and make things less extreme.
And I do that with this channel. Imnaq, I really appreciate the super chat. Did you want to comment
on this before I ask you something else? Are you asking them or like asking me if you wanted to
comment on that? Yeah, I think so. I mean, this is something very important and practical. I've
got three boys. I told you 10, 8, 3. And, you know, our mission is to raise them as observant Jews.
But we interact constantly with people that are not Jewish. And we often tell them, you know, well,
this person is not a, you know, they're not the same. They don't believe the same or they don't
practice the same. But, you know, they are made in the image of God, you know, but they're made
in the image of the Creator. And so we have to respect them. Now, if they ask you a question,
you can explain it. You can learn from them. But there doesn't have to be this us and them.
Yes, we have this idea of all Israel. We pray for that on a daily basis. But, you know, we have
individuals. I had a person who is a Christian call me on Monday and say, listen, I'm sick.
Rabbi, could you pray for me? Absolutely. Absolutely. Why would I not pray for that person?
The fact that they're reaching out, you know, they have, you know, maybe different perspectives.
Why would I not do that? This is something that I think brings, I would say, Kiddish Hashem,
it glorifies the name of God, it sanctifies the name of God. And I think I would agree on the
issue of fundamentalism. You know, being zealous for something is not problematic. But when you
are not capable of looking at things from the other side, I think it can be very damaging.
I see that a lot. Yes. So you mentioned something, and this brings me to the final point I wanted
to bring in light of your book, Reimagining Boundaries. Goodness gracious, we need to really
reimagine these. And even in our current context, how we discuss and have conversations with people
that we don't agree with. Even in the chat sometimes of my own channel, you'd almost imagine people
with their little torches going, attack them! Can you believe it, Rabbi? I'm just making the point.
There's some people occasionally that might come in and want to see a food fight. They want to see
a war between you and me. We have differences of opinions at the end of the day of what we think is
true, or maybe even sometimes what we think is good or bad in the world around us. But I have had
some people who want to go so far as to say, well, there are Jews who don't think everybody's made
in the image of God. There are some, I would say, maybe bigoted Jews today toward Gentiles,
to people who are non-Jews. And I personally don't go out of my way. I have no interest,
personally. I've never been harmed by any Jewish people in my life. So maybe I'm in a special
situation. Maybe a Palestinian might have a different position in some places in the world,
where there's abuse happening to them and from Jews. But I ask this to get your take on how
this can be addressed. I see Jews as a minority in the world we live in.
And I don't want to see anybody as a threat. But when people have come at me about this,
I look at what I see happening in the Middle East. And I think, well, if I look at the numbers,
right, Islam has more people of violence and things that have happened overall than what
I see with a minority group of Jews. So if I were to say, hey, which group has more problems,
I would look at more because there's a much larger population with Islam. That doesn't mean
Muslims. We should not categorize all Muslims, right? You got to be very careful about their
extremists. There's this, there's that, various sects. Now, when we're dealing with people who
might be bigoted within Orthodox Judaism or something, how do you as a rabbi within the
community address these ideas? Sometimes they might look and cherry pick certain rabbis in history
that have an anti Jewish or anti Gentile view. And so they kind of pick up on this notion.
What does the Jewish community do to try and like change those things? Well, I think that,
you know, the easiest response is that if you look at the history of some of the greatest rabbis,
you find out that they were descendants of converts. You know, they were of the nations,
they were, if you want to say their descent, you know, backgrounds were non Jews or Gentiles,
they converted to Judaism and they became leaders among the people of Israel.
Abraham, of course, is essentially a convert. You know, he is called out from the east
and he travels and he enters into this covenant with Hashem, with God. And he becomes, you know,
if you want to say Hebrew at that time, but in essence, the first Jew. I mean, he initiates this
path. And I think the fact that he is, you know, not from this background, you know,
he's coming into this is the example that we should follow. It's not right to treat people
wrong. It's not acceptable. It's a little Hashem, it desecrates the name of God to treat people
in a way that is demeaning. And it's frankly, it's stupid. I mean, why would you antagonize
people? I mean, I try to tell people, you know, I try to be explain explain things on a on a
theological level. And sometimes I tell them, just think about it practically. Why would you
antagonize if you live in a dominant society, right? You live in a culture that's not your own.
Why would you do things that are antagonistic? Why not be respectful? Why not, you know, try to
understand and to learn, you know, mocking? You know, that's not appropriate. It doesn't
help. And I think when you look at Jewish history, you see that some of the greatest rabbis have had
this interaction with non-Jews. There was a there was a rabbi who's we call him Rashi,
Rabbi Solomon bin Isaac. He's considered to be probably the greatest biblical commentator by
many Jews, not all. He lived in the medieval period in France. And he was in a Yeshiva in
a rabbinical school, if you want a rabbinical academy. And there was a priest or, you know,
I forgot the exact position that he held. Some of the priests and some of the friars would come
and they wanted basically help with their, you know, their language studies, their Hebrew studies.
And a lot of the people there would be, you know, why, you know, go away, you know, we don't want
to have any interaction with you. And Rashi was very accommodating. He would, you know, oh, yes,
you know, this particular word means this, this is the way we interpret this word. He was very
congenial, cordial with them. One of these individuals came to be the bishop of Troy's,
or Troyus in France. And he protected the Jewish community when the crusaders came and tried to
destroy that area. I think that's an amazing story. A little bit of kindness, a little bit of
investment wound up having long-term ramifications for that Jewish community. Now, even if that
weren't the case, it's the right thing to do because, you know, we've seen in other cases where
people say, you know what, I appreciate the fact that you're helping me and my quest to know,
you know, God, whatever that form may take. And, you know, that, that trek may be different.
But I think that willingness to help is always going to be the appropriate path. And I think it
shapes the way we look at other people. And, and just demeaning people is not acceptable. I don't
see any benefit to that whatsoever. Yeah, I don't either. I think that trying to find common ground
is important. It's, it's really one of those things I could find people probably in my own
community that go under the label atheist and I'd be like, very hateful. I mean, usually they're
popular ones that are on the internet, but very hateful, kind of gutter level kind of
communication with people who aren't thinking like them. You can see the same thing within
Christian fundamentalist circles. And some people want to point out that this is also
something true within Judaism. You have certain rabbis, like I said, that might be very bigoted,
very disrespectful, derogatory. And whereas lots of Christians who are more liberal or more
non fundamentalist will clearly call out the people who are the extremes on in their camp or
that umbrella themselves under the term Christian. Does the same apply with the Jews within Orthodox
circles or Jews period that call out those who are being bigoted and hateful toward those that
are non Jews? I think that there, it just depends on the particular community. You know, some
communities are much more insular. I think most communities that would hear that would condemn
that without question. But you know, sometimes it's again, people paint these broad brushes,
you know, you look like about Orthodox Judaism. There isn't one singular Orthodox Judaism.
You know, there are many different groups and there's a spectrum like as always, there are some
that are fundamentalist. We have Sephardic and Ashkenazic differences and there are Jews that
are even outside of those particular cultural ethnic categories. It's just, you know, we have
modern Orthodox and you know, some people would say that they're left leaning, you know, liberal
Orthodox. I mean, there's many different kinds, the same in the conservative movement. You have
two wings. I mean, the conservative movement has changed, but there used to be a much more
conservative wing traditional, and then there's more of a progressive wing. So these, these groups
are very dynamic. And I think whenever there's a public statement, many people condemn it.
Obviously, the people that want to focus in on those comments, I can even see in some of the
comments on the chat, but you know, they're pointing out, you know, sort of critiques,
which is perfectly fine. I expect that. But it's these kinds of assumptions that people make. Well,
what about this? And what about that? And it's almost like trying to find every single thing.
And it's like, I'm more interested in the bigger picture. What is it that I have to contribute?
And what is it that I can further, you know, positive relations? And what can I learn from,
you know, somebody who's, you know, from a Christian standpoint or other standpoint,
there's a tremendous amount of literature that is, you know, beneficial. Like you said,
there's, there's benefit in the stories themselves. And I think I don't have to feel threatened
because somebody doesn't believe what I believe. And it doesn't make me better because I think
less of them know it's like, I believe firmly in what I'm doing and my family and our commitment
and our synagogue. But I still have the ability to have open, you know, my goodness, if you want
to say that to other perspectives. Yeah, I think that's great. And I'm the same way.
My whole family is a Christian or Christian, you know what I mean? And I came out of it and I'm
like, well, you know, I try not to have those conversations to possibly offend anybody. But
when they come up, I tell them what I think and I try to be honest.
Graves174 says, is there any recorded speculation from rabbis that I can read about if Paul is in
hell? I don't know of any direct reference to Paul. I think there was an article that I saw
in academia that mentioned the possibility, but I didn't really get into the article.
I would just recommend looking at academia.edu and maybe type in a couple of search terms,
you know, Paul Jewish, Tom Litt or something like that. It's a great resource. And there's some very
interesting perspectives that I've read lately on this issue of Jewish and Christian relations in
the first and second centuries, which I think in many ways are transformative. But that's for
another time. You've written a lot. And there's some books that have my peak, my curiosity. I'm
like, we really should promote those books and talk about them. I really appreciate you coming on,
hanging out with me and having this chat. I have, I don't know what it is. I go under the title
atheist, right? Just because I don't, I don't believe that there is something like that out there.
I get the utility of it. I understand why people hold to these beliefs. But like, I have a lot of
friends that are both Christian and Jewish. A lot of people go, you're so critical of Christianity,
though. How do you have friends who are Christians? Well, if you talk to those Christians, they'll
tell you that they probably agree with a lot of my critiques of the Christianity that I'm like,
literally showing, like they agree, there may be contradictions and various authors with different
perceptions, like they're very open minded to these things. And even when they do disagree,
even when I am being critical, and it's like, I don't know, I don't follow your conclusion.
There are people who financially have supported me on Patreon and still do who love and value the
education that I bring, even if they disagree with my conclusions. It shows you. That's kind of
disagreement I like. Like you said earlier, like, can you understand where the other persons come from,
even if you disagree? And I try to do the same thing with my Jewish friends. I try to do that
with my Christian friends. And I think this is what we should be doing more. People love a fight.
I imagine the gladiator rings back in the day were loaded with humans. I mean,
at the same time, look at the effects, look at like, so do we want the bloodshed or do we want
more sophisticated communication that allows each other to understand the dynamics? I get the utility
of taking a Saturday off Sabbath, you know, like chilling, you know, I get the utility. And in fact,
when I go and visit in Jerusalem, guess who's chilling on Sabbath? This guy.
You know, like, so I hope we can create a better world with our conversations. Is there anything
you might want to add? I'll share one thing from one of my rabbis, Rabbi Byron El Sherwin,
that I mentioned to Blessed Memory. He was in Chicago. He taught at the Swardis Institute.
He passed away back in 2015. And, you know, he would share stories. He would be asked by the
Cardinal or the Bishop of Chicago, when they would install a new one, he would be the representative
of the Jewish community, and they would invite him over. And then the Bishop would say, can you
give us a Dabar Torah? Can you give us like a little sermon, if you will, a little drosh?
And, you know, he pulls out something from his, you know, pocket and he's giving the Catholic,
you know, entourage there, you know, lessons about the Torah. And it's just to me, it's just an
amazing portrait that you have these two, you know, entities, religious systems that have had,
you know, tough times in the past, but they could sit down, they can have some coffee,
and they can share, you know, a conversation and even some thoughts theologically. And I think
that's an amazing thing. And that I think in many ways has inspired me to pursue this as controversial,
as sometimes it becomes in certain circles. But I think that's, that's what I envision. And I think
that's the path for the future. I love where your heart's at and what you're aiming for. And I know
that more people are heading in that path. And we're making a change right now. People are watching
and they see, wow, this is good. We want good, we want good, we want to create less friction and
fraction between groups that may disagree at the end of the day. Yes. Okay. You know, but the hate
stuff is what I'm really not a fan of. And I'm glad that we're heading that way. Even
equi-centric says, ah, sophisticated communication, more please. May it spread in the realm like wild
fire. I agree. I agree. And to promote your books again, so that people know, you literally just
have to click the links down in the description. He has written how many books have you written,
like 20 something? I think it's a total of 34, but some of them are short works, you know,
like more like Kindle. You know, the big books are probably half that. I mean, I call a big book,
you know, several hundred pages, but it's they're just all over, you know, some of them are intros,
some of them are, you know, hundreds of pages long. So I have a couple of novels in there
that I've thrown in just for my kids, but I enjoyed that process, but a little bit of everything.
There's so much. Yeah, I definitely know that we have some more stuff to talk about. There's plenty
here. Go check him out, go support what he's doing by getting a copy of his work and also his
website. So if you want to become part of his email list and get a free book, The Jews of Iberia,
you can go get a copy right now, send me the free book. I suspect all you got to do is give an email,
right? That's it. Get the email, go help out Rabbi Juan. I really appreciate that. We didn't even talk
about some of the cool stuff that I was going to get into like Spanish people that are in the Jewish
community, because my other big area, yes. Now, like I lived in Puerto Rico for two and a half years
and my dad was stationed there. So I definitely, in some way have lived in a Spanish speaking world
and then, but maybe that's another topic for a different discussion. Sure. Whenever you're
up to it. Absolutely. I hope people will come check us out on the Patreon, help support us here
at MythVision. And we have a website, of course, for courses that we just recently launched within
the last few months. We have some scholars coming on. Kip Davis, he's a Hebrew Bible scholar.
I've got Robin Faith Walsh courses coming up. I've got Dennis R. McDonald. We have Delcey Allison,
Jr. in David Litwa. Richard Carrier, like the list goes on. We've got a lot of scholars, so go check
us out as well. And I guess that's me promoting literally any final words before we enter the
matrix or exit the matrix, really. Well, just thank you so much for the opportunity. I really
enjoyed it. I think you're doing something great. I just, I think it's a, it's a unique, you know,
venue and it's, it's, you're sort of in that middle ground. And that's sort of that kind.
I think it reflects that kind of crossing of ideas and paths. And I think it's very good. So thank
you so much again. Thank you. Yeah, we definitely are in a strange place. But at the end of the day,
I think it's trying to bring balance. And yeah, it's sophistication, you know, I'm into that
knowledge and wanting to know what's going on. Because I love this stuff. Yes, I do. I wouldn't
do it if I didn't love it. So thank you so much, Rabbi Juan. Everybody, give him a round of applause
if I could make the noise right now I would. But let's do this again sometime. Okay. Thank you.
All right. Thank you. Son, do you want to know what the truth is? After this, there's no turning
back. You take the blue pill and you wake up in your bed and believe whatever you want to.
You take the red pill and you stay in Wonderland. And I show you just how deep the rabbit hole goes.
Remember, all I'm offering is the truth. Nothing more.
