All right, ladies and gentlemen, we are MythVision,
and I'm here with Dr. John Dominic Cross
and how you doing?
Hi.
So we just did a bunch of recordings.
I feel like we did a lot of recordings.
I'm gonna bring this back
just so we can both get in the frame.
I wanna say thank you to the Patreon members
for supporting me and doing what I'm doing,
making these possible.
His book, Render Unto Caesar, get it read,
get it read, get you a copy, order it Amazon.
It's on Audible.
You can listen to it, must read,
because we're gonna be doing some live streams.
And when we do, we wanna do Q&A.
We want the Q&A to stay focused on the book,
but I wanna get more people acquainted with it.
I loved the work, really excited.
If you don't mind, tell me, why did you write this book?
Well, the coin fascinated me.
I lived in Jerusalem for two years,
and so many in the old city,
I was living just outside the Damascus Gate
in the French School of Archaeology.
This was, I was 65 to 67 for the war.
So somebody sold me, not a real coin,
I knew it wasn't a real coin,
but a silver denarius, just enough.
This is the type of coin that Jesus had.
And I thought, fine, I like it,
it's nice to have a silver denarius.
It was about the size of a dime,
and it's written in Latin, and it's abbreviated Latin.
And I was trying to think,
I wonder what Jesus have known how to read,
abbreviated Latin.
Would he have known that F means philius,
or AUG means Augusta?
Would he have known this,
and would his people have known it?
Wouldn't he be talking Aramaic, not Latin?
Is this really the coin?
This is the most likely coin.
So the book really starts with,
what I think it's on the cover, you can see it.
The coin that most likely was the coin,
because it says in Greek, theos, sabastos, Kaiser.
It's about the size of a dime,
or that dime, I said, sorry, a quarter.
So it's a larger one, nice, big Greek letters.
You can read it very clearly,
God, Augustus, Caesar, in Greek.
So here's a coin that says God is Caesar, whoops.
And Jesus says, well, you give the Caesar, Caesar stuff,
and you give to God, God, so,
but he's just separated what the coin has equated.
So that started the book.
If Jesus separates what the culture equates,
how did the first Christians,
at least in the New Testament, let's say,
how did they react to it?
Because they had to live under God and Caesar,
the two of them.
How did they do it?
How do we do it?
So the book then is looking at, say, the revelation,
which is a cultivation demonized,
and Luke acts two-volume work,
not a book and a sequel, but a two-volume work,
in which the cultivation is sort of canonized.
Well, what did Jesus himself do about it?
What did the historical Jesus?
And that's what I call a cultivation criticized.
I must admit, in your book.
And that's our model.
Your book, this is what I loved.
You can't read this book and then read your New Testament
and not actually factor in the political,
social aspects that are going on.
And to those of you who are Roman provenance people
who say that Christianity was invented from top down,
well, look to this book for criticism
because this book's gonna be a critical critique
showing a ground-up model.
For those who are interested in the ground-up model,
showing how a grassroots movement
would have evolved into actually,
and I use the term evolved literally
because we talk a lot about that in our interviews,
but to absorb and literally kind of consume the empire
at some point.
This ideology becomes the very thing
that becomes the religion of the empire.
You're gonna wanna read this book.
It covers so many interesting things.
I love the Luke acts.
We did what, eight to 10 recordings?
Yeah, I think so, because we started at 10,
took a break for lunch and it's now about 3.30,
so what's that?
That's about five and a half hours with a half,
except five hours recordings.
I did five hours, I'm going to say with,
but a quickie break for a Starbucks.
I think it's really important to look at the book
and see the questions they're asking
because I'm gonna create a word,
religiopolitical.
You really can't look at Jesus as if he's just religious
and by accident the Romans kind of crucified him
as a mistake.
He was making a claim about how the world should be run,
economically, social, religiously, politically,
and the Romans said, thank you very much,
but we already know how to do it, we're doing it,
and here's the cross,
which is our way of sending you goodbye,
but as I say sometimes, Pilate must have said
when he was talking to his wife that evening,
don't worry, dear, what happens in Jerusalem stays in Jerusalem.
You got that one wrong.
Right, no, it definitely didn't stay in Jerusalem.
It's been a fantastic time with him,
I wanted to do this recording.
For those of you who have, want to see these videos,
I will be editing them over the next few weeks
and start editing them.
There's gonna be some fascinating photos,
you've taken quite a few, I mean,
thousands and thousands of photos over the years,
and some of these photos, we talked about this earlier,
you had to spend quite a bit of money
just to be able to take them and they're,
you have images, not to brag, but let's brag a little,
you have images that no academics have probably even seen
or have not made, they're just not publicly known,
we're gonna try and incorporate some of those.
Yeah, we have some images, the most difficult ones
and the most expensive ones are manuscripts,
say from our day thoughts are the Vatican manuscript room
and they're not very congenial with showing them
outside the book, that may be the typical thing.
You can go into a church and take an image
and nobody stops you and you can put that up, that's fine.
It's World Heritage site, so we have a right.
Manuscripts are tricky, somebody has to keep them in,
bomb proof, germ proof, everything proof vaults
like they have in the Vatican archives.
The elevator goes down and brings them up
and maybe you get to look at them
and gloves and the whole bit.
But they are terribly important
and very often they're terribly expensive to get
and you have to go to Rome to get them and everything else.
So there's, this is the book Resurrecting Easter,
how the West lost and the East kept
the original Easter vision.
The West shows Jesus kind of basically ascending
from the tomb, the East shows Jesus
taking Adam and Eve by the hand out
and Adam and Eve represent the human race.
So how does the East show Jesus
resurrecting the whole human race?
And the West just says he's up there all by himself.
What is happening?
So in the book, the previous book before the,
this one that Derek has been talking about,
the Render on the Caesar, Sarah and I traveled over
the Byzantine world about 15 to 20 times
once a year or twice a year to be able to explain
the people the profound difference
between the theology and iconography imagery
of the Western idea of Easter and the Eastern idea of Easter.
So to put it bluntly, if you are a scholar or anyone else
and you're talking about Easter
and you think the Western image of Easter is it,
then that's a little bit too Eurocentric for me.
It's just wrong because the whole East
has its own very different image.
And that's probably only two of Easter, I would say.
If you looked at the crucifixion, baptism of Jesus,
the annunciation, transfiguration,
writing into Jerusalem,
Eastern and Western pretty much the same.
Only in Easter are they radically different
and that raises a huge issue.
And I conclude with this.
If Paul and the Corinthians had been arguing
about the resurrection and they said,
okay, now we know what crucifixion is, we've seen them.
Draw us a picture, Paul,
of what you think resurrection would have been like.
If we were there, what would we have seen, Paul?
Would Paul have drawn something like the Western one
or the Eastern one?
I think he would have drawn something like the Eastern one.
So the West has lost the heart of Christianity,
the understanding of resurrection.
Wow, so I must say this, as we're wrapping things up,
we have two things here, right?
Two sides to one coin.
We have Dom's books, and yes, he told me to call him Dom.
And then we have Derek, MythVision's Patreon, right?
And I'm gonna put this as succinct as I can.
Render unto Dom, that which is Dom, go get his books.
And render unto MythVision, that which is MythVision's,
join my Patreon.
I think we can harmoniously live in peace
in this type of world, and nobody has to be crucified.
But seriously, his work is amazing.
Other academics, Dr. Tabor swears by it.
He really appreciates your work,
and I really appreciate you coming on my vacation
to do a little work here.
I hope my family will forgive me.
That's the other question.
That's the question.
It's not the whole render unto.
But seriously, get a copy of his works.
I've had a lot of positive feedback
about your work in my chat,
and I know that when we go to do a live feed,
people are gonna enjoy it, so.
Love to do it.
Thank you so much, and never forget,
we are MythVision.
