Dr. Richard C. Miller, you went to Claremont College and you went to get your PhD. You worked
under Dennis McDonald, so you're obviously a bias student of McDonald here when it comes to
mimesis criticism. But you're not so bias, and I'll tell you why. You don't necessarily draw
all the conclusions Dennis does, but you plan on the same field. So there are a lot of people right
now who aren't in our camp. Some are even skeptics who don't buy Dennis's Greek, Homeric, Iliad Odyssey,
or even Aeneid mimesis. Robin thinks there's a lot going on with the Aeneid and Mark and stuff.
She's more convinced that there's probably more connection directly to that kind of
contemporaneous Roman imperial, Octavian, Sons of Caesar kind of motif, but she gets it. There's
mimesis happening. There's something going on. There's rivalry occurring. Wanting to get your
thoughts, criticisms maybe, and also positive responses to what you find in Dennis's work.
So many people find it silly, and they're just like, the consensus says they don't buy Dennis's
mimesis, and that's the first thing I usually hear is the whole fallacy of like, what do the
consensus of New Testament scholarship? I refer you back to our first video about that.
What are your thoughts about mimesis criticism?
Yeah. Well, thank you for calling it a fallacy. I think it's absurd for any scholar to be pointing
to that. Well, most of us don't think that. Well, yeah, most of you weren't trained to even explore
that. Most New Testament scholars today couldn't write a five-paragraph essay on anything about
Homer. They've never studied it. They have no idea what they're talking about.
So let's start with that. So where's that consensus going to be then? Let's go out to the
people who actually have spent some time with Homer that are trained in classics and have spent
some time understanding the impressions and significance of Homer, the canonicity of Homer
in classical antiquity, just how sacred and important these texts were to the Greco-Roman
mind and psyche at the time. Once you start unpacking that and start immersing yourself in
that world, the world that whence Christianity was first born and took took hold in the ancient world
in the Hellenistic East, these urban cultural centers that are bustling with Homeric imagery.
I just was reading Pausanias' description of Corinth the other day. He turns the corner in
there. He's writing. He's a geographer. He's talking about this. It's basically four or five
square mile area there. And sorry, my dog. You were saying your dog obviously came up and
but you were emphasizing they're not trained in this. They're not aware of this. They're not
reading this stuff. But then you're going into some examples. Yeah. These were the most famous
and well-known stories in all of classical antiquity. Are we all on the same page with that in terms of
New Testament work? Now, it's odd to me that we would be studying a religion that was born and
raised in that context and yet ignoring its most cherished literary works. The converts in the
empire were reared in this literature. Those that were educated were educated in this literature.
This is where they learned their ABCs in the classical Greek world. If you were a writer,
when you learned to write, you would use Homer as your template. This is how they were taught
to read. If you go back into Piedutic training, that's their training and writing at the time,
if you go back into that, you'll find that this was the scaffolding on how you would learn to
write. You would be using Homeric passages as kind of a scaffolding for your own literary effort.
This was the common place and there are a number of sources. You could go to Dennis's work, you'd
go to mine. A lot of people just dismiss him out of hand though. That's really upsetting. They don't
go back and actually look at what he's claiming that he's seeing there. He's right. He is absolutely
correct that that was the norm in that context and that these stories would have been ubiquitously
well known. It would be hard to imagine any early convert to the religion not being well
acquainted with that work. The question comes, and here's where I might, Dennis and I, and I
actually think if you were here seated, he would agree with me. In fact, I think we've had this
conversation. Would everyone have picked up on all of these references that he's pointing out,
the parallels and the different syntactical patterns that he's seeing? No. Are all of the
patterns that he's identifying accurate and correct and bulletproof in terms of, you know,
no. But once you admit that there are a few of them happening, once that camel's head is in the
tent, the whole camel's coming in. 100% agree. Yeah. And so now does that mean that that is the
meaning for that passage necessarily? Well, there's the problem. Would an ancient listener have picked
up on each one of those different subtle mimetic clues and cues that were there? Probably not.
And so that's where we have to, I think, think of valence. And this is where I would come at it,
I think that the Gospel texts were written for different kinds of readers, not just one kind
of reader was in their mind. They didn't have just one persona. They had a few different personae.
And so one might be just the normal convert in the community who's maybe not lettered and maybe
not well educated. And there were plenty of Christians that would fit under that camp,
probably most. There are also those that there were more culturally sophisticated and maybe did
go and hear readings of Homer and maybe did have a more of a vivid kind of memory of what's in the
epics. They're also more scholarly individuals. Those are the kind of the educated elite in the
ancient world. They would have needed this in there. This was for them how to try to write a
work in that world that did not express mimetic sophistication would have been to write bad
writing that would not have been terribly well respected in those circles, which we know didn't
happen. The elites of the ancient world did embrace the Gospels and that whole world.
And so we know it made an appeal to them and it won. And in fact, it ended up eclipsing all of that
prior literature and replacing it. So you have the entire mythosystem of the ancient world basically
being replaced with a Christian mythosystem, which is really just almost in many ways similar,
but with Christian decals over the top of it and with its own kind of ascetic and own kind of
ideological paradigm that it's that it's following. And so yeah, quick thing on this note is that
the first thing is the biggest sin is that that most are not seeing this and that that what you
just pointed out. Another example of bringing up lit was since we had talked about our critique of
that is how little wants to argue that there's a cultural influence and he doesn't like literary
playing a role in it. He loves to try and argue from just the cultural well McDonald's you hear
the commercial you hear the jingle they're on each corner kind of like there's plays here and there's
there's a mosaic here and there's a that this and Dennis goes, yeah, I agree. Yeah. And I'm saying
and yeah. So I think Litwood doesn't want to go to that to that textual level of suggesting
there's some textual sophistication playing with the literature. He thinks it's like a
just a some hybrid cultural influence rather. Okay. And Dennis agrees that that's happening too.
But it's like the most of scholars I hear that don't fully go along with Dennis they'll agree in
the vein like little agree with the vein but not go along with them, you know, are not wanting to go
with the literary side. Personally, my opinion, no expert here. I agree that the cultural without
a doubt was going to play an impact on any society ever. But what is driving that cultural influence
if it isn't the literature and it isn't the influx of the canonization of that material
playing out in the cultic practices in the Greek and Roman world and the stories that told the plays
that happened etc. And the writing so I think Dennis is on the money when we're dealing with literature
especially when I find a gospel and then I see another gospel that literally has 90% of that
gospel being used which meant they're somehow verbatim using this other literature to write their
literature. I don't see them going well on the street corner in Corinth I saw this picture some
I mean being influenced by that picture in culture. Yeah, they're literally being influenced
as authors and I don't know why that's not being highlighted in Litwis work or others about this
mimesis. Right. No, I think that's well first I would say that anyone that's that's at least
admitting that there's Homeric influence in the constructs of the New Testament has gone a long
way from where the Academy has been up to this point. So thank you that's a good that's a good
movement. I would commend Litwis for that at least admitting that and seeing okay this is important
and I would go there and in fact I would agree with him that many of the most defining and framing
contours of the like the story arc for instance in Mark they're almost incomprehensible unless
it's read with that anti-text in the background that that that canonical grand text of Odysseus'
journey when he's the incognito king returning home okay well Jesus is the incognito king on his
way to Jerusalem and no one's supposed to know he's telling everyone to be quiet and there you
have the messianic secret right and why is he hushing everyone why is he wanting everyone no one to
well it's almost incomprehensible to other New Testament scholars they try to contrive why that's
happening it's hard like what's the explanation well if you're reading Homer you know the explanation
that's yeah that's why when I read Jesus casting the demons out of the demoniac yeah into swine
swine that drown into the water of the ocean or the sorry the the sea yeah of Galilee which wasn't
even a sea porphyry said I'm sitting here reading this and I'm going that I get that they think
it's convoluted for you to think book think 10 and 11 or was it 9 and 10 I can't remember but it was
the first the polyphemous situation with the Cyclops and they he's eating the sheep and then
they end up gouging his eye out and escaped the Cyclops to go to Cersei's Island where she turns
soldiers into pigs yes I'm Legion which is Roman soldiers that are the swine in the swine thank you
like I you can't I don't know if you can get any clearer yeah it's almost like the question
I've had where I recently had a debate on my channel where the guy goes all right so you're
telling me in Acts chapter 1 verse 11 when Jesus ascends and they said you see him with your eyes
and you see him he will come back in like manner right like in the same way you're seeing him go
he's going to come back this is the argument and the other guy tried to allegorize by running
to another passage that the Greek word says like manner well he says oh Jerusalem Jerusalem how
often I would have gathered you like a hen gathers a chick so he wanted to try to allegorize that
meaning of return right and then I'm using this example to get your point to get to a point I'd
love to get your your point on there is the guy asked him in the debate and he never answered
your dodgy because if he was trying to say that Jesus is going to come back the same way you see
him go how how would he have wrote it like in what better way could he have made it clear
without Xerox clearly copying with this mimesis here because that would have been a big no no
Luke she would have been like oh hell no we know what you're doing you're not being smart enough
and sophisticated with your literature yeah that is there's so many signs in that one narrative for
me it's like the Euryclan word but yeah no I mean that's it's so memesis in the ancient world was
rarely advertised it was rarely you know I think the most bare faced example we have is the Anita
and the Aeneid over the Odyssey in the Iliad right it's its own kind of story arc that's very
similar in terms of the sea journey and the founding of things and all this and so and and
that's a most the most obvious but most of the time when you find memesis in the ancient world
the classes is find this what they're finding is that it's it's meant to be subtle it's meant
it's supposed to be an inside joke it's supposed to be a difficult to see it's supposed to test
your pidea it's supposed to be you know this is these are the clever little literary aspects of
the text that are meant to you know you to be in the insider on the joke so to speak for those that
are more sophisticated and that have read these things now the problem is if if if we were to take
Homer and Hesiod and say Plato and maybe a couple of Euripides plays and glue them to the bottom of
your New Testament and have that be you know the traditional New Testament no one would have any
problem seeing all of this all day you know we might quibble over the details here and there
and to what extent here or what it may mean but I don't think anyone would be confused at all that
that this is going on right and so now that's a big problem when you get to the sea of Galilee
in the big storm there you've got basically what amounts to a lake you mentioned that a minute ago
with you know the divine elements and this raging to mention tempestuous sea and you know a
feckless crew then he has to calm the divine this this is basically lifted straight out of the
odyssey you know and there's no that's not a sea that's a lake it's a hundred feet deep
okay you know it's this isn't the high seas and so let's get honest here and so basically Mark
in the Mark and Story board is transforming this into a Homeric like scene with Jesus playing the
role of Odysseus and the crew and and all of that kind of relation there going on and they're
they're not really they're afraid and he's not etc and so that would have been obvious as well
when he goes to the temple incident another inexplicable part of Mark right he's that he's
going to throw out the money changers like what what's going on here what there are a number of
things we could say about that but not least of which is you've turned my father's house into a
house of thieves right and so now when Odysseus is going returning home this is the climactic scene
this is that mural that we were talking about that they found in Corinth and so many other cities
the climactic scene with Penelope suitors where he's returning home and he's going to cleanse
his father's house this was the family estate so to speak he's going to drive out these individuals
that were trying to suck all the money out of his wife while he was off at war and and and trying to
curry favor with her in order to marry her while he's off fighting and so he's coming back and
saying you guys are horrible and then he comes back in disguise the incognito king like Jesus
and and basically ends up you know beating them and and and and uh proving them all wrong
through his trial of bow stringing the bow and shooting it through the ax heads and the the
classic scene there right and then he kills them all and so that's the climactic scene in the Odyssey
that's the you know the that's where the story finds its ultimate kind of moment there and so
it's the kind of similar in the story arc mark you get to the cleansing of the temple and he's
trying it's his father's house you know and he's the incognito incognito king now was that historical
was there an actual cleansing of the temple was there a man named Jesus that actually
pissed some people off and and flipped over some stuff and ended up getting arrested who knows
possibly you know but certainly it's being fashioned in in Homer in Homeric terms and so I
think uh the intercourse the modern New Testament scholars are willing to allow with the Hebrew
Bible the classical Hebrew texts in terms of memetic play in the gospels um you know that to me
it's unfair that they wouldn't also allow these other texts to also play role and that I think
belies the fact that they were all raised with a with the Bible that had all those texts all glued
together and they thought that that was the way that you know that they were confining their
investigation to that stack of tags or adding to the fairness of representing what they might think
is that they'll say well it clearly signals it is written or thus say the Lord like and then
it'll quote something we know scripture and it's what they want what I think they want is that
clear evidence of it's written so this gets into falsifiability one more time before we get off of
this and that is well how would we know if they weren't um you know mimicking uh Homer I I personally
thought I'd take a jab at that I'd be like well don't have him casting out pigs into lakes on
weird seas that aren't even seas that are just lakes and like and writing these things that seem
quite fantastic that somehow mirror or have resemblance to what we're finding in these
older tales that played huge impacts to the civilizations in which this literature is rising
up on have them go into Palestine and like do it with dogs or like you know avoid it avoid it but
instead they go well why would they do that when he really went to an actual demoniac who was in
the caves cutting himself in the cast of demons like they've got to have that historical what an
uncanny coincidence yeah yeah like I guess God worked through this divine path it's like the recent
discussion I had with Michael Jones was like he answered I thought it was a really weird answer
after I thought about it afterwards was like well if if I were God or an alien and I wanted to convince
people my truth I would just have I would come in working within the same mythic belief systems
and cultic practices that everyone else does so so you have this divine birth of all these other
people well my guy's gonna have a divine birth you you have all these guys who die and go up to
heaven well my guy's gonna die and go up to heaven and like and I'm going to myself and looking at
that back and like I would stand apart if I really had the truth that's getting off kind of of the
point of this mimesis here yeah but why why does it have enough resemblance for people like Dennis
you Robin Faith Walsh to see something going on here but it gets kind of ignored or denied
and they really want a cherry pick so someone will go okay okay we'll grant that kick against
the goads is Euripides bar guy okay so what that's the exception not the rule you see how they are
yeah trying to do it because they don't have a clear it is written they want that it is written
what do you say to that how would you respond to that well again I think there's a theologically
motivated whether it's recognized and admitted or not paradigm here that needs to be broken and
that's the idea that these texts are canonical and need to be sequestered off and read as special
in some kind of a stack there now they're willing to allow okay well let's bring in some Jewish
literature also and that's that starts to get pretty messy pretty fast as well but they're not
allowing the broader sea of Greco-Roman literature first that's a large project and most of these
scholars that are out in the field weren't trained in it most of them have never even read Homer
certainly not from beginning to end you know they might have cherry picked a line here or there but
they don't know what the reading and so and they certainly don't know the significance that Homer
held over over the mind of the of the ancient world and so that that to me is a as a big red flag
and it's because these texts are sequestered and because up to this point no one thought it was
necessary to do all that extra work to understand the classical world the world where Christianity
was born you want to know about somebody you can learn from their parents yeah yeah yeah
no i mean that so these were texts that were written read and consumed and found their meaning
in these cultural hubs in the Hellenistic world where Homer was rife there was no avoiding it
you know and so uh it would be kind of like trying to avoid Star Wars today like do you
really know nothing about Star Wars really yeah you know how how alien would you have to be from
our modern western context you know nothing about Star Wars and uh and so there's an absurdity there
and this was so much more important to them than our Star Wars and so that's that's to me a big deal
and so i would i would say that we need to you know what we do with that problem is is another
question but i would put to them this how about let's try and list any group of texts from classical
antiquity the Hellenistic period the Roman period that were not memetic projects
again let's trot out that list let's see it because what classicists are seeing is that this is
commonplace throughout when Josephus wants like i make this this mention in your other video when
Josephus wants to write his history he models it after an already established you know antiquities
of the Romans he's writing antiquities of the Jews and it's it's got some structural kind of
there there's stuff there where he's using that as a scaffolding i've even heard he has Homer
memesis in his own writing of the history so there's yeah and in Homer's I can't remember one of
those but it's clear just to go to the and this goes to the historicity problem in terms of
gospels being handled as histories at all in terms of how they were being received in early
christian communities well almost immediately you get this effort to allegorize and symbolize
and and they're doing that left and in fact so much so that any kind of historical kind of
concern at all is lost all all but lost and so if you want to do the and the only other place we
see that popping up prior to the rise of christianity in in the greco-roman world was in with Homer
and Hesiod the poets the grand figures of that so you find allegorizing of Homer going on left
and right all across the board and so what were they thinking these texts were thank you I hope
you liked my dad Richard Miller in this interview remember to like and subscribe and never forget
we are makes me
