Okay, looks like we're live at myth vision podcast. There was a video that was done by a Christian, I would say apologist. He's he's in the same vein with like Mike Winger and other Christians on the YouTube side.
He's associated with them. I've even seen some common threads between this guy Ruslan KD as his bigger channel goes and then bless God Studios or something.
He seems to have been a hip hop artist, but we're going to ask my guest more details about this gentleman as we dive into a video he did where he brought my vision up, which you're going to see that.
And our guest Brady Goodwin, fanatic, who was a hip hop artist in the Christian scene. And I can't tell you how many things he not only got incorrect, but I would go so far as to say he was dismissive and even triggered by the podcast that we did.
And so we're going to be assessing that today and diving deep. You're going to want to check this out. Make sure you like the video and in the description if you want to see the content that he Ruslan produced and our original videos, you can actually watch the whole thing in context.
That is all there documented for you to see.
Son, do you want to know what the truth is? After this, there's no turning back. You take the blue pill and you wake up in your bed and believe whatever you want to.
You take the red pill and you stay in Wonderland. And I show you just how deep the rabbit hole goes.
Remember, all I'm offering is the truth. Nothing more.
Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh.
Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh.
Number one, being an ex-Christian, I know what it's like to be constantly harassed, especially
if you're outspoken against what you once believed.
And you're going to see something today I hope is unique, especially if you're a Christian
in the scene of Ruslan, Ruslan's channel.
I want to pronounce his name properly since he doesn't even know mine yet he was critiquing
one of my videos.
I absolutely agree with the statement of one of the people in the chat here who said he's
one of the worst apologists on YouTube.
I don't know about that assessment, but this is his personal opinion.
He doesn't come with any facts, just feelings.
Now, you're going to see that if you watch any of this guy's content, it's all about
feelings.
In fact, turn down your intelligence, get ready, dumb yourself down and be prepared to
go with your gut or go with your feelings.
That's what I get from this YouTube channel and I want to defend Brady Goodwin.
The reason is he has caught a lot of crap since de-converting from Christianity.
Christians love harping on it because he was in the hip hop scene.
And to be honest with you, I don't think the facts are on the Christian side when it comes
to this issue.
So I want to defend my friend and we have Brady Goodwin joining us today.
How are you brother?
I'm excellent, man.
Excellent.
Thank you for welcoming me back on your channel.
It's great to be back and yeah, let's get into it.
Yeah.
You know what?
You're super theological, man.
Heavy on that theology side and wanting to know what's really going on and what the true
understanding is and stuff.
And you're at fault for that.
You shouldn't have been so...
Yeah.
Yeah.
I think my biggest problem is not accepting the presupposition.
If the Bible is God's word, then anything it says must be true.
And so for me to question that first part, you know, that puts me in the camp of, you
know, I'm not to be believed anymore.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Or if anything can be the reason.
For me, it's always that, well, the drugs, I get that a lot or you just want to send
that happens.
Not all Christians think this way and there are variations of good Christians I love talking
with and learning from, but then you got those who are obviously not in this in terms
of a pursuit of knowledge and understanding of the world around us.
They want to believe what feels good to them.
A message that seems to be true based on their experience and their feelings.
And the funny thing is if we put our feelings next to each other on how we experience the
world, we probably have a lot of overlap.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
This makes sense to me.
This feels good to me.
So it's not like people like you and I don't have things that, oh, my gut tells me, but
our gut is based on something a little bit more, we would say a little more substantive
than just the feeling itself.
So yeah.
Yeah.
Feelings are not to be excused or dismissed.
It's just to me, not the base of what we think is true.
Well, just so people know, we're trying to hit that thousand subs for your channel here.
We just started.
Yeah.
And I want to refresh this towards the end.
So we got 724.
Before we started the live, I hope we can bump those numbers up.
These are rookie numbers.
We got to get those numbers up, Wolf of Wall Street, like last night.
Seriously, we got to get you to 1K.
You've been talking to a Christian who de-converted, then reconverted.
And that was quite an interesting discussion, or I didn't watch the whole thing.
I watched some of it.
And then I was like, you know what, we put this on the back burner because I was gone
on a trip recently for those who don't know MVP courses.
I've got courses, lectures by experts, not, you know, people who just pop on YouTube and
give you their thoughts of what they think.
These are experts in the field who actually specialize on the material.
And I've got some courses coming out with all sorts of scholars that you're going to
need to check out.
So that link is in the description.
We also have the Patreon.
You can come support us on the Patreon and check us out, join the community if you like
what you're hearing.
I also ask questions of those who join us on Patreon to scholars when I have those academics
either come to me or I go to them to record and we have the time.
The only problem with the recent one with Robin Faith Walsh was I didn't have time to
get questions.
We had a very limited amount of time.
So most of the time I have questions that I get from our supporters.
So we'll be refreshing this and checking out the subscriber count at the end.
You also have let there be gaslight.
Before we even dive into the review, what's up with the book and what have been the responses
from Christians?
Oh, it's been crazy, man, you know, I wrote this book in 2021 to 2022.
It was after six years of doubt and depression because I knew I couldn't believe anymore,
but I couldn't articulate why.
So after six years of battling with all that, I said, wait, I need to go and do the research
and put this into words.
That's what this book is why I no longer believe the Bible to be the word of God, mankind
to be, you know, have come from Adam and Eve and born in sin and meeting of a savior.
So I go through, I just go through what I was taught, what I had always believed, what
I got in seminary, what the Christians are saying about the current science, what they're
saying about the current state of ancient Near Eastern literature and how we understand
the Bible in light of that.
I go through all that and I just kind of hit the equal sign because to me, I hear what
a lot of Christians are saying.
And when I hit the equal sign, I don't get what a lot of them get.
And I think a lot of them get that because of cognitive dissonance.
And so the response has been very mixed.
I have Christians who are up in arms and angry and people who have done, as one guy who's
done about 16 different videos addressing trying to take it down.
And I don't know if I should announce this, but Oz, who's part of the online atheist community,
I just found out from him and got it confirmed from the actual theologian, he's a good friend
of yours, not theologian, the counter-apologist, who's a good friend of yours, who's actually
going to do a review of a book from somebody who tried to review my book.
And it's going to be very, very interesting.
I can't speak more, Oz has to speak more, but there'll be some fireworks in a little
bit.
Yeah, they're trying to take the book down.
They don't want, one of my good friends said, they're trying to stop the bleeding.
They're trying to put a tourniquet on.
And so some of these counter-apologists are just rushing to dismiss the book.
They're not even reading the whole thing.
Many of them are good friends of mine who was asked to review a chapter, didn't even
read the entire book, just read the chapter.
And so in doing that, they missed a good portion of my argument.
So there's people on that side.
But then on the flip side, I have people every day, from country, from Canada to England
to the States, emailing me, texting me, saying, hey, I was on the fence, I read your book,
it sealed the deal for me, I reconverted.
And I have interviews with some of them.
Some of them, I don't want to show their face yet because they're not ready to come out.
I was like, no, show my face.
So yeah, the response has been mixed.
If you are, if you're already, like, pre-committed to, there's nothing that's ever going to get
me to question the Bible, you'll read my book and you'll have a million reasons to say,
well, I don't believe he, I don't believe that, how he's off here, he's off.
If you really are questioning things and looking for what, what could possibly explain this
phenomenon we see in the scripture, the book I think is going to be a breath of fresh air
for you.
So yeah, the response has been mixed.
Yeah, of course, it's going to be mixed.
It doesn't matter what you say.
It doesn't matter what evidence you bring up a lot of times, it's the, we're tapping
into that feelings.
Okay.
Again, it's, there's a special pleading that takes place often with Christians wanting
that, you know, to hold onto that.
And it's not all Christians.
I know some man that go along even saying, yeah, New Testament's loaded with legend.
And I'm like, I don't understand it.
But mad respect for being real about what's going on here.
Exactly.
Exactly.
Yeah.
It just shows such either ignorance or dishonesty or, or, or cognitive dissonance
playing in.
You see, so.
Yeah, exactly.
And so this is something that as we review the video today, you're going to pay attention
to it's not a long video, but I do want to address this is something that hit my radar.
Someone said, Hey, have you responded or have you seen this video?
And I'm like, I heard about this guy Ruslan and I was like, okay, I'm going to, I'm going
to subscribe.
I had subscribed to his YouTube channel.
The big channel he has, let me play, let me pop this up real quick.
First thing first, this is the video you and I did two hours, 15 minute video.
You really, if you haven't seen this, I swear you need to watch this video.
It's really, really good.
That's in the description too.
So check that out.
Also, we got his YouTube channel, right?
So Ruslan, the guy who did the response, this is his YouTube channel.
He's a Christian.
He goes out of his way.
And he pretty much tries to preach Christ almost anywhere.
He is aiming for the upper echelon of views and subscribers.
Everybody wants to aim and grow.
But pretty much the way I viewed this channel was like, I would say it's like a mixture
between drama and like pop level, like if they are Hollywood or big, like he's trying
to aim for like big people, celebrity status type stuff.
It's very click baity.
Yeah.
Like that's the vibe that I got when I, when I visited, yeah.
And look, I can't, I mean, look, that's his game, right?
But, but you brought up my name.
So you know, he didn't bring up my name.
He didn't even get my name right, which we're going to show that, but you know, did have
you and me and what I found interesting in his response video, which we're going to play
here soon.
This is the one fanatic shipwrecks faith because of this.
I, I don't know at the end, maybe people can address, but it sounds like he's talking
and addressing me more than he addresses you.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And, and the things he said about me, I mean, I've got a book, I've got my podcast, so I
could address all that.
It seems like the things he said about you, that was, that was a little more like, how
could you take that out of context?
Like that's probably like, don't do that.
That's just like, that's not in good faith to take what, what Derek was saying there
and then turn it into what he turned it into.
So yeah, I think he, but, but even with some of my comments, I'm like, wait, you turned
it into that.
So it was a little unfortunate the way that he, he, he chose to move on that one.
I don't, it doesn't hurt my feelings, you know, because I understand.
I will say up front, if Ruslan is watching or decides to watch this or someone who
watches him gives him this, this is an invitation.
Either I am willing to come and join you for a discussion or you can come and join
me.
Let's have a grown up friendly dialogue discussion so you can actually
understand where I'm coming from and why this invitation may be rejected or you
may ignore this.
That's totally fine, but I am open to talking to people.
I'm not a debater.
It's not my goal to win.
I really want you to understand where I'm coming from.
You could think I'm wrong at the end of the day, but I really do think those are
the best ways to create unity across these different tribal distinctions of where
we land on what we believe.
And so this is my invitation to you either join me on myth vision or I'll come
and join you for a discussion on your channel.
Either way, um, did you want to say anything on that before we start?
Uh, nope, it's not in.
All right, let's do it.
So, all right, here we go.
I'm going to go ahead and.
Oh, you know what?
I will say one thing, just, you know, I always like to, to extend, you know,
just like you extended little olive branch.
There are things that I've appreciated about Ruslan.
The one thing I could say is the first time that I actually saw him, uh, on social
media, he was on a very popular podcast recently, uh, a guy who's an atheist.
I think Ruslan, you know, like you talked about, he kind of, he grabs for
these big names and I guess, you know, the rising tide lifts his ship as well.
But he did a response video to somebody with a pretty big name, uh, atheist guy,
uh, who's got a pretty popular podcast.
And that guy actually bought Ruslan on to talk about this, uh, talk about, you
know, Ruslan's critique.
And in the first couple of minutes of Ruslan's critique, the very first thing
he did was he did a pretty good takedown of presuppositional apologetics.
I was like, oh, that's, that's refreshing to hear a Christian sort of expose
the, the faults of presuppositional apologetics.
I hardly ever curse.
Um, but one of the main things that gets me to curse these days is
somebody trying to use presuppositional apologetics.
And so I appreciate it.
Yeah.
I appreciated that from Ruslan.
Since then he has come, I had to block him actually, uh, just before it's so
funny, you hit me up about 10 minutes after I had just blocked Ruslan on Facebook
because he did some real cornball stuff on my Facebook page.
Um, popping on saying things that if I was a different type of dude, it could
have went a different way.
I said, let me just block him now before it gets crazy.
But, um, yeah, I would love to be able to appreciate and respect him.
And like you said, have grown up conversations.
Yeah.
Um, cause I do think, you know, the way he came on that podcast I was just
talking about showed me that he's, he's trying to think through some things.
I mean, look, I just don't think he fairly, uh, being straight up real with you.
I don't, I don't think he was being fair or honest with what we were discussing.
And you can be thinking we're wrong and that's fine.
In fact, Spartan right here, right?
So buddy of mine, Christian, uh, Spartan, I believe he's a universalist or at least
he in some way finds that plausible proposition says Ruslan comes off as
reasonable at first, but if you actually watch his stuff, you realize it's all
feels and no facts and pretty dishonest.
So I, I think there's a sense in which I came from that kind of place and became
more Calvinistic and reform, trying to understand the text and be systematically
since you have in a hormone, a harmonious idea of the Bible as a unified
text that God guided and like helped, right?
So I tried to systematically make sense of the biblical text.
And if you're going to do this seriously, this is the problem.
Just stay in your feels, but don't pretend like you want to go over to the
real side of like, what is really going on, stay in your lane, talk about the
mushy gushy, talk about Lady Gaga and deal with the popular stuff and all that.
Just remain in your lane.
You start entering actual scholarship.
You start talking about the theology and dive in deep into this material.
You're in our territory now.
And if you're in our territory, the engagement's going to happen and we're
going to spit what we honestly find as the evidence.
So if you're not about that heavy lifting, don't do it.
That's it.
If you're about that heavy lifting, then get ready because we're going to dive
in and we've got experts who are looking into this material, who are actually
writing books, combating all of your apologists, every single one of them,
from the microconas to the Gary Habermas's, to the, you can bring your
heaviest hitters, and I've got 10 more heavy hitters that are coming in to show
you and they're saying, no, I don't believe in Osiris.
Like I don't believe in Jesus.
Like I don't believe in Romulus.
Like I'm not, I'm not buying this.
So, you know, let's be fair and say, Hey, I like the tradition or I, I, I like
this idea, this something about it.
Don't, don't act like you're going to enter into the field and get serious,
but it doesn't seem like he completely is going that direction because in his
video, he wants you to turn down that theology.
He wants you to kind of tone down that thinking too heavy about biblical material.
And what you're going to see is he's also going to highlight just in case he
would want to go into that, those deep waters.
He's going to highlight people that he thinks because we've got people like this.
If you want to go into the deep waters, debate this guy and we're sitting here
like debate him, like what would that do?
He's, he's just a, he's a more studied you and that's not saying, that's not
saying as much as you think it is.
And I don't want to trash talk.
I'm seriously not trying to trash talk.
I really think that there's, I don't know Ruslan, but I, I've seen Michael,
Michael Brown.
We're going to bring that up as well.
I think he's probably a wonderful human being who suffered from addiction and
just chaos in his life.
And then he had this transformation that he wants to attribute to the divine and
say it was Jesus.
I had a transformation too.
And in that transfer, I've had many transformations, but at the end, I had
a transformation in a deconversion route that brought me peace, serenity, and
happiness in my life, unlike the religion has in the past.
So, um, we can put fields and a connect them to whatever I could sit here and
say, it was atheism is the wild, but I don't even say that.
I just, I think it helped me to let go of some of these ideas for sure.
Anyway, Scott Duke did super chat us real quick before we started.
Maybe we should run commercials for Brady's book with the tagline, he gas
lights us after the manner of those, he gets us commercials.
Yeah.
That's a good one, Scott.
Wow.
Excellent.
That's a goodie.
All right.
All right.
Here we go.
So, um, I'm going to just play and then you just let me know when you're
ready to pause and comment.
How's that sound?
Yep.
All right.
Let me know if you hear this.
All right.
Ladies and gentlemen, one of my, uh, favorite theological Christian hip hop
artist was a part of a collective called the cross movement.
His name is fanatic and cross movement.
So, so there's a compliment.
Respect.
Okay.
Okay.
There's a compliment at least, you know, coming out with something positive,
right?
At least that may be the one positive thing he said about me in this entire
video, but only you.
When you were that fanatic, not, not now.
So, okay.
Generally made.
How did Dr.
Eric Mason tell me to describe it?
Theologically lofty music.
Okay.
They weren't all Calvinist.
I misspoke when I said that in the video.
Um, were you a Calvinist?
No.
So the interesting thing about, you know, so people who, who know how this
whole thing goes, I saw legitimacy in both the Calvinist arguments and the
Armenian arguments.
There were parts of scripture that Calvinist played, paid attention to
like predestination and that the Armenians didn't have a good response for,
but then there were other parts about free will that many has paid attention to
that Calvinist, you know, tried to steam roll over.
And so I tried to be as biblical as possible.
I saw both.
So, uh, yeah, not everybody in my crew was, was, uh, five point Calvinist.
Cause we would say we were three or four point, some of us, uh, at times.
Yeah.
You got to keep that universal atonement there.
I'm sure you get it.
You couldn't, you couldn't go with the L does all mean all in, you know, uh, you
know, John three 16 that whoever, does it mean whosoever?
Or is it just mean whosoever God enables?
You know, there's that, that kind of stuff.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And it's funny cause you both are in there.
This is the interesting thing.
Um, so how do you reconcile?
I, if you're systematic and you're a biblical assist, you're screwed.
If you think this is, uh, God's trying to tell you this one message.
Trying to be this thing.
But they were theologically lofty and he says that a lot, like the, in their
content, like theologically lofty and weighty and you were, you were, well,
sometimes you don't know if that's a compliment or if that's a disc, because
if you're theologically lofty and people agree with you, it's a good thing.
But the second you're theological loftiness puts you in a camp that
somebody would not agree with.
Now it's a problem.
You're letting your intellect, um, you know, Rob, you have your faith or
whatever the case may be.
Wow.
Thanks for that.
Super chat.
Greg says celebrating 40 years since I got out of the Navy off subs E M S S new.
So I guess he was in a sub, like nuclear submarines and stuff.
No more 50 hour work days.
Thank you for that support.
Greg, I really appreciate that support.
Seriously.
And Spartan says, yeah, all means all universalism.
I love Spartan Spartans.
Hilarious.
All right.
Just let me know when to pause unless I see some and you don't have
anything of their content and they ended up blazing an entire movement.
And they actually signed the cray early on.
He did his first two albums.
Then he pivoted to rebel.
And it was kind of like this reformed and restless surge that, uh, Christian
hip-hop sick over and the fanatic was not necessarily a part of that.
As far as I know, I don't know where he was theologically, but it was
you nodded your head.
Yeah, I wasn't, he's right about that.
I wasn't part of the reformed and restless, uh, around the time that that
started happening is somewhere around the time that I was, I started going
through my, I'm beginning to doubt.
So I kind of was bowing out of the Christian hip-hop conversations and the
Christian world just slowly, you know, exiting stage left.
Got it.
Got it.
High emphasis on theology.
He went to seminary on, uh, taking the Bible as literally as possible on
presuppositional, that's a, that's an interesting phrase.
I don't know, taking the Bible as literal as possible.
Yeah.
So I think he may have a point there because it wasn't until I started
deconverting that I realized how, um, how fundamentalist my, my Christianity
was, uh, one of the guys in my rap group ambassador, he had a line of one of
the songs who said, um, God's hand is on the cross movement.
We're doing, it's going to bug you out there.
Like hear this in a rap song, like people rap like this, but he said, God's
hand is on the cross movement.
We're doing the work that evangelical fundamentalists who get into this.
Jesus Christ, the magnificent.
And so he put those words in one of his early rap songs, the album called
Christology back in 1999, evangelical fundamentalists.
And even back at that time, I don't even, I didn't know what that was.
Right.
I didn't know that there was, you know, it wasn't until I got
the seminary and I read, um, I think it was Machen's book on, uh, Christianity
and liberalism that I started realizing that there was such a thing as this
sharp divide between fundamentalism and liberalism.
And I ran to the fundamentalist side cause I'm like, well, at least that's
where the safety is, right?
The second you start getting liberal, you don't get on that slippery slope.
You don't know when you're really going to end up and Ruslan takes great pride
in it's so funny.
I feel like a lot of people who start realizing that you can't take the Bible
literally when it says this or now we know better than to take it literally
when it says that he said this in this video that, you know, he says, yeah, we
got on that, you know, years ago, we understood that.
Yeah.
So I'm not going to spill the beans down, but just that idea of because we got
off of fundamentalism where we're somehow theologically or spiritually better
than those who were still on it.
The issue I have with that though is you want all the benefits of not being
a fundamentalist intellectually, but you also still want the spiritual or
theological benefits of still having the same kind of God that did those
fundamentalist things like a God who split the Red Sea, a God who literally
spoke and created the world, a God who, all the things that things, the
fundamentalists say, yeah, that literally happened.
You say, no, not literally, but you still want a God that's strong enough to
do all that.
So you kind of want to have your cake and eat it too.
Yeah.
It's kind of weird.
Like, uh, did I think the flood happened?
Do you think, uh, yeah, where do you draw the line?
Did Noah, you know, did, uh, you know, Jonah, I mean, what, where do you,
where do you stop on this?
Didn't literally happen.
And, um, yeah, it's, it's, I mean, obviously I don't think it happened.
Right.
But yeah.
So like I did when I was a Christian and I caught myself one time driving in my car.
I don't know.
I was on my high horse, just excited about the Lord.
And I remember saying to myself, I whipped out my camera, I was excited about the
Lord.
And I said, like, if the word of God said that Jonah swallowed a well,
right?
Instead of the vice versa, you would believe it because it's the word of God.
Right.
I believed in the word of God.
And, and you know what, when you're combating the more liberal types and what
nine you're being like a word of God, no matter what thing, um, in your mind, you
think as a fundamentalist, you think like, no, like I got God on my side.
Like this whole, like, let me make sure that this doesn't look, uh, let me make
sure I don't look like I'm believing in stupid stuff here.
No, it's God's word, bro.
Like, you know, so yes, there was that sense.
So let's continue because he's actually going to point out some things where he
is almost saying we're still fundamentalist and we're going to actually address this.
Yeah.
All the genetics on creations, the creation story being literal, yada, yada.
Well, recently the fanatic, D converted from the faith.
He wrote a whole book about it.
Uh, Dr.
Michael Brown challenged him to a debate, doesn't want the smoke.
That's neither here nor there, but there was this interesting
conversation that he, dude, can I rephrase what he said real quick?
Yes.
He doesn't want the psychoanalyzing, analyzing emotional abuse that comes
with the debate with Michael Brown.
Put it that way.
And, and, and once again, to be fair to Dr.
Michael Brown, it's not that he's, he would be abusive or he would be any of that.
I had a discussion with Dr.
Michael Brown that the week I put my deconversion video out, we spoke privately
on a zoom, he was gracious.
It was almost exactly the same conversation he had with, um, uh, Dr.
Joshua Bowen, we had Dr.
Joshua Bowen on his show.
Um, I laid out my issues and Dr.
Brown didn't address any of them.
Um, he went to, you know, his childlike faith, his experiences.
Yep.
And Dr.
Brown went online and he actually told people we need to allow Brady to let him,
you know, let, let Brady ask his questions.
I don't believe it's anything different.
I don't believe he's in some secret sin.
I don't believe he's, it's no other reason why he deconverted.
It's the reasons he said that's, that's what I, you know, that's, that's what I think.
Then he said, let's just pray that Brady has an experience of God that will
convince him more than these, you know, uh, theological issues have, have unconvinced
him.
And to me, I'm like, once someone begins to do that, what are we debating about?
Because now you're not talking about the text anymore.
You're talking about your experience.
So yeah, it's not that I don't want the smoke.
I know where that conversation goes because Dr.
Michael Brown also in an interview with vocab Malone talking about my book.
I've said this several times.
So sorry if I'm
No, no, please, please.
Michael Brown is almost like vocab Malone bought up.
Like Brady doesn't think this is literal to this is little and Dr.
Brown didn't say, well, of course it's literal.
He, he basically said, well, no, I, I think we could take it a different,
maybe the Bible is trying to do something else, which is the point that I'm
making, it's, it can't be literal.
Right.
So I think people who want to see that debate would be disappointed because
for like Dr.
Michael Brown would actually say, no, you're right, Brady.
It's not literal.
It means something else, but that doesn't mean we can't still believe it.
That's why we'll have an issue with them.
Not in the, does it mean something else?
I was thinking the way that the discussion went with him and Joshua Bowen, and
it got really emotional is that he, he's about those feelings so much.
That it almost feels kind of PTSD.
You know, I'll tell you, I'll give you an example.
Um, I was at a wedding where one of my best friends growing up, Jose Mahono, uh,
big into jujitsu, man, we did it all hand to hand combat.
Like we were military kids.
Me and his dad worked with my dad and the special forces.
So green berets, you know what I'm saying?
We're hardcore and all that.
Well, he's getting married.
So me and my brother, we go to the wedding.
His dad is like a devout born again Christian.
And I mean, he really believes like I once did.
And I think his son has mentioned myth vision.
Uh, he's mentioned my deconversion or at least been telling him Derek doesn't
believe in God anymore and he's not a Christian anymore.
Well, he came up to me and rather than, you know, like, I wouldn't even want him
to challenge this because I'd rather just not talk about it with people that I
love, especially not at a wedding.
He comes up and this is the appeal that I get from like Michael Brown and what
I meant by kind of harassing you psychologically in a way is that he came
up with this wallet out and he says, you see this right here?
That's Isaiah 61.
I can't remember the passage specifically.
You know, the passage where he talks about, I have good things in store for you.
I, I, I have, I want good for you.
I want this and that.
And he's like, Derek, you know what you need to do.
You know, you need to come back now.
Do it.
Okay.
And he's like already telling me what I know I need to do.
There isn't a discussion.
It's a simple emotional attack.
And if Michael Brown would listen to this, if you're listening, Dr.
Brown, that tactic, it's like, if I reversed it and go, now, you know, you
have no way to prove that this resurrection actually happened and cut it
out, stop believing it really did.
Just call it an allegory.
We know in our heart of hearts, you can't prove that.
That kind of stuff.
And you wouldn't say Romulus had an ascension, sir.
You wouldn't say that Osiris actually was resurrected into the, to the other realm.
You wouldn't believe in those things.
Listen, it's your culture, but stop, you know the truth.
I mean, like, that's like psychally, like trying to manipulate.
And that's how I felt the conversation happened to Dr.
Bowen.
Yeah.
So I'm actually, uh, yeah, I'm looking forward to having Dr.
Bowen on my, on my channel very soon.
Cause I feel like I want to, I want to, I would love him to address how he
looks back at that conversation now.
Yeah.
Yeah, I would love to, I mean, look, I'm, I used to listen.
I read his book, Jay, on the brother of Jesus, James.
I read his book back in the day.
I didn't read too many of his books, but I read, I read his book there and he
always had the same kind of feels Christianity that I deep down did have.
It's hard for me to relate to someone who tries to say it's purely the
historical research.
It's purely the intellectual grounds for which I'm a Christian and I'm
convinced based on that, I have a hard time knowing it's not my experience.
So I grant people have different kinds of experiences, but I'm wondering if
they're not even aware that they're built in with some type of.
Emotional connection to it.
So all right.
Yep.
Continuing.
Yes.
He had with a podcast called my vision podcast.
And this is kind of like, that's your new name now.
My vision podcast, my vision podcast.
Yeah, I just, I thought it was funny.
I mean, he must have forgotten the myth part, but you know, it's our, it's
our conversion, deconstructionist corner for a bunch of people that left the
faith and they're talking about this comment.
It's two and a half hour, two, two hour and 15 minute conversation.
I listened to the whole thing, thinking I was going to be challenged in my faith.
Somehow I was going to see something or hear something like, Oh, I never thought
about this as a reason to not be a Christian.
Heard nothing.
Same old iPhone or iPad is disabled.
We're paying you Ruslan.
We're paying you on a big deal.
Try 10 or washed up type of thinking.
If anything washed up type of thinking.
So, so should I, should I play it back like 10 seconds and let it ride?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Cause this is an important part.
I think it's somehow I was going to see something or hear something like, Oh,
I never thought about this as a reason to not be a Christian.
Heard nothing.
Same old washed up type of thinking.
If anything, I walk away listening, consuming this sort of stuff.
Uh, very invigorated and inspired by my faith, but there was this one.
Do you, it gets juicy.
I'm going to observe my comments cause it gets juicier.
Yeah.
I don't want to, I mean, I can't read his brain, but dude, I, if you research
cognitive dissonance, okay.
If you hear arguments that are so conflicting and controversial to your
particular position, oftentimes what'll happen is either you want to
renegotiate what that is, or you double down deeper and it sounds like he
literally is granting that, um, definition by saying, Oh, I came out
even more invigorated, even more.
I'm sure you did buddy.
It's for people watching.
I hope you realize what Derek just said.
It's a defense mechanism.
It's a self-preservation.
Like you, you, you digging your nails in deeper and grabbing on tighter.
You, you report it as if it's a good thing when it could really just be
that rough, that reflex that says, you know, before I lose this, let me
hold on tighter to it.
Um, something to think about there, but I'm going to preserve my comments.
Okay.
Awesome.
I'm going to continue my, my vision is going to continue.
Okay.
A little subtle thing that, uh, the host snuck in that I just found so, so
disingenuous and spoiler alert.
Like he de-converted because he had trouble with the old Testament genesis,
literal account of, of creation.
In my opinion, like there's so many different views on the creation story
from all kinds of different perspectives.
And Dr.
Michael Brown did a video, uh, on a vocal Malone's channel, debunking
straight from his book offered to debate him.
I don't think he wants to debate him.
Uh, okay.
So pause real quick.
I know you have stuff to say.
Um, I, uh, specifically, what did he say before that?
I almost want to go back a second here.
Asian story from, oh, he said that, uh, host was being disingenuous.
Then he goes to Genesis, right?
So it was actually your particular story.
I'm not going to say that Genesis stuff didn't play a part in leading me in
the direction of the conversion, but it wasn't that.
So I think that he's conflating yours and mine, but maybe he's
clipping this from a live stream he did or something.
I don't really know.
So going back.
Oh, so maybe, yeah, maybe I was trying to figure out what happened there
because when I, when I watched it originally, I don't remember it happening
that way.
So maybe, um, yeah, but yeah, he did go from the you being disingenuous.
We're going to get into that to deconverting because of Genesis and all that.
And I'll just say now.
He talks about me deconverting because of Genesis.
Uh, in the same way he just said, there are so many different
interpretations of Genesis, uh, another apologist or Old Testament scholar.
I forget which one he was.
He said, if you were to ask the, uh, the, all the interpretations of Genesis,
like what's your name, they would say we are Legion, right?
We are many, which is, which is a weird, you know, analogy, because in the
New Testament, that's a demon, many demons says we are Legion.
Um, but in the same way, my reasons for deconverting are Legion.
So it's not just Genesis three.
Someone's going to take that run.
Yeah, it's not just Genesis three.
That's what started, uh, my, my pack, but my reasons are Legion.
So I don't want him to mischaracterize my, my leave in the faith as because of that.
Yeah.
For sure.
Digital homerabi, Dr.
Josh, is it Oh Lord or zero Lord?
I think he's asking for a friend.
Oh, so I could probably, can I let the cat out the bag?
Dr. Josh, uh, is he in the chat?
Can I think he's in the chat?
Uh, I can't see.
Oh, wait, I got a switch over to comments.
Dr. Josh type.
If I can, if I can say what's going to happen pretty soon, if I can let the
cat out the back, I can't see the comments.
See, go for it.
Oh, here we go.
Okay.
So there's a, there's a Christian who I had to block.
He, he's on my Facebook page.
Uh, I think his name is Daniels author Daniels or something like that.
Uh, he goes by C road warrior and he was like just trolling pretty hard on my
Facebook page.
I was actually looking forward to having a good discussion slash debate with him
because he is a very, uh, literalists, fundamentalists, going to justify the
Bible on those terms.
He just started becoming very abusive in his language to me on Facebook.
And I warned him, Hey, if you keep it up, I'm going to block you kept it up.
I blocked him.
So now he's on my YouTube channel.
Same type of stuff.
I haven't blocked them on there yet.
Cause we, you know, maybe we're trying to, he's done 16 individual videos about
my book from a very fundamentalist, uh, point of view.
He also has done an interview of my book on Amazon.
His, um, his review, I'm sorry, of my book on Amazon, his review is probably the
number one review on my books page.
And it's a very negative review.
So if you really want to help out, read my book, go and review it on
Amazon to kind of counterbalance that, but all the Christians love his review
because he just, this is my book anyway, all that to say, uh, so Oz, uh, from the
atheist network group, Tang Oz get did a response to see real warriors review
of my book, just basically kind of coming at him and then asked Dr.
Joshua Bowen, like, Hey, would you read Sea Road Warriors book?
Okay.
So you see the way the face just made cause Derek knows.
I already know.
I said, can you see, can you, can you read and review Sea Road Warriors book?
And Dr.
Joshua has been, I mean, this man's time is so valuable.
I told Dr.
Josh, I hate that you aren't even doing this because your time is so valuable.
Why waste it on this guy?
But since this guy's made me such a part, like he's fixated on me.
Yeah.
All these videos he's done.
So Dr.
Josh is going to review this guy's book and, uh, Dr.
Josh is the author of the atheist handbook, um, to the Old Testament.
It's not going to go well.
I don't think for Sea Road Warrior, uh, and I'm looking forward to that.
So can't wait.
Can't wait.
All right.
I'm going to keep going.
Just let me know all kinds of different perspectives and Dr.
Michael Brown did a video, uh, on a vocab Malone's channel debunking
straight from his book offered to debate him.
I don't think he wants to debate him.
Um, I would love to see the debate.
I would do everything I can to help facilitate the debate.
I don't, I don't think he really wants to smoke.
And so anyway, what happens with a lot of these folks who
decompert is they go from this very like hands off approach to being just as
dogmatic and zealous and certain about whatever their new ideology is.
Hold on.
Hands off approach.
That's a bit confusing.
They go from hands off approach.
What many Christians want is for, for deconverted Christians to be good atheists,
to be nice atheists.
Don't be, don't be as right.
Yeah.
Don't be as vocal as you were when you were a Christian.
Now, taking a very hands off approach, but he says when you were a Christian,
you weren't hands off.
So why would you be hands off as an atheist?
But yeah, it's like, Hey, look, we get it.
Don't mess up our numbers.
You know, don't, don't just make sure, you know, just go, we'll let you go.
Here's the exit, you know, just be, be quiet about this stuff.
And, uh, but he goes further, I think.
So let's see what he says.
They were usually like this as Christians.
They were very weighty in their theology.
And they were very certain with the things they believed.
And then you pull on one thread and everything kind of falls apart.
That's all I'm curious.
Is he certain with the things he believes?
Right.
He seems fairly certain.
Jesus resurrected from the dead.
And he believes that with, I would say, high confidence and certainty.
I would think, I mean, unless he's this wishy-washy person who doesn't,
but I can't imagine him being that way.
Right.
But look how he, how he characterized it.
They were very certain with the things they believe as if that's not how he is.
Right.
Kind of weird how that works because then he followed up with another
sentence there.
Let's do it about whatever their new ideology is.
They were usually like this as Christians.
They were very weighty in their theology.
And they were very certain with the things they believed.
And then you pull on one thread and everything kind of falls apart.
I, so first off, it's not one thread.
There are several threads.
I mean, we're talking threads that are legion.
Okay.
Um, you know, it's like not one thing.
If it was one thing, cognitive dissonance would have easily explained a way
out of it or around it.
And then when you're sincere, though, you really want to know, you end
up in this situation.
He mentioned weighty theologically, like he's not.
That's where it's like, I think he's trying to separate them.
So I said, look, I'm not going to be too weighty in theology here.
Um, I, I just, you know, I'm just a Christian.
He just believes he rose from the dead.
Well, did he die for everybody or did he die for some?
Um, what kind of atonement model do you hold to?
None of that matters.
You know, I just believe what, I just believe, but I believe with certainty,
but I don't want to get caught up in the details.
Give me a break, man.
Look, my grandpa, my parents, I had an experience or like where, what are you?
What kind of Christian are you?
How serious are you?
If you're literally resting your whole life and soul and everything on this,
as you want to claim your savior is calling you to lay your life down.
Like you, I was in situations where I was literally willing to and put myself
in situations where I could die.
I'm out as a missionary in another country.
And the locals in that country, I say locals, like we're back on some kind,
but the, the people in that country and the neighborhoods that we're going to,
tell us if you come back tomorrow, you're not going to make it home.
And we decide the gospel is so important where we're going back to the place
that they told us not to come back to.
I'll put myself in those situations.
So what's this idea of certainty being some sort of like mark against you?
Like you're not going to die for something you're not certain about.
Hmm.
I find it really ironic because this is a problem with the message in Mark,
specifically the gospel of Mark.
It's such a heavy, the gospel of Mark has Jesus kind of,
it's the messianic secret and William Rodea, a scholar in like 1904,
started to really point this out and the debate happened.
I think one scholar before him had mentioned something like this,
but he really capitalized on it.
And so his name gets attributed with this, this idea.
Jesus continuously hides who he is.
Nobody gets it.
Nobody understands him, not even his own disciples.
Even when Peter, this is the interesting part that a lot of controversy in my
recent Mark course came up when Peter confesses, who do men say that I am?
And he finally says, you're the Christ, meaning the Messiah.
Two verses later, it's still within the context.
Jesus is rebuking Peter saying Satan get behind me.
And Dr.
Table points out in the course, like this is a false confession,
not saying that Jesus isn't the Messiah.
We know that he's the Messiah, according to the text, according to this story.
And I call it a story in Mark, he's the son of God.
But Peter saying he's the son of God.
And then turns around and Jesus says, I am going to die now.
I'm going to my death, meaning what Jesus is actually saying is what makes me the
Messiah, what makes me the son of God is that I'm going to die.
Mm hmm.
That's so radically different than what you expected.
And Peter was like, no, Lord, you must not go die.
He rebukes him because he doesn't understand what he is.
The Messiah is about what the most according to the text, right?
It's a false confession.
So that's just Mark.
We can go to Matthew and next thing you know, he's glorified and they reinterpret.
But that's a whole different discussion of contradictions and issues.
But if you're not willing and open minded, even pay attention to this stuff.
Mark, as you go into your death, take up your cross and follow me.
If you're not reading that and you're not taking it the way that you were in terms
of dangerous situations of trying to get that gospel out there becoming a martyr
similar to what the church has kind of shown that model for.
Are you really a Christian?
Right. I mean, how serious are you about being a Christian?
Yeah. So hopefully he's not.
I mean, he's he's he's sort of saying in a mocking tone, but the certainty
that I had as a Christian and the I'm willing to stick my neck out here
for what I believe when I do convert and I say, yo, I I wasn't.
I wasn't going according to the best evidence.
I wasn't being as critical of the text as I needed to be.
My skeptical powers had not yet been awakened.
But now I for me to be the same way about my hey, I don't think we should be
saying this anymore. I don't think we matter of fact, I think we know some things.
Now we we we literally can't teach that.
What's the problem with being as vocal with being as out there?
I don't understand what that that what the point is that he's making it.
So he continues to, yeah.
See a pattern here personally, and it's going to be exhibited here.
It's one thing to just like drift from the faith and be like, yeah, I don't really know,
man, I haven't gone to church in a while, like trying to figure it out.
It's another thing to be an enemy of the gospel.
It's another thing to be an enemy of the gospel.
Those are the fields, the fields coming in.
Enemy of the gospel.
It's a one thing to just kind of slip, you know, trip and be like, no, I don't really know.
But the question is, does Ruslan really know what you know about this stuff?
Now, has he explored how you find these issues really?
I don't know because he's never called me like I've never met him as far as I know.
Like when I was when I was exiting the Christian rap world,
I think that's kind of around the time he was coming in, or maybe he was there
when I was there, I don't really know.
There was a contingent of people who, in the Christian hip hop, it's such a small market.
There were some people who were there because they could not make it in the secular rap arena.
And I never heard Ruslan's music.
So I didn't know if he was just part of that.
Hey, I can't do the secular thing.
I'm going to do the Christian thing.
Or if he was a really good Christian rap artist, I have no idea.
But I don't think I had any dealings with him back then.
But we've never talked.
So other than my book, he really wouldn't have any way to know, or maybe if he saw things
I was posting on Facebook to know what my reasons were.
But he's, we haven't got to the point yet, but he's going to say something in a minute
that makes it seem like whatever my issues were in his mind, Christians have already
answered that and got over that.
So it should be no big deal.
So I don't, yeah.
All right.
All right.
I'm going to keep rolling, baby.
It's another thing to say, I was so team this, and then you, you know, it's like gang
members who jump to a different set, right?
Like that's the energy that this is on.
And that's to me, I, what if you found out Tookie actually did his homies wrong?
I mean, you know what I'm saying?
Like if you knew he was wrong, would you switch teams?
Well, it's a, you know, he shouldn't, he should just silently walk away.
But also you're using the, you're using the gang member analogy for
us, but who's the one calling someone an enemy?
I've never called anyone of my former Christian brothers an enemy.
I just don't see it the way you see it anymore.
And I speak about that.
And I'm your enemy now.
Who's the one that's popping off some gang type time?
Like, that's you, not me.
Yeah, it's tribalism, but you're an enemy because you see it's not true.
And you speak about where you're not, like it's not true anymore.
You should just be silent, but let them, from the rooftop, shout how true it is
and how, you know, you need to believe, or you're going to go to a hell and
that they're right and everyone else is wrong.
But don't you dare say what they're teaching and preaching is wrong.
You know what I'm saying?
Like, I'll keep going.
I, I, I don't, I don't respect it.
Right.
Especially when you're very vague.
Hey, I don't respect it.
Egg and you tiptoe around the reasons.
And then when we finally get to the reasons, it's like, oh, bro, like, we
didn't settle this a decade ago.
Yep.
What did you settle a decade ago?
A few minutes ago, you just said there, there's all these different
interpretations of Genesis.
So how was that settled?
Yeah, I don't understand.
Yeah.
What did, what did you settle a decade ago?
Please give me a list of your settled Christian issues.
That would be great.
What things have been settled?
I would love to see that.
I would too, but I think he's saying it almost in a sense like, hey, Christian
watching, don't be disturbed.
Don't let this get under your skin.
Look, don't, we, we're right.
We've been right.
And the funny thing is we got scholars like Delcey Allison, junior Christian
scholar, right, right, real academics.
Okay.
I disagree with him on some stuff, but whoop, they do, right?
I'm, I'm reading all these other academics, including him.
I love his work.
He points out when I ask him about this whole harmonizing and the
gospels don't contradict and like, what do you do about people who are trying
to reconcile the gospel material and stuff?
And he was like, since like David Friedrich Strauss, like since the early
19th century and like, like it's been 200, 300 years, that's already been put to
rest, meaning people who are still trying to reconcile contradictions and make
the gospels not have these problems.
They're in like this small little bubble of protection of their religion.
They're doing, they're literally doing fire control.
What do you call that?
Where you're trying to like put out the fire.
Um, and it's been dead in scholarship for centuries that you're trying to
harmonize all of this stuff and make it work.
And even models, different models of it are starting to try and come up like,
it's not a new idea, but there was one scholar that like Lydia and Tim McGrew,
right?
These particular, what we call the, a lot of people call them
apologists, they want to argue undesigned coincidences to try and explain.
Connections between the gospels.
And, and it's like, well, hold on for me.
The simple solution is Matthew and Luke, no mark.
So if I know, and I'm acquainted with this previous story, it's really easy to
add details that are relevant to the previous one you just read and that
you're responding or even overriding any who, um, like this can go on forever,
but like the settled issues aren't settled.
More Christians who are honest in their research are starting to become more
liberal.
They're getting more liberal.
They realize, all right, an errand seed just doesn't work anymore.
Okay.
Okay.
We've got to stop all the really taking this too seriously on some of these things.
Yeah.
All right.
I'll continue.
I didn't know if you wanted to comment on that, but no, okay.
You just were in your own little bubble of your own little, you know,
institutions that like you didn't open up to anybody else.
And by the time you did, you thought they were too liberal and then you checked
out, that's my assessment of this overall podcast.
Now let's jump into this clip because I found this, this clip extremely interesting.
I wholeheartedly believe this.
We're carrying God, we're carrying this ancient, I believe God is an ancient
hypothesis.
I believe at one time God was the best hypothesis that they could come up with.
I still would not say though God out as a hypothesis, right?
It's a hypothesis at best, but at some point I just said, you know what?
I'm not going to carry this anymore.
If God, if God lives, if God speaks,
He moves a lot, bro.
I don't want to be like, I don't want to be a behavior analyst, but like,
bro, look at him in the, I don't know anyone who's a professional analyst.
Maybe he, maybe his butt was hurting him at that.
Yeah.
It might just have an uncomfortable chair, but that guy speaking, that guy in the
middle that speaking, he's pretty smart.
I like that guy.
I like that guy.
He really is.
Look at his face on the right right now.
He's like, come on, man.
I still would not say though God out as a hypothesis, right?
It's a hypothesis at best, but at some point I just said, you know what?
I'm not going to carry this anymore.
If God, if God lives, if God speaks, he should be God enough to do it.
He did the whole Jesus predicting his death and resurrecting and then
leaving behind reliable and new Testament documents.
He did, he did just that.
He did.
Oh my gosh, just that he did just that.
He did that, right?
Like he almost looks over to his guy.
Like on the left, he did just that, right?
Like we're on the same page, right?
Like, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Let's keep saying it so that it becomes true and then we can convince
ourselves that this is the reality.
Sure.
Dying and rising and leaving behind trustworthy, new Testament documents.
He did that.
Yeah.
He preserved quite a bit of other documents as well.
And, uh, yeah.
I mean, I, I, it makes me think of like the recent book I told you
before we started Richard C.
Miller's book, um, resurrection and reception and early Christianity.
What he does is he shows how the earliest church fathers like Justin
martyr, these apologists were arguing for Christianity.
They weren't taking, they weren't arguing historical argumentations
about Jesus' resurrection.
They weren't making those weighty later arguments to try and make this
convincing historically true.
In fact, he's comparing Christianity and Jesus to these sons of Zeus
and other figures to say, we believe nothing different than what you guys do.
So it is really interesting when you read the book, because then he goes
through the whole Greco-Roman world, eyewitness testimonies, literally
missing body tropes, empty tomb, like you believe you're empty tomb.
All these other people believed in the apotheosis and the, in the absence
of bodies that go into rivers or caves or in tombs or even in fires or
whatever it might be, or during battle, they go missing.
And next thing you know, guess what?
Eyewitnesses say they saw that deified person.
They saw them on the road on, I can't remember the name of the
particular Roman road, but like there are witnesses and this is documented.
And it's in literature.
It's why aren't they trustworthy?
Why aren't they just as trustworthy as the New Testament documents?
Because you don't, you don't believe it.
Right.
Right.
Uh, and then when you start talking about how trustworthy are the documents,
like when were they written, who were they written by?
I don't know why.
Like as a Christian, why, if you are still a Christian, why does it not
trouble you, trouble you that you don't know who wrote these books, um, or
when they were written.
And someone says, well, you don't know who, uh, wrote, uh, you don't know
if, if Homer really wrote the Iliad.
You don't know who.
Yeah, but Homer's not calling me to give my life up for a savior or to, you
know, there are no supernatural claims being made about what I should
now do and believe my, uh, my litmus test for whether or not I'm going to
hold to these documents as much higher for quote unquote, these trustworthy
New Testament texts, uh, than, than something else written around the same
time, supposedly, um, yeah, that's that statement is just so mind boggling to me.
Seems kind of clear to me that yeah, he's like typical, you know, people
within the faith.
This is the book.
If you're really wanting to get a deep dive and the sources chapter two, I
wish I could show you, let's see if chapter two is up here.
Chapter two is just literally endless accounts of missing bodies from
people who become gods.
They literally become gods cause they ascend into heaven.
And Jesus ascends into heaven, the bibliographies, everything, man,
everything is so well documented.
There's not a single sentence in here that's not dense.
So get ready to look up words and in the, in the dictionary and stuff.
This is extremely weighty.
Okay.
Getting into his terminology, this is weighty concrete material on
understanding how this worked within the Mediterranean world.
And Christianity came out of that world.
It, it literally was birthed in a Greco-Roman world, Hellenistic, Greco-Roman
world with the Hellenistic Judaism, all of that.
So you want to read some stuff?
This is a book you can, you can read and I plan on having this scholar, not
only to do a course where you can actually systematically listen to him
really teach you from the book, comparing Romulus to Jesus.
I wish I had the book here.
You know, I almost want to pull up some stuff.
Just if Ruslan's watching this, I feel like I'm saying his name wrong.
And I don't.
Ruslan.
Ruslan.
Okay.
I apologize.
I want to make sure I say his name correctly.
Um, I'm, I'm going to, I'm going to just share an image here real quickly and
tease people from the book because he goes at the last chapter, translation
fables and the gospels, like he goes straight for the jugular on Christianity.
And even in Paul's first Corinthians 15, the whole eyewitness list, the whole,
he's the son of God.
He literally has become deified.
We're also going to be like him.
All of that is, that is part of the legend.
That is part of this trope that we find in the Greco-Roman world.
You have to pretend yours is right and everyone else's is wrong.
Yeah.
Um, that's what we call a special pleading.
Exactly.
But you want to say your information is, is more correct or whatever than,
than, uh, than there.
So here is just mimetic signals referencing, right?
The translation of Romulus and Jesus compared.
They have a missing body.
Both of them are missing bodies, prodigies, darkness over the land, mountaintop
speech and great commission.
Cause once Romulus appears, we know the one where he said, go into the
nations and, and convert and baptize in the name of the Father, Son of the Holy
Spirit on the great commission from Romulus to proculus Julius, who's the
eyewitness of him.
He says, go and tell the people that my, my, uh, empire, Rome will rule the world.
Guess what happens in reality.
It rules the damn world.
It's true.
It must be, they have ascensions.
They're both sons of God.
They, they have meetings on the road, eyewitness testimony taken away in a
cloud, literally taking away in a cloud, dubious alternative accounts,
meaning they're not all lined up.
Gospels don't agree with each other and neither do the accounts of Romulus.
One of them says the Senate took him and killed him because they're mimicking
Julius Caesar.
You got to read the book to understand this.
The other one says the gods took him and he was gone.
So they don't have the same story.
Just like the gospel is going to agree with the empty tomb or any, all the
stuff, immortal, heavenly body outside of the, uh, the city, the people flee
deification, belief, homogen, rejoicing, bright and shining appearance.
Well, they both have this frightened, right?
The people frightened all in, or the, or they were both frightened.
I can't remember all in sorrow over loss, inspired message of apotheosis.
So you need to get this book.
If you're dead serious about wanting to know the truth about the
literature and what's going on, right?
Sorry, I had to take us.
No, all good, all good.
This is serious stuff though.
I really think that if you're going to be serious about understanding this and
being critical of the non-believers out there, we have great reasons, actually
excellent reasons to say what we're saying.
Did I click the right one?
I'm over here rambling, bro.
Shut me up.
No, it's all good.
No, it's all good.
I think I'm hoping that people from my world are at least watching this to just
get a sense of what's driving people to say these things.
And so when Ruslan says we settled these issues a decade ago, like it's, if it
was settled a decade ago, it's because it was already settled before you came to
the issue, like you already had a, you knew your stance.
You knew nothing was going to change your stance.
And so it was settled before you even encountered the information.
If you ever encountered it.
Yeah.
I shut my mind off a decade ago.
It's pretty much what I'm hearing.
Like this, everything you guys say isn't true.
Hypothesis, buddy, it's much more than a hypothesis.
But he did just that.
And even still, with all the signs, there were people who still wouldn't believe.
A very strange day has come in.
We're paying you.
We're paying you.
A surprising new transition.
So yeah, I'm with you.
That's why, that's why it's cognitive dissonance and, and just honesty.
And like, when you are hitting it, man, it's, I wish, you know, I can
understand why people still believe and you, and you could see that and you,
and you should respect that.
I could understand why people still believe.
Watch how this thought gets unpacked, right?
And by the way, the virtue that's valued, any of these people, I don't care who it
is filling in a blank, your favorite Christian who deconstructed, you'll
notice one theme, they've, the, the, the value and the virtue that they hold
up highest esteem now is not restraint is not delaying gratification is not
truth is not doing the right thing.
The, the, the, the value they hold the highest is honesty, honesty, authenticity.
Right.
You'll hear this over and over again.
All of them say it.
All right, Joseph Solomon, all of them talk honesty, authenticity, being real,
being raw, right?
And not restraint, not, not delaying gratification, not doing the right things,
not keeping all of my ideas.
But why, honestly, why would you, I mean, I feel like I do all sorts of great
things because I mean, I'm a humanist, right?
I just want to comment on this before we go back to him continuing.
I like, I'm helping drug addicts who struggle with addiction, inspire
them to try and get off drugs.
So they have life.
They can actually enjoy this little bit of sunlight that we get to enjoy as humans.
Um, it's not in, in these conversations, it's not my primary discussion to try
and sit here and go, all right now, here's what we need to do.
Uh, usually I'm poking holes at this information, but honesty, shouldn't
be the primary thing it seems, uh, should just be behavior.
Well, if that's the case, we should just accept all of these religions.
Anyone, by the way, I do accept Muslim, Hindu, you name it.
Does it matter where they're from?
If they're ethically on a good standing in terms of trying to be good people and
stuff, hell yeah, I'm all for that.
But it's like that this is so much.
I mean, I would, I would only add, I don't think I have anything to add.
Really.
I don't know why I'm even saying anything because I think you killed it just now.
The idea that something other than intellectual honesty or authenticity or
just the, the, the desire to want to be able to live with yourself, to have the
things that you're thinking and believing match your reality.
As if that's a bad thing.
Or like you said, as if some other trait should matter more.
Like let's just say, you know, I get this a lot.
If you don't believe in God anymore, so how do you, how do you get morality?
I get that that's part of the conversation.
If you read my book, the last three chapters deal with, okay, how do you
get morality without God?
So it's not that we don't care about those things.
We don't care about being good people.
We don't care about, it's that when we're talking about, like you said, these things,
there is something to this idea of being intellectually honest.
There are people who I've read who Christians, who after they talk about the
issue of evolution and Genesis and not being able to square it, they say, at
worse, I'm being intellectually dishonest.
Like that's, that's probably what I'm going to have to do from now on.
I'm like, okay, call it what it is, but don't be mad at me for wanting
to be intellectually honest and then talk about that as if that's some sort
of mark against me for wanting that to be, uh, something that matters in this
conversation.
Yeah.
You being honest, you should tone down that honesty in terms of the balance
here for how about that?
Yeah.
It's kind of weird.
Uh, I want to continue.
What does it say about the position?
Yeah.
Yeah.
To myself sometimes, because they're not always true.
My honesty is honesty, authenticity.
I got to be the real me, right?
But listen to this point.
He says, I understand why people still believe we have to respect that.
And I do.
Right?
No, no, no, I'm going to let him flush this out.
Watch this.
You got to relate.
You got to empathize.
I'm an extra got it seven years off.
I was injecting.
I don't look at it.
So how the hell dare you injecting drugs into your body?
Why are you sniffing that stuff?
Why are you, I know what it's like.
I legitimately empathize.
I understand.
So my point is, is we should do better in trying to relate empathize at the same
time, if only they could understand, you know what I'm saying?
You wish they could understand.
This man just in one breath said, you got to understand it.
You got to respect it.
We got to extend empathy.
And then in the same breath, compared people who are still believers and
followers of Christianity, to be drug addicts.
The sheer.
Done, done, done.
Oh, yes.
No, this is the point.
Yeah.
I think this is a good point to stop.
Did you not, did I, did you not just say the point my point is right, right?
You said my point is, and it's an analogy.
We need to be, and we need to be more empathetic.
That was your point.
What in the world did you say to make him think you were saying Christians are
like drug addicts and by the way, and by the way, even if that were the case,
which it isn't, you're right.
Even if that were the assessment that he makes right here, as if a drug drug
addict is almost less than human, like, oh, you equated us to these bad things.
Everyone in this world has addictions to something.
Mine was particularly opiates, opioids and alcohol.
Okay.
Like I'm actually coming from like, I don't judge them.
I was this and I'm trying to say I was a Christian.
I know what it's like to have my mind not willing to go down this path.
So for those who can't, they're really not able.
Like your friend said, I'd rather be intellectually dishonest because I'm
scared of hell or I worry what if I'm wrong, those kinds of things.
Like I work with you.
I will try to be patient or even stop bothering you.
I have one guy, I'm going to give you an example right now.
I'm not going to name him.
He messaged me all the time about his deconversion and he's terrified.
I mean, I haven't had anyone be this fearful that they always keep
messaging me like they're on the fence and they're struggling and they're
worried about hell and they're worried about, did you see this
apologist video, did you see that video?
Oh, great video you did.
But did you see that like he goes back and forth and he's afraid of hell.
I finally one day went, have you thought about just going ahead and, and just
so you have peace of mind believing again and just so that you're on your God's
good side.
I know that it's hard to reconcile this in light of the information you have
learned, but like, have you not thought just become a Christian again.
So you could sleep at night and you're not always stressing about this.
Yeah.
Now this person responded me because I was actually encouraging them to believe
again, like as an atheist, I'm saying, bro, like,
believe again, this is more hell for you at this point all day long.
Cause it sounds like he's terrorized.
Well, at the end of the day, they responded and said, no, I'm getting
therapy and stuff.
Like they're still want to go down that path.
And I'm like, look, I can't fix that for you.
I could just tell you that hell did not originate with Jews, nor did it
originate with Christianity.
You can go to Zoroastrianism.
You even have a lake of fire in the Egyptian mythology.
Like, like they have had these concepts for a long time.
Jews did not teach this.
So this is something that eventually gets picked up.
When you learn that information, it, it guards you from the fear of what's
happening.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But he took that as like, I said that Christians, believers are drug addicts as
if drug addicts are almost bad, like you shouldn't be somebody who, who has a
struggle, you know what I'm saying?
I would almost say that you could equate it in a way.
Think about it.
The thorn in my flesh, this flesh is this wicked body.
I can't wait to escape to be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord.
The theology of Paul, this is not good, right?
And I need to, I need to go to my Lord, preferably through martyrdom or some
form of persecute me, you know, so that I'm gaining rewards in heaven.
The, anyway, I can go on and on about this.
Well, no, I mean, I think you're right.
And this is not to offend anyone, even though it's not what you meant, there's
a sense in which religion does create something like an addiction in people.
Uh, just the need for, if I tell you that you're such a lowly creature and then
only, only through this can you get validation and you've got a need for
salvation and you've got a need for, and you can only get it through this.
If I create the need in you, I can get you addicted to solving your
need through the way that I invented.
And I think there is some, whether it be the spiritual aspect, or it could be,
this is why I find my community.
I'll be honest, like in a lot of ways, I think I was this when I was on
tank Oz and Jenna, I'm addicted to Facebook in some ways, because that my
Christian community for so many years has been those people.
And I've had to like pull myself away from like, you know, don't post today.
Don't go liking stuff.
Don't, if I find a good series on Netflix, I want to go tell those
people, because that was my community.
I was addicted to that community.
I'm still, to this moment, weaning myself off of that community.
So the idea of addiction, I think is a fair comparison, even though that was
nowhere near the point that you were making, you were simply talking about
our need to, if we've had an experience someone else is having, shouldn't
we be able to relate to them?
It was that simple.
It was that simple.
Even if you think they're wrong, right?
In their belief.
And you think maybe, maybe they're attributing their experience to that
belief and they're wrong.
You should relate and understand why they believe and respect that and like,
give them that space, but you know, be there and try to be patient.
Don't attack.
Like I'm trying to encourage atheists to not do what I see a lot of
atheists do out there.
And I do see it where it's just attack.
Look, I get it.
You got trolls like Kent Hoven types and such in like real presuppositionalists
that are just almost unbearable to deal with.
I bet you he would feel the same way about some of these presuppositions,
presuppositionalists, but like when, when you're actually, you know, someone
who's gone through addiction and knows the struggle, you want to have your
arm out there to be like, Hey, I get it.
Come as you are.
Like for real, we're here.
We understand what you're going through.
And if you're interested in understanding why we came to where we are, we
got you.
If not, you know,
well, see, and that's the thing.
One of the reasons why I have such a hard time pulling myself away from Facebook
is the fact that it was my community for so long.
But the other reason is I know what it's like to have these questions about
the faith, questions about the Bible, these doubts.
And I didn't know about myth vision.
I didn't know about apology.
I didn't know about Matt Della Hunty.
I didn't know about any of you all back when I was going through what I was
going through 2014 to 2020.
It was the darkest period of my life.
And so one of the reasons why I still hang out on Facebook is because every
day there's somebody else in my inbox like, Hey, I think I am now where you
were several years ago and I'm reaching back out to help other people.
So that's what you were talking about, you know, in terms of being empathetic,
we know that experience.
That was it.
It was that simple, but it was like, I don't know, some negative way of
of complete arrogance to say that.
And like, and for that, he's like, Yeah, well, we know what it's like to be off
of drugs because religion was, and maybe religion was your drug.
Maybe you didn't really have an encounter with the living.
This shows you right here, by the way, um, he's, his ignorance, again, not
empathizing, not understanding, but let's let's repeat.
There's a lot to unpack right here real quick.
Of complete arrogance to say that.
And like, and for that, he's like, Yeah, well, we know what it's like to be off
of drugs because religion was, and maybe religion was your drug.
Maybe you didn't really have an encounter with the living God.
Hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on.
This is hard to decipher here because you're, so maybe this is really, really
interesting because I have had extremely powerful experiences in the church.
You could almost say I was high in the spirit, high on Jesus, high on Jesus.
For real, I bet you if I did a brain scan while I'm in their praise and God and
preaching and teaching and learning and, and worship the whole nine, my head is
going to light up like a, like a various areas in my, in my brain are going to
light up with all the chemicals that are being released.
And yeah, I had like extremely deep experiences.
Like if you've ever done drugs, you know how extremely deep those experiences are.
There's an analogy here, but at the end of the day, he's acting like, well, you've
never had, this is what's really weird.
I'm just going to let the audio play for a second because religion was, and maybe
religion was your drug.
Maybe you didn't really have an encounter with the living God.
So this is a serious question I have.
What is an encounter with the living God?
What is that?
Tell me if you're watching this, do a response video.
What is an encounter?
I'll tell you what the Bible says an encounter with the living God is.
Moses meets God face to face on the mountain or Jesus appears to Thomas.
But if you're going to say you've had some emotional experience or something
that felt good, the Numa of God, the spirit of God, the Holy Spirit or something,
you're going to get into that vague, weird, I can't really say what it is kind of
area that we're describing as well.
But we're being honest again about what it is because it's an experience.
There's some time.
How do you encounter the living God?
What is that?
Other than some profound, you read the Bible, you must think, did they take
mushrooms?
Look at Ezekiel, are they high?
What the hell?
LSD?
I mean, how is that experience?
If you haven't experienced that man, then you have no encounter with the living
God.
So you're talking out of, and how do you, and on my podcast, my Icopod,
we just did an episode on why divine revolution from God is impossible.
And the idea is, how do you know what your experience was God?
And if you say, well, it's got to match what you see in the text, the question
becomes, how do the people who wrote the text know that what they experienced was
the living God, especially when you have Paul saying that Satan himself appears as
an angel of light?
How does Moses know that what he saw on the mountaintop was the living God and not
Satan appearing as an angel of light?
How does Paul know that on the road to Damascus, it was Jesus and not Satan
appearing as an angel of light?
You've got God allowing the angels around his court to go be lying spirits.
How do any of the writers of scripture know that what was given to them as divine
revelation was not a lying spirit?
What's an experience with the living God?
You're right.
I mean, that, that, if you really pin it down, are you going to say that Satan
couldn't say he's Jesus to deceive you?
Like, is he not smart enough to go, well, if I tell him I'm Jesus, then he'll
believe me and then he'll follow me and he'll, or whatever.
I'm just making, and if you say, if you say God wouldn't allow that, look at
all the things God apparently allows in scripture, right?
You know, yeah, how are you going to commit to Ahab to go?
I'm going to go be a lying spirit in the mouth of his prophets.
God will allow some crazy things, apparently.
That's why you hear the, the usual cliche where atheists are people who don't
believe anymore, they might be agnostic, they might be, who knows what they want
to call themselves, even spiritual, right?
People have gone into more of a spiritual route.
I encourage whatever helps them to be, you know, on their own path, but they'll
say stuff like you want to make a non-believer, just have them read the Bible.
Like actually read the Bible, know what they're reading, not reading it in the
terms of like my pastor teaching me something, I need to kind of perceive it this way.
If you actually start reading this stuff and think about what you're reading, you
might walk away going, holy smokes, this sounds like very human, very man-made and
then almost unbelievable on certain accounts that just sound fiction.
Yeah.
I'll add this last point on the whole idea of religion versus a drug or religion
compared to a drug.
If you do believe you've had quote unquote experience with the living God, how
many Christians spend their lives like drug addicts chasing that original high.
I know I experienced something with God.
I spoke in tongues or I had this, I felt this electricity go through me, right?
And whatever it was that produced that in that moment, you may not have experienced
that sense and you spend your life chasing that high.
I'm trying to, you go from worship service to worship service, revival to revival,
encounter to encounter, trying to, I know I felt it before God meet me again.
I think there are some very real comparisons there.
Well put, well put, Brady.
Maybe it was a drug for you, but to conflate, am I bugging?
Help me.
Am I tripping or is this just the awful parallel that just shows an amount of lack
of self-awareness?
No, no, no.
You just don't know that I have like a decade of addiction experience that I had
to fight a demon, my whole like grown up adult life.
And I use the analogy from my experience that was fitting to my experience as a
devout Christian who had tons of encounters with the living God.
And just arrogance that is so tonda to anyone you're going to try to allegedly try
to reach, potentially try to reach to bring over to your side.
Right?
Like am I bugging?
Help me out.
It's so disingenuous.
It's so disingenuous.
Like, by the way, I get tons of emails from people who actually listen to
myth vision podcast, not my vision, but myth vision, who tell me how influential
and how game changing this, my journey in my honest honesty, right?
And like what they're seeing in the text when they actually investigate this
and what makes the most sense to them.
So, you know, the person with the arrogance and not awareness is him.
He just doesn't know there are people who are coming in the like flocks of
people who are coming to the side who recognize the issue here.
We got to be empathetic.
We got it.
This is, you know, this is no different than the people they claim are trying
to do conversion therapy on the alphabet community.
It's literally, it's literally the same thing that frustrates you about
Christians is the same thing, right?
It was not to be fair from his perspective.
We are not sober minded.
Yeah.
We're the drug addicts in the metaphor.
We're the, we're the drug addicts.
That's a crazy parallel, fam.
That's an, that's an insane parallel to, to, to say people of faith, people
of faith are the drug addicts.
They're looking at me and they're going, one day he'll get it.
Which I don't have to comment because we already, we already mentioned that.
So yeah, yeah, I tell all of them like, combined, I've forgotten.
Oh, this is good.
This is so good.
Yeah.
Here.
Yes.
This is so good.
Everybody are the drug addicts.
This is, go ahead, Brady.
Well, now hold on.
I don't know because this Derek, this seems like a different version.
I think he might, he might not play your whole context here.
Cause it seems like he just jumped right into it, but there's a bigger
context to what he's about.
Oh, there's a huge videos in the description.
The original video me and Brady did go subscribe.
Not only to Brady's YouTube channel, because we're going to refresh
at the end of this live stream.
We're going to see this is where it, some really good stuff where this guy
just wants to pick me apart.
Notice it's me.
He ain't even dealing with you, bro.
He's like, man, I'm getting bullied right now, man.
Oh, seriously though, stops gaming, man.
Thank you for that super chat update.
A lost language from ancient tablets reveals names of gods in stunning find.
Vice article available online.
They are on, they are in Amorite of which very few tablets have been found.
Hmm.
Interesting.
Thank you for the update.
Here we go.
Here's the juicy everybody.
They're looking at me and they're going, one day he'll get it.
One day he'll come back and I tell all of them like, combined, I've
forgotten more about the Bible than you have ever learned about it.
And you're telling me that one day you're going to get it.
Like I'm going to get it.
I said, this is.
This man said, combine.
I forgot more about the Bible.
It's narcissistic.
Anyway, back to you brother.
I want to hear what you have to say.
I'm just.
So hold on, hold on.
It's narcissistic.
Yeah.
So this does come at first or what?
Cause he's about to, he's about to critique that.
Do you want to do?
Yeah.
Let's play his comment and then we'll come back.
If he's going to.
Yeah.
Sure.
Sure.
Yo, if this is in projection, I don't know what is it's narcissistic,
bro, the sheer irony and the fact that Brady good one just sat.
This is what happens when you get into your echo chamber.
And if you know, if, and I listened to this dude's story, it's the same thing.
It's the, I was a, he was an actual Calvinist.
Stop, you can stop.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Okay.
Cause I don't think he's going to actually give the context for what you said.
He's, so this is an edited version that's on his channel right now.
Yep.
So it looks like we don't know who you're talking, like you're just talking
about any and everybody that you Derek from myth vision are such a biblical guru
that you know more about the Bible than all of everybody combined.
As if you're not talking about a very specific situation.
Like, who were you talking about in that clip?
Let me, let me start with something and then get that answer.
Okay.
This channel is not just a deconversion channel.
Like we have these conversations because I relate and I want to hear the,
the voices and interview people who relate, right?
This channel is actually an academic.
It's, it's under the category of education, right?
On YouTube.
I am a student.
I do not have all the answers and I am far from the brightest and I might be
wrong on so many things.
I'm very open about that.
In fact, that's why I interview experts in the field.
Okay.
So they know more and many of them have forgotten more than I will ever know.
But anyone who knows how hard we go on the vision knows we don't play.
We go deep.
We have so much we do, right?
The context, which he has cut out for this little clip that I think works for those
who want to hear him, give them what they want.
Okay.
And that makes me look narcissistic.
Cause why would I follow up with that statement and say, Oh, so narcissistic
after I just said such a profound statement, what I was actually talking
about was my own family, my mom, my wonderful sisters, um, everyone in my
family, just about has faith and believes in Jesus, but they have this
like absolutism that their belief is true, that they believe in Jesus and they
don't want that challenged.
They've literally told me, I don't want to talk about it.
I, Jesus is Lord.
I'm not going to hell.
I don't want to believe that.
And they worry about going to hell all the time, but none of them own a Bible
and read it.
Okay.
None of them.
I've got my original, where's it at, man?
I got my original King James Bible.
Here it is.
I've got my original King James Bible.
When I was in high school and I was 16 and I was a King James onlyist.
I read this book, this specific Bible from Genesis to the revelation 21,
the end of the book.
I read the entire Bible.
And if you were to go through all the notes, right?
And the opening and things like that, I don't know if you could see everything,
but I literally went to the color code.
Yeah.
I went through this thing and I dissected it.
I was there on the mountain.
God gave the tablets of Moses.
I was there on the boat with Noah.
I was there and I loved it because I traveled with God from the, from the
garden, making man from clay, all the way to the end where utopia is supposed to
come in, forget the whole warrior concept of Jesus coming and destroying the
enemy, but there was no more tears and sorrow and death and things like that.
I lived it, right?
And that was, as I was a teenager, I was 16 years old.
I read this whole thing.
I have devout, I went to college like you, right?
So I have an education in this.
Evangelical education when I went to college, I learned more from
commentaries than I ever did at that college.
But then I actually read and I started studying under experts.
So when you know, and you're sitting around your family that you love more
than anything in this world, and they say to you, Brady, one day after you're
talking to them, they want to have this conversation and you usually avoid it
because you know it's going to hurt them.
It's sensitive.
And they look at each other after they hear me say something about why I don't
believe, and then they look and they go, he'll come back at some point.
He'll realize that he's wrong.
And you, it sounds narcissistic because it's like, you don't even know your
Bibles, right?
Like you honestly don't know what you're reading and you haven't immersed
yourself in this.
That's where that statement came from, where I said, I have forgotten
more about this book than they've ever learned about it.
And I mean that.
That was super clear in our original video.
So for him to take that statement and turn it into who are you to say that?
He would need to be saying, who are you to say that to anybody?
Like, is there no one on the earth that he would allow you to say that
to and not think you're being narcissistic?
I mean, context.
You're right.
He took the context out and then made it look like I'm a narcissist for
saying that's narcissistic.
Like, how could you?
No, I mean, what seems narcissistic and maybe I'm wrong in that label.
That's what made sense at the time to say was three people that I love more
than anything who don't know this book.
They only know the nice message they hear on Sunday when they go to church
about just being loving and caring about people around.
They don't really know this text.
They don't, and I've even asked them questions, asked their, their pastors
and their pastors come back and like, this was his response.
I'm like, oh, I'm sure.
So now here I'll give you some more things for him to chew on and then, you
know, to come back or whatever.
Um, like when, when I'm hearing them say, oh, he's wrong and he'll realize it at
some point, it made me and I responded to them.
I'd never done this before with them.
I'm usually sensitive and walk away.
I, I responded in that conversation and I said, actually, I think that you guys
are wrong, but I'm not sure if you'll ever discover that like, like you're
assuming I'm wrong and then I'm going to come back.
And that's quite a huge statement that makes me go, that's arrogant of you to
assume that you think I'm wrong, but you've never actually studied.
It's like talking to a mechanic who's spent 40 years on mechanics.
Okay.
And you've never put a damn, you know, I don't know, a gasket cover on or you've
never changed your start plugs or something.
And you're going to tell me the mechanic or someone who's a mechanic, how they
don't know what you're talking about with cars, like you'll see, I'm right
related.
You'll fit, you know, you'll come around to my side.
Yeah.
Right.
That was the context, but he blew it up into a, we can't, we don't need to
listen to this guy.
He's narcissistic or how ironic, you know, kind of weird.
Yeah.
How much more does guys left man?
I, it's, it's, um, we're halfway.
Um, we don't have to go through too much more.
I could speed it up to 1.5.
I'm trying to think, is there anything else he says that I'm like, really,
yeah, I think he does get into, let's see, let's see what happens.
Okay.
The five point Calvinist, it's the same thing.
Is he, so he must not like Calvinist.
It's the same type of thinking.
It's the same fundamentalist radical Calvinistic theology over everything
else type of thinking.
It's just inverted.
The dog must just inverted.
They just switched.
You just, you just took the Jersey and you reversed it.
Tell me I'm lying.
I'm relating and I'm trying to hide.
You want to tell me his line or do I need to?
I'm just going to be here.
I've heard good testimony before.
I'm relating too much more to say about this guy.
Yeah.
I'm trying to vibe with you here.
Come through the screen and just hug you like brother.
I feel you because there's so much that like, just to this idea of how
really it was to me, how real my desire is to see other people in the same.
I wanted to see people freed from sin and death.
Right.
I want to see people freed from ancient ideas, from ancient ways of understanding
the world and understanding yourself that to me, I'm looking at it now.
So that was some of the most unhealthy self-talk you could have ever given yourself.
Bro, all the ideas that were ancient are the very bedrock of Western society.
The very bedrock of Western ethics, morality, anything that we're seeing
in our context is borrowing, is borrowing from God and specifically
the New Testament ethic down to our freaking laws.
So this is a good, good point to get into here.
About slavery.
Yeah.
I'll just say, how about slavery?
That's an ancient idea.
Is that, yeah, is that, is that part of the bedrock that you'd like to, to
still be building on?
Have we not improved upon, uh, these ancient ideas?
I don't understand that.
I really don't.
It's, it's amazing, um, because I don't deny that there, these are, there's
much bedrock here, of course, that come from even Christianity.
I mean, this is a stepping stone in the process of us figuring out what we are,
where we need to go.
And it's just like mutation within evolution.
You find out, Hey, some components need to just kind of, eventually you
evolved out of that environment.
You don't need that any more.
Of course, Christians imagine this is immutable.
The same way that Muslims will say, Muhammad is the example for all time,
space and forever.
And maybe we figure out some things like, let's just say you historically, I
don't want to get caught up in this too much, but let's just say historically
people actually say that Muhammad married and consensually had sex with a nine
year old, he's 50, something years old.
Okay.
She's nine years old.
Let's say science as shown in it as that this is actually provable, harmful to
people that are adolescents, pre-pubescent.
Okay.
And you have this scenario, but people see him as the all time example.
Now play that on to Christianity and its models on, let's say slavery, or even
the self-talk, which is specific to your context, that hate of self, hate the flesh.
If you love this life, you will lose it.
Right.
If you love you, if you love your life, right, you'll lose it.
Right.
Yeah.
But if you, if you hate this life, you will gain life.
Oh, that's quite a radical teaching.
Is that a good thing?
Should we actually hate your life?
Should we base our society on that principle?
Yeah.
And by the way, much of New Testament, its ethics, its morals were bedrock
within the Mediterranean world and possibly even second table Judaism to some
degree, but there's still a system, you get it from Aristotle, you get it from, I
mean, Christianity was not original in some of those ideas.
Yeah.
You're not lying because Justin Marder, in that same apology, go read
Richard C.
Miller's book that I showed you earlier in that book, he shows you where he
actually equates Aristotle as a Christian, like they're anachronistically
putting Christian titles on pagan philosophers because they saw some
philosophy and then that they liked and agreed.
Well, these we know weren't Christians historically.
But you get the same thing in Islam.
Adam, Moses, all of these people were Muslims.
Christ Jesus was a Muslim, right?
Like, so, you know, it's, it's a good way of trying to paint this story back
onto people that weren't on your team, but you want them on your team to make it
work, like it never ends, bro.
You know, and then the Greeks got this from where?
Where did they get that from?
And it goes on and on.
Yeah.
We, the, the Christian has the benefit of having the most surviving documents
to be able to say, well, then we must have been the ones who came up with it
because look at all the documents we have.
But then when you do find surviving documents from other times and other
cultures, you realize, oh, this was not original.
You have plenty of the elder.
You have Philo of Alexandria.
You have all these people who were saying some of the very famous quotes
of Jesus before Jesus.
Right.
Very golden rule was not original to Jesus.
Right.
This is in the pagan world.
You know, this is in the Greco-Roman Mediterranean.
Um, humanist reformation says, amazing how few Christians have actually read
their Bibles that doesn't stop them from legislating everyone with what they
think it says, though.
Hmm.
Thank you, humanists for that.
Super chat.
Did you super chat me?
I think you super chat me earlier or not.
I don't know if I missed it or what not.
I don't know.
Um, a little bit longer.
We won't, we won't stay on them too long because I really would rather have a
discussion with you a little before we go and plug this book in, refresh things.
Cause I don't want to get a law called the good Samaritan law inspired by
good Samaritan law.
What?
The, yeah, of course, I have no denial of the good Samaritan law coming from this
parable, but anyway, parable of the good Samaritan boom, you felt that you were
standing on the very foundations that you're trying to dismantle cause you got
enlightened.
It's such hogwash and it's so we're not dismantling positive ethics.
We're saying chew the meat, spit out the bone.
Right.
Right.
If I see something good, I don't care where it is.
The Quran Bible.
I don't care.
That's good.
Right.
Like, and we should, we should value the wisdom of ancient people when it's good.
We should dissect.
I hope our children, this is my statement.
I hope our children's children's children will look back and go, they tried
with what they had.
Like you said, the hypothesis of God was the best thing they had at the time.
They tried with what they had.
They were wrong about some things.
They were right about some things.
Let's give them credit where credit's due.
Let's move forward where we think they were mistaken.
And I think, I mean, I thought I was being gracious and saying, I said, you know,
God is an ancient hypothesis.
And I said, I don't, I'm not even as far as saying that we can actually rule God
out.
Right.
Like, I think that keeping that in the back pocket as, Hey, you know, there
could be a, you know, I still would say, I don't think he's communicated with us
or it's communicated with us apparently.
Um, but I'm not saying throw out everything.
If it's a good hypothesis or to whatever degree, it's good.
Let's keep it to that degree, but let's not base our society on it as if it's
something that we can actually fall back on and never be let down by.
That's all I'm saying there.
Right.
Good point.
So disingenuous.
Look at the world before Jesus came.
Look at the value of human life before Jesus arrived at the world after
Jesus, have we, have we really changed so much?
Like, I mean, I think, I mean, like, if I'm going to give, I'm doing something
he's not even doing, right?
The way that orphans and children were often in the Roman Empire, especially
in the Greek world, they would like sometimes literally leave them out to
the streets.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Okay.
There are certain situations, but there were also very ethical Stoics philosophers
and bright minded people who, who were very ethically moral.
Like, and those standards were like the top notch stuff before Christianity.
Look at your own book before Christianity, your own God.
Exactly.
Exactly.
And you brought up a point about the Greco-Roman world.
He talks about the way infants were treated and the way elderly were treated.
But you're talking about a, a Greco-Roman world.
Like there are other cultures, like not every culture around the world,
especially when you get into some African cultures who did not treat the elderly,
the way that people in the Greco-Roman world treated the elderly.
So to say that like the Christian ethic, uh, you know, shed so much light
on the entire world, you're talking about a specific part of the world.
Um, I just think it's very, I don't know if it's ethnocentric, but there's
something is, there's something geocentric about what you're saying in terms
of what Christianity did to quote unquote, the world.
I think Christianity, like I've said before, I think it's just, it mutated
quite well to its environments in order to adapt to those environments.
And this is how it has been so successful in surviving, in my opinion.
It's not only did it have to control, but it would evolve well into the
pagan world in a manner that kind of modeled it.
And that's why Roman Catholicism is what it is, right?
So it's not like Christianity in its roots, very Jewish movement.
Christianity 300 years later, Roman emperors who are pagan are now converting
and becoming Christian and literally adapting the pagan world as their model.
They may have included some ethical changes in particular minutia, but it's
amazing how we're right, ours is special.
It changes everything.
And it's like, if you read, right, you'll find there are unique things
that Christianity does, I'm not going to deny that there are unique changes
that happen, but if that's your reason to believe that he actually rose
from the dead because people were ethically changed in some better way,
then post enlightenment ideas might prove to you that it's not true.
Or you might go with that.
We find out something better ethically down the road.
Are you going to follow that?
I don't know.
So many things.
Do you want to do any more?
Uh, I don't remember there being anything.
Well, he talks about the, I couldn't find it.
There was a part where he talks about my, my statement on the hiddenness
of God being a big deal, um, but I can't really remember it.
And I don't even really want to spend too much time searching through
what he has to say.
I mean, to me, it's, it's, it's mischaracterization of, um, I think my
position of your position.
And I think it's a undo like the way he just kind of dismisses this.
Oh, we don't even have to think about these things.
To me, it's a misguided love of trust in his position.
Uh, I just think that the Christian position has earned the kind of footing
he, he's acting as if he has, um, but I remember being that way.
And so I can forgive the, you know, the analogy that he hates, but I remember
being that way.
And so I could, I can understand why he feels so confident in being so
dismissive of what we said, but I don't think it warrants it.
Well, I guess we'll stop there.
And, um, if anyone wants to watch the rest of his video, there's like
nine minutes, eight minutes left of him talking.
And I'm not sure what else he ends up saying, um, I can't remember.
I watched this a while ago.
I didn't rewatch it before we did this stream, but I'm going to stop
sharing the screen there.
We're going to be coming to, uh, seeing and refreshing the window in just a
moment, but, uh, I do want to give a little bit more back for those who
weren't here at the beginning.
I pinned your YouTube at the top.
We're going to come back to this in just a moment.
So if you're watching, subscribe to his YouTube channel.
I want to bump those numbers up.
We're going to subs, we're going to refresh it here soon.
And we're all going to be eyewitnesses, um, the growth of your channel.
Don't turn David into a false prophet.
You don't, don't please.
I'm going to make a prediction here.
Um, so you're at seven 24, right?
Um, I'm hoping through this stream that we're close to seven 50, I'm
hoping we got 25, 26 subscribers.
What do you, what's your prediction?
Uh, people are at work, but it's a Friday.
I'm going to go, you kind of took the number that I was thinking probably
going to go to.
I'm going to probably say, I'm going to just say, we're going to get to 800
just to see if, uh, just see if it motivates people to go ahead and do it.
Prove me wrong and make Brady correct.
Okay.
I hope that's true about the book.
Again, you've heard some criticisms.
Are any of these criticisms in your estimation worthy of like, have they
done anything to make you, or is it the same stuff that you've kind of seen?
So there's, there, there's one that I actually wanted to watch, but I was
so drained, uh, vocab Malone, he went and got a litany of people.
I mean, like there's got to be probably about 50 videos about my book.
Uh, like I said, this is the tourniquet.
They were trying to put on to stop the bleeding.
So people just got on, they read a chapter, they read two chapters and they,
but there was one group of guys.
I think they did a chapter on my, one of my chapters is on logic.
And I think somebody said the guys who critique that chapter, they may have
had some things that I would, that I need to pay attention to, uh, because I,
you know, I've never formally studied logic.
Um, and so I walk through just the way that I try to justify logic without God.
And so maybe that chapter, maybe the guys who've reviewed that chapter, maybe
there's something there.
I'm not sure, but I haven't seen it.
So I don't know.
I might watch it and say, yeah, but, um, to be honest, no one has that I've seen.
Has done anything that makes me think like I was looking for good dialogue.
I wanted some good back and forth.
Some people taking me to task and giving me some things to think about.
Haven't seen any of that yet.
And I want it, like I said, honest dialogue.
Um, I'm looking forward to that.
Matter of fact, on my channel, I'm doing this thing now where I'm having
these discussions with Christians.
And if they've read the book, I would love to just hear some good feedback
and, uh, pushback even.
And that's not to me, that's not me trying to, you know, not trying to be arrogant,
not trying to say, no, it could take me down a peg.
Nothing that I've heard so far has really dealt with the issues that I'm
bringing up.
Um, what's the closest?
So I'm, I'm, hmm, man.
I really couldn't say, I couldn't really say like no one has really done anything
that, that to me seems like you've read, you've got to respect it enough to read
it, to understand the points that I'm making and then deal with them honestly.
Uh, prove me wrong.
Someone point me to one that would make me say, these guys right here, they, you
didn't think about that.
You should have considered this.
Um, let me bring up something that we did in our first thing, John Walton, right?
A lot of Christians are going down the John Walton route.
They want to make a sophisticated case for their Genesis approach and saying it's
not X knee, hello.
It may be cosmology, but it's more about the cosmology having almost purpose.
It was there before hand, but what, what, what do you think about that particular
approach that, um, many Christians are trying to kind of, right?
I think there's something to that because, you know, there's a big part of
this whole discussion about what's happening in Genesis where, uh, people
like Ellen Van Waald and even SR driver, who's part of the, you know, brown
driver Briggs who wrote the, uh, the Lex, created the lexicon for Hebrew.
Uh, they would say that the word create bara in Genesis one is probably more
separate than it is create.
And I actually take that approach, that approach.
So in Genesis one, one, uh, God doesn't create the heavens and earth.
He separates the heavens and the earth separates the upper body of water from
the lower body of water, the verse that many people don't know what to do with
this Genesis one, two, the spirit of God is hovering over the face of the deep.
I like the, there are a few people who point to the, the, it's not the spirit
hovering.
It's a wind of God separating, keeping those two bodies of water separate.
And then in verse, I think four, verse six, got a dome to over and do what the
wind of God was doing, keeping those two bodies separate.
Um, so I think there's this idea of separating from the very beginning of
Genesis.
And as you go through the chapter, you, you see day separated from night.
You see, uh, dark separated from light.
You see animals separated from the land.
You keep seeing the upper body and lower body separate.
And so what Walton does is he talks about this idea of separation and then
forming until something is, is named.
It's not distinguished.
It's not separated.
It's not really, it doesn't have a purpose yet.
I think that's there.
There's naming the separation there's forming, but I think Walton pay, he makes
it seem as if there is no actual, like God's not doing any real work in
Genesis one.
And I think, yeah, I think the way the chapter is written, it's both God is
doing a, a creating of a kind.
Right.
Um, right.
This isn't like a complete allegory in a way it is.
It's almost like when you look at its predecessor from the Mesopotamian world,
they are really creating humans.
Uh, like this is the first man in this town.
And of course you have the issue of Cain's worst, who's Cain frayed of, right?
Like, but that's a whole different, like, and how's he marrying and having
kids.
Um, but when you look at that in Genesis one, I'm with you.
I think there is a creation here.
And if it wasn't, it's just odd that the way that it's set up, it clearly is
trying to define, here's the first man, you have those who now realize
evolutions on the scene, they need this John Walton thing to try and leverage
this particular, and I'm actually, look, I don't, when I say that, don't take
that wrong for the Christians who might recognize and go, yeah, yeah, I
actually think he has good argumentation here.
The point is, there is no reason in, in the biblical sense to even assume
that man existed before Adam, and then God then just breeds this Numa
into this certain one.
It gives you a creep, kind of a, from this clay, he made this man, Adam, you
have to kind of generalize and algorize, but Adam plays as, he's interpreted
even later in your own biblical text as a single individual man.
And, and this is how he's understood by Jesus and the New Testament.
So like, you know, there's so many issues that you bring up in your book
that I think is, is great, that doesn't get dealt with, like you're saying.
Yeah.
So, but it's funny when I was in seminary though, I read Walton, and I accepted
it.
It wasn't until six years later that I read Walton again, and I read my
notes from seminary, and I was like, what was I think, how could I, I was
trying to find ways to justify it, but you know, Walton does this thing
where Genesis one is creating a mass of human beings, then Genesis two is
creating, you know, a, a couple.
And that's where Cain and Abel get their wives from, is from this
mass of human beings created in Genesis one.
And even Walton's own, his peers, they say he keeps us on our toes with
his creative, you know, interpretations of Genesis one through three.
And I think he is very creative.
I just don't think that the, especially when you get to the New Testament,
you can't do the things that Walton does.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Wow.
Well, I'm glad we didn't have to spend any more time, like diving
into the listening to what was being said.
But yeah, get the book.
999 right now on Kendall.
I love reading.
And is it on audible?
No, not yet.
So one of the things I'm going to do if I get time, people keep saying
you need to create a audible, a audio book.
I don't know if I'll ever get to it, but I would love to.
But right now it's just digital and paperback.
And there's a hard cover as well.
I love the hard covers right here.
Yeah.
So the light probably going to hit it too hard.
Can you see?
Yeah, it's like, oh, there it is, there it is.
Yeah, yeah, there we go.
Yeah.
So I love the hard cover.
Um, oh, and if you, like I said, if you do get the book, drop a review because
I think we need to offset that very biased one that gets all the lights
from the Christians who haven't even read it.
Uh, so get the book, drop a review for sure.
Drop that review.
Um, go check out the videos in the description that we have.
I also have, uh, like again, from the beginning of the video, check out the
Patreon, we've got some stuff coming out.
I've got a lot, a lot of work to do.
We've got some videos with Dennis McDonald.
I've got some videos with Kip Davis.
I've got videos that I've done, um, with Robin Faith Walsh that are going to be
coming out, help us out, join the community.
I also, here's the course page.
I'm going to put this in the, in the, um, chat.
If you're wanting to sign up and check out some of the courses, like these scholars,
some of them are from the higher echelon of, of academic, uh, institutions,
the ivory tower, so to speak, you'd be supporting them and helping us out,
bringing scholarship to a much larger audience.
And a lot of the scholarship is the stuff you see here on myth vision where
we're really critical and we're diving deep into the materials.
So if you're a weird nerd, like me and Brady, check out the courses.
Um, you could sign up here on MVP dash courses.com and, uh, get ready.
Cause we got more coming.
We got more coming.
What else was I going to plug?
Um, well, oh yeah, we're supposed to do this here, aren't we?
Should I do a countdown?
Yeah.
We're going to reveal it.
Subscribe.
Actually, before we do that, I'm going to, I'm going to make sure the people who
don't see it pinned in the chat.
Go subscribe right now.
I just dropped it in the chat.
Here it is.
This is going to let me pop it up.
There it is.
Subscribe.
There's some great discussions on Icopod.
You got three former Christians, just thinking back through how they were able
to, uh, to get themselves out of, uh, out of the faith and, uh, great discussions
on, on deconversions.
So yeah, there's man, you're hitting the nail on the head with this.
Let's see what we have here.
I'm going to refresh it before I show it.
Cause I said seven 50 or at least closer, right?
So whoever's closer wins, let's play it that way.
Prove me wrong.
I, this is, you know, there's times you want to be wrong, right?
I'm going to refresh it.
Actually, I'm going to go ahead and do this full screen.
Get it in.
Three, two, one.
Oh, look at that number.
Seven, seven, seven, that's a Vegas number.
Somebody ought to play that today.
Oh snap.
So this, you win.
This was actually closer to you.
Let me refresh it.
It's like price is right.
Price is right.
If I went over, so I'll lose.
Yes.
No, no, no.
Um, I'm not doing prices.
Right.
This is whoever has it closer.
Cause I was a seven 50, 775 would have been a halfway to the point.
Okay.
The, so it's closer to 800.
I got to give you some credit, man.
You, you, let me refresh it.
You never know.
People might be, look, another one as we were speaking, I mean,
yeah, y'all subscribe, like great.
I just posted a video today.
So, uh, content's coming every week.
We post new videos.
That latest video is this one right here.
I deconverted and then reconverted your turn.
Yep.
Alex will ask us, he's a philosophy professor, uh, who deconverted and reconverted
and, uh, had a great discussion.
He actually is going to read my book and we're going to actually be doing a
series where he and I discussed my book.
So hopefully this will be my first, uh, Christian interaction with somebody
who's not just going to be the chapter or be biased, but be very open
and, and come back with it.
So wow.
Brady, man, keep it up.
Don't, don't be discouraged and don't let, uh, any of this stuff slow you down.
Like we're all human, man.
We're all human and we're just trying to like express that.
So appreciate that.
And shout out to Tang, uh, shout out to Tang in the comments.
We see you, uh, digital homerabi in the comments.
Everybody else in the comments.
Appreciate you guys.
Uh, and Derek, thank you to you, man.
Once again, for opening up your platform and, uh, just the love, man.
I really do appreciate that.
Well, thank you, man.
I appreciate you.
Your insight, um, your experience and relating with me on this and creating a
community where we can talk about this and it's okay to, to discuss these things.
So yeah, any last words?
Nope, I'm done.
I'm out.
All right.
He's done.
Go subscribe.
Thank you, Brady.
And, uh, never forget, we are my vision.
Uh, sorry, myth vision.
Son, do you want to know what the truth is?
After this, there's no turning back.
You take the blue pill and you wake up in your bed and believe whatever you want to.
You take the red pill and you stay in Wonderland.
And I show you just how deep the rabbit hole goes.
Remember, all I'm offering is the truth, nothing more.
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh
