We are MythVision.
Welcome back everybody to MythVision Podcast.
Make sure you go down in that description and check out our goodies to help us out.
We need your help in growing this platform, getting this program going so that we can
bring the scholars you like to hear and to get more shows going with different scholars out there.
So be sure to go down there and help us out.
And our PayPal, you can give it to me or Luther, it doesn't matter.
Make sure you write a comment.
If you have a specific guest you're interested in, we'll start doing that.
Leave something down in the comment section.
We have a special guest with us today and this is Christopher Lawson or he goes as C.H. Lawson,
Reverend C.H. Lawson.
Either way, how's it going Chris?
Very well, thank you.
Good to be back in your show.
Yes, sir.
In fact, I appreciate your shows and I hope that people who are watching catch the other shows
that I've been on here where we've been talking about antigen use in ancient cultures.
And we did a previous show on the story of Jesus and we did one with Dr. Eisman.
And Dr. Robert Eisman is a scholar that I highly, highly respect.
So I think I'll start this show out by referencing a few things that we made in our
comments in our last show with Dr. Eisman.
I have to say that my research wouldn't exist if his research didn't exist.
His was foundational research for me.
There's a lot of Dr. Eisman's material that I 100% concur with and I'm impressed with
and actually rely on as a foundational basis for where I've taken my research.
I think Dr. Eisman has opened a lot of scholastic doors and I have dared to step through a few
of those doors that Dr. Eisman himself has not stepped through.
So I'll try to be clear about where I've gone beyond Dr. Eisman's research, but on the basis of his.
So to begin with, I concur with Dr. Eisman with regard to Paul as a Herodian figure.
Paul is an outsider from the Khumran community who actually went to the Khumran community.
I concur that the idea that Khumran was Damascus when the road to Damascus incident
about Khumran, they called themselves, they called their encampment Damascus.
One of the Dead Sea Scrolls is called the Damascus document.
Paul is the liar of the Habakkuk pressure.
The liar is a term for sectarian opponent that was previously a part of their sect,
stayed with their sect only a brief time, left under hostile circumstances and opposed the sect.
And the sect describes him as doing a number of things which I think we can all
to the apostle Paul. First of all, they said that he raised up congregations.
How many other people went out raising up congregations, raising up churches?
There are very few people that's a very short list. Now, this particular person who raised up
congregations had a distinctive teaching and that was that he opposed the law of Moses that it was
done away with. Well, that's exactly what Paul preaches when you read his writings in Colossians
and Galatians to what fits Paul perfectly. It says that this liar or deceiver that he
broke or he opposed the law of Moses in the midst of the whole congregation.
There are so many descriptions about Paul in the Dead Sea Scrolls in terms of this
yorah, this poorer of lies that is contrasted with their teacher of righteousness.
And at the same time that they're describing this opponent, they describe another opponent,
their teacher of righteousness, who Dr. Eisenman has identified with James the Just.
And I highly recommend Dr. Eisenman's initial research, James the Just in the Habakkuk Peshir.
In fact, this is my copy of James the Just in the Habakkuk Peshir. Now, that's 33 years old.
So Dr. Eisenman has been doing this research and pioneering it for many, many years.
And I found James the Just in the Habakkuk Peshir to be persuasive and convincing on the basis of
the evidence that he adduced. Now, there are a lot of technical terms in the language of the scrolls
that fit precisely with the Hebrew. And Dr. Eisenman is a master of elucidating the comparisons
to the New Testament. I recommend that you read James the Just in the Habakkuk Peshir
for yourself to make those determinations. It is included in his book,
The Dead Sea Scrolls, and the First Christians includes that material. So you'll find it
incorporated there. Now, let's go through some of the things I agree with Dr. Eisenman on,
that the Dead Sea Scrolls sect was essentially a subgroup of the Essenes, which we can call the
Nazarenes. The Nazarene name itself came from a combining of two Hebrew words. There's a phrase
called themselves Keepers of the Covenant, that's Nazarene Habri, and the collective plural Nazarene
got transliterated into Greek as Nazarene. But there's another word that sounds like Nazarene
as well in the Hebrew. And that's for those who were followers of the Netzer. Netzer means the
branch. That was the name of the heir to the throne of David. And so if you were a follower of the
branch, then you were one of the Netzerene. So you have Netzerene and Nazarene, both becoming
Nazarene, the combination of those. So you have the followers of the branch, the Netzerene, and the
Keepers of the Covenant, the Nazarene Habri, becoming Nazarene. It fits in Jesus was known as
the Nazarene. So that would make him their leader. The Scrolls definitely have their main stance
on zeal for righteousness. And it was this zeal from which they got the name zealots.
It was zeal for purity. They were zealous for holiness. And they demanded that the high priest
be qualified in terms of his knowledge of the Torah. And if the high priest was not qualified
in terms of Torah knowledge, then he doesn't deserve to be high priest. And the Roman appointees
were not as knowledgeable of the Torah as the sectarian group was. So they felt that they had
the right person to put in as the high priest. They had a replacement ready. Jeremiah 33 says
they also had to have a king ready because Jeremiah says you to always have a king over Israel.
And that's an important thing. And I'll get into that as to where I go beyond Dr. Eisman,
because Dr. Eisman says, I usually quote, I usually just deal with the pashereen. I don't deal
with these other documents to that extent. And so he, Dr. Eisman admits he likes to focus on the
pashereen. And the Scrolls in general speak about a royal heir. And they do bring it up in the
pashereen. But in the pashereen, they bring it up under the ages of the branch, the netzer. So
and Dr. Eisman does admit that the pashereen mentioned the netzer, mentioned the branch.
But they do take that up in their discussion. And when I mentioned that to him in our last interview,
he immediately stopped scoffing at the concept of a king being involved in the Scrolls. That never
came up again. Once I mentioned, well, they have a netzer. That was it. No more debate on that.
Because Dr. Eisman knows the netzer ideology of the Scrolls very thoroughly and has written on it.
And I think as he is aged, I think he forgot a little item on that. And they had it, he recalled
it. And I have just tremendous respect for Dr. Eisman. So I won't fault him for aging. I'm glad
that he's still with us. I won't fault him either. And we know that you respect him. So there's
absolutely nothing to be concerned about with that today. It's not about that. In fact, we all
have his back and we appreciate his scholarship and everything. So feel free to speak freely and
understand that we know you respect him. So you don't have to repeat that. And I know you feel
like you want to because you don't want to feel like you're stepping on toes. So thank you. Exactly.
So I could have at that point, when you mentioned, you know, kings, I don't know much about the kings
in the Scrolls have gone to a number of quotes in the Scrolls. And I will do so this time. So
here we go. This passage, I'm about to quote, reminds me of the passages
in Luke and in Matthew predicting the destruction at the end of the age and the battle,
the circumambulation of Jerusalem and the whole war in 8070. They predicted in the Scrolls,
but they say some interesting things here. This first of all, this is from
Scrolls 246 from K-4. And this is the Isaman and wise translation. So like I say, Dr. Isaman knows
all this material, but some of it has leaked out with age. So I'm sure that I've lost a lot with
age myself. I don't snap to every reference I want to as fast as I used to. And so here's a quote,
There will be violence and great evils. Oppression will be upon the earth. Peoples will make war
and battles shall multiply among the nations until that king of the people of God arises.
He will be called the son of the great God. By his name he shall be designated. He will be called
the son of God. They will call him the son of the most high. His kingdom will be an eternal kingdom,
and he will be righteous in all his ways. He will judge the earth in righteousness, and everyone
will make peace. The sword shall cease from the earth, and every nation will bow down to him.
So they definitely had a king in mind. And it was the pivotal climax of all their prophecies
that he would become the boss guy. And the king theme continues on many different places.
Let's just find the rest of my notes. There we go.
Okay.
Messian king. Okay. I'm just finding my pages for looking at my reference material.
And I'm quoting a lot of this material from my reconstructing Jesus. You really want to get a
copy of this for yourself. A lot of work went into this. Oh, that's part of the where things have
changed over from Paul. He reversed a lot of things. Okay. That's not the one I want to go to next.
One I want to go to next is in my cannabis sacrament, which is part of my court presentation
for the trip to the universe. A lot of Dead Sea Scroll material was presented here in that court
case. This is from the Damascus document from cave four. And it's fragment three column four,
line seven to 10. And the star is the interpreter of the law who came to Damascus. Again, that
Damascus thing there to talk about as a place. And this is the same idea with public who came
to Damascus. As it is written, a star departs out of Jacob and a scepter arises out of Israel.
The scepter is the king of the whole congregation. And when he arises, he will destroy all the sons
of Seth. Now, when I mentioned that arising is an imagery for resurrection, like in Daniel,
the dead shall rise and stand in their lot at the end of days. And so the rising idea was used
about all the expectations of the messiah when you reach to Tonius and Josephus and Tacitus.
And they say the majority of the Jews believed in this idea. And they continually used the idea
of arising as part of their expectation that this messianic figure will arise. And this sounds
to me like expectations of a resurrection. We previously dealt with the idea that Jesus'
resurrection was originally thought to be 40 years later by the dead sea sect, their teacher
of righteousness. I keep saying Jesus. And I make the assumption that the teacher of righteousness
of the dead sea sect is Jesus, the unique teacher. There are a series of these unique teachers. One
of the teachers of righteousness, the one in the Habakkuk picture, was James the Just. But there
were a series of these teachers. And the one they referred back to historically as the unique teacher
is the one that they expected to arise after 40 years. So here we have in 4Q 250, 252,
the idea, and in the Damascus document, that the king is going to arise and he's going to destroy
all evil. Well, that matches the idea of the resurrection of the righteous teacher
at the end of the day. So this is a link of the righteous teacher to being that king. And that's
a link that Dr. Eisenman said he doesn't see. But this is one of the reasons I see that link,
is they both are expected to resurrect and conquer the wicked at the end of time. Well,
there can only be one end of time conquering of all the wicked. So it's got to be the same person.
And here's another quote. The Desi scroll sect took this very fervently. This is where they
make their reference to Jeremiah 33. There will be kings to all of you over Israel. Here's a quote
from 4Q 252, column five, lines one to four. A king shall not be removed from the tribe of Judah
while Israel has the dominion. There will not lack someone who sits on the throne of David. For the
staff is the covenant of royalty. The thousands of Israel are the feet until the Messiah of
righteousness comes. The branch of David. For to him and to his heirs has been given the covenant
of royalty over his people for all everlasting generations. A covenant of royalty for this
Messiah and his heirs. His heirs. The Desi scroll community says whoever this teacher of
righteousness was, he had heirs. It's an important concept. Now,
one of the reasons a lot of Christians do not want to accept the topi tomb as a legitimate tomb
for the historical Jesus is because there was an ossuary there that says one of those occupants,
one of those ossuaries, was filled with someone who claimed to be or was represented as the Son
of Jesus. So you've got Yehuda Bar Yeshua, one of the ossuaries, Judah's Son of Jesus.
And that makes sense with the Desi scroll community. First of all, Jesus's claims for
Messiahship couldn't have been authentic, couldn't have been legitimate unless he was the king,
the conquering king. The Isaiah says in Isaiah 66 that the Messiah would be a conquering king.
And in the Isaiah scroll from Qumran, that passage, right where it says the Messiah will be a
conquering king, they marked a little X in the scroll right there. So this was really a significant
pet. They didn't put an X in the scroll anywhere else, just there. That's the only thing they marked
in all this scroll, beautiful scroll, no markings, no underline, but this got highlighted.
If you don't mind me bringing this up, because a lot of people would say, well,
in what you're saying here, Jesus wasn't a conquering king. He never claimed to be a king
according to the Gospels, but others claimed he was the king and he failed at his mission
according to skeptics. A lot of skeptics would suggest he failed. Others say he may not have
existed. We're not even talking about that. We're going to presuppose at this moment the existence.
If he did exist, what is your opinion on what happened? Do you think cognitive dissonance like
Bart Ehrman, Dr. Bart Ehrman, and saying, you know what, they couldn't accept the failed Messiah
concept and this had to be the guy so they ran with him? Well, I think it becomes a matter of
national disgrace. They began, the Jewish nation, as I understand it, began a messianic war because
they did believe. That's the big secret that I'm going to have every Jewish scholar now
coming on and saying, oh, Mr. Lawson, how could you be so sorely messed up?
The evidence seems irrefutable that a significant body of conservative Jews
ran with us story and fought on the basis of it. They certainly encouraged people to
fight on the basis of it and the whole war scroll from Iran very clearly indicates that
there would be a series of battles and the battle would only be won when there would be this messianic
return and they would expect at that time for all the promises in the Old Testament to become
fulfilled and one of those promises included the bones gaining their flesh from Ezekiel and people
rising from the dead. Daniel said that the righteous, that's Tim Kumran, the righteous, the
righteous will rise in their lot at the end of days. So they viewed it that every Hebrew warrior,
every righteous warrior from the past, Joshua himself, King David, King Saul, every single
righteous saint from the past would rise up at that time because all the righteous would stand
in their lot at the end of their days and the angels would come down and this is where Dr.
Esmer refers to the other world when the universe is merged, when the kingdom of heaven and the
kingdom of earth merge together into one kingdom. So it really is an eschatological,
apocalyptic drama that where the universe itself will change its very nature and all the hidden
worlds will merge with the the unhidden world and will all become one happily ever after. Now
because that didn't happen we can say categorically it was a failure. So there's no question about
that Jesus was a failure. So what do you do with that failure? When Jesus didn't rise after 40 years
for them they lost the war and most of them lost their lives as well. So that was the end of it.
What was left of their movement was lacking all the teachers, they were all slain. You had them
scattered to the forewinds and their mystical ideas of heavenly ascent ended up becoming
newly transformed into a developing Gnosticism and secret mystery ideas that were changing every
generation and each generation becoming a little more extreme. You know is it seven levels in the
universe or is it twelve levels or is it forty nine or is it seven times forty nine or seven times
forty nine times twelve or how many of them there might be and you need a password for every level
and you're going to meet a new Archon guarding the intersection between this level and the other.
It just got more and more complex as the Gnostic mysticism grew. Now that that's very complex
and I can see um I could see something with what you're saying being the case. My question is this
the Gospels okay and this is this is something I I don't know if you've done any research on
preterism the idea that the fulfillment did happen and it did take place it just did not happen
the way that I guess most people suspect it was supposed to happen. The Gospels portray
that Jesus this this character in like the the gospel Matthew let's just take Matthew for a second.
He talks about some of them standing there will not taste death until they see the sentiment
coming in this kingdom and um much is that yeah and it and it appears he's relating this to the
temple he's relating this to like the coming of the Son of Man and when we read the Gospels it
appears that the judgment that is actually taking place on the temples actually coming from him
and his father so to speak uh it's the idea that he's coming to judge the wicked um the Gospels
flip it you know what I mean they flip it around like it makes it makes this kumaran sect you're
talking about look bad and it makes the Hellenized look good let's praise the Roman Centurions let's
you know all the Hellenized so my question is do you suspect I mean obviously we don't think
that that literally happened um but do you suspect that they wrote a victorious message
by presupposing a invisible Jesus concept and applying it to this return and saying he came
with the Romans and it ties in with Paul and kind of it's a Pauline Christ Christology if that
makes sense do you think that's what's going on here well it depends on who you meant by your
reference of they uh you mean the Pauline Christians or New Testament writers or the kumaran community
the kumaran community definitely didn't uh uh take the New Testament perspective at all uh
they they were uh expecting the kingdom to occur within their lifetime and in their
time and space that it was going to be a real event in the real world and that the other world
that we can't see would become part of our real world when it did happen uh we can see indications
of this in the Lord's Prayer incidentally the Gospel of Philip cites the Lord's Prayer and in
the context that fits the idea of the king concept because he he says and I'll just prayer phrase it
if I can't find the exact quote the however I do know I put it in a footnote here so
here it is got it okay this is from the Gospel of Philip 55 chapter 55 verses 33 to 36 it says
and the Lord would not have said my father who is in heaven that's in Matthew 16 unless he had
had another father but he would have simply said my father well I say my father in heaven if you
don't have if you don't have another father to distinguish it from if you've only got your
father in heaven and you don't have any other father then you just say my father but if you
have to distinguish which father is it is it your earthly father or your heavenly one then you
actually have you obviously have both and you have to distinguish it by saying which is which
so the father the in heaven part of the phrase says that Jesus had to distinguish this father
from his earthly father so he had an earthly father of course any thinking human being is
going to say every human had an earth had an earthly father yeah so I studied genetics at
McMaster University when I was studying pre-med and our genetics teacher did say that it was
theoretically possible to have parthenogenesis of virgin birth it is possible for a woman to have
her own ovum reproduce itself and produce a child without having a father they estimate it might be
one in ten billion so it may have happened once or twice in the history of the planet
the uh so not very often but the the genetics completely come from mum so it's always a girl
it can't be a boy it's physically impossible to have a male virgin birth
where does the x chromosome come from you know I mean where's the y chromosome come from we
know where the x from there but where does the y chromosome come from that makes them makes them
a male you can't have it uh uh so that doesn't make sense Jesus had an earthly father we know
that that's required and if he was the king then I I just simply suggest that he must have been the
son of the previous king because that's how monarchies work and so I asked myself which
sect was Jesus most likely a part of and there are only a few sects during the time of Jesus lots
of them after the war but only four of them uh at most according to Josephus for main sects
and it's easy to figure out that Jesus was part of the kumran sect because they match him completely
in one thing after another the uh the idea was sacred meal of bread and wine the idea they believed
angels and resurrection that's not statuses uh they were political and opposed Rome to the point
of xenophobia so that's not the Pharisees who they called secrets after smooth things
there this is this is obviously the the sect that Jesus came from and then you ask yourself well who
did they have for king well Josephus said that there was a sect that was founded by Judah the
Galileans so one of these sects was founded by Judah the Galilean nobody's going to suggest
that Judah the Galilean founded the Pharisees no one's going to suggest that Judah the Galilean
founded the Sadducees but it's not hard to suggest that Judah the Galilean founded the
Dead Sea Scroll Sect and this is confirmed when you read the teachings of the sect and they
match the teachings of Josephus I mean match the teachings of Judah the Galilean as they are described
by Josephus and uh so we know we've got the right sect so if this sect believed that Judah the
Galilean was the king and Judah and Josephus says that Judah had royal pretensions then it makes
sense that Jesus had to be his son if he was the son of the previous king nobody would be saying
Judah the Galilean is the rightful king and this guy over here is the righteous teacher is the year
to that and if he wasn't the son of Judah it just makes sense uh that he would have to be the son
of Judah the Galilean or his claims were bogus now Dr. Eisman said but there's no evidence for
royal dissent for the last 500 years and that's very true he's he's nailed that exactly that is a
legitimate objection to this point of view there but that objection is answered by another observation
that Dr. Eisman made that this was a visionary group and so if you have a visionary group they
don't need genealogical records to find out who the divine king would be they simply need to know
are not or divinely appointed king should be uh then they would they just need to know from God
himself if they're going to have a heavenly ascent experience and talk to God they can just say hey
God well I'm here you mind telling me who is the heir to the throne you know we we need to know
because you did tell us we should always have a king that means we kind of need to know who he is
yeah so uh they would get that confirmation through a visionary confirmation and I don't see a problem
with that and that is 100 percent completely consistent with Dr. Eisman's observations
so let me ask you this if you know and by the way the son of god title that's a that's a royal title
psalm two and psalm 72 talk about the anointing of the of the king of israel and when he's anointed
he is adopted by God as God's own son so uh that the the idea of son of God was not an indication
of divinity but an indication of royalty you speculated that Jesus comes from what seems
most plausible would be a kuma this kumran essene sect now let's speculate further who is who is
jesus and uh and and why if you don't mind me asking you why we're here at this point in this
discussion who is well he would be their uh their unique teacher uh he would be the one
that they expected to rise in within 40 years uh he was the teacher who immediately preceded
the teacher of righteousness that was disputing with paul so who was the teacher of righteousness
that was disputing with paul and dr iceman makes a very persuasive case that that was james the
just and that's the james known as the brother of jesus and another note for uh with respect to
dr iceman and my fellow jewish friends i keep saying jesus because i'm speaking to an audience
of people who read the name jesus in their new testament whenever they're reading their bibles
and so that's how they know the name of jesus i know that he wasn't using the name jesus that we
say he would have been using joshua or yahoshua in hebrew or yeshua in aramaic but it's the same
as the asus of the greek and new testament it's it's the same idea so i'm just saying jesus for
a common term of reference we have to say one and i don't want to say jesus yeshua yahoshua
and every other one every time i say it so just know that i mean joshua when i say jesus and and
not to worry about that and when i say the jesus movement i'm assuming that jesus was part of
the messianic movement in palestine since he was he's claimed to be the messiah so i'm referring to
dead sea school messianic movement when i say the jesus movement let me poke a little deeper on this
at this point james is the brother of jesus according to isaman james is his biological
brother and therefore who's james's father biological father which would be jesus is most likely so
this is where i'm trying to go down hey who is this guy all right all right well that let's get
into that one then uh i do discuss the uh place of the brothers of jesus and i just gotta find it
coming up here yes good all right uh jesus was was a one of a series of teachers and he was said to
have brothers the new testament mentions that he has brothers so i'm just gonna quote from
reconstructing jesus a section here because i have all the references handy and there are a few
references that are involved and they're not all in my head so judo was still alive when jesus was
born so there would have been no question about the legitimacy of jesus's birth if jesus really
was judo's son there would have been no question about you know uh who's the father here judo would
have known the uh the issue was probably transferred to jesus's birth stories in the rewritten version
but it likely had his origin in the events surrounding the birth of james jesus's brother
according to josephus judo the gallean founded the kumran community immediately after harrid
died or at least he founded his second josephus doesn't say the kumran community he just says
he founded a sect and i associate that sect with the kumran community the sectarian group
had already an alternative high priest uh that might have been the historical john the baptist
uh dr iceman speculates uh with regard to a historical person named honan who may have been the
warning the the john of uh the baptist fame and then they had an alternative king that would have
been judo now judo had survived the herodian purge of royal competition by being hidden under another
name yeah he had to be hidden when his father was being crucified so uh king hezekiah uh before
him uh was being crucified and judo the gallean wasn't running around saying uh hi i am judo
ben hezekiah uh ben david king of israel he wasn't right because obviously he wouldn't survive and
like i said the dead sea scroll community was intent on making sure they always had a king
handy so if they got one you don't let him get the air you know they got dad don't let him get the
sun you know so the sun has to be hidden under another name for a while and apparently that's
what would happen with jesus just like his father before him uh judo survived the herodian purge
by being hidden under another name jesus would be hidden as a son of joseph for the same reasons
joseph was obviously well trusted by judo perhaps even an obscure relation when uh when judo died
that was 6 ad jesus would have been 12 years old and that exactly fits the story of i must be about
my father's business uh and at that time mary was most likely pregnant with james and uh that
creates the paternity question for mary's new new husband and that gets reworked into the jesus story
uh the the jesus story is a composite story so it's taking elements uh from many different
characters in making the story uh support of evidence comes from early attestation from
the eosibius and epiphanias that james was actually jesus's brother as the new testament itself
admits several times mark 6 3 galatians 119 and jesus won uh joseph disappears early in the new
testament story he was obviously revered by both jesus and james who each continued throughout his
life to call himself a son of joseph when the new testament refers to jesus as quote the son of
mary and quote that's mark 6 3 right it questions paternity that's important why would you say this
is the son of this woman not say who the dad was that's not how they did it in ancient times he said
to say you're the son of this woman was a direct insult to say god knows who his dad was with that
woman you know so that's that's uh a real snipe so for mark 6 3 to say jesus was the son of mary
anybody in that time would be saying oh that bastard literally you know anyways uh it also
mentions that jesus had four brothers uh named james joseh juda and simon plus sisters logian
or saying 105 of the gospel of thomas notes quote one who knows his father and his mother
will be called the son of a whore and quote so the historical jesus knew who his real father was
at least that's according to uh gospel of thomas which predates our new testament gospels so it's
closer to the source a little more reliable it's obscure but reliable because this was a marriage
arranged for protection of the royal family the boys were known as the sons of joseph but in fact
joseph died without a child of his own this is clear from mary's third marriage which was done
according to jewish leave right law and jewish leave right law if you married a woman and you
died without any heirs then your brother was required by jewish law to take this woman as
wife and raise up an heir for the dead brother and uh jewish leave right law is found in leviticus
uh clophas he's also known as alpheus uh we know that from uh papias's comments uh married mary to
raise up seed for his dead brother joseph the new testament intentionally hides the leadership
role of jesus's brothers after jesus died the new testament exhibits confusion and contradiction
regarding mary anderson's we are told that mary the wife of clophas and jesus's mother mary the
wife supposedly of joseph in the new testament claim are sisters with the same name john 1925
as if you're gonna have two sisters named with the same name you know that that yep see also the
other mary in matthew 2761 and 281 two sisters named mary this absurdity should be a clue uh
furthermore they each have a son named james and the next son named josey that is an extremely
rare name it's only found once among all the thousands of jewish ostuary names the josey
ostuary in the topia tomb yeah and uh the name josey is spelled out for us in mark 15 verse 43
uh 47 and mark 16 verse one hegasipus records a third son as simon and says that joseph and clophas
were brothers that's in usibius church history 3 11 once we have that detail we should be able
to figure it all out only one mary was involved not two sisters with the same name the kids were
the same kids and since one husband was a brother to the previous one it was the situation of
livright marriage that comes from deuteronomy 25 5 to 10 uh the livright marriage was i said
liviticus earlier i'm wrong correcting it now deuteronomy that's why i like to have my text
with my notes because i can't do everything perfectly from memory i in one of our last videos
i cited uh paul mare uh for uh reference to josephus uh and his unusual language that was
similar to paul's writings and it wasn't paul mare who said that it was william wiston so again it's
better when i have my notes because there are a lot of scholars material in my head and i sometimes
swap out names right chris christ if you don't mind me uh probing here we one of the things i
was thinking about when you talked about this burial of of well you're talking about this
osuary and the burial site of what could be the historical jesus how confident are you and i know
that nobody knows with certainty but the probability of you thinking this is the correct one uh
what do you how confident do you feel about this speculation do you think this is the one
this is probably the burial site of the family of jesus the actual historical one i don't see
anything that negates that speculation we can't be a hundred percent sure i'm not omniscient i can't
pontificate and say i know but i i i think there's good reason to have confidence in this tomb
there are a lot of unique features of the tomb that i find very unusual first of all
one of the osuaries has been named miriamini now many legends and traditions say that jesus was
married and many people specify that he married uh mary of migdala uh or mary magdalene that
these two were an item uh mary magdalene was said to become initiated in the gospel of philip
and the gospel of peter and then there is a gospel of mary magdalene as well these come from the
night body library uh they are influenced by a lot of gnostic tradition how reliable are they well
how reliable are any of these sources we don't know uh but it does seem that there were was
reason for associating jesus being married he was jesus was called a rabbi according to the
new testament and to be a rabbi you had to be married and you had to have a son there were 613
rules in the Torah or 613 commandments and the very first commandment was be fruitful and multiply
so if you didn't obey the very first commandment you weren't qualified to be a rabbi and uh so
jesus had to have had a son to be called a rabbi and to have a son you have to have a wife
yes so it only makes sense now that miriamini shows up in the talpia tomb fits all the other
evidence now in addition it's not miriamini it's not mary of migdala the way it's felt in the
new testament which is later it's miriamini the way it's felt in the gospel of philip which is an
earlier document the new testament so they got the earlier more accurate spelling and if somebody
was creating a christian forgery based on the new testament they would have spelled this name wrong
this name is spelled pregnant then on that very same ostuary is a unique polyglot uh
uh marking it's polyglot meaning speaker in multiple languages the there's written in greek
the word mara but mara is not a greek word it's an aramaic word it's a feminized form of the word
mar which is their equivalent for teacher or rabbi uh in the greek orthodox church you still have
their rabbis are called mara samuel mara this mar that it's like well this one this person was
apparently recognized as a jewish teacher and it was put mara but if you were a greek reader
you would look at mara that's not a greek word i don't know what that means and if you're an aramaic
only reader you wouldn't you wouldn't be able to read these greek letters and know what they meant
so it would take a polyglot someone who who read greek and understood aramaic to know what this
marking meant so again it's a covert indication of a role uh a rabbi type role for a woman this
fits the jesus movement if it's a kumran movement which had women in the graves in the kumran site
so there were a few women in there who were uh taking uh extra steps towards leadership roles
and educational roles and and being part of uh this sect and the training that they got at kumran
so this fits that part of it and that is very very persuasive then you have that jesus has the son
juda son of of jesus there that fits like i said before they wouldn't allow the king to go public
until his air was secured so he had to have had an air uh plus the fact that his son was named juda
fits so many other things because that came the name of the villain in the rewrite uh it also fits
with the idea since jesus's uh baby son is in his oscar is in the tomb and apparently he's only
about six months old it may be that they found him obviously he didn't grow up to be the air
it may be that juda was betrayed so instead of the new testament story of judas doing a betrayal
it may have been that juda was betrayed yeah so once again another twist okay so so now we we
talked about the real life real world we we exited the text for a second there to kind of talk about
i guess you'd say real archaeological stuff let's go back into fantasy land for a minute
because i want before we do let me give a surprise revelation about the top of your tomb
that nobody else knows okay okay absolutely nobody else knows you're gonna hear it first here this is
internet news okay let's do it the top of your tomb i wanted to be declared an archaeological site at
a time when it had not yet been declared such and i want to uh get financial backing for this venture
before i started approaching uh the israeli antiquities authorities because nothing speaks
louder than money when you have to get important uh decisions made and if you don't have the financial
backing behind it you're not going to go anywhere with it so i wanted to settle that first so i went
to a very rich jewish friend of mine uh here in hamilton and i pitched the idea of him financing
this as an archaeological dig and i got him to commit one million dollars
the uh and that's that's a big step so now time to proceed in getting the archaeologist
getting it set up i didn't have to the university of north carolina had already done the work james
taber was involved in synta yakubovitchi and those were two of the characters that i would have picked
for my team if i was the one putting it together so i was completely happy with where it was what
was being done and it was all already being done ahead of time i didn't have to do anything
and my friend didn't have to spend his money either so uh it all worked out very well but one
of the reasons my friend was willing to put up that amount of money is because when i approached him
on this i spooked him it he felt like it was a a karmic kind of meant to happen request uh
because he grew up in israel and he grew up before the building in israel uh over the
talpia tomb had been developed so when he was a nine-year-old boy he played hide and seek with
his cousin in the talpia tomb and while they were playing hide and seek on one day they couldn't
find his cousin where did she go a little thin slip of a girl where did she go can't find her
nobody could find her she found a good hiding spot the hiding spot was a little nook and cranny
in one corner of this tomb that she found stares to a lower level in the talpia tomb
in the lower level that they dragged a rabbi down there to investigate there was a skeleton
with a gold signet ring there this may be the tomb of the royal family lines in israel
the uh with that signet ring it is an untouched unrated tomb uh just waiting for exploration
but now it's buried beneath all that construction and all they can do is get a camera on the end of a
cord going down to take a peek at it at this stage but they if they'd gotten in to do the
proper excavation they may well have found that there's this other level that my friend and his
cousin had discovered in the talpia tomb so that should be big news so i think the tomb does have
potential to be the real tomb plus the symbol on the talpia tomb here's the talpia tomb entrance
and can you see that okay can you see the uh right up here at the top of the tomb
there's a kind of a symbolic carving there and it looks like a kind of the roof top of a house
and then there's a circle underneath it that that shape is called a chevron they have that chevron
shape may well represent some sort of symbolic meaning i mean it was put there for some reason
they obviously did a lot of work to make that carving in there it had to have some significance
now scholars have been saying well if this was the tomb of jesus and he was supposed to be from
bethlehem and and he's being buried in jerusalem usually if someone's been buried from outside
the locality they put the locality they came from why didn't they do that here and i'm just
speculating a wild speculation what if they did what if that symbol tells us where they came from
there may i suggest that the chevron shape represents house and that the circle
represents bread think of a bagel the jews in in their day in the first century they would
bake the bread in a circle because when they put it in the oven it would you cook into the middle
more effectively and you get more even cooking so that's why the whole bagel shape for bread
was invented for the old fashioned oven styles there so this looks like a symbol for bread now
if it if those two complete speculations happen to be true then you've got house of bread
house of bread in hebrew it's bethlehem bethlehem does that make sense
so it's entirely possible that's just a pure speculation but that's a possible meaning for
the talpyat tomb symbol and i find that to be convincing yeah i definitely i definitely think
you're on to something with that for sure i i definitely do and uh there's there's something
there whether that's him or not it could be part of the same community or same type but
the odds start to go up the closer you get to the community that they're part of you know
well this little observation they found the ostuary of simon of syrene who we know
was a follower of jesus from new testament he was buried in a jewish cemetery that specifically
were uh followers of the sect and on his ostuary was scratched the same chevron and dot symbol
as on the talpyat tomb now is that coincidence uh i don't yeah i don't think so now let me let me
ask you this can we go back into fantasy land for one minute because uh i think uh the gospels
they they they gradually deified this guy and they're definitely not of the kumron sect that
are part of the writing of these um i i believe that the writings that we have in the new testament
are the opposition why deify why deify jesus and what would be what do you think the motivating
factor for deifying or making this guy the messiah for the opposition uh why would they do that if
he's a historical character who portrayed the opposite of what they actually stood for do you
have a reason or motivating factor behind that yes i do as a matter of fact i'm seeking for my uh
copy of maria horgans writings charles berth
and just okay we'll get to it
uh first of all jesus as a messianic king was a political figure and he was so effective
in his politics that according to tastis and uh uh other historians the majority of jews were
believing in it that required a demythologization to disarm the messianic movement like like iceman
said the whole new testament was there as a counter to demilitarize and debunk the messianic
movement the uh now yes okay uh i'm going to cite a passage from um this is pastoreen maria p
hargan uh kuman interpretations of biblical books there and in it there's a passage these are
descriptions of the messianic uh king that the kuman set it believed would be uh
they believed that he would uh be a ruler of the world in fact this will speak for itself
and it refers to a branch now i'm i'm quoting uh from another translation it's going to say a
chute the word there is net sir it means the branch uh there are a lot of by the way i'm talking
about translation words uh a lot of roman catholic translators like uh martinez uh in his book the
Dead Sea Scrolls translations he will intentionally use the least common word uh and least recognizable
word so christians don't make certain associations with key theological terms so he won't if he runs
across the word derrick like your name uh in the hebrew he's not going to call it the way like we
know in the new testament followers of the way so he'll say a road or path or any other translation
except the way and he'll translate it differently every time he comes across it so that you don't
recognize it's a key word being repeated uh so that's very very unfair uh that way uh he does
this too with uh the word mysteries mysteries is a key term mystery religions we've dealt with you
know how important that was well he would say secrets you know keep secret you know and until
you don't make the association with mysteries you know just uh that's unfair that's not fair play
they're trying to cover it up discreetly so and here's a translation there this is from uh
good question where's it from she's citing maripi horton is is citing
all right the pestering man which one i have to go back to the beginning of her citation okay the
fork you uh pester on isaiah from cave four and it says uh
there will come forth a chute from the stump of jessey and a branch will grow out of his roots
and on him will arrest the spirit of yaoi a spirit of wisdom and understanding a spirit of council
and might a spirit of knowledge and fear of yaoi and his delight will be in fear of yaoi neither
will he judge by appearances nor will he decide on hearsay but he will judge the lowly or again
the lowly the poor with righteousness and he will decide with fairness for the poor of the earth
he will notice again poor of the earth this is another christian type title that they're referring
to and he will smite the earth with the rod of his mouth and with the breath of his lips he will
slay the wicked righteousness will be uh the belt around his waist waist and faithfulness the belt
around his loins the interpretation of the matter concerns the scion of david uh who will take uh
his stand at the end of days now that's a quote from daniel that i said before you know the how
the righteous will stand in their lot at the end of days that's how they interpret it who will take
his his stand at the end of days to save israel and to exterminate his enemies and god will
sustain him with a mighty spirit and god will give him a throne of glory a holy crown and garments
of variegated stuff and god will place a scepter in his hand and over all the nations he will rule
and may god and all the peoples his sword will judge and when it says neither will he judge by
appearance nor will he decide on hearsay the interpretation of his as they teach him so will
he judge and according to their command gap with him one of the priests will go out and out of his
hands uh gap all right so you've got some fragment of text here but the very very clear that they're
talking about a king a sign of david he'll exterminate his enemies he'll have a throne of glory as a
holy crown he'll have a scepter and uh this is all out of the dead sea schools so you can understand
why i had to be patient when we had an earlier reference king what king from
dr asin allow the king in the dead sea schools here is very very clear mr lawson yeah you you
you hit the nail on the head in my opinion you bring up some very fascinating points um i i just
have one question i guess on my mind because everybody appeals to authority so often um that
they uh i don't know they they kind of depend on these scholars who've done a lot of research
and you and isamin are so close and and seeing that there was a real militant very nationalistic
movement going on as well as others who were in the roman provenance position um brandon uh scholar
brandon that from history uh he's supposed as a roman provenance position and your position
sounds very similar to this my my question is where in all of this does you and this what you're
proposing and and um bar airman dr airman disagree why is he not seeing what you guys are seeing
and saying you know what this is the jesus here what is what's going on in your opinion
i can't tell you what's going on in dr airman's mind uh all i can say is i agree with him there's
a historical root and i think dr airman needs to read my work i think he could be edified
and uh so here's a copy of brandon's jesus and the zealots the uh now when you open the front
page it looks like this is one of my one of the library books that i went ahead and demolished
this one came from mcmash university's library uh i i end up paying for it so i mean i did buy
the books i mean it's not like i stole them but the uh but there's my indexing of the book
can you is that readable on the camera okay you'll get an idea of some of the things that
are included in jesus and zealots so if i just read my index without the references it's uh
uh rain symbolism jesus uh james jesus brother uh jesus expelled from roman 49 to 50 c e james
the disciple peter 40 year period zealot victory simon and jacob the moon over the temple i don't
know if that's an easy reference are you familiar with uh what happened uh during one pass over how
one of the roman soldiers and the fortress ventonia which looked down on the temple
pulled his pants down and mooned the spectators during during their uh Passover celebration
and there was such a riot in Jerusalem that the roman the the romans in charge had to crucify that
soldier yeah so that's uh it was the only way they were going to get peace because they were all
been doing right there the revolt against Rome would have started right then if they hadn't
hadn't done that so that's dealt with in 104 uh book of acts unreliable high priest versus low
priesthood a gripper rewriting zealots sacrifices docephus as a collaborator uh weaknesses and
marks gospels uh historical jesus absent and falling literature um money got falling the door
with your early church uh Gentiles as dogs uh on avoiding Gentiles suffering for told
escalotic eschatological missions and future resurrection paul versus the Jerusalem church
the temple veil story is mythos uh the charger is jesus regarding the destruction of the temple
claims uh king of the jews idea is due to the gaolian sons uh that's just one page the list goes on
there's so many things that sound like uh the new testament things uh simon the zealot and then
den of lesdai uh den of thieves that's uh a phrase that was used against uh the zealots they were
called uh lesdai or the zealots sorry uh let's see temple light boy you had something you want to
yeah yeah i wanted this okay so you've got your covering a lot here yeah and and in no need to
continue i think everybody i think everybody gets the gist and look we're not going to end here so
pretty much what i'm asking is it anybody who's watching this that finds this interesting and
understands that you're onto something they need to get your pdf they can uh they can pay pal me
and uh email me let me know i'll send over your pdfs to them uh the only one that they've got to pay
20 well if you can give a decent donation for the the what is it cannabis sacrament
yeah you know if anybody puts in over 20 bucks seriously just give them all the documents just
give them all that i want i want people to get this material and if you if if you can't afford
anything then uh you know i want you to have i really want people to have this but i don't want
to be a robot it's just a lot of work you've done a lot of work and and we want to you know
obviously i'm i'm trying to help with that as well so be sure to get it and check it out everybody
but if you have a limited budget for the people who are watching here put your money in to support
this show and if you have any leftover then buy my documents you know and if you've got money for
both all the better well we're going to be having you back on law mr. Lawson so my question is close
out with something tell them how they can get a hold of you we're going to wrap things up
okay uh last one is uh another quote from the scrolls this one giving an idea of the
murkaba mysteries and showing how the whole idea of tongues of fire which ended up being part of
the pentecost idea the original context to where that really came from it was really part of a
mystical vision the uh this is a quote from uh uh the k-4 copy of enok and it's from column
column six and we're going to be starting at around verse 19 and following right this was
revealed to me in vision behold in the vision the clouds were calling me the mist shouted to me and
the thunders and lightnings urged me in the visions the winds caused me to fly they lifted me up on
high they took me to a place and took me and placed me in the heavens i entered them until i reached
the wall of a building made with hailstones in a circle so as to be completely surrounded by tongues
of fire which began to alarm me and to gap i entered through these tongues of fire until i reached a
huge house made of hailstones the wall of this house were like stone planks they were all of
snow and the floor was made of snow the roof was like thunders and lightnings and between them
chair beam of fire and sky was of water a burning fire surrounded all the walls and circling them
completely and the doors were burning fire i entered this house which was as hot as fire and
as cold as snow in it there were none of the pleasures of life fear surrounded me and trembling
clutched me i was shivering and shaking and fell on my face and a vision was revealed to me this
sounds a lot like that other vision we talked about earlier we quoted uh where the shivering
shake and happen first and then comes the vision that's like the murk the the mysteries and the
loses right there behold i saw another door which opened in front of me and another house which was
larger than this all of it made of tongues of fire all of it was so much better than the other in
grander glory of the majesty they cannot describe he was grander in majesty his floor was a fire
its upper part was of thunders and lightnings and his roof a burning fire it was revealed to me and
in it i saw a raised throne uh it carries on uh further on to say and they shouted to the lamb
oh wait a minute before i go that first goes i saw another huge place with valleys with abundant
water in which there were sweet-smelling reeds and it uses cona there a sweet-smelling cona there
and then i saw trees from which issued the resin called saruh and galbenum uh
when in these trees there comes from them a fragrant aroma and when these are ground up they
are superior to any fragrance yeah interesting isn't then it goes on says they shouted to the
lamb which was at second which was in their midst we are unable to be in front of the lord
then the lamb who led them turned and climbed for a second time to the top of the rock
but the flock began to go blind and move off the path of the way which he had indicated to them
without the lamb realizing these matters the lord of the flock grew extremely angry against the
flock and the lamb knew it and came down from the top of that rock and came to the flock and
found most of them blind and astray and when he saw them he began to get alarmed in front of them
trying to i think they they began to get alarmed in front of him trying to return to their pens
the lamb took other lambs with them and came to the flock they butchered all the strays
yeah so what a what a vision that is so here we've got a lamb like person we've got person
from the throne and this glorious description like fire and shining things and and what things
that are clear and and it's a clearly uh an ecstatic visionary experience and it's one of
the murk of the mysteries obviously he's in the throne room and uh yeah but then it goes into
a vision of a lamb scolding a recalcitrant flock flock and slaying the strays so this is it gives
a different image of where it all came from this was obviously uh a pentecostal style vision uh
during pentecost they had their initiations at kumran and those initiates with the highest ranks
got a special meal and got a new entheogenic experience like that one and this will be the
kind of stuff they will be writing down from these visions uh very difficult to interpret some of
their uh rambling and so a lot of people have abandoned even trying but you can piece together
some clues about the way they thought of things because of what they mentioned during these
these visionary experiences and uh one of the things they mentioned is that there will be a
coming king and he'll save everybody and they end up getting disappointed in that and with their
disappointment they shut up about about their messianic uh visions and uh kept it to themselves
after that point and it only left paul's version to gain strength and reattain dominance paul's
paul's version uh declined for a while after paul's death dr eskia brandon assumes it to paul
probably died around 55 c e uh the claims that he was there holding the cloak while they stoned
james was probably an interpolation or uh just fancy story writing because everybody knew james
and paul hated each other uh but paul probably died around 55 c e because there had to be enough
time for paul's writings to go into decline so they could get into a state of great disrepair
so if paul gone the james union church uh was able to exert control throughout asia minor
and bring paul into disrepute and his writings into neglect uh but when james died in 62 c e uh
that would have been minimized to somewhat and then after the war when the whole movement was gone
it was just paul's asia minor churches are remaining and they regained their their fame and
they started to collect paul's writings uh best they could uh some of the writings like second
chrithians uh seemed to be the scraps of three separate pauline documents put together into one
there's a few contradictions in there that don't exactly the figures are written at different
times apparently uh so we've got a really poorly preserved corpus paulinum uh and so there had to
be a period when paul was in neglect and if that only makes sense uh if paul died before the roman
conquering of the movement because paul obviously was restored after that but there wouldn't have
been a period in neglect uh paul's writings if the jewsland church had already been destroyed
and there was no way the jewsland church could have dominated over paul when he'd already been gone
so paul had to have gone first the lord's prayer being referenced uh and spoken about uh
my father who is in heaven shows that matthew uh wasn't the only source for the lord's prayer
matthew hadn't been written yet so apparently uh this author uh knew of the lord's prayer from
his own source and that's independent attestation that the lord's prayer may well have been original
to the historical jesus and i find it very significant that when they do refer to the kingdom
there the only place where the lord's prayer talks about a king or a kingdom they do say
it's on earth that i will be done on earth so it wasn't earthly kingdom and i think that's
important to realize that this was uh a real royal uh concept the way we would understand
royalty today and it wasn't just some heavenly spiritual kingdom that they're talking about
so all this kingdom idea according to the lord's prayer that kingdom is where god's will is done
and where does it happen well happens where the kingdom is on earth anyways i really appreciate
you joining us here on myth vision and you bring up some fascinating points i love the angle you
have me always tug a war i always get tugged back and forth between mythicism and historicism and i
just kind of i see what you're saying and what you're saying makes a lot of sense someone far more
depth to these things may be able to see something and go well they've got to answer these things for
me whatever um those questions write them down in the comments if you if you like what you hear
please join in the comment section you will see mr lawson will come and comment he'll try and answer
your questions and be sure to get the pdfs support this program um be sure to like subscribe and if
you can help contribute become a monthly contributor i mean go down there and we have patreon and we
paypal that'll help us in uh in trying to bring scholars on so we really appreciate that thank you
for joining me mr lawson we will be seeing you again for sure and thanks a lot no problem and
i'll i think i'll put a uh a link in the comments description a link to some of my documents you
can get online so that you some of me don't have to order uh well you order these other ones anyways
get the other pdfs but uh there are some that i can put links to uh such as uh why paul's mythologization
of the jesus story was political that would be a good one uh that would help people understand a
lot of it and you got a lot of the sources there that way so thank you everybody thank you derek
thank you and thank you for helping us out have a good one
