Like water.
Now you put water into a cup.
It becomes the cup.
You put water into a bottle, it becomes the bottle.
You put it in a teapot, it becomes the teapot.
Now water can flow, or it can crash.
Be water, my friend.
Water.
Water.
Water.
Water.
Water.
Water.
Water.
Water.
Water.
Water.
Water.
Water.
Water.
Water.
Water.
Water.
Water.
Water.
Water.
Water.
Water.
Water.
Water.
Water.
Water.
Water.
Water.
Water.
An accomplished writer in atheism, philosophy, ancient history, and many other fields.
His books include Sensing Goodness Without God on the Historicity of Jesus and Science
Education in the Early Roman Empire.
He's got a website, richardcarrier.info.
And there you can access his Twitter page, his Facebook, all of his books.
He does a blog and he teaches monthly courses online.
That's pretty interesting.
Today, we're going to be talking about his work on the historicity or lack thereof of Jesus.
We'll talk about his work and later in the show, he'll share some personal reflections
that guided him on his present path.
Everybody, please welcome Dr. Richard Carrier.
Now give it just a second here, Luther, because we might be having, let me see, 1562.
Yes, let's see what we have here.
I think I'm writing him and communicating with him at this moment, trying to make sure
that he has called into the show and he's in.
But yeah, Richard Carrier is interesting.
He's an interesting guy because as I've been researching on the historicity of Jesus, you
know, I stumble across him and he was known for debating guys like, you know, Dr. William
Lane Craig, Craig Evans, Trent Horn, Doug Hamp, and Dave Lehman.
They did like a tag team match on that one.
And they've done a lot.
He is a big debater.
He's done lots and lots of debates.
So one that everybody's been wanting is Bart Ehrman.
Well, that's right.
It's right.
And so he has a rare gift for clarity in speaking and writing.
And so we'll experience that.
We got kind of a special format today, right, Derek?
Tell us a little bit about that.
Well, we, what we did is we did a hypothetical debate format where what we have is we know
that Dr. Bart Ehrman, brilliant guy, he's debated Robert Price, Dr. Robert Price, and
see Dr. Robert Price and Dr. Carrier, they are both mythicists.
And there was, you know, this debate that took place, mythicist Milwaukee are the ones
who hosted it.
And by the way, I want to make sure I plug them because they're the ones that we are
borrowing the audio clips from Bart Ehrman's debate with Dr. Price.
And okay, let me see.
Dr. Carrier said he's calling from eight nine three.
So let's see what we have already.
I am trying to make sure I've got the correct number here before I pull him in.
So let me see if he's done that.
Yeah.
Go ahead, Luther.
If you don't mind giving some thought on Dr. Carrier while I try to get this figured
out here.
Right.
Well, you know, I talked about his extraordinary gift for clarity in speaking and writing and
putting the whole historicist mythicist debate into perspective in a way that's really easy
to understand the way he frames it, I think is something that our listeners are going
to come away with as as striking about him.
And I want to talk about some some broad questions after we do the mock debate about
what is a myth and what how do myths function in ancient societies and what function might
they serve today?
We don't talk an awful lot about myth.
And so we want to hear his insights on that.
It seems like a basic question, but it gets skipped over a lot in these kinds of discussions.
So we're really excited about that.
And I mean, there's so many things we can talk about in relation to him.
He is one of the three leading mythicist scholars.
Most people agree, along with Dr. Robert Price, and then maybe not so much a scholar, but
as a popular mythicist author, David Fitzgerald, wouldn't you agree, Derek?
Absolutely.
Let's see if this is Richard here, Richard, go ahead and see if we can, if we can hear
you.
Hello, am I here?
There you go.
Richard, you're here.
Welcome.
Yeah.
Thanks for having me on.
So Richard's, Richard's not a myth after all.
Okay, we're good to get out of this.
We have evidence that you didn't.
I love it.
Indeed.
Well, let's, let's start with this.
We have a lot of fans, obviously, of your work.
I am a huge fan.
Luther's a huge fan.
We're blown away by the arguments because it seems like there's this overwhelming slant
of scholarship saying, you guys are crazy.
Why would you even think that?
And so once you consider these things and listen to people like you and Price, who really
allowed us to say, let's cast doubt on a historical understanding here for a second, because there's
just so much evidence.
We had to put a hypothetical debate together.
And who better than Bart Ehrman from the historicist position?
You know?
Yeah, I agree.
Um, yeah, it's astonishing that he won't, he won't debate me on this.
He considers him done debating on this because he debated Price and that was it.
So.
Wow.
It's only if we gun, Richard, we handed you a present today.
We brought Irvin to you.
And so we're looking forward to hearing what you have to say.
We know you'll enlighten us.
You bet.
Yeah.
Before we get started, because I'm going to go ahead and jump into round one, because
we want to hear him and then we're going to listen to you.
It's hypothetical debate.
You're a totally different flavor.
I'm going to put it that way than Price.
Price is coming at it differently.
Yes, y'all conclude very, very similar things in many cases, but sometimes very different.
And that's why I like listening to both of you, because Robert can go on a topic and
he's so poetic, you know, whereas you're so clear in your language, you're concise,
you're straight to the point.
In fact, I feel like if you were in a fight, you're chopping the jugular.
You're not playing around.
I'm very analytical.
That's true.
Whereas Price does like he's erudite, so you get a lot of interesting, fascinating stuff
when you hear him talk.
But yeah, I am the analytical one who's very concerned with the logical structure of arguments
and clearing away all of the uncertainties and getting right to what is the actual issue
here.
You know, Richard, many have said that, but you're speaking and you're writing just has
extraordinary clarity.
And you make these arguments just so easy to grasp.
And I'm looking forward to getting to that, not only with Bart Ehrman, but in the questions
that follow that we have for you.
Yeah, that's always my goal.
You should be.
Ladies and gentlemen, I would plug all of these websites here, but Dr. Carrier has brought
it to my attention that we really want to check him out on Patreon because he's constantly
blogging and updating information with the most modern stuff that we've learned from
a variety of fields.
He brings it to the table, a lot of different flavors in his research, and he pretty much
lives off that.
So, guys, we're all about survival, if you will.
And I've got a little theme song before we get started here.
I've got bills, I've got a pay, so I'm gonna work, work, work every day, I've got mouths,
I've got a fee, so I'm gonna make sure everybody eats, I've got bills, all these bills following
my status, they ain't looking like a mouth.
Anyway, let's get right into it, round one here, and here's Bart Ehrman.
This is obviously an important issue for you, and it should be an important issue for everybody.
I mean, if Jesus didn't exist, that would be a big deal.
There are two billion people in the world today who worship Jesus.
Christianity completely changed Western civilization.
There has been nothing like Christianity that has affected such change in the history of
the West.
Nothing.
This is actually the topic of the book that I'm working on now, is how Christianity took
over the Roman Empire, but realize that Christianity had not become the religion of the West.
We simply would not have the cultural history we've had, whether you're thinking in terms
of art or literature or music or architecture, our lives would be incalculably different.
If Jesus never lived, this is a religion based on a myth.
I myself am not a believer in Jesus, but I do believe in history, and I believe it's
important to know what actually happened in the past, even if we would prefer that something
Okay, so real quick, sounds to me he believes in history.
So he's kind of changed his views on believing in Jesus to he believes in history.
I figure we'd start there.
Go ahead and comment on what you think there, if you don't mind.
Well, I mean, he hasn't gotten to an argument yet, right?
So there's kind of like the suggestion that how could a mythical religion have changed
the world?
But he actually agrees that Christianity itself as a religion is a myth, right?
He agrees the resurrection is mythical.
He agrees like a lot of the teachings about Jesus being God and stuff is mythical.
So he already agrees with us that a mythical religion based on myths that aren't true,
transformed Western society.
Now, actually, we could do a whole debate on whether and to what extent Christianity
actually did transform Western society.
I think he's wildly wrong about a lot of that.
But that's not what we're here to debate today.
Wow.
Okay.
And look, you're right, there's no argument there.
But I figure round one would be perfect in saying it sounds to me that Bart is saying
he believes in history, almost like someone who just, you know, he it has to be history
for him.
It almost seems like that's kind of my hunch there is that he believes in it.
So we're going to go in around to let's flip it before we go into before we go in around
to Richard, tell us a little something about the secular function of myth in ancient societies
and and why that's not necessarily a bad thing.
I mean, what function might myth even serve today?
Tell us about that for a moment.
Well, I mean, myth can be used for good or ill.
I think in we've changed the way we approach things in modern society.
Now what we used to do with myth, we do with fiction.
So we're actually correctly categorizing it as fiction, but we can study its symbolic
meaning and it's the value messages and the things that it's trying to say about society
and humanity without taking it as being a true story.
So we actually got to the point where that's widely and commonly the case.
It's not it's not a difficulty for us.
But we also have myths that are that we believe in as fact, even though they're false.
I mean, not just urban legends, but all political ideologies have these myths about what has
happened in history that they insist are true and because they prove that their ideology
is correct.
But they're still myths.
They're not true, actually.
So we still do have this challenge of distinguishing historical fact from myth because myth is myths
are generally constructed throughout history, even in antiquity.
They're constructed to symbolize and represent and model the world and human psyche and to
communicate values about how we want the world to be or how we think the world is and
why certain institutions should exist and where they came from.
They're this structure about values and social constructs that are told through stories.
So we get this like Jesus outright says, like the parables, right?
He says secretly to his disciples, you know, I tell these stories, but they're not really
literally true.
The meaning of the story is actually what they symbolize, the values inherent in them
and the message inherent in them.
And what Jesus is doing there, this is in Mark chapter 4, Jesus is actually really explaining
what myth was, what its function was in society, why it was constructed, and he's kind of
cluing us in that the whole gospel of Mark is itself a parable, an extended parable in
which Jesus is just the main character who is used to represent values and messages about
society and the world.
And it doesn't have to be true for that to be the case, but it's more impactful if you
sell it as true.
That's why with political ideologies based on their own mythologies, they need their
myths to be true and that sort of impact we have explicit mentions like even origin,
the third century Christian theologian pointed out that we need to convince the masses that
the myths are true even though we, the elite, know they aren't.
Because the masses are too uneducated or too simple to grasp this idea that a fictional
story can contain factual content about how the world should be or how the world is.
And since that's too complicated for them, we don't have time to educate them before
they die, we'll just sell them the literal truth because then they'll believe it and
then they'll be molded, they will actually do engage and correct behaviors based on their
beliefs in these myths, which is really Plato's Republic, right?
That's the whole argument of Plato's Republic is to create myths that will influence people
to behave a certain way and just never tell them that the myths are false and like suppress
anyone who would suggest that they're not true or tries to change them and then only
the guardians, the ultimate elite, will know that the myths are false and then engage in
trying to protect them and of course he's describing the Vatican essentially hundreds
of years before it was formed, but that's always been a social function of myth.
Even today we have that function going on for ideological myths and so that's what
Christianity is in and of itself.
Lucid, that touched on something there, hints, not mark chapter four, but let's get into round
two gentlemen.
Right.
First thing I want to say is the first argument that I find completely unconvincing that some
of you have heard and maybe have found convincing is the idea that Jesus of Nazareth could not
have existed because Nazareth did not exist. There was no Nazareth.
Oh, this one I can easily dismiss because I agree with him on this. That argument is both the premise
is questionable and it's also a non sequitur so that that is not a valid argument for the
nonexistence of Jesus.
Straight to the point.
Right. Okay, we can move on Derek.
Yeah, we can. We can move right on. I mean that that makes perfect sense and I think we all agree
with that. So round three. Yeah.
Second, second myth is this argument that people make is that if Jesus life as described in the
Gospels follows a certain set patterns that you can see in Old Testament stories or in myths about
dying and rising gods or in tales told about other religious figures that if there's the
stories are in these set traditions then probably Jesus didn't exist. I've never found this persuasive
either. Most historical figures that we have accounts of have legendary tales told about them
and set patterns. That was true for George Washington. It's true for Julius Caesar. It's
true for the founder of Hasidic Judaism, the Baal Shem Tov who allegedly could heal the sick
and cast out demons and raise the dead and be transfigured before his followers.
Does that mean he didn't exist? No, everybody knows the Baal Shem Tov existed. There's no
doubt about that. I could exist. I could illustrate this by giving a point after point. Let me just
give you one more detailed illustration. Octavian. Caesar Augustus, the first Roman emperor.
Literally, he was allegedly the Son of God. He was miraculously born. He was revered by,
as the Son of God, by his devotees. He ascended to heaven. He is a divine being worthy of worship.
There are all these tales told about him. Does that mean he didn't exist? No, it means that when
you tell stories about him, you tell these stories in certain ways. This is typically what happens
with important figures from the past. Famous people are told in terms of stereotypes. We have our
own stereotypes. We have the rags to riches story. We have the politician's sexual exploits story.
We have the divine savior story. The fact that stories are molded to a model has no bearing on
whether the person actually existed or not. Now let me get to my pause.
Okay, so this is a good example because here this is why when Bart Ehrman has been highly
resistant to learning anything about logic, he even mocked the very suggestion that he's using
logical fallacies rather than paying attention to the fact that he is using logical fallacies.
Historians have a responsibility to understand logic because their arguments are only valid if
they have logical structure to them, correct logical structure, and you can't claim to know
that your arguments are logical if you don't even know what logic is. Here what he is committed
is a fallacy called affirming the consequence. It's a well-known, very basic fallacy. He's basically
saying some historical figures have been heavily mythologized. Therefore, all mythologized figures
were historical figures. Notice that that's not correct. You can't flip it the other way around.
So that's actually a logical fallacy. So he's reached an incorrect conclusion based on a screw
up of logic basically because what we really want to know is if we put into a basket, we collect
together, let's say put into a hat, all the heavily mythologized people and throw them all in there.
And I think if you sat down with him, Ehrman would have to admit that some of them are not historical
and we would also admit with him that some of them are historical. So the question is,
when you throw them all into a hat, all of these heavily mythologized people,
how many of them are historical? In other words, what is the frequency? How commonly is it the case
that when someone is heavily mythologized, they turn out to be an actual historical person rather
than an actually mythical person? And this is the analysis that he's dodging here because he
doesn't understand that this is the actual logic we're looking at. We want to look at the frequency.
How common is this? So you could say all historical figures of a certain type were mythologized,
but what you want to know is of all the mythologized people, how many of them are historical? And
that's a different set, right? So you look at it that way. Now, when you do this analysis,
you throw all the heavily mythologized people into the hat, it turns out most of them are mythical.
In fact, I come up with the conclusion that at best, even at best, one in three are historical.
And of course, that one in three will include the people he's talking about like George Washington
and Alexander the Great and Gaius Caesar and all of this stuff. So all of those examples
go into that one in three, but the other two in three aren't historical. They actually
are mythical people. They're actually usually cosmic beings who returned into historical persons
or something like that, or outright fabricated people. So that means that when you see someone
who's heavily mythologized, you see some new person comes along, let's say John Frum from the
cargo cults or the angel Moroni from Mormonism who claims to be, you know, they claim was a
historical person and not just an angel, but he was a historical person before he became an angel.
When you see all of these, how many of these people, if you see a new one like this,
what is the prior odds? Just before you look at the evidence specifically for that person,
what are the prior odds that they're going to be a historical person like George Washington
or an ahistorical person like Moroni or John Frum? And the odds are two and three against
historicity. Now that doesn't decide the question, but it does mean that this is evidence
against historicity. When someone is heavily mythologized, they tend not to be historical.
That doesn't mean they are not historical. You have to go look at the evidence and you look at
like George Washington and Alexander the Great. The evidence that they were historical is overwhelming
and therefore reverses the conclusion that you get from your prior probability, but we're starting
with evidence against, which is this heavy mythologization. Heavy mythologization, especially
rapid heavy mythologization, usually is indicative of someone who doesn't exist. Now that doesn't
mean they didn't exist, so we have to look at the rest of the evidence. You can't conclude the argument
on just this fact alone, but the fact is this heavy mythologization of Jesus where we have no
ordinary memoirs of him, like we have for George Washington and Alexander the Great,
we have normal non-mythologized histories of them alongside the sort of exaggerations and myths
and legends. We don't have that for Jesus. We have no mundane ordinary history of Jesus.
All we have are the myths. Now that puts us in a difficult situation because how do we determine
that Jesus is an exception to the rule that usually these heavily mythologized people are
mythical? How do we know he's like Alexander the Great and not like Asop, for example? Or Osiris,
it's an even better example. So what do we do there? Well, we've got to look at other evidence
and figure this out, but it might leave us doubting. We just don't know. If he's this heavily
mythologized, a good chance he didn't exist, we need more evidence to actually reverse that
conclusion. And this is where Ehrman is missing that point because he's arguing fallaciously
from the assumption that there are mythologized historical people, therefore Jesus is a mythologized
historical person. And that's not logically valid argument. Well, Richard, one of the problems is
that hypothetical hat you're talking about into which we can put all the mythologized
personages. Hercules, Troy, Dionysus, and Jesus. It seems that when you want to put Jesus into the
hat, he doesn't quite fit so well. The discussion becomes different because, you know, we're talking
about Jesus now. Gather the townspeople with tortures and burn down the castle. So why can't we
discuss Jesus at a personal level, at an institutional level, the same way logically and
rationally as we discuss all the other mythological figures in the hat? That's an interesting point.
Yeah, absolutely right. Even if he existed, right? So like, you still have to be able to analyze him
as a mythical character the same way that you would the myths about George Washington. If you
analyze those myths, you're not taking them literally as historical truth, but you can
still study the myth of George Washington alongside the historical George Washington.
It's just that with Jesus, we have almost no access to the real Jesus. Even if there was a
historical Jesus, we just have nothing, almost nothing to access him with. All we have are the
myths about him. As if all we had were the myths about George Washington. Could we reconstruct
the real George Washington from that? I don't think we'd have a very good chance of that. If all
we had were the myths. So one more comment on that before we move into round four. Probability
is a huge thing. And I love your stuff because you're basing this off actual scientific probability.
What are the probabilities that he really did exist based off your research
that he may have existed? What is the probability? Yeah, I come to a final conclusion
by even with premises biased as much in favor of historicity as I can reasonably believe possible.
My conclusion is a one in three chance that there was a historical Jesus, which is actually a
respectively high probability. If you think about it like one in three, like would you get into a car
that had a one in three chance of exploding? The answer is no. So there is like a serious possibility
that there was a Jesus, but I think the probability is just below 50%. And this is the irony is that
Ehrman does this a lot. It's black and white because either absolutely he existed or absolutely he
didn't. He has this hard time with, as most people do, this is a common cognitive bias in human
brains. He has a hard time grasping the middle case where we just don't know, right? Where that's
slightly unlikely, but not certainly the case that he didn't exist, right? So it's like these,
the reality is the evidence is dodgy and scarce and problematic. And so our conclusion is dodgy and
problematic. It's going to be, there's going to be wide ranges of uncertainty. And we need to admit
that, like when you're dealing with something like this, unlike, for example, Alexander the Great,
where the evidence is vast, like the evidence is so extensive that there isn't really room for doubt
there. There's lots of room for doubt in the history of Jesus. Even if you believe in the
history of Jesus, you should admit that you can't be absolutely certain because the evidence for
the history of Jesus is so much weaker and more problematic than the evidence for any other figure.
Let me get to my positive argument. Jesus of Nazareth is one of the best attested
Palestinian Jews of the entire first century. From the year one of the common era, one C.E.,
to the year 100 C.E., we know that there were hundreds of thousands of Jews living in Palestine.
How many of those Jews are better attested than Jesus? One. Josephus the Historian. He's attested
better only because he left us multiple writings. If you look only at external attestation for
first century Palestinian Jews, Jesus actually is much better than Josephus. We have four
Gospels written about him. These Gospels come from the very next generation after his life.
Contrast that with Josephus. We have zero negative accounts of the Jewish
historian Josephus. How many narrative accounts do we have for the most powerful religious figure
in Jesus' day, Caiaphas, the High Priest Caiaphas? We have no narrative accounts. How many narrative
accounts do we have for Pontus Pilate, the most powerful man in first century Palestine? We have
no narrative accounts. How many accounts do we have for anyone else in first century Palestine?
We have no narrative accounts. It's not even close. I'm not saying that the Gospel accounts
are non-problematic. As some of you know, I've made an entire career out of arguing that they're
problematic. Wow. This, I don't know if he's ignorant here or if he's playing word games
when he uses the phrase narrative accounts. Because in actual fact, we do have accounts,
written accounts of Pontus Pilate by contemporary who actually wrote a whole book about him,
Philo of Alexandria. Now, we don't have that book, but we have Philo's discussion of the book. We
have Philo's discussion of things about Pontus Pilate and other books that Philo wrote. So,
we have a contemporary talking about Pontus Pilate as a historical person and giving his
details about Pontus Pilate. We do not have that for Jesus. So, for airmen to say that we
don't have that evidence for Pontus Pilate, it is really disturbing because it looks like
manipulation. Like he's trying to hide facts from the audience to trick the audience into thinking
that we have more evidence for Jesus than we have for Pilate when in fact it's the other way around.
And it's worse than that because it's not just narrative accounts. We have an inscription
commissioned by Pilate himself in his own language. So, we have a detailed narrative
accounts from Josephus about Pontus Pilate who Josephus is using sources who he cites and names
who are actually contemporaries. And we have mentioned an account in other historians as well.
So, this idea that we have better evidence for Jesus than Pontus Pilate is just fully false.
And so, I don't know how he can actually stand there and actually try to sell this to the audience.
It really bothers me. And the same with Caiaphas. We have narrative accounts of Caiaphas in Josephus.
To say that we have no narrative accounts of Caiaphas isn't true. Now, I suspect what he meant
to say is we don't have contemporaries of Caiaphas, I guess. Although, we have, I think, we've found
the ossuary of Caiaphas with his name inscribed on it. So, we actually, I think we have actual
physical evidence for Caiaphas as well. But we do have narrative accounts in Josephus. So,
that's not true. And really, also, this is a circular argument. Because imagine if you were
to say, because you could say just as easily, Hercules is the best attested 13th century Peloponnesian,
right? But that doesn't make him even a job more likely historical, as I wrote when I reviewed this
this debate. So, what he's doing is he's gauging in a circular argument here. He's assuming that
narrative accounts are always historical. Therefore, if we have narrative accounts,
they are evidence for the historicity of what their accounts are, which is false, because we
have narrative accounts also of all mythical people. So, merely having narrative accounts of
someone is not evidence that they're historical. This is the whole question we're trying to resolve
is whether the narrative accounts are myths or historical. And an airman here is using a circular
argument of presuming they're historical in order to argue that they're historical. So,
this is logically invalid reasoning, again. And it's based on premises that are kind of
outrageously false when he says things about Pontius Pilate. I'd also point out that Herod
Agrippa is a much better attested 1st century Palestinian Jew than anyone else, including
Jesus. So, for him to say that about Jesus, but for him to say Jesus is the most attested
1st century Palestinian Jew is intrinsically assuming that he actually was a historical
person. So, the argument is circular. And I'm astonished that he would use this kind of reasoning.
Look, do you want to add on that or ask anything pertaining to that?
You know, Richard and Derek, no need to. That's the carrier scalpel. I mean,
you just laid it out beautifully. He's getting the question on that. And I think we all can see it.
So, yeah, we can move on, Derek.
Okay. Well, that's interesting, because one more question before we do the
long that I had. I just want to interrupt Luther's idea. I've heard it said John the Baptist existed.
And they'll try to use arguments, you know, like, you know, Robert Eisenman, you know, says,
well, the brother of James, which we're going to get into that. But, you know, if there are people
around Jesus, like John the Baptist, what are the odds that John the Baptist existed before
we move into round five? Yeah, I'd say more likely than not. Because we don't have highly mythologized
versions of John the Baptist. We only have straightforward historical accounts. And the
existence of John the Baptist better explains why he's in the Gospels. And we have one account of
him in Josephus. Now, some people have proposed that that's a Christian interpolation. I actually
think it's not. There might be Christian interpolations in the passage about John the Baptist in
Josephus. But those interpolations can only be identified by assuming that there was an actual
account of John the Baptist in there that Christians didn't like and wanted to change.
So I think we have better attestation for John the Baptist than we do for Jesus. And we have less
reason to doubt the historicity of John the Baptist than we do for Jesus. So I would put
the existence of John the Baptist above 50% for sure. But maybe not absolutely certain. He's not
well attested. We have Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John are not simply one Gospel in four forms.
They are four Gospels based on different literary and oral sources. The Gospel of Mark was probably
written sometime around the year 70 of the Common Era. Jesus died around the year 30 of the Common
Era. Mark is absolutely based on all traditions that the author had heard. Matthew and Luke used
Mark as one of their sources, but they had other sources available to them. Matthew and Luke had
one other source that they shared together that no longer exists. Scholars call it Q.
Matthew had other sources that Luke did not have. Luke had other sources that Matthew did not have.
That means prior to the writing of the Gospels, you've got sources from Mark, different sources for
Matthew and Luke, different sources for Matthew, different sources for Luke, and we're not even
talking about John, which didn't use Matthew, Mark, and Luke, and had different sources of his own.
These are multiple independent sources from the first century. How is it possible that you have
so many sources about somebody who never existed? These sources are independent of each other.
They're not copying one another. You have independent sources from before the Gospels.
Some of these sources have traditions in them that almost certainly go back to Aramaic speaking
Palestine. Some of these sources record sayings of Jesus in which he uses Aramaic words known
only in Palestine. Some of the sources contain stories that make sense if you translate them
back into Aramaic, better sense than they make when they're given in Greek. That shows the story
started out as Aramaic stories. You have Aramaic stories about Jesus from Palestine
years before the Gospels. These are stories in Aramaic Palestine that almost certainly go back
to the 30s of the common era, multiple sources. This is far better than anybody that we have
in Palestine in the entire first century. It's better than almost anybody we have in the ancient
world with exceptions that we all could probably cite. There's tons of misleading statements in
there, hugely misleading, and more logic, more failures of logic here. First, let's correct some
of the factual errors he made. All current leading experts on the Gospel of John agree
John used the synoptic as a source. When Ereman says he didn't, Ereman is simply wrong.
There's actually no evidence that John didn't use them. There's plenty of evidence that John
did. John is not an independent source. It's also this claim that we can reconstruct Aramaic versions
of these stories. It's highly dubious. In fact, it's based on more invalid reasoning. I have blog
articles about this, but it's simply a hypothesis. It's not something that we've actually demonstrated
to be the case. Moreover, none of these authors say they're using sources. This is all hypothetical.
In my opinion, there's no good evidence for this Q document that Ereman talks about, but certainly
it's heavily debated in the scholarly community. There's a lot of serious scholars who seriously
doubt that there was a Q. Ereman is leaning on a whole bunch of speculations on hypotheses
and presenting them as if they're established facts, known facts, as if the Gospel authors say
they're using sources, unlike other ancient historians who actually named their sources.
Right? No, they don't. They don't say they're using sources. So how do we know they use sources?
And this is where we get to the failure of logic here. Take the example of the stories of Moses.
We have multiple stories, not just ones in the Bible. We have other ones on Josephus and in the
biblical antiquities and a whole bunch of other stories, the life of Moses, a lot of these documents
that expand on and alter the story of Moses in the Old Testament. We wouldn't say that because they
add material to the story of Moses. Therefore, they had sources for the historical Moses,
and therefore Moses was historical. That would be absurd. We know that they add material and
change things because they're adding material and changing things. They're making stuff up.
Moses didn't exist. And I think Ereman would agree that Moses was a mythical person.
So when you see these later documents, these later stories of Moses that expand on the Moses
story, they're not getting that from sources. So why would you assume they're getting it from
sources? It's the same with the redactions that we see in the Gospels. They add material and change
material, and some of which, many of which, including the Sermon on the Mount, for example,
leading scholars or experts on this have said they were added later. They did not come from
sources. The Sermon on the Mount is agreed, for example, Dale Allison demonstrates that it was
invented after the Jewish war. So it does not go back to Jesus. So there's many examples of this
where the Gospels are adding and changing stuff that is just made up. It doesn't have sources.
And notice that Ereman never acknowledges this, never mentions this, and never gives any
tool or argument as to how we're supposed to tell the difference between something that's
added because it's made up and something that's added because it had a source. He gives no argument
for this. So this is deeply illogical. So just assume that because you have new material and
later redaction, that it had a source rather than being made up. That's a circular argument, again,
because you're presuming that it's a historical addition. So that's just illogical.
Even with the assumption of oral sources, too, there's not really any evidence that they had
any oral sources. In fact, it looks like all their sources were literary if they had sources at all.
And even if their source, they had literates, let's assume there was a Q.
We can't even prove that Mark is not a redaction of Q. We can't even prove that Q is just another
mythical document that started the whole trend of creating redactions of the Gospels. We can't get from
Q to a historical Jesus. It's just another myth about Jesus. So how do you establish
that Q goes back? And so he gives this Aramaic argument, and this is one I find really astonishingly
bad logic. It's more affirming the consequence, incidentally, because he argues that if we had
a gospel written in Aramaic, that therefore it comes from Palestine in the 30s AD, which is
false logic. It's the assumption that because Aramaic was spoken in Palestine in the 30s,
therefore anything written in Aramaic came from Palestine in the 30s AD. That's false.
Aramaic was spoken all across the Middle East, all throughout Syria, even in Asia Minor, which
modern-day Turkey, and was spoken for hundreds of years, even after Christianity. So you can't
get from Aramaic to Palestine in the 30s AD, but yet he asserts this as if it's a known fact that
we know there were written Aramaic sources written in Palestine in the 30s AD. We have
absolutely no evidence of that being the case. And so I find it really shocking and galling that he
would make this argument to the public and thus mislead the public on what the facts actually
are. He's presenting a wild speculation as if it's a fact that he can then argue for the historicity
of Jesus from. What's disturbing about that is that's exactly what he accuses mythicists of doing,
and some mythicists do do that. They use that same invalid reasoning where they replace facts with
speculations, wild speculations even. I don't do that. That was the whole point of my book,
was to specifically get rid of all the wild speculations and just settle on what can we
actually argue as a case. But Aramaic is using that method here, taking a wild speculation
and treating it as fact, and then basing his conclusion on this fact that he's thus invented.
And I find that deeply problematic to see anyone attempt to do that.
So Richard, he is assuming non-independence, which he does not establish,
correct, and he makes this chain whereby Aramaic is supposed to mean older,
and older is supposed to mean historical. That's the other point I was going to make,
it also assumes for some reason that you can't write myth and fiction in Aramaic, right?
Right. There's something like, yeah, if there's an Aramaic gospel, how do you know it's not just
another myth written in Aramaic, right? So this is wildly illogical behavior coming from a serious
historian. I hate to say it, but at this point, it sounds to me he believes in history. You see
where I'm going with this? Anyways, round of six. Maybe that's the real myth,
history is the real myth. He's got his own myth, yeah, his own myth that there were
written Aramaic documents by eyewitnesses in Palestine in the 30s AD. That's a myth,
total myth that he's invented based on this specious reasoning, and he believes it. He believes
that myth. Like that is true. You notice he believes it. He sells it as a fact as if it's a
demonstrated fact. So he's actually bought into myths and is trying to build history out of it,
and that's just invalid reasoning as a historian. And I agree with you wholeheartedly on that. In
fact, that's the reason why I know that round one sounded kind of like, well, where's the argument?
For our audience and for anyone who listens, that's why I brought it up because I thought
it was interesting when I kept re-listening to this debate. He says, I believe in history. Now,
I know that I might be reading into it, but in a sense, I'm not. You know what I mean?
Yeah, yeah. No, I get it. I see where I see your whole connection there.
All right, round six.
Paul's views of Jesus are really important, as I think Bob and I would both agree.
Paul does not talk about a heavenly cosmic figure, Joshua or Jesus, who was crucified by demons in
outer space, the way mythicists have often said. Paul talks about a real historical figure, Jesus,
a Jew among Jews, a preacher-teacher who was crucified by his earthly opponents.
Yes, Paul thought that Jesus was a divine being who was also a human being. Paul does
think that Jesus was a divine being who was also a human being. Right, oh, are we still there?
Yeah, we are. I cut it off there. Yeah, yeah. No, that's good. That's the right place to do it.
Yeah, so it's somewhat misleading here because this is a straw man. This is a good example of a
fallacy of straw man, where he gives the audience the impression that mythicists have said that Paul
says Jesus was crucified in outer space by demons. That's not what mythicists say. What mythicists
say is that Paul does not say what what Ehrman just said. Paul never says that Jesus was crucified
by his earthly opponents, never says that. He never says who actually crucified him or where.
It's never mentioned, which is weird already, but the way he talks about the crucifixion of
Jesus and who crucified him looks a lot like the way Paul and other early Christians talked about
the demonic powers. And in fact, even Origen, the third century theologian, agrees that when Paul
says the archons of this aeon crucified Jesus that Paul does mean demonic figures did so.
Origen constructs this idea that they did it through the agency of earthly authorities,
but that's of course not said by Paul. That's a theological assumption by Origen. But Origen at
least admits that the language is the language of demonic powers, that Paul seems to be talking about
demonic forces killing Jesus. And he does not say it was in Jerusalem. He does not say it was on
earth. So this is the weird thing that when when mythists say that Paul seems to only ever talk
about a celestial being, it's based on the conclusion and the fact that Paul never says
Jesus was on earth. He only talks about him in this weird theological way. And when Paul ever
does talk about where Jesus was or what he's doing, he's always a heavenly being who only
communicates through revelation. And this is what gets me to this point where I think
Ehrman is saying something that's actually factually false, where he says that Paul says that Jesus
was a preacher and a teacher. That's not the case. There's no evidence in Paul of Paul ever saying
that Jesus had a ministry or preached to anyone. Paul says he has sayings of the Lord, but he
talks about getting these things through revelation. Even when he talks about getting the teaching
about the Eucharist from Jesus, he says he has it directly from the Lord, meaning in Paul's case,
that means a revelation. So we can't get from revelation to an actual walking around historical
Jesus preaching to people. Paul never says like Jesus preached this teaching to this guy and this
guy related it to me. Like that doesn't exist in Paul. It's only revelation. Even when we look
in 1 Corinthians 15 or 1 Corinthians 15, Paul says, you know, according to the scriptures,
Jesus has crucified and died and crucified and buried and died and crucified, but died,
buried and was resurrected. And then he was seen by various people. And of course, Paul means in
Galatians 1, he says it's through visions. It's not through like actually meeting Jesus like the
Gospels depict its envisions. And Ehrman would agree that these were visions of Jesus. But the
curious thing is, there's no mention of anyone seeing Jesus before he died or as he died. That
when you look at the whole creed, Paul's entire discussion of the origins of Christianity,
no one sees Jesus. There's no ministry in his account. There's no Jesus selecting disciples.
There's none of that. It's just the first time you ever hear about Jesus being seen by anyone.
It's after his death, envisions of the risen Jesus at that point, celestial Jesus. So
this is the actual argument that Methodists are making. And Ehrman is like misrepresenting the
argument and therefore using non sequiturs here where he's using red herrings where he's talking
about like Paul doesn't say outer space. Well, of course he wouldn't because the historicist sect
that chose which letters of Paul to preserve would not have preserved a letter from Paul that said
this had there been one. So they choose letters that are ambiguous that they can use and spin in
any particular way. So we can't argue from that for historicity. And then he makes these false
statements about what Paul does say about Jesus. Paul does not. This is what's really weird is that
Paul does not ever talk about Jesus as having a ministry or choosing disciples or ever having
disciples. The word disciples not in Paul. So Ehrman is misrepresenting the Methodist position
and misrepresenting the facts of what's in Paul. And I find this bothers me a lot as a debater.
And especially in the way he has this angry forceful way of saying these things,
which are really dodgy and suspicious and illogical. So anyway, that's my thought on that. Oh, I would
add one more thing. Also, the Mrs. hypothesis is at least the best ones, the one that I defend
as most likely, if any is likely, agrees that Jesus became incarnate as acquired a Jewish body.
This is actually part of the mythology. And that's very clear. And we talked about how the way Paul
talks about this. It sounds like Paul, sorry, sounds like God manufactured a body for Jesus.
And of course, it had to be a Jewish body had to be derived in some fashion from David and so on.
But that doesn't get us to earth. Whether Jesus was given an incarnate Jewish Davidic body
in the lower heavens or in on earth, it's the same way. So like the question is, which is it?
And Paul never says so we can't actually get from Paul to where this incarnation occurred,
where he assumed this Jewish body. And that's what the Myths just point out is peculiar about
Paul and also why we can't use Paul to argue for earliest Christians definitely saying that he
assumed this body on earth, because Paul never said that. But Richard, in one or two instances,
Paul uses a Greek word, which actually means manufactured with respect to Jesus's body.
Isn't that important? And there's some let's get that accurate though. So the word is
which means becoming or made into or happened to be, it can be used and is used by some other
authors to mean born. So it because birth is a form of manufacture. So it is not a word that
absolutely only ever means manufacture. The peculiar thing is in Paul's choice of vocabulary
in his style of writing, the way he chooses words, he does not use that word ever of natural human
birth. When he talks about natural human birth, he uses a different word, which is a different
concept. It's a similar word, similar root, but it he uses that for human birth. He only uses
genominos when he's talking about it. When we can look at other examples, he only uses it
when he's referring to divine manufacturers. So for example, when he says God made Adam,
he uses genominos. When he says God will make our future resurrection bodies, he uses genominos.
So the only time Paul ever uses that word of bodies, it's manufactured bodies. And the only
time Paul speaks of human births, he uses a different word, not that word. So when we're
analyzing Paul, this is the key thing is like, you can't go outside of Paul and say, well,
other authors use the words differently. No, what we want to know is what Paul means, right?
We want to look at how Paul uses words. And when we look at how Paul uses words, he never,
it's very weird, in fact, for him to avoid his preferred word for human birth.
And when talking about this incarnation, and yet to choose to use a word that he only ever uses
in multiple occasions for divine manufacturers. So that's the argument there. And it is so
peculiar, in fact, and this is the funny thing is it's so peculiar. Christians later had such a
problem with this, that they didn't like it. So they actually went into the manuscripts of Paul
and changed both of these genominos words, changed them to his preferred word for human birth,
because they didn't like the fact that he was implying that God manufactured the body of Jesus.
They wanted it to be human birth. So they changed both places. And you know what the big irony is
on this? Do you know who discovered and wrote about this manuscript meddling? Bart Ehrman.
So Bart Ehrman himself, yes, in Orthodox Corruption of Scripture, there's a whole section where he
talks about how Christians didn't like the fact that Paul was using this wrong word for birth.
And so they changed these words back to what they think Paul should have said, which is birth,
human birth. And we know that was later addition, it wasn't an earlier version of Paul. And Ehrman
is the one who proves all this. He actually shows the evidence and says, yeah, this is the later,
and they deliberately did it, because you notice they do it in both places, which indicates deliberate
meddling. So yeah, Ehrman himself knows this, knows what I'm talking about, and yet he's kind
of erased this from the argument here. Well, Richard, it would be a delicious moment for you
to present that to Ehrman and use his own argument against him. That would be interesting.
Wow. That would be epic. I mean, obviously, it would be great if some billionaire who was into
this stuff that we're into could figure out a way to get this to happen. But before we moved around
seven, because I wrote a few things down that kind of caught my mind. I said, you know, let me
ask him while he's here at this point. Is Paul kind of Gnostic? What's going on with Paul being
Gnostic? And also, is Paul's writings, the seven books that you would agree that from what I've
heard, and I don't want to put words in your mouth, but from what I've heard, there's seven out of the
13 you would agree were probably Paul for sure. Were they written before any other New Testament
book as well as is he Gnostic? Or is it possible he's a Gnostic? The answer is yes. I'm less certain
about Philemon, but Philemon has no, it's one of the letters that Paul wrote or is alleged to have
written. It doesn't have any mentions of Jesus that are relevant to the deciding this question,
so it's not relevant whether it's historical or not. But I have issues with the authenticity of
Philemon. So we have at least six, and if you include Philemon, that's seven, that are definitely
authentic because they have consistent Pauline style. They consistently assume things that only
someone in the 50s AD or someone before the Jewish war would assume and so on. So we, there's good
arguments for those seven authentic letters and good arguments for the other letters of Paul
being inauthentic. They're not in Pauline style and so on. But, so the answer to your question,
and the answer to your question is yes. We have no other Christian literature at all, in fact,
earlier than the letters of Paul. And unless maybe like 1 Peter, for example, is authentic
and earlier than Paul, we can't establish either one of those things. But curiously,
1 Peter lacks any mention of a historical Jesus or I should say an earthly Jesus. So,
so that's, you know, it doesn't help the historicist argument. And there's other letters like
1 Clement that was actually definitely written after the death of Paul, but probably before the
Jewish war. And therefore, even 1 Clement probably predates the Gospels and other literature in the
New Testament. In the book of Hebrews, appears to have been written possibly after the death of Paul,
or maybe at the same time. But the Hebrews is also one of these peculiar letters that doesn't
clearly ever say Jesus was a historical person on earth. And even appears to say or appears to
imply that he wasn't a historical person, or it wasn't a historical, I'm sorry, wasn't an earthly
person. But, so, but yeah, so the letters of Paul are the early, those seven letters of Paul
are the earliest documents we have. They date from, we presume the 50s AD is the best place we can
place them in terms of time, which means 20 years after the origins of religion, and 20 years before
any first gospel was ever written. So, so that's that. And to record Gnostic. Now, I come to the
conclusion in my research that there was no such thing as Gnosticism. And it's a, it's a modern
construct that doesn't apply to the ancient world. So we should get rid of that word. And it turns
out I'm just now I'm going to be at the Society of Biblical Literature Conference in Denver,
Colorado, coming up in November. So by the way, if anyone's going to the Society of Biblical
Literature Conference in Denver, Colorado, hit me up. Maybe we'll have a grab a drink or something.
I'm doing a pub meet out there. In fact, right by the conference, you can find that on my website.
So if anyone wants to converge there and talk about stuff, you're welcome, get in touch with me.
But the, so what I'm doing, one of the things I'm doing there is I'm attending and going to be on
panel, I'm paneling for the West Star Institute, which is, you know, the Jesus Seminar. So I'm
actually a Jesus Seminar Fellow, technically West Star, West Star Institute Fellow, the Jesus
Seminar was a past project of the West Star Seminar, the West Star Institute. But so I'm going to be
there doing that. But one of the things that the new conclusions that the West Star Institute is
drafting as going to be like the consensus policy or consensus position is the same exact
conclusion that Gnosticism didn't exist. It's a modern construct that doesn't correspond to
anything in the ancient world. We should get rid of it. And they'd base this on way even more
extensive research than I did. So that's going to be interesting. I can't wait for them to
publish that to make this point. Now, this doesn't mean that there weren't sects that had ideas in
them that got folded into the modern construct of Gnosticism. The ideas within what we call Gnosticism
today is this collection of ideas that actually did not correspond to any one sect. But you can
find many sects that had pieces of that. There just wasn't a there wasn't really Gnosticism as a thread,
really. So when you say it was Paul Gnostic, I mean, if you break Gnostic down into look at it,
there weren't there wasn't such a thing as Gnosticism. But if you just break all the pieces out
and say like, let's look at all the little things that people think Gnostics believed,
Paul does believe a lot of those things and clearly does advocate them. Does that make him
a Gnostic? Well, no, because Gnostics didn't exist. So I think I'm sorry. That's a confusing
answer. But that's that's where we're at on that. Wow. Okay. Well, you did a good job on that. Let's
continue. Let's see what we got going on around 70. Paul tells us a number of important things
about the historical Jesus based on what he knew. He indicates that Jesus was actually born
physically, that he had a woman as his mother, that he came from the line of King David,
that he was born a Jew, that he was a Jewish Messiah, that he had brothers. One of them was
named James. He preached to other Jews. He had 12 disciples. One of them was Peter, whom Paul knew.
Jesus was a teacher. Paul explicitly cites several of Jesus' teachings. Jesus had a last supper
with his disciples. Jesus was crucified by the ruling authorities at the instigation of the
Jewish authorities. Paul tells us these things. Yeah. A lot of specious stuff there. Now, this
is stuff that Price should have pushed back on more because there's lots of assumptions in here.
He said once again, Armin is substituting assumptions for facts rather than going right
to the actual facts. So like, for example, he says Paul says that Jesus was born physically. Now,
actually, Memphis has already agreed that that's the case, that he was physically incarnate. But
Paul never says, quote unquote, born physically, right? That's not in Paul. So Armin is substituting
an assumption for a fact. And we already talked about the problem with the word born, that Armin
is also glossing over ironically, given that he well knows that there's that's problematic with
the word that he uses. He says he had a woman as a mother. Now, this is highly contentious,
debate over this. I think it's very obvious. And when you look at it in context, and when you
understand the work, this argument Paul makes in Galatians four, it actually is an argument that
goes from Galatians three into Galatians four. It's one continuous speech. And it follows the
rhetorical standards of the day in terms of how you construct an argument. When you analyze it
rhetorically, he clearly means an allegorical mother. He doesn't mean a literal mother,
which is the case even if Jesus existed. So the fact that Paul is talking about an allegorical
mother here is not evidence against historicity. It's just not evidence for historicity either.
Because he's talking, he says these women are allegories. And he says the woman of
Hagar represents the woman of this world, meaning you're born of this world, the corruption of
this world. And Sarah is the woman of the celestial realm. So when you're reborn in heaven,
you're going to be you're going to have a new mother, which is Sarah. But when you're in this
world, your mother is Hagar, right? So that these are metaphorical women, not literal women. Paul
is not saying that Christians are literally born, all the children of the woman named Hagar.
And he's explicit about this. He's very explicit that this is allegory. And the construct of this
argument means that when he's talking about Jesus being born of a woman, he's talking about Jesus
being born of a woman Hagar in the same sense that we are. He's talking about Jesus was man,
and this is the word manufactured, Jesus was manufactured in the earthly realm with an earthly
body that that's that's born of this world in the sense that it's actually made out of the
materials of this world and bears the corruption with it. And Jesus was able to purify that through
his atoning death, right? So that's the whole argument he's making. He's not talking about a
literal birth. And when in that same section, Galatians four, when he talks about God manufactured
Jesus out of a woman from a woman, he goes on to talk about us being born. Notice Paul uses
the actual word for born that Paul prefers for human birth. So he actually is making the distinction
between human birth and divine manufacture in the exact same passage that we're talking about.
And so when you look at these things, you see like, well, at best, it's 50 50, right? So like,
you can't even concretely argue that Paul means an actual historical woman. He may or may not,
I think the evidence very strongly indicates he's not. And but but even if you're like,
not sure about this, you have to agree that you you, there's no conclusion here. You can't know,
does Paul mean an allegorical woman because he's talking about he says he's talking about allegorical
woman or does Paul mean a literal woman? I mean, just just at first look, you can't tell. And even
a deeper look, it looks to go the wrong way. It doesn't go towards historicity. So I think this
is where airman is being a little disingenuous. But that would be fair in a debate, right? It would
be fair for him to have made this assertion. And then it would be the job of the opponent to get up
and analyze it the way that I just didn't give a response to it. So I think I don't think there's
anything dodgy about this way that that what airman says here is just that's how you make an argument
as you present a claim and then your opponent gets up and rebuts. I don't think Price did that very
well. But but anyway, now you've heard my rebuttal to that. But he lists a bunch of other things
there, right? He says he came from the line of King David. That's also never in Paul. Paul never
says Jesus descended from David. He never says that he he says he comes from the stock of David
in the sense that he comes from actually Jesse, he says he comes from basically the seat of Jesse
in that sense, and the seat of David. But that's never really clear as whether he means descent
or whether God just used material from David to manufacture the body of Jesus. So it's it's
weirdly vague. And so we're stuck and he uses that manufacturing word again, rather than
human birth. So we're stuck with uncertainty. It could mean that Paul's talking about a belief
about the historical birth of Jesus, farming the earthly birth of Jesus, or it could mean Paul is
talking about this celestial manufacture of a body for Jesus in order to fulfill scripture,
which is another thing. God had to do this to fulfill scripture. So we can't tell Paul is very
vague about this. And that's why I think that's not determinative evidence. Also saying Jesus,
Paul says Jesus was a Jew. Well, he means Jewish flesh, right? So that he's talking about the flesh
of Jesus when he became incarnate was Jewish flesh, because it was under the law submitted under the
law, basically, so that he could represent and die to the law, basically kill the law on the
crosses about this is Paul's sort of argument. Brothers, maybe we'll get into that. Is there
another round we're going to do for the brothers, or is that I don't know?
Well, you were talking about the vagueness of this assertion in Paul that Jesus was born of a
woman. But logically, this mythological milieu of the miraculous, he doesn't say Jesus was sired
of a man. And since he doesn't say that, it kind of makes it obvious that being born of a woman
doesn't have any historical in import, because you didn't say, well, he was sired of a man,
then you could understand, you know, oh, he had brothers. There's so many other things he could
have brought in at that time to anchor it in history, and he didn't do it. You're right. It's
weird. And also, even if you don't agree, it's weird. You have to agree that it's just not in there.
You're missing the evidence that you would need to establish historicity.
The things Paul could have said that would nail historicity down just aren't in there.
Whatever you make of that, the one thing you have to make of it is that you can't argue
therefore from Paul to historicity. I think you can argue from that against historicity,
but those are two separate arguments. But to go on, he says again that Paul says Jesus was a
preacher. No, never in there. Paul never says that. He says Paul says Jesus had 12 disciples.
No, never in there. Paul says there's an I-12, quote unquote, but he never says they're disciples,
never calls anyone disciples, never says Peter was a disciple, never says anyone met Jesus when
he was incarnate, never says Jesus picked disciples when he was incarnate, never says any of those
things. Paul only ever knows about apostles, and to Paul, and Paul says this repeatedly, an apostle
is someone who had a revelation of the Christ. So being an apostle does not establish historicity,
and that's all Paul says is that Peter and these other guys were apostles. So
it's being very disingenuous, I think, for airmen to tell the audience that Paul says Jesus had
12 disciples. That's simply false. And again, it glosses over the real problems with the evidence
here, that when you actually look at the evidence, it starts to fall apart. And the last supper,
Paul never calls it a last supper. There's no reference to a last supper. Paul just says he
received from the Lord a message about what he preached or what he taught or said when he was
killed or right before the night he was killed. Now, of course, Paul is clearly indicating that he
got this through a revelation. But in his revelation, as he describes it, there's no one else present,
there's no disciples, there's no one there. It's just Jesus who's clearly speaking to future generations
of Christians. And so this is clearly a sort of theological, you know, revelatory experience,
kind of like something in the book of Acts when Peter is depicted as seeing Jesus or God
presenting a blanket with food on it in the heavens and stuff like that, or Stephen seeing
Jesus sitting at the right hand of God, or Paul even in 2 Corinthians 12 talking about how he had
full conversations with Jesus. This is a dead celestial Jesus at this point, resurrected celestial
Jesus. But so these are the kinds of things Paul is talking about. So this doesn't get us back to a
last supper. There's no actual historical earthly event that we can tie this to. It's the later
Gospels that turn this into a historical earthly event, or I should say just earthly event, with
disciples present and Jesus is speaking to the disciples. That's not in Paul. And that's why
it matters. It's why it matters that Paul does not call it the last supper. The last supper would
imply that there are previous suppers, which would imply historicity. But no, he only calls it the
Lord's Supper, and it's only a commandment from this Jesus that he gets through Revelation to
future generations of Christians. So when you look at Paul outside the Gospels, it does not look
like historicity. But when you look at the Gospels, now you're starting to see it turning into a
historical event. And that's the curious sequence of events that makes Mythesis doubt the historicity
of Jesus. Similar with crucifixion, Paul actually never says the Jews crucified Jesus. Of course,
the Gospels don't say the Jews crucified Jesus either, worth pointing out. The Romans did. But
what I assume, and it just may come up, I think it does come up later in the debate, but I assume
he's referring to 1 Thessalonians 2. I think there's a passage in there that's been highly
contested where most scholars agree the reference to the Jews killing Jesus and then being punished
for it in the final way, which is a reference to the destruction of Jerusalem. Most scholars agree
that that passage is an interpolation. Paul could not have written about the Jews getting
their punishment, not only because Paul never wrote about the Jews that way at all, never wrote
about them as a collective class being guilty for the death of Jesus, or as bad people that
deserved the wrath of God. But he also wasn't alive when the Jewish war happened and the destruction
of the Jewish temple. So he can't possibly refer to the Jews getting their final punishment
from God. Only a later Christian could have inserted that.
Well, that's raised me some questions, if you will. Sure. Because, I mean, look, we're getting
close. You know, round 8, 9, 10, we're 50 minutes out. So seed of a woman, or this kind of, this
not seed of a woman, I'm sorry, but seed of Abraham. I know this is off topic, but it seems like if
this is, I mean, we know based off what we've researched, even in the Old Testament, people
like Abraham didn't actually exist. So what is this seed of Abraham? Does it correlate? Is there
something interesting or mythological about this concept? Are these biological Israelites that this
is supposedly applying in, you know, to somehow they're trying to, yeah, go ahead. Right. It's
interesting. So Paul does talk about the seed of Abraham as not just biological, but something one
can acquire mythically, or mystically, that you can be, you can become of the seed of Abraham,
not biologically. So he does use it as a metaphorical concept for how Gentiles can become
saved within the church, that they can all become the seed of Abraham and thus acquire the promise
God made to the seed of Abraham. So when Paul says seed of Abraham, he very explicitly allows that
that can mean non biologically. And this was well known even in the Old Testament because you could
convert to Judaism. There's a passage in Exodus that's specific about how you could convert. So
someone who's not literally biologically of the seed of Abraham can become a member of the seed
of Abraham through a ritual induction. So even the Old Testament acknowledges that seed of Abraham
can be non literal. And Paul explicitly says that. So, so yeah, definitely that that's more
evidence of how people could talk about these things in metaphorical allegorical ways and not
mean it literally. And so you have to decide like how do we know when he uses these phrases,
whether he's using it literally or metaphorically. And oftentimes we don't know there isn't any way
to determine it. Luther, that was pretty straight to the jugular in terms of our IO friends. Wouldn't
you agree there about it? It sure was. Yeah, you can talk metaphorically about it. You can talk
mystically about becoming the seed of Abraham. And therefore, by interpretation, you don't have
to be a biological Jew. But one can come in to be grafted into Israel. Yeah, very interesting.
Round eight. Here we go, guys. This is interesting. It's getting good. I wrote a few questions down
if we have the time, but I know Luther's got some too. So when we get done with these 10 rounds,
here we go. The first is one that is central to many of the debates about mythicism. It comes
in Galatians chapter one, verse 19, where Paul says that three years after his conversion,
so this would be by my chronology about the year 35 or 36, the common era, he says,
after three years, I went to Jerusalem to visit Cephas. I remained with him for 15 days. Cephas
Peter, Jesus' closest disciple. But I saw none of the other apostles except James, the Lord's
brother. The brother of the Lord. Paul knows Jesus' brother, and he knows Jesus' closest
disciple, Cephas. The word brother in the New Testament always means one of two things. A brother
means a blood relative who's born to the same mother. That's one of the things it means. In other
words, it means what brother means. The second thing it means is, it's sometimes referred to, often
refers to, members of the same believing community who stand in close solidarity. Right on. Yeah,
there we are. Yeah, so yes, and this is the point where I think this, he's right, like this is the
key passage where I think the debate centers around. It's really the only evidence, in my
opinion, the only actual evidence historians really have. And I think the David and mother
thing is really weak, but at least I allow it in my book. I allow it to be evidence for
historicity, even though I think it's super weak. I give it more weight than I think it deserves.
But this one is one that I also allow it to be evidence for historicity. I still end up concluding
that the probability is less than 50%, even counting this as evidence for historicity.
But yes, the debate rages around this, and I think this is it. Certainly, if these passages,
there's two, by the way, he mentions one where he's talking about James, the brother of the Lord,
but there's also a plural brothers of the Lord as a class of people that Paul references in
1 Corinthians 9. So there's two passages that talk about this. And I think that's really,
if those passages weren't in there, I think the historicity of Jesus would be even lower probability,
like it would really tank. So this is an important one. And so he presents a reasonable
argument for the historicist position, and that's fair. And so what one should do is actually respond
correctly when one gets up to the podium to do a rebuttal, and I don't think Price did that very
well. But so here's the problems here. Now, Aramette admits that there's two versions of brother,
the member of the same community version and the biological version. That's slightly
overgeneralizing, because in fact, there were two versions of brotherhood,
even in Paul's explicit Christian theology, that are more specific than that,
because Paul says Jesus is the firstborn of many brethren. That's a direct quote. And he says that
all baptized Christians upon baptism are adopted as the sons of God, and they cry out Abba father
to God. They become literal sons of God in the mystical sense, not biologically, obviously.
But if you become the son of God, the adopted son of God through baptism,
you are then the brother of Jesus. By definition, you're the brother of the Lord, right? And Paul
says Jesus is the firstborn of many brethren, meaning all the Christian, all the baptized
Christians are brothers of the Lord. This may actually have been the original name for the
Christians before they were called Christians. They may have called their exact brothers of the
Lord, because their whole modus operandi was this idea that you get baptized into the brotherhood
of Jesus, of the Savior, and therefore become heirs to the kingdom of God, because you're
literally the sons of God. This is the whole logic of Paul's theology. So the question becomes,
when Paul says brothers of the Lord, when he says James the brother of the Lord,
does he just mean rank and file Christians? Does he just mean occultic brothers? Or does
he mean biological brothers? And Paul never says, which is weird, because we know from Paul that
there were cultic brothers of the Lord. So if he's talking about biological brothers,
he would need to specify that, right? He would need to distinguish, oh, by the way,
I mean brothers of the Lord in the flesh or something like that. Otherwise, it would be
confusing. Which kind of brother of the Lord do you mean, Paul? And Paul would have to say,
but the fact that it never occurs to Paul that he has to say indicates that Paul had no knowledge
of a biological category of brother of the Lord, that the only category he talks about and knows
about is the cultic category, this mystical brothers of the Lord. So I think there's actually,
this is evidence against the historicity of Jesus, but I only count that on the lower bounds
of my probability estimate. I counted his evidence for historicity in the upper bound,
which gives me the 1 and 3 result. But there's a lot going on here that I think people like
Airman are skipping. So for example, the grammar of Galatians that he's talking about in this
verse 19 of chapter one is actually really weird. And a lot of translators just skipped over this,
commentators have skipped over it and just sort of said, well, it's an awkward way to say that,
but whatever, we're just going to translate it the way we think it meant. But there have been
scholars who pointed out that actually the grammar does not say that the James in question was an
apostle. It actually says the opposite. It says that Paul only meant one apostle, Peter, and he
met this other guy who was not an apostle, James the brother of the Lord, which would indicate
that he needs to indicate that James was a member of the brotherhood, but not of the rank of apostle.
Now apostles, of course, are also brothers of the Lord, but if you're that's already known,
right, everybody assumes that already knows that the case. So if you say apostle, you know that
means also brother of the Lord. It's like saying, you know, I met the Pope and this Christian guy
named this other Christian named James and James who was a Christian, right? You know,
Pope means Christian, you wouldn't say you wouldn't say, but why didn't you say Pope was a Christian?
No, we know the Pope was a Christian. But if you say I met the Pope and this Christian named James,
people would recognize it. Oh, you mean by Christian, just not a ranking person, but just a
believer of the thing. And then Pope is an actual rank. So that's what seems to be going on here,
just looking at the grammar. If you actually step back and get rid of the assumptions that have been
plaguing translators all this time and actually look at the grammar, the grammar seems to very
clearly say that this James is just a rank and file Christian that Paul had to mention because
he's trying to explain that he never spoke to any Christians except these two guys for many years.
And so he's trying to like make sure he names everyone he spoke to so no one can come back
at him and say, ah, yeah, but I heard there was this Christian named James that you spoke to.
So he's got to put that in there. But at the very least, you can't tell. Does Paul mean
James the brother of the Lord is just a rank and file Christian? Or does he mean James the
brother of the Lord, a biological brother of Jesus? You can't tell. It's very ambiguous. And so I
think this ultimately does not end up being useful evidence for the historicity of Jesus.
And yet I'll even allow it to be evidence for the historicity of Jesus. And it's still not
strong enough to verify the historicity of Jesus. I'm thinking about that or yeah. Yeah, Derek,
I'm about the way Dr. Erman framed this at the very beginning of the debate. Four classes of
literature that developed within the first hundred years or so of the positing of Jesus.
You had the epistles to come first historically and then the Gospels and then Josephus assertion
and then some fictional stories. And what does what does Dr. Erman do? He goes straight for the
Gospels. He presents the Gospels first and not the epistles. And I just find that interesting
that that he kind of jumbles the history because people are going to assume that the Gospels have
to be historical because that's the biology of Jesus. But it really kind of obscures how this
literature unfolded, would you say? Richard? No, I wouldn't call him out on that. What he's doing
is a rhetorical device where you start with the weaker evidence and get to the stronger. Because
I think he thinks this is the strongest evidence. So he wants to end with this or have this later
in his opening statement. So there's a rhetorical reason to do it in that order. It doesn't imply
that he's trying to communicate chronological order to the audience. And in fact, even in my
book, I do Gospels first epistles last. But of course, I explicitly explain the order of them
before I do that. So I don't think it's really his responsibility to do that. So no, I don't really
fault him for that. Okay, interesting. Well, I really like that baptism idea and something just
came to my mind when I've heard this, and I've heard you use this in the debate,
and it took me five or six different ways of you explaining it for it to really hit.
But the idea of, I can't remember where the passage was, where they said something about,
have you received the Holy Spirit since you've been baptized? There's this huge baptism movement
that takes place. I think it's an ax, if I'm not mistaken, but chapter 19, I think, Derek.
There's lots of, yeah, right, lots of references. Yeah.
They're big on baptism and what you say there to me, I mean, just, this is coming from someone who
is a staunch, you know, hardcore Christian who's like big theological thinker, was in the reformed
camps, was big about, you know, just taking words and really detail. And so like that resonates with
me big time because it's evidence now that I'm not in the box, it's like, oh, wow, that actually
makes more sense now that I'm looking at this stuff, that the baptism idea of the brotherhood,
and he is the firstborn among many brethren concept, this idea of brothers, it just seems to make a
lot of sense. So yeah, you know, I'd like to comment on that because this is the thing I found,
not just for this, for many things. So when you look at my book on the historicity of Jesus,
it's, you know, chock full of interesting facts, it's not just about the historicity of Jesus,
it's also about the origins of Christianity and its cultural and religious context and all of that.
When I got through all of that, I realized I understood like tons of things about early
Christianity made way more sense to me than they ever had before once I understood it through this
framework. So that's one of the actually in and of itself kind of evidence for this framework being
correct, is that this actually explains a lot more and makes a lot more sense of what's going on.
And, and I think that this is why this is an important subject, because by focusing on
resisting this framework, people are actually basically isolating themselves from not discovering
things that will actually help them understand the origins of Christianity and its development better
than they do.
Well said, well said, Richard. Yeah, so Derek, Richard's got a big R squared, he's got a big
coefficient of determination there, he just explains more, a bigger percentage of the data.
Makes sense. Yeah, it really does. And that's something that always baffled me, like, you know,
we later on now in the 21st century have these new denominations that come up and we're like, oh,
we got the best explanation. Well, really, like, why did origin, why did Justin Marner and these
guys come along the scene, if you will, and have these, you know, different takes and then the
church starts to incorporate this immaculate, you know, this, what eternal virginity type
concept to a mother Mary and stuff, you're like, why, why would they do such a thing? Well,
because they were so wrong and we're right, you know, 1500 years later, we got the answer, you
know, so it's like, hey, maybe they understood this myth, or even if they had a historical
element that they had, or they became more historical in time, they still had what you're
talking about in terms of these allegorical, symbolic, mystical, whatever, however you want to
put it, mother, seed of Abraham, baptized brothers, like, there's a lot going on here.
A lot. That's right. All right. But we're at your round nine. Before we go to round nine,
again, I just thought about this, I don't want to miss it. Let's talk about that virgin birth you
referred to, Derek. That's not even in Mark. Mark doesn't make any reference to it. It
came along later. What about that, Richard? And what does that say about how the gospel unfolded?
Yeah, yeah. The virgin birth also is not the Immaculate Conception, right? Because that's,
those are two different things. The Immaculate Conception is a later doctrine. It's not, that's
also definitely not in the Bible. It's a later doctrine where they wanted to make sure that
when Mary was conceived in the womb of Mary's mother, that the sin of Adam and the sin of Eve
that gets transferred by the flesh from one person to the next was blocked, like supernaturally,
like the hand of God stopped it so that the flesh of Mary did not become corrupted by this
passing of stuff, which is interesting because if God could just do that, why does he need to execute
Jesus? Why does Jesus need to die if you can stop it? Just stop it. Right. Right. Well, I can't
everybody have immaculately conceived. I don't understand why you need, well, anyway. So, yeah,
Christian theology doesn't make sense when you really analyze it. But that was the Immaculate
Conception was to create this because there was people raising issues about, well, wait a minute,
well, Mary's flesh was corrupted and I wouldn't that have corrupted Jesus's flesh. These are all
concerns that were not relevant to the earliest Christians because the way they conceived of
the incarnation and atonement was much different than what the Christians later did. So the Christians
later, because they've changed their theology so much, they had to invent all these new things to
make it make sense. Now, when you get to the virgin birth, yeah, that's just more incorporation
of mythology layering on top of Jesus, right, borrowing mythology from other figures,
other savior figures, including Moses, like the narratives of or the first narrative of Jesus in
Matthew is very much a sort of update of the Moses narrative. And there were Jewish teachings
around outside the Old Testament, but going around about how Moses was supernaturally
conceived and things like this. So, so they're really copying their like popular conceptions
of Moses and turning Jesus into a new, better Moses in that sense. So definitely mythology
and there's definitely it's stacking up higher and higher. The mythology is getting more ridiculous
over time, but it starts pretty mythological. Like the Gospel of Mark, people say, it's very
mundane. It's like, no, no, if you look at it chapter by chapter, everything that happens in
every chapter is massively implausible as history, even when there's not a miracle in it. And often
there are often crazy miracles like, you know, mass replication of food or the murder of thousands
of pigs, you know, like the withering of a fig tree. Like these are all clearly terrible
tales, met and based on things. So Mark is already writing myth, but the myth got more and more
ridiculous and expansive after that. Well, here we go. Second point about Paul has to tell us.
Paul understands that Jesus was the crucified Messiah. This is the important point. Paul
understands Jesus as the crucified Messiah. Two things to say about that. First, if a first
century Jew talked about someone who was crucified, what do they have in mind? Romans,
crucified people all the time. When people talk about crucified people, what did they mean? You
can read any ancient source, read Josephus if you want to read any ancient source. What do people
mean when they talk about someone who's crucified? They talk about the same thing time after time
after time. They mean somebody that the Romans nailed or tied to a cross in order to publicly
humiliate and torture to death. That's what they mean. If Paul said that Jesus got crucified,
what does he mean? He means the same thing. He doesn't mean that Jesus was killed in outer space
by demonic power circling the globe. He's referring to a death that the Romans inflicted
on criminals. That's what everybody means in the first century. It's kind of weird
for him to say that because we have tons. I cite all the scholarship on this and on the
history of Jesus in the early section of chapter four is that the word Paul uses for crucifixion
was used for all forms of execution, not just Romans. Even Jewish stoning was described as crucifixion
because it just means hanging, basically staking, basically nailing a corpse up or hanging a corpse
up. The Jewish procedure for stoning is you'd stone the person and then hang their corpse up,
so it was still described as a crucifixion. This idea that that's only what you meant is
again a circular argument. This assumption that we know, for example, that the demonic powers were
believed to have castles in the sky, to have scrolls, to have gardens. Adam's body is buried
in outer space, so they have graveyards. If you can have all of these things in outer space or in
the lower heavens or whatever, why can't you have crucifixion? Why would you assume that because
Paul says Jesus was crucified, that he couldn't have been crucified by demons? Why can't that be
the case? If Adam can be buried in heaven, why can't Adam have been killed in heaven? He wasn't,
but that was the whole... actually, what's he? Now that I think about it, no, he dies below,
he dies on earth after he's knocked out of true heaven. But anyway, that's the whole point,
is this is a circular argument. It's assuming that you already know that crucifixions only
happen on earth, but in fact, we know all kinds of earthly things happen in the heavens. In fact,
Hebrews explicitly says this. Everything in the heavens has its copy on earth, so if there's
crucifixion on earth, there by definition has to be crucifixion in the heavens. And we have this
explicitly said in the Ascension of Isaiah, which says the same thing. Everything on earth has its
version in heaven. So we can't just say that because he says crucifixion, therefore it's on
earth. Peculiarly, Paul never says it's on earth. He never identifies human authorities as the
crucifiers. He never identifies a place where this crucifixion occurs. And so that's why we
can't really use this argument regarding that crucifixion can only have happened on earth.
We don't know which kind of crucifixion Paul means. Does he mean this mystical supernatural
crucifixion? Or does he mean earthly crucifixion? He doesn't say. And so we can't use this as
evidence. So historicists obviously don't have a lock on crucifixion. Now the idea of a cross,
it even applies to New Age mythosists who talk about the sun being crucified at the spring equinox
of the autumnal equinox. There are all sorts of variations on that, you know, without being able
to say that the historians have a lock on this concept. So and that's not to give credence to
that particular interpretation of crucifixion. They say that it was out there among many,
wouldn't you say? I can't comment on that particular interpretation because I haven't
looked at the sourcing on that. Right. But what I do find, what I did find sources for and found
many examples of and put, you know, the evidence of in on the history of Jesus is that battles and
deaths and burials and things were believed to take place in various levels of heaven. So
in the firmaments, in the sky and so on, so that we can't simply assume that if someone's talking
about a crucifixion that they mean on earth. You need evidence that they mean on earth. You need
some sort of indication that that's what they mean. Paul never gives us an indication. And he may
have done in some letter that was not preserved. And we know there were letters of Paul that were
not preserved, which is very interesting. Why were those letters not preserved? Why don't we get to
read them? So, but we just from what we have, we just can't determine it. So it's a non-argument,
ultimately. Man, you make me wish I had those letters. Well, I mean, even if you look in the
gospel, not only later, I would tell you, if we if we could have our wish, because the letters of
Paul we do have are actually stitches together of pieces of other letters. So we're actually missing
pieces of letters. So like, for example, the transition between 1 Corinthians 8 and 1 Corinthians
9, there's a whole chunk missing there where where Paul would have explained what he was being accused
of and then gone into his defense. But what happens is he's talking about something else in
in chapter eight, and then suddenly he's defending himself against a completely different thing
in chapter nine. We're missing the part of that letter that explains what he's talking about. And
these letters are unusually long, which suggests that they actually were originally smaller letters
that people took pieces out of and stitched together into the bigger letters that we have.
So that, in fact, like 1 Corinthians was probably like five or six different letters.
And we don't even have all the contents of those letters in 1 Corinthians were missing pieces.
And the same with the others like Rowan's and several scholars have pointed this out in various
places. It looks like these letters have been stitched together and we're missing bits. So there's
what we would want is the complete dossier of Paul's actual letters. So the original letters
to the Corinthians in their original form, which would also have had, by the way, dates,
they would be dated, they would have addresses, they would have Paul's full name usually. So
so we would have a lot more data to work with if we had the original letters of Paul. But no,
what happened is that people stripped all this stuff out, re-edited it, re-stitched them together,
got rid of bits and letters they didn't like and created a new version of Paul's letters
that they marketed. And this was marketed as an anti-Marcianite canon, essentially. So that's
the interesting thing. So if we wanted it, if we wanted what we wanted, if we wanted to have
something, we would want the original complete dossier of Paul's letters. But we're never going
to find that. I'm sure it's long since destroyed. Wow. Oh man, you got me one. I don't want to
waste too much time on that. So because there's much that we could be, that's exciting. There's
another show. We look, and by the way, we're about to get into the last round. And I know
Luther's got some stuff we're going to toss up. We've got 25 minutes, just over 25 minutes.
And I just want our audience to know that we're only doing the first 30 minute opening statement
of what Bart's brought up. So if you're, if you're wanting to, we can always go further into the
debate and deal with other statements he makes. And maybe we can get more audio clips and deal
with another one in the future. We can talk about that after the show if you want. But
this is, this is, this is awesome. You make me think real hard and wonder what
happened to those. So anyway, round 10.
If Jesus did not exist, let's just say, suppose he did not exist, then necessarily
the Christians invented him. And so the big question, if the Christians invented Jesus
as the Jewish Messiah, the, the Messiah, the Christ, would they invent the idea that as the
Messiah, he got crucified? If you work hard enough at it, you might be able to imagine
inventing a God who got killed and raised from the dead, as many Methodists say. But that's not
what Paul talks about. Paul doesn't talk about God who was crucified. God was crucified for you.
Paul talks about Christ who was crucified. First Corinthians chapter two, verse two,
we do nothing among you except for Christ and him crucified. First Corinthians chapter 15,
verses three and following, I delivered to you as a first importance, what I also received,
that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures and was buried, by the way,
he was buried a little hard to do in the outer space. Well, we already know that's
ignorance. Again, we actually have the life of Adam and Eve and which Adam and Eve, by the way,
are buried in outer space. So, so for him to say it's a little hard to be buried in outer space,
no, they, but the way they understood the construction of the cosmos back then,
there were actual grounds, castles, gardens, graveyards and so on, soil, plants, everything in
the heavens and multiple layers of heaven, right? So, so yeah, we know for a fact that they believed
in burials and outer space. So for him to actually say that that's inconceivable, just suggested he
hasn't actually studied this stuff. He clearly has not read my book because if he had, he would know
all about this and just doesn't research these things. He just makes these assertions as if he
already knows what's the case. And so that's, he really ought to look out for that because that
happens a lot with the historicists who will make these assertions about the ancient world that are
actually easily refuted with evidence from the ancient world because they didn't think to check.
I caught Ehrman doing this a lot in his book, Did Jesus Exist, where he makes a lot of assertions
about the ancient evidence that are easily refuted, simply because he didn't think to check
whether his assertions were true. And this is an example of that. But to the general argument,
right? So he says the Christians must have invented him. That's not necessarily correct
because what's happening is Christians are discovering this dying and rising savior
in Scripture. Paul outright says this. They're finding it in Scriptures and they're having
revelations confirming it to them. So this isn't invention. It could be. It's possible they invented
it and made all this other stuff up in order to sell this particular market, this particular new
religion. There's actually, I could give you a good reason why they would do that. But even
if it's not that, it could very well be that they genuinely believe God did this, that this
genuinely happened in the heavens, and it was a cosmic, great, apocalyptic event that has changed
everything. And it solves so many problems politically and socially of their time. And I
talked about all of this in On the History of Jesus. It makes complete sense in context.
And so when you look at, for example, what are their options, right? So if they're going to invent
a Messiah or imagine a spiritual Messiah, they can't invent a military conqueror because everybody
can look around and see that that hasn't happened. The only kind of Messiah they can invent is one
who achieves his goals in some hidden realm that no one sees in a way that no one can perceive other
than spiritually, other than through revelations. That's the only kind of Messiah you can invent.
So if Jesus was invented, he has to be something like that. And the whole point of this, and Paul
says it's found in Scripture, this whole point is that Jesus is kind of essentially reversing,
and you find this especially in Hebrews, by the way, Hebrews 9, not written by Paul, but
of definitely the Paulian sect, that Jesus' death is reversing the sacrifice of Isaac. So
what happens in Jewish lore is when you know the story of Abraham is summoned and he has to kill
Isaac, sacrifices firstborn son. And then God stops him and says, no, you can substitute an animal
instead. And this becomes the legend that found the Yom Kippur, the annual atonement sacrifice
of the Jews. In the Jewish temple, they would do this annual sacrifice that would atone for the sins
of the Jews and use an animal to substitute for the firstborn son. What does Jesus do?
And this is what Hebrews 9 says, Jesus is a much more powerful sacrifice because if you substitute
animals for humans, it's weak mojo. So that's why it only lasts a year and you have to keep
repeating it every year. And it requires a temple cult and all the corruption that goes with it.
But what if you could have one sacrifice that's so powerful that lasts forever,
you never have to repeat it? You don't need a temple cult anymore. And this is the whole modus
operandi of Christianity as a countercultural anti-elite sect, is they want to get rid of the
temple cult as politically irrelevant. They want to replace it. And that's the whole logic of it
you see throughout their thing, that we're no longer relying on the atonement in the temple.
We have our own atonement. It lasts forever. We don't need to repeat it. So what they need is
they need a super powerful sacrifice, something more powerful than an animal. And what is that?
We know that if you reverse the sacrifice of Isaac and actually kill the firstborn son,
that has the mojo that lasts forever. You don't need to repeat the thing. So this is the whole
logic of Christianity. When you understand this, it makes perfect sense within the cosmological
magical thinking of the people of the time. And so the crucifixion of Jesus is a necessary concept
for Christianity. They had to invent it. It actually serves this whole function. And it's
through that death that Jesus triumphs. So you triumph over everyone. And so you can find models
for this in Isaiah 52 and 53, where you have the idea of the innocent man whose death atones for
the sins of everyone. And then he is exalted and in result of that. So he's a hero, a martyr. And
they have the same thing with the martyrdom of the seven in Maccabean literature, where you have
these Jews who were crucified, their death atoned for the sins of Israel because they were heroes.
They died as heroes. This is the model that the Jews were using, the fringe Jews that started
Christianity to build Christianity out of. They're saying their savior underwent the greatest sacrifice,
simulating a lot of other savior figures around them and other cults that were competing for
attention that also had savior figures who acquired power over death by sacrificing themselves and
being killed. So this model was very common and very well accepted. It's accepted within
Jewish literature. It's accepted in all the savior cults around them. So there's nothing
weird at all about them inventing this. In fact, it makes a lot of sense in context that they would
invent or imagine themselves a dying, atoning death Messiah. So how's that? Oh, yeah, there's a lot
there. Luther, do you want to comment on that, bro? Because that's not on that specifically.
I'm going to conclude with Dr. Ehrman so we can learn a bit more personally about Richard.
Well, I thought we did our round 10. That was our round 10.
It was, yeah. Well, that was round 10. Richard, share something with us, please,
about your personal experience, about religion or morality or whatever growing up, you know,
some things that you encountered that were essential in the formation of this path that
you're on right now, if you will. Yeah. Well, I mean, first of all, we're talking about the
historicity of Jesus, which is not, to me, religiously relevant, right? It's interesting
as a historical question, and I think it's important for understanding the correct history
of the origins of Christianity and everything, but it has no religious significance to me.
Like, I don't need Jesus not to have existed. I was completely fine when I was a historicist
defending the historicity of Jesus because I just followed along with what is the mainstream
consensus, which is that Jesus was just an ordinary guy around whom legends and myths
accumulated, and he's not supernatural. He's not the son of God or any of that stuff.
But there was a guy that started it all, just like all these other people we can talk about
who founded religions. You could say you could compare Jesus, let's say, to Joseph Smith or
something like that. It doesn't mean everything they said or supernaturally is true, and that's
completely compatible with lots of precedents in history, completely compatible with atheism,
and so on. So there's no religious significance to me of the historicity of Jesus. You're asking
about my religious background, like my religious path, which is why am I now an atheist, and in
particular a secular humanist and a metaphysical naturalist. I mean, an ontological naturalist
or philosophical naturalist, meaning I believe nature is all that exists, and we can explain
everything by reducing it to natural phenomena, and there's ways you can define that and so on.
What got me on that path, and I tell this story for people who want the full details and all of it
in my book, Sense and Goodness Without God. In the early chapters of that, I talk about my whole
religious background and how I ended up where I am now, and to really be really brief, like I was
raised in Southern California in a family that was once a church, but it was a super-liberal
Methodist church where, you know, I would go to Sunday school and they would teach
biblical myths alongside Greek myths and not say there was any difference. It doesn't matter
whether it's literally true, it's just the moral of the story is the only thing that matters,
and so I was not in a fundamentalist sect, so I didn't find any of the egregious things
that would outrage people that end up leaving fundamentalism because of so much
anger and hate and lies and sort of barbaric modeling of the reality of the world and the
human psyche and all this stuff. There's a lot of really toxic stuff in fundamentalist Christianity,
and I wasn't exposed to any of that, so I never had like a bad experience with Christians per se
until long after that. It was when I started getting politically involved, and then I discovered
fundamentalism as a serious threat to society because against every single political issue
I'm trying to fight on, it's always the fundamentalist Christians who are against me,
and that was an eye-opening moment, and then I started studying fundamentalist Christians and
arguing with them, and that's what led to my path to become a counter-apologetics expert
for the atheist community, but there was a period in between where my first, I was never
expected to believe in Christianity, my family said find your own path like that, so I didn't,
I wasn't really a believer, I was never baptized, I was not a Christian believer per se.
When I was in my teens, I had a religious experience that converted me personally to
philosophical Taoism, so I actually became a meditative Taoist for many years, for many years,
probably at least, let's see, five, six, seven years, five or seven years, something like,
and even when I was in the military, I went in as a declared Taoist, so when I was at the Coast Guard
back in 90 to 92, and it was in the Coast Guard that I lost my Taoist faith, but I had this,
so I had this Eastern religious background, and I had all of these sort of religious experiences
and feelings and stuff that Christians always cite as evidence for Christianity, so I actually
have this background where I discovered all this, felt all the same things, but for a completely
different religion, which convinces me that these are not reliable arguments for the truth of a
religion, like feeling the presence of the Tao, feeling the presence of Jesus, clearly not reliable,
you're deluding yourself, you're actually, your brain is constructing this experience for you,
and lots of other aspects of it, like how it made my life so much better and made me a happier
person and all of that stuff, just the same things that Christians claim, so that was a very useful
model to have gone through that experience, it was the only religion that I had faith in in my
whole life, and I kept doing scientific research, and it resulted in scientific research and studying
more Eastern philosophy, so like the Confucians who argue against the Taoists and vice versa,
and came to, came to agree that Taoism was just a man-made philosophy that the flawed and that
my religious experiences had scientific explanations and were not like legitimate evidence,
and that's when I realized like, well, if this isn't true, what is, and that led me to study
Western philosophy more and got into, that's what led me to atheism and naturalism and secular
humanism and all of that. Now Richard, as you, as you came out politically and you became more
active, and you had these encounters with fundamentalist Christians, I'm reminded of what
Bishop John Spong once said, that fundamentalist Christians have been on the wrong side of every
social issue throughout history, the wrong side of slavery, of women's suffrage, of homosexuality,
of capital punishment, even on democracy, so there's not a real, not a really good record there,
and so here you are, yeah exposed to this, and you had a pivotal year in your studies, 2008,
that was an important year for you Richard, tell us why. Oh yeah, 2008, that's when I completed my
PhD, and which my dissertation was on ancient science, which is my latest books, are The Scientist
in the Early Roman Empire and Science Education in the Early Roman Empire, which are basically
expanded versions, popularized versions of my dissertation, but in 2008, of course, the economy
collapsed the same year, right, so there was a freeze on hires for humanities departments,
so basically I couldn't get employed and no one could, no freshly minted. Humanities,
PhDs had much luck getting jobs just then, and I needed to make, you know, income, so I, and I
had already built a fan base through my writing, and so I appealed to my fans and said, okay, well,
let's do this, like if you can pay down my student debt, and I said about $20,000
of outstanding student debt, if we can raise the money to pay that off, I'll treat that as a research
grant and apply it to, apply my PhD to, to any subject you want, the, whatever the donors want,
and they raised the money, and all the donors unanimously said, historicity of Jesus, we want
you to give us, give us an objective analysis, whether it's pro, whether it's con, it doesn't
matter, we don't care what the results will be, we just want to know what the results are
from an objective assessment from someone who has a PhD in ancient history doing this, and so that
led my, to a six-year research project that resulted in multiple books, multiple peer-reviewed
journal articles, and so on, on this subject, and that's how I became one of the leading
defenders of Jesus' mythicism, is because that's what I found out in through, through my research
was really the most defensible position, really, and that surprised me, actually, and so that's how
I end up here, talking about the historicity of Jesus, that's how I have a peer-reviewed academic
press book on the historicity of Jesus, and so on, it was simply because of the economy collapsing
in 2008, and my getting my PhD exactly that year. Derek, you want to say something?
Wow, oh my gosh, Richard, man, I really, really, really appreciate you, because
you know, it's rare that you find people like this, I've been told to be, be careful, because
you're hardcore, and you might punch me, you know what I mean, you're just one of those guys who's
tough, you know, and I say that because you can ask Luther, I'm pretty blunt, I say what I think,
and you know, I'm like you, we're just trying to get to the bottom of some of these things.
You, you know, you took the chance to come out here and come onto the water boys with me and
Luther, and we want to, obviously, personally thank you for that, but we're wrapping it up,
we've got 10 minutes, I really have so much more I would love to talk to you about, but I feel like
we need to do some segments, and we can have another show, and how do people help support you?
I know you're, you survive off patronage, so is there certain websites, I'm going to put all
this in the description on the YouTube, as well as this, I'll make sure you get all that information
too, so you could share it, but how do they help you? Yeah, links to everything are on my website
at richardcarrier.info, in particular, you can see where the top menu items is, how to help,
I think is what it's called, let me check that, it's been a while since I've looked at it,
which has a whole, actually has a list of like several ways that you can help support my work,
including like buying my books, especially if you do it through my website, I get
commissions on that and things like that for sales. There's other, yeah, how to help, that's it,
yeah, so, but the best way of course is to just become a patron on Patreon, and there's a link
there that you can go right to my Patreon page, there are some perks to being a patron on Patreon,
that you can take advantage of, it's explained on my Patreon page, you can go check that out,
and it can be as little as a dollar a month, basically, or a dollar per blog post, and I do
usually four paying blogs a month, so it'd be four dollars a month, or more, like if you want to
offer more money, this really is like my primary income, is my Patreon blog support, and it allows
me to do this full time, allows me to engage on social media more, and allows me to like write
really good detailed blogs for four a month, that otherwise it'd be too exhausting, and I'd
probably write way less often if I didn't have that, so I really do cherish and I'm so glad for
my Patreon patrons, so that is one way to do it, and there are others, you can check it out on the
How to Help page on my website, and so on. Richard, we have a link for your fine work,
and there is an economic import, there's a big one, this is, and there are some dangers
that you sometimes face, for example, the case of Mike Lacona, and his controversy about Matthew
chapter 27, verses 52 and 53, I think about, he questioned that, he suggested that perhaps it
was parable in allegory, what happened with that, what was the outcome, you remember that Richard?
Oh, yeah, no, I mean he still, he got some people supported him on that, but a lot of people didn't,
he lost the job, I think he got a new job somewhere else, but yes, no, there's a lot of that,
David Fitzgerald in his book, Jesus Missing in Action, I think it's only one, gives many examples,
there's a lot of examples of this where even daring to like smooth just a tiny little bit
and admitting there's any little drop of myth in the Bible will get you fired, or will get you
punished, or will get you ostracized, or in this field, and there are a lot of scholars who work,
a lot of these apologists who have PhDs and stuff and are professorships, have actually
signed agreements where they've declared that they will never challenge these things,
so they basically signed away their academic freedom, and we know this is fairly common in
the field of biblical studies, so you do need to be aware of that as a problem.
I think, yeah, I think Peter N lost a job somewhere, I think he got another job subsequently,
but he's the scholar, you may be familiar with him too, Derek, who has the Adam as Israel thesis,
instead of Adam being the father of the whole human race, and that was kind of dicey for a moment there,
but as we wrap up, how do you think Richard Mithises have helped historians and really
everybody, even preachers, to do their work better? Why do we need Mithises in the mix,
do you think? Mithises in the mix? Yeah, because it forces us to re-examine a bunch of assumptions
that have just been passed on as consensus, even though they've never really been adequately defended,
and sometimes the actual false information that becomes spread around as if it was an established
fact, like, for example, that some people will claim that Paul says he learned the gospel from
those who were in Christ before him. In actual fact, he says exactly the opposite of that,
he outright denies it vehemently, and so there's a lot of this false information and a lot of
like weak assumptions that don't get examined because people are just running in these ruts
of assumptions, whereas if you look at that, even if you don't conclude that Mithises is true,
the mere effort of trying to analyze things through that lens can lead you to realize and
discover lots of things, lots of assumptions are false that you might have been relying on,
it can lead you to discover lots of things about the ancient world and the origins of
Christianity that will actually help you understand even historical Jesus better,
so there's so much value to this, because it's so much upset, this sort of rolling train
of assumptions that Christian scholarship is based on and forces you to re-examine them all,
no matter how you end up after the re-examination, just the fact that it makes you re-examine them
is in and of itself valuable and bears fruit, so I think it's really important, it's as important
as all the other contradictory versions of the historical Jesus that are treated as respectable
theories alternatively, right, so if you're going to talk about Jesus was actually a violent zealot,
for instance, like if that's going to be taken seriously and that's a new lens to look through
things, even if you don't buy it in the end, then Mithises fits in there too, it's just yet another
of these competing theories, it definitely deserves examination.
But before we wrap up, I should mention that that brings me to remind people
that I have, I actually have an app on Google Play and Apple for mobile devices called Crestus,
and it's still skeletal right now, I've got a bunch of updates I've got to put into it,
but it's going to grow into, it'll ultimately have all the arguments for and against the
historicity of Jesus with references and so on, so that you can actually
map out these arguments just like we've done today with the Bart Ehrman thing,
and right now, like I said, it's a little skeletal, but it's got stuff in there,
it's still useful and I'm going to build it out even more, so people should be aware of that,
and also, I teach an online course, I do about nine different subjects one a month online,
and for average people, for ordinary folks, and one of them is historicity of Jesus,
another is, or we examine all the evidence in detail, another is Pro-Ancon,
and another is New Testament Studies, which is going on now, actually,
where it's this introduction to how do you understand the Bible, how can you study it,
even if you don't read Greek, there's lots of tools and tricks and things to learn and understand,
and then you can ask all these questions that you might have, if you can ask an actual PhD in
ancient history, questions all you want, you've got, you've paid for his time, so for people who
want to join that, you can go to Secular Academy, just Google Secular Academy, and you can register
there and join my class any month, there's a different class on these topics and others,
so those are two things that people who are interested in this subject should be aware of.
That is awesome, I am going to be looking into that myself, so how do you spell the app?
Crestus, so C-H-R-E-F-T-U-S.
Alrighty, ladies and gentlemen, Dr. Richard Carrier and Dr. Luther G. Williams,
as well as Derek Lambert here on The Water Boys, stay tuned, I'm going to be hopefully doing another
episode with Dr. Carrier, thank you for coming on. Yeah, thank you for having me on, this has been a
great show. Great pleasure to have you Richard. I appreciate it. Well, until next time, The Water Boys.
you
