Welcome back to MythVision Podcast. I'm your host, Derek Lambert. I want to do a video
tribute to Michael S. Heizer, Dr. Heizer, who was a scholar, a Hebrew Bible scholar,
and a huge impact on my life while within Christianity and, of course, also even outside
of Christianity. He had me think in many ways that you typically won't hear Christian scholars
that I've engaged with at least think like that he's brilliant, brilliant mind. Yeah,
we had disagreements, but what human doesn't. So I wanted to take a moment to unite in something
ubiquitous that humans all experienced. And that is that we all are going to die one day.
We're all going to face death. And Dr. Michael Heizer died of cancer at the end, but he kept
strong and he did everything he could. I'd hope any of us could do in such a serious
situation going through such a painful end to one's life. Well, he left a lot behind
though, left a lot of information behind. And I still listen to some of this stuff from
time to time, just reminiscing and also learning different ideas, different perspectives. I
encourage people who watch MythVision to listen to multiple angles, not just their own, not
just from skeptics like MythVision may have a lot of critical skeptical scholars. It's
important that we try to listen and understand where people are coming from, even if we find
that we disagree on some things. So I did an interview last year, year before last 2020,
I think it was with Dr. Heizer on his book, Demons. And it was really interesting. I didn't
tell him one time during our interview or even at all. I don't even think he knew that
I was a skeptic. He might have come across the video later, but it didn't matter. I was
learning. And what he does is unique. He's going into the ancient Near Eastern context.
He's trying to dive in and do his best and understanding how that world may have impacted
the authors of the Bible. Anyone who does that, I give credit to. Even if you think they
could only go to so far, if you're skeptical, you're like, well, he could only go so far.
Dr. Heizer made me think outside of the box in many ways. In fact, the whole Divine Council
and Genesis, it hit me in the face when he was the first one who actually brought this
to me as a Christian. You know, you can go to outside of Christianity and find this a
critical scholarship, but like, he was saying, no, cut it out. Genesis 127, let us make man
in our image is not the Trinity. This is the Divine Council. So it was like, ooh, what?
And it made sense in an ancient Near Eastern context. So I hope that in this video and
in our chat today, we can be positive and respectful. Even if we disagree, we can point
out things we may have agreed or disagreed. I'm hoping that I could have Dr. Kip Davis
join me as well. He being a Hebrew Bible scholar, Dead Sea School scholar and knowing
the Hebrew to have him come on and show some love, maybe give us Smith vision fans, a little
bit of attention. But I figure because Michael Heiser had a huge impact on me as a Christian
for many years, the least I could do is show respect and attribute to him. He has had a
major impact. So I can't thank him enough. And maybe a moment of silence before we, you
know, start our little intro and get into a recording that I did with him. And I'm going
to share my screen with you all. So all right, let's start our intro. Son, do you want to
know what the truth is? After this, there's no turning back. You take the blue pill and
you wake up in your bed and believe whatever you want to. You take the red pill and you
stay in Wonderland. And I show you just how deep the rabbit hole goes. Remember, all I'm
offering is the truth. Nothing more.
I'm going to show you just how deep the rabbit hole goes.
I'm going to show you just how deep the rabbit hole goes.
Thank you so much for the love in the chat, everybody. I really appreciate that. And I'm
glad that everybody here has shown positivity. I totally second what Melody said, no matter
who it is, death is hard. And Heiser, you know, suffered at the end. I'm glad he's no
longer suffering. That's the only thing that came to mind when my wife's best friend overdosed
from drug addiction. It's a long kind of funny story, but I was supposed to go and give the
eulogy. I didn't know that they had me planned to do the whole funeral. And I'm no longer
a Christian, per se. And then I show up at this funerary home and I walk inside and sure
enough, they were like Pastor Lambert. And I was like, Oh, snap. So I ended up having
to be Pastor Lambert for my wife's best friend's funeral. But at the end of the day, all I
could think about, even as someone who doesn't necessarily, oh, Kip Davis is coming soon,
doesn't necessarily believe like I was in there thinking this girl really, really struggled.
And I think the same for Michael S. Heiser. Dr. Heiser at the end, you're dealing with
cancer. Like I saw a post on Facebook where he was struggling with blood. He had a loss
of blood and stuff. That man had to suck at the end. My uncle Bubba died of brain cancer.
It sucked at the end. So they're no longer suffering. And for that, I am grateful, even
if we're, you know, missing somebody valuable in our community as humans. So I hope that
this can be a uniting episode where no matter where we come from, if Michael Heiser has
impacted you in a positive way, I dropped a Q&A and I'm hoping people in the chat can
show that love, their condolences, their respect for somebody like him. He did think outside
the box. He pushed the boundaries of what I would say typical Christians go, right?
Because you get comfortable, you get in your traditions. Michael Heiser was out there exploring.
He may have his own limitations. I'm sure I have my own limitations. Everybody's got
certain limitations, I suspect. And so that's what I want to do today. I want to just give
him some love and respect. I think he deserves, especially since he really has played a huge
part of my life. So I'm going to present his website here. I mean, I want you all to go
subscribe. He's got a YouTube channel here. I suspect this is my thoughts. Dr. Heiser was
a married man. He had a family. So I suspect subscribing, watching videos of his that are
monetized, the funds will probably go to his family to help out his family. Anyways, you can
help in ways I'm sure just by getting ahold of his books, checking out the podcast, watching his
stuff on YouTube. He's got a website I put in the description as well. And there's a video that I
also recorded with him and that was in September the 25th, 2020. So we did that and he did not
know that I wasn't a Christian at the time. I didn't even convey that I went into this wanting to
educate myself, educate you who watch MythVision, his book called Demons. And he goes back what I
found interesting historically about it, whether he actually believes they existed or not, like what
I found historical was interesting, how they thought about, you know, the wilderness and that
there was like, there was a God or lowercase g what we would call demons and such out in the
wilderness and where that evolution starts to take place within the Hebrew Bible that you see in
late Second Temple Judaism. I learned a lot from that book. I think it was like a 400 page book,
something like that. I can't remember. It's been a couple years. But he hung out with me. And then I
asked him some pretty tough questions too in the interview. And we're going to go over those. I hope
with Dr. Kip Davis joining us. That's my goal. So everybody sees my analytics or video. In case
you're a YouTuber, I use TubeBuddy. It helps me like when I'm putting tags and stuff. So TubeBuddy
is what I use if you're trying to like see your analytics and check out other analytics, helps you
stay in the game. Anyway, Dr. Kip, have you restarted yet? And are you back? Dr. James Tabor,
hold on, someone says James Tabor. Hello, Dr. Tabor. Is he in the chat? Oh, there he is. James
Tabor in the house, everybody. Very deserved, Eric. Michael and I were good colleagues. He
responded very graciously to my resurrection ideas. Wow. Dr. Tabor, thank you for showing up. I know
that you, we've spent some alone time and quiet time, even when we traveled in the Holy Land and
stuff. And I really do appreciate you. And it means a lot to hear you show up in the chat like
that. So, Kip's coming. Kip's coming. I'd love to get Dr. Tabor to join in the feed. I don't know,
it's James, if you're watching, let me know. I'll send you a link. Let me know if that's something
you'd be willing to do for a few minutes. I know I can't keep much of your time, but it's up to
you. Don't be cringe. This Derek will reconvert before the end. Believe it. None believer,
Lambert of God. Thank you. Thank you so much. Yeah, Cheryl. He was a voice to curiosity. He
will be missed. Indeed. Harmonic atheist in the house, Tim, good to see you here. It was so strange
how he understood so much about the mythology behind Enoch and the Old Testament, yet clung to
the hope that the Bible's mythology was the one exception and was real. It baffled me. I'll tell
you. I can relate to thinking that mine was the one and only, but I can't relate to once I started
realizing how prevalent the stories were out there that I thought mine was the only true one.
When I found that out, my personal experience was to go, maybe God's bigger than just the Bible.
Maybe this universal principle or spirit or whatever you want to call it is what guides all
mankind through their various traditions and tropes and religions and whatnot in their holy
books. That's what I thought for a while. I couldn't remain this one's true. Everyone else is wrong,
but everybody seems to have different experiences on how they do that. So appreciate you, Tim.
Oh, Dr. Tabor said send me the link. I'll send you the link right now. I really appreciate you.
It's good to have you joining me too. I'm sending it on WhatsApp, James.
All right. There we go. I just sent it. All right. And I'm going to get this audio here
prepared while we're waiting on people to join in and then I'll stop it and we'll chat and we'll go
from there. Here's demons.
Please consider joining our Patreon to help us grow as well as like, share, comment and subscribe.
Demons. Michael S. Heiser. What the Bible really says about the powers of darkness. Guys, this is
going to be a great show. I being a skeptic, as you all know, watching my channel, I'm a very
friendly guy though. I can communicate with many people from various backgrounds, world views.
Michael Heiser has a different worldview than me. Dr. Heiser presents evidence though in his book,
based off the biblical narrative, that what the ancients actually believed about their own
worldview is described quite well, I believe, in his book when it comes to Elohim, demons,
refie, giants, the whole thing. Fallen angels, the demon, possessions and exorcisms, you name it.
He also draws up other sources. I was shocked to read this in his book as a skeptic myself,
where most Christians are shy from going towards extra biblical material. You guys will really
enjoy this one. We are Myth Vision. Welcome back, your host, Derek Lambert. I have a special show
today. Let me go ahead and introduce the gentleman. We're going to be talking about his book, Demons.
Be sure to go into the description, get this book. It's not only readable for layperson,
but it has some depth to it, scholarly depth to it. Dr. Michael S. Heiser is the executive director
for the Awakening School of Theology and Ministry in Jacksonville, Florida. He is the
author of numerous best-selling books, including Angels, 15 Realms, For Natural, and the Bible
Unfiltered. He earned his PhD in Hebrew Bible and Communication Sciences, and holds an MA in
Ancient History in Hebrew Studies. I've watched this gentleman years and years ago on YouTube,
he shot down some of the ancient alien concepts, but he piqued my interest on what's going on
in the Bible in Genesis 3, Genesis 6, and other areas. With that being said, welcome to the show,
Dr. Heiser. Yeah, thanks for having me. Thank you. You wrote this book, Demons. When I started
open, I said, wow, this is a lot of information right on one topic. Is this just going to be
focused on demons itself? There is a history to this. You need to really kind of
all right, all right. I'm pausing mine. I'm going to go ahead and pop you up here, Kip. And
I think we'll return to playing certain clips of this that I found interesting.
This is a tribute, of course, but are you frozen? Are you still, are you here?
He must be frozen.
Everybody, if you think that Kip's going to get an apotheosis one day, press one in the chat.
Let me get a one in the chat by everybody who thinks Dr. Kil will have an apotheosis.
He's in very deep thought, very, very deep thought. We lost him. Oh, Kip, Kip, get your
internet right, my friend. Look, we got a lot of fans here saying you're going to get,
you're going to get an apotheosis. He just had one right in front of your own eyes.
Everybody, he has a missing body. He's part of the topos. Let's continue this until he comes back.
Go back and take a trip back and you talk about something and anyone who reads your book, which
I truly recommend, I got it on ebook. If I had a hard copy, I'd be bragging right now showing it
to everybody, but he's laughing at me. I hope that's a laugh of saying like, okay, okay, cool,
man. Thanks for bragging on my book. I appreciate it. Or he's going, this guy's weird.
This is through three, if you will, catastrophic events that happen in the biblical narrative.
Genesis 3, Genesis 6, Genesis 11, finalizing at the Tower of Babel, and this worldview permeates
in Deuteronomy 32. What I also appreciated about Dr. Heizer is he didn't just have the
worldview permeate in Deuteronomy 32. He did some connections to Paul and Paul saw the table of nations
and the, what happens with the Tower of Babel early on in the Genesis narrative that Paul's
actually using some of that, I almost want to say anti-diluvian, but also post-diluvian,
post-flood account with why people split in the nation's divide and stuff. He kind of has this
idea of the nations in mind and it's bigger, broader, more universal. So I think that's pretty
interesting, pretty interesting. Making sure everybody's in the chat here. Didn't want to
miss anybody. If you want to slap me in the face with something, feel free to super chat.
Of course, it helps us keep doing what we're doing, but let's continue.
Biblical narrative on top of Second Temple tradition utilizes these concepts. And so
with that being said, if you would launch us off into an introduction here.
Yeah, I should ask you first, have you read Unseen Realm before you read Demons?
No, sir. Okay. Well, for those of your listeners who may have, I should orient them a little bit.
Unseen Realm is sort of the book that I'm most known for. It is a Genesis to Revelation
run through. Basically, it's a systematic dot connecting. It's building the matrix or a
framework for understanding scripture for you, but it's a Genesis to Revelation
work that unfolds the biblical metanarrative, the biblical story, story of biblical theology,
with a specific eye toward how the Unseen World intentionally intersects with our world.
So, you know, my taglines for that are typically things like, you know, I want the Israelite living
in your head when you read the Old Testament. I want the first century Jew living in your head
when you read the New Testament. I don't want to hear about interpreting in context anymore,
unless you're willing to do it. Okay. And I'm talking worldview. So if you're filtering the
Bible or interpreting your Bible in accord with, you know, 21st century evangelicalism or charismatic
movement of the reform guys, you know, all of these things are post biblical contexts by definition.
They are not the context for the biblical writer and his original readers at any point.
So, you know, when you think about it, it's, it almost sounds dumb because it's the simplest
thing in the world. Okay. It's very obvious. They weren't us. News flash. Okay. You know,
they weren't. And so if, you know, if you're, if you have a lot of Bible under your belt, but you
sort of have always, that's a big point, like audience relevance and who this is written to
and how they understood things, cultural, historical context, all of that stuff.
I think that Michael's trying to bridge the academic world and make it applicable to Christians
that aren't used to thinking in those terms because a lot of Christians from, trust me,
I came from this, this point of view, like they act like first Corinthians was written to them.
I mean, I'm not, I'm not saying that they wouldn't verbally say it's not,
but they act like the literature is written directly to them. And I don't know if you,
I can relate to some, you know, some way I can relate to this by like the times I've walked
into church and then the pastor's talking about something, he's given a sermon, then all of a
sudden you're like, he's talking about me. How does he know he's talking about me? But really,
there's like 500 people at this church or 200 people or a hundred people, whatever,
like he's just giving a generic message that seems to be the common thing that most people
struggle with or can use encouragement with or whatever it might be. And so I think that what
Michael's trying to do is say, hey, it still has applicability, but you really, you don't know what
you're reading if you're not understanding what, what it meant, what it was originally
saying in its, in its original context, which is why I was really impressed as a Christian going,
oh my goodness, when I heard Michael Heiser, it's like, no Christian's been doing that,
not in the way that he does. And he had a patience in his voice where he could take you through and
you didn't feel threatened. You didn't feel any type of coerciveness in what he was saying. He,
he laid it out, you accept it or you don't, you move on. That's something about him that I really
appreciate it a lot. Checking the chat, making sure that nobody's missing out. Okay, okay. Hold
on one second, Kip wrote me. I don't know what, what's happened. I'm trying to fix it, but the
whole system just conked out. Don't worry, we're here for you, Kip. Come down from where you,
where you have ascended on high. We know you're, we know you're going to come back down. You're
going to get rejected soon. I really appreciate it. Oh snap, we got a guest. All right, pause in the
video. We have none other than the legend, the living legend, Dr. James D. Tabor. Welcome.
Thanks, Derek. Yeah, I just got a notification. I didn't know you were doing this. We, we didn't
get to talk today. And we've been working on that Mark course and this Zoom meeting we're
going to have on March 5th. So I'll just put that out there. That's right. Take the Mark
course. You get to meet with us for two hours discussing Mark. Can you imagine anybody that's
a student? But yeah, Michael, I saw him at, you know, SBL meetings, Society of Biblical Literature,
and we spoke and we, in that sense, knew each other professionally. But mainly,
we carried on a pretty intense email conversation. And one, I think I put it in the chat. I could try
to text it to you if I didn't. But one article he wrote, it's on his website. Did you happen to
see that link? Let me go. I can go find you. You want me to open it, his website? No, I sent you
the link to... On WhatsApp? Where he's responding. No, I put it in the chat. Hold on. I got a history
here. I don't think it allows you to put links in the comments. No, it let me. Okay, I'll send it to
your... I want people to know it because you're going to see the graciousness of this guy. He was
responding to all my stuff about resurrection and particularly a post that I put out called
Why People Are Confused about the earliest Christian view of resurrection of the dead.
And what he says is, I want readers to know upfront that Tabor's post is quite good,
stimulating, thoughtful, ironic in tone, just plain old good stuff for those who enjoy
biblical studies scholarship. Now, you get the point. Let me send you the link.
Comment right now, just say, hey, I'll make you a mod so you can actually post the link,
because I don't think it'll let you without it. You'll make me a what? I'll make a moderator so
that it'll allow you... I can send it to you. Okay, yeah, you could do that. What's that? Anyway,
just so people, we don't have to bring it up and read it now, but what an introduction.
Here's somebody that is arguing that Jesus is dead and not divine, and he knows my views.
And yet I have a... I've devoted 40 years to trying to understand the historical Jesus,
his importance for Western civilization. And frankly, I don't spend... I didn't spend 40 years
on Plato. I spent probably two or three years on Plato in Homer because I majored in Greek in college,
but I've spent 40 years studying Jesus of Nazareth. So there's something there. You could say, yeah,
but he's the most influential person in history, and he probably is. And the second would probably be
Paul, although now I'm arguing that it's Mary, his mother, that's the most influential. But we'll
get to that. But anyway, just look at how Michael responds in... Did you say that? I didn't send it
yet. I just read you the opening. It's just so gracious, and it shows what an absolute gentleman
he is. And look how he says that it's good. I mean, to say this about a scholar, I'm a critical
scholar, but as you know, I'm... He calls me ironic. That's kind of a compliment.
James Tabor or an essay. He can read that. And he's very respectful, and he writes back and then
go to the comments because we go back and forth extensively discussing resurrection.
So think about it to get Michael, there in James Tabor, debate it, and he believes in the literal
body, resurrection of the dead, and so forth. And then this book, Michael, put me back on full,
because people can get the URL. You can put it in the... Do you put notes in your lives?
You know, he wrote a lot of books, but this book, particularly the unseen realm,
anybody interested in biblical studies should read this book, because you already said that, that
he's talking... I've had people... You know how I took you up to Mount Hermon?
We went up to that restaurant right at the foot of Mount Hermon. People emailed me later and said,
oh, you're at Mount Hermon. Did you know Michael said that's the seat of all the gods in the ancient
Near East and so forth? It makes sense with what happens. It is. Well, here's the difference.
Michael believed these things, like the Bene Elohim sitting in the council,
and Yahweh is among them. What is it? Psalm 82 was one of his main texts. So you've got all
kinds of scholars that you've interviewed in the Hebrew Bible that talk about the same thing,
but they think it's mythology. You know, it's just typical ancient Near Eastern mythology.
So the great thing about Michael is not just opening as King James Bible and quoting it
like a fundamentalist, you know, with no sense of history. He knows the history. He believes
and did believe that if you look... And I should still believe because Michael thinks he's up
with the council of the gods right now, and maybe he is, and God bless him. But anyway,
it's a great book and everything about angels and principalities and powers that works into the New
Testament. I mean, you know, why would I recommend a book written by someone who's... He's not a
fundamentalism is a weird word, but I think he thought the Bible was certainly inspired by God.
Aaron is a tricky word because what do you mean? Like there's not a single letter wrong or something
like that. He's a conservative scholar. He certainly believed the Bible was the word of God and a
revelation. Well, then we need to... If we're going to study it, we should know what it says. And
look at the table of contents of this book is incredible. It's basically all the stuff I worked
on on my PhD. You know, Paul's ascent to paradise. I have to know about levels of heaven, angels,
principalities, powers. Paul calls them heights, depths, things above, things below the lower
world, the upper world. Michael's the guy for that. Now, what you finally decide about it,
you know, we all have our different views and presuppositions about reality. I personally don't
tend to take those things literally, but I do think the universe is much more mysterious than
any kind of reductionist, this reductionistic person who thinks we've basically explained
everything would say. I think consciousness is the great mystery. So my go-to guy is Robert
Cune on Closer to Truth because he interviews and Lex Freeman. Those are the two guys that bring
everybody from theologians to scientists. Well, I don't think Robert ever interviewed Michael,
but he could have. He could have very easily interviewed Michael and it wouldn't be like,
why are you having that Bible thumper on? Because he's not a Bible thumper, if you know what I mean.
So anyway, I love him. And when I heard he had cancer, I wrote him and I was so sad.
And, you know, pancreatic cancer, man, it's fast and it's horrible. And so I really,
I'm going to miss him. You know, as I got onto YouTube and he was doing YouTube,
I was thinking I would have him on to talk about the heavenly world as he understood it.
And I didn't know he had cancer. But if you go to his YouTube channel, he was speaking right
up to the end. I looked the other day and you could check. I think some of them might be,
and I could be mistaken, but it could be older. But yeah, like repeats of like clips from from
lectures. I do. I didn't check it carefully, but it did look like some of it. You'd have to look
at the dates. Yeah. Yeah, that's right. They could have put up something. But in some of those,
actually, you're right. Yeah. See, he was looking frail. He knew he was, he knew he was dying.
Yeah. Wow. Look at him just holding forth. And he's a beautiful man. He's such a beautiful man.
He's super kind. When I talked to him, he was, like I said, he doesn't make you feel
threat at all. You know, and I appreciate you, Derek, for this approach that you take constantly
with people because we have radical, I don't mean politically, but let's say in our little Bible
world, radical left, radical right. We got crazy people. We got all these people, people that
have visions and revelations themselves. Look at our comments on YouTube. Almost every day I get
somebody said, I talked to Jesus this morning. Well, they probably think they do. Yeah. And
I mean, they obviously think they do. I don't think they're making it up.
But I love the way you try to say, let's always be respectful. Let's listen. We can always learn.
And even if you completely disagree with what somebody says, and after all, critical scholars
don't agree. That's what makes it so fun, actually, that if you all agree, what are you doing?
You know, Paul Williams had, what's his name, Ali? Is it Albion? He's really sharp. He's a
Muslim professor, has a PhD. He had him on the other day, and I listened to him, and I just
completely did not agree with things he was saying. And he's a very devout Muslim, and he was trying
to defend it rationally. And, but he mentioned Bart Ehrman, he mentioned me, he mentioned Paula
Friedrichsen, he mentioned Dale Allison. So I know he's been watching your stuff.
Well, that's a good time. I like the guy because I thought he would be somebody,
not just that you would debate with, you know, everybody always wants to debate,
like I'll stand up for 20 minutes and make my points, and then you make your points,
and then I'll have five minutes to refute you, and you'll have five minutes to refute me, you know.
And typically, it's like two sides of a basketball game, you know, like everybody's
cheering their guy. And is anybody listening and deciding, well, man, you know, I wonder how all
this could work out together. You know, maybe my bottom line on fundamentalism is the quote,
to be a fundamentalist, you have to have a holy book, this is in the West, you have to have a
holy book, and you have to forget that that book has a history. And I don't know who first said
that, if somebody can identify it, I appreciate it. Might have been Ron Hindle, I don't know, but
I love it. Yeah, Ronald Hindle's got some good stuff. You have a holy book, and then you say,
I just read it, and whatever it says, well, more and more evangelical Christians are not
doing that either. Like Michael, they're learning the background. They're not just to debate somebody,
because they want to understand, and Michael was an expert in Hebrew, and Greek, and biblical
languages and history, so. Well, I know that because our trip to Israel, you had some that were
evangelicals, but they were way more open-minded than, you know, the fundamentalist. And I have
people who support me on Patreon to keep doing what I'm doing, and they say they write me privately,
I disagree with you, but what a value of me. Well, I call these guys high-end evangelicals,
they're my friends. David Capes, Craig Evans, Michael Heiser, these guys, they're, you know,
they're just top-notch scholars. They work side by side with the Academy, with all the
main people in the Academy. We rub shoulders at all the annual meetings, and we disagree on some of
our presuppositions. But, I mean, that's what I like about Bart, too, is he comes from that, Bart
Ehrman. Most people, we live in such a club, I can just say Bart. You should know who Bart is. Yeah.
But you work with him a lot, too. And Bart will, you know, just tell you, no, I don't think that's
right. No, just know that. But he's willing to consider a lot of things that people wouldn't
consider. You know, and he came from that background in terms of, you know, a more fundamentalist faith.
So true. Where's, where's Kip? Kip, where are you at, man? Come on, we're waiting on you. I think you
had an apotheosis earlier, but don't worry, I promise the gods are interjecting. You know,
I want to do this new course, Jesus and the Dead Sea Scrolls. And Kip and I need to get on with some
Dead Sea Scroll stuff, too, sometimes. So let's make that happen. Yeah. Jamie Russell, Christian
Middle Earth said, for Tabor, day, year in apocalyptic literature. Okay. Well, I guess it's, it's a double
thing. I just did a, I did a two part video on my YouTube channel, JamesTavorVideos.com.
And it's called the Peril of Predicting Bible Prophecy, the Peril of Predicting the End of the
Age. And in that, I think it's in part two more, I deal with how people calculate. And one of the
ways people calculate is they take a verse out of Psalm 90. I think it's, it would be in recent
uploads if you just look on down. But anyway, they can find it. It's called Bible Prophecy. And,
by the way, I've started sharing my notes. So when you watch the video, you actually have my notes.
Where I'm talking about that. And I deal with the Dead Sea Scroll community and how they
interpreted the 490 years in Daniel 9 and the so-called 70 weeks prophecy. But one of the things
that they do, and I've been trying to trace the oldest example of this, is a day with the Lord
as a thousand years and a thousand years is a day. Now that's from 2 Peter. So you've actually got a
late Second Temple Jesus movement writer worried about the fact that the end isn't coming, right?
Kip is very familiar with this in the Dead Sea Scrolls. The time is at hand. You know, Isaiah 40,
this is the time for preparing the way in the wilderness. Well, how long are you going to
prepare the way for like the next thousand years or what? You know, they obviously thought it was
coming soon. As did John the Baptist, who begins with that very quote. And Jesus saying the time
is fulfilled. So I deal with all that. So this day is a thousand years is a really weird thing,
because it comes from Psalm 90 and that I believe is attributed to Moses. But, you know,
we'll leave that for a minute. But it does say something along the lines of
a thousand years in your sight, O Lord, are but a day. Now the idea there is that God is
eternal and age-lasting. And you know how kids say, Hey, it's been a minute, you know,
which means what today and kind of wrap talk. Yeah, man, good to see you. So with God,
it's been a minute. You say like 2000 years since Jesus was here. Hey, man. So Psalm 90, look it up.
A day in the eyes of the Lord Yahweh, Jehovah, is a thousand years. Okay, so what second Peter does
is he goes, Oh, a day is a thousand years. So you have six days of creation followed by a thousand
years, millennium. So history is going to last a day for a year. They also go to the book of numbers
where the Israelites come out of Egypt, and they're punished for 40 years for that generation. And
then there's this reference to a day for a year as well. You also get it in Ezekiel. The earliest
Christian thing I remember, Kip, is the epistle of Barnabas. I think it's in the epistle of Barnabas,
where he says something like the world's going to last 6000 years. The problem with those guys
back then is they all want it to be their time. See, so you know, forget Bishop Usher saying it was
404 BC, that it needs to be basically like around the first century CE, so that it can get in the
Dead Sea Scroll Group, Jesus, John the Baptist. Once the temple's destroyed and you get into the
second third century, you can't keep stretching that stuff out. You know, it kind of breaks down.
I mean, the 490 years breaks down easily by 70, but I would save in 100 years before that. So you
could keep stretching it, but Peter is saying, in effect, there's no way to calculate it. Like,
people misquote that. He doesn't say count a day as a thousand years, so it's going to be 6000 years
till Christ comes. That's not what he's saying. What he's saying is to God, you think it's been
really long. The Lord is not slow concerning his promises. Remember that verse? But his long
suffering and wants everybody to repent, so he's prolonging the age. Habakkuk Peshir,
that I know Kip knows well, it exceeds all the calculations of the prophets. So what we need
to tell people now from the Dead Sea Scrolls is even if you calculated it and it failed,
it doesn't matter. The prophet never fails, why? Because God keeps going like this. It's elastic.
That's what Peter's saying. He's not saying count the day as a thousand years. He's saying,
you guys say it's been a long time. It's been a minute. It's been a minute. God is outside of time.
But anyway, people get into this and people are coming up with all kinds of chronologies based
on the Maserati texts. Now, if you go to the LXX, the Septuagint, or Josephus, you have two other
chronologies. So, you know, the numbers came. It has a 100% failure rate. I know that sounds
very skeptical, but it does. It's the only enterprise I know, except maybe flying to the
moon without a spaceship that has a 100% failure rate, like everybody that's ever come up with it.
And in Sanhedrin 97, which is the Talmudic chapter, everybody should read Sanhedrin 97.
The rabbis are sitting around in the 4th, 5th century discussing why are all these prophecies
failing? Like, we thought it would be this. We thought it would be that. You know what they
decided? No more calculations. Not calculate. If you calculate, you're a wicked person.
Remember 1988? What was it? 88 reasons? 88 reasons. Yeah, and that was based on 1948.
This generation will not pass. Right. The fig trees, Israel, Hell, Lindsey, Lake, Great
Planet Earth. That's right. Well, we're way past that now. So, what do you do? Recalculate.
Yeah. And guess what? Yeah. It's going to fail. I'm not saying that something couldn't happen
cosmically. Well, Croson says we're going to do it to ourselves relatively quickly.
So, that'll be our apocalypse because of, you know, how he talks about climate change and so
forth. Anyway, I've talked enough. But that wasn't the case. No, I haven't. Old Testament
translated as eternal. How would people of the culture of second century? Oh, Olam, nothing.
Well, it could mean eternal. What do you think, Kip? Odd Olam to the age, to the world, into the
ages. It's a very indefinite reference. It does not have to do with the philosophical Greek concept
of eternity, which the Greeks didn't hold either. Because remember, Plato has the great year.
And even though the great year is like thousands and thousands of years, I forgot how long a great
year is. But do you remember offhand, it's like no, I don't. But if it's some of the procession
the equinoxes and then it would start again. So, like, it's sort of like the Buddhist Hindu view of
or even the cause, the cosmology view of the expanding universe. And then it begins to contract
again, and then expands again, and then contracts again. And you say, well, how many rides are we
on right now? You know, like how many times has the universe evolved, expanded, and then contracted
back to the big crunch and then went out again? Well, it could be infinite, I guess, because how
would you know? But yeah, Olam, Adolam, basically to the age. There's no end of the world really
talked about in the Hebrew Bible. You know how people talk about the New Heavens and New Earth?
Isaiah 65 and 6. Read it. It's not a transcendent other world. People are having kids,
sex in the kingdom, guys. That's not what Jesus said. They're marrying and giving him marriage. And
it says that there will not be an old man who doesn't fulfill his days. So, everybody gets to live to
a hundred. That's not, so I'm trying to think, I'm not sure there is a transcendent eternal
world in the Hebrew Bible. No, I don't think so. Maybe Daniel 12, the righteous will shine like
the stars in the firmament, but even then, you know, I'm not, that's ask for immortality. Yeah, so.
And that even, I mean, so, and yeah, I mean, that's very, that's already,
yeah, that's already a mid-second temple. Yeah, yeah, I think about, and, you know, even
the Yahweh, Yahweh, or Jehovah, the one who is and was and is to come, or, or ahia, I share ahia,
it's also would be better translated as continual or something like that. Like it, we have from
Exodus three. Yeah, yeah, just, I will be what I'm becoming what I'm becoming or something.
See, I always understood that as an expression of presence.
But isn't it also like it, I think it's in the imperfect. So it's like I,
yes, I will unfold as I will unfold or something like that. Yeah, but it's, I think it's, it's a,
it is an expression of like, it's something that's about to happen. But the point that
is being made there, and I always read Exodus three through Exodus six, where you've got both.
Yahweh, Yahweh sets a very certain emphasis on everything that he is just about to do.
So it's, you know, it's, it's anticipation. This is going to happen now.
Right. Right. It's happening, but it's, you know, yeah, right. So I was like, yeah. So I mean,
when I teach that, it's, it's always, no, we're not talking about some eternity or something.
No, it doesn't have, it's not some, some grand metaphysical expression of, of existence. I'm
like, it has. And you have to really watch the, I've got to go in just a second because I'm having
dinner at my daughter's house. But you, you, you have to really be careful with translations,
because I remember people will think of verses if they've grown up with the Bible, like,
I am the Lord and I inhabit eternity. That's a King James verse. I don't even know where it is,
but you can look it up. Well, that doesn't mean what people are taking it to mean.
Like there's this thing called eternity and I inhabit it. And it probably, I don't even remember
now, but I, I imagine it's just hot Olam or something like that. Probably. Yeah. Hey, hey,
before you go, James, we've got William Arons who wants to give you a shout out. I find that Dr.
Tabor's approaches, his approaches, his biblical studies with a real reverence, despite not having
traditional faith, people can always think and believe. Yeah. Yeah. So many people have asked
me what I believe. And in my classes, my students, every, well, Dr. Tabor, what do you believe?
And if they're Christian, I tell them, read Hugh Schoenfield, those incredible Christians.
This is Schoenfield is how he said his name, just because it's a nice little primer on Second
Temple Judaism and the messianic movements that arose. Because I don't want to talk to people
till they kind of come up to some of the knowledge of the text of the period and so forth. You know,
you know, there's a, people want to just ask you like, well, do you think Jesus is the Christ?
Is he the Son of God? Did he, you know, it's like, yes, no answer. And you could do that,
but I want people to learn, you know, do you think he's the Son of God? And of course, I'm going to
be a smart ass and go, well, what do you mean by Son of God? What do you mean by Christ? So finally,
I wrote a blog post on James Tabor.com. You can go read it. Anybody that wants to,
it's called Dr. Tabor. What do you believe? Question mark. And I finally answered that question.
And you'll be surprised. Of course, as you know, what I'm going to say is I'll plug it in the chat
too. I'm going to look that up. Dr. Tabor, what do you believe? And it's sort of like, go learn what
this means. I will definitely plug that here. And yeah, I got to go right now, because I've got to,
I agreed to pick up some food for a little gathering we're having. But thanks for having me.
March. March. March. March 5th, noon. Take the mark course and we'll spend two hours with you
talking about all your questions. So sorry, I cut you off, kid. Were you going to say something?
No, I was going to say, I was going to hope that he could answer that one before we go, because I
can't.
Where were you once on the public data, the powers of prayer, a non-direct,
redating book of watchers? Oh, boy. I was just looking at book of the watchers the other day.
But I certainly think it's in the air. I mean, from the Persian period on, we know that.
And so many of them reflect that. But one of the problems is to define apocalypses, as you know.
And you've had Collins on trying to do that. And he does a good job of that. Sort of written the
book on that, really. He wrote the book on it. Yeah. I do like an older work by H. H. Rowley.
Oh, yeah. Great. And it's called the relevance of apocalyptic. And I would highly recommend it. It's
still in print. And that was, he wrote that in the 1940s, before the war. Before the, yeah.
Wow. So anyway, I recommend it. For anyone that's seen a Dead Sea Scroll.
Yeah. That's right. Okay, you guys, take care. James, have a good one. I'm sharing this in the chat
and tell Lori I said, hey, and I look forward to seeing you sometime later this year, my friend.
Good to see you guys. James, good dude. Really good guy. Really appreciate him.
Kip, you're here, man. The gods have rejected you. Yes. The gods have rejected you, man.
Is this better? Are we doing wide? You like wide? I like wide, but you do whatever you need to do,
man. Okay. Well, I don't want. What does the audience want? Let's see.
Or do they care? Here, type one, if you want us like we are, type two, if you want us up close
and personal. So one, like this. Yep. Two, like this. We give them the option. No, this is not
helpful people. You guys are, you guys are not. There we go. Oh, come on. Come on. I need to see
an overwhelming number show up. One is like this. Two is like this. I see it. I'm still seeing,
I'm still seeing a very healthy mix. Let's just leave it like this. Okay, fine. Yeah, we'll go
close and I'll just check my camera. Yeah. You know, you got, if you ask people like that,
you know they're going to make it into something funny. I got a lot of, there's lots of ones.
There's like a whole bunch of ones in the row. So one, one was this way. Now I don't remember
what it was now. I think this was one. Everybody remind me when I made up the number system.
You remind me. Oh yeah. Yeah. Okay, people really don't care. I'm just throwing numbers out there.
They really don't when they just start shitting on your chat. You know, they don't care.
Right. And if you watch the chat closely enough, you will notice that
people aren't really paying any attention at all to what you're saying. They're just,
they're just hanging out. Sometimes, sometimes that's how it is. There's a spot in this interview
that I do want to play and this is relevant to your work, Dr. Kip. And I hope people subscribe to
you too. I put that in the chat earlier. Either way, one or two isn't going to matter while we're
sharing the screen for a moment. But me and Dr. Heizer, we go through, I start describing,
he talks about three different cataclysmic parts. I'm not going to go through the whole thing.
I edited this in later. Thanks to my friend, Stephen Nelson. Goodness, he's super like,
he is all over the Greek. And he helped me actually in all of these slides that you ever see,
if you ever see a slide look this good, just know I'm not that organized. I am not this neat.
But Stephen Nelson is. I'm not going to say one day I won't be, but I just am not. So
you'll notice here, just to give people a tease, what gets brought up here is a very important
passage. And what Dr. Heizer says, I think is extremely important for Christians to pay attention
to, at least the ones that aren't, you know, the inherent infallible, you know what I mean, like
fundamental. Well, they should pay attention to. Oh, everybody should. Everybody should. Everybody
put those earmuffs, not earmuffs, headphones on, make sure you can hear us. All right,
I'm going to play this. And then, Kip, I want you to pause and feel free to comment. I'm not going
to unless I really think I need to, but I really want to give you a chance to talk.
I'm going to, I'm going to turn my camera on and I'm still listening, but I think I might have to
let the dogs out. So did you want to do that for a second? Or can you hear it? I can hear it. Okay,
okay. Our Bible, you know, because God confuses their languages and we get a whole list of the
nations in Genesis 10. Genesis 10 is the precursor to Genesis 11. It explains how we got all those
nations in the table of nations in Genesis 10. So we know what, we know what he's talking about.
Here he's talking about the Bible. Okay. When the most high gave to the nations, their inheritance,
when he divided mankind and fixed the boards of the people, he fixed those boards according to
the number of the sons of God. Well, see, other translations will have according to the number
of the sons of Israel, the people of Israel, which again, I can sit here and wax eloquent. I mean,
I published a journal article on this that if you're having trouble sleeping, you know, you can
find it online and, you know, read it and go to sleep pretty early. You know, it's just one of those
things. I can, I can play textual critic here all day long. That's actually why the Dead Sea Scrolls
are correct. The Dead Sea Scrolls say sons of God. Right. And if you have a study Bible,
you will have a footnote here and it'll tell you that. Can I ask you a question on this
particular subject? Because this is important. I'm popping up something for you guys to check out
because this is super important in light of this. All right. So my question is, and you've written
extensively in textual critical problems in Deuteronomy 32, 8 and 32, 43, which are a microcosm
of the issue of the Masoretic text priority, if you will, empty priority, the notion of the presumed
sanctity of the Masoretic text in the Bible, you seem to favor the consensus of most textual critics
that these verses are corrupt in the Masoretic text favoring readings from the Dead Sea Scrolls,
which you just got done saying, which is part of my question, but it gets into something. If you
don't mind me finishing, this would be great. Greek Septuagint as being closer to the original form
of the text. And obviously, these more original readings contain explicit divine counsel language,
which may have been intentionally removed. Modern English translations appear to be divided on how
they handle this issue like these out of the 20 popular English Bibles, only seven of them
go against the Masoretic text and Deuteronomy 32, 8. However, the vast majority of these Bibles,
17 out of 20, favor the Masoretic text and Deuteronomy 32, 43, sorry, 43. In fact, the new
NET Bible footnotes addition doesn't even provide a footnote mentioning the existence
of a significant textual variant in 32, 43, which is why so many of these Bibles go against
the Masoretic text in verse 8, while clinging to the priority of the Masoretic text in verse 43.
If scholars are correct, and this is summing it up, that the Masoretic text of verse 43 is
demonstrably incomplete, missing two whole lines, shouldn't the Bible editor be inclined,
go with the scholarship on this, and at least inform the readers of this issue?
Well, if you're asking me, and you are asking me,
I should say yes. In a passage that is this transparently
inadequate in the Masoretic text, the answer is yes. Now, in the real world of Bible translation,
all of these things are committee decisions. And so you might have a translator, and depending
on that person's stature, within the group of people working on the translation, they may win
the argument, or they may not. I think a lot of people, how can I say this? Because I don't want
to undermine confidence in English translations, because they all do pretty well. I mean, I have
preferences for different translation philosophies, but it would be unusual for one to just like,
for me to look at it and say, please avoid that. I mean, I can count those on one hand, all right?
Right. So what you more or less have is you have publishers that say things like,
and I worked for one. So I know, I lost this conversation, internally at Lagos at Faithlife.
People are just used to reading it a verse a certain way. So we're going to leave it that way,
and we'll put what's probably better in a footnote. That's what they're going to do.
And how many Christians aren't reading those footnotes? How many aren't seeing that there's
more weight in the footnote of this than there is in the value of the scripture they're reading?
I just wanted to pause and bring it up, because I know that what was just said was a mouthful.
It was a lot, yeah. And I mean, he's absolutely right about Bible translations.
I share his convictions with regards to
the frustration with a lot of modern translation and their methods.
I have a friend who did his doctoral work. This was in Norway while I was there. He was working on it
specifically on the Norwegian Bible Society and their handling of a handful of passages.
As part of his project was provided permission to go and actually
look through all the notes and all the records and everything that they had from all of their
meetings on how to approach these decisions with regards to text choices. And it's an amazing process
of, I mean, how do I put this? Things that we think shouldn't matter, always matter
in these situations. They're concerned about hurting people's feet. I was just talking about
this today. Earlier this morning, Isaiah chapter six verse one, if the reading in Isaiah chapter
six verse one is as a handful of scholars think it should be, then why on earth is it that virtually
every single English translation translates it differently? And the reason for that is because
the publishers of these translations are terrified at what their audiences, the people who are buying
their books, buying Bibles, how are they going to react when they see something that is
radically different? Bringing up Francesca, right? So I love her work and what she does.
If we could get her to run through the biblical text and place in there English translation,
what is actually being meant? I think that would sell as a heck of a secular book, right?
Probably. In the stream I did earlier today, I cited my own translation of four passages
in which I said vagina a whole bunch, which is a word you'll not find in your English Bibles
anywhere, right? But I mean, this is illustrative of the problem. There is a modern sensibility
about language that is completely, what's the word I'm looking for? So our modern sensibilities
about language and the way in which we're still, as an English speaking word, still trying
to sanitize the text is creating a massive disservice to what's actually going on in the text
in all sorts of places. After I had learned Hebrew well enough that I started working through
some of these texts on my own and I had actually started working on, I was asked by
Logos Bible Software actually a few years ago to do the lexim commentary on the book of Jeremiah.
I didn't get very far and yeah, so that's a whole other story. But as I started reading through
the book of Jeremiah in earnest, in the Hebrew, it was jarring. It's jarring how disgusting,
how utterly pornographic, so much of the prophetic language is.
I mean, Heiser clearly recognized that too. I don't think he would probably not go as far
of course, as myself or somebody like Professor Stafford Kapolu in terms of
how we should be translating a lot of these English texts. But yeah, I mean, he was aware of it.
And I was going to say, I think he probably had by far the most carefully creative way
of resolving many of these issues, right? Because I think that's the thing that is,
if Michael Heiser, well, I mean, he's left the legacy and I think this is what it is.
I think the legacy should be just the way in which he had managed to, I would say,
harmonize all of these really strange archaic, ancient Near Eastern ideas and worldviews
into something that represented his modern evangelicalism. And did so in many respects
where you could barely see the seams. That's hard to do. And I sure as hell couldn't do it.
So, I mean, I'll say that I'm still, I am still kind of in awe at how many of the dots
he worked at connecting. I don't agree with the way that he connected them, but man,
what an effort, like, and one that I think, well, obviously, it was very, you know,
an effort that was very, very convincing to a lot of people.
Wow. Thank you for that. Yeah, I think he said he sided with the Septuagint over the Masoretic
and then was also implying the Dead Sea Scrolls was correct before they took out those verses.
I don't know a single Christian that I've ever bumped into. I mean, maybe except for, like,
a higher critical scholar or something that might agree who's Christian, like,
if Delcey Allison Jr. or someone like that came across it, they probably go, oh, I'll go with that
because they don't have an inerrancy model or even like a highly overly inspirational model
for scripture. They recognize contradictions. They even say there's legends the whole night.
Heiser seemed to be more evangelical than them, but he's like, yeah, I think they're missing.
And because those those verses actually fit his interpretation, of course, more, meaning I know
you disagree with him on the Deuteronomy Council understanding ultimately and that Yahweh was
actually a subordinate deity to El Yan. But, you know, it is interesting to see how it still worked
for his personal, like, hey, give us the gods. You know what I mean? Like, we need the gods. The
gods are part of the crew. And the Masoretics trying to like, let's get that out of here,
man. We can't have that. Didn't the Septuagint do it before the Masoretic, though?
Yeah, totally. Yeah. Well, so I mean, I think what's happening, what I would say what Heiser was doing
was in a lot of in a lot of his exegesis and reconstruction, he was taking, so he was he
was following a model that was already mapped out for him by Second Temple Jews. Much of much of
Heiser's reconstruction of the biblical text is dependent on the way in which Second Temple Jews
were reading the text. And I mean, basically, so what they were doing was working towards these
models, which attempted to resolve stuff going on in the older texts, right? So, like, I, you know,
for example, the reason why the text reads as it does, first in the Septuagint, which is the
translation of the original, but then, you know, already subordinating the pantheon to the status
of angels, right? Right. But what's happening there, and I would say what's happening in already in the
Book of Deuteronomy as a whole, like, because let's not forget, the text itself, the Deuteronomy 32,
is an independent composition, right, distinct from the Book of Deuteronomy, right? So what happens
when you plug the so-called Song of Moses into the Book of Deuteronomy, and then ultimately into
the Torah, is now you have to, now you have to connect some of these dots that are not as easy
to connect. Right. So that's where, you know, the event that's being described in Deuteronomy 32 is,
you know, equated by Heiser with the event of the Tower of Babel. That's why at a later stage,
you can't have the, you can't have the Sons of God anymore at all in the text. You have to
change this to the Sons of Israel, because this now has to align with passages in Genesis about
the divisions of the nation. So it's, yeah, it's a complicated mess that Second Temple Jews are
already trying to resolve, and that's where a lot of Heiser's insight came from.
He, I'm telling you, he was slick. That was a, he's smart, man. Of course he has a different
interpretation, but that was a really, that was something that blew my mind. There's a
Divine Council. I thought there was no gods, but one God. And of course, you know, you come from more
of a, I'll call it a hypermonotheistic worldview that isn't recognized in that. Let's get through
these super chats, because I didn't want to take you too long. I know you were on a long stream
earlier today, or at least somewhat long. It wasn't that long, but yeah, it's, but it has been a long
time. Yeah. Constellation Pegasus, thank you for your support. Jews can't agree on
what the Shadim is. I can't understand that. It makes no sense on such a basic thing in the Tanakh
or Bible. The Bible. Yeah. And I, yeah, I don't know. I'm afraid I, I can't help you resolve this.
In the, in the moment. So the Shadim are, are generally they're like, they're, they're like
an unclean or an evil spirit or demon, or I don't even like the term demon
spotted throughout the Hebrew Bible. And yeah, there is some inconsistency. I mean, part of the
problem here has to do with, with the way the text developed, and then with the, the ways in
which I guess later interpreters then would go about handling these bits of literature too, right?
So it's oftentimes difficult to, to, to come to a consensus on these things.
Thank you, Constellation. Again, what does the Dead Sea Scrolls have to say about the Shadim?
Some rabbis say they were a non-direct creation. They seem to be needed.
Well, I, I haven't, I honestly haven't looked it up. I can even just do a, do a quick look now
to see if the word occurs offhand. I'm not even sure.
Hit that like button everybody.
Yeah, I don't even, I don't even know if I can look into this a little bit more later, but I don't
even know if it occurs in, in the sectarian text. So possibly, and they're like, the, the scrolls
community is already using, using different terminology to describe basically, you know,
the forces of darkness, the sons of darkness, the, the, what is the, the one that they really like
is the, which is the, the angels of the or the angels of the, they've got different ways of,
of, of describing these things, but I'm going to go back. If I have some time, I can, I can take
a look and see if there's something more directly that the text say about this.
Okay. Constantly, you want to, you want to just come back another day and address that or something?
Yeah, maybe.
Okay. Scott Milligan says, do you think Matthew 2819 is a later interpolation? It seems odd to
me and evidently apocalyptic sect would have worldwide discipleship theology.
I don't know what that is. What is Matthew 2819?
Pulling it up now. Let's see. Oh, look, I'm actually, I'm, no, my, my text is on Matthew 2814.
Just as I opened it up. Oh, oh, this is the, this is the great commission. Go there for
and make disciples of all nations teaching them. I don't remember that. I mean, I don't say I have
no idea. I've never, this is not something as that I'm familiar with as I'm the wrong,
I'm totally the wrong guy to ask this. I'm sorry. But, and this is, this is something that James
Tabor is probably a question that was meant for him. Yeah, I'm looking at here. I've got some
commentaries. Delcey Allison, Jr. Worldwide discipleship theology. Yeah. I have no idea.
And I, I've never heard, like, it's not, I'm not the right guy. But as far as I know, it's not,
it's not commonly discussed as an interpolation. And I suspect there's, there's excellent reasons
why scholars would, would maintain that it is not so.
Yeah. So that's verse 19. The prophecy that in Abraham, all the families of the earth will be
blessed comes to fulfillment in the mission of the church, compare the similar constructions.
And then he gives a lot of other verses, the transit of use and the Testament makes disciples,
this usage is peculiar to the Testament behind it may stand the insight that one can become a
disciple of Jesus. This also stands. So I don't, I'd have to really dig. There's a lot here that
he's written. But, um, yeah, I don't know whether or not this is interpolated. I don't know if this
is originally there. Because even he has mentioned when we had conversations about Matthew chapter
10, you will not have gone through all the cities in Jerusalem or in Israel before the Son of man
comes. Um, like that would mean Jesus, it seems to be implying maybe Jesus thought the Son of Man
was the Danielic figure, don't know, or at least some other figure than himself. But it's hard to
know if that's a fossil, as he says. And so does EP Sanders, uh, Switzer, Switzer thought, you know,
this seems to be not incongruity to the rest of the text because he's thinking they will not have
gone through just Israel and the Son of Man is going to come, let alone the whole, all the nations
of the earth, right? So that's more of an expanded, the, the Matthew 10 is a not so great commission.
And the Matthew 28 is the great commission because it's going all much bigger. I don't know,
something worth chewing on. Scott, thank you for that super chat. I don't know the answer to that
question. Sentinel apologetics in the house. Uh, Rob, thank you for that super chat.
Kip, it's not just translator bias. Why doesn't a lot agree with your earlier explanation of,
is this train or is this? No, it's, uh, well, yeah. So it's, it's that same translated as ham,
most commonly in it, in like places like Exodus where it's obviously a ham.
Do dictionaries need upgrading? So, uh, yeah, probably.
And, and this happens all the time and, and it'll, it'll continue to happen as, as the language
develops. I mean, we're, we, uh, you know, we, we, uh, we use the tools. We're not rigidly committed
uh, to the tools until, you know, at the point where they, they, they start to break down.
But this is like, this is one of those things, uh, Rob, where you, you work through and you let
scholarship do the work. The wrong thing to do is just to try and shut it down at the outset,
especially when you don't understand it, right? I mean, I think the, the, the problem here, uh,
starts from the, the original, just, just, just the, the impression
provided by, um, the translation, the suggested translation of the text from
uh, Stavra Kupulu, that, uh, this is, this is with reference to, to Yalvis Genitals.
You know, instead of just reacting and saying, that's ridiculous and, oh yeah, it doesn't work
according to the dictionary and, oh yeah, I can't find a lot of secondary literature which,
which discusses this. The proper thing to do is go, wonder why she's reading it this way and
could there be something to this? And I'll, I'll tell you, um, I mean, I didn't, I, as I, as I sat
down and looked more closely at what's going on in Isaiah chapter six over the course of the last
several days, I didn't just do this alone. I consulted with, with a handful of other, you know,
hebraists, uh, and, and worked through the text and, and all of us were going, yeah, I mean,
there's obviously something here. So whether the dictionaries need updating or not,
that will remain to be seen, but it's certainly part of the conversation.
And, uh, Rob says, and I can't read Hebrew.
Okay. That's Lishadine.
Occurs in 4Q211. I can look at that. That sounds like, uh,
um, I was going to say pseudo Daniel, but I think not.
Might be Aramaic too.
I'll get to the next one after you address this one.
Oops. Oh, no, it's Jubilees, of course. That would be why. Ah, yeah. Okay. That's right.
Yeah. Okay. And yeah, in, uh, in Jubilees.
So this is, this is the beginning of, uh, of Jubilees, uh, right. Yeah. These are the, okay.
Um, I think that's why I couldn't find it at first because I had my brackets turned off.
So it's, it's not actually, so the, the word doesn't actually appear. It's important to point
out the word doesn't actually appear in the text. It's being reconstructed, uh, into the text, um,
on the basis of the, of the translations, but it's probably a, a good bet, uh, that,
that Shadeem is there. It takes place in what's called the Lakune, where, where there's, there's
fragments, um, but, uh, where the editor has, has had to, uh, has had to reconstruct the text.
So, uh, let me just double check here.
So, yeah.
Yeah. It comes up in a lot of the reconstructions.
But also, yeah. So anyways, uh, thanks for that. Yeah. It's, um,
it's with reference, it's with reference to demons, but I suspect in some of these instances,
it's being retroverted from the Greek.
Constellation Pegasus says, Hey Derek, do you have a Greenstone edition to knock of the 24 books?
The commentary of Isaiah 45, one through seven is so over the top, I can't believe it was written.
Evidently Cyrus was responsible for the temple destruction and exile.
What?
I thought he was the one who like, he, he sends, sends them to go rebuild it.
Hmm.
I do not have that, by the way. Uh, I definitely don't have the commentary. I, that's very interesting
though. That's the case. Be like, what? That seems kind of odd that that would be there.
Thank you. Constellation really appreciate the support. Set no apologetics again. Rob says,
I don't understand it. Uh, Hugh GM Williamson, OBE F, FBA in his 2018 ICC commentary on Isaiah
six laughs at S lingers proposal and it's only there. Okay. So what? I mean, I've given what
I've seen of Rob's reading ability. I'm skeptical that, that he's, he's reading Williamson correctly.
I'd have to actually go and look. Um, but I don't know. I, I mean, what do you want me to do, Rob?
Yeah, it's, it's a minority reading.
Then he says, yes, it's possible due to four Q jube with four Q to 16.
Just, just keep the conversation going. Doc, Pluroma, not thoughts on what?
No, Hassan Gabriel. Yeah, Hassan Gabriel Stili. And as the first posteriori evidence of the
Ten Commandments, Kumeron copying practices in stone seem to be drawn from Deuteronomy 27,
two to three, or even Joshua 832. So, um, I'm of the opinion that the Hassan Gabriel Stili is a,
is a modern forgery. And if, if for, for those who don't know, it, it belongs to a private
collector and by the name of, um, oh, what's his first name? His last name is Yesselson.
And it's a, if I remember correctly, I think it's about three feet tall. It's a stone.
And it has, I'm pretty sure it's, yeah, I'm pretty sure it's Hebrew writing on it.
But it's been, it's been like, like painted on with like, with, with like a small brush.
I, I think it's, it's, there have been, there was actually, there was, there was a book of,
of collected essays published by Erdmann's, all about the Hassan Gabriel Stili.
My boss in Norway, Tour Leif Elgin, did quite a bit of work on the Hassan Gabriel Stili. And I
think he might actually have been the last scholar to, to publish an article on it,
in which he attempts, he's suggested actually that the nature of the text, the, because one of the,
one of the things, one of the problems with the Hassan Gabriel Stili is that it,
it, it contains a handful of identifiable words and then lots that you can't read,
and then another handful of identifiable words and lots you can't read. And the,
it's been incredibly troublesome for any scholar to piece together even what's going on in there,
because so much, it's hard to even reconstruct any kind of flow, not a narrative flow, or even
any kind of poetic flow through, through this, this thing, which is quite large, I believe it's
over 70 lines of text. Wow. Yeah, it's huge. So, Tour Leif's solution to this was actually to suggest
that this was the result of an ecstatic prophetic ignorance. This is a guy basically just kind of
coming out of his, his vision trance and just needs to get this stuff down, right, which is why he
says it's, it's super chaotic. I prefer to think that the reason it doesn't make any sense is because
whoever forged it, I think it's a modern forgery, was just throwing out because it's, it is a
collection of like, Christiany buzzwords. It's like you've got a bunch of stuff he can't read,
and then all of a sudden, Son of God, and then a bunch of stuff he can't read, and then all of a
sudden, you know, angels, and then a bunch of stuff he can't read, and all of a sudden, it's like
12 loaves, and like, it's, it's, it's a collection of these, of these, these key words, basically,
or key phrases that you can't make heads or tails out of. So, and it's hard to answer this question
because I think it's a modern forgery. No, I don't think it's a evidence of the Ten Commandments,
and I don't, I don't think it has any, any real historical merit. And as is the case with so many
of these things, and I, I got, I have to start doing this more and more. My, my, my paparology,
and my archaeology friends keep telling me that really we've got, we've got to, to set our focus
on the question of provenance with, with artifacts before we even touch them or, or, or start to think
or, or discuss them critically. And as with so many of these, these artifacts and private
collections, the, the story of the discovery of the, the house on Gabriel's stele is super sketchy.
So, yeah, but it's kind of a, it's kind of a fun object.
Yeah, it sounds like, especially when you get keyword, this keyword that it's like,
oh yeah, it's wild. Seiso says, how Jews made up a, made up story in adding stuff in Old Testament,
which part is forgery, how severe is the corruption, how fluid is the text, and what is a lying pin
of the scribes? Oh my goodness. So much there. So I know, I've seen, this looks like a different name,
but I think it's the same guy. I've seen him asking tons of questions lately, all in this vein. So,
made up story, adding stuff to the Old Testament. I mean, that's super complicated.
And there's a variety of opinions as to what's, what's quote unquote made up on what's,
you know, based in, in history. Oh, I can't see the question anymore. Sorry. No. Which parts
are forgery? I don't particularly like that word, especially when it, it comes to
the Hebrew Bible, because the, the, the practice of, I guess, pseudepigraphy, which we see in the
book of Daniel, and possibly in Deuteronomy, although Deuteronomy itself doesn't claim to be a
direct writing of Moses, it's claims to be, you know, a collection of what he said, basically.
So, I mean, those, those are really the only places, I would say, within the, within the
Hebrew Bible that you could directly suggest are pseudepigraphy, almost the entire rest of the
text is, is anonymous. And, yeah, it's how severe is the corruption? Again, another question that
we don't really have near, we don't have nearly enough information about to know. We can see from
what's extant in the Second Temple period, in particular in the Dead Sea Scrolls, and then,
you know, the Greek translation and the Septigent, some of the other texts, we can see that, that,
or we have good reason to believe that textual corruption is something that happened with some
regularity. And, yeah, I've, you know, I've, I've, I've proposed that the text is quite fluid in
this period. And by that, I mean that there was a lot of toleration for, for variation and for
alteration and change within the text. And what is the line pen of scribes? It's a really pithy
statement forwarded by Jeremiah in chapter eight. I'm going to get the verse wrong. And I, I think
it's, it's actually an invective by Jeremiah against this idea of, of writing things down. So
thank you so say so. And then sentinels back again, Rob in the house, Williamson, thank you for the
support, Rob. Williamson, were God's penis in view? I always love just saying God.
We should have expected God as a new gerritic, Isaiah 47, too. M.T. Chavol appears as a shulecha
in one cue Isaiah a, suggesting that the reader understood the latter to be reviewed, to be viewed
as clothing. I'd have to look that up myself. I haven't, but I will, I will certainly take a look
and see. And that's, that's a potential solution. So, okay, I still don't think this does anything to
diminish the, the validity of, of an alternative reading. So it's, these are options, Rob. This
isn't settled. It's, I mean, it's a, it's an ancient text, but we're learning more about it all the
time. So let me ask this question since God's penis is on the scene and, and I always, I always enjoy
this conversation. It's interesting to even think of God having an actual body. And I don't mean it
in the sense that people believe Jesus is God and he was a man and all that. I'm talking about God
actually having a body. Are there any places and maybe, maybe the right person to ask would be
Francesca on this, but like, are there any pretty more explicit places? Huh? Or Dan, or Dan. Yeah.
And I do plan on interviewing Dan here soon. I hope to cover this topic actually. We did talk in
private. I'm just curious to know if you and Rob got another super chat here. We'll read it in just
a second, but it's like, are there any clearer places other than Isaiah six, you think, that
explicitly talk about God having an actual body that like, there'd be no reason to doubt or maybe
even God's penis? I mean, I, you know, it's, it's God walks in the garden of Eden. He builds,
he builds Adam like a potter. There's one of the, one of the texts I like for this is looking at
the two stories of, of Hagar's
banishment in Genesis, to Genesis 15 and Genesis 22. No, not 22. It's Genesis 15 and
something else, which I think are, are basically retellings of, of the same story.
And the differences between them are quite interesting. In the earlier one, it actually says
that she, you know, she met Yahweh at the well as if, you know, you would just encounter somebody
who was standing there and they have a conversation, but then in the later text,
you know, God speaks to her as a voice out of the heavens. There's, there's a text in,
is it Exodus or Numbers or it literally says Yahweh standing on a rock, you know, and when, I think
when, when Moses, I mean, there's, there's, there's bits and pieces of this scattered all the way
throughout the text where if we're reading it naturally, yeah, you're gonna, you're gonna read
it up. I mean, you know, Yahweh comes to see Abraham in chapter 18 and sits in his tent and eats a meal.
Right? There's lots of places where, you know, he is depicted as, as a physical being.
Rob, thank you again. I really appreciate the super chat. The whole subject has been thoughtfully
reviewed by L Popko. What has happened with Jerusalem in Jeremiah 1326,
RB 117, 2010, and he opts firmly for the traditional understanding of our verse.
That's fine. And I don't know, again, I don't know what you want from me. Yes.
The point here is not to say that the traditional reading is all wrong. The point here is to say
that there's a validity to challenging it. And I don't know what the problem with that is.
I think I gotta, I gotta hit up Francesca to do another deep dive. They're always fun. And she's,
she's, she's awesome. I think I'll do some deeper reading, not just from God on anatomy,
but maybe she's written somewhere more extensively. And I would be happy to dive deeper into that and
then be able to have a deeper conversation where she can get into why she takes the kind of interpretation
she does on many of these passages. I love the whole thing, you know what I mean?
Yeah. Yeah, totally. Rob's back again. I searched it myself and one Q Isaiah A has,
I cannot read Hebrew, while one Q Isaiah B and four Q Isaiah D has, why is this the case?
Well, I mean, are we going to do this here? Really? I, I would prefer to have the time to go
back and, and, and actually look at this. Yeah, instead of negotiating this through super chats
on Derek's stream. Look, I'm okay with the super chats. Yeah, no, no, I am okay with the super
chats. I'm kidding. But I, you know, I, I just pulled it up on my screen to look at it.
And I'm not about to, I, again, I'm just, I'm not entirely sure what Rob wants me to say here,
besides the fact that there are all sorts of reasons why the text looks the way it does.
I have suggested that Francesca's proposal, Francesca Stavrakopoulou's proposal is a valid one
that we should consider. I'm happy to consider all of them. And I don't know why Rob is so
resistant to this one idea, even being on the table. So, yeah, I mean, it could be as simple as, as a,
as a textual era, but until I actually go and look into it, you know, I'm afraid I will not
forgive me for just not taking your word for it, Rob.
Someone just joined us. Oh, look, good evening, gentlemen. Good evening.
How's everybody doing? I'm doing good, man. How are you? Yeah, I'm doing all right. I'm,
I'm actually just sitting and waiting for my 10 year old to finish Girl Scouts. So,
I'm sitting in the dark out here in the truck, which is why I'm not on camera. But I, I saw
that you were on here. And I just wanted to say that while I, you know, obviously disagreed with a
lot of things that Dr. Heizer said, I thought he was a phenomenal scholar. He was very well trained.
And it's, I'm just, I'm very sad, honestly, that he passed. I know about a month ago and I saw his
post on Facebook. Yeah, so it's a very sad time. Yeah, so it's good, man.
I agree. I think he was a really, I don't know, he's a really, really gentle guy, you know, and
even when he taught, I could, I could listen to him no matter where I was, while I was a Christian,
while I wasn't a Christian, I didn't feel pressure or anything. He's just enjoyable to listen to and
learn from. I really appreciate you popping in here. Yeah, I wanted to say, Kip, I,
I'm about halfway through watching the video or the, the stream that you did today. And I just
wanted to say a phenomenal job. Thank you. Not everyone thinks so, Josh. Well, you know, that's,
that's okay. To be expected. To be expected, yes. I mean, I think it's incredibly difficult in these
circumstances, particularly when you have a reading that is not, it's not going to be easy to
incorporate into an English translation. But the reality is go read some Sumerian, right? Like,
go read some stuff about Enki. This idea that, you know, a penis is used in creation accounts or a
penis is used in mythological texts, attributed to deities, it's just not, it's not unique, right?
I mean, Enki digs his penis into the ground and ejaculates to create the Tigris and Euphrates
rivers. I mean, like, welcome, welcome to my hood, right? This is, and they say the next generation's
getting worse. What do you mean? We could go back. So I mean, like, I, you know, I haven't done,
I haven't done the work on the passage. So I think, sorry, Josh, I think,
I think this is the point that frustrates me so much is, I haven't done the work on the passage
either. But some, some people have been working on this and clearly provided a, what I think is a,
seems to me like it's a plausible reading that should have its day. Yeah, I mean, Ted Lewis
mentioned it. I don't understand this, this insistence on shutting it down.
And, and this is the thing, like, so Ted Lewis, I looked in his, on the origin and character of God
this afternoon when I got home. And, you know, he, he only gives a footnote to it in a,
seemed like a smaller section. But he references Mark Smith's book. And Mark Smith seemed a dead
dedicate substantially disagreed with the position. But in his 2000, 2001 publication on,
on God blanking on the title of the book anyway, you know, is sufficient enough to dedicate
time to it. And, you know, it's funny to me what it is that people will poo poo and what people
will grab hold of. Yeah. You know, like, I mean, I, you know, I love Rob, right. And,
you know, I've known him for a long time. We've had sort of ups and downs.
But, you know, Rob was one that came out really strong about the baculum, right? Zionis Evans
idea. And, you know, you know, when it's somebody that you're good with, or it's an idea that you
like, you know, you can take a minority position and roll with it. But, you know, it's easy to
dismiss something out of hand. And as you, and I'll shut up, but like, as you said in the stream,
like, like, do you know that this is the correct reading? No, right? But this is how scholarship
works. My dissertation, like, nobody should read my dissertation and read the section where I,
you know, tried to do something novel and say, oh, Josh, you know, says that here, these Sumerian
with the graphic text are meant for people to be able to read to themselves, these Sumerian
laments in a Cadian script. Like, that's what, that's, you know, that's what this is actually
doing. And to say either, well, nobody has grabbed hold of this and is running with it. So Josh is
an idiot, right? Nor should they say, oh, well, Josh said it. And he, you know, certainly did all
this research. So it must be right. Like, this is, this is how the field progresses. We come up with
ideas. We substantiate them, we put them out there. And, you know, we see, we see what happens with
it. So, um, yeah, this seems to me, I think Rob's on the wrong side of this. That's, that's what I'll
say. I think Rob's on the wrong side of this. And he needs to get on the right side and that right
side. And the right side is not, is not adopting Francesca Stavro Coppola's reading. That's right.
The right side is saying, yeah, there's, you know, is, is not continuing to insist that it's stupid.
Yeah. And I think that there's motivation behind this, right? Yeah. That's how it comes across.
Hopefully I'm wrong. Hopefully that's not the case, but it seems like he wants to agree with
somebody. And I just think that's a bad, he's on the wrong side of that, my opinion. Yeah.
Josh, you're awesome. No, I really appreciate you coming in here and you don't have to shut up.
You can keep talking. No, I was just going to say, I don't, I, I'll jump off, but I,
I just, I don't think it's a good idea. It sounds so weird to say. I don't think it's a
good idea to be on the side of misogyny and academia. That's just, you don't want to be on
that side. And for somebody that's going to come on and, and this was a point that I was talking
to Kim about earlier, you know, saying something wrong, saying something off, saying something
hurtful, you know, people make mistakes, right? There's no question about this. I always give
this example, but I used to always talk about how all my jokes were lame, right? I should not be
ostracized from the community for saying that. The reason that I shouldn't be is because when
someone said to me, Hey, Josh, that's, that's, that's hurtful to disabled people, right? You
shouldn't say that. I didn't say, how dare you be so sensitive. How I can say what I want, blah,
blah, blah, right? I said, Oh, I'm really sorry. And, and I stopped, right? Because the reason
that people get the reason that people suffer consequences in this community, in my experience
is not because they say something wrong. I'm going to make mistakes. You're going to,
right, right? We're all going to make mistakes. And that dude, yeah, I mean, I'm with you. There's
no other way to put it, Josh, than that. Yeah. Well, guys, thank you for letting me bust in here.
Thank you. No, I have to do with it. But thank you all very much. And, and again,
Kim, great job. I thought it was wonderful. And thank you guys for doing this stream for
Michael Eisner's memories. Good night. Thank you, Josh. All right, guys, take care. Okay, bro.
Yeah. Wow. Well, there we go. Well, that, that makes a lot of sense too. And I agree. I think we'll,
there's going to come a time when we, we say something or we're going to do something or
whatever. And I don't know. I do care about people, you know, and even people on the other
aisle. In fact, the very reason I'm doing this video is I sincerely appreciate the memory and
the influence that this man, Michael Eisner had as someone who's not part of my tribe, right? We
have such division. And I want, I purposely want people to start to communicate more, to have more
flexibility and, and, you know, break down that kind of animosity that goes on.
That's my goal. Anyway, there's my soapbox. It's just, I really agree with everything he just said
on that. And I think if people are telling you, they don't care what people think or feel,
or how they feel about what you say in terms of offending people or things like that. Yeah.
Honestly, I mean, I just don't have any room to sit here and cater to it. You know, that's just
not me anymore, man. I'm more like trying to find a world where we can all show respect to each other
and not purposely try to offend or hurt people as much as we can. You know, there's sometimes you're
going to be critical of something. You want to be critical. You can be critical. In fact,
you think something isn't true, fine, whatever, but I'm with you. I think that most people feel
that way. You know, at least I would think most people do. Yeah. Yeah. I was just looking here
in the, do you have more super chats or? No, I didn't have any. Did you have something you were
going to say? No, I was just, I was just glancing at the chat here and don't be cringe wonders. Who
is going to be, I guess, hyzer 2.0 to keep the Divine Council scholarship going? And I think
that's actually a pretty interesting question. It will be interesting to see what happens
within evangelical scholarship and within evangelical teaching.
What happens in hyzer's absence? Yeah. I'll be curious to see. Yeah. And hopefully it's
someone who has the same patience and demeanor. And I still, to this day, I can go watch a hyzer
video and just really eat it up and enjoy it. Sometimes at night, I'll come across it and
watch a video. He has some insights. You'll notice stuff. He'll be like, oh, Paul did mention that
here in Romans 9 through 11 or whatever. And it was like, he has interesting things he catches that
when my first time reading through stuff or second time or third time or fourth time,
you'll notice, oh, he caught that. That's interesting. Now, I don't know if he himself
found those or if he was studying and found them from other scholarship, but just interesting stuff.
You can always learn and keep building on that. Yeah. Hey, did you notice this? I think it was
maybe three or four, maybe not even that long ago. It was very recent. Logos Bible Software released
like three one hour films on YouTube, Unseen Realm, Angels and Demons. Hold on. On YouTube?
Yeah. Is this on his channel or what does it know? It was Logos Bible Software that did this.
So I think they have a channel. Let me see if I can find it. I watched starring Corbin Burnson.
You probably don't know who that is. Is that a live? He's like a B plus A minus actor.
Let me see if I can find it. I'm on Logos Bible Software. They got 105,000 subscribers.
Yeah. Pulling it up now.
Use the mobile. Lots of instructional stuff. Yeah. So let me just see if I can
find. Oh, shoot. Come on. Interesting. When I looked at it, like when I saw it,
there it is. Yeah. So yeah, it is on Logos Bible Software. Let me...
How long ago? It's just two. It's four months ago now and they both have already had over a million
views. There's one called the Unseen Realm. Oh, I see. I see it. Do you see it now? Documentary
film with Michael Osheiser and then Angels and... Oh, that's Aliens and Demons. I was pretty sure
there was another one on Angels and Demons. Hold on. This has a million... Hold on. Which one?
I see the Unseen Realm. Sorry. Where's this? Oh, Angels. See it. Okay. There's another one called
Aliens and Demons. Evidence of an Unseen Realm documentary film featuring Michael Osheiser.
Interesting. Also, it's had a million views. And starring Corbyn Bernson.
Wow. Yeah. They really went all out. Yeah, they did. So my guess is they were anxious to get
those out before he... Well, that's good. Before he passed on. But I did... I watched the Unseen
Realm one and it was very... It was really good. It was quite interesting. It's kind of funny. Dr.
Tabor was mentioning Mount Hermon and we were right there. We ate the border of Syria. We could
literally see where the battles took place. The Six-Day War, I think it was. I can't remember
exactly. It was really rough. They went on to the history. But we ate this amazing restaurant.
Right before we went to that restaurant, we were down there where the Temple of Pan and the
portal into the underworld, into Hades was. And there was a temple built by Herod the Great for
Caesar Augustus. And there were temples, multiple temples of different gods. And then that was like
right here carved into the side of the mountain practically. But above is the higher mountain.
And I think Hermon is that one or one of them near there. The point is, is like,
there was so much rich stuff going on in this Mediterranean world with different gods. And
this is right near the area where the Gospel has Jesus saying like, who do men say that I am?
And I always think that this is a clever part of the author. Are they aware of this region?
They visited or it has some type of, it has some type of height, I would imagine.
There's cultural memories attached to this place. Right. In some way, there's something there. But
Jesus is competing in a way. I feel the fact that he is saying in this area, who do men say that I
am? Like he's pretty much saying, you see all these sons of gods? You see all these various deities
and such. See, they're not the one on the one, or at least it's implied. He doesn't want to say,
but you know, in Mark. But yeah, yeah, yeah. So it's really interesting when you're there on the
ground going, holy smokes, there is a son of God competition going on right here. And Jesus is
one of them. Yeah. Yeah, no, it's it's a neat. It's a neat image that Tavor draws from that.
Yeah. Spartans, how does it feel to know you guys will spend eternity there?
I don't know. Derek, you ate at the restaurant, right? I'm going to tell you that food was phenomenal.
So I'm okay then. You're good. You're going to be there. They take good care of you there. Okay.
Great hotels. We can go right there on. It's close to the Sea of Galilee or the Lake of Galilee.
So yeah, we'll be all right. It's not too far. Thank you for your thank you for your concern,
Spartan. You should come join us. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I think he might actually he might actually be
there just depends on which if I call the right evangelical, like, hey, is this Spartan
Universalist guy going to heaven or hell? That'd be like definitely hell. Yes. Yeah. So anyway,
I really appreciate it. Kip, any final words from you? I'm going to put your YouTube here
for a second. What do you have coming up? The least I could do is ask you that.
One of these days, I'll get a new installment of the Dead Sea Scroll series out. It's slow coming.
I had I had kind of a couple of unexpected interruptions there. So I am like two or three
weeks behind. So that's coming. I do need to say, though, that on Thursday, I will be joining
Pat Lohinger of the aptly named Pat Lohinger, doing ancient, is it discovering ancient history
with Pat Lohinger? He and I are going to be appearing on Gnostic Informants channel on Thursday
evening. And we're probably going to be talking some more about Isaiah chapter 61, because apparently
this is the topic to your this week. Oh, and I guess you and I and
Josh, yeah, are going to be on. Oh, yeah. Well, I think it's Wednesday. I think it's tomorrow,
actually. Yeah, tomorrow. And then I'm trying to do a stream for David McDonald. We got to get
him some subscribers. So I'm hoping Thursday we could do something even for a little while to
try and push his channel to get to break 1000 subs. Oh, okay. I'm hoping that David McDonald.
Let me just look here. Is that deep? Yeah, yeah, yeah. So I'm going to be on,
I'm going to be on his show in March. The goal is between now and March, I'm trying to help push
his channel to get him over 1000 subs so that you can, you know, get monetized and stuff like that.
Try to help the community. Yeah, people. Yeah. Let me cost you nothing to subscribe.
Let's get him some right now, actually. Totally. We haven't pumped it out Thursday. I'm hoping to
pump it out there. He has 600 subs. We literally need 400 more. And he can do that. Yeah. So here
is the YouTube. So I will be appearing on, it's a mega stream, people. A mega stream. You're
not kidding. It'll be myself. Dr. Joshua Bowen, Dr. Jennifer Bird, Dr. Dan McClellan, Dr. Moat,
the famous Matthew P. Munger. We're all going to be there. And we're all going to be talking about
biblical slavery. We're going to be talking about slavery in the Bible, slavery as it developed
through 2nd Temple Judaism in it to the New Testament, slavery, the implications of this
in the modern world, and much of the apologetics that's used to excuse it. It's going to be good.
Absolutely. Make sure you stay tuned. Kip, you're going to be all over the place. You're already
all over the place. But you're going to be all over the place. And I have a course coming out.
I was just about to say that we have, I might as well tease them a little. What do you think?
Like just to at least show them? Do you have something that we can... Nothing edited?
Tease them with? Yes. Something I could tease them with, but I'm not... This is exciting because...
All right. I'm going to let people in on my little secret here. If you've stayed this long,
you have earned your salvation for real. We don't do the one saved thing over here. You earn it.
As you dig that up, it's interesting, Derek. I came out to my family over the Christmas holidays
as an atheist. My wife and I, and my brother. Really? Yeah. And it's very interesting because
my stepmother is convinced that we're all fine because once saved, always saved. But my father,
who is married to my stepmother, is convinced that we're all going to hell.
So, yeah. Lip a coin, man. So, this is just so you know, these are the high quality
course recordings, which I haven't edited yet. But if you want to see Dr. Kip's mug to give you a
teaser here, I'm going to show you here. It's in 4K, guys. Oh, it's high quality, man. It's
definitely high quality. So, be on the lookout for that. And these are courses that we have to edit,
also going back to that, just to show them that. This is the course recordings. You also have the
Patreon recordings that we did, which, let me see, let this thing load up. This is all Patreon,
my angle. I had Derek Bennett join me for some and Kip, which I got questions answered for those
who support the Patreon. I don't play around. You help support me. I'll try my best to make
people happy there. And I pop it up, but I really don't know if you saw the face of Kip. You're
going to be terrified. 24 recordings. Yeah, it's a lot. This is all just, these are just Patreon.
And then we have YouTube promotional ones. So, these are all just you, right? And I'm working on
these. These are all coming soon once the course is out. And that's a 19 lecture course. I think
it's 18 or 19. Anyway, it's a lot. We got a lot with Kip coming. Sorry, my course?
Your course. 18. Yeah, 18. 18. Yeah. Right now, I've been editing Dennis McDonald courses.
There's Dennis's angle. There's my angle. The audio from StreamYard that I've been getting. I've
got the YouTube promos. Dennis, so this is all Dennis stop for YouTube. My angle. I mean,
there's a lot here. I've got so much. This is the finals. I've already recorded three. I almost want
to tease people. Can I tease people here, Kip? Sure. This is coming up with Dennis. Actually,
let me do this. Let me do this. People are getting like front row secrets here. Okay. Here we go.
Let me do share screen. What does, no, not that. Scrolling down. Bear with me. Bear with me.
Let me do this here. Boom. Okay. Here we are. Let me know if you can hear this too. Dude,
I'm telling you this course blew my mind, even re-listening to it. I have the privilege of both
recording it and then having to digest the material by editing it. Check this out.
Oh, wow. That looks awesome. Huh? Sorry, I was just saying that looks awesome.
Yeah. It looks, already looks good.
Welcome to a course we're doing here with Dr. Dennis R. McDonald. I hope that you learned
something new. I know you will if you stay tuned. Dennis McDonald, you've been working on...
Oh man, dude, I'm telling you there's, guess how many lectures, guess how many just in that one
course. Just like with you, man, a lot. I have just in Dennis's course, these three are final.
I've still got 15 to go. There's 18 lectures we did and we dive in to compare like the Mimesis,
the Greek, comparing the stories from the baptism of John to Telemachus being empowered by Athena
in the Greek epics. And I mean, I'm putting visuals, bro. I'm doing hard work here,
so I cannot wait to like launch this and get people acquainted because nobody, bro, nobody.
Nobody has Dennis R. McDonald in 4K, like really doing it big. And Dennis called me the other day
and he said, Derek, he says, I have never seen anything of my work that nice. So I...
That's nice. That's awesome. Yeah. Sweet. Very cool. Anyway, final words from you. All right.
No, other than that, Michael Heizer will be missed. I know he's widely loved.
He's left a big mark. And yeah, I value the legacy.
Thank you, Kip. Thank you for your time. You didn't have to join me, but I appreciate it.
Go subscribe to Kip Davis and be on the lookout for his course. Follow him. He's all over the
place now on YouTube, so be on the lookout. All right. Thanks, Kip. Hey, everybody. Have a good one.
Rest in peace, Michael Heizer. And I hope his family and everybody... I hope they heal. Thank you.
Son, do you want to know what the truth is? After this, there's no turning back. You take the blue
pill and you wake up in your bed and believe whatever you want to. You take the red pill
and you stay in Wonderland. And I show you just how deep the rabbit hole goes.
Remember, all I'm offering is the truth. Nothing more.
