Hey, Dr. Luther, what are you doing with the frog?
Yeah, this is a beautiful green frog here,
and it's kind of wearing a bow tie.
You know, there's this legend, Derek,
that if you kiss a frog, it'll turn into,
well, in my case,
I sure would love it to turn into a princess.
You know, I think that would be really nice.
So, you know, see what happens.
I mean, here I go, this is the frog right here,
and I'm about to kiss it,
and maybe it'll turn into a princess.
So, here I go.
Okay, everybody watching.
No, no, no, no, no, no,
I'm not gonna turn into a princess.
No!
What's a frog?
Always a frog.
Oh, what's going on here?
This frog did not turn into a princess.
It's still a frog, can you see it?
It's still green, and it's still got bug eyes.
What is going here?
So, Derek, what are we learning from this?
What's going on here?
Look, you can't take the Old Testament
and make it the New Testament.
That's what's going on.
They're trying to change what the New Testament really is
and make it fit the Old Testament.
They just don't fit, but you're about to see that.
So, here we go.
We are MythVision.
Home of MythVision Podcast and MythVision Radio Group.
My co-host is Derek Lambert.
I'm Dr. Luther G. Williams.
You'll find us on Facebook where you can like us
and catch up on the latest research and upcoming guests.
On YouTube, like and subscribe, comment, share,
link to us, and let us know your coordinates
in cyberspace, okay?
Here come that PayPal and Patreon.
Look out, don't let them get past you.
Show us some love, will you?
Now, Derek and I are very excited about today's show
and our very special guest.
Robert Eisenman is a scholar, novelist, essayist,
author of the New Testament Code, The Cup of the Lord,
the Damascus Covenant, and the Blood of Christ in 2006.
He wrote that.
His magnum opus, many say, is James the brother of Jesus,
the key to unlocking the secrets of early Christianity
in the Dead Sea Scrolls.
That was in 1998.
The Dead Sea Scrolls and the First Christians, 1996.
Yes, it is.
As a matter of fact, I'm not gonna delay.
I wanna show that one.
Can everybody see this book?
That's not the Penguin copy you got there.
That's the English copy.
Well, this English copy, along with the index,
is some 1,073 pages.
So it says we- The Penguin one,
the Penguin one is still in print in the United States.
I don't know about that, and I can't say for long.
Well, wonderful.
I tell you, as we say in the business,
it's a chunk of change.
Also, you did Islamic Law in Palestine and Israel,
a history of the survival of Tanzimat and Sharia,
and co-editor of the facsimile edition
of the Dead Sea Scrolls in 1989,
and the Dead Sea Scrolls Uncovered in 1992.
He is Professor of Middle East Religions
and Archaeology and Islamic Law,
and the Director of the Institute
for the Study of Judeo-Christian Origins
at California State University Long Beach
and visiting senior member of Linnaker College in Oxford.
He holds a Bachelor of Arts degree
from Cornell University in Philosophy
and Engineering Physics,
a Master of Arts degree from New York University
in Near Eastern Studies,
and a Doctorate in Philosophy from Columbia University,
a Doctorate of Philosophy in Middle East Languages
and Cultures and Islamic Law.
He was a senior fellow at the Oxford Center
for Postgraduate Hebrew Studies,
and listen to this, this is important,
an American Endowment for the Humanities Fellow in Residence
at the Albright Institute of Archaeological Research
in Jerusalem,
and that's where the Dead Sea Scrolls were first examined.
Now, in the early 1990s,
Professor Eisenman was the consultant
to the Huntington Library in San Marito, California
on its decision to open its archives
and allow free access for all scholars
to the previously unpublished scrolls,
and that's very important to understand
the spirit of his work.
In 2002, he was the first to publicly announce
that the so-called James Ossuary,
which was so suddenly and miraculously appearing
on the scene was fraudulent,
and he did it the same day that it was made public
on the basis of his astute analysis.
On his website, you can find his books,
articles, reviews, interview, and opinion pieces,
links, photographs.
And I think one of those is a bit more user-friendly,
if I may say so.
The second one, the second one.
Very good.
All right, and his material on YouTube
covers the full range of his interests and activities.
This is important to know.
In presenting his research,
Professor Eisenman has sometimes been attacked,
he's been threatened, he's been sued,
he's had to leave the podium
under possible threat to his person,
and so this is sensitive information.
It does rile some people up, he's passionate about it.
We hope you'll be passionate about it too,
and that's why it's so special to have him with us tonight.
So welcome, Professor Eisenman, how are you this evening?
Trying to survive.
All right, well, let's get right down to business.
Tell us how learning about James,
the brother of the Lord,
can shed some light on our understanding of Jesus.
I call that the Eisenman thesis.
So tell us a little bit about that connection.
James is referred to in Paul's letters,
and he's also appears at the end of the book of Acts,
the last third of the book of Acts.
But you see,
they have a James in the gospels
that people confuse him with.
The brother of John the son of Zebedee,
and so on and so forth.
I don't think the gospel portrait
is or are reliable,
and those are more in the nature of literature.
Whereas Paul's letters are actual events that occur,
and when he's angry at James, he says so.
He says in Galatians, I think it's second chapter,
he mentions him and it's not Zebedee that he's talking about.
He said, not that his importance means anything to me.
So I mean, he makes it,
so that's I would consider to be a negative comment.
The reason he's referring to his importance
is James is the leader of the early church.
But you see, we don't know that
if we go to the church fathers.
You don't have a picture of that either in the gospels.
Later in the book of Acts,
in around from chapter 16 on where the we document
intervenes in the narrative, I say we document,
the early part of Acts is like the gospels,
he, they, she, et cetera, third person,
singular and plural.
But around 16, you have a different document, I, we,
and that looks like it's from an actual travel diaria,
probably from Luke, or someone like Luke,
and that one has James the brother of Jesus.
So, you know, and Paul speaks in one Galatians,
James the brother of the Lord.
So he knows that this James exists,
even if he doesn't like it, or if he's at odds with him.
Well, the point is that this second part
of the book of Acts really enlightens us who this James is.
And he's the leader of the early church.
Peter is not the leader of the early church.
You know, all of this is mythological
from the literary presentation of the gospels.
So if you want to go to a really true picture,
go to the we document in Acts,
and I don't like to compliment Acts,
but the we document is a very convincing presentation.
But like in chapter 21, Paul goes up to Jerusalem,
and who is he going to see?
James the brother of the Lord.
He's not come up, the others may have died,
or supposedly disappeared, or whatever.
One supposedly went to Spain.
I mean, all that is, I would say unreliable to be kind.
But James, they're not in Jerusalem.
They're not leading the church.
And also this James has a super cat.
He's always called the righteous one.
James the righteous.
And that's a special title.
The Dead Sea Scrolls, the righteous teacher,
the teacher of righteousness.
Every time he's referred to in a text,
which is what I build my presentation on,
the word they're interpreting and explaining is the tzadik,
the righteous one.
The tzadik in Kabbalah and the Hasidim is the righteous one.
And he's always the leader in those presentations.
And in the scrolls, the tzadik leads the community.
And James is the leader of the early church
for the second part of the book of Acts.
And as far as Paul is concerned,
because he knows that he's getting his instructions
from James and he doesn't like it.
Professor Eisenman, something interesting about James
and there's a dichotomy between James and Paul.
Now we've heard you say that obviously Paul's not teaching
the same things as James is pretty apparently clear.
But he's mildly.
Right, so if you could,
could you touch on that a little bit?
And then also I wanted to give you something in mind on that.
There are some people who say that Paul
and all the New Testament is preaching to only Israelites
that the Gentiles are actually secret diaspora Israelites.
Can you give us some insight?
Well, shall we say that the only real audience Paul
and his associates would have had would have been Gentiles.
So if you want to call them Jews, go ahead.
But Jews obviously rejected the Pauline approach.
They didn't really follow the James approach.
They didn't follow the Dead Sea Scrolls.
You know, the Dead Sea Scrolls were put into the caves
and the movements followers or members
or whatever you want to call it were clearly, I think,
mostly if not all kill a few managed to escape the Romans.
Because I think all these people you see participated
in the uprising against Rome.
That's what's so important.
The uprising against Rome occurred in 66 to 70 AD or CE.
And the temple was destroyed at that time.
And I really have an interesting point about that
because in my little works,
I always speak about people asking about the copper scroll.
And recently I saw a presentation of the copper scroll
on I think it was spy TV.
And they were saying the scholars talking
about the copper scroll is a work in copper
found in among the Comron caves.
And it's a treasure list of hiding places
and huge, quite huge amounts of treasure.
So they all say, well, what happened to this treasure?
Where did it all go?
And it's quite clear.
And I've made that clear in my books long before
this program I saw that this is the temple treasure.
And why is it the temple treasure?
The Essings or the Revolucer didn't have huge amounts
of gold.
How come it's the temple treasure?
Because during the uprising,
the opposition, Zellach type movements
had control of the temple mount.
And therefore they would have been able,
they knew the Romans were gonna take the temple,
though they would have been able to try to hide
the temple treasure.
Those amounts are the temple treasure.
I said this in my books.
And I said, but I don't think they did.
And so these people said, well, what happened?
What happened?
Look at these hiding places.
Well, the Romans were very good at torture,
extremely good at torture.
And don't you think if there was any gold or treasure
out there anywhere, they would find it.
And if they couldn't find it, they would torture you
in every way until you came up with it.
They were not people who were very sympathetic
to people keeping secrets or anything.
And short of committing suicide,
you wouldn't be able not to disclose it.
So I said in my book, oh, sure,
they can't find anything because the Romans got it all.
They got it all.
But even more than that, I say in my book
that Titus and Vespasian, the Roman generals
who came to Palestine in the late 60s
and put down the uprising that they then went back
to Rome and built the Colosseum.
And I say in my book, well,
that's the money, the treasure.
Where did they get the substance to build this huge,
you know, this huge stadium of death?
And it's just the opposite, of course,
of the Temple of Treasure.
So in this TV program I was watching on the copper scroll,
they were all discussing it
and they were asking these kinds of questions.
At the very end of this,
they actually show that they recently found in Rome
a low down on the Colosseum,
a hidden kind of inscription that they had to,
like a pair away, a small inscription from that period,
not a later bearing, that said,
this structure was built by Titus and Vespasian
from the proscenes of their war in Judea.
And that's exactly what I said in my books
before they even found this inscription.
And I have no doubt that that is the truth.
The Temple of Treasure went into building
the Roman Colosseum.
And when I went in the Colosseum,
I wouldn't go in it for that reason.
Because it's a blood sport,
pagan, horrific monstrosity
in terms of not the beautiful, the architecture.
No, what took place then?
Agreed.
Luther, you're muted, brother.
It's a symbol of anti-Semitism,
but anti-Semitism really pervades
the New Testament scriptures as we know it.
How did that happen, Professor Eisenman?
Well, the Colosseum isn't a symbol of anti-Semitism.
It's they were killing all kinds of prisoners there,
in gladiatorial combats and everything like that
with animals.
What they did in the Colosseum was revolving.
Yeah, they did put a lot of their Jewish prisoners
to death there, I'm sure.
But they hadn't probably built it by that time.
So they weren't the ones who were really involved
in the gladiatorial contest at that time.
Anti-Semitism in the New Testament.
Tell us about it.
Anti-Semitism flows out of the Gospels
because the Jews are presented
as doing all these things to Jesus.
And that produces a negative effect
when in fact, probably the revolutionary Jews
were being led by people like Jesus, James, and others.
So, I mean, all that is part of the literary reconstruction.
And who did that literary reconstruction?
People that ended up in Rome after the war.
Josephus, Paul, we know that the governor in Caesarea
protected Paul with a Roman soldier escort,
rescuing him from the Jewish crowd in the temple,
who were saying, this man preaches against our people,
against the temple, and against this land.
And he was being mobbed in the temple when he came in.
They didn't want him to be there.
And someone had already prearranged
because James sent him into the temple.
James wanted him to go into the temple
when he came up in Acts 2121.
He said, okay, go into the temple
to show there's no truth to the rumors we've heard about you
that you preach against the law against the temple.
And we know that he does do that, according to his letters.
We know there is no truth to these things.
Go into the temple and pay for four men,
four people we have here under oath, Nazarite oath,
a very specific oath.
You could take a lifelong Nazarite, right, like Samson,
but you could take a temporary Nazarite oath
at the end of which you have to pay some money in there.
And the temporary Nazarite oath
is what James is talking about.
Four people, and we know you have money,
so you can, Paul was raising money, you can pay for this.
So nothing low, he goes into the temple,
according to, this is the we document now,
Acts 2122, et cetera, he goes into the temple,
and with the money he's raising to pay
for four people they have under Nazarite oath.
Now that shows you that James people observed Nazarite oaths.
But Paul was not, you know, James wanted him to show,
to show he was a hypocrite,
to show that he was, you know,
he preached one thing overseas,
and when he came to Palestine,
he was willing to do something else.
Anyway, to show him up, shall we say.
And so he wasn't embarrassed to do this,
but the people in the temple saw him, the mob,
and they said, we know this person, you know,
he preaches against our people, against the temple,
and there was a huge riot, and they threw Paul out,
et cetera, and closed the door behind him,
and then the Roman troops come down
from the parapets from Antonia,
and rescue him from the mob.
And he says, you're a Roman citizen, right?
He shows supposedly, they don't have a passport,
but he makes it clear to them that he is,
or they already know that he's a Roman citizen.
He said, do you let the crowd do this to Roman citizens?
He says to the troops, and the troops rescue him,
and it's in Acts, and force the crowd to listen to him preach,
and then take him under armed escort to Caesarea,
where the Roman governor is, and they protect him,
it's protective custody, and they send him to Rome
in protective custody, and when he gets to Rome,
he himself, he was perfectly free, and there was nothing,
there were no charges or anything against him at all,
and we don't know what happened after that.
Professor Isaman, one thing about Paul
that I think is so important that a lot of Christians
don't realize is he is the creator, technically,
of Christianity, so to speak.
Yeah, that's what we were gonna talk about,
this being, those gospel talkers were written in Rome,
and Alexandria France, by people like Paul Josephus,
who was a traitor, who went over to Titus and Vespasian
to save his life, and proclaim Vespasian the next,
Vespasian the next, the Messiah,
who was to come out of Palestine to rule the world,
he applied the Messianic prophecy to Vespasian Josephus,
this is how cynical he was, that's cynical,
it's all in his book, in his autobiography,
is what's called the Vita.
Anyway, these are the people who are in Rome,
plus a lot of Herodians who have sought refuge in Rome
from the Herodian family, and it turns out
that Paul admits that he is from the Herodian family.
Yeah, he admits at the end of Romans,
where he sends greetings to his kinsmen,
the littlest Herod, it's in chapter,
I don't remember what the number,
but something like, the last chapter of Romans,
he sends greetings to his Herodian kinsmen.
Holy crap.
I mean, I don't know, Christians don't read
that scripture very carefully, obviously,
because if you read it, and just don't pray,
and worship, and all this sort of thing,
and look up at a cross, and do prayers, and all that,
but if you actually read the documents,
read Paul's letters, there is no brotherly love
in Paul whatsoever, there is no Christian charity.
The people he hates, he hates, and he doesn't like James,
and I can't remember some of the passages,
but I take Paul's letters as authentic
in terms of being historical in some of the Galatians,
one and two Corinthians, some people talk about parts
of Romans, but certainly that last part of Romans
is not, no one could invent that.
And a few other ones, Philippians, and so on.
So the letters and the we document,
that's what I would start my history of Christianity with.
You've taken the position that the attack on Stephen in Acts
is really an overwrite for the attack on James by Paul.
What led you to that conclusion?
Well, that attack on Stephen is in the...
A, historical parts of Acts.
He, they, a third person narrative like the Gospels.
And I didn't ever accept that there was a Stephen
who was converted, it came up to the temple,
and so on, it was attacked in the temple,
et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
But we know that James was attacked in the temple,
and by that, not by his like-minded Jewish followers,
but by the pro-Roman, but by the pro-Roman Pharisee,
and others like that who were collaborating
with the Roman authorities, the people collaborating with,
and therefore rabbinic Judaism is not really very,
focused on things like the Dead Sea Scrolls,
because that's a different kind of Judaism.
And that's an anti-Roman, totally law-oriented,
and you don't have a discussion of the legal points
and softening them, hardening them,
changing them into something else that you get
in Halacha and rabbinic discussion in the Talmud
and other later documents.
So the Pharisees, rabbinic Judaism as it were,
though it did help preserve Judaism for a long period,
it is not the ethos of the Jewish people in Palestine
in the first century who were fighting the Romans,
it's the ethos of those who were cooperating with the Romans.
I got a question for you, if you don't mind,
Professor Eisenman, about Paul,
because Paul seems to be, he's a huge target in this,
because he's stirring some serious stuff up
going on here in the first century.
How much influence would you say Rome
and the powers that be in Rome during the times
around Paul's writings had an influence
on the documentation of either Paul
or even the New Testament Gospels
similar to our friends from the Creating Christ book,
James Viatt and such, do you think that maybe
the Caesars have some involvement
in their communication?
Well, the publisher of Josephus,
it was a secretary of the Flavians,
the new dynasty sending around Titus and Vespasian,
and his name was, it's in Philippians,
what's his name, the one that Paul sends to Rome?
I don't hear you, the sound has gone off.
Epaphroditus, Epaphroditus.
Yeah, that's who it is, Epaphroditus.
Yeah, yeah.
So you think he might have-
So he would be the kind of person who would be involved
in the writing of the New Testament.
Paul was in Rome, Josephus was in Rome,
the Herodians were in Rome, Epaphroditus was in Rome.
So what we have in the Gospels
at least starts to flow from them.
And then you have certain variations,
you know, the four Gospels and so on.
Even John is a different sort of a stream of stuff,
but it's like-minded.
Like you have things like, love your enemy.
That is a pro-Roman statement.
Whereas the Dead Sea Scrolls say what?
Hate the sons of the pit.
So they don't believe in loving their enemy,
just the opposite.
And they have a war scroll.
A war scroll where the war of the sons of light
against the sons of darkness,
where they're preparing for a final apocalyptic war
against all evil on the earth.
And they're not in love with any of the people
in the Roman sphere at all.
And this is not Pauline Christianity.
It's not rabbinic Judaism,
but it is like the Dead Sea Scrolls.
And I would submit, I think the scrolls were part of this.
That's why I subtitle one of my books,
The Messianic Movement in Palestine.
It was part of the messianic,
and the scrolls, people don't realize
the Dead Sea Scrolls are messianic,
but they're not pro-Roman messianism.
They're anti-Roman messianism.
They're not love your enemy messianism.
I mean, I'm not trying to advertise
and make people love something
and cover up a very harsh positions,
but they, as I said,
they are hate the sons of the pit messianism.
And they're nicer to have loving messianism, you know?
It goes down better, it makes you feel better,
you know, you can have a lot of friends,
but that's not what the people in Judea,
if you want to call it that, are Palestine.
We're feeling or thinking.
And I'm sure Jesus wasn't either.
And he didn't end up on the cross by accident,
if he did end up on the cross,
because that's what the Romans did to revolutionaries.
So the New Testament is in very,
very determined mode to explain away his cross,
his execution on the cross.
And, but it didn't want to blame the Romans.
It wanted to blame the Jews somehow,
somehow the Jews and the Jews forbade crucifixion.
They didn't allow it.
It was a forbidden form of punishment.
So to blame the crucifixion on Jews
in any way, shape, or form is just so
untenable, it's out of this world.
Don't hear you.
I don't know why this sounds like that.
Luther, you mind if I ask him another one?
I don't know, did I answer your question?
Okay, Derek, did he answer your question?
Yes, absolutely.
Go ahead, Luther, go ahead.
Okay, tell us something.
I want to get a little deeper into-
Right, let me ask another one first,
before we go up on those.
What did you want to ask him for us?
You got to follow up.
Paul uses the language.
He hijacks the Dead Sea Scroll language.
He's using these messianic, militant,
Jewish people's language, and he flips it on his head
and starts making Rome look good,
like anyone who's following his message
is the sons of light,
and that these guys are the sons of darkness.
Can you talk about some of those?
Right, he is doing that all of the time,
and I don't have the passages in front of me
that I could refer to that you do.
But yeah, Paul is reversing
the ideology of the scrolls,
and I think since I think James is the righteous one,
the leader of the Palestinian messianism,
and also the same as the righteous teacher
of the Dead Sea Scrolls,
I think the two movements are the same,
and the scroll literature is what we would,
I would call Palestinian messianism.
So Paul is turning that on its head
and reversing everything in it,
and it works, it works,
it would work extremely well,
along with the gospel, fleshing it out,
and we have it now for,
I don't want to destroy anything,
but it's worked for 1800, 1900 years,
and it attracts people extremely well.
That doesn't mean it reflects anything
that happened in Palestine.
That flows perfectly into my next question.
Go ahead.
The philosophical positions held in Palestine,
what do we learn about them
from the Dead Sea Scrolls, particularly,
how the Qumran community related to the zealots,
the Sakari, the Pharisees, the Sadducees, et cetera.
Give us some insight into that.
Well, you see that the Qumran community,
at one point even got a little bit of a shock,
at one point even called themselves zealots for the law,
and they used the zealot terminology.
They are anti-Farasai totally, Farasai Judaism.
They're anti-the Roman establishment,
the Herodian establishment,
anyone who cooperates with the Herodian establishment.
So you get this whole thing,
and the scrolls were ultimately,
some of them taken up to Masada.
And if you know what Masada was,
Masada is where the group that's of Josephus
pejoratively calls Sakari,
because he says they were called Sakari
because they like to cut people's throats.
The Sika was the Roman knife or something like that.
And, you know, he demonizes them
when, in fact, the word Sakarius
can mean something quite different, it can mean zealot.
So, I mean, the point of the matter is that,
Josephus, I'm saying anyway,
says the people who committed suicide on Masada
were cut throats, but that isn't true.
They were the final remnants.
We found Dead Sea Scrolls on Masada.
That means if you wonder what happened
to the people of the scrolls,
they probably were the ones
who committed suicide on Masada,
but rather than be taken prisoner,
they committed suicide.
And so, none of them would have survived to any extent,
except ones who had gone to Northern Syria
or down into Egypt.
And we do have scrolls influencing Islam.
There's a lot of Dead Sea Scrolls,
and I traced it somewhat in my books.
I can't give it to you right now,
but there's a lot of scroll influence in the Koran.
You can listen to my courses on Islam,
on my websites, RobertEisenman.com, RobertHEisenman.com.
I have a lot of YouTube's up there,
of my courses on Islam, et cetera.
And I do go into the influence
when reading the Koran of some passages
by the Dead Sea Scrolls,
and the ethos of the Koran is very much like the scrolls.
Not like Christiane, as you know,
because it's much more aggressive,
much more unbending, much more uncompromising.
Luther, you get two since I hijacked the second one, brother.
Well, I didn't finish the answer.
What else did you want me to say
regarding what your question was?
Luther.
You covered a number of the groups
we were talking about, the Zikari, the Zealots, and so forth.
My next question is really about this distinction you make
between historical writings and literature.
Between historical writings and literature.
And I think that's a point well-taken.
You talk about the supernaturalness of the Gospels
and that as they progressed, some weird things happened.
Brothers became cousins and fathers became uncles
and mothers got somehow turned into their own sisters.
How do you keep things straight
in the light of all this literature bending?
What's going on here?
Read my books.
That's the only way to keep it straight.
You can't keep it straight unless you can look at passage
by passage that I cite in my books
and also cite in my lectures and courses
that you can get on my website.
But I can't advise anyone how to keep it straight
other than by reading.
I think I'm one of the only ones
who approaches the subject in this manner
and gives you these kind of passages.
So that's why I say read my books.
If I had someone else I could recommend you.
Who has it all straight, I would, but I'm not familiar.
You mentioned somebody about, he may be also good,
but I'm not familiar with anyone who's got it all straight
who can keep you on the straight and narrow.
You know, Professor Eisenman,
I'm definitely, everybody's gonna see
that your books are in the description here.
I wanna make sure they know that at this point.
If you're watching this, they're in the description.
I'm gonna give a list of all his books
so that you guys have access to that.
James, the brother of Jesus,
something that I wanted to bring to your attention.
There's a group of people who are obviously trying
to approach this New Testament text
and they're suggesting that salvation
is only for Israel in the New Testament, right?
And so, of course, Jesus comes
for the lost sheep of Israel, et cetera, et cetera.
And they get into Paul and every time it says Gentile
or there's neither Jew nor Greek,
they don't mean Greek, they mean diaspora, Hellenized Jew.
And so, do you have any anywhere
that you would obviously suggest that it is Israel's only
coming from Paul or that it might be something
that Paul's really broke it, breaking down the door
and giving this to even the pagan world?
Do you think he's limiting it?
Sure, he's taking his teaching is for the pagan world
and they're the ones who accepted it.
And they became the kind of Christianity
we're all familiar with now.
Most Jews did not accept it.
And I don't see how you could say it has anything
to do with Judaism or Jews pro-Roman or anti-Roman
because it's very anti-Semitic.
And so, I don't see, and it's anti-Lull on things like that.
He calls the law curse at one point.
I mean, no Jew would ever say that the law of Mosin
is a curse, it's just not possible.
So, as he's wanted to talk like that,
no Jew would be able to in good conscience be part of this.
So, these people who are saying these things
are conjuring it up out of their imaginations.
And I can't respond to people who are basically
reflecting their own mindsets and imaginary insights.
Thank you for answering that, Luther.
Am I up again, Derek?
No, you're fine now, Derek.
Yes, sir.
I think that's you.
You got confused.
Oh, is it?
I asked the last, yeah, I asked the last question.
Yay, I get another question.
Awesome.
Okay, awesome.
This is you.
I'm going to just go straight for the throne.
I'm going to go straight for the throne.
I'm going to go straight for the throne.
I'm going to go straight for the throne.
I'm going to just go straight for the throne.
Dr. Eisenman, thank you so much for this,
but I got to lay this out here.
Is Jesus portrayed in the New Testament
fulfilling any prophecies of the Old Testament?
Is he actually, or are they fabricating this whole story
and making this a fulfillment?
That's a question I had.
First of all, I would say the only real proof
that Jesus exists is that James existed
and that James was the leader of the early church.
So there was, in fact, someone, someone,
the brother of James.
But what historically we know about,
and I think probably Paul says at the beginning of relations,
I know only that he was crucified.
I believe that probably he was crucified,
this person that we're talking about,
but for the authentic reasons.
That's because he was anti-Roman revolutionary person
who was actually willing to use violence ultimately.
So a typical person who was part of the Zealot,
Sikari, Messianic, Qumran,
I call them Messianic Sadducees.
Most people don't even realize
there was an opposition Sadducee group
because the Dead Sea Scrolls refer to themselves
as Sons of Zadok.
And the Sons of Zadok is what the Sadducees base their terminology on.
So they are, you have to say that the Scrolls are Sadducees,
but they're totally anti-establishment Sadducees
of the priesthood in Jerusalem.
They're opposition Sadducees,
and I call them that opposition Sadducees,
or, better word, Messianic Sadducees.
And then you never, no one would ever realize
there was such a thing as a Messianic Sadducee,
but the Scrolls are Messianic Sadducees.
Thank you. Thank you so much.
And Sadducee also relates to the word righteous
because the Zdk he would build on roots.
So Zdk is the name of David's high priest,
Zadok, that's where the term Sadducee comes from.
But it also relates to Zdk, the Zadik, Z-D-D-I-K,
and I and O are interchangeable in the ancient Hebrew script.
So I mean, it's not clear that this word Sadducee
is not based on the righteous one.
And so the sons of Zadok could for the Scrolls
be sons of the Zadik,
and I think that's how they would have played to the word,
whether they meant only that, I can't say,
but nothing like establishment Sadducees.
Professor Eisenman, you're attuning us to the necessity
of understanding the depth of the language.
Do we need a new translation of the Dead Sea Scrolls,
and if so, why?
Well, I've given my translation of some of the principal documents,
and I wouldn't rely on a lot of scholars
for translations new or old anyway.
So I don't think a new translation is going to help anybody,
frankly, they'll make the same mistakes they always make,
and having to do there with their mindset,
and that the Scrolls are second century BC
and that they're peaceful Essenes,
and that they're this, and that they're that,
and they're not Essenes, they're not peaceful Essenes,
they're zealot Essenes,
and Zechariah Josephus says,
or rather Philo of Alexandria said,
there were four groups of Essenes,
there were the regular sort of peaceful Essenes,
and then there were zealot Essenes and Zechariah Essenes,
and you can imagine that Zechariah Essenes,
you know, terrorist Essenes,
and I think the Masada people,
they committed suicide, they went up to Masada,
and rather than surrender the Romans,
we found criminal documents, Dead Sea Scroll documents,
up there, they all committed suicide, as I've said.
Now, James, the brother of the Lord,
in my view, as Paul calls him,
is I say, without James, we could not,
I say, who and whatever James was, so was Jesus.
So if you want to know who Jesus was,
you've got to study the historical James,
and that's the only, and I end my James book by saying that,
who and whatever James was, so was Jesus.
That's the last sentence in that book,
and I took like a thousand pages to delineate who James was.
So if you're a Christian in quotes,
and you really want to know something about this character, Jesus,
look into his brother, who not only succeeded him,
if we can say that, but was the leader
of the early church in Palestine at the time,
Paul came up in the 50s and 60s,
and clearly was done to death by establishment groups,
Roman and rabbinic, but his followers,
he says, I think at one point,
he calls them the sons of the covenant.
His followers were sons of the covenant.
Professor Eisenman, I have two questions,
but I'm going to hold one for after this response,
so you don't get sidetracked.
The first question I want to take is,
let's focus on James, since you were just talking about him.
His letter that says it's from James
to the scattered Israelites abroad,
what do you find wrong with that letter?
I mean, is that letter been tampered with, or is that-
To me, everything is wrong with that letter.
I don't find that letter in any shape, way, or form.
Okay, and then the second-
I can't comment on it.
To me, that's a very unreliable letter,
and I don't think it's anything to do with James's real thoughts.
A few things in it, perhaps.
Okay, yeah, because it's all in the law.
You asked me to comment on that.
So the first greeting there,
I mean, I can't possibly comment on that.
What did you say the greeting was again?
Oh, well, to the scattered Israelites abroad.
What about it?
Yeah, it just sounds like something-
Well, he quotes the law, so it's like it's-
Whoever's writing it sounds like they could be trying to
be pro-Torah, and
they say Lord Jesus Christ-
He quotes who you're saying?
Oh, no, no, no.
They sound to be quoting Torah,
and he keeps calling Jesus Christ Lord.
Lord Jesus Christ.
Is that something that-
That wouldn't go down.
That wouldn't go down.
You don't have that sort of thing in the Dead Sea Scrolls.
You want your guideline, look at the Dead Sea Scrolls.
They don't even call the Righteous Teacher Lord Righteous Teacher.
They don't use that kind of language.
That's pagan language.
That has to do with Greco-Roman literature.
Those are the gods and goddesses in Greco-Roman literature,
and a lot of this attitude is influenced by Greco-Roman literature,
and that's why it's all written in Greek,
because the people who are writing it come from a Greco-Roman cultural background.
I can't hear you.
Thank you.
Derek?
Oh, you mind if I ask the second one?
No, I want you to ask your second one.
Man, I love you.
I love you, dude.
Can I run down and get a copy of the-
Professional courtesy.
Absolutely.
I'm going to ask you a question.
I'm going to ask you a question while you're going,
so you can think about it.
Judas of Galilee.
Is Jesus taking images from Judas of Galilee in the New Testament?
When they made Jesus, do you think they're borrowing from him?
When you get back, please.
I haven't thought about that.
Let me run down and get this.
Yes, sir.
Luther, this is cool, man.
I've got a few wild ideas, of course, but you know.
You're muted, by the way.
You're muted.
You're muted.
How are we doing on time?
I want to keep it to one hour.
Do not exceed one hour.
Do not exceed an hour.
No, don't exceed an hour.
That's what we said, and we need to do that.
We need to honor that.
I want us to honor that, and I expect us to honor that.
Okay.
We've got about 15, 20 minutes tops, and that's it.
All right.
There you go.
15, 20 minutes.
That's it.
Shut it down.
Absolutely.
All right.
Doctorize him in his back.
By the way, everybody, thank you for watching this far.
Be sure to tune in and check out his books.
They're in the description.
James, the brother of Jesus.
That's the penguin.
That's the American.
That's the American edition.
Still in print.
That's the thickness of it.
It's a much better, not a better in terms of what's in it.
It's the same, but it's a much better production.
It's a typical really first rate penguin production.
The one our friend there is showing, which is not bad,
but it's nothing as impressive.
This is still in print here in the United States.
Really lovely.
Thank you.
I'm really proud of that.
Yeah, that is.
I'd go buy a copy online from one of those sources.
You can probably get one for $8 or $9 nowadays.
Yes, sir.
Thank you.
But did you have any thoughts on Judas of Galilee by any chance?
Because Daniel T. Unterbrink.
Judas of Galilee?
Well, I don't pay any attention to what he says.
So I don't really have a lot of respect for what he does.
He took a lot of his ideas from me and then enlarged in his own manner on them.
And they become unrecognizable.
But go ahead.
What did he say on this particular issue?
Can I hear you?
Oh, you know that Jesus is mythologized in the Gospels, which is obvious.
But he says that they took characteristics of the history of what him and Matthias, his father,
and they created certain elements in the Gospels to characterize the Messianic leader at that moment, which was Judas.
Do you see Jesus, even if that's not the guy, do you see the character in the New Testament maybe copying from someone in history, maybe?
Well, I'm sure the writers would take material from wherever they could in terms of being influenced.
So I can't comment that whether they were or not.
But they obviously would take from wherever they could.
I don't think Judas the Galilean you're talking about, is that what you're talking about?
I'm sure that they might get some inspiration from that.
Yeah, I wouldn't doubt that that's possible.
Thank you.
But I mean, it's still all very, very great.
They don't have the material of the historical Jesus, and they haven't written a gospel of the historical Jade yet.
Professor Eisenman.
Yeah, Professor Eisenman.
Let's talk about magic.
Simon Magus of Samaria.
What would have been the Messianic Jews attitude toward him?
It has been said that both Jews and Romans shared an aversion to magic.
Well, from the Jewish side, what do you think about that?
Well, I don't know what kind of Jews you're wanting me to refer to, rabbinic Jews or Comron Jews.
Comron Jews, let's take them.
Let's take Comron Jews.
Simple as that.
There would be no two sides.
And probably rabbinic Jews wouldn't be very happy with any kind of magic of any sort.
So they might have condemned him to be stoned as well.
So then it would not make sense for Simon Magus to have been in line behind John the Baptist, who of course was in great, great esteem among the Comron Jews, but for Simon Magus.
He was a member of the community.
They were all Baptists at the community.
There's a huge amount of baptismal pools in the settlement.
They were all daily bathers, daily immersors.
So John was one of them that came into the literature from Josephus.
Josephus was familiar with him and therefore introduced him to the other outside world people.
And so they co-opted him into their presentation of the Jesus story.
But I don't think that Jesus had to be taught to immerse for purity and holiness on a daily basis by John the Baptist.
It's in all the Dead Sea Scroll literature.
And you know why they were doing that?
Because they were preparing for the final apocalyptic war against all evil on the earth.
And they felt in the war scroll that the holy angels were going to have to join their camps.
They speak of camps in the wilderness, wilderness camps that they're preparing for this war.
And to prepare for the war, and they're not peace-loving as you see, to prepare for the war, they had to be perfectly holy and perfectly pure.
And therefore they had to bathe all the time because the holy angels were going to descend.
The holy angels were their atomic bomb.
They knew they couldn't fight Rome.
This small group of people, you know, 500, a couple of thousand, whatever they were, the Romans would slaughter them.
But they were preparing for the holy angels to join the conflict.
And to join the conflict, they say in the war scroll, the holy angels will come down and join our camps.
But to join our camps, the camps had to be perfectly pure.
Because the holy angels could not abide human impurity.
If they came in touch with human impurity, they couldn't go back to heaven.
They couldn't go back up to heaven.
So they would not come down.
So the point of the matter is that the camps had to be absolutely pure.
And they had to be richly immersion all the time, you know, day and night, daily bathing.
So, you know, we don't need a John the Baptist to teach us this.
It's all in the literature. The Dead Sea Scrolls, though John is part of that literature, I'm sure.
Wow, that is very...
Well, I hadn't heard about it that way.
Doesn't Josephus kind of flip it on its head when he says he saw angels in the heavens when Rome was fighting?
Probably. Yeah, that's a good one. Yeah, I wasn't familiar with that one.
Absolutely flipping it on its head, reversing it again.
Absolutely.
In your opinion...
And he's a tremendous collaborator and someone who flatters other people, a flatterer and a sycophant.
To ask you about...
He's the arch trader. What he should have been done was killed.
We are grateful for the fact that he gave us a document of a full compendium of the period and names and so on.
Even in his autobiography, though, he's not embarrassed to show how he is willing to kill his fellow holdouts in the cave in Galilee where they're fighting the Romans
and then surrender to the Romans and proclaim the space in the world that would come out of Palestine.
This is the arch trader of all traders.
And when he goes and the Romans are encircling Jerusalem, you can get this from his autobiography again, or from the Jewish War, one of the two.
I don't know which...
The Romans use him as a spokesperson to speak to the Jews because they don't speak Hebrew on the walls of the city who are holding out against them.
And they're besieging the city. These are not rabbinic Jews that are being besieged.
These are our Zealot Jews, our Khaman Jews and so on.
And so he goes up there and he's a staggered because he admits that one of the people on the wall took a sling and slung a stone at him and hit him on the head and knocked him down.
And he was not embarrassed to admit that this happened to him, how much they hated him on the walls when they regarded him as a traitor.
He is Mr. Trader Number Two.
I've never known this detail.
I guess I need to go pick up his book.
I guess you do.
You can only imagine too.
We are glad that we have this history.
However, how much history did we really lose that we aren't aware of, written even by the Jews themselves?
So it's kind of a sad thing that we're not getting to see a lot of maybe the insight that may have been going on as well.
Well, the only reason you see that his history survived is that he was a collaborator.
He was a traitor.
Otherwise, his history wouldn't have survived.
The same with the Gospels.
One of the reasons that they ultimately were able to circulate in the Roman empires, they weren't full of anti-Roman antagonism.
And, you know, they were, you know, love your enemy, Ethos.
But if they had been the scrolls, they had to be put in caves and hit me.
Wow.
And the documents on Masada, you know, they were all destroyed, obviously.
But I think those people destroyed their own documents.
I'm not sure what happened there.
Would you think that the Qumran sect of Jews were more true to the Old Testament scriptures?
In my view, yes.
They are what Jewish nationalism is.
I'm not, and, you know, the basis of their ideology and religion is righteousness.
That's everything.
Sadiq, Zadok, you know, righteousness, this play on ZDK, the letters ZDK, Zedek, righteousness as a noun.
And they call themselves the sons of righteousness and so on.
And so, yes, everything they were interested in had to do with righteousness.
And I think that's basically what the scriptures tried to be about.
I'm not sure they succeed.
But the prophets, some of the prophets are really staggeringly good, staggeringly good.
Joseph Atwell talks about the literary devices used in the Gospels.
And one of the things that he, I believe he said it was inspired by your work.
I'm not exactly.
That's true.
Yeah.
Well, yeah, I'm not 100% sure.
But he talks about these names that are used throughout the literature.
Names like these specifically, Simon, Matthias, Eleazar, Judas.
Would those names have been meaningful for Jews in the diaspora or just in Palestine?
Or would they have signaled something to Israel in the diaspora?
Well, why are we distinguishing them between Jews and Israel and Jews in the diaspora?
What you need to do is distinguish between hardcore Zealot type Jews and collaborating Jews.
And it doesn't matter if they're in Israel or in the diaspora.
There are two types.
And ultimately, the only ones who survived are the second type.
The first type all died on Masada or in Qumran and so on.
Or went out into these outlying areas in Iran and Kurdistan and places like that and down into Islam.
Those very xenophobic and Zealot-minded Jews.
And you see that.
I am for them.
But I think that Israel needs to adopt in order to survive.
And one of the reasons that Israel had so much trouble in the first 40 or 50 years
is they didn't know there was too much argument on the Jews what Zionism was.
And there were, again, the usual collaborating Zionists, soft-core Zionists,
and then there were the hardcore Zealot Zionists.
And they never really understood.
Because if they had understood, we wouldn't even have a Palestine question.
Why?
Because the so-called Arabs, and I don't like to call them Arabs, you know,
but let's call them Arabs if you want.
The people who were living in Palestine all left when the Romans came.
And the first who came back were Jews in the 19th century.
And the Palestinians came afterwards because the economic situation in so-called Palestine,
which was a word the British used, because they didn't want to call it a Jewish place,
they invented that term.
That term was not used at the time of Jesus.
It was invented by the Romans when they conquered and destroyed the country,
and they wanted to apply the name Philistine to the country.
It's based on the term Philistine.
It's a Roman version.
Palestine is Philistina.
They didn't want to call it Judea anymore.
And that's where that comes from.
So let's go to the modern period, though.
The mandate for Palestine was created.
That language was created by the British in the 1920s.
No one was referring to the land as Palestine in the Arab period.
It was only Syria.
Now, the point is that this so-called mandate for Palestine,
two-thirds were cut away and given to the family from Mecca for services rendered.
But that was part of the mandate for Palestine.
They already got their state in Transjordan that they gave it to a foreign king.
That's their problem, and they should work it out.
But the Jews, if they had a hard-headed approach to this,
would just be hard-headed, period.
And they said, this little teeny bit you've given us, this third of the mandate,
now you want the Palestinians have three states.
You want Transjordan, Jordan.
You want the West Bank area, and you want Gaza area.
You want three areas.
That wasn't what was originally envisioned.
But Jews don't speak this way.
They don't understand how to put the case.
And if they had understood from the beginning how to put the case,
many of these problems would never have occurred.
If they had gone to the UN and spoke like I'm speaking,
people would not have liked it, but they would have listened.
I'm not listening in the sense of agreeing.
They would have learned something, put it that way.
Excellent point.
So I'm circling back to these heroes of the Jewish people.
Simon, Matthias, Eleazar, Judas, those are some of the strongest names available.
Who's using those names?
Who's using those names?
Those names are used throughout the Gospels.
Those names are used throughout literature, right?
The Gospels are not historical documents, so that doesn't impress me at all.
Okay.
Are those names used in the Qumran documents?
No, of course not.
They don't use names in the Qumran documents at all.
No names in the Qumran documents.
When they call the person, the leader, the righteous teacher,
they don't name you, and so on and so forth.
Holy crap.
Yeah.
No, there are no names.
So nobody's authoring these books at all?
There are names in the Qumran graveyard.
You can go look on the virus markers there and get some names, I'm sure,
but I'm not familiar with the names.
Wow, that's awesome.
Luther, good question, and thank you for telling us that.
That's fascinating, Professor Eisenman.
What a gem.
Hey, look, that's fine.
We are winding down.
I said, we are coming up on an hour.
This is it.
One hour will keep you doing it.
Dr. Eisenman.
I'm getting a pain in my stomach, so when I get a pain in my stomach from talking,
I know I've had it.
Well, thank you so much for joining us, because this was it.
Guys, we're going to have to do another round.
We'll come up with more collective questions based on your books.
Make sure you check out the description of this video.
You saw the books.
They popped up on the screen.
You saw everything.
Look at this, James.
It's still for sale.
Yes.
It's a huge paperback.
A lot of those other books aren't for sale, though.
You can get them on Amazon if you want to order any of my other books.
Every scholar that I've ever read that touches on this topic always refers to Robert Eisenman.
Professor Robert Eisenman, thank you for joining us on MythVision, sir.
And like I said, guys, there's a PayPal.
I will put that in the description.
This is a direct PayPal to his PayPal account where you can donate and help him in his
endeavor, of course, for his research and such.
Thank you, Luther.
Professor Eisenman, it's a privilege to have you.
We hope to have you on the show again soon.
Thanks for having me.
We'll keep in touch.
Thank you, sir.
All right.
