Rome is the issue. It's the Roman world. It's not that they persecuted Jews, it's that they're persecuting Christians.
And everybody basically thought that until the mid-20th century, until people started actually looking seriously into Domitian's reign,
and there's actually no evidence that he persecuted Christians at all.
Of course, there are lots of Christians today in America who argue that, you know, they're the most persecuted group in America,
and you look around, you think, really?
St. Augustine, who's the most important theologian in the history of Christianity, wrote about the book of Revelation
and argued vehemently that it was not a prediction of the future.
Right, that it's talking about stuff going on right now.
In the Bible, in 2 Peter it says that with the Lord a day is as a thousand years and a thousand years as a day,
which means, you know, if you take that, if you really push that, it means that if today you say, you know, Jesus is coming back in three days,
then you can start looking for him around 5,022.
We are MythVision.
Dr. Barty Ehrman is joining me again today.
How are you, my friend?
Well, thanks.
Thank you for giving me another opportunity to have a small chat with you.
Are you?
Let me ask you this.
You're doing these courses.
We're about to have this debate on the resurrection.
I've been plugging it like crazy, done multiple episodes with you, just mentioning this.
But you have other courses as well, which I put down in the description people could sign up for.
Really enjoyed all of them.
Are you planning on going through the entire Bible at some point?
That's the plan.
You know, the first Bible course, like the big series is dealing with the topic of how scholars study,
or how scholars read the Bible.
And it's trying to explain scholarship and layperson's terms so that you understand what scholars are saying,
but it's not going in all the jargon and all the details, just kind of laying it out.
The first part of that was that I did a course on Genesis that was six lectures.
So I'm not going to be doing six lectures on every book of the Bible, because that would be like 150 lectures.
I'm not doing that.
But I am going to be covering the plan.
I don't know if it's going to happen, but the plan is to cover the whole Bible.
And I'm not going to go just chronologically.
I'm not going to go from beginning to end.
I'm going to do different ones at different times.
And so the ones I'm thinking about doing next are the earliest accounts of the life of Jesus.
So to do the Gospels of Matthew and Mark, as Mark and Matthew in that order,
maybe I have like eight lectures on that or so.
But so it's going to be mixing up.
But by the time I'm done, the idea is to have a whole set of lectures I'm dealing with in one way or another pretty much the whole shooting match.
Thank you so much.
I wanted to clarify for a good friend of mine who was asking.
So the upcoming debate with you, Mike Lacona, everyone can go sign up now.
Early bird special.
Get it before the price climbs.
It will be live Q&A with that amount of time.
I highly expect you to be able to get most people's answers, at least to some of the questions that are out there.
If they're good, you got to ask good questions or you're not going to fit the bill.
You're not elect.
You're not a chosen one if you don't.
So Dr. Airman, you have an upcoming book on the book of Revelation.
This book we call the apocalypse.
It's Christians interpret this as about our day today, Ukraine and Russia and all of the nonsense.
I call it nonsense because I once believed like this for many years ago when I was an evangelical fundamentalist and we want everything to be about us.
I think it's been that way for 2000 years.
The church has made this about them and their day.
Irenaeus thought it in his time and then Athanasius took it and used it for this.
And people were reinterpreting Revelation, whether they were spiritualizing it or they were taking it as this is talking about us.
My friends are persecuted and they're the saints that are being beheaded that are under the throne, etc.
I would like to ask a few questions.
Number one, the opening and close of this book.
Write the things down which must soon take place or behold, I come quickly at the end of the book.
The caps to this book are saying that here's the window which this should happen.
When is this supposed to be taking place?
Well, for the author, it's taking place soon.
And the fact that it didn't happen as he described has made Christians over the years think, well, he didn't really mean soon.
He must have meant soon for us.
And people have ways of explaining it which is like in the Bible, in 2 Peter it says that with the Lord a day is as a thousand years and a thousand years as a day.
Which means if you take that, if you really push that, it means that if today you say Jesus is coming back in three days, then you can start looking for him around 5,022.
But I think John certainly, John is writing his book to Christians in Asia Minor.
He's writing to seven churches in Asia Minor and presumably he expected them to get something out of what he was saying.
He's telling them it's going to be soon.
He's not saying, you know, it's going to happen in 2,000 years.
He could have said that, but he's writing to people of his own day and he's telling them, look, it's coming soon.
The final chapter is right.
It says it four times.
It's going to happen soon.
I just wanted to get the timing right from the author's perspective.
Now the next question is, do you agree with the consensus scholarly position that this book or, you know, the writing of Revelation was written around Domitian's reign?
So it is recollect.
It's a recollection saying, you know, the beast is near on Kaiser 666.
The Latin version has it at 616, which still calculates to the same for near on Kaiser or Caesar.
But this is after the Jewish war in 70.
It's probably a PTSD of what happened in 70 in a way.
Would you agree with that?
Like the author saying, look, what happened?
God, you can't.
They're conquering us.
You need to take out Rome.
Am I on the right path here?
A lot of people thought that I don't see.
I think it's definitely after seven.
I think it is.
I think you're right.
I don't see Domitian's reign.
Probably.
And so I don't think I personally don't think that the fall of Jerusalem is the issue for this, for this person.
I'm not convinced this person was a Jew, actually.
And yeah, because it's all people always say that, but it's one of those things that people always say and you kind of wonder what's the evidence exactly.
People often say, for example, that he writes a badly in Greek, which he does because he is native languages, Aramaic or Hebrew.
And I don't think there's any real evidence of that either.
I think the guy just can write very well.
I mean, most people can't.
He writes better than most people in the world still today, but he's not a stylish.
So, so I don't, I don't think that the fall of Jerusalem is the issue.
I do.
I agree with you.
Rome is the issue.
It's the Roman world.
And it's not that they persecuted Jews.
It's that they're persecuting Christians.
Hmm.
And this historically, we can couple that with Domitian's reign.
From what I understand, he was potentially doing something.
It may have been embellished or legendized even worse of a martyrdom situation here.
But is there something going on under Domitian's reign against Christians?
The traditional Christian answer to that is yes.
And that answer goes back to the second century, third century.
People like Tritonians said that Domitian was a persecutor of Christians.
And everybody basically thought that till the mid 20th century until people started
actually looking seriously into Domitian's reign.
And there's actually no evidence that he persecuted Christians at all.
That doesn't mean that John doesn't feel like as much as being persecuted.
John imagines that there are thousands and thousands of martyrs.
Of course, there are lots of Christians today in America who argue that they're far more
persecuted than Muslims, for example.
Or that, you know, they're the most persecuted group in America.
And you look around, you think, really?
So there have been scholars, I mean, for 30, 40 years who've argued that it's not because
there's actually persecution going on.
It's because when you've got a group like this, you know, you feel persecuted
and they certainly were not favored by Romans, that's for sure.
But there's nothing to indicate the Roman emperor, Domitian, had actually persecuted them.
I know there's a lot of reflections back to the Hebrew Bible throughout it.
It does like a repeat almost, like they keep on saying the same thing sometimes repetitive.
Like the 144,000 in Revelation 7.
Oh, it gets repeated in Revelation 14.
Almost like a same story told in a different way.
The saints whose heads they were beheaded that were under the throne.
Who do you think those were?
I know that's a pretty specific question, but I ask because someone might go,
well, they were persecuted and beheaded for their faith.
John thinks they were.
John thinks they're Christians who have been beheaded.
We don't have any record.
The only record we have somebody from the first century being Christian being beheaded is the apostle Paul,
but we don't have a record of that from the first century.
The first record we have a Paul being beheaded is in the Acts of Paul,
which is a late second century, early third century apocryphal text.
We do know that Nero persecuted Christians.
Not because they were Christians.
People don't understand this either.
The reason Nero persecuted Christians is because there have been this big fire in Rome
that burned down like a huge chunk of the city,
and people started blaming Nero for starting the fire because he wanted to build the city
according to his own architectural plan.
Then they thought, well, maybe he torched it then, and he needed to blame somebody.
So he picked on the Christians, not because they were Christians,
but because he said they were arsonists, and he did kill a number of them.
We don't know how many.
It wasn't hundreds and thousands.
I don't know.
But there were no beheadings there.
It was various other gruesome ways of killing people.
So John, though, does imagine that there are lots and lots of Christian martyrs,
and those are the people under the altar who beg for vengeance.
So one more thing I must mention before we wrap up here,
because I really want everyone to read the book.
It was actually studying eschatology and the end that led me out of the Christianity that I was in.
I saw so much confusion and issues.
Jesus, in the words of Jesus in the Gospels, expected things to wrap up very soon.
Paul expected things to wrap up very soon.
Revelation expected things to wrap up very soon.
Did they wrap up?
So the question is, what evidence is there in Revelation?
Because someone will say it's symbolic.
It's apocalyptic language.
You can't really get what it's saying.
So they always have a way of sliding away with a different interpretation.
What can we know for certain that didn't happen,
meaning it felled in the book of Revelation?
So one of the arguments in my book is what you started with,
is actually not predicting what's going to happen in the 21st century.
It is not doing that.
I try to show that.
I try to prove it.
But then what is it talking about then?
And it's important to interpret it correctly.
And the thing is that the author actually gives us some very clear hints
about what it's talking about.
And people don't pay attention to it because they don't read it carefully.
But when you pay attention to it,
he's clearly talking about the Roman Empire and the Roman Emperor
and the city of Rome, and they are the enemy.
And he thinks that they're going to be destroyed soon.
That did not happen.
The book, of course, was the fifth century kind of happened.
But you know, even St.
So when that happened in the fifth century,
St. Augustine, who's the most important theologian in the history of Christianity,
wrote about the book of Revelation and argued vehemently
that it was not a prediction of the future.
And his view held for virtually 1,500 years.
So most people throughout the Middle Ages were not thinking this is predicting the future.
They were thinking that Augustine's right,
that it's talking about stuff going on right now.
And so they gave up on the interpretation that was Rome,
even after Rome fell.
And so, yeah, so the prediction, you know, Rome did not fall.
And so that would, yeah.
And the author, John, really thinks it's going to fall very soon in his day,
sometime in the 90s.
Wow. Well put. Thank you so much.
Everyone, go join down in the description,
get one of the lectures, buy one of the books.
And with Dr. Lacona, I look forward to seeing how you gentlemen,
you know, hash it out in the fighting ring.
Yeah, we've already asked you, you know, what you think is going to happen.
But is there anything you might want to add to this before it happens?
You know, we start out saying, you know, we're not going to make a debate out of this.
We're just going to have an informal exchange of ideas.
This time has gone on, it looks like, yeah, this is going to be a debate.
Yeah.
It really caused me to think a lot about things in more depth than I have before.
And it's going to be interesting to see what kind of arguments come out.
Because I, yeah, we both think the other is completely wrong.
But, you know, my big view is that, you know, people want to believe in the resurrection,
they can believe in the resurrection, but don't treat it as a historical fact
that you can demonstrate, you know, like the signing of the Declaration of Independence.
It's not like that.
And if you think you can prove it, you're misunderstanding it,
and you're actually causing a lot of harm.
Thank you, yeah.
I'm looking forward to that, Dr. Ehrman.
Thank you so much for your time, ladies and gentlemen, in the description.
And never forget, we are MythVision.
Ladies and gentlemen, join MythVision's Patreon, not only to support us,
but there are 72 videos that I did with Dr. Dennis R. McDonald and Richard Carrier,
all on the Patreon, Early Access.
You guys can ask personal questions when I go to interview these scholars,
and you're helping me out.
Thank you.
MythVision Grow.
