Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh,
oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh
This is what I'm doing again
I set an empty eye
be formless, shapeless, like water.
Now you put water into a cup, it becomes the cup.
You put water into a bottle, it becomes the bottle.
You put it in a teapot, it becomes the teapot.
Now water can flow, or it can crash.
Be watered, my friends.
Okay, can the kids come back, Derek?
The kids can come back.
Guys, I've heard a couple things I wrote down.
He brought up the Hindu, the ages, and the time
for the Hindu writings, and so it was 864.
I know that the Sumerian Kings list has 432,000 years,
and that's a lot of people who have been
in the Hindu community for a long time.
And I know that the Sumerian Kings list
has 432,000 years, and that is the 10 Kings
of the Sumerian list, which is half of the 864,
which these numbers all play together.
I wrote down a few things that were in the Old Testament
at Exodus, Moses was in the wilderness,
and 70 ancients were with him.
They received the outpouring of the Holy Spirit.
Two of them, Mildad and Midad, were back at the camp.
Then you had 72 descendants of Noah,
and then you also had the, there's,
I mean, I'm just thinking of a few things off the cusp.
There's 72 Buddhas on the temple in Indonesia,
the statues of Buddha.
And so it's like, oh wow, I mean,
there's a lot going on here, but anyway.
Ha ha ha.
So Derek.
Hey Derek, I'm looking at the text itself, you guys.
And in that passage in Luke,
it talks about the harvest three times, right?
He says the harvest is plentiful,
and then he talks about the Lord of the harvest,
sending out labors into his harvest.
So harvest is obviously a very important word.
And that phrase, his harvest,
if you look at the Gamatria of it,
the numerical value of the letters,
I talk a lot about Gamatria,
but it happens to be 72 times 23.
So it's even embedded in that passage in Luke
in some interesting ways.
Very interesting, Luther, if that is.
And that's something that is your specialty.
I love that.
This number 72 is unbelievable.
And this is just one number.
How many did we have listed?
Woo.
At four, Derek, we had four numbers.
And so, did you want to say something else about the 72,
Alan, before we transition to the next number?
Oh, well, as we saw,
so it connected to sun, earth, moon, geometry,
had musical aspects,
it had connections to weights and measures.
Now, what you'll find is that each of these numbers
has multiple layers,
which will include the saint.
The quadrillion will be repeated throughout,
but they'll also have an overlap with one another.
And this will not only be expressed in man-made measurements,
so a foot or a meter can be officially changed,
but a lot of this begins with the actual natural measurements
and the natural, so the day, the month,
and the year are natural cycles of time.
And that's, they've been observed since the ancient times.
And then since then we've created,
we've defined our own measurements,
but there are natural cycles of time,
natural cycles of distance,
the distance between the earth and the moon
isn't something that we can affect
or the distance between the earth and the sun.
So these are built into the universe.
And so if we begin, we'll come to those,
but yeah, beginning with natural cycles of time
and how these sacred numbers and measurements
connect to what cannot be changed,
what cannot be, what's not arbitrary amongst the systems,
but just like Derek mentioned before,
this is one of the numbers we'll be coming back to is 163.
And so for instance, John 10 with the 153.
Yeah, 153, but the net was not torn.
Because of its connections to alchemy,
but that's the vesica.
So what I have here is just to simplify it,
but okay, before I go into 153,
we've already completed with 174 and so this is the vesica.
And it's really, I've got a box rectangle around the outside,
but it's just two circles.
It's one circle and then the second circle
is drawn with its center on the other.
So they're balanced now.
This is the basic construction of,
you could call it sacred geometry,
but also Euclidean geometry.
Just it's one of what you've already done
is create like a 90 degree angle.
So you have like a drawing template,
but we also have math and astronomical knowledge embedded.
And this is a, one way you could think about these,
the geometry we'll talk about
is that it's universal geometry.
So whether you're on Venus or Alpha Centauri,
these rules of geometry and math
will apply to you wherever you are.
They're constants across the universe.
And so there are certain proportions built in now.
And we'll see it referred to in many ways now.
We'll to begin with, okay, so with the vesica now we have,
let's call that the arm and the mandala,
which is one of the names that religious artists
used to describe this section here.
Now, if I was to turn it sideways,
it looks like an eye or even looks like a fish.
So that's one of the connections to this portion in the center.
There's different ways and different names for it.
But the width of that almond to the height of that almond
is, well, it's exactly the square root of three.
So it's this very important piece of mathematical knowledge
that can be accessed through Pythagorean theorem.
But the best whole number approximate
of this very important number is 265 over 153.
So this is one of the connections of 153 to the net.
Now, well, for instance, I live in Sydney.
That's the capital city of my state,
the capital city of Australia is Canberra.
And the second biggest city is Melbourne.
But what you'll find is, well, it's 153 miles
from Sydney to Canberra.
And then it's 150,000 feet from Canberra to Melbourne.
And Australia is actually, that's a, you'll find,
okay, now maybe I'm jumping the gun now.
So I'll go back to,
we're talking about the Vestica and Vitruvian man.
And so that number 72, which I mentioned,
that's connected to the pentagon or the pentagram,
which is a perfect description of phi.
And so in ancient, whether it's the pyramid or the Parthenon,
what you'll have is the golden number emerging from there.
Now, that's an example of a pentagram inside a pentagon,
but has an expression of how it connects
to the golden ratio.
So this particular number,
you can't actually write down as a number.
It just goes on forever and ever.
It's one of those, you know,
incommensurate numbers as they call,
like pi, pi just runs on forever and ever.
So the golden number is very similar.
So to write it down as a number is almost impossible,
or probably is impossible.
But what you can do is draw it perfectly in geometry.
So in geometry can be represented perfectly
in the perfect way to get the golden number
or the divine proportion.
It is embedded inside the pentagram and the pentagon.
So for instance, if this grain portion is one,
then the red portion is phi.
Or if the red portion is one,
then the yellow portion is phi.
So all the, and as you break it down,
all the ratio, so that's one of the reasons
why the pentagram on pentagon is very important.
And this will also relate to that, the Truvian man.
So this golden number has an interesting aspect.
So when the baby is born,
their on phallus or their navel stone,
their belly button will be halfway up their body.
So it's at a one to one ratio, but as you grow,
and that changes into a one to five ratio
when you're fully growing your height to your navel.
And even Fibonacci numbers,
yes, such as three and five,
but you have three parts of your arm
and you have five fingers.
And so you'll often see these Fibonacci numbers
as well repeated.
And so what you have again is architecture,
mythology, geometry, and these sacred numbers
coming back to one another.
So it's a, so you say a Fibonacci.
Very quick, Alan, while we got the pentagram going on,
because you know that Satan worship, of course,
we wanna get our conspiracy guys on this thing here, right?
Anyway, the pentagram, is that in the Bible?
Is there anywhere that can kind of give an indication
that they're, and I say that
as most of our context of our audience
would be aware of the Bible, does any of this,
I know the numbers play a role,
but do you know if there's a pentagram kind of concept
somewhere in the Bible?
No, I couldn't, that's a good,
I wouldn't say the star of Solomon,
I've always heard to be at the five pointed star,
but I don't know where that's been referenced
in the biblical texts, no.
Alan, what do you think about being able
to represent something perfectly in a graphic sense,
and yet the math doesn't quite work out?
Isn't that interesting how you can draw it
and it looks perfect to the eye,
but when you try to work out the math,
it's not so neat, the numbers don't come out just right.
What does that say about the relationship
between what we can do visually
and what we're able to work out logically in terms of math?
Well, especially yes, when it comes to structures,
there's a big difference between what you can do
on a piece of paper and how you apply it in real life.
For instance, you can build a house perfectly,
you build it in spring, but in summer it's gonna expand
because of the heat and winter it will contract.
And so structures always have this living sense to,
so that's a theme, but what I think it's also
one of the brilliant features of this
is actually the margins of error
will are done in such a way in the greatest structures
that they actually contain complimentary information
if not the margin of error actually is the key
to another deeper level underneath.
Look at that, that's right, wow, that's incredible.
I mean, you know, my head is like soup by now,
this is amazing.
So this, what blows me away is that these people,
these authors of these texts were aware of all of this.
And I mean, just studying one subject in this is like, whoa,
but everything from the three parts of your arm,
you know, you get your hand and then from your wrist
to your elbow, elbow to the shoulder,
and the three and then the five.
And I mean, just knowing your entire anatomy,
knowing nature, knowing all this stuff,
you had to be, I don't know people today
who actually practice and know all of these elements together.
I'm not saying there aren't people
who are really good at doing this or doing that,
but I just don't know them, you know,
I just don't know them, Luther.
I don't know, Malin.
Oh, so well, that's one of the downsides, I think,
firstly, because our technology is so specialized,
it's before you were a biologist,
but now you'll tend to study in a certain field of biology
or, you know, before you'd sort of just become an engineer,
but now it's so often there's a specialist type
of career path, you can go in engineering
or any profession, but the same we see in the school system
where we have a specialization,
everything is broken up into strict topics.
So in math, you don't have anything to do with music.
In science, you don't have anything to do with rhetoric.
In, well, you know, every subject is separate,
and I think that's, well, this seven liberal arts
will blend with one another,
because firstly, we have the quadrivium,
which can be weighed and measured.
It's a subjective, it's a guaranteed truth,
it's a foundation for law, so whether it's trade law,
you know, business or land tax,
we have a, to begin with, we have a foundation stone
where we can all agree on a language
and we can all talk about and measure,
but those are very clear black and white areas,
but then the trivium especially deals with the gray areas.
Now, the trivium is rhetoric, logic and grammar.
Now, those are the skills which will be most valued
in the court of law, because you need to debate,
you need to make your arguments passionately,
so it's not just about the evidence,
it's also how you present the argument through your rhetoric.
The grammar, so if you're a business lawyer,
you get with the wrong apostrophe
or you miss a period in a sentence,
this can have huge effects on a business contract,
so these skills, but that's now you're dealing with law
and these are gray at morality, what's right or wrong,
these are gray areas, but it's sort of where the trivium
and the quadrivium come together,
because at least we have a basis,
you agree to pay much this much
and send this much wheat on this day at this time,
and I was gonna pay this much, it's in the contract,
here's the measures, here's the dollars,
you know, we agree on this,
and so the same was, I will look at some Bible quotes
and the importance of morality and even other cultures
that will sin or the 10 commandments,
especially the books of Lord Deuteronomy, Leviticus,
again, will have multiple references to, you know,
one of the best ways to behave and do well and not sin
is to be honest with your weights and measures,
but that's also a metaphor for your dealings with people,
because like with so much of these scriptures,
there's the literal physical aspect,
but there'll also very often be a underlying psychological
or moral aspect of these stories as well as,
and again, you can interpret these in different ways,
but when it comes to weights and measures,
it's at least a solid piece of great,
like we really know what someone's talking about
when they say the weight scale or the measuring rod,
these are very definite items.
Now, their meaning can vary,
the intensity of the metaphor can vary,
but whether it's the term such as yardstick
is still a common term for a gauge of truth,
you know, you have the expression yardstick,
well, also, you're trying to measure truth somehow,
or a square deal, as in like a builder's square,
it's still, or on the level.
Now, these are all Masonic phrases,
but they're also, but they're actually much older
because it's, you know, the house is built on the level,
he's an honest builder, you know, it's a square deal,
you know, these symbols of honest weights and measures,
and that, you know, we've built these things
on a true foundation, and that's why so much of it's...
Or even Alan being straight with someone, right?
As opposed to being crooked, it's a geometric metaphor.
Exactly.
Okay.
Alan, Alan, finish that thought
and talk about the stone the builders rejected, please,
because this is unbelievable, bro.
Okay, well, I'll go, where is the,
give me a moment, I'll just find the folder.
So amongst, well, just your construction in general,
and so I'll begin with,
so in a biblical sense, so this will be repeated in the Bible,
but this is also connected to Masonic law,
and very important in building major public buildings,
and that's grain oil and wine.
And so these are symbols of food,
of fertility, of prosperity as well,
you know, a bit of sort of luxury too,
but you'll find in, so Deuteronomy,
is it 11 fought in grain, your wine and your oil.
Now that's, there'll be Joel too, in 19.
Behold, I am sending you grain, wine and oil.
And now Maya, five, and then again,
10 sort of grain oil and wine.
So it's not, it describes physical items,
but they're also symbols of wealth, prosperity,
and also of good faith as well, you'll find now,
okay, the Levites, now a book of Numbers,
you know, wine, grain, and oil will be mentioned.
Now why it's important, so for instance,
it's the laborers who worked on Solomon's temple,
what paid their wages in grain, oil, and wine.
So this is a Masonic gift pack
that they give amongst one another,
so when you reach a certain level,
it's also, you know, the members will send it
to one another as this sort of treat.
Now you'll also see the grain, oil, and wine
ceremony in funerals, and so Eastern Orthodox especially,
will add grain, oil, and wine during there,
but it's used, again, this Masonic symbol,
and now sometimes it'll be called corn oil and wine,
but that's just another grain,
and so these are vessels they would use in the Masonic.
So this is a cornerstone ceremony,
and what you have is grain, oil, and wine
will be spilled on the cornerstone,
and that's like giving birth, you know,
one of those ceremonial features,
so in these truly sacred cathedrals,
major public buildings, these are meant to,
you wanna do the building beautifully and perfectly,
because it's gonna be at the center of your city,
and it's sort of like a message
for what you want your country to be,
so you want to do it.
Something on that note, it sounds to me,
eat of my flesh, drink of my blood,
you've got the grain, and you have the blood,
and I believe there is some oil somewhere in this story,
if I'm not wrong, please correct me here, Elizabeth.
Well, yeah, Derek, what about the Holy Spirit?
The anointing is talked about in terms of an oil, right?
I mean, that's part of it.
And they still have, for instance,
when during the coronation of Queen Elizabeth,
they only took the camera off her for a short period,
and that was during the anointing ceremony,
which you see, for some reason,
they wouldn't show that part on camera,
where she was anointed with oil,
which, again, is a common theme in biblical,
but still very important in the royal circles as well,
and even the instruments they use,
but that's a whole other long story
that we go into some time, maybe.
But just so we've, major public buildings
are still invite masons to do the cornerstone ceremony,
still around the world,
because masons are the only people who have this ritual.
So it's like, there's no other really organization
or ritual still doing it.
So they're using essentially the same principles
of feng shui as well.
We can go into that as well,
but so it's one of the reasons for masons doing it
is because no one else does these.
This is one of the functions
that masons, odd fellows, druids,
and these organizations are good at.
They've been doing this for four centuries
and connected with it.
So that's one of the reasons
for the ceremonial aspect of it.
Now, this is an example of a cornerstone ceremony.
I think it's Missouri capital,
but after 100 years, they're relaying the cornerstone,
and what you'll see there is they're measuring
and testing the stone with a square and with a level.
So with a level, you have like a small string,
a pendulum hanging to get it level,
and they also test it with the builder square.
So this is part of this procedure,
but you'll find it in all major public buildings.
It's one of the ceremonies to begin with, and now I know.
Hey, Alan, you were talking about the arrangement of things
and how masons are very careful about that.
I had an experience along those lines in a church
in which there was a meeting coming up,
and the guy who was organizing the meeting was a mason,
and he insisted on being the one
to arrange the chairs in the meeting.
So there was something going on with the chairs.
It may have been in terms of who was going to sit there,
and in terms of positioning and power relationships,
but it may have been just the arrangement
of the chairs themselves or some combination thereof.
Masons are very interesting people.
Indeed, indeed.
Now, Alan, all right, because look,
we've covered some of these numbers.
We've covered the fact that there's something,
in my opinion, you said it, you said it, I didn't say it.
The masons are the only ones who practice
this kind of cornerstone ritual,
and when I was getting in recovery
and I was staying at a person's house,
mind you, her husband is a freemason,
and he was part of the Scottish Rite,
and he was telling me that he is a firm believer
that their tradition goes all the way back into antiquity,
and that there's just been this continuity
of passing down this wisdom,
which I never put two and two together when I was there.
I'm learning this stuff now,
but either way, he's saying this stuff is not new,
this stuff comes from the Bible.
So what if we're talking about a secret society,
speaking parables, telling you sacred geometry anyway,
I'm starting to rabbit show.
What do you think about getting into the next number, Luther?
How do you, something to segue into more numbers
and patterns and showing,
there's a bigger picture going on here, man,
than what we thought.
Derek, we can get as deep as we want
on any one of these numbers,
but that's just giving the listening audience
a little taste about what it's all about.
I think it's great.
We can proceed to another number
that I'm sure everybody has questions about,
and that is, I bet you can guess what it is, anybody?
It's 144.
Yes, 144, that's it, Alan.
And so I've got some scriptures.
All right, here's Revelation chapter seven, verse four,
and then I'm going to skip to Revelation 21
and read verses 15 through 17.
I'm going to go right through, okay?
Okay, here's what it says.
It says, and I heard the number of the sealed,
144,000 sealed from every tribe of the sons of Israel,
and the one who spoke with me had a measuring rod of gold
to measure the city and its gates and walls.
The city lies four square, it's length the same as it's width,
and he measured the city with his rod, 12,000 stadia.
Its length and width and height are equal.
He also measured its wall, 144 cubits by human measurement,
which is also an angel's measurement.
Mm, tell us about that.
Well, now you've hit the nail on the head,
there are certain 144 will be,
once more, will not only join astronomy,
units of weights and measure,
music and these other themes,
but it's especially one that's very rich in ancient traditions,
and especially in the Bible, it really stands out,
and the usages of it are quite wide,
and so I'll run through some quick examples of 144,
so you have your five platonic solids,
and now the octahedron itself is 1440 degrees,
but if you add them all together,
it's 14,400 degrees,
so that defines one of the platonic solids,
but it also defines all of them together,
so this is neoplatonic, sorry, I've got a cat's screen.
Now, earlier again, I mentioned that the hexagon,
and we'll be bringing that back.
Well, earlier we showed the inside angles,
add them together, you get 720,
but now if we add the outside angles of a hexagon,
we get 1440 degrees.
Now, there are 1440 minutes per day,
so again, so the number of degrees inside of a hexagon
is 720, that's how many minutes in a 12 hour clock face,
but in the complete day, there are 1440 minutes,
so the inside of a hexagon,
in a way, defines a 12 hour clock face,
and the outside defines the 24 hour,
and links those two minutes.
Now, once again, screen resolution,
so it's in the computing, in the technical world,
they're still using these numbers
because of the proportions.
In there now, even the computer,
now, modern day monitors are at a 16 by nine ratio,
but I think at least you'll probably be old enough
like me to remember the old fashioned four by three screen.
Now, four by three, four squared is 16,
nine squared, three squared is nine,
so four by three square is 16 and nine,
and that's your 16 by nine screen resolution.
Now, this applies to the Vesica Pisces as well,
so from the old four by three to the new 16 by nine
is actually within the same general area
of sacred geometry and what an ideal proportion is
because setting up the standard of a screen
sets up all the cameras that are gonna be made,
all the TV shows, all the technology,
the factories have to set at that standard
and they'll be working from that.
And so to move from, firstly, to start with four by three
and then to move to 16 by nine,
these were no small decisions,
they would affect all sorts of aspects of our lives
even the way movies are shot now
because 16 by nine is wider.
So even where it's TV movies or old fashioned,
they had to change their, even though they framed their shots
because now it's moved from old fashioned four by three.
So the octahedron, which is connected to air,
you'll find the five platonic solids
that connect the air, earth, wind, water, fire,
and the dodecahedron connected to heaven,
but this is now same theme again,
where we'll see they'll connect to astronomy,
geometry, music and arithmetic.
Now, 1440, I've already mentioned the long foot.
Well, the sun and the moon, the sun and the moon,
both convert into the long scale at 144.
There are 1440 minutes per day.
Now, in the long scale in rods, that's 24 with five zeros,
but so at 24 hours per day, long rods,
1440 minutes per day measuring on earth,
but then both the sun and the moon.
So again, it's like a good example.
So even though the earth itself
doesn't convert to this measurement,
but the unit surrounding the earth
convert through this measurement
and will complement the other system.
So sun, earth, moon, measuring time, measuring distance.
Hey, real quick, Alan, and you're gonna continue.
I just wanna make this point.
It's like a spider web, you can't look at one thread.
It all connects, but we're looking
at one thread right now, ladies and gentlemen.
And look, we've had some talks with Alan, me and Luther.
I hate to segue, cause I'm not trying to do that.
But we are only looking at one thread
and Alan has taken us probably
through six among billions of threads
and we're like, hold on, there's more.
Hold on, there's more.
So 144 is the topic, but I'm just saying,
you can't have 144 and not have 72.
You can't have 144 and not connected,
somehow to 108, to 288, to 153, they're all connected.
So anyway, I just want our audience to be aware
that these things tie together at some place.
Excellent, thank you, Alan.
So another common theme you'll see,
firstly is the Fibonacci spiral.
And then you could also, I'll just be referring
to the Fibonacci, cause that's the most famous,
but this is what the, it's made of numbers,
but if you draw it as a geometric object
that creates this spiral.
So that's really with seashells and, and sunflowers
or all so much of nature of plant and animal
is connected to this Fibonacci spiral hurricanes,
as we saw, even spiral galaxies follow this rule
because it's a very simple rule with a Fibonacci number.
It's one plus one is two, and then one plus two is three.
Three plus five is eight.
And so it's a natural rate of growth expansion,
but it also creates these beautiful numbers now,
but okay, the 12 Fibonacci is 144 will come to that.
Hey, Alan, with a Fibonacci number,
an easy way to do it is in the series,
you take the last two numbers
and you add them to get the current number.
If you want to know what the next one is in the series,
take that number and the one before it and you add it
and you just keep on with that process.
Yeah, and what will happen is that the ramp between them
will come closer and closer to the golden number.
So 89 divided by 55 will be,
I can't remember the exact number, but it will be 1.612.
And then 55 divided by 34 will be 1.6 and the furviar developer,
but that's this golden ratio.
So it's connected there,
but where we see the Fibonacci numbers,
where we see them listed and to 144.
So the 12 Fibonacci is 144,
but 12 squared is also 144.
So we have a nice connection in that sense.
And the Bible, when it talks about the 12,000
from each tribe too,
it seems like we're dealing with calculation, man.
It's just telling you 12,000 from each tribe
and there's 12 tribes and you have your 144,000.
So I just feel like that was a good point to bring that in
because it's a huge, huge interpretive issue out there,
in my opinion, and this is really interesting.
So all these numbers are also beautiful
in arithmetic or a math sense
that they're connected to multiple dimensions.
You can do all sorts of lovely number tricks with them.
So for instance,
freed of a first plus four squared plus five cubed
equals 144.
Now for to continue that pattern
to plus six to the fourth power,
so it's the same one, just now we add six to the fourth,
we get 1440.
So this is just one example of how these numbers
will actually interact with one another on this 4D.
I'll be using the harmonic numbers now,
but that's not the only way to look at these numbers.
I think there are many, many sort of deeper ways,
but what we have here is a common theme
and we spoke about this, mentioned this before,
that there are multiple dimensions to this.
So in the literal mathematical sense,
it's very helpful to think of it in multiple dimensions,
like in a first, second, third,
because working in it, you'd understand the trade.
So when you measure something in one dimension,
you'll measure the length of a shelf,
but then you wanna know how much cover you need
to have the top of the shelf.
So you measure the length and the width,
and then you have area, which is second dimension,
then you wanna know that the television will fit into this,
so you need to do a three-dimensional,
measure the height, the width, and the depth.
And so these levels of dimensional thinking
are actually, like they apply to us in our life
and everything we buy, whether you buy a can of drink
or a bag of food, weights and measures are connected in there
and even standard sizes.
So the drink cup in a car, if one manufacturer,
they didn't, if they built cans short and stubby,
it wouldn't fit in there.
So there are all these little standards
that apply to every day,
and some of them are written down in law codes,
a lot of them, and some of them just developed
by market forces and what's popular with people, but.
No, Alan, I'm sorry.
So yeah, go ahead, go.
Well, I had the pleasure of looking at that screen
you had up, the one you just had up,
where you had 144 and 1440, which adds a zero.
And so I was looking at the pattern, as you see it,
three plus three raised to the first power,
four raised to the second, and five raised to the third.
And then that same thing, but for 1440 on that second row,
you've got six raised to the fourth.
So I tried it, I said, well, let me see.
It can't be that if I go according to that pattern,
the next would be plus seven raised to the sixth.
So I had time to do that just before the show,
and yes, it worked out.
So if you do that second row,
and you say plus seven raised to the fifth,
yes, it comes out to be what you would expect,
and it is 1440, but add a zero.
I mean, this is just magic.
It's fantastic.
Well, I never, I never expect,
I've only ever taken it to the fourth dimension
for certain reasons, but yeah, that's very, yeah.
Well, I'm very glad to hear it,
but I can't say I'm surprised either,
because that's just one of these patterns
that keep re-emerging.
And that's the, yeah, you get to a point
where I was stunned by all of it,
and it's surely it can't be true,
and you just follow through
with a relatively strict set of rules and patterns.
So a small group of measures,
a small group of proportions,
and what you'll just find is that,
and then every time, you know,
and there's never a day when something like that
won't pop up some sort of synchronicity,
or you realize that you can extend this further,
and especially the math, that is a pattern,
and nature is built on this sort of math pattern.
So however you think about it,
there is application for this to every facet
of both the natural, but also organizational systems
that we have.
Go ahead, Alan, keep going with 144,
because I've seen you, you've pulled up cathedrals,
temples, for crying out loud.
Did you write the Bible, man?
Because I'm just...
Yeah, yeah.
I've just absorbed every, you know,
every sort of source I could get my hands on,
and, you know, try to be open-minded.
In my early days, a big breakthrough
was I had a particular day where I said,
okay, I'm gonna forget everything I think I know,
and I just basically read through the encyclopedias
to get, you know, to relook at mythology and history,
and learn how to educate myself,
especially on the Greek and Roman gods,
because they were so important in studying the temples
connected to them, which lead to different units
of weights and measure.
And then you see that these Bible references
and Greco-Roman gods have direct connections
to ancient India, Egypt, Sumeria,
and it's, well, part of the system.
And so, again, you will see so weights and measures,
so ancient Roman scales, which you could essentially
the same as the Greek, but we'll see 144.
Now, I'll show their grains.
So grains, you can measure inches,
free grains is an inch, but you'll only really hear about it
now when they talk about firearms
and they're refilling a bullet.
I'll say this many grains of shot is being put in there.
So that's one of a few references
where we still hear grains as weight.
Another one will be, wouldn't they quote the gold
and silver price?
They'll quote it in the Troy ounce,
which is a slightly different ounce to the food ounce,
but a Troy ounce is 480 grains,
which is a harmonic number and connects to here as well.
But what you'll find is that they've chosen
a particular system, so ancient weights and measures
will contain number and proportions,
which is geometric and therefore has aspects
to astronomy, arithmetic, and one of the key points
is that especially coin is one of the greatest tools
of authority and power was to stamp your coin
with the king's head on it for millennia now
has been a very social, but also economic symbol as well
and the development of a coin
sort of really revolutionized trade in a lot of ways.
Now they were trading precious metals,
but the idea of a stamped coin
because it would be of a guaranteed weight
and it would be of a guaranteed size
and has developed this also has a lot to do with
systems of power now.
So just following the same theme with 144,
so I think of, but in Australia here is an interesting thing.
Our AM radio dial is set up at nine millimetre,
sorry, nine kilohertz differences.
So I noticed yours in America, not the same,
but in Australia they set it up
so that because it jumps at nine,
our AM radio, all the stations will be on important numbers.
So 1440 kilohertz or 1,530 of the frequencies
which you'll find our stations that so at least here.
Now this will also apply to FM,
but we'll get to that in 108 for instance.
And so whether it's in geometry, so hexagons,
but once more the vesica Pisces and the 240 degrees
is equal to 1440 minutes of the compass.
And then they have a nonagon.
Now a nonagon is a complicated,
technically impossible to draw compass and straight edge,
but where it's bar high, also you see nine,
nine's a very important number.
So but geometrically, the hard angle of a nonagon
is 40 degrees, which is 2,400 minutes
or 14,000 seconds of the compass.
Now that is on its own, not too much,
but then we have to consider the number 40.
So for instance, 40 days wandering in the sight,
40 years in the cyanide, Jesus 40 days in the wilderness,
and then 40 days and 40 nights of rain.
Jerusalem was ruled by King David ruled
for 40 years in total, 33 were from Jerusalem,
but 40 years in total.
So you'll often see this reference to 40,
but I won't go into that for now
because it's actually, you know,
now, so again, with the 144 sun, earth and moon,
like through time it connects through geometry.
Now it's a beautiful number in math.
Now you mentioned the fifth dimension, okay?
So Euler's conjecture about the fifth dimensional powers
and if you can add them up,
I'm not sure if you're getting the whole view there,
but so this is, this top corner of the page
is one of the shortest math papers ever written.
And it was just to show that 144 and the fifth power,
you know, you can add them up together.
So it's a special number in that way.
It's that first, second, third, fourth, and fifth,
as you pointed out, dimensional connection with 1440.
The Fibonacci numbers,
but also the 12th Fibonacci being 12 squared.
Now this is not just,
this actually applies to other Fibonacci
and triangular numbers.
So what we see, and again, won't be enough time in this,
but numbers such as 108 as we'll look at,
we'll link back to 55.
And 55 is a Fibonacci number,
but it's also a triangular number.
It's one plus two plus three, et cetera, et cetera, up to 10.
And so what you'll see is then, yeah,
the same connections that happen in all of these numbers
in that they're lovely in squares or cubes,
or that they have these third, first,
and fourth dimensional properties
and that their Fibonacci numbers,
these are the ones that reemerge,
not just in the dimensions of the buildings,
but also proportionally.
So you'll see the same Fibonacci ratios
defining the buildings, whether it's pyramids,
but staying on 144,
or so the Mayan calendar, the Bakhtun,
that's 144,000 days.
So it's one of these calendar systems of the Mayans.
Now, the Satya Yuga, that's 1,000,000,
so I won't be using the zeros,
so we can just, okay, so 1728.
Now, that's also immediately a link to New Jerusalem,
because at 12,000 by 12,000 by 12,000,
that 1728 is 12 cubed.
So the volume of New Jerusalem is 1728
with a series of zeros at the end.
Now, that will also have a link to 144,
but just to say the numbers either mentioned or implied,
because when they give a dimension of New Jerusalem,
they're implying area and volume as well.
They won't specifically say that,
but as we'll see, there's some very important connections
in New Jerusalem and the Epic of Gilgamesh,
but with the Yuga, we have the same number,
and as I said earlier, it's not just a solid border,
there's a period of entry,
then there's the main body of the Yuga,
and then an exit, and that's defined by
either 144,000 years entry and exit,
but 1,440,000 years has the main body of that.
So we see cycles of time.
Hey, Alan, Alan, the, and that's 1728,
which as you pointed out, is 12 to the third power,
12 times 12 times 12.
If you take half of that, you've got 864.
That's the exit.
And 864 is 432 and down to 216,
so we're talking about all these precessional numbers,
but if you just half it to 864,
it works with the Gamatria too,
because the numerical value of Jerusalem is 864,
so they even made the numerical values work out
to everything you're saying.
I'll try to remember, I'll put the link to the site,
I'll pull it out, but there's a movie called
Pi, Faith and Chaos, but there's one particular clip
from there, and I'll put and send you the link,
you can put in a description where in this movie,
he's approached by an Orthodox rabbi,
and they talk about numbers and how the Gamatria
connects to Fibonacci numbers especially,
and how father, mother, father, mother and child,
the Tree of Life and the Garden of Eden,
have these connections to this rather sophisticated
math in a sense, yeah.
And so we have ancient units of time
and these numbers connecting.
So the next one, this is now New Jerusalem,
so we have Revelations 2116,
where they describe New Jerusalem,
12,000 furlongs wide, long and high,
and also in seven four, where we have 144,000,
so 12 tribes and 12,000 per tribe,
giving us these numbers, so it's a,
and it's mentioned now, I haven't got a card prepared
for it, but to also think about Genesis one,
and so we have six days of creation
and on the seventh day he rested.
So six days times 24 hours is 144 hours.
So you could say for six days of work, 144 hours
and then 24 hours of rest.
Now that makes 168 hours per week.
This is another number which embodies links as well,
but so I'm not just cherry picking the six and the seven,
but they actually work together quite wonderfully
and one of these common sort of themes.
But so if you see New Jerusalem,
so just to start off with another,
they also mentioned the height of the walls
of New Jerusalem to be 144 cubits.
So you wouldn't, that's 1500 miles, each edge length.
That's exactly converts.
Now I should also say I'm using furlong here
because the King James Bible quotes it as furlong.
Older texts would say stadia,
but what happened was Queen Elizabeth first set
in the modern English units of measure that we use now.
Edmund Gunter was the mathematician,
theologian, clergyman, teacher of geometry
that set up a lot of these official standards that we use.
And so in Queen Elizabeth and Edmund Gunter set
what is a furlong or a chain
because one furlong is 660 feet.
You'll only hear about furlong usually in horse racing.
I'll say it's so many furlong to the Finnish post.
So one furlong is 660 feet
and one furlong is made of 10 chains of 66 feet.
So this Gunter's chain, but I'll be saying,
so basically my point, sorry,
is that the King James version of the Bible
varies from older ones because they mentioned furlong.
The King James Bible is written directly
after Queen Elizabeth for first.
So we also have a unit to measure
like a clear and definite unit as where the older stadia
can be confused because there are many versions
across time, but to begin,
we have New Jerusalem, the wall height is 144 cubits.
So the total edge length, so a cube has 12 sides.
You add up 12 times 12,000 furlong.
You get 144,000 furlong describes the edge length.
Now the area on each side is 12,000 by 12,000.
Therefore the area of each face is 144,
so many zeros, units squared, furlongs squared.
Now it just so happens as well that 12,000
of the modern English furlong happens to convert to 144
and a whole series of zeros in the Royal Babylonian scale
of measurement, which is the one we'll be using
to measure the Epic of Gilgamesh,
which will repeat these exact same themes.
But there will be,
now New Jerusalem itself is a massive conversion tool
that will unite multiple sets of ancient measures.
And the 144 is just one aspect to think of it about.
So I already saw geometry,
so three dimensional geometry, the octahedron.
Before you leave there real quick, Alan,
I just figured I'd tell our audience
because it's important with what you showed.
I don't want to talk about the Epic of Gilgamesh.
I want you to do that.
So I'm not trying to steal any thunder,
but the 144 cubits, you're the one who brought it
to my attention, is a cubit is a foot and a half.
We saw that at the beginning
when he started showing us the stone with the measurements.
So a foot and a half is one cubit.
So technically 144 cubits is 216 feet.
What's interesting about that,
and because we see this number nine all over the place,
I mean, you could break the number down,
one, four, four, one plus four, plus four is nine,
is you talked about Genesis.
And you said in six days there's 144 hours.
So the young earth creationists are correct in saying
these are 24 hour days.
They're just wrong in saying,
hey, this is when the earth was made, okay?
And then the old earth creationists are correct in saying,
look, this stuff scientifically is old,
but they're not so correct in saying these are ages
and not necessarily 24 hour structures.
And it's trying to base something off time and measurement.
And it tells you clearly on day four,
these are for signs, seasons, times, you know,
it's telling you what you need to know.
But anyway, I'm rambling, I just figure I'd say,
if you take nine days of time at 24 hours,
you have 216 hours.
So the 144 is six days, flip a six, you got a nine, okay?
Nine days is 216 hours.
We keep seeing 144 and 266 interchange,
and we see that with the number 666,
not trying to rabbit trail.
Everybody, I learned this from Alan.
I'm just saying.
Well, that's like you mentioned the spider webs before,
and that's what I, well, I think it's like,
wherever you are on a spider web,
you got a direct route to the core, you know,
that the spider web vibrates, everything is joined.
And it looks very complex, but it's just,
even spider webs are, some of them are designed
by a Fibonacci spiral.
So they start with a few threads,
and then they just spiral out in a Fibonacci.
So that's another aspect of it.
But what we have is that wherever you join on,
you will have a direct path to the center of it.
So whether your number is 144 or 72 or 108,
whether you look at it in an artistic sense,
whether it musically or as a design sense,
but, or as pure geometry,
this will always bring you back to here.
But I'm just focusing on these weights and measures
because this is like, you know,
it's like for a, you know, a skeptic or an eight-watts,
okay, well, here it is to be measured,
and we can find it still in the modern world,
and it will predict, you know, the new cathedral,
the new major skyscraper or the major parliament building
will always follow these patterns.
So it's not just describing the past and present.
It's a very, it's a, it seems to be,
it's always worked so far for me,
that it predicts, you know, new major infrastructure work.
So including things like the Suez and Panama Canal,
these are also international standards.
All the ships have to be designed to fit down there.
So these structures, which are also given the same measurements
and proportions that you'll find in cathedrals and temples,
because for spiritual reasons,
but also I think it's because of structural reasons as well,
that these measurements and proportions
are the ones that have worked throughout, you know,
and the buildings made of old have the right sound quality
and acoustics, but also the wall's not too long,
so that it's weak, but it's not too short,
so that the house looks stubby.
So there's even like, you can, you know,
if your house, if the roof is a little bit
two inches too low, it can really make it uncomfortable.
But if someone just lifted a fraction
or extended the wall a fraction, it can,
so this is one of the things that architects
have been arguing since the beginning of time,
is the perfect proportions of a room,
width to height to length.
And these also have, these features have to do,
yeah, so it's not just very scientific astronomy aspects,
but weights, measures, proportions,
affect everything you do.
The width of your car is, you know,
set to a standard of a road width,
but we can look at that later,
but even roads were designed at harmonic scales
to have levels of information connected in them.
We don't, but again, from the street plan
to the top of the spire of a cathedral,
there is this coherent consistent plan
revolving around these sacred numbers
and geometry, sacred proportions.
And so like in Fredo, I love that Fredo, yeah.
Hey, Alan, I love what you said about the net
and about the lattice work,
and you can find your way to the center.
It's kind of like jumping on a merry-go-round.
It doesn't matter where you get on,
you're in for one sweet ride.
That's it.
And that's what I love about this.
But I was thinking about,
this is kind of a bridge to Gilgamesh,
and I know you're gonna do that.
Like Derek said, I'm not gonna steal your thunder either.
But if you take Genesis chapter six,
and I think it's verse 14,
but it talks about the dimensions of Noah's Ark, okay?
So here we are into a flood myth.
And it gives the dimensions as 300 qubits by 50 qubits
by 30 qubits.
Now, if you multiply that together,
you get 144 times two to the fifth power.
It's interesting.
And you wouldn't think that out of those numbers,
which on the surface don't have anything to do with 144,
but they do just multiply them together.
So that's that fifth dimension
that you were talking about, right there with Noah's Ark.
So you know it's there in the Babylonian flood myth,
Gilgamesh.
Exactly, you know, yeah, it's a part,
I believe it's part of a coherent system
that's been passed on.
Now, from Greg Roman times,
we have very clear writings of it.
But what we have is physical and mythological evidence
of it going back quite some time.
And even the old kingdom Egypt
is a very mysterious still part.
The records are pretty scant.
But what we do have is the Egyptian royal qubit
from that time and the ancient soup.
We've never deciphered the Mahendzidara Indus Valley text,
but we do have their weights and measures.
And this is again, like a something you can be comfortable,
you know, you can take to the bank in that respect.
Now, look on Rosa, so 144 amongst Rosa Crucians,
they have, they believe in a music scale,
which would have 144 rock divs,
but also that there are 144 elements in their alchemy.
So this is like another example of these groups.
But, okay, so now we see Epic of Gilgamesh
and this is drawn from tablet 11.
Now, just to do a quick history on this particular one
was written about 1500 BC.
What we have is an even older description
of the Epic of Gilgamesh and the flood,
which dates to about 2500 BC.
And that describes a round boat.
So in here, we're going to see a description of a cube.
The older one describes a round boat.
And I'd like to, but the Epic of Gilgamesh
I'll be using is the 1500 BC one.
Also because at that time, I know the Royal Babylon,
I know I have a qubit that they were using,
I have a good idea in regards to it.
So in tablet 11, Epic of Gilgamesh on the fifth day,
I laid out her exterior, it was a field in area,
its walls were 10 times 12 qubits in height,
the sides of its top were equal its length.
So what we have is a cube of 120 qubits,
wide, high and long.
So just like New Jerusalem, it's based on 12.
So therefore the total edge length will come to 144
or 1440 qubits will be the total edge length.
And the area of each face would be 14,400 square qubits.
So, but now I already mentioned the Royal Babylonian scale.
So 120 qubits would be at that one and a half,
that would be 180 Royal Babylonian feet.
We can go into that,
but that will be the measure.
So 180 degrees in a triangle, for instance,
or one plus eight equal nine,
these, okay, so that, but that's just what I mean,
but it also converts in the Royal Babylonians scale.
You there, Alan, you're breaking up, brother.
I want to get in poor connection.
Down in 32. There you go, there you go, back.
At least it would be.
Hey, you're bumping in and out, brother.
You're bumping in and out.
Can you hear me?
Yeah, I can hear you.
Okay, yeah, your connection got real poor.
And one thing I wanted you to go into,
because I want you to, I definitely want you to say
what you just said we missed,
but this circle story that predates this here,
because that's fat, I mean, it popped in my mind,
I can't let it go.
From what we hear from people like Randall Carlson
and other scholars and major movers in this movement,
if you will, of the catastrophes and such,
they knew how to square a circle.
So could that be something that is going even further back,
that there's a squaring of the circle concept
of a circle boat?
I mean, a circle boat doesn't sound
like a normal boat either.
I mean, I can understand if you say like a boat
that's built like a boat,
but to say the boat is built in a circle,
I mean, it's kind of like, here, we're gonna make a ball.
And it's like, it just doesn't make sense to me,
but anyway, I'm gonna shut up.
That's cool.
Do you want me to begin just with Epic and Gilgamesh again?
Do you think you got that recorded?
We got a probably, I mean, I'd say 30 seconds
before the time that you actually heard me cut in.
Okay, so I'll begin with Epic and Gilgamesh again,
just to get the ball rolling anyway.
And so we'll mention this number one, four, four.
And so the total edge length,
which is one-dimensional measurement
of a three-dimensional object,
you could think of it that way too,
is one-four-four, but also the two-dimensional area
of the Preserver of Life.
Now, I should just mention this Preserver of Life
comes from the Epic of Gilgamesh tale,
which is where Gilgamesh goes to visit
his ancestor, Napish Tim,
who was the equivalent of Noah.
He had survived a great flood,
and he'd been just like Noah had been forewarned,
and there was a time of sin and not so good society.
And so it's very similar in regards to the Noah story,
as well, and quite a few similar.
Now, for instance, in the Epic of Oot-Napish Tim,
at the, when the rain stopped,
he released a dove, a raven, and a swallow.
As we're Noah just released a dove and a raven.
But we have, this is one of the similarities,
but well, this number 144,
also describing this Preserver of Life,
this is the Ark of Oot-Napish Tim,
but as I've got it labeled,
but the Preserver of Life is what it's called in,
in the Epic of Gilgamesh itself,
the boat to survive the flood.
And because at this 1500 BC version,
we have the actual description,
but also have a measurement.
So that's why I'll focus on those,
and that the round boat one,
it's still interesting and the descriptions
is quite clear on the dimensions of it.
But that's why I'll be focused,
but this version of the Epic of Gilgamesh
is the most intact and most complete as well.
I'll mention Rosa Crucians.
Now, so in Mahjong, there are 144 tiles.
Now these, because 144 lends itself to, it's a beautiful,
now like another thing about 144, it's 12 squared.
Now like a, that's a gross,
I think you, yeah, a gross is 12 dozen or 12 squared.
So one foot you still be using in America,
like they haven't gone metric like us,
but one square foot is 144 inches.
So that's like another aspect of 144.
And so all of these numbers will break down to nine or three,
but 12 whole thing, because it has to do with 12 inches
to begin with.
And so I can divide 12 inches into three,
and I have three, and I have, so four inches.
I can divide a 12 inch ruler into quarters,
and then I, you know, four quarters of three inches each.
Now, unlike the metric system, if you divide it into thirds,
you get 33.33333 repeater, or 66.666, you know.
So that's one of the benefits of,
now, if you look up metric versus imperial,
you'll see one of the most hateful communities
you'll find on YouTube.
There is a absolute disdain for the imperial system.
I was raised on metric, I had to learn it
because I was working with old timers,
and they spoke in feet and yards,
and I sort of had to get used to it.
I didn't like it at the time.
I was very like a metrication snob.
But what is, is that metric is beautiful for simplicity,
but imperial ancient units of measure
contain multiple sets of information.
But also once you do get used to them,
they're actually more natural.
They, you know, they lend themselves to one another
because instead of metric, you have to think of every number.
But when you start working with these numbers,
it's basically three, six, nine, and 12.
You can start thinking in a, in a different sense.
And because there's basic, like for instance,
one plus four plus four equals nine,
144 divided by nine equals 12.
So the digits that make up the number,
you add them together, you can divide that number
by those digits.
So that's one of the beauties of these numbers.
But another way, the easiest way to think about it
is the beauty of the number nine.
And if you think of your one time, nine times table,
so nine times two is 18.
One plus eight equals nine.
Nine times three is 27.
Two plus seven equals nine.
And nine times four is 36.
Three plus six equals,
whenever you multiply a number by nine,
the digits will always add up to either nine or 18 or 27.
In which case I'll break back down.
So that's one of, most of these numbers, not all of them,
but the majority of them are built around nine.
And that's part of the underlying beauty of the math
and the simplicity.
And by using, at set at that particular level,
it allows you to divide things into thirds and quarters,
but it also allows you to, you know,
that there's all lovely math tricks that come off it,
whether it's coincidental or however you wanna look at it.
But it's again, you can play little games with it,
but you can use it very seriously.
And there are different, all these different aspects to it.
So, but that's a tour of 144, I could, now, while I'm here.
So, Alan, so score one for the English system,
the Imperial system, over the metric, over the metric system.
I was intrigued to hear you say that
and talk about the benefits of that system.
Here we go back to the conspiracy angle.
Why the push for the metric system?
What is it about the English system
that we're leaving behind here?
I have some conspiratorial ideas,
I think that this is sort of a battle
that goes back over a long time,
but that's very,
unevidence is built on suspicions.
But I think that, well, I mentioned the seven liberal arts.
And so traditionally, those were the type of school
that you got an education,
you would get at a private school
or a university going back in time.
So, the official beginnings of the seven liberal arts
was with the cathedral builders.
Cathedral's were more than churches,
they were political centers
and also universities of the time.
So, the libraries would be kept there,
so you would go to study at these.
And the liberal arts was part of the system
where you were expected to be, learn these subjects.
They didn't have over 100,000 different subjects we had.
You would learn the seven liberal arts,
especially the quadrivium,
and you would be trained either as an architect
or an artist or whatever your profession was.
If you had a grasp on those particular topics,
you had a good basis to begin.
So, even what the term a Renaissance man,
it's someone who's into music and into art
and into architecture and into knowledge and science
in general, it's a concept
that you're interested in all things.
Now, we're very specialist in our way.
One of the first questions is, what do you do for a living?
Or it's not sort of,
this is a way we define ourselves very specifically.
But in this school, what you had was different.
So, before I forget, so on the topic of 144,
so you see it applied in geometry, astronomy,
arithmetic and music.
But what you'll also find is that it's a constant feature
in architecture.
Now, for instance, I'm showing here,
Armean Cathedral, one of these great cathedrals.
Now, to begin with, so the nave height is 144 Roman feet.
So, this is this older unit and we can look at that.
But before I, what I mean by that is,
now let me find the folder.
So, what we have there is Armean Cathedral,
which is 144.
And now, now that's at Romans, now just bear with it.
Now I've just lost the folder I was trying to highlight.
Just bear with me a second.
Now my computer is freezing a bit now, sorry.
So, what we have is, yeah, Armean Cathedral.
It's 144 Roman feet in height.
The nave, down now, sorry, my computer's
just working a little bit slow.
And so, the next image I'll show is Bouvet Cathedral,
which is 144, what they call medieval royal feet in height.
So, that's being two examples of 144
being an essential unit of measure in the cathedral.
And so, at these cathedrals,
they would often read from Revelations 2116
and these related texts where they mentioned 144
with the concept.
So, Armean Cathedral.
And now, if we look at Bouvet.
Okay, so there now, sorry, now I've got my cards together.
Sorry, now what we have is Bouvet at 104 medieval royal feet
in height.
We have Armean's at 144.
Now from here, we can just extend it.
So, again, back to New Jerusalem
and all those references to 144 there.
This is a very new cathedral
and its nave height is 144 modern feet.
Alan, this 144, you know, it is blowing me away
how far and how deep and how common this is
and everything around us, these numbers.
And I'm just trying to look at the text for a second,
just how the text looks in the Bible.
It, you get scorn when you look at the Bible.
You look at the Greek myths,
oh, we're good, yeah, that's mythology, yeah,
oh, absolutely, those are numbers,
those are this, this, that, yeah, it's mythology.
Or it's astrological, or it's parable,
or it's this and that.
You start talking about the Bible
and you start, that's like talking, you know, politics,
okay, it's just very touchy, don't go there,
what are you doing?
And so, just wondering, is 144,000 esoteric?
Is this something that is supposed to apply
to the temple being man?
And how that man is now, if you will,
expressing the art of what is, I guess you'd say,
divine in these numbers, by building structures
using this numerical, I guess you'd say code, if you will.
I guess you'd say code, if you will.
Well, exactly, yeah.
So again, whatever the culture,
we see the same things repeated,
but even you look at, so where was the first Old Testament
written, less the Greek version?
And that was in the Library of Alexandria,
which was the storehouse of astronomical
and engineering knowledge, for instance.
But you'll see more and more, we'll see certain numbers
and themes repeated, and the importance
of weights and measures.
And so, I think like at the end of 140,
I'll just finish off this 144 section.
I think we could look at some of the classic symbols
and origins and quotes of weights and measures
and these morality connections in the Bible
and these ancient texts.
And so, like a first Christian church,
again, new style, it's 140.
So what you're saying is the same in all sorts of churches
and now, okay, this will connect to Solomon's Temple.
So what they have is three levels
and each one converts to 30 events, 60 royal
or medieval royal feet.
So to reflect the levels at Solomon's Temple.
So that's often like the descriptions
of exactly what that is though.
Now that's, well, 140, now that 144 medieval royal feet,
I'll mention the cave of Doric and the Ionic earlier.
So while these images are up,
but this concept of units of measure harmonizing.
So at the Parthenon, the columns themselves
are including the architrave.
So if you follow that line, you know, where the rooftop,
that's where you measure the height of the columns.
But that's 48 English feet, you know, emerging,
you know, 2000 years before that was officially set.
And that converts to 45 Doric and 50 Ionic.
So you had these different engineering teams,
Masons all coming together on this grand site
to work together.
So one practical aspect is that every team
was working with a whole number.
Someone wasn't left off, you know, in his unit,
you know, at point zero one or something, you know,
so that's one very practical aspect.
But what you'll find is also these numbers will convert
to all the harmonic series as well.
And you have these, these are actually musical proportions
because you can simplify 48 to 25 to 16 to 15 ratios
and 10 to nine ratio, so musical ratios are in.
Now even Doric and Ionic are also musical modes.
So there's different ways of tuning,
but there's Dorian and Ionian.
There are also systems of measuring length,
but also of measuring music.
And so now while I'm sort of on that topic,
I think like what we have there is a Mason's board
and this has, this is a quick example
because you have the finished zone of a dress stone
but also the stone, the builders rejected.
So that's like one of these themes.
Now, whether it's the level or the compass,
the ruler and compass, the tiles, you know, and the chisel.
So these are like the stone mason's art,
but you also see tools of geometry
and tools of measurement, even music in the bell,
but the square, the level, the ruler,
the compasses are all tools of measure
and essential tools in the building trade and masonry.
You also see the three columns.
So that's the Doric.
Now it's partially obscured under there,
but that's the Ionic column.
And then we have the Corinthian column.
So these are the three columns.
Now, if you begin with the Ionic,
that's the column of the woman or the column of wisdom.
And that's that column that has those swirls at the end.
Now they're said to represent the simple beauty
of a woman's hairstyle, as opposed to,
but that's just a, so this is.
Something about the women though,
just to just touch in on this women being wisdom.
This thing goes way back.
You opened up a can of worms, bro,
because Margaret Barker, who's a scholar in this field,
connects wisdom and women all the way back in antiquity.
Even, I mean, we're talking, her opinion is the Bible
is actually originally done by polytheistic people
who had a divine mother or divine woman deity.
And this wisdom, dude, the Bible's clearly indicating to me
a hermetic or a Masonic type of language here
with what you're talking about.
And the woman is somehow connected to this be,
we got to write that down
because there's something going on.
So, yeah, well, even the, I don't, firstly, just let me say,
I'm not an insider, I'm not in one of these,
you know, I've observed everything
from outside these organizations,
but odd fellows, druids and Masons,
you'll see that to have a lot of their rituals
are built around moral tales from the Bible,
but even some of the oldest strains of Masonry
have moral tales built around Greek gods,
but in most of those initiation rites in Masonry,
as far as I can tell from an outsider,
but a lot of them have to do with moral tales as well.
And these are moral journey as well along the way.
And so there's this connection between that, okay,
so music and, okay, now.
Hey, Alan, Alan, let me ask you, okay, if we were,
let's go back to Nassim Harriman,
a theoretical physicist who taught us anew
that man is the measure of all things.
He's what lies between the infinitely large
and the infinitely small.
Okay, we see these huge structures reflecting 144.
Now let's take a break and go in the opposite direction.
Do we find things measuring 144 microns
or 144 nanometers or something
that is an extremely small measure?
Does 144 still show up there?
Well, you could say like human hair varies,
but at its widest, it's, I'm not sure if it's 0.014,
it's very close to that.
So you could say there are those,
but I think it's a bit like the point I said,
if you measure enough things,
you'll find, because everything has a variation in it,
so if you measure enough,
you'll be bound to find these numbers,
but there are certain,
so 144 is a Fibonacci number,
but you'll also see the Fibonacci series built into DNA.
So Fibonacci numbers 13 and 21 define the DNA spiral.
So even if a particular number is not present in a structure
or a number of that will be very complimentary
and associated with it,
from emerging from the same,
whether it's Fibonacci numbers or harmonic numbers,
you'll see that there is like a,
out of the infinite sea of numbers,
there's a very small cup from which these are drawn from
and they're the ones that are repeated.
So I mentioned, if I could do a show,
this is one of the sculptures, a fountain here in Sydney,
and it's an interesting sculpture,
but this particular piece,
what we see is the Kundalini or two snakes
connected to the rod.
So the Caduceus, there's different names for it,
but I'll be calling it the Caduceus of Hermes,
but that's the symbol of Hermes or Mercury.
Now you also, so this statue is labeled commerce
and it's shown as a female,
but this is actually one example
of this weights and measures knowledge
and the legends connected to them.
So it'll be like an intro,
how this particular sculpture connects
because weights and measures is a foundation of science.
It's connected with Hermes,
but it's also a foundation of commerce,
which is why Hermes, the guide of number
and geometry, et cetera,
he's also connected with navigation and commerce as well.
Okay, that's just an olive branch.
We'll be coming back
because this theme of the olive branch is an important one
and the olive branch with 13 leaves,
which it will be referred to as well,
but so this is what is the illustration,
it's one of the classical stories of Greek myth
is when young Hermes stole the cattle of Apollo
and it almost led to war on Olympus.
But okay, so Epic of Gilgamesh's ancient references
to specific weights and measures,
we'll come back to this one,
but also in tablet 11,
he describes how much bitumen oil
and was broad on board and you'll see,
so it's three times 3,600 units.
So that's 10,800 units, 10,
so this number 108,
this is like another example of,
so where these numbers will be repeated,
but this is a statue from China
and what you'll find is even now in China,
which you wouldn't assume to have a lot of these,
let's just call it sort of Masonic Greek mythology.
What we have is the golden boy writing the flying bull
and this is actually a nice little symbol back to Apollo
and Hermes will come to that,
but let's, for instance, in the Bible,
I wanna bring up the concept of weights and measures,
especially in the books of Law,
so Zachariah 2,1,
and I lifted my eyes and saw,
and behold, a man with a measuring line in his hand.
So that's like one, there's lots of revelations again.
Was that a 11,1?
Yeah, so then I was giving a measuring rod as a staff
and then you have a holy, now 42 months as well,
that's another number,
but also you have a 1,260,
one plus two plus six equals nine.
So you already have one of those Hashad numbers
sort of mentioned in there,
so there will be aspects that join.
Real quick, Alan, while we're here in Revelation 11,
do you think that's talking about an actual,
the actual temple that was said to have existed,
or do you think this is something of a general rule of thumb
or something of esoteric, Masonic type teaching?
Because, you know, we're trying to pin it down.
I mean, it just seems so coincidental
that the Bible's temples, first and second,
were both destroyed on the 9th of Ab.
So, you know, it's too many questions, of course I have,
but what do you think this is,
do you think he's really,
someone's actually measuring a temple
or do you think this is something else
like teaching you measurements?
Well, a series of both,
because even just an actual temple,
you'll find that everyone has a certain,
you know, you could go back to ancient Egypt,
they had a ceremony called Stretching the Cord,
where they would hold two stakes and stretch a loop of rope
around them to form the main axis of the temple.
In the Vastashastru, this ancient Indian architecture technique
goes back maybe 6,000,
but so when they design an Indian temple,
they incorporate all different,
so the arrangement of it is one of the most important steps,
and I'll even try and start building on a certain day
that might be astronaut, you know, auspicious day as well,
but you can't build an accurate temple
if you don't have an accurate ground plan,
so that's, you know, and that's one of these concepts,
you know, it's like measure twice, cut once,
you know, you might be familiar, you know,
so if you start with a solid foundation
and accurate foundation,
then the building itself will emerge in perfect proportion,
so to say, or at least as close to your intention,
but that's, yeah, one of these rules of the cornerstone
or the foundation stone as well,
that's those cornerstone ceremonies,
and even Jesus will be the cornerstone,
or sorry, it might be, yeah,
but the cornerstone is mentioned a lot in the Bible
and connected with the plumb line,
but it's also, so the plumb line measures accuracy up and down,
you know, you can hold up, get the,
is a wall straight by holding up a string against it,
and a cornerstone is that from that rock,
the rest of your house will be built,
so the quality of a cornerstone is gonna dictate
and the foundation will dictate the quality of your house,
so again, it's a metaphor,
so whether you're using, you know, a straight deal,
but also a cornerstone is, you know,
we've built this on a solid foundation, you know, this,
so we have Masonic, as in, when I say Masonic,
I mean in stone, Mason and construction,
that there are similar morality and ethics
connected to the, you know, the concept of building,
you want an honest builder who builds a good foundation,
and these are terms which connect to even the way
we live our lives, and, you know,
that's why Yardstick built on a strong foundation,
on a square deal, or, you know, it's a fair deal,
these are all morality connected with building as well,
as you build a relationship as much as you build a house,
and so these metaphors work pretty well with one another,
so like Ezekiel, you'll be another example
of where you have references to measuring lines,
or et cetera, now you'll also have,
okay, so I think that's Leviticus 2019,
that you shall do no wrong in judgment,
in measures of length, or weight, or of quantity,
you shall have just balances, just weights,
and a just epaph, and a just hin,
and I am the Lord your God who brought you out
of a land of Egypt, and you shall observe
all my statutes and ordinances, and do them,
I am the Lord, but again, I have equal,
I have honest weights and measures,
the, my measuring tool is honest,
and I'm dealing with people honestly,
and length, and weight, measures, and quantity,
so it's a aspect of honesty and weights and measures,
so proverbs, a fair balance, sorry, a false balance
is an abomination to the Lord,
but a just weight is His delight,
so again, references, this is just some more proverbs,
2010, and diverse weights and diverse measures
are both alike, an abomination to the Lord,
so diverse, you know, you don't have multiple measures,
you have one set of honest measures,
now you're fine and similar, like Deuteronomy 25, 13,
I shall not have two kinds of weights,
of small and large weights, again,
I have equal, honest weights,
I'll use honest weights and measures
in my dealings with people,
and that this will please the Lord,
so, and of course, revelation,
with the New Jerusalem describing the measurement of thing,
you know, that's, now for instance,
this is firstly horned Moses pictures,
it won't go, but the measuring rod,
so even the rod that Moses carried,
the word rod translates to read,
translates to wand in ancient Greek,
so a magic wand, and the wizards carried the wand,
and the kings carried the staff,
these were standard eye sets of, you know,
this is the yard, this is the smaller,
the battens that those, now that's it,
that's like a symbol of my authority,
but even like the measuring rod or yard stick
as a phrase of honesty, now magic wands,
you know, that would be a depiction,
sort of, most people would associate with them,
but that's an example, so that's the Caduceus,
so this is a GTO building in Sydney,
but wherever you go, you'll see this symbol everywhere
on art, but also on these art, the lovely old buildings,
so you have these two snakes about the rod,
that's the Caduceus or the symbol of Mercury or Hermes,
that's the same building, just another example
with Caduceus and the winged horns, like linking Mercury.
So Alan, Alan, when Paul writes in his epistle
that he's a wise master builder, and he uses that term,
and I can't wait, based on this discussion,
to take a look at the Gamatria of that first,
what do you think he's talking about?
Well, I think that's, as I described,
so Masons are no longer stone Masons,
they don't build the way that they used to,
and they say that Masons now are trying
to firstly build better men, but they're also working,
it's exactly what it is, I know this will be contentious,
but the great work, and so the great work,
all the elements of construction,
but also building a perfect building would also,
in a sense, go to deal with building a perfect society,
and so that's why, I mean, the Bible, I believe,
has scientific knowledge, but just like
with the Seven Liberal Arts, there's an element
of the quadrivium in there, but it's also mixed
with a trivium, because you have books of law
and morality, which is very different,
depending on what era and what part of the world
you live in at the time, but there tends
to be this sort of thread of, so it's what,
if I can, there are some things I can measure,
that's great, I can prove and test these things,
but so much of our life is built around
much more nuanced, I had a side discussion
with Derek about this, now I can measure
how long a foot is, I can measure the length of this boat,
I can measure this, but I can measure
the electromagnetic force, these are all things
I can measure, but the power of love, for instance,
is one of the most powerful drivers in our society,
now it's the impossible thing to measure,
but it's a force as important as electromagnetism
affecting the way our society works, now these,
but that's something I cannot measure,
so this will go underneath the trivium,
where how do you argue before a judge
in a legal sense, what is love?
These are, you know, it's an airy question,
but it's also in a legal sense, tell me what it is,
because if you are, do I love someone?
Well, what does love mean to you?
Now the word God can have the same applications,
now if someone asks me, do you believe in God,
and my real question would be, will you tell me what God is,
and I'll tell you if that's what I agree with,
because if you just say I believe in God,
that will, people automatically assume you believe,
literally in a holy book, one of the choices,
but it's a much more nuanced question,
and what is God, that would be a question to,
and it's one of those impossible to define things in life.
That picture you have right there with this,
what looks to be a cherub, or some small cherub,
okay, it's got the two snakes, and then it's got the wand,
is this what we're seeing with Moses,
lifting up the staff, or the wand with the snake,
in the wilderness?
I believe so, yeah, so what you have is the brazen serpent,
which is one snake, around now, so what you have is there,
this is the two snake version, but there's another,
so you often see it on the side of paramedics,
even if I'll have the two snakes,
but sometimes I'll have the one.
Now, one snake about the rod is the son of Apollo,
Asclepius, who's the god of healing.
So, strictly speaking, the symbol of healing
is a rod with a single snake, around it,
just like a fecius, the constellation,
but also Moses and the brazen serpent,
but that's the rod of Asclepius,
but the two version here, that's of Hermit,
which is just science in general, so it's,
so that's like baby Hermes,
he has the travelers cap on and the wings on his brow,
but that's just one more example of this, okay,
so this is in Sydney, so what you also find is that,
these tails, if you travel around Sydney,
the major fountains in the major parks,
and the major public memorials carry on us,
so at the top of this particular fountain,
you see Apollo carrying Valir,
so that's just like the constellation Lira,
but this is an important story,
because it connects Hermes and Apollo,
and where does the caduceus and the wand come from?
Okay, there's just an example of a vesica in stained glass,
but that's not for the moment,
so if I go back to that lady commerce,
as in Hermes or Mercury, it's a god of commerce,
what she has is the rod,
but you'll see she's also holding in her hand a metal bar,
and this is a theme that represents weight and measure,
so the rod to measure length, and the rod has a standard,
now sometimes it'll be a bag of coins or a bag of gold dust,
but this case it's a metal bar,
now you'll see this theme, so yeah, weight and measure,
she's, now Hermes can also be depicted as a female
in some cases, but that's a,
now this is an older piece in Macurius or Hermes,
again with the rod, and you'll also see him
holding something in his hand,
that's like the, cause he's the symbol of weights and measure,
now he was also special, cause in Greek legend,
he was the only god who could travel back and forth
between the underworld, so which is a sort of be,
in Egypt we'll see that sort of same theme again,
now this is a Greek god, Hermenubis,
and all they've done is fuse Hermes,
we always got the carrying the bag of weights
and the rod of measurement,
and they've just given him the dog's jackal head
of Anubis, so it's Hermes and Anubis,
that's an example of that syncretism,
as we were talking about, Derek with Serapis
and these other ancient gods that got fused up together.
Now in the, for instance, in the Egyptian book of Aded,
when you travel into the afterlife,
that one of the last stages is to,
you have your heart measured against a feather of truth
to tell how many lies you've told in your life,
now we see the scales and our foe,
the guide of measure, he writes down the results
and he calculates your lies against,
the lies in your heart versus a feather of truth,
but we'll also see a plum, bob, scale,
so the book of Aded, and especially spell 125,
reflects the, it's pretty much the Ten Commandments
are in there and included in spell 25,
the book of Aded is, I have not reduced the measuring,
now before I begin, the book of Aded,
connections to the books of law,
in the Egyptian book of Aded,
because you're going into the underworld,
you say, I have not done this,
as we're in the Ten Commandments
and the Bible, you'll say, I will not do,
but in this sort of measures,
I have not reduced the measuring vessel,
I have not reduced the, let's see that a bit,
of a measuring cord,
I have not encroached on the fields,
I've not added to the pan of the scales,
I've not tampered with the plum, bob of the scales,
so that's what that guy is,
is a block of plum, bob on the scale,
and there we see, so he's adjusting the scale,
it's like one of those, yeah,
to double check the accuracy of the pet,
but, and I've not taken milk from the mouth of babes,
so this is, again, this,
you've probably heard that expression,
taking milk from,
now these are from the about morality
and how to do well and deal well in your life,
and this is very much copying the biblical texts,
and because weights and measures,
whether it's a government,
or whether it's you dealing with your local neighbors,
that you have standards and you keep those standards,
is one of the most fundamental ways
of having a peaceful society,
it's not the only way,
there's a lot more to it, of course,
but with honest weights and measures,
you have a basis for tax, commerce,
everything to do,
and you wanna buy some grain,
you wanna buy some wool,
you wanna buy something that you have a basic standard
and that would apply to,
so Egyptians didn't have coins,
but they were using copper and other precious metals
and weighing them out to a certain standard,
and so they're able to have a price,
so weights and measures connecting back to these things,
that's okay, so now in ancient China,
so Fof or Shesit in ancient Egypt,
they taught the people geometry,
they taught them how to read and write,
but they also have the double snake,
so this is Nuwa and Fuzi and in ancient China,
they're sort of like the creator of the gods of science,
they taught people how to read and write
and introduce civilization, taught them how to fish and hunt,
and they carry the compass and the square,
and they have, again, these two intertwining snakes as well,
so just like that, Caduceus,
hunting, riding, fishing, domesticating animals,
so even you see Fof,
now I've just photoshopped an eyeman's head in there,
but what you have is him carrying two rods
with the crown of upper and lower Egypt,
so he has the weights and measures,
you know, measuring rod, uniting certainly two snakes,
but it's also a symbol of uniting upper and lower Egypt
together under the pharaoh.
Alan, your research inspires these big questions,
I think you know that by now,
on the part of Derek and myself.
When you, how do I say this?
Human beings are characterized by different weights
and measures, different numbers,
we're born on different birthdays,
under different circumstances,
we weigh a different amount,
we are different heights, for example, right?
Yep.
And yet, we are challenged that when we come together,
we see these rules in sacred texts about,
no, your weight and measure has to be consistent,
it's gotta be the same,
is that some way of the cosmos,
I don't wanna say correcting for,
but somehow creating some basis,
whereby we can relate to one another,
knowing that we bring different numbers to the table,
and yet we are encouraged through the sacred texts
to agree on what those numbers should be.
What about that?
Well, I think, yes, it's about going to philosophical,
I think that's an important,
so the concept of truth and honesty and dealing,
that would be one legal aspect,
very much like language,
if we all have a common language and common words,
we feel comfortable with one another,
and a stranger becomes a friend very quickly,
because we haven't agreed,
and these are the things we all share.
Now, if someone enjoys a hamburger,
and knows what Coca-Cola is,
you've already got a lot of connections,
similarities between one another,
so we Australians and you Americans,
we share English and we share certain foods as well,
so immediately we've got a halfway to a bond
of dealing well with one another,
but I think the importance of weights and measures
is that these are universally accepted, guaranteed truths,
like a foundation, if everything else we disagree on,
a foot is a foot, an ounce an ounce,
and a pound is a pound, and a dollar is a dollar,
because this would also come into,
because it's incorporated in the same general area,
but that's the difference between the quadrivium
and the trivium, the quadrivium is beautiful,
because it's very simple, it's black and white
in many ways, it just follows a clear path,
and so you can follow that,
but in real life, just so on a piece of paper,
I can design the perfect building,
but making that building in real life is more difficult,
in summer it's cold and it's gonna change,
sorry, in summer and winter,
the cold and the heat will change its size,
so what's on the paper will never actually be reflected
to the atom accurately, you know,
it's always a margin of error built into the real world,
now you can do perfect maths on paper,
but it's applying that in the real world,
is a different set of discipline as well,
and levels of understanding, but as a-
That's a serious level of discipline,
I mean, I can't, I'm still like in kindergarten, okay,
I'm sitting here listening to you and I'm going,
okay, just imagining people capable of this is like,
it's just so funny, but it's like the people
who sit there and say that the pyramids
are built by aliens, okay, it's like,
well, they're so higher intellectually
and capable of disciplining themselves to this extreme,
we might as well call them aliens,
because these guys are like brilliant,
and then they incorporate it into all this science,
this is crazy, maybe our education setup
is just not right, or, I mean,
I just don't know what to think with all of this, man,
I don't know, but look, we've gone just to give you guys
an idea, we've gone two hours and 40 minutes,
let's wrap this up at the three hour mark,
so that means we've got, I'd say 15 minutes to wrap up
and come up to conclusions and then we can,
we'll close, have our closing statements
and we will definitely have another one of these,
because guys, we only went through two major numbers,
72 and 144 and all they are is just split one of 44 and half,
we barely touched anything else
and this stretched us this far,
so I'm gonna go ahead and silence
and let you roll on either Luther or Alan.
All right, anything to say, Luther?
Alan, you know we had a series of numbers
that we wanted to cover and Derek,
we did touch on 153 guys, we didn't go into it in depth,
but we said a little bit of it in connection
with the Bessica Pisces and the fish theme,
so okay, I feel like we've covered some of the numbers
that are on people's minds
who may be familiar with the Bible, okay?
But there are also numbers that don't come to mind
that are found in the pages of the text,
such as this last one,
maybe you could touch upon 273, Alan,
because that's an example of one that is not familiar to me,
certainly you introduced me to the importance of that number.
I was trying to think now, what is that number,
what is that a measure of and I couldn't think of it,
so maybe if you could give that as a final example
of the kind of number that we encounter in the Bible,
yet it's not common and one that we're ordinarily familiar with.
Be careful, Alan, because 273 with you is a five-hour show,
so.
Okay, well, just again, just a bit slow at the moment,
but I'll show like a pentagon
and the hexagram and how 153, 273 sort of begin with one another,
and just let me get that.
Well, Alan, while you're doing that,
let me read briefly the biblical passage
that talks about 273.
Just to show you, this is embedded everywhere.
It's in the book of Numbers chapter three
and verses 46 and 47, and this is what it says,
boy, these verses aren't so innocent anymore,
not with you around, Alan.
So it says, and as the redemption price
for the 273 of the firstborn of the people of Israel
over and above the number of male Levites,
you shall take five shekels per head,
you shall take them according to the shekel of the sanctuary,
the shekel of 20 Geras.
Now, those are different measures,
but what we were getting at is that 273,
and it's given there in the text
as a number in excess of the Levites.
Did we catch that?
Okay, go, Alan.
And I want to just quickly add that the phrase stone
the builders rejected as well as several other key phrases
that appear in this Masonic tradition in Hebrew
has a gamatria of 273.
But so, well, geometry, we'll look at the pentagon,
but how these come back to weights and measures.
So the angles and sun, earth, and moon as themes,
these esoteric artworks,
so I could bring up countless others,
but so the Mason's board again,
where we have the sun, the earth, the moon, and the stars
being themes amongst others.
You might also notice the arc,
which the flood story was also a standard theme
and the beta, but okay, I should.
So let's just break down,
the numbers we already mentioned, 72 and 144,
but we can express them in so many different ways,
and one way to look at it is through a pentagram.
So the five points of a pentagram
will break up to 360 degrees.
That's 72, 144, 216, 288, and zero, or 360 degrees.
So what you'll find is that these same numbers
will appear in multiple forms in a complimentary way,
and so to begin with those numbers,
each of them, so three plus six is nine,
seven plus two is nine, one plus four plus four is nine.
So they're all HaShad numbers,
and with the exception of 288,
which is still a HaShad number,
but because that adds up to 18,
and then 18 adds up to nine.
So it's still a nine number,
but you can divide 288 by 18,
so therefore it's what's called a HaShad number
in recreational number theory.
Now, also, so we'll be looking the hexagon and the pentagon.
This goes back to, as you mentioned,
the macro and the micro.
So they often say that the macro is the hexagon,
represented by six, and the micro is represented by five.
So everything bigger than man is macro,
everything smaller than man is micro,
and so one of you mentioned it earlier,
I think it was Derek,
but the connection between 144 and 1728
has a reference to man is an important one,
but in regards to macro and micro,
that man is the difference between small and big
is regulated by the size of man.
But so to draw a hexagon,
that's what's called the seed of life,
and it's just by drawing a series of circles
built from the Vessica Pisces.
So you just draw one circle,
you draw another circle on the edge,
and you just draw wherever they intersect,
creates a perfect hexagon.
It's one of these beautiful laws in geometry.
It's YB hives, and all these other structures
are arranged in that because it's just the most efficient,
best way to build a structure and to build walls.
And so you can overlay that onto the compass
and the pentagram.
Now, I should also say, so what you have is six points.
It's divided the circle into six
in that flower arrangement in the center.
It'll also see that each time these circles overlap,
that cuts at angle in half.
So by drawing this design,
you've created a hexagon,
but you've also divided the circle up into units of 12,
which is how you can draw a clock.
And this is an important,
to divide the circle up into 12 is in 12 feet per inches,
emerges from this geometry.
That's basically the star of David pattern.
I think it'll be a bit more clearer than others,
but I'll be coming back.
So now I'll be showing how the pentagon
then will lead to 33, 153 and two.
So 273, the Vilevites and then 153 fish in the net
and 33 years of Jerusalem being ruled by David
and Jesus being 33 as well.
So these are, these also apply to other cultures too,
but we'll just be using that framework.
But we can, those first numbers were Hashart,
so they divided by nine.
Now this does not happen for 33
and it does not happen for 273,
but it does happen for 153.
One plus five plus three equals nine,
153 divided by nine is 17.
It's also as I, I'll try,
it's a narcissistic number in that,
in the third dimension,
one plus five plus three to the third power equals 153.
And this is a number that just,
that all oven numbers will,
if you use that same pattern,
51, 153 is a consistent.
So we have these angles.
Now, okay, this is Claude Bragdon.
He's a very famous, not so least in the esoteric world.
He's a famous architect and contributor
to philosophical magazines,
but his phrase about mathematics is a handwriting
on the human consciousness of a very spirit of life.
In his works, he talks about the second dimension
as in a square, third dimension as in a cube,
and then the fourth dimension, the tesseract,
which is sort of a common theme in Marvel movies,
but so we have those,
and I'll just skip through them,
try and get to the juiciest parts, okay?
So that number 153,
it's one plus five plus three is nine,
and then 153 divided by nine is 17.
So you have a link also to this number 17.
Now, in triangular numbers,
you can just, you know, one plus two,
then one plus two plus three, et cetera.
You follow the pattern,
well, if you add up one through to 17,
you get 153.
So just as it divides by nine,
it's also, that would be one example.
Now, in that same pattern,
if you multiply the triangular numbers,
we add the first five together and you get 153.
So again, it's,
it's very in triangular numbers you add.
Now, if you multiply those numbers
and then add to some total together,
you'll see you'll have 153,
emerging.
Now, in your common drawing tool,
now the drawing tools we were given at school,
so the set squares, those triangular rulers,
they actually are loaded with some of the most important,
that's not just some random angle,
they're actually very full of information.
And so the set square that you have
is actually at the square root of,
well, what I mean by that is that four of your set squares,
together to make a rhombus,
will make the rhombus inside the vesica Pisces.
And it also includes that square root of three
and we'll link to that number one,
because the best whole number approximate
of a square root of three is 265
over 153 and there's more aspects to that,
but I'll just, as an intro,
so triangular numbers now,
also can see it's at a number 30,
three is I guess interesting properties now.
Okay, just try and skip a few of these,
because all these numbers reduce down to 153
in one form or another,
if you just follow the same pattern,
you could pause the screen and look if you're a math nerd,
but now here's an interesting one is-
Okay, Alan, since those numbers reduce into 153,
one could say that 153 is a net, so to speak,
that draws those numbers into it.
John chapter 21 in the Bible, okay?
Yes, yes.
Okay, just wanted to point out,
I was seeing that among,
I'm seeing so many things that you're saying,
okay.
Now I'll try and get to the chunkiest parts,
and so as we go around now,
for instance, you get to the number 216,
so one cube times two cube times three cubed
is equal to 216,
or six times six times six is equal to 216,
but this, again, one of these defining numbers,
so what you have is these,
now 306, so 36, that's six squared,
so six times six is 36,
six times six times six is 216,
so these numbers have that relationship,
but if you look at 36 and how it operates in dimension,
so one squared times two squared times three squared
is 36, one cubed plus two cubed plus three cubed equals 36,
and so this relates to the magic number.
So one of the really beautiful things
that makes number six the most perfect of perfect numbers
is that one plus two plus three equals six,
one times two times three equals six,
so it's isolated in these perfect numbers,
it's isolated in that sense,
and so either six cubed or six squared
have nice margins now, okay,
so I mentioned earlier with that 144
and how in the dimensions it expands,
now what you also have is 144 times two,
which is one of these pentagon angles, 288,
this is a very important number,
it's very little attention,
but I think it's actually one of the most important,
and now this has,
it is the most beautiful number in four dimensions,
and by that I mean a few times one to the fourth
times two to the third, or that's eight,
times three squared times four to the first,
and it equals 288,
now if you go down the opposite direction
and you add one to the first plus two to the second
plus three to the third plus four to the fourth,
you also get 288, so in this sort of,
so if you can see, now just as an example,
that's probably the best way to,
so you see how these numbers one, two, three, four
also have a power, one, two, three, four, three, two, one,
and how in four, up to the fourth power
across four operations, it's 288 is one of the king numbers.
Alan, that's not possible,
so 288 is the result, both ascending in power
and descending, sounds like Jacob's ladder,
sounds like angels ascending and descending,
that's just amazing, is there any other number
that works like that besides 288?
Not, there are some that are close, but no,
but as far as I know, there might be some
on a big spreadsheet on some computer somewhere,
but at least there's a big, now the importance
of that number 288, you'll see it in structures everywhere,
but the first example would be the US capital building
is 288 feet high, and also the Mormon temple
in Washington is 288 feet high.
And so you'll see this, so these numbers would be,
so the standard numbers, whether it's 72, 144, or 288,
you'll see them as the basic units of the width
for the height or the length
of major public buildings and cathedrals,
so this is like an easy way to identify a building
which, so if it's 72 feet high,
you instantly have a whole set of complimentary numbers
across complimentary units of measurement,
bringing together this system, and that's,
like I said, you can, within this small group,
you pick which one is most pleasing to you,
or just randomly choose, and you'll find that it will
repeat the pattern and follow through
and have the same information regarding the quadrivium,
especially, that's what you can be certain of.
Guys, I am blown away.
I think this is a good, we haven't even gotten to 273,
and we don't have time to, because nobody's gonna sit
through and watch four hours in a row of numbers,
and don't get me wrong, this stuff is unbelievable.
We need to leave some room to get into these numbers,
Luther, and these images, we can go into these same images
and just go deeper, because I know Alan will.
I really wanna wrap these things up,
because we need to cut this off
before we hit the three hour mark.
Do you have any remarks you wanna touch on, Luther,
before we get to how do people get ahold of Alan,
how do they support his work, what he's doing,
maybe touch on some of that,
or whatever you wanna talk about?
Well, just in passing, what comes to my mind
is why haven't we learned this?
What is it about our system of learning,
both personally and institutionally,
where we lack this, Alan?
And I think you have pointed up these areas
that are woefully deficient,
and so we thank you for indicating that,
and for coming on board with us,
and sharing your knowledge, sharing your insights.
We can't wait to have you again,
and you have shown us, if nothing else,
that sacred texts are worth contemplating
in different ways, in different dimensions.
And you've demonstrated that so successfully.
We can't wait to have you back.
That's all I have to say.
Oh, thank you very much.
I was expecting, yeah, the amount of time
is so much information in regards to this,
so it depends what angle you wanna go on,
but now it's been great having this talk.
Thank you for inviting me.
Oh, we've-
Our pleasure.
We're gonna be having a lot more with you, man.
Because this right here,
you can't, I mean, you just don't find this.
This isn't something that you're going to just go
open a book, and I find it.
You gotta dig, and even if you find one book,
you just don't cover everything
that you're covering here in one book,
so something very important,
I think people need to understand.
And the reason why I find it so important,
because I'm beginning to be interpretive
in understanding of the biblical text,
it's a focal point in my research
is to understanding and opening up the consciousness
and letting people see this is not only the Bible.
This is much bigger, much bigger than just that book.
This is all humanity,
and this is unifying, in my opinion.
So, ladies and gentlemen,
just how do they get ahold of you,
and where do they go to support you,
and give us some ways that they can see your work?
Well, primarily on YouTube,
so we sacred geometry decoded,
I'll link attached in the description,
so that's pretty much the main way to go on.
I don't really have much of a social media presence,
I might be changing that in the future.
I've started the steps, so I've got a Facebook,
and if you stay subscribed to the channel,
stay tuned, I'll start adding as they come on,
any contact links,
but of a comment section in YouTube,
would probably, if you have questions,
I'm happy to answer those in relation
to any particular questions,
but also if there's somewhere you wanna go,
I've got like nearly 1,000 videos up,
so, or something like 800, 900 videos available,
covering a lot of topics,
so wherever your city is,
or wherever, if you wanna look at the geometry,
if you wanna look at the measure knowledge,
or is a particular city,
or I'll probably have something where you're from,
or in your area to show that it's a part of a much wider,
much more practice system,
and you'll see these themes repeated consistently,
and I've, yeah, modern and ancient,
we haven't really, yeah, the ancient origins of this,
I've, well, so much information,
and then how they all connect,
yeah, we really haven't even skimmed the surface
at the tip of the iceberg when it comes to this.
That's the point, that's the point,
and so our audience only got a tease,
and they got to see one thread,
or two threads of the spider,
and so that being said, also,
we gotta get a PayPal set up,
because people have gotta be capable
of being able to help your research,
you haven't even began that process,
and that just goes to show the character,
and the motivation behind your work,
but this stuff does take time,
and time is money, it's a measurement, okay?
And so the scales of balance really should be weighing
a little bit more in your favor on this,
because of the hard work you've put in,
and I think what we need to do is,
we need to get you set up on a PayPal.
