We are live, myth-fishing podcast. Ladies and gentlemen, I never would have dreamed, literally a decade ago, of even flirting with the idea of a title for a YouTube video saying Satan was right.
Just the very essence of the superstition of saying those words coming back to bite me as if God might actually, you know, attack me, curse me, something like that was a real reality in my head.
It actually would have been something that I was probably cursing a kid or possibly a future situation going wrong in my life because, well, I'm on the bad guys team now, it seems.
Of course, we're going to be talking about this documentary called Satan's Guide, specifically to the Bible.
I actually spoke to the producer who created this documentary before it went viral on YouTube. I was in the works with Satan himself.
That's right. I've been in cahoots with the guy for a little bit now.
Now, there's going to be some people watching this who are actually going to think that I'm being literally telling you this and they're going to believe this.
That's the kind of mindset that's in the head of some people who watch MythVision.
There are going to be responses to this response, most likely.
I'm pretty positive because we're going to be laying it on thick and hopefully not beating around the bush, letting you know what we honestly think about this documentary as well as the state of the scholarship pertaining to the Bible from old to New Testament.
Without further ado, I want to introduce our guest. I have three joining me today, a trinity of sorts.
It's a reverse trinity of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. You equate them as an upside-down cross.
We're getting pretty heretical pretty quickly here, but I hope you can stay tuned, enjoy, and subscribe to all their YouTube channels.
The links are in the description. With that being said, welcome to MythVision.
It was a terrible moment.
What just happened, man?
There was no mention of Egyptian known words.
Oh, hey, I got Dr. Kill, I got Dr. Joshua Bowen, and then I have my good friend, Paul Davidson.
I mean, you had me. I don't know that I'm here anymore, but...
I know, that was a heck of an intro there, Kip.
Sorry, guys.
This is the documentary we're talking about. Satan's Guide on YouTube.
I am quite impressed with the amount of subscribers from one documentary in just a couple of shorts.
So 33,000 subscribers from one movie.
And then there's the trailer, but Satan's Guide to the Bible, if you haven't watched it, it's fun.
It's got some songs that are going to stay in your head.
I'm going to let it shine. That's been in my head all day.
As my friend, Paula Gia said, we all just wish we're the ones who made this documentary.
Right.
Right.
It's just this documentary has been in the works for over a decade.
To give some people context to this, the works that have been being done by Satan himself predates myth vision and the critical stuff that we've been doing on YouTube in this way.
And I find it interesting that some people thought, I think you told me this, Kip, that I made this video or something.
Was that you?
I heard from one person, at least, who was suspicious that you might have been the creator.
Got it.
Well, it makes sense in light of critical scholars coming on and just laying it on thick as to what is going on with the Bible.
And so I definitely want to get into that. We're going to get into some sections.
It's too long for us to review tonight. Dr. Josh, you know, has a certain time restriction.
And I think Kent Hoven's supposed to be visiting Josh sometime here in a little bit.
He's popping up stairs recently.
So when Kent Hoven comes by, do you have to, like, do you have to go? Is that it? You have to go hang out?
Well, I mean, it's nothing that comes by, right? Like he's been crashing our basement for about two years now.
Right, right.
Okay.
I mean, if you go upstairs, you know, it becomes a problem.
You have to hide the kids.
Keep them away from them.
Yeah.
So subscribe inquisitive Bible reader. Subscribe to Kip Davis.
I mean, literally, I'd love to spend more time, but we do want to get into the review and have some fun with all of you, giving our honest thoughts laid on their thick.
And if you have any problems, we're going to try and express what we may have said differently or whatever.
So subscribe to my friend Paul Davidson, Kip Davis.
And of course, Megan Lewis runs the channel, which is why the channel is so fabulous.
Joshua Bowen, of course, is also in cahoots with digital homerabi as well as has written many books and has some on the way.
Recently did the Old Testament door slavery volume two second edition.
And you just you got to get some of the books that he has also courses on MVP courses.
Kip Davis did pretty much real ancient Israelite religion, taking you into what it would have been like back then.
So that being said, I think it's.
Wow.
Have you watched Dune Part Two, guys?
That's a good question.
Getting I'm sure Rob is going to talk about it for 40 minutes.
OK, OK, Rob, we see you.
OK, enough joking around Satan's guide here.
Do we want to jump in and head first into Egypt, Exodus, or do we want to comment first before we play?
I mean, it's probably it's probably worthwhile.
Maybe just saying something about the documentary to start with.
As I saw it and the reason I really liked it beyond the fact that it's very entertaining and incredibly well produced.
The thing that I loved so much about it was that this was a documentary about critical biblical scholarship.
And, you know, there's just not enough of there's just not enough of those, right?
I thought it was a very nice way of presenting to people who may not be overly familiar with, you know, modern biblical scholarship or even the difference between modern biblical scholarship and theology or the difference between what scholars do and what pastors do.
I thought this was a really nice, very digestible introduction to to the kind of work that scholars do, why they do it and and where this takes us.
And, you know, the thing that's, I think, really important to say and not that I've memorized, obviously, I haven't memorized all the things that he covers in the video.
I did.
I don't know what.
Sorry, guys, I'm not kept Davis.
But I mean, like, I don't remember watching the video and thinking.
I don't know that that seems a little fringe or it seems like a minority position in the field.
Like, I just I just don't remember that coming up.
In fact, very, very frequently thinking to myself, yeah, this, this is just what scholars say about this, right?
Like, so it's been funny to me to watch different apologists try to come at this.
Right.
And they they yeah, it's just I know we say it all the time, right?
Keep them in these circles like, guys, this this isn't something that's like really up to up for debate in the field.
This is just this is just what what scholars say about it.
So it's definitely propaganda, though, you would say.
Yes, well, I mean, obviously that, of course, as long as we know that Paul, what's your comments on it before we start?
Yeah, it's just it's a pleasure to see a video in the in the genre of, you know, critical biblical studies that has this level of quality, this level of care and thought put into it, you know, the writing is fantastic.
Jokes are funny. And that's going to engage regular people the way almost nothing else in this area will.
Yeah, and like, like, Kip and apology the other day said we all kind of wish we had made a video like this.
That's like, that's a good point.
It's hitting the spot. I think that, you know, Bart Ehrman hit with his popular books.
Years and years ago, it's it's really approachable.
I loved it. I'll just say just to say up front, Richard C Miller actually introduced me to the man behind the mask and I was really thankful to be involved in this.
But I think what really interests me for those who actually watch the documentary is how quickly the bad guy actually becomes the good guy in this entire documentary of just trying to tell you the truth that he's not trying to hide anything and how quickly you realize that there are real
academics in the field who are doing historical critical versus what I think the scholar or these I'll say seminarians are doing leaving seminary who who say well they know this stuff.
But as the other apologists throughout all the YouTube experience from this documentary will say yeah but they don't mention it because it's not true we have better scholarship than that or we disagree with that like Mike Winger might say.
But at the end of the day, what what I find interesting is they're doing theology versus what the actual historical cultural situation is.
And just just to mention with our friend Rob, who made the thumbnail about streaming this stream saying that he's going to be yawning to the to the reactions to this, giving him credit, giving him attention.
Here's your free publicity, Rob.
I just figure it's worth noting that having Michael Heiser say you're doing like which doctory kind of hermeneutics and exegesis or which doctory exegesis which I suspect you would just say is is a Jesus on that thumbnail is I was reading first Corinthians 10.
And I just figure why not start with the weirdest theological interpretation. Paul himself is the one saying, and what does he do with the the Exodus experience.
I don't know some which doctory he says for I do not want you to be ignorant of the fact brothers and sisters that our ancestors were all under the cloud that they all passed through the sea.
They were all baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea. They all ate the same spiritual food and drink the same spiritual drink for they drank from the spiritual rock that accompanied them and that rock was Christ.
Now I don't remember reading anywhere in the Bible in the original context that I'm reading where the rock was a guy or even divine.
I just I just like to picture a guy, you know, whose job for 40 years is to push the wheelbarrow that has the has the big rock in it.
Here's Jesus.
Yeah.
That's theology that's that's that's not historical critical research and we've set up front I think all of us we want to we understand there's going to be several interpretations throughout history.
I think even some of our Genesis stuff Rob's responded to in the past has like looked at some ways of church fathers, spiritualizing and finding Christ and Genesis and all of this kind of stuff.
That doesn't seem to be your guys's interest.
Is it.
Nope, no.
Sorry, I was distracted by the chat what I wasn't distracted.
I'm just ignoring you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Appreciate that.
But yeah, theology can be fun on its own to see, but I'm interested in historical stuff.
Yeah, I mean, I think it's important to recognize and we say this all the time in these public spaces that you know somebody wants to come to Genesis three and say the serpent to Satan.
Fine.
Right.
But I think you have to then recognize that they're doing that through an interpretive framework.
Right.
They have a lens.
They're utilizing other textual data.
They have presuppositions about the text and they're reading that essentially back into it.
And that's fine.
But you just have to be able to distinguish that between what did the author mean.
Right.
When he wrote it, what do they mean in its original context.
So, you know, both can be meaningful.
Both can be useful.
We just have to make sure we keep them distinct.
And it fair to say that that's also the interpretation of Satan, who is the gentleman in the documentary the entire time the substitute teacher teaching these kids.
Correct.
It's a theological interpretation is my point to see him as evil villain contrary to God.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That should be fun.
Let's do it.
Let's do it.
I'm going to start us off with Exodus.
Kip, Kip and Josh wanted to start there.
Let's do it.
Let me know.
Pause me.
And I will be happy to pause to have your comments is act in history in the Old Testament.
That's the Exodus.
Freedom.
Liberation.
The Bible says Israelites lived in Egypt for more than 400 years.
Slaves to the empire.
The Bible tells about a great man.
Moses.
That's Moses.
Moses takes on Pharaoh and his empire.
Let my people go.
The Egyptian Pharaoh did not let go of Moses or his people.
More than two million Israelites.
You guys never leave in Egypt.
Okay.
Like never, never, ever.
So God intervened, attacking Egypt with ten truly awful plague.
The last plague, killing all firstborn children.
Outs.
Listen to what the Bible says.
And it came to pass that at midnight the Lord smote all the firstborn in the land of Egypt.
Just keep praying.
God's smoting gives the Israelites their chance to finally escape Egypt.
Rise up.
Get thee gone.
For now.
We out.
But it wasn't long before Pharaoh sent his army to take back the Israelites.
Dumb decision.
On the banks of the Red Sea the Israelites' quest for freedom has reached a dead end.
Moses parts the waters and more than two million Israelites escape Egyptian bondage.
Freedom.
Let my people go.
And now we're reading from Dr. Hendel.
As a story of deliverance from oppression, the birth of freedom, the Exodus story has served as a paradigm for over two-and-a-half millennia.
Paradigm.
Liberation.
And freedom.
God acting in history.
So the Bible says, but what do biblical scholars say?
There is no archaeological evidence that would support an idea of a historical, large-scale Exodus from Egypt.
The Exodus from Egypt never happened.
He's a Berkeley professor, Michele.
There's no archaeology evidence of the Exodus.
Out of Egypt they did not come.
But the Bible says the Israelites lived in Egypt for 130 years.
That's probably going to be a second.
Oh, no.
It's captivating, honestly.
You know, Lester Grabe put out a book, I think in 2023, where he's looking at, like, it's a second part.
It's a second volume in a sort of a two-part work, I think is how it was built.
But he's looking at early, like, where did the Israelites come from, right?
It's sort of the same old question, the $64,000 question that scholars have been wrestling with.
And, you know, I think it's important to note, as he does, and so many scholars, I think, hold this position, obviously not all of them,
that while it is absolutely agreed upon, right, among historical critical scholars and archaeologists,
that, you know, this picture of 2.5 to 3 million individuals leaving out of New Kingdom, Egypt,
leaving Egypt to go to Egypt ostensibly, right, Egyptian-controlled land,
does not reflect, you know, reality on the ground.
And the Israelites are, yeah, Canaanites that are moving up into the highlands during Iron I or the end of the late Bronze Age.
While that's true, that doesn't necessarily mean that you didn't have individuals, pastoral nomads,
you know, even, like, Canaanite slaves from Egypt that made their way up into the highlands, you know,
and the group that was building there in Iron I,
and bringing these stories or this story with them, right?
We don't, like, how are we going to verify that? That's a tough one to verify, right?
You know, the idea that a handful of Canaanite slaves with the collapse of Egypt and its hold on Canaan,
you know, they escape out and, you know, credit their God with miraculous deliverance from slavery.
That's perfectly within the realm of possibility.
So, like, when he says out of Egypt they did not come, you know, obviously we want to put that in context.
Like, we can't, I don't think anybody would argue that we can't know, I don't think anybody would argue that we can know,
there you go, that no one of, you know, the proto-Israelites or Iron I, you know, whatever, Israel did not come.
I have no idea what my negations did there, but hopefully you guys understand what I was saying.
It's possible. That's the right way to say it.
What it all boils down to all the time, Kip.
Josh, you literally, in your story, which we launched remarkably as 60,000 views in two days for your deconversion story,
mentioned that possible, possible, possible.
And while it is, and I'm not ruling it out, it could even be likely, in some case,
that a small group or individuals or a couple people escape, whatever, it's also plausible.
There are other explanations, and I love to venture into those just to highlight and plug me and Paul here, Paul here,
is that we absolutely totally watch what critical scholars are doing with that.
Then we also explore it from a literary level.
There's kind of a romantic idea about Egypt in its end.
There are various stories where people are in this exotic land of Egypt, and it's not just the Bible story.
And then they like find a way to escape this evil pharaoh or the pharaoh is trying to take the wife.
There's a Greek story.
I'm just saying there's probably various types of stories where Egypt plays a central exotic role in that theme.
And I don't know what actually is history.
What we could say with any high confidence is all I'm saying.
There's plausible explanations in different ways of viewing it, in my opinion.
But I entertain the idea that there's a kernel, cultural memory or something like that.
It's just, I do both.
And I think it's important to point out this is what Professor Hendel says, right?
He says there's no evidence of any kind for any sort of exodus.
He says there's no evidence for a widespread exodus as presented in the book of exodus.
And I think, I mean, I've mentioned this a number of times in a number of different places.
We even have some texts within the Bible itself that present some softly different alternative kinds of views of this migration from the south, whatever it was, right?
One of my favorites is in Hosea 12, where there's a mixing.
Hosea looks to me like he's mixing alternative traditions about national origins, maybe those belonging to the south and those belonging to the north.
And in the exodus traditions that he has, there's mention of an anonymous prophet who leads the people.
He's never named.
He's just this prophet who led you out of Egypt, basically, what Hosea says.
So scholars, when they say there's no evidence for the exodus, what they're talking about is the very dramatic detailed story
as it's presented in the book of exodus.
Can I give an example that complements this?
Yeah.
When you research classics and you're looking at people who are looking at Homer's Odyssey to look at Trojan War, the Iliad, they say there was probably a Troy.
There was a real city named Troy and such.
But that war, as described in the Odyssey, is potentially being kind of relifted and rewritten into Homer from an earlier Hittite narrative.
And then when you ask the scholars who look at that, they say, actually, there was no such narrative story of that war.
There was no Trojan horse.
That's all fiction, but there was a place called Troy.
And what are we going to become apologists and try to make that Trojan horse?
It better have happened.
Or are we going to go, all right, there's total liberty in the narrative.
The point of it isn't what actually literally is being written here, but maybe there's just an idea of freedom.
God saving and redeeming his people as he promised, constant promises.
You see where I'm going with it, I'm sure.
Yeah.
I mean, was there a Gilgamesh?
Probably.
Right.
And we seem to have some evidence and pretty good evidence that there was a Gilgamesh in the third millennium.
Does that mean that because there was a king of Orruk named Gilgamesh that he went out with Enkidu and killed Huwaba in the Cedar Forest and out?
That happened.
Yeah.
I mean, like, so, you know, was there a Naram sin?
Was there a Sargon of Akkad?
Yeah, of course.
Right.
Does that mean that Naram sin actually like sent out troops to go prick demon, you know, soldiers that were coming to see if they had they bled?
I mean, like, no, of course not.
Right.
So I think, you know, understanding that these things can be distinct.
I think this is important.
And then I'll shut up.
I think it's important to be careful in these moments or precise in these moments, at least in particular context, for atheists and skeptics to be able to say in the same way that we say,
you know, yeah, let's be careful about what these passages about slavery are saying.
I think in the same way we need to be able to say, you know, let's be careful about when we talk about evidence for the exodus or not.
Let's not go too far and say impossible that anybody could have left Egypt, right?
Because that's not the case.
No.
And like we have evidence of people leaving and going into just like we have evidence that there were wars in the place called Troy.
But that war, as described in the narrative, never happened according to the critical scholars who investigate that.
And they would have probably, if they were studied in the Bible, had approached the Bible the same way in the sense of being critical and analyzing it this way as anyone else.
It's just when people need these things is where I see things happen.
So do we want to continue playing it there or did you guys have enough with exodus?
Could I just say one thing quickly?
Yeah, please.
I think the grand scale of the exodus story makes us forget that there's other traditions in the Bible that almost blatantly contradicted and I'll just give one quick example that most people don't know about.
You know, first Chronicles seven, you've got this story where Ephraim is not, you know, the son of Joseph born in Egypt.
He's a native settler of the land called Ephraim, and he has sons who go down to Gath and try to steal some cattle and get killed for it.
And then he has a child named Bariah who's like named to remind them of their loss and then his children go on to like found these other Ephraimite cities.
And then Joshua becomes one of his descendants.
And you cannot take this story literally and also take the exodus story literally, you know, the the Bible's got these traditions that compete with each other.
And we tend to pick the ones that are more memorable and just focus on the historicity of those and forget all these little side side stories that are in the Bible.
So just to make sure our audience caught that issue, it is the fact that Ephraim, a descendant of Ephraim is Joshua from the book of Joshua.
Yeah, and not only that, but this this whole image that the the chronicler presents in chapter seven implies that there never was an exodus.
Ephraim and, you know, the other tribes are just native to that to their lands from the beginning.
Like there's no place for an exodus here.
Got it.
Interesting.
What's the function of the exodus?
Okay, guys, where are we, where are we going next?
We're having a blast.
I hope nobody's yawning at us yet.
Where do you guys want to go?
Did you want to?
Israelites are Canaanites?
Yeah, sure.
Kips like the Kips like that under director here where I was just sort of looking at.
What do you want to do, Kip?
I'm just here to have fun, Paul, feel free.
Thanks for interrupting because that was important.
All right, here we go.
That's what's next, right?
Yes.
Yeah, that's what we're going to do now.
Sure.
There we go.
According to evangelical scholars are so awful they deserve to lose their homes.
Please locate your nearest exit now.
God simply wants to steal the Canaanites land.
Thank God.
Satan gets it.
But God's plot to steal the Canaanites land is about to take an unexpected turn.
Think back to the aides of Israel.
If Moses and the Israelites never came from Egypt.
If not out of Egypt, where are the Israelites really from?
Where did they come from?
For reals.
So when the archaeologists look at the material culture of early Israelite villages, they're
continuous with the material culture of Canaanite culture.
It's the same culture.
What?
Aren't Canaanites the bad guys?
Hebrew is a Canaanite language, and the early writings from the Bible show a clear continuity
with older Canaanite literature, with Canaanite poetic forms, literary forms, people's names,
people's language.
This is all native Canaanite stuff.
Early Israelite settlements left archaeologists with native Canaanite stuff.
One of the names of God in the Bible is El, and El we know was also the name of the chief
God of the Canaanite pantheon.
Evidence that Israelites worship the Canaanite God El is written into the name Israel itself.
It is?
Including the name Israel itself, which originally meant something like El rules.
El rules?
El rules?
The Canaanite High God El.
El rules.
Now watch this.
So the combination of archaeological evidence and textual and linguistic evidence makes it
seem pretty obvious that the early Israelites were Canaanites.
Whoa.
Gosh.
Can it be?
The Israelites are another group ofites from Canaan.
You little feather you, Egypt my ass.
Israelites are Canaanites?
The archaeological conclusion is that these are the same people.
Israelites cannot be Canaanites.
That would make a dirty diaper of the entire Bible story.
Uh, hello?
Anyone with a brain available?
Like duh.
Israelites can't be from the Promised Land.
Because later in my book, they still gotta enter the Promised Land.
This guy.
All right.
I already entered.
Okay.
Why lie about escaping Egypt?
And I think fantastic origin stories is what everybody did.
Every schmuck has an origin story.
That's what I'm trying to say.
We all got them.
Okay.
Israel is right.
John Collins explains it.
The peoples of the ancient Near East engaged in what might be called competitive historiography
to show how their national heroes outran the heroes of other peoples
over the true and most ancient founders of culture.
You're saying all this Bible history is just made up to impress the neighbors?
Is that really all it is?
There's no need to minimize the power of story.
The original function of the story was to initiate people into an identity of being Israelite.
The Bible calls the first Israelites a mixed multitude.
From a mixed multitude of Canaanites into a unified, connected group of Israelites
who were in the process of crystallizing into the people of Israel.
In other words, the story in a way makes the people into the people.
The story makes the people into the people?
The story makes the people into the people.
And I think we should pause.
So no Egypt.
Enough.
For a second.
Okay.
Because there are many levels that work here.
So if you think about the Akkadian, the very famous story that we're all aware of,
the Enuma Elish, this story about the God Marduk and his ascendancy over the other gods.
We have an Assyrian version of this myth and it's fragmentary.
But people can read Lambert's work on this in his 2013 Eisenbahn's publication
in the Mesopotamian Civilizations series.
Like, essentially you have this Babylonian myth from Southern Mesopotamia.
Very, very important.
Right?
It's recited at every New Year's festival.
It's a key to festival.
And it's such a foundational story, particularly during the first millennium.
And there's a time where the Neo-Assyrians are in control during this first half of the first millennium B.C.
And the Neo-Assyrian king goes down and sort of sacks parts of Babylonia that are under his control,
sort of his punishment.
And a short time later, we see this Assyrian version of this very, very important story called the Enuma Elish.
And it's a story that everybody knows.
Everybody knows where it came from.
It's been around for quite some time, right?
Half a millennium.
And yet this Assyrian version, which seems to sort of just come up,
essentially just replaces the name of the god Marduk, the protagonist of the story,
with the name of the Assyrian, Marduk was the Babylonian god, the chief Babylonian god,
or the chief Babylonian god.
And replaces it with the chief Assyrian, god Asher.
So everywhere you're in the story that you would, that you would see Marduk, they just replace it with Asher.
So the storyline essentially stays the same.
Now, were these people like ignorant of the fact that this, did they all just like forget?
Oh, this is a Babylonian story.
You know, they just, they forgot that part.
No, of course not.
It's very intelligent people.
There's something more to your deity being assigned the role of conqueror,
of the most powerful, of, you know, the one that's put in charge, whatever,
simply assigning that has power, right?
There's, there's, there's a reason that they did this.
And it wasn't because they, you know, were like trying to suppress something else.
In the same way, when you see these like formation stories, right?
The texts are doing something.
There's more to it than just we want to recount specifically the history, right?
Because they didn't have that category necessarily like we have today.
Instead, the texts have additional layers of power, right?
That, that, that maybe we wouldn't recognize today.
And I think that's important to, to bear in mind when you come through these,
and you read these texts and you engage in these topics, because texts do things.
And I think that's what John Collins is getting at, is Ron Hendles getting at,
and certainly that's what the video is getting at, texts do things.
Maybe, I mean, in, in real world terms, like this, I think this is what,
and maybe this, this helps piggyback a little bit on, on what Josh said,
but, but in real world terms, like what's happening on the ground is,
is often going to look very different from the ways in which people represent these ideas,
especially with regards to issues pertaining to origins, ethnicity, connectedness,
you know, why, why we're more closely related to this group of people
than we are to this other group of people.
You know, one of the things that the genealogies, the many different
and often conflicting genealogies spread throughout the, the Hebrew Bible.
One of the, the critical functions of these types of texts is to identify ourselves relative to everyone else,
and they're structured in such a way which shows their closest relations,
you know, those people who are around them, and then there's like another layer of people who are,
of people who are, you know, a step removed from them.
This is all communicated through the genealogies.
Now, when you, so that's, that's, that's one thing, right?
Some of this, you know, is, well, it's an idealized perspective,
but it doesn't often work on the ground, right?
Like one of the things that, you know, a question to consider
when approaching the way the texts interact with the material culture
or with our social or cultural history of Israel is just to ask,
well, if you've got, how does, how does one become a member of an ancient Israelite tribe?
I think the natural response is, well, you're born into it.
Is everybody born into it?
Or do these groupings just kind of swallow people up in their orbit as they grow?
And these people who might not even be closely related
come to form this idea of being all part of a family, right?
And it, people adopt a figurehead or a patriarch,
whether they have this direct relation to them or not.
At some point in time, it just becomes impossible to trace
that kind of an, an origin beyond like three, four, five generations.
I mean, think of how difficult it is for us today now in the modern world with, you know, records
and try to imagine how much more difficult that would be in antiquity
where most of these people can't even write or read, right?
And then there's, you know, there's another level of this too.
So we know that in 722 BCE, the Assyrians came into the kingdom of Samaria
or the kingdom of Israel and, and they wiped it out.
They destroyed the city.
They, they took a bunch of the people back to Nineveh with them, but not everyone.
As far as the Bible is concerned, it's gone.
Like, and, and the text itself doesn't make a distinction between the people who lived there
and the nation of Israel.
It's just gone.
It is no more.
You know, there's, this is, this is where, you know, these, these myths and ideas
about the so-called lost 10 tribes of Israel come from.
Did, like, where did they go?
Did they all, did they all go to us?
Did they all go to Assyria?
Well, no, the vast majority of the people stayed in the region.
Now, a huge number of these people, we can see when we're, we're tracking the demographic
developments in, in the archeological layers of, of Jerusalem.
We see that lots of these people came south to Jerusalem.
Now, so there, there, there's this, this, um, this migration south from the text perspective,
the king, like the northern kingdom is gone.
But all these people effectively kind of become subsumed into the vacuum, right?
The vacuum which is filled in large part by the southern kingdom, by Judah.
So, you know, this is, this is very much how, how these texts work.
And in particular, with regards to this question of, you know, who the Israelites were
and where they came from, it worked like this.
There are people who forged an identity on the basis of, you know, common relationships
with one another through families, common ideas with regards to, you know, the, the,
the tribal god Yahweh, um, common, uh, common enemies in, in some cases.
But they, they galvanized themselves around these ideas.
And, you know, that's where, uh, the stories end up coming from.
Um, yeah, I was just going to say that for me studying this stuff, you know, um,
it's easy for apologists to say, well, just because there's no, you know, archaeological evidence
for the Exodus and for Jews in Israel doesn't mean it didn't happen.
We're just missing it.
You know, there's obviously huge gaps in, in the, in the record.
But what I find the most compelling is the, um, what Ronald Handel was saying here
in that the, uh, the material culture of Israel is in complete continuity.
The language is in continuity.
The religion is in continuity with the Bronze Age Canaanites.
There's, there's no gap.
There's no place where this whole nation could have been immersed in Egyptian culture
and language for 400 years and then just came back like nothing had ever happened.
So for me, that's sort of the clincher that Israel was always a Canaanite country,
even if they had this myth of origins in Egypt, even if maybe some of their people did come from Egypt
as small groups of slaves or priests or whatever.
Um, and then just to comment on what Kip said about genealogies, you know, they're,
they're doing a lot of work to, through the genealogies to distinguish themselves from the other Canaanites
by saying, well, the Canaanites are part of the, uh, Ham's lineage with the Egyptians
and we're part of this other lineage.
And it's just, it's funny that the genealogies have to do what's, what reality,
what the religion and the language cannot accomplish on its own.
And, and, and look, just very quickly, like an important point that I think for many people
just takes a little bit of time for it to sink in and hearing it and sort of engaging with it.
Um, just because Genesis comes first in the Canon doesn't mean that it comes earliest, right?
And I think that's something that's difficult for people to, to sometimes wrap their heads around,
particularly if they're raised like I was in like a more fundamental,
Steve Angelicole community.
You know, these texts, like, there isn't a, uh, an Exodus tradition.
Like Stephen Russell wrote this, um, uh, volume where he's arguing for three different Exodus traditions.
Uh, and they may go back early.
That may not think he very generously, uh, conservatively could says,
you know, one of them might go back to like the 11th century.
Um, but of course it would have been a neural form.
And, but you have, he argues for a northern tradition, which has its own nuances,
uh, a southern tradition and a trans Jordanian, uh, tradition, and they're all different, right?
And these texts, like, whether you take a, like a neodocumentarian view of the formation of the Pentateuch,
or if you take like a tradition historical view in either case, these are at a minimum hundreds of years,
half a millennium later than the events are purported to have taken place.
And that's just for their like initial stages under one particular view.
Um, these texts are undergoing redaction, right?
At a minimum, they're being compiled.
And this is happening much, much later, right?
And then you have P material and then you have holiness material.
Like these are things that are, that are in many ways, uh, let's say kindly coloring the text, right?
Uh, and so anyway, the point that I'm trying to make, um, is that we're not dealing with a text contemporaneous with its purported events.
Right.
You're dealing with the tradition, uh, that is hundreds, you know, it's being put together at an earliest hundreds of years later into writing.
Um, and that's, that's an important point to recognize, uh, in this, in this discussion.
Gentlemen, let's bump into child sacrifice as, uh, in ancient Israel.
I think, is it not our next one?
If I'm not mistaken, I think so.
Cause we did.
I see you doing this.
Yeah, let's do that.
Let's go to child sacrifice.
And, uh, here we go.
Plenty.
Child sacrifice.
Only false gods do that.
That's totally gross.
My God is definitely not cool with child sacrifice.
They get to the point where they're actually sacrificing their children.
And if Israelites are Canaanites.
Is there like dads kill their kids too?
It is now widely recognized that human sacrifice was practiced in ancient Israel much later than scholars of an earlier generation had assumed.
Oh boy.
Exodus 22 appears to require the sacrifice of the firstborn, the Judean kings, Ahaz and Manasseh are accused of child sacrifice.
The practice cannot be dismissed as due to foreign influence, but had venerable precedence in the cult of Yahweh.
Bologna.
My God is not cool with killing innocent children for divine favors in battle.
That may be, but the God of the Bible is.
Victory in battle is related in an integral way to your offering these things to the deity.
In the 11th chapter of the book of Judges, Jephthah, the leader of the Israelites who are at war with the Ammonites.
Maybe can we pause it there for a second?
Yeah.
Hopefully we can pick it back up because there's still more to come, I'm sure, on this one.
There is.
I think there's a couple of different things going on here that I feel are important to point out.
First of all, it's difficult to evaluate what's going on in ancient Israel with regards to child sacrifice in particular,
because the text as we have it, at the time that it was put together, is so uniformly opposed to this idea.
However, careful readers of the text, and this is maybe something that doesn't come out as clearly in the video,
that the scholars featured would tell you.
Careful scholars reading these texts are going to also see a lot of places in the literature where the common idiom is,
thou dost protest too much.
You have a number of these texts.
I'm thinking in particular of Jeremiah 7.
I think it's verses 7, verses 28 through 30, where Yahweh is talking about how upset he is with the people,
because they've burned their sons in the valley of Tophet in these monk sacrifices,
or as many English translations will translate this as for moleh, thinking this is a deity, but probably not,
because we have this same term applied to these same sorts of rituals in other ancient Near Eastern texts.
So anyways, Jeremiah is going, or Yahweh through Jeremiah is going,
you caused your sons to pass through the fire, you offered them up for burnt offerings in these monk rituals,
and then he goes, this is something I never wanted.
This is something I never commanded.
What are you doing?
Of course I don't want this.
So it's these sorts of texts, or I think it's in Leviticus.
You know there's just a wiggle out of this, by the way, by saying,
well, that was a different cult of Yahweh, and our cult of Yahweh is accurate, and you know what I mean?
There's always a wiggle out of it.
And it might, you know, on some level there might be something to that,
where we recognize that there was not this monolith of Yahweh worship in ancient Israel, right?
In fact, as is typical, you've got Yahweh of Samaria, Yahweh of Shomron,
you've got Yahweh of, I think it's Taima, Taima.
You've got these inscriptions from the region, from the area.
It's very similar to what you read about in the biblical texts with regards to Ba'al.
There's Ba'al of Peor, there's Ba'al of Samaria as well.
So there's these localized systems, these localized communities of worship around these same deities with the same name.
And yeah, I think it's natural to think that they're not going to look exactly like one another in every single place.
And maybe this is part of why Josiah's reforms in 2 Kings chapter 23 are so significant for, you know, his stability and his maintenance of power.
It's part of an effort to consolidate all of these different worship rituals, worship practices into like this one thing.
But the righteous Josiah, didn't he do human sacrifice as part of that cleansing and purity to the right Yahweh God?
You know, that's another issue entirely.
And if anyone's interested, I actually made a video all about this fairly recently.
You can go check that out on my channel.
It doesn't have a clickbaity title at all on it.
So that's one of these things, is just how difficult it is to find some of the ways in which we suspect that this is something that was practiced.
And then within the video, they're also conflating a couple of different things.
Child sacrifice can take various forms in something like the Mulk ritual.
That's a different thing entirely from something like we read in Exodus chapter 22, which is this firstborn offering.
You're to offer the firstborn of your flocks and your animals as well as your firstborn son before they turn eight days old, right?
So that's a different thing entirely from a form of human sacrifice that's taking place in battle traditions in the Israel's war doctrine.
What Susan Nightich is getting at there is that this type of ritualized warfare that we see as an identify as Khadim warfare.
This is the Hebrew word, which is often translated as the devoted thing or the ban.
So these are offerings that have been set aside for Yahweh.
He demands the entire destruction of a city, everything that lives, everything that breathes, is to be killed as an offering to him.
One of the ways in which this works in an ancient Near Eastern economy of sacrifice is within an early mindset, things were transmitted from the human realm, the natural realm, into the divine realm by way of their destruction.
So it makes perfect sense that if you're going to give something to Yahweh, you light it on fire, right? Or you just kill it and then light it on fire.
So I just want to point out there's a variety of different things going on here.
It's hard, it's difficult, and it's incorrect usually to try and consolidate all of these things under one label or one umbrella.
There's various ways in which human beings were killed or slaughtered out of devotion to Yahweh, as with other ancient Near Eastern gods, other Canaanite deities.
Paul, let's give people a sneak peek, and it seems that Satan has distracted Josh, or maybe it's Jesus, I'm not sure.
For those who don't know, I figure why not?
Paul's got an amazing YouTube channel that he's been working on stuff, and I love his editing, and he's like me in terms of diving in.
But because I'm so busy, I've got Paul tackling some of the documentaries I'm doing and one we're working on right now, Paul, can you tease us with it?
Yeah, we're doing everyone's favorite topic, Child Sacrifice. So we'll be covering it in much more depth, of course, than what we just saw.
Yeah, we're gonna have fun with that one, so let's hope it complements some of the things you're saying, but it is, there's no reason, I guess, better way to put it is look at Abraham with Isaac.
Even if he did not sacrifice him in the narrative we have in the Bible, and I haven't even found any, I haven't seen any textual evidence that there's an example that Abraham himself did sacrifice him other than maybe Rabbi's thought maybe later on at some point.
But there is a hint in Eusebius's work, based on Philo Biblos, who's quoting a Phoenician, Senca Neathon, a priest of Canaan, the Phoenician area, talking about the god El, sacrificing his son, Yedud, something, I'm probably butchering the pronunciation.
But he sacrifices his only begotten son, Eusebius says, and then turns around and circumcises himself. So there's definitely something going on with human sacrifice in antiquity.
And is there anything else we need to do, or do we just play some more?
I think we can go on, unless you got something else to say, Josh.
No, I'm going to start ahead.
A little bit more of it, see what it says.
To whoever greets him first when he returns home from battle.
He will devote to the Lord first thing he sees.
But of course it turns out to be his daughter, his only child.
And I'm back, and I won. Who's behind door number one?
Welcome home, Daddy.
Oh, no, he didn't.
But he did, and he did to her as he evolved.
In a war context, what's offered is killing human beings. We have to assume that they assume that God appreciated human sacrifice, right?
Right!
Okay, that's not good, but everything we're trying to do is from me.
Because I really think this is the critical point, right?
Is that people thought this is what Yahweh wanted.
Now, they didn't come to this conclusion, you know, just on their own.
And I think it's a very difficult argument to make that this is just something they decided to do,
counter to all this literature that they have that says,
don't sacrifice your children to Yahweh, or just don't sacrifice your children at all.
No, they thought this because this was part of the religious tradition.
If not everywhere, then certainly in various places at various times.
We don't know how widely this is a practice that was observed, or how often.
But there's plenty of evidence within the texts themselves,
which indicates that people certainly seem to think on a regular basis, this is a good idea.
Now, I know that you're like your point, I've even heard apologists try to say,
Yahweh didn't want him to do it.
And so a lot of times they'll try to wiggle out and say he never sacrificed him,
but the text does not say that it's implied that she needs to mourn her virginity, if anything.
Oh, you're talking about the Jeff the story.
Well, yeah, that's the one that was on the document.
But I think it's important to note that if you would think that if the author wanted you to know that Yahweh was condemning,
or El was condemning this particular Jeff was proposition of sacrificing the first thing that comes to the door.
First of all, the God who controls the universe, depending on how powerful you think he is.
If you're anachronistically applying these theological ideas to him,
why did he even allow the daughter to come in the first place?
But let's just forget all that and just assume, well, she just randomly somehow ends up through the door.
He could have said, listen, I don't need sacrifice.
I don't even need this.
I know you vowed, but I'm a righteous God and I show you mercy.
You don't even need to do that.
The victory was mine to begin with.
He stopped another sacrifice like that.
I can't remember where exactly.
Is it a guy named Abraham Lincoln or something?
Something roughly.
I think it was a anyway.
I really, really appreciate those comments on the human sacrifice side.
Do we want to continue?
Oh, by the way, one comment on this before we do wherever you guys want to go.
I love how he sprinkles in the modern Christian.
He contextualizes how a modern Christian would literally think about some of these things.
Most of them in an everyday pew at church.
If they heard this and actually understood what's being implied and saw it,
how they're like, that's not good.
Yeah.
Good eye.
Good eye.
You're walking with the kids in the video going, my little light shine and all that.
You're singing these songs and then you're going, this isn't good.
That's so clever how he created the documentary doing that.
Where do you want to go next?
I don't know.
What do you have next?
Before we got to the New Testament, I just, well, we could do Bart Ehrman.
Let's talk about Bart Ehrman.
Okay.
Perfect.
There's enough of Bart Ehrman going around for all of us.
All right.
I'm scrolling ahead to what timestamp was that Paul?
4915, I think.
Okay.
Got it.
Here we go.
4915.
He is the most famous of all the biblical scholars.
You got people like a good friend here.
Isn't it amazing that he's a misdemeanor?
I love that he pulled up.
I mean, he's been on Comedy Central.
He's published over 20 books.
The best-selling author with Oxford University Press.
See what Bart Ehrman sees in his quotes in Jesus.
See what Bart Ehrman sees in Jesus' Interrupted.
The Orthodox Corruption of Scripture.
How about that one?
That book right there, it's called Miss Quoting Jesus.
Bart Ehrman, in high school, he trusted Jesus Christ as his personal savior.
And how's it working today?
He's like the premier attacker of the Bible in the world right now.
Our primary English speaking critic.
What happened to Bart?
Demon trickery.
I'm going to take care of him when he clothesline.
That guy is much an idiot.
I don't normally say that about people.
I'm sorry.
Those are things that seminarians learn when they're training for ministry if they go to a mainline Protestant seminary.
They're teaching Bart stuff to everyone?
Anyone who has gone at least through, I would say, a master's level would be well aware of every argument that Bart Ehrman has ever presented.
It's standard stuff.
This is standard stuff that people are taught in all the mainline Christian theological seminaries across the country and in Europe.
And yet most pastors who've gone through that training don't tell their congregations what it is that they've learned.
Seminary secrets.
Yep, health insurance is super important.
If Pastor Mark wants to tell the truth and he loses his health coverage, we could do a bake sale to pay the bill.
Yeah, if his kid breaks a bone, we'll do a bake sale.
Well that is beautiful.
And a whole lot of pie.
Yummy.
Get hurt.
Here's seminary standard stuff about the book of Daniel.
Standard stuff about that.
You want to comment before we get, because I know you want to talk about Daniel.
But any comments before, just.
The about Bart the boogeyman?
Bart the boogeyman.
My wife is a podcast host.
I don't know if anybody knows that.
You know.
Yeah, please mention this too.
That's Megan Lewis, you know, gotta gotta gotta make sure I plug that.
You know, she's she's his podcast host, you know, just the two of them up on the screen.
Once a week.
Once a week.
Yeah, Miss Quoting Jesus podcast.
Check it out.
I'll tell you this.
I've had several conversations with him.
Paul, I know you've got something to definitely jump in on this.
I'm sure.
Bart told me that what he's saying, he has seen other scholars say the same exact things.
This is why I can't help but psychoanalyze to some degree about the tribalistic who it is that's saying it and things like that.
Bruce Metzger, he's seen him lecture talk about the exact same things he says when it comes out of his mouth.
He notices all of the Christian apologists get into the boogeyman mode.
But when Metzger or any Christian academic says it, notice, they're all like, oh, amen, brother, amen, brother.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, that we knew that.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
They do not.
They do not treat.
It's not the same.
And it's about who's saying it because simply Bart doesn't believe in.
He's very vocal about not believing that bothers them.
And I think that's probably something going on in terms of some tribalism or something.
But he's expressed that to me that he's saying nothing different than Metzger or any other Christian academic.
I think you go ahead, Paul.
Okay, I mean, I just thought it was funny that they dedicate a whole section of this video, you know, to Bart Ehrman and I don't follow any apologists these days.
So I'm just impressed by the mind share that Bart Ehrman apparently has in their, in their work and their lives.
Is it just because his books have sold better than anyone else's, you know, his, I mean, I love Bart Ehrman, but he's not saying like you say he's not saying anything else that 1000 other scholars aren't saying.
I think I got my negatives right.
Yeah, is it just.
Maybe, Josh, you have some idea of how many books he sold because I don't, I assume it's in the millions by now.
Oh, yeah, I'm quite sure.
Yeah, guaranteed.
You know, when they mentioned that, I don't know if I, if I caught that the first time or the first couple of times through this documentary, but William Lane Craig there actually said that that Bart Ehrman is the number one selling author for Oxford University Press.
Like, and I don't know how true that is. And I don't know, like, if, if that's, you know, if he's, I'm sure he's the number one selling author of like biblical studies books published by Oxford because they publish all sorts of things.
But doesn't he really publish through Harper?
Did I thought his, I thought his most recent one was through, through Oxford, wasn't it?
The textbook is, yeah.
Okay.
That's the textbook, right?
Oh, no, that's, okay.
Jesus and Jesus interrupted and all the famous ones, those are all Harper Collins, I think.
Okay.
Yeah, and probably, I think the reach is a little wider than OUP.
But in any event, this, I'm, I'm certain that this is, this is the product, right?
It is because, which one was that?
Oxford, that's misquoting, right?
Oh, that's, no, that's a forgery counter forgery, right?
They all sold, let me just put it this way, I know for a fact that he's on like New York Times, top, top, top.
He's up there, upper echelons.
Like he's, he's pretty, he's pretty, he's catching up to faithiest handbook volume too.
He's getting there.
A couple more years.
Neck and neck, you know.
I don't think he'll catch you though, but you know, it's, it's one of those things.
I'm going to continue into Daniel.
It's only, it's only he published with digital hover up, he pressed.
Only, only if he would.
Now we need to get to this awesome prophetic book, which absolutely proves the validity of the Bible.
And, you know, you might see us all convert on screen here after listening to what the book of Daniel has to present.
And predicting the future.
Prophecy.
Daniel was stupendous.
A total winner.
Daniel made many predictions about the future that came true.
Proof the Bible is a godly book.
Admit it, Satan.
Daniel did predict all those things that came true.
Yeah. Hmm.
I wonder how Daniel did it.
By pretending to be someone living in the distant past, an author could predict the future.
Huh?
Pretending?
Like doing impersonations?
Excellent, Betty.
You are right on target.
The book of Daniel, allegedly written by the great wise man of the sixth century BCE,
BC me, was actually written in the judgment of almost all critical scholars some 400 years later.
What the fuck?
If the book of Daniel was written 400 years later, then that would mean Daniel did not author the book of Daniel.
His name is on the book part.
The reality is that the author wasn't living in the sixth century BCE.
He was only claiming to live then.
He was actually living in the second century, 400 years later.
You have a span of time in between.
And the book of Daniel can predict those events.
I love Collins.
Very accurately.
No wonder Daniel could predict the rise of the Persians and the Greeks.
The author of these prophecies lived after they had taken place.
After?
This will happen.
This will happen.
This will happen.
That will happen.
He knew those things were going to happen because he was living after they happened.
So he's not actually predicting the future.
He's pretending to be somebody in the past predicting the future.
It's prophecy after the fact.
That seems kind of wrong.
Why pretend like that?
It's all a big setup.
This is a mark.
The reader.
Your reader reads it and realizes you've been right all along.
Everything you've predicted in fact has happened.
So that then if you go on to predict what's going to happen very soon,
it seems like that's also going to happen because everything else you said has happened.
If the predictions are known to have been accurate down to the present,
then they are likely to be reliable for the future too.
All the after the fact prophecies build the reader's confidence in the very last prophecy.
What was the last prophecy?
Did an enemy king, Antiochus Epiphanes, would die in Israel?
Did he?
Was it in Israel?
Nope.
Not in Israel.
And then the real prediction wasn't actually fulfilled.
A failed prophecy in my book?
In fact, the concluding prophecy of the death of the king was not fulfilled.
That's not right-minded reading, Johnny.
Right-minded readers read rightly.
Just because the very last prophecy did not happen only means that it will eventually happen.
And will eventually be seen to have spoken truly.
Daniel will eventually be seen to have spoken truly.
It could still happen.
I'm sorry, but it's so true.
Yes.
This is good.
This is so good.
This documentary is amazing.
I feel like it just strikes a chord with me at every scene.
It could still happen.
This is a double prediction type of prophecy.
Even the prophet didn't know exactly what it was prophesying.
You are literally describing people.
I'm sure you've engaged them with why you're saying this.
I have had people who've reached out to me who they say, I can't read for sure,
they seem sincerely trying to resolve Daniel with like making it to where it doesn't fail.
They go so far to say none of the authors, not even the New Testament authors
who are trying to kind of use it as a fulfillment.
The Jewish authors that are around this, that were reading and quoting it,
nobody understands it and that it's still going to fulfill itself sometime in the future.
But nobody understood it.
This is not new, right?
In antiquity, 2nd Estras, is it in chapter 12?
I can't remember off the top of my head, 10 or 12.
Daniel thought that the fourth kingdom was Greece,
but God didn't give him the information that he needed as I'm going to give it to you now.
It's actually Rome.
I think we've all lived this though, right?
It's not just our interactions with people online.
I grew up going to a Baptist church when I was a kid and when I was in high school,
my Sunday school class was taught by a guy who was like a died in the wall dispensationalist
and he spent like the full year basically just laying out the book of Daniel
and aligning all the prophecies and calculating the times of when these were going to take place.
I grew up in Calgary, Alberta and back in the 1940s, the premier of Alberta,
that would be the equivalent to an American state, right?
His name was Ernest Manning.
He was not only the premier of Alberta, he was also an evangelical preacher.
Prior to becoming the premier, he had a famous radio show on every week where he taught the Bible.
During the entire time that he was serving in office, he had a microphone on his desk
and continued to do his Bible study radio show every week from the office of power there.
Ernest Manning apparently had commissioned several sets of these elaborate timelines
to be painted on these white linen basically bed sheets and then sewn together.
They were huge.
A timeline illustrating from the beginning of creation all the way through to the last days,
the apocalypse and reading all this stuff through the book of Daniel because we know this hasn't happened yet.
But he had six or seven or eight of these things commissioned and somehow my Sunday school teacher
got a hold of one of these sets of premier Ernest Manning's bed sheets and would string them up.
He'd hang them up around the Sunday school room and out the door and down the hall.
It was captivating.
It was intoxicating kind of stuff, especially when you're in high school, right?
But yeah, this is nothing new.
It's nothing old.
It just keeps going, right?
It does.
Any comments from you guys?
Sorry.
I mean, the whole timeline of Daniel is a mess from the start, right?
The very first verse, in the third year of the reign of King Jehoiachim of Judah,
King Nebuchadnezzar of Babylon came to Jerusalem besieged it.
And that dates off by 11 years, I think.
Yeah.
Or something like it's even within the Bible, you cannot square those timelines.
And this is the past, not the future that Daniel's trying to predict.
As Josh has said several times, and I mean, highlighting the scholarly works of John Collins,
who's in this documentary and others, that the further back, the less accurate,
the closer to the second century BCE, the more accurate and to the T, it's accurate.
And then after the time, the author supposedly wrote these things wrong completely,
like doesn't get a single thing correct after that timeline,
which helps authors pin down the timing in which this author most likely wrote.
And yes, there's some complexity with Daniel, it's using various languages,
which Josh has a book on right there with Aramaic chapters one through seven.
Right.
Yeah.
I'll plug it because I read it on the plane ride down to a thing that I,
a place I spoke, but it's a 2022 publication, Aramaic Daniel by,
I think it's pronounced too hard, but I think he's out at Leiden.
But it's just, it's an excellent work.
He's looking at the various layers that you see in the Aramaic chapters of the book
and making arguments for like their progression.
It's a dense read.
I don't want anybody to think it's not a dense read.
But yeah, it's pretty excellent.
Thank you on that.
I'll say one other thing about this, like what, one of the reasons,
I mean, if it was just the book of Daniel, then I don't know, maybe,
maybe that that's, that's a better case for trying to special plead your way through this.
But the thing is, we have all sorts of examples of this same type of literature.
We have tons of it in the Dead Sea Scrolls where they're doing exactly the same thing.
And some of the texts that we have surviving in the Dead Sea Scrolls are texts
written around the same period of time as Daniel and doing the same things.
There's, there's texts from other parts of the Ancient Aries that are similar to this.
I think it's the, I believe it's the dynastic prophecies from Babylon are doing the same thing.
There are prophecies, you know, about the, the, the, the, the end of the, the rule,
the end of the, the Neobabalonian Empire, basically the, the, the transition of time from,
from Nebuchadnezzar's death to, to the, the very unpopular Nabonitis.
But set hundreds of years earlier, right, as if it's predicting what's going to happen.
You know, we've got so many examples of this type of literature from, from other places.
So much so that, you know, if you, for someone who wants to glom onto Daniel as, as somehow historical
and somehow, you know, these special examples of fulfilled prophecy, then you kind of have
to do the same thing for the dynastic prophecies.
And then for things like the Book of Enoch and things like the Book of Jubilees and things
like the Apocryphon of Jeremiah or the Aramaic Levi document.
Or I don't know, piles and piles of this other literature.
Hey, I don't mean to cut you off here.
Something, oh, who's this?
Oh my God.
I told you, Josh, I'll be, I'll be, I'll be out in just a minute.
Hey, folks, Ken Hoven here.
I, I'll be done in the basement, drinking coffee for about the past four and a half hours.
I'm a little worked up.
Okay.
But I'm here to tell you that, you know, your thoughts on Satan's guide to the Bible are,
are, I think misplaced.
And of course, of course, he's, he's straight from the devil.
I'm pretty funny there.
Himself.
I just like that Bart Ehrman.
Okay.
So, of course, we know that, you know, Jesus probably believed in that evolution, you know,
and that you, you come from soup.
Okay.
But we know that the water rained down on the authors.
Okay.
I'm here to help.
Wow.
So, Ken, you don't agree with the documentary?
Oh, well, I mean, you're probably one of those perverts, aren't you, Derek?
Sitting there thinking about those 14 foot whale penises.
That's probably where that question came from.
What else you got for me here?
Because obviously, you know, something that has a Satan's name in it.
Of course, that would be straight from the devil.
Okay.
I'm here to help.
Well, Ken, it seems like Josh had to leave because he's trying to protect his kids from you.
I, thanks for showing up and, you know, I don't have time to sit around here with you,
atheist, and you're on your way to hell.
Repent, you know, and believe the gospel.
Okay.
And come on down to Dinosaur Adventureland.
$59.95 will give you a good discount.
Okay.
You know, because we got some great places to stay.
A couple of alligators here and there.
But, you know, as long as we can be careful.
I heard the slender was very good, too.
You Canadians, you probably don't even know how to swim.
Yeah, pervert.
All right.
Okay.
I don't have time to sit around here and play with you guys.
You know, I'll make sure that, I'll make sure that Josh knows what you think about it
and how you're bringing him down to hell.
Okay.
I'm here to help.
Appreciate it.
Oh, have a good night.
You as well.
Oh, that guy can't, man.
That guy can't.
Do we need to continue with Daniel?
That guy.
I think we're good unless Paul, do you have, do you have some more?
I just want to plug Kip's recent videos on Daniel,
especially the Dead Sea School stuff.
Oh, thanks, man.
I appreciate that.
That was really good.
Yeah.
And I'll just, I'll just say on that point, one of, one of the things that,
that evangelical apologists will do with some frequency is appeal to the Dead Sea
Scrolls in an effort to, to promote this idea of, of Daniel's antiquity and is,
is, you know, legitimacy as, as like a, a forth telling prophet.
But I got to tell you, when I read the Dead Sea Scrolls,
I see a much, much different picture.
And it's one that rather illustrates very clearly the developmental picture of the
book of Daniel that scholars have been positing for centuries now.
Hmm.
So scholarships on the right track.
We seem to be.
I would, I'm going to go with that.
People who know the languages and are actually investigating the stuff the same
would approach any material in antiquity.
Let's go to Felden time prophecies roll call real quick here.
And then hopefully we can roll it to Paul's missing tomb,
but we'll stop here before we get to Paul's missing tomb.
Cause I know that's one that Paul wanted to get to.
Some truly good people got a little too wild with the apocalypticism.
A lot more than some, all the top players did.
Most people think it's only cooks and nutters predicting the end of the world.
Instead, failed apocalyptic prophecies have been offered up by the biggest stars of the Christian faith.
That's Billy Graham.
He predicted the end.
Yeah.
Billy said the end would come before 1952.
Humans got a human.
Mr. Protestant Christianity himself had the end coming before 1600.
Christopher Columbus said it would end in 1501.
Columbus?
Seriously?
Lots of popes.
St. Patrick of St. Paddy's Day fame.
Game Clover.
Third century Christian star Hippolytus of Rome.
Second century's Tertullian.
Who, who, and who?
And listening to you, Jesus.
You got a little too wild with the apocalypticism, didn't you?
And you got a little blah, blah, blah with the blah, blah, blah.
Did you not preach a first century ending?
Did you not preach a first century ending?
Jesus was not a false prophet.
You calling Jesus a liar?
I know he does, Satan.
Close your ears to his words, slanderous, deceitful, deadly words.
People will burn because of your lies, Satan.
I invent nothing.
Christian seminaries teach it.
Sorry, Satan, but that's beyond plausible.
Which part?
Christian seminaries teaching Jesus, making failed prophecies.
Failed apocalyptic prophecies.
Some of them that stand here.
End of the world prophecies?
That fail to come to pass.
Christian seminaries teach that.
About Jesus?
That's a seminary secret?
The biggest one.
Jesus told his followers the end would happen soon.
And soon didn't happen.
That's the seminary's biggest secret.
If Jesus said that it would be soon and it didn't happen,
then he was wrong about that.
Jesus was wrong?
There's no scriptural proof for anything that you're saying.
It's not in the Bible.
Jesus' failed prophecies are in the Bible.
Where?
Hiding in plain sight.
What verse?
Where?
I'm going to show you.
It's not in the Bible.
First things first.
Let's look at the reason this whole gigantic Christian thing got rolling.
Shout out to me.
Because Jesus.
Jesus is the reason.
Which leads us to the most important event for all Christians.
The resurrection.
It's the single biggest event in the Bible.
It's the reason for Christianity.
Okay.
You're not muted, Kip.
Let me mute him.
So, Paul, did you have a comment on that?
No, not really.
I just wanted to comment on the tune, but that'll come up.
Okay.
So you don't have anything to say about the failed apocalyptic
expectations and stuff?
Well, I think it's interesting that they bring on Dale Allison to talk about this,
because up until now they've been relying on Mark Inonaut,
but Allison is quite a devout Presbyterian, I think.
Like, he's not, you know, some atheist trying to debunk the Bible.
He's, you know.
But that's a pretty honest statement, and he's over and over made this point.
I mean, C.S. Lewis called that verse in Mark the most embarrassing verse in the Bible,
I think, because he couldn't defend it either.
Right.
Wow.
I didn't know that.
Yeah.
I think that's one of the things he did say and admitted that.
One of the things we did when we were trying to fix this as Christians in eschatology
becoming full preterist, the heretics that we were trying to make the second coming
of Jesus in 70 AD, which is its own topic itself, we would go and quote these people.
And the Christians who admitted didn't happen.
And that's why you see, I think the rise of Christians trying to investigate,
looking for possible, what are called conditional eschatology ideas.
Well, if you do good, then I'll come.
So, like, really, it's ignoring the soon passages.
And, like, as if he had any evaluation of really how to track time of when things were
supposed to occur.
And so, technically, it could happen tomorrow.
It could happen in a thousand years.
It could happen in thousands of years.
These Christians have found a way to try and ignore those words in Greek mellow, which
are relevant to the soon or nearness of something happening.
The Bible doesn't know how to speak so that we can actually understand what it means
when it says things.
And they'll just run to 2 Peter 3 where it talks about a day as a thousand years.
So, technically, we have no clue what we're reading or how to know anything,
because words can mean anything now.
And so, you know, it seems like an excuse to get the failure off the hook.
No, that makes sense.
I mean, in a, yeah, in that sort of context, it makes sense.
Right.
Okay, I'm going to move on to the empty, or we'll let resurrection play to the empty
tomb.
I think it's all one little, probably like two minutes.
And then we can get into that.
Resurrection.
It's Jesus's resurrection.
The Bible says Jesus of Nazareth was resurrected from the dead.
No way you say the Bible says Jesus' tomb is empty.
His body vanished.
The earliest discussion we have of the resurrection is provided by Paul in 1 Corinthians 15.
His argument is striking since he makes no mention of an empty tomb.
The oldest mention of Jesus' resurrection comes from Christianity's number two man,
the guy with the most books in the New Testament.
Paul never mentions, not once, the empty tomb.
Back up.
Empty what?
Tomb, dude.
Tomb.
And then there was an empty tomb.
Empty tomb.
Okay, yeah, so.
I was in here.
Totally dead.
And then the tomb was empty.
I'm sorry.
Who was in the tomb?
Jesus.
I will eternally be amazed that you, Paul, you never mentioned the central, core story
about the resurrection.
It is odd Paul never wrote about the empty tomb.
It's super important to know.
Maybe he just forgot about it.
The empty tomb is in the Bible.
Doesn't matter what part.
You guys are so focused on a single empty tomb, you're going to miss out on the main event.
I thought Jesus' resurrection was the main event.
So you got something bigger than the empty tomb, Paul?
I do.
Very soon.
Possibly tonight.
All the tombs will be emptied.
All the tombs.
More than one tomb.
Resurrection in a first century Jewish context is not about some guy rising from the dead
in the middle of history.
It's about a corporate event.
Corporate?
It's kind of a group thing.
As a Jew, Paul was deeply committed to the resurrection of the dead, an ancient belief.
So stinky.
What's the point of digging up dead people?
Because everyone dead or alive faces judgment for their earthly lives.
When the end comes.
The final judgment.
The end of the world.
Before becoming a Christian, Paul was an apocalyptic Jew.
What would an apocalyptic Jew conclude if he or she came to believe that God had now raised someone?
For Paul, the resurrection of Jesus is not an isolated event.
Since one person has already been raised, the rest cannot be far behind.
The end is at hand.
Since the resurrection of the dead was...
Is that all you wanted to cover, Paul?
Yeah, that's enough.
Okay, okay.
I'm not sure how well this video gets across the significance of Paul not mentioning the empty tune.
And maybe I've missed the point.
But what I gather from reading on this subject is that there's this gulf between the time of Paul and his theology.
And the time when the narratives of Jesus get set down in the Gospels.
And it seems very possible.
And I've been reading a lot of Burton Mack on this who died a few years ago.
His books are great, but also very difficult to understand.
But he says that the empty tomb was Mark's way of explaining how Jesus was vindicated by his death and resurrection.
Before Mark's story, the resurrection was not about Jesus popping out of the tomb and appearing to God to disciples and stuff.
The resurrection was more Jesus ascending to heaven after his death and taking his position of power at God's right hand.
And by Mark's time, I guess that spiritualization of the resurrection wasn't enough.
And a more physical story was needed to accomplish the Christian mission and the way that they wanted to represent the apocalyptic views of Jesus.
I don't know if he agrees with that or not.
No, that's interesting.
And I haven't thought.
You're loud if you're too loud.
Sorry.
Mike or something.
Not sure.
Just trying to make sure.
Has it been like that the whole time?
No, since you came back from when you turned your camera off for a second and then you came back.
Okay.
That's better.
Yeah, that's better.
That's better.
All right.
So like, I don't spend nearly enough time, I haven't, looking into a lot of this stuff with Paul.
It's not really in my wheelhouse.
But I mean, one of the things that I think is clear is, and this often gets, I think, misconstrued or lost, is that when you look at those, the text in 1 Corinthians chapter 15.
Where Paul describes the resurrection, it's really quite explicit.
What his point is, right?
Like, you know, there tends to be this fixation on the Creed in the first part of 15 about all the appearances to the people.
And then it ends with that one, right, that he appeared to 500.
And that's usually used as like an apologetic talking point about, oh, wow, look at all these witnesses that you can just go and check it out with, right?
Like, just check them down and talk to them.
That's why Paul included this, right?
This is why the 500 are important in this Creed.
What does Paul say right after that?
Paul says, no, well, you know, he says that most of them are alive, but some have already died.
And then in the following chapter, he starts talking about how nervous and anxious the Corinthians are because of the fact that there's people in their congregation who started to die.
And, you know, nothing's happening.
Like, what's going on?
Aren't we all, isn't this supposed to be a big deal?
Like, we're supposed to experience this final moment, this final resurrection.
And then Paul has to go through and explain, right, in pretty exacting detail exactly what this means.
What is, you know, the resurrection?
What is the replacement of the body of flesh with the body of spirit?
You know, I just, yeah, it's such a critical point in its theology.
And yet so often, it's something that people just do not see even when it's literally like right there.
It's like right in front of your face.
I'll just add to what you said there, Paul, that various scholars have like various observations based on this.
And it seems to be a well-established observation amongst critical scholars that there seems to be a growing theme like you talked about.
But if Mark, he hints at post-appearances, he hints at, like, I'll meet you in Galilee, but he never, there's no documentation of Mark saying,
here they are, they're seeing him in Galilee.
So we have to assume that there would have been some type of appearances, maybe.
But what the other Gospels do, building upon that, I think it's even more telling when a post-resurrection Jesus
gets to be on earth even longer and longer and longer.
Finally, you get to Acts and you have this 40-day period.
And it's like, whoa, what the heck?
Why is he here for 40 days now?
And like they're elaborating a building on this, what looks to be an early possible just translation-ish type of theme.
It depends on what scholar you go to, too, because I know Paul, he's thinking within the Jewish mindset,
but he's also living in a Roman world.
And how he's kissing both the Jewish and the Greek Roman ideas, in my opinion, in this are relevant.
I don't just exclusively look to the Jewish world to answer everything that Paul's talking about.
Of course, I look to it when I think of resurrection.
But some of the things that Paul does, by having this like apotheosized, divinized Jewish man in the manner that he does, is interesting.
So you could run to people like Enoch and stop to try and see if there's any relevance to Enochian type literature in Paul.
And then there's other reasons to think Paul's thinking in a Roman mindset as well, because he's dealing with Gentiles who would have probably understood that better.
But also, he uses language of like Caesar's coming in power, like Jesus is like the Caesar who's coming in power and political ideas that are relevant to his audience, I think, in the Roman world.
So there's so much going on here.
But I do think it's very telling that if he can't get the end right, which is why I wanted to start with that, this corporate resurrection only pops up in Matthew where we see any potential literary fulfillment of that by having the zombie apocalypse occur.
And then Mike Lacona loses his job because he starts realizing it couldn't have happened.
Like, you know what I mean?
So he's like, God, that doesn't look like history.
Well, what's Matthew doing then?
Anyway, that was a ramble of mine.
Paul, any thoughts?
Yeah, just again, on the ending of Mark, you know, the original ending is just, it's not even Jesus.
An angel tells two women that Jesus has risen, and then they tell them the one because they're afraid.
And that's the end.
And could Mark have written that ending if stories of Jesus appearing in the flesh to people were already commonplace?
It's hard for me to understand that.
Yeah, that feels very strange, right?
That's an interesting observation.
Yeah.
There's a lot, I think, that the documentary touches on, but it's really genius, the way that it was put together in many ways.
As you said, Kip, you feel that there could have been a little bit more nuance in the sacrifice, the human sacrifice section, I'm sure.
But it was still brilliant how it was painted.
You know, there's a lot of things.
I mean, scholars are going to look at this.
And well, yeah, many people, as we can see, you know, many of our apologist friends have looked at this and poked holes and all sorts of things.
But that's just the nature of what this is, right?
I can look at this and say, I would have done this differently.
I would have said a heavier emphasis on this.
I would have made this more clear or, you know, provided more nuance to this or that.
But in the end, there's only so much you can do, right?
Right.
And I think the thing that I love about what Satan's Guide has done, I think it's really quite brilliantly identified and targeted.
And targeted its audience.
I think it's constructed a compelling story.
And I think it's gotten most of it right.
That's pretty great in my books.
I thought it was great.
Paul, did you think that was a, did you watch the whole thing?
Oh yeah, I've watched it twice now.
Many times.
It kind of hits all the big topics that you discover when you first start taking Bible scholarship seriously, right?
And I'm glad it starts with the misconception of Satan right from the beginning because it's like any Jew will tell you that Satan's not the big bag boogeyman of the Old Testament the way Christians often misunderstand him.
So I think that's a good one.
And I don't know if apologists really argue with that one.
Right.
It's so easy to defend.
Have you seen any?
I know that you had to have watched several of these.
Dr. Kill has such a threshold for listening to various critics of us critics and like can actually tolerate.
I'll have to call him like, all right, so give me the skinny on it.
I don't have two hours to scratch my head and like miserably.
Yeah, it's a gift, man.
You have a gift.
But like, have any of them taken issue with that initial?
That's why my title is triggering.
Satan was right.
Well, notice in Christian context, those are some fighting words that I just said and I'm going to get hexed for this and God's going to damn me in the whole night.
And it's like, well, when I say Satan, I'm speaking about the actor, the cartoon character in the documentary.
But then even then, I'm not even talking about this Christian interpretation of Satan.
I'm going with the flow of the documentary and saying actually just this adversary, like a lawyer, so to speak, and oftentimes doing God's bidding, if anything.
You know, I've seen a number of, I've seen a number of comments from apologists and from evangelical Christians who are not fans of the documentary on this specific point.
And I think, like, I think it's a brilliant way of telling the story, but I also have noticed that, you know, people have just kind of shut their minds off, right?
As soon as they see, well, it's Satan, he is the father of lies.
And all these things he's telling me, of course, they're lies.
I already hate critical scholarship.
Of course, Satan's going to present that to me and tell me it's the truth.
Right.
So, you know, but I just, I don't know, like, how do you, if you're not generating that kind of consistent criticism and people aren't, you know, pulling their hair out and losing their minds at what you've done.
You know, or I should say if this is happening, that probably means that you've succeeded in some respect, right?
I guess it depends on the person who might be viewing, because for me, I was the type of Christian, complete transparency, people like Aaron Raw, who went to Satanist conventions, who dressed up in dark Dracula looking type of outfits, I'll say.
They were the last guys I would have ever even listened to.
And if I did, it was to see them debate someone I hoped I cheered for the Christian.
They would never have convinced me.
And so this kind of title, Satan's Guide, would have immediately, the kind of fundamentalist I was, just shut off.
My brain would not even tolerate going down that path.
And I suspect you would be the same.
I don't know.
Who me?
You or Paul?
Yeah, no, I think that's fair.
And I think that explains the reaction of a lot of people.
My friend and colleague, Dr. Jennifer Bird, when we did this, we're in the process of reviewing it.
Well, not Satan's Guide, but Mike Winger's response to Satan's Guide over on my channel.
We made a point of saying that, and I think she's right here.
The people who I think probably benefit from this documentary and who will appreciate it the most are those people who are already on their way down this road to deconstruction.
And people who take the critical study of the Bible seriously.
Interesting.
Paul?
Yeah, I was going to ask what you guys think about the tone of the video.
I was talking to a friend of mine and was surprised that his reaction was quite negative, even though he's very similar in his deconstruction to us, I think.
Interesting.
It's about having Satan as presenter and having this snarky, sarcastic tone throughout.
It's very entertaining, but at the same time, it's going to turn off a lot of people that aren't ready to go deep on these issues.
I think you're right about that.
When you watch Mike Winger's review of the documentary, he spends some time talking about just listen to the mockery, listen to the way that they denigrate the Bible.
And I'm, you know, it's hard because I already, I think for a long, long time while I was still a very serious Christian and learning about critical scholarship,
maybe one of the things that helped me survive, but also I think was super beneficial just for my own development, was developing a sense of humor about the texts, right?
I think for a lot of people, they're just incapable of doing that in large part because of this high commitment.
This commitment to these ideas about the Bible being God's word and inerrancy and soloscripture and all of this.
But man, it's sad because the Bible can be really funny too.
And I think this, you know, a film like this also helps to, helps to pull out and tease, you know, some of the things about the literature that's legitimately funny.
I was going to say the same and I just want to make my observation, which might be different, obviously, than your friends.
I am glad a video like this is hammering it hard like this.
And yes, including mockery.
And I'll say why.
If one of the most famous, one of the most famous ancient satirists in the world named Lucian, he in a very, very clever way would
sophisticatedly mock and scoff some of the superstitions of the time that were sacred and held as true and whatnot.
You need a little bit of both.
You need a soft pitch and you sometimes need to just lay it out there and say, come on.
If we had a living, a living religion based on the Greek mythology today, where it's active and such, we could probably see.
We probably see several people doing exactly what this documentary is doing based on Heracles or Zeus coming down and raping the whole nine.
Like crazy stuff that's like documented within it, because we see that in the Christian authors of the first century.
They are mocking the pagans or at least their worldview by pointing out how immoral their gods were, how bad their people.
Oh, well, look, you can do that.
You can dish out.
Can you take because your own worldview, your own literature is doing this very thing.
And so Christians throughout history did this to the Greeks, the Romans, and any other various types of groups that have gone in history.
And I think it broke down a lot of people, plus there was by the sword, of course, conversions.
But I just think that we need a little satire and this may not be for everybody.
But I loved the reverse psychology because in it, here's the interesting part.
And my observation is the bad guy was right in my observation, more than not, obviously.
And the good guy being Jesus, the character is trying to kind of be on the side of these people who are going to the seminaries and teaching at the churches.
They're not telling you the full story.
And their excuses, while they're not these scholars are wrong and they're biased scholars and they have propaganda and they're not accurate with the word, the God's word, Mike Winger, for example, how he treats that.
No, they're not even in church talking about this in any way.
They're avoiding communicating what is being taught there because they're finding ways, I think, to keep an audience as the intro to this video talks about with Hector Avalos.
By the way, last comment is and I'll shut up is Hector Avalos was died a few weeks after the first time I ever got to email him about possibly interviewing him on MythVision.
And he wrote me back and said, I wish I could speak.
I can't talk anymore.
The cancer has taken over my throat, but I would love to have joined you on your journey and then part of MythVision, but I won't be alive for much longer.
And I wish he was because that guy was really smart and very gentle.
Indeed.
I guess I'll I think we should probably get get to the super chest, but I'll just say one one more thing on that point is that and you raise an important point.
One of the things that biblical scholars are doing on a regular basis and one of the things that I particular I in particular really enjoy about looking at the text is is the subversive nature of them.
Where because so much of this literature was produced from places of power and influence and had their own agendas at work.
It's super fun.
Just just pulling back the curtain, right?
Looking behind and seeing and seeing what's there.
And that's what we often discover is that when you carefully comb through these texts and understand where they came from and what they're doing, you start to see that.
Wow, maybe the good guys really weren't the good guys in the end at all.
Maybe like there's this whole other world behind the text that we just don't know anything about, but we have to sort of tease out through the way the Bible presents people like the Canaanites.
The people of the land who were practicing their own local folk religions that Josiah was determined to end.
There's all these counter narratives and half the fun of this is discovering those and seeing those and figuring out how this stuff all fits together.
Paul, you want me to go ahead and hit these supers?
Go ahead.
Awesome.
Seth of Hala, thanks for super chatting.
Could it be Satan?
Best church lady voice.
Thank you so much, Seth.
Is it Hammond?
Forgive me if Hammond.
I probably butchered that.
Thank you so much for the super chat.
What do Greeks call their cars?
Gerasion station?
Gerasion station.
I'm not sure I get it, but I'll laugh.
I don't even get this one either.
And so God said to Pharaoh.
Wallo.
Wallolo.
Wallolo.
It's like a taunting noise.
Thank you so much.
Seth is back again.
Rabbi Singer recently asserted ancient Hebrews were part of the Phoenicians purple people.
Archaeology evidence for this.
I think Phoenicians and Canaanites are the same.
It's just one.
Purple was an old etymology for Canaanite, but I don't think it's really held these days.
Okay.
Interesting.
Thank you so much.
Discovering ancient history with Pat Lohinger.
Find and replace your right as the winning nation.
I think this is back when...
Yeah, that's what the...
Yeah, that's a good summary of what's happening in the...
Sorry, the conquest narratives and the development of this national idea, right?
Over and against the Canaanites.
Right.
It's a foundation myth of constructing the history of your nation and all that.
Exactly.
Pat Lohinger again.
Thank you to the Super Chat.
Genealogies were important for diplomatic reasons as well.
First Maccabees 12, 20 through 23 is a perfect example.
Jews and Spartans both descended from Abraham.
Great point, my friend.
Just to clarify what Pat's getting at here at the time when a text like First Maccabees
was written, it was more important for the leaders, the rulers in the Hasmonean kingdom
to develop a closer relationship, a stronger tie to the Spartan myth.
So genealogies serve these sorts of purposes.
Yeah, well put.
Chris Moore, probably a subject for another day.
Any reason as to why we don't have knowledge of world history before the collapse of the Bronze Age?
Well, actually, I would say this is one of the things.
We actually have quite a bit of information about what was going on in the 200 or 300 years
leading up to the Bronze Age collapse.
And that's really why so many scholars started to focus on what on Earth happened,
because you had all this information, then all of a sudden things kind of went crazy
and there's this vacuum.
So no, I mean, it's certainly there.
And the Egyptians have piles and piles of text which provide us information about it.
So do the Hittites.
Virtually all of our Hittite literature comes from this period just prior to the Bronze Age collapse.
So, yeah, it's certainly there.
Thank you so much.
Feel free to chime in anytime, Paul.
I don't want to cut you off.
Big boy.
Greetings, Satan's scholars.
Does the Senecharibs' annals count as valid independent corroboration for Hezekiah's war?
I would say certainly independent corroboration of the conflict that occur.
But as with the biblical account, you have to also read Senecharib's recounting of the same events with a caraphali, right?
But there's certainly enough there that you can make sense of a number of things that occur within the biblical text.
I'm not entirely sure if that's where you were going with the question, big boy.
But yeah, I certainly think it works.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Dause, Dava, thank you for the super chat.
Bernard B was Daniel 12, 9, used to explain why nobody knew about these prophecies before.
I don't know it offhand.
Are you looking it up?
Oh, I see.
When the angel says, go your way, Daniel, for the words are to remain secret and sealed until the time of the end.
I think that's a fairly common trope in apocalyptic literature where the message is sealed to the end.
So you're just now finding out about it.
I think this is interesting to point out, right?
When approximately does this author think Daniel is writing?
In the Babylonian transition into Persia, correct?
Like 500-ish BCE.
So we're dealing with from the 500 BCE, and I want people to travel with me for a second about the whole failed apocalypse thing that I was talking about.
500 BCE, let's just say roughly 600 years between that and Jesus.
I'm going to say five to 600 years of time really to the second century BCE.
So we're really talking 490 years, which is why he brings up 490.
But he's talking about until the end, right?
Then the book of Revelation comes up.
And in the last chapter of Revelation, he says, seal up the words of the prophecy of this book for the time is...
Oh, no, do not.
Sorry. He says, don't sell up.
So Daniel saying, sell up the time, you know, till the end.
Revelation saying, don't sell it up.
The time is near.
So we got a...
We have Revelation saying things are about to happen.
And if Daniel's saying, seal it up, or the angels telling Daniel, seal it up, because it's the end is a little ways off, right?
It's 490 years.
I'm saying we're 2,000 years removed from Revelation.
And he's saying the time is soon.
I mean, it had to have happened or it failed.
And this is the point about the language of the New Testament.
Why it had to have failed unless you want to spiritualize and do all sorts of the crazy interpretations to make it fulfilled as full preterist do.
Or partial preterist in some ways, but mainly full preterist.
Do you get what I'm trying to get out here?
Yeah.
Daniel says, seal it up 490 years.
Yeah.
It's a ways off.
Revelation says, don't sell it up.
The time is near.
We're 2,000 years removed.
Right. Yes.
No, I say, yeah, I know you're right.
Yeah, I get that.
Yeah.
No, that makes good sense.
And I think that, yeah, there's...
I think there's some traction there.
Yeah.
I think we're going to agree, but it dawned on me as I was still a Christian hearing this going, Daniel saying, seal it up.
Or the angel saying to Daniel, seal it up till the end, which means it's a ways off.
And he mentioned 490 years.
Revelation, this angel tells John, don't seal up the words.
The time is at hand soon.
He will not tarry.
He's about to come.
Well, if Daniel wants them to sell it up and that's 500 years, we're 2,000 years from Jesus.
Conclusions.
I think this kind of language too, it's a genre convention.
It builds excitement in the reader.
It's not always to be taken hyperliterally.
I get it, but that's in the opening of Revelation says the things written in, you know, you're going to document these things for they are going to happen soon.
Like these things you're documenting are supposed to happen soon.
And I just read Bart Ehrman's Apocalypse as well.
Like the book where he goes through the various apocalyptic literature and all of this, how it failed.
I thought it was quite convincing was already speaking a lot of stuff I knew.
But interesting stuff.
I never heard that he goes over as well.
And I just see that the beginning and end of Revelation telling you this sandwich of things repetitive in symbolic language often about things that were supposed to happen soon.
To Rome, that's, and of course, Jerusalem plays a part in Revelation 11.
But anyway, is the fine of an ugaritic parallel to Adam and Eve legit in German?
And there's a Wikipedia.
Yeah, I don't feel like I should know it and I don't.
So I'm sorry.
I haven't had the chance to look into this.
I'd love to look for stuff like that.
Like seeing those connections and stuff, especially with Mesopotamian literature.
As far as Joshua Bowen's documented some of this.
There's other scholars.
Hmm.
I like I said, it's it's it's not something that I I'm I'm unfortunately have have spent the time looking into, but I appreciate you sticking that on my on my radar.
And I will certainly take some time to look at this in the future.
Thank you.
Sorry.
HD Drake.
Thank you for the super sticker.
Michael Beverly.
Good to see Michael Beverly here.
Love you guys.
Got to go.
If y'all don't mind.
Could you give my stream with Dr.
Bert tomorrow, 1pm Central Standard Time, a plug or chatting about belief.
Love her talk with Derek and I'm following up on a few things I was curious about.
Nice.
It's his YouTube channel just called Michael Beverly.
It's just called Michael Beverly.
He's been he's he's just kind of he's just come across my radar recently.
He actually just became a patron of mine too.
But he he did a he did an interview with my Mike Lacona, which was really good.
And he did like a insane five and a half hour stream with Rob Rowe from Sentinel
apologetics and managed to stay awake through the whole thing.
So but he does.
Yeah, he does some things that are that are really good.
There's there's some stuff over there that I like.
So yes, everybody should check that out tomorrow.
And of course, Dr.
Jennifer Bert is amazing.
So like just go and and watch her.
Go watch her.
Go show support.
I put the link in the comment section.
I believe making sure.
Yes, right here.
I appreciate the super chat, Michael.
And I hope people will go subscribe and check out your stream with her.
Aaron Coulson in the Exodus story.
Why make it Egypt?
Even the present day.
What is the fascination with Egypt, Dr.
Kip?
What's the next episode of Diablo critics?
Diablo critics, Diablo critics is coming on March 17th, 11 o'clock Pacific
time and whatever that is in all the other time zones, we will be live.
And we're just going to we're just going to pick up with with where we left
off in Mike Winger's review of Satan's God to the Bible.
So but we'll finish it.
And then we're going to move on to something else for April.
As for the story, why make it Egypt?
I think that I mean, there's a couple of things at work here.
I think that there is legitimately some sort of historical cultural memory at
work here as we discussed a little bit.
I believe that the, you know, they're they're likely were people living in
the region who had experienced some sort of migration of some some kind out
of Egypt in the first place.
So there's that Egypt was still even though during most of the Iron Age,
the Assyrians were the dominant power in the region.
Egypt was still there.
And they were still a very at times an important ally, but also at times
with whom the people had had, you know, border, border conflicts, border.
So so there was still this ongoing interest there with Egypt.
And then I think by the time you get to.
Yeah, I think, yeah, that, but I think that's enough.
Right.
Like, I would, I would suggest that the time many of these stories started
to emerge, there was already some sort of historical connection to a
deliverance of some sort or an emergence of some sort out of out of the
kingdom of Egypt.
Paul, did you want to add a comment?
Because I could, I could lay something out and get your thoughts.
I mentioned it earlier, but keep said it.
Well, I would just mention that so much of the iconography of the
Israelite Jerusalem Kings, you know, has Egyptian iconography on it.
Scarab seals and all that stuff.
So obviously they felt the presence and influence of Egypt all throughout
the history of Israel.
There could have been so many reasons to want to associate themselves
with Egypt in one way or another, both positive and negative.
Yeah, and it makes me kind of wonder too about, I know that we're so
involved in like tackling apologists who want to nail it to the 15th
century and 12th century and do all these things to like really pin it
down.
And I kind of want to ignore that swipe it to the side and just say,
could there have been a memory of the Hixos kind of expulsion that played
in some traumatic historical word of mouth thing in which Israelites
adopt that theme in some way, spin it into their own message?
I don't know.
I mean, there's no way to know it didn't, right?
So is Yon Osman, who recently passed away, touching on something here?
Could it be that the Hixos narrative or not narrative, but what
happened with the Hixos still had word of mouth storytelling passing
on to where these guys in the highlands of Canaan ended up adopting
it as their own story.
And yes, they also are influenced by Egypt and it had a powerful punch
narrative wise to forming their own people.
I mean, who really knows?
I mean, ultimately, but it's a fun guessing game in my opinion.
And yeah, and Egypt is exotic, by the way.
That's just another interesting thing to say.
Right.
Yeah, very exotic in the pyramids.
And it's not and this is something too that that is not like this isn't
just a modern thing.
The ancient people were like the ancient non-Egyptian people were also
fascinated by Egypt.
It just it was it was, you know, rightly.
It's one of the oldest, longest standing continuous civilizations, right?
By the time you get to the end of the Bronze Age.
So, yeah, this is how we know that their gods are real because, of course,
they would have lasted this long and clearly.
Thank you so much, Aaron.
Aaron Crawford.
So did Satan get a bad rap or not?
Are we talking about the biblical Satan here?
I would imagine this is about the show.
I would imagine, but I could be wrong.
I'm just guessing.
Here we are interpreting words.
What do you think?
Obviously, a Christian apologist would say.
Terrible.
It doesn't.
Right.
Yeah.
So, but I think, I mean, I'll just say, you know, if we're talking
about the biblical Satan, I would say got a bad rap.
I mean, mostly just because he's such a nobody in, you know, the Hebrew Bible.
Until you get to the New Testament and all of a sudden he's like
the consummate bad guy right now.
Thank you, Aaron.
So, just get for just doing your job.
Did you want to say something with that, Paul?
Not really, but just to add to there, you know, when Revelation really
makes Satan the bad guy, there's not enough Old Testament material to go on.
So, he played Satan with Leviathan, the old Canaanite.
There you go, right?
Yeah.
And if anyone wants to watch a video on Leviathan, I think, Kip, you touch on
this, but there's a documentary that Paul did recently on Leviathan.
Man, you got to watch that.
I'll try to share it in the comments so that you can go subscribe.
If you haven't already, what are you doing?
Awesome.
It's Bible's oldest creation story, of course, is the name of it.
Leviathan and Yahweh's conquest over the sea.
This is Paul's video, all 602 of you.
As far as I can tell, watching, please, I beg of you, click on it, go subscribe
to Paul and Kip.
I'm putting the link to Kip's channel, too.
I ask if there's any mods, please repost these while we're still live so people
will grab them, subscribe.
They're in the description of this video as well.
A couple more guys, and then I'll let you go.
Oh, sorry, did I get Marco?
Marco says, thanks for the cool stream.
Dr. Kip is my favorite.
Laugh out loud.
Sorry.
Thanks, Marco.
What the hell, Marco?
I don't blame him.
Thank you so much.
21st century Christian as a Hebrew Bible scholar, do you think that we'll ever see
an eclectic text of the Hebrew Bible in our lifetime, like Nessel Allen's New Testament?
I mean, I think that's what the Oxford Hebrew Bible project is trying to do if I'm not mistaken.
Maybe I am, but I always assume that's sort of the goal of the Hebrew Bible project, but
I don't know.
Yeah, I've always kind of preferred just using standardized Masoretic Text, BHS,
just because it's easy.
Sorry, but yeah.
Easy path.
Thank you so much, 21st century.
And then Ronin of Stag, thank you for the super sticker, my friend.
I hope everybody's enjoyed the little hangout.
I was thinking of, for the future, doing a more extensive just watching the whole thing
and pausing along the way and commenting because there's so many nuggets in the documentary to like
discuss and pull out and go further on.
That's my problem.
I don't know if you relate, Paul and Kip, like, I'll watch Paula Gia do a video.
He'll start doing something with something and I'm like, yes, yes, yes.
And then I'm thinking of like five things that I could add.
But because in a video, you can only do so much at that moment.
There's so much you could add to it or things, ideas that give you that you didn't think about for a minute.
And you kind of want to do that.
I'm sure there's plenty in the documentary.
So shameless plug time.
This is where we absolutely show how selfish we are and that we do not give a hoot.
So we're going to speak our minds.
But what we have coming up, we did get one more popping in.
Serious question to Paul.
Is the smart fool the best mod?
Yes.
Because we're both moderators at the academic biblical subreddit.
But I will say the smart fool is at least the second best mod.
There you go.
Yeah.
Warmin to Mormon is pretty good too.
Thank you for the super chat.
I actually read, by the way, in case you're wondering the smart fool,
I think this is the same, the smart fool that we did responses with Dennis.
And I actually read your, your writing criticizing, at least trying to,
I'm not going to say criticizing, but you were trying to go in and see if Dennis's work was possible or not possible.
And I appreciate the fairness I think you dealt with,
even though I felt at times it was pedantic in my opinion.
It was still fun to read.
And I sent it to Dennis.
Dennis has several book projects he's working on right now.
And so I'm certain he probably hasn't read it.
But if he had, if he does, I'm hoping we can do a review and talk about it and like break apart.
I think like half of that one you wrote is like just addressing stuff like the language and could the author have known these things and would they have known these things and then how do we dive into that.
So it's off the top of my head.
I read it like three months ago or something when I finally went back on Reddit for one second.
I never go on.
Can I just put in an extra plug if you're into, if you use Reddit, the academic biblical subreddit is really good.
Lots of really smart scholars there.
And I think Bart Ehrman's even going to be their own March 7th Q&A.
Interesting.
Really cool.
Okay. Shameless plug guys.
So you just shamelessly plugged.
So let's shamelessly plug our way through this and then I'll get this last super chat here.
Dr. Kale, what do you have coming up other than murder?
So I'm going to go live again this week.
I think on Wednesday afternoon.
So it'll probably be Wednesday afternoon to discuss why apologists shouldn't make arguments from languages that they don't understand to make bad points they want to make.
Sounds like fun.
I'll be doing that.
And then I think that's, oh yeah, so I'll be doing that Wednesday on Thursday night as always.
Dr. Josh and I are doing our bi-weekly Hebrew reading stream, Kiriate Breit.
We just finished First Kings and it was a smashing good time.
We are moving on to the book of Jeremiah this Thursday, either chapter one or chapter 29.
But probably chapter one.
So there's that.
And then of course on March the 17th, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday, Sunday.
At 11 o'clock a.m. Pacific time, I will be joined by my good friends, Dr. Josh, Dr. Matt Monger, Dr. Jennifer Bird, Dr. Dan McClellan, and David McDonald for episode two of Diablo Critics.
We will finish our review of Mike Winger's review of Satan's Guide to the Bible.
And please come with your questions and we will answer them.
If I could just plug one other thing.
I mean, there's the course on MVP courses.
Please check it out.
I have a Patreon which helps me to continue doing this kind of thing.
In the moment right now, what I'm really trying to work on in earnest is to finish up the book that I am currently writing, which is based on the course, but massively expanded and I think in many ways improved.
I have actually set up a direct donation link that you can click on.
If you don't want to donate, if you don't want to join the Patreon or buy the course, but you want to support my work, you can do so directly.
So Derek has that link and he put it in the video description.
And that's so that I can keep writing and get this thing done soon, right?
Like a days as a thousand years or like.
Ideally, I'd like to get it done inside of the next two or three months.
I know I had originally said March, but it's March now and I'm like half done.
Okay, so we can actually take you at your word when you say soon.
Okay, I just wanted to make sure that you did better than the biblical authors when you said soon what you meant.
Paul, tell us.
Yeah, and all that's in the description.
What do you got coming up my friend?
Well, I don't do live streams, so I don't have a lot to plug.
My next video will be out soonish about the golden calf stories in the Bible and that's a really tough one to untangle.
Yeah.
I love that story.
I can't wait to see how you do it.
Just wait, Kip, wait till you see some of his video.
Me too.
The script was kicking my butt.
Yeah.
Well, I really appreciate you, Paul.
And of course, Kip, I thank both of you and then Dr. Joshua Bowen before Kent stole them away from us.
I don't blame them.
It's East Coast, so it's pretty late over there.
Thank you for everybody who's tuned in.
If you're interested in seeing a long actually going through the documentary type of one that would probably be four or five hour long stream because it's hour and a half just the documentary itself and the pauses to comment.
Let us know.
Comment down below if you've gotten this far that you'd be interested in something like like a hangout and watching the documentary from start to finish because there's much, much more we did not cover that is discussed in it.
Any final words from you gentlemen?
No, did you want to, did you want to do that last, the last super chat before we go?
Thank you.
Thank you for catching that.
So she's one of my, she's one of my patrons and she's a, she's a big supporter of mine too.
So, um, yeah, I'll just read it.
Dr. Kip, would you please explain again about Moloch not being a God and some kind of sacrifice.
Uh, Jehovah's Witnesses and some ex Jehovah's Witnesses like to think otherwise.
Thank you.
So importantly, I need to point out that this is not universally held by scholars.
I don't know if this is a majority or a minority opinion, but I think this is an idea that certainly, um, if it's not already the dominant view is gaining a lot of traction.
So basically we have these a handful of these texts throughout the Hebrew Bible.
It's mentioned in Leviticus in particular.
It's mentioned by Jeremiah is a handful of other places about, you know, how the sons of Israel, how the people should not offer it.
It says you shall not, you know, you shall not offer your sons or make them pass through the fires.
Uh, Le Moloch or as is often translated to Moloch.
It was long assumed that this was a specific type of offering this this child sacrifice to a specific deity named Moloch.
Problematically, there is no evidence on the ground anywhere for a deity of this name named Moloch.
Uh, the other side of this, uh, uh, this situation is that there are also a handful of texts from outside the Hebrew Bible from around the ancient nearest in particular, I think.
I think it's at, uh, you Garrett and in, um, I, I'm probably going to get this wrong.
There's, there's, there's Akkadian texts.
Let me just say that, uh, where this exact same term is used Moloch.
However, and it, and it's, it's used in the same way as what we see in the biblical texts.
Um, and, uh, associated with this ritual of, uh, of child sacrifice.
So the natural conclusion to draw from this is that it's just the same thing that's taken place in the biblical text and that the term Le Moloch is actually Le Moloch.
It's actually describing a type of offering, uh, very similar to like a, a Menchah or a Salam, uh, a Salamim or, um, you know, some of these types of sacrifice that, uh, we see in some of the ancient Israelite literature.
One of the distinctions that I make in my course about Israelite religion when talking about sacrifice is that there's, there's two different things going on.
Uh, you have in terms of sacrifice, you have elements.
So that's whether you're offering grains or wine or an animal or a human being.
So on the one hand, you have elements, but then you also have types of sacrifice.
Be that, like I said, a peace offering or a Thanksgiving offering or the Pesach is a type of sacrifice, right?
So different types of sacrifices can use different types of elements.
So I think that's what we have going on here where the Le Moloch is a type of sacrifice and specifically it, it seems to, you know, just use this element of, uh, of children.
All right.
There you go.
Thank you.
I appreciate that.
And then, uh, Mr. Monster becoming, uh, 21 months as a member of Midfusion.
This was a fun stream.
Hell Satan.
Thank you so much for that.
I appreciate the love everybody.
I really appreciate it.
And, uh, looking forward to possibly doing the long stream.
Don't go anywhere, gentlemen.
And, uh,
