Science and religion are just best buds and the Bible is clearly accurate in anything scientific.
Am I right? Well, of course, that's been the tradition that we've been knowing and growing
up and have been completely accepting through media for the last several thousand years.
No reason to question that. Okay. There is obviously also the narrative that they are
completely at loggerheads and every single time they ever come together, it's just absolute chaos.
It's constantly Yahweh versus Leviathan every single time, every single take and Yahweh doesn't
always win. Leviathan doesn't always win. But that's not the reality either. There are too many
examples of scientists who are extremely good scientists, but also are religious.
And of course, there are plenty of examples of people who aren't theistic at all, but still believe
all sorts of crazy stuff that's against the science anyways. So it's not any perfect thing
there. And frankly, also most of the stuff that scientists say or do doesn't really have any
religious implications per se. When scientists figured out that water is constituent of two parts
hydrogen, one part oxygen, it wasn't a heresy. It wasn't something to register. It's only in
very particular cases where there might even potentially be a conflict. And often a religious
person will even say that religion doesn't have anything to say about some scientific topic.
Anyways, we're talking about completely different subject matter. We're talking about
what will happen in the afterlife, how does salvation work? What is good or bad in which
allegedly science doesn't have anything to say about or inform us about in any deeper sense.
Science might tell us that if I do shoot the person, here's how quickly they'll bleed out,
but it won't tell me it was wrong to shoot out the person. Somehow religion will provide the
answers to that. So with that sort of preamble, I also want to push back against the idea that
there isn't actually any conflict because that seems to also come up a lot in the recent scholarship
trying to argue that all the cases of conflict between science and religion were not necessary,
that there isn't any necessary points of conflict. And where they've happened is just
being kind of these weird political phenomena. So like when we look at say young earth creationists,
in many ways, they're a weird recent phenomenon. If you went back to the year 1900, or about,
you know, 40 years after Darwin publishes his big book on evolution, or well after the time of
George Lyle about deep time, most educated Christians didn't really see any issue with
the antiquity of the earth, the common ancestry of creatures, they might have said something
special about humans. But there was a lot of general acceptance of that. The explosion of
young earth creationism has been, in many ways, a strange and very American phenomenon. And so
it would be unwise to say, because there are young earth creationists, religion is always at
loggerheads, it's this weird political modernist machination. And in many ways, it's kind of
the root of a larger problem that people are having with modernism. Now,
then you have to ask the question, well, why was religion having a problem with modernism?
The big issue that especially in the US was happening, much bigger than the evolution issue,
was about higher criticism of the Bible. When the first theologian coming to Union
Theological Seminary in New York, he had gotten himself well educated in the higher criticism
from the German schools, came back to the US and said, you know what, that whole Genesis story
thing is kind of myth. And, you know, the stories about Jesus are also, you know, highly exaggerated
things like that. This caused a huge firestorm and, you know, nearly got the guy permanently
excommunicated from the Presbyterian church. And, well, what was the problem there? It was
a much more scientific approach to the text. It wasn't, you know, the acceptance of the story
as being told. Now, as time has gone on, more and more often the theologians will say, well,
we now accept that, yeah, that Genesis is, you know, a product of its time with the
mythological trappings and cosmological trappings of the time it was written in, you know, very,
very roughly the fifth, sixth century DC, when it was, you know, finally compiled together after
the exile, you know, and I'm saying very, very approximately because I have no real sense of
how much antiquity the various stories had or how much editing happened after the exile
that's well beyond my pay grade right now. But the expert consensus that it's after the
Babylonian exile that Genesis gets together in the form, we generally know it in a hebraic form.
So you'd say it's a product of that time. And so the fact that it doesn't match with our
sensibilities of how to explain things. Well, that just, you know, because shows us the product of
the time. But again, it is the case that that time it comes from is also filled with all sorts of
superstitions that we also say is completely anti-scientific. We, if someone wants to come
and say I'm a worshiper of Ishtar and I praise the morning star when it rises because I am trying to
have more fertile harvest or, you know, have a better time with my wife because she's a love goddess,
we would say, okay, that's just really weird anti-scientific thinking. We actually know
how fertility works. We actually know that, you know, that's just a star in the sky. It's like,
well, we don't seem to then allow ourselves that same level of interpretive flexibility
if someone was a modern completely, you know, believing those old things. So why would someone
believe in the Hebrew scriptures and saying it has some sort of great import also
not get away with those sort of problems. So that's one thought. And the simple fact of the
matter is if we are trying to say that the messages of the Bible are coming from this great
transcendent source, why is he forced to communicate with humans not in simply a limited way? I can
understand that God can't completely reveal himself if he's completely incomprehensible to humans in
his true form. But why does he have to explain himself or his message in ways that we know are
wrong on their face of it? And we also have to note when we say are wrong in the face of it,
given our current knowledge, when the Old Testament talks about the earth being held
up on pillars or heavens being held up on pillars, that wasn't a metaphor to the person writing the
book of Job or Genesis or any of the other Old Testament texts. That was literally how people
thought things were. So if God is saying this, but it's a metaphor, who knew it was a metaphor back
then, we would call that then very bad communication. So if you are trying to read it metaphorically,
are you actually undermining what the original intentions of those original authors were?
Because one way or another, the actual authors were the ones who actually held the pen or the
stylus, whichever way that they were writing it at that time.
If we are going to try to treat the Bible as human literature, then science is coming in and
saying all right, then we have to treat it as the way literature is normally produced and how
is literature normally produced? Not with a bunch of angels and demons whispering into our ears,
it's the machinations of what humans do. So that's already a point where I see
saying if we're applying scientific thinking to the Bible, it is forcing religion to change,
to match with that. If that weren't the case, then I don't think there would have been any
major consternation about higher criticism of the Bible, but that's been the history when
David Strauss in the 1830s publishes this giant book on the life of Jesus critically
examined and he uses the M word for Jesus and the stories of Jesus, mythos. He lost his job,
he was hounded, he was attacked and that was because he was undermining what was so widely
believed and I don't think if you went back a thousand years or 1500 years you would have found
other theologians saying, oh yeah, the stories we believe about Jesus, yeah, that's just nice
useful fiction. Don't they really believe that Jesus raised the Lazarus from the dead, he himself
rose from that, he cured the sick and the lame and he's going to come back on a cloud with glory
and with the entire angelic forces. It's only because those beliefs have forced to change,
are we now saying there's no conflict? Which is another way of saying science and religion fought,
science won and the boundaries were redrawn. To say that there's now not a conflict on that
point after the boundaries have been redrawn is a weird thing to say, like right now we've got the
war going on in Russian Ukraine. If at the end of that Russia takes territory from Ukraine at the
end, are we going to say now the two countries were always at peace? I'm sorry. If you don't
pay attention to history then, just because the current borders they're not shooting over anymore
doesn't mean five minutes ago they were or they might start shooting again. I'm thinking about
what you said and there seems to be a current battle, not literal but in a sense literal and
what I mean is is apologists online are battling the critical scholars that are out here pointing
out flaws and errors and contradictions and manuscript differences and and did Lukaks really
even know who Paul was, were they really traveling companions when they're so different? Oh no,
they're not so different and of course they're trying I think to hold on to the last few threads
of the Bible being factual, historical, reliable, eyewitness testimonies, the whole nine and we see
we see this battle happening but it seems science and critical method and things like that are
winning the day. Where do you see things going with this? Do you think it's just, do you think
everybody eventually is going to finally get it or is there always going to be a stronghold for
people who are just not going to accept because the data is not good enough, maybe the New Testament
is so open to interpretation or flexible, people can run off with whatever they want if they want
it bad enough? One way or another there definitely will be change and you will still have the diehards
who will say like you know every jot and tittle is 100% true even the parts that contradict the
other parts they're both completely 100% true but the majority of people are going to move or
they just whenever interested in the topic in the first place and so most of this stuff might be
just arguments happening in the ivory towers and they're just basically you know going in for their
worship services and they're not you know getting into the nitty gritty and worrying about
you know which textual tradition for acts are we going to be following? Should we be following the
western textual tradition or should we be looking at these other Byzantine texts? It's like these
aren't questions that the average person even knows about let alone you know gives a hoot about
unless they happen to have a pastor who just you know thumps on the stand and say only the
King James version because that's the version Jesus spoke. You know beyond those exceptions you
know from most people that the topic is you know as the term is academic. Now the question is where
is going to academia going to go? Again if I you know shoot back 200 years it was going to be pretty
rare to find a theologian that was seriously questioning the historicity of most of the
stories of the Old and New Testament. You know they might have said there's some weird things here
in there like you know how did Moses write about his own death but then they'll just explain it
well Joshua wrote that small part about the rest he's completely completely written by Moses and
that was acceptable for the longest time until you know people kept poking and prodding and
things weren't adding up and it's like well you know how is that they're like Noah is following
the laws of Abraham Isaac and Jacob before you know they're told about these sort of things all
these little little details or especially once you have more deistic people coming in and
really what I've seen in the history and I've been seeing this more as I've been studying the
history of explanations of the star Bethlehem story when the deus started coming in and started
saying hey all that miracle stuff has to go and look at all these miracle stories you have in the
Bible that's when like a lot of hay is being thrown a lot of argumentation a lot of vitriol
is flying because there was now that new conflict between the clockwork universe that was provided
by the workings of Newton's physics applied to the world and you look at Newton's physics hey
explains the whole world and explains it like basically a giant machine that you know that's
why it's called like the clockwork or mechanical universe it's just basically gears grinding away
to get the results we have it worked so beautifully for the solar system and astronomy
it seemed to also be working well when you fire cannonballs you know exactly we're going to land
about using the exact same physics that explains why mars goes around the sun etc well if that's
how the universe seems to work and god isn't doing any part of it then what's going on with all
these stories where god is coming in and you know really messing with mechanics that doesn't seem to
actually cohere with how things really seem to work so that was like the challenge that deus were
coming in um and at first the response for that was um well first god does miracles that's one
response but if you're a theologian who basically accepts the physics of the time okay god doesn't
do miracles so the stories that look miraculous oh oh oh you've just misinterpreted what's going on
or the disciples themselves were just you know pre-scientific thinkers so they misinterpreted
natural phenomenon the the most fun one from Heinrich Paulus he's writing in the 1830s and he's
basically um the epitome of all those previous works and he when i've gone back to read him
and cite all the things that he is coming from from like the last 50 years of research on these
things he has the idea that like well for example the story of jesus walking on water here's what
really happened it was a dark and stormy night the disciples were on their boat and they got
completely lost in the fog they didn't even realize that that they actually had crashed into the shore
and were stuck there they thought they were still on the middle of the sea of galley so when jesus
comes walking up in the morning when um you know the storm is finally calmed and he is on the beach
shore they think they're on the middle of the water like oh lord he's walking on water it was just
a total mistake cute guys and now just imagine that process for every single miracle the new
testament including the resurrection like the swoon hypothesis that jesus survived the crucifixion
that was originally an apologetic to save christianity not a um atheistic attack strangely enough
even though it's now completely reversed um uh it's uh usage is now but then eventually uh Levi's
uh not Levi Strauss um David Friedrich Strauss comes along and basically says hey those things
don't actually match the story the miracles don't even actually make much sense when you really think
about it and it's like realize well if we actually compare this to other literature at the time or
biblical tropes and you realize oh uh this is just storytelling uh this is this is how people you
know spin a yarn and then of course finally people now accept that that's what's going on at least
for the most part for the bible there are questions well where are the kernels of truth and people come
to different conclusions there um i come to there being um almost no corn in the uh the gospel
accounts but uh that might we just say for a separate session thank you
you
