The conflict between science and religion.
Our in Raw joins me today on this show and we rabbit-troll into a variety of different topics.
We're going to discuss the biblical narrative, of course, Genesis, Noah.
Talk about some of these stories in the way they've been understood by most.
The majority of people take this as an actual creation account.
Of course, there's arguments over what the day means.
A day is a thousand years or this and that.
In early church fathers had variations, etc.
The Jews have a different idea of how they view it.
Our in Raw actually talks about the issues with ancient religion and modern religion
against this scientific approach.
The fact that we as humans inherently have the moral intrinsic values
and that it's from a humanist standpoint that these things come.
We go into a variety of different topics, of course, during this podcast,
but it was a fun hangout with Our in Raw.
Make sure you guys check out his Patreon.
Help support us here at MythVision, too.
We have a Patreon.
This is what we're trying to do to grow and keep bringing this content out there.
I appreciate everybody.
Make sure you guys don't forget to subscribe and hit that bell.
Like this video and comment your thoughts down below.
If you guys want to see an upcoming show again with Our in Raw,
give me some ideas of things you would think would be interesting.
This helps the channel grow when you guys do those things I ask.
Hit me up on the Patreon, hit him up on the Patreon, check out the show.
We are MythVision.
Today, I have Satan himself incarnate joining us.
Oh, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
The fallen angel of the Lord.
That's a polite way of referencing.
No, I'm just kidding.
What's up, brother?
How you doing?
I am recovering nicely.
I just spent three weeks in the bush of South Africa
and going out every day for like 10 to 12 hours a day,
carrying a backpack and 40 degree weather.
Yeah, and it's a little hard to get back into the comfort zone a bit.
What exactly were you doing again?
We were hunting for fossils of Permian therapsids,
which was a unique experience in my life.
To go into an area where we know this is all Permian exposure,
so what that means is that in the geologic period,
or several geologic periods and in different places,
the erosional features will have gone down different depths
while they continue deposition somewhere else.
So that in only a few places in the world,
like in West Texas, in Russia, and in South Africa,
we have Permian rock exposed.
This is a time before the dinosaurs.
Wow.
For me, it's a very interesting time because we have terrestrial animals,
but they're not dinosaurs.
Some of them are big and weird looking and everything,
and they have a complete ecosystem with all these different animals
that they replace like the buffalo or the deer or hippopotamus and gophers.
We have animals that fill that sort of a niche,
but they're completely different than what you would expect,
and most of them are not reptiles in the classic sense.
They are something between reptile and mammal in a manner of speaking,
and it's bizarre.
The gradations between what we traditionally used to consider as reptiles
and what we now understand to be mammals is a huge gradation.
There's like 20 different steps or intermediary stages,
and they all exist in the Permian.
Wow.
I have very little knowledge on this,
but I think it's funny to bring this up.
I don't know if you've heard of godless engineer John Gleason.
He's on the mythicist side and everything,
and he's a buddy of mine.
He debated Ken, was it Ken Ham?
Who's the guy who's the fundamentalist Christian?
Well, I'm sure he didn't debate Ken Ham.
It wasn't Ken Ham.
Ken Ham protects his reputation very closely.
He said he refused to debate me,
insisting that he would only debate someone who holds a PhD
because they want to pull themselves up by somebody else's bootstraps.
And then so P. Z. Myers said he would throw in his PhD into the ring
on one condition that I remain in the debate as his partner,
and that's when they cut all communication off,
because Ken Ham was not going to face me, no matter what.
And then four months, I think it was later,
Ham found a replacement for me who also did not have a PhD,
but he had a TV show, and so he debated Bill Nye, the science guy.
I see.
I see.
Yeah.
So who you are probably talking about is Cunt Hovind.
Cunt Hovind.
Oh, it's pronounced Kent.
I said that.
Oh, you said Cunt Hovind.
Oh, my bad.
Yeah, the other way to pronounce that is inmate number 06206.
I can't believe I forgot his number.
Oh, well.
Yeah, no, it's funny.
You see the intro song to John Gleason's Lives.
It's the funniest thing in the world.
He's debating Cunt Hovind, and Cunt's like,
Welles have a 15-foot penis.
And then he's like, what was that, Cunt?
It broke out.
And he goes, it didn't break out.
Welles have a 15-foot penis.
Are you a pervert or something?
So you have this mammal-like fish, if you will, here-ish type thing.
Well is an example.
But anyway, I just think it's funny because we're going to talk about genesis in this.
I just got to clarify that the pedid in me requires.
Because I was a little kid, I encountered grown people who thought that whales were fish.
Right.
So I just want to specify whales are mammals?
Right, right, right.
Yeah, and they're not a transition to fish.
Okay, so and then this is outside of my expertise,
which you, from what I understand, everyone who wants to hear what you have to say
that really knows your expertise is going to be in the field of science
and understanding some of these things here.
You do a lot of that on your channel, at least.
I see a lot.
Okay, well, I'm a science communicator.
I hesitate to call myself an expert in anything,
except maybe the conflict between science and the pseudoscience we know of as creationism
and other sorts of reality denial like flatter's belief and that sort of thing.
So then this question is important.
I would like to ask you because you do a lot of debate, a lot.
The genesis creation account, the way that people understand it varies.
Christians, depending on who or even Jews, how they view the genesis creation varies depending on the group.
And I think, and it's just my opinion, I want your thoughts on this
because I think we can probe into some of the issues with this book.
Because that's where it boils down to, is the book.
People want to change how they're viewing the book to protect,
you know, we got modern science that starts to debunk some of these other ideas we have.
Let's try to evolve our ideas in the book.
Do you find that these guys who come on to say,
oh, it's allegory, it's not literal creation,
or they try to find a different way to get around that this is an actual creation account
of the actual material world.
Do you have that encounter when you start to challenge people on genesis
and someone tries to come at you and go, this isn't an actual literal physical creation account?
Have you ever had that?
Well, I get lots of different excuses trying to justify how the fable is somehow still true.
One of the things that I find interesting about that is that people can't distinguish doctrine from deity.
So they want to imagine that these books that they know were written by people,
they want to say that they were inspired by or motivated by or taking dictation from God, right?
Well, I couldn't believe, when I believed in God,
I couldn't believe that the same divine designer who created DNA and everything else
would also be such a horrible author that he would write such a bad book.
There's no kind of morality in it.
You always hear, where do you get your morals from if you don't believe in a God?
And of course, our morals come from the fact that we depend on society.
We are a social animal, and so our interactions with society are necessary to our survival.
And consequently, our society then also needs us to interact productively.
This is where morality comes from.
If you're a selfish bastard and you go around killing and raping
and being a general dick to everybody, you will be ostracized from that society,
you will be removed from the gene pool either by being imprisoned, banished or killed.
So what you end up with is a very strong selective pressure
to produce a sense of compassion for family, friends and fellows.
So the people in our society who go out of their way to be altruistic,
who want to be supportive, who make good friends and allies,
who do the work that they're supposed to do and who care about other people,
these are the ones that are preferred by our natural selective systems.
And society is definitely putting that kind of a drive on.
So if you understand, a lot of religious people actually do accept that natural selection happens.
They understand the population mechanics enough to accept it.
Can't Hoven accepts that natural selection of this kind happens.
And so what you have with religion is that it tries to defy,
it tries to undermine, go against everything that we understand morality to be.
That's why it promotes all these horrible things, right?
That God tells you that you can't wear mixed cloth.
That's an abomination and you can't eat shellfish because that's an abomination.
And he can put down all these laws.
You will not do these things that make sense to you anymore.
But for whatever reason, he couldn't put any kind of an edict or any kind of restriction in on slavery.
Why the hell was God powerless in that decision?
So when you have what, like the books attributed to Moses who never existed,
say that you can execute people on the word of one or two witnesses if they don't believe.
So now here we have a reverse drive.
How long would it be once you get these theocrats in charge
and they're going to kill anybody who doesn't believe and now you've got a reverse,
not a reverse, but you have a natural selective pressure in the other direction.
So that if you express skepticism, if you are rational, then you will be identified and executed.
And so, of course, this is how we have religion proliferating today.
So it's funny how there's a war of tolerance and intolerance
and when religion is in the minority, they always want to be the peaceful ones.
They always see themselves as being the more moral and we should all just get along.
And they're not trying to be offensive. But once they have the upper hand,
then they will have an iron fist crushing everybody and under their rule.
That's not just Christianity or Islam. That's all of them.
I was in India a couple of years back and I was surprised to find out that everything I thought
I knew about Hindus was somewhat wrong because we always saw living in the United States,
my experience with Hindus has been primarily like in Los Angeles, you know,
back in the hippie days, you know, I go in the airports, you know, always have the Krishna guys out.
They're always peaceful, loving, vegetarian, pacifists.
But in India, they're militant and dangerous and extremely right-wing.
So there were, there were, when I was in India, there was a Muslim who was dragged out of his house
and murdered by a handful of Hindus because they thought he was eating beef.
Turned out he was eating chicken. And none of these people could be criminalized
because they were religiously motivated and the laws in India allow all kinds of heinous atrocities
if you're being motivated by your religion. And unfortunately, in Sharia countries,
there's all similar provisions, you know, where any kind of atrocity is okay if your religion allows you to do it.
So it's funny to me when people talk about, you know, where your morality comes from.
I get my morality from the same place that moral Christians do, you know, and moral Muslims.
They certainly don't get it from their fables. They get it from their humanity.
Thank you. Thank you. No, I 100%, a million percent with you on that.
In fact, I have a saying. I tell people who are in the box, you know, they're my friends.
There are people who are believers that are my friends. You have friends that are believers. I'm positive.
Not quite so much anymore.
I'm sure. I'm sure. But I mean, I'm sure you treat them the best you can.
But if they come at you with something, I know you, you don't play around.
I've seen the videos, but I have the evidence.
But I talked to these guys on their level and I expressed them.
Don't you find it kind of odd that Paul's quote in the fifth century BC pagan poet?
Don't you think it's kind of odd these pagans believed and practiced a lot of these things you're talking about in the New Testament much earlier than you guys are?
So what I'm making the point to try and free them from that box is that these religious views prior to them probably got them from someone prior to them.
And it's an evolution of man that we have adopted new concepts.
This is why slavery is non-existent today. And it's not thanks to Christianity and it's not thanks to Judaism.
It's not thanks to the Muslim faith.
It is literally thanks to, I think, the enlightenment and man being able to escape the box as we progressively evolve socially as a social creature and learning what works and doesn't work.
I bet you in a couple thousand years you probably would agree with me.
In a couple thousand years from now we'll look back if we're here and everything's still good and a virus doesn't wipe us out.
Or we don't bomb ourselves to death.
We'll probably look at the idea of imprisonment and solitary confinement as an absolute horrible method on how to rehabilitate humans.
We will think we were so anarchy, just so lost and non-scientific in this age.
Even though we were at the birth of these things, I think in a couple thousand years we'll look back and go,
we thought that was going to help them stop being animals like they were being?
Nice try.
So I'm with you 100%.
I don't like the comparison to being animals either because animals to large degree, there's not a 100%,
but to large degree animals don't practice unwarranted cruelty like humans do.
I mean, the most inhumane animal are the humains.
Wow.
Yeah, that's a trend.
Also, what you said a moment ago about slavery being non-existent, that is not the case.
It's still here.
No, I mean, I'm talking in the places that we have gotten out of what we've obviously seen in the past.
Well, it's a lot more hidden, but it still exists and it's taken on another more covert form.
I was in Dubai and I thought, well, this is like the Las Vegas of the Arab world, right?
Everything is glitzy and covered in gold plating and everything.
We're at a Shishka restaurant just counting Aventadors.
You can't just count Lamborghinis, there's too many of them, so we're just counting the Aventadors.
That's a fact.
What a glitzy, glamorous place.
But the fact is that a lot of Dubai was built by what is technically slave labor.
There are people who were brought over from India and they're contracted, but it qualifies as slavery.
Kuwait would be the same thing.
When I was in Kuwait, I was coming back from Afghanistan.
I did a contract.
I was actually a civilian contract at the time.
I was coming back through Kuwait and none of the Kuwaiti citizens work.
They're all paid by the government.
I don't know how much it is today, but being a Kuwaiti citizen and having that I am a Kuwaiti,
the government actually assists their people.
I think the oil over there keeps them steadily paid.
But they literally contract in foreigners from other countries to come and work and take care of their shops, everything.
And just not on the level Dubai, I can only imagine.
I've never been to Dubai, but I can only imagine driving down the road.
There's a Mustang, not just any Mustang, like the Cobras and then the Lamborghinis and the Ferraris.
And you're seeing model cars.
I don't even think they allow women to drive over there.
So it's just, there's always some hot rod down the street.
But anyway, we're rather trellin' from the Bible or from the libel.
The Genesis creation account causes a lot of people some trouble.
And I just want to mention something that some of these people want to allegorize it to a point where it's not literally a creation of the material things,
from the birds and the whole nine and the water separating from the land, etc., etc.
Man actually being the first man, being Adam.
They want to somehow, I think, protect the book and get away from that.
And these are guys that are willing to go to allegory just to save face.
Do you think they understood that?
I mean, this may not be a question necessarily for you, but maybe for a scholar, but on this stuff.
But with your interactions, it seems overwhelming.
They thought this was the actual creation of the first man and woman in their myth, of course.
Yeah, I have to get, I have the impression that the people who wrote the stories about Adam and Eve
never intended for these stories to be believed as literally true.
To my experience, and again, not a scholar, but I've read some other disturbingly similar stories that are much older
and which have the peripheral elements included, but not the God characters.
So just to measure, let's take off the most important elements.
Let's take the memorable elements of that story, or tropes, if you will, and we'll find those in earlier stories.
There's one where the god Enki trespasses on the garden of Inanna, the sacred garden of Inanna.
And he is eating the fruit in her garden, not just one fruit, not the forbidden fruit.
All the fruit that there is there is forbidden, and he's eating various different things in her garden.
And she discovers him there, and she curses him, and the immortal falls.
So now we have an immortal, a fallen immortal in the sacred garden having eaten forbidden fruit.
Then, maybe it was, maybe it was, was it in, I don't know, I think it was Ninersag.
So Ninersag then feels remorse for what she's done to Enki, and so she bears seven daughters each to heal one of his wounds.
So he has seven wounds, she bears seven daughters.
Now, obviously this is a, this is a parable, right?
We're, we're not talking about anybody that ever actually did any of this stuff, right?
Right.
So, but, but one of those daughters, Ninti, was the daughter of the rib, for she was meant to close the wound to his side.
And I remember reading that thinking, where have I heard that, that terminology before?
Good one.
Right?
Yeah.
So, I mean, there's, there's a lot of these elements that the God character's not there.
The original sin is not there.
It's not, you know, man being fooled by Eve is not there.
It's none of those, those details, none of the most important details from the Genesis story are there,
but we can see where the, where the story came from nonetheless.
And then there's another one called, I think his name is Adapa.
This is another pre-atom.
So, what do you get with the Genesis account?
And this is one of the things I wish I could impart to believers.
I mean, they think the Bible is the oldest book in the world.
They think that Genesis was the first book ever written.
I've talked to Christians who think that Christianity was the first religion.
It's, it blows their mind when I try to point out that, you know, Jesus, Jesus kind of pre-exists Christianity.
So, I mean, if there was a Jesus, then he started Christianity and didn't start before he existed.
They can't understand that.
Jesus was a rabbi. Jesus was Jewish.
I've met Christians who can't, who were outraged at the blasphemy of accusing Jesus of being Jewish.
What?
People have these bizarre ideas.
Yeah.
So, and they, they get these things, they don't understand that Christianity is based on Judaism
and they certainly don't understand that Judaism is based in part on Zoroastrianism.
You know, I've read, some scholars have said that Zoroastrianism lent more to the formation of rabbinic Judaism than any other influence.
And that's rabbinic Judaism because the previous version of Judaism was polytheistic.
So, and Christians don't understand this.
It's a very, it's a very binary kind of view.
I mean, if they have their book existed before everything else, every other religion is a bastardization of that,
which just try to imagine how that's even possible.
I mean, the Rig Veda is older than the Old Testament.
So how?
Yeah.
Like I said, we drank the Kool-Aid and everything turned red, you know, and it had to be red.
So I totally agree with you on, it's something, a mental block.
It's a purposeful mental block.
Yeah, there's two different thoughts here.
One is, and this is the way that I summarize it, I don't like to put things into either or categories.
Right.
But in this instance, to large degree, we have a choice between those who want to improve understanding, right?
So if you want to improve your understanding, it's not just that you want to understand the way things are,
but you want to improve your understanding, you want to understand things better.
But that means that your information has to be accurate and it has no value if it's not, right?
You do not want to be fooled because you want to improve your understanding.
So you will start scrutinizing where your information comes from.
And you will correct ideas that you find that were wrong.
I've had to do that many times.
I thought things were true, that I've been led to believe for whatever reason.
I've read sources that were deceitful or what have you, and come to find out that that's not the way.
Okay, so I've got to change my mind.
But then there's these other people who have a deep-seated emotional need to believe.
They don't want to understand.
They literally do not want to understand.
They just want to be told how it is and just accept what they're told and go about their day.
And these people are very incurious.
I was disturbed to meet people who, and most of my own family is like this.
I mean, they're very practical people, very pragmatic.
They're capable.
These are the kind of people, you drop them in a forest and they'll build a town.
And I mean that literally, they actually did that at one point.
So we've got people who are mechanics at craftsmen, carpenters, welders, you know, everything.
They're capable of whatever.
But we don't have intellectual conversations about anything that happened earlier than grandpa can remember.
And nobody's interested in anything further away than we've ever personally seen.
We're talking about people that, I know people who won't go to, won't visit New York or Miami
because those two places are both too foreign.
Too much multicultural, all that kind of stuff.
They're very insular, right?
They're very tribal.
You know, our high school is the best high school.
Our religion, of course, is the best religion.
Our race is the best race because that's always got to come up too.
Our state is the best.
Whatever pertains to us is just automatically the best because we happen by accident to be in it.
Yeah, cognitive dissonance, in my opinion, is natural to a lot of people.
I mean, I think we've all practiced it at some point, but I totally agree with you that there's two methods, in my opinion, that we're running into.
And there is the religious, and it doesn't just have to do with religion.
You can call it what you want, cognitive dissonance method that says,
I'm going to prove what my presupposition is going to be right no matter what, or the scientific method,
which is the one that's going to make us progress and become better in advance.
And that is saying, let me see what's wrong with everything, and then from there I'll know what's right.
It's the best way to test things, and so that's the scientific method,
and I'm now beginning to just barely scratch the surface in my own research and in life on this method
and using this method in biblical studies as well, and trying to understand and say,
you know, I want to be fair.
I think you and me would both agree snakes don't talk,
but what if, I don't want to give the authors not their due and say this wasn't written allegory and something else is meant here,
but what if they meant it was a real talking snake?
What if this author did? It's all up for interpretation.
And to me, it sounds like a creation account myth.
The authors trying to allegorize the actual creation of how we got here, I suspect.
I don't know.
That can cause problems, though.
Yeah.
One second.
Your dog?
All right, no, it was, somebody was making noise.
Anyway, like I said, I don't want to put people into either or categories,
but what we have is an overlap to what degree and what things do people do this.
I mean, you said we probably all practice this.
I can remember in my own life in thinking like I was confused that I liked to believe in a lot of different pseudoscience crap.
I mean, cryptozoology was just a tiny part of it.
I mean, I believe all kinds of woo in the 1970s in Los Angeles,
because, you know, everybody in Los Angeles believes all crazy stuff, you know?
I grew up with that.
I grew up in that mindset where everything is counterculture, hippie-woo kind of stuff.
But I remember thinking, why is it that when I read an actual history book or when I read a science book,
they never make any mention of Moses, of the flood, of Bigfoot, of extraterrestrials.
None of these time travel sequences that I read about in other books, none of these things.
None of these show up in the mainstream science.
Why is that?
And I remember thinking just for a moment, well, maybe I could just read the things that I know will reinforce what I already want to believe.
And I remember as soon as I said that to myself, I remember realizing the huge flaw in that,
that would mean deceiving myself.
And so I realized that no, it would be better to test to make sure that if I believe something that is incorrect,
I should correct that and improve.
But I know that a whole lot of other people have come to that same crossroads and gone the other way.
And some of them have admitted it to me.
This is a surprising thing.
I'm rambling a little bit.
No, no, no, please.
I mentioned that I've run into people who have no curiosity.
When I talked to them about a new scientific breakthrough that I think is fascinating,
where it has great promise, they don't care.
And this one person told me that if it doesn't directly reflect how much food is going to be on my table,
I don't want to know about it.
I just can't understand being that provincial, being that limited.
I know people that are great about talking about football,
and I can't understand why anybody would even, what the hell is the reward?
They're weird like me.
Everybody asks me, what's your team?
And I'm like, who are you going for?
I'm for them.
They don't understand.
They don't understand where I'm coming from.
I get it though.
I'm with you 100%.
I've changed.
It's very rare that you see people who will change that way.
But I have to admit that I failed at that.
And this gets into another issue, but being a recovering addict than I am,
because I was a heroin addict.
I was putting needles in my veins.
I was completely sucked into this addiction that I was in, right?
And not to get into that too much, but I do want to say that my ideology as a believer,
over and over and over, I failed it.
I couldn't meet the expectations.
I kept messing up.
I kept falling and thinking, am I God's chosen?
And on and on and on.
When I finally started to go, what if I'm wrong?
I actually started just serious personal question inside my own mind.
What if I'm wrong about this?
And I just started to listen to the other side.
I gave it a chance, man.
I said, let me just listen to these guys.
I remember listening to you when I was a believer and I said, that guy has demons.
You know what I mean?
This is years and years ago, but then I came to the other side and I said, what's this guy saying?
And I actually honestly allowed conversation.
I may not agree with everything you or anyone else says, but I can tell you what,
I hear what you're saying now and I understand your perception.
And to me, it makes more sense now than after while weighing both sides
than what it did when I was just on one side.
I gave it a shot and I asked anyone to do that who's watching this, but it's important.
And you bring up very good points here.
Very good points.
Now I had a question I wanted to get into NOAA, if you don't mind.
I just, local or universal, what's your take on it?
My understanding is, or my suspicion is that the NOAA's flood, the story that we have,
is roughly based on an actual event in 2900 B.C.
where I know that there were archaeologists that showed that in the city of Shura Pak
that there was this massive overflowing, I think of the Euphrates,
and that it divided two archaeological periods where all the pottery is different after that.
And the king in this case is actually mentioned in the Sumerian King List.
The Sumerian King List actually references this flood event.
It actually says there was this king, then this king, then this king, then this king,
and then the flood washed over, and then there was this king and this king.
So we know that there was a flood of the Euphrates,
and it was centered on the city of Shura Pak at about this time.
Now the account for then was that this guy, Zia Sudra,
was in a barge which was likely to be one of those round boats that you punt down the river
or you have oxen pull you from the side,
and my suspicion is that they're punting down,
and he supposedly had some livestock that he's taking to market.
So my impression of this is that the guy's got a handful of maybe wildebeest and goats,
and that's his menagerie that he's taking, and it's not like two of every kind,
but everything gets exaggerated too really.
Because when you talk about a flood story, and yeah, the world has lots of flood stories,
all the Christians will tell, well how do you account for all those flood stories around the world?
Have you read them? They're very different.
In one case, the flood is blood. The world is flooded by blood.
You think that's talking about the same event? I don't think so.
In another case, the world was flooded by beer.
That's a place you'd like to be though, you know?
Well, I've gotten very discerning taste on my beer.
I'm just kidding.
In one of the flood accounts, there's only one way to exaggerate a flood, right?
That's just to make it where it eventually covers everything.
So like the Greek legend of the flood, you know, the people that were survivors rested on hilltops.
Okay, well that's not exaggerating enough.
You need to flood the whole world. That's the only way to exaggerate this properly.
And then you have to account for where all the animals and people go.
And in one of these other flood legends, the only survivors were a man and a woman who,
a single man and a single woman, because nobody understands how genetic bottlenecks work,
and they survived by hiding inside of a closed clam shell.
Makes sense, you know?
And what about all the other animals?
The animals turned into fish.
And then when the flood dissipated, the fish turned back into cows and stuff.
That's funny. That's a reverse evolution idea.
Come on, man. No, I'm just teasing.
I love this stuff though, because there are people who literally will take a stand,
universal, worldwide, and then there's the local.
If it is going to have any reality, to me, it's local.
Could it be based off of the, I don't know, because it's so far back
to go back to the Ice Age melting, to suppose.
But, you know, when the sea levels rose to 400 feet above what they are now,
that's a different...
I hear that one a lot, and that does account for...
I mean, when you're talking about the Younger Dryas event,
where you go from like a record cold in a single generation,
or very quickly, you go into like almost normal temperatures for today.
Just like an abrupt, so like the Ice Age ended today.
And the result was, prior to that,
England, you could walk from France to Great Britain, or to Ireland.
These were walkable places.
And unfortunately, people had set up villages in what is now the strait between them.
So sea levels rose. We know it didn't happen immediately.
We didn't come in like a tsunami, but sea levels still rose nonetheless
within a few years, and those places are uninhabitable now.
They're underwater.
And this happened all over the world.
There was a lot of people that had stone structures that went under,
and we know like the flooding of the Black Sea was one of those dramatic events
and that was supposed to have been like 7,000 years ago,
where the Black Sea suddenly flooded all at once and killed everybody that was there.
But that's a separate event than the Younger Dryas, which was like 11,500 years ago.
So you would have had no kind of writing and no way of remembering this event,
not even through folklore.
Would this be remembered?
Because it wasn't an overnight calamity like this.
It's like, you know, the water keeps coming in closer every day until, you know what?
Our village is wet.
We've got to go.
We've got to go.
No, I'm going to stand here and build a boat.
No, I'm just kidding.
Yeah, you know, I remember when high tide wasn't quite so high.
Yeah, and that's how these things separated.
There was a number of flood events.
I mean, there was the Sea of Galilee, which I can't remember how it was, 1,500 years ago.
No, it had to be old.
I can't remember what the age was.
The Sea of Galilee also flooded in there.
So they found villages or remnants of villages in the bottom of that.
And one of the most dramatic ones was, of course, the flooding of the Black Sea.
And then the Mediterranean also was significantly lower than what it is now at one point.
And then there was kind of like an abrupt filling.
It was, it's not like there wasn't a Mediterranean there.
It's just that there wasn't that much of it.
And then there was this inundation to raise the sea level.
And that may be where a number of other, you know, floodless floodiness come from, but not that one.
Interesting.
Not the one having to do with Noah.
And a lot of, yeah, a lot of people have different flood legends, oddly enough, except for the Japanese,
even though they have a lot of floods.
And in the original account, or not in the original account,
in one of the accounts in the Mesopotamian lore, the flood comes in the form of a tsunami,
as opposed to a thunderstorm.
It's like this wall of water comes in and washes over everything,
which is the way, you know, that would be like the way a tsunami happens.
And then I saw this interesting thing where, geologically, there was an impact crater
that dates to roughly the same time.
Like, well, that's convenient.
So that, except that the funny thing is, is that, well, while geologists admit,
yeah, there was an impact crater and it's in the right place to have made a tsunami,
but nobody expects that that was an actual tsunami.
So, it's a bold claim.
And scientists are hesitant to make bold claims without substantial evidence.
Got it.
So, yeah, we have an impact crater.
It's in the right place at the right time to make a tsunami that would have hit this place,
but it would have done a whole lot more than just that.
So, I...
I wanted to throw something at you that I think you'd like.
This is interesting.
I had a Dr. Price on not too long ago about Genesis.
We were talking about the flood and Adam.
We first did Adam, then we went to Noah.
And he talked about Lot.
And he was mentioning how Lot, you remember when there was nobody left who inhabited the land
and he had no choice but to take his two daughters and the bedroom?
Oh, no, no, he didn't have... he had no consciousness of that.
Oh, that's right.
Because his daughters got him drunk.
He's innocent.
It's entirely... yeah, it's entirely their fault.
Yeah.
Because, you know, this happens.
This poor...
I mean, how drunk would you have to be to have sex with both of your daughters, unaware that they are your daughters?
This being the night that your wife died conveniently.
Right?
I don't remember.
Now, these are the same daughters that he tried to feed to a rape mob the day before?
You can have my daughters.
Yeah.
Isn't it funny that this is God's favorite person in the world?
I mean, I'm not laughing at the reality if this is real.
Like, I mean, obviously, if someone really did this, it's not a joke.
But what's funny about it is how someone can read that and buy that hook line and sinker
and not have, you know, the cognitive dissonance is so powerful
that it's not going to make you question for a second.
Because Dr. Price mentioned that what he thinks is going on here, the critical scholars thing,
there were multiple flood traditions that the Jews had, Israel had.
And Lot was one of them.
So Lot and Noah, according to critical scholars, have a lot in common here.
And this is why it talks about there was no one there to repopulate the earth.
It was almost like Lot was the last one.
Just like Noah is the last one.
They got to repopulate.
And I thought to myself, wasn't Abraham like a few miles that way?
Couldn't he have gone over there?
You know, it's really strange that he said, but they let the tradition stand.
And I even mentioned, I said, Dr. Bob, is it possible that Genesis one is a flood narrative as well?
Because you've got, you know, land separating from water.
And there's just kind of what appears to me like a flood type scenario.
It appears.
You've got the heavens above, the waters above, the waters below.
It sounds very much Noah-ish.
There's animals, there's waters, there's lands.
And it's almost like he's drying up the lands now, like the waters receding.
Sounds very floodlike.
He said, I never thought about that.
And it's like, that makes sense.
So it could be multiple, like traditions of flood myth, all kind of in this.
And they just created an interesting narrative out of these traditions.
My genealogy goes right back to Adam.
And then they created a story out of it.
And Lot could be in that narrative.
The only problem is, and I love what you said about, have my daughters,
is they're burning a fire rather than water.
And of course, it has nothing to do with homosexuality inside of them more.
That's so ridiculous.
But I wanted to mention one thing.
The whole women being blamed, just like Eve.
It is interesting that his daughters are to blame, not him.
In the narrative, even when you go later, it calls Lot righteous.
In the New Testament, Lot is the righteous one.
And it's like, okay, how righteous can you be?
Father of the year.
Yep, just like Noah ends up being a naked old drunk cursing his own kids.
There are some strong parallels there.
That the most righteous guy God could find would be a reprehensible fuck today.
I even heard, and you know, there's different speculations.
I like to hear different thoughts.
One of them, and the reason why Noah curses his son from what I heard,
there's the tradition that he might have slept with his dad while his dad was knocked out.
One person, you know, some people say.
Some people say he slept with his mother.
And according to the narrative is that Noah found out what he had done to his father's nakedness,
is that he slept with his own mom.
Or some, I can't even, I don't even know what to make of him.
Yeah, I can understand trying to interpret some things,
but I would not begin to speculate there.
If Noah got upset that somebody saw him naked, I'm satisfied that Noah got too drunk to keep his skirt on,
and they saw his junk, and now he blames everybody else.
Because that's the religious way, to blame everybody else for whatever you do wrong.
And this is the problem that I have.
This is the problem I have with Christianity.
And not so much Islam in this case, but Christianity is specifically about avoiding responsibility.
So I'll pray for you rather than do anything to actually help.
I'll just wish on a star that you will accidentally get the help that you need
and that I won't have to do fuck all about that.
If my name is Duggar, and I've been convicted of serial molestation of my younger sisters,
well then I don't have to serve jail time because I can just say that my magic imaginary friend has forgiven me.
And maybe the court system is going to be ruled by these make-believers as well,
and they'll buy my bullshit story, and so I don't have to have any responsibility for that either.
And then it doesn't matter what we do to the environment.
It doesn't matter that we have too many kids to feed.
It doesn't matter how grossly we overpopulate.
It doesn't matter what we do, all the damage that we do.
As Ann Coulter said, the gas guzzling SUV with the wet bar, that's the biblical way.
Because we can just pretend that Jesus is going to come back any minute now and burn everything anyway.
So it doesn't matter if we destroy it all up front.
And I remember telling one of these people, well, what if you're wrong?
I'm not wrong.
What if you're wrong?
I'm not wrong.
So you can't even think hypothetically.
Let me put it to you my way.
What if I'm wrong and your magic sky fairy shows up and lays waste to everything for no goddamn reason?
And we've been wise in our stewardship of this planet so that what he destroys is not a barren wasteland,
and he doesn't save us from our own responsibility.
That it was a habitable place where there's food and plenty for everybody and there's still biodiversity and clean blue skies and all of that.
Whereas your way, you're going to destroy everything and then really, really, really hope that somebody's going to save you from your own irresponsibility.
We know that's not going to happen.
Wow.
You put that, like, I should, that's like a slogan, bro.
I'm about to cut that out in this video.
Make a meme out of that and pass that out to the fundamentalist.
That is interesting.
I get a lot of those.
My mom still calls me all the time and she goes, Derek, please just do me a favor.
Just say a prayer right now and just say, God, forgive me if you're there and you really do exist, forgive me.
And I'm like, all right, mama, I got you because I don't want to upset my mom.
I know my mom is in her mindset.
She knows I believe what I believe and how I am, but I tell her no problem, mom, because I'd rather tell a white lie than lie and say, you know, yeah, yeah, yeah, or just try to hurt her feelings because she just can't understand it.
But I think to myself, when they say stuff like what if God does exist and you end up going to hell, that kind of stuff, what if he doesn't?
And you spent the only moments you ever had in existence here observing and missing out on so much that is out there and the enjoyment of what we do have.
Just everything is counter-natural.
It's counter-intuitive to not sleep with another woman.
It's for me.
Now, I'm not speaking for someone who might be naturally drawn to the same sex.
I'm not even talking negative.
Okay, I'm not trying to be any way negative.
I'm not judgmental on that at all.
I've changed so much.
I used to be.
I was a right-wing fundamentalist Christian.
I cannot tell you how I was hardcore.
Today, I'm like, wow, you know, some of my friends are homosexual.
Some of my friends are transvestite, like straight up, and I love them to death.
They're great people.
I may not be into that, but they're my friends.
And I tell these people, I'm like, look, you guys, this box that we put ourselves in is going to cause us harm.
And at some point, we're going to have to adapt and evolve.
This has got to change.
And we're starting that now with the conversations we're having on the Internet.
You doing your public speaking and debates.
All these other guys that are involved in the same thing.
And you guys are taking it into politics, which is interesting too and important.
But this book is influencing a lot of people on high levels in what direction they go.
In the early 1900s, we got involved in the Middle East because of these eschatologies of the end that the temple being built.
There was a lot of Christians that influenced political and presidential people to get involved in the Middle East
and to cause what's going on over there.
And I'm not trying to make this into a politics show, but if we do not learn to separate those things
or find a way to get out of fundamentalism, we'll have a problem.
Like I said before that we started recording, you want to believe something's out there that did this?
Cool.
You start getting down into the Kool-Aid drinking.
We got a problem because it's going to cause this world more problems than we need.
Yeah.
I make fun of my mother's religious perspective a lot, but I'm sorry to say that it's gotten a lot worse.
Really?
Yeah, she's still a Mormon and all of that, but now she worships the falsest of gods.
One who never lies, one who is a moral leader, one who is deigned by God, and his name is Trump.
Oh, man.
Yeah, my mom's hardcore right wing, my dad is right wing, and that's how I was raised.
I'm a follower too, and I totally get it.
I can't wait to see what's going to happen in the next 100 years as we keep this cycle going and let this stuff keep going,
because if we had non-religious leaders who were thinking of the things you're talking about,
what's practical, what's right in front of us, what's better for our future, better for our economy,
better for everything that we have as a people, I would love to see that happen,
but it's going to be fighting, there's going to be fighting before it gets any better, in my opinion.
But I think we're heading that way.
I don't think we have 100 years.
All the numbers that I've seen are that we're going to run out of oil very soon,
and that at our current resources with the population numbers that we have now,
that even going nuclear and electric with batteries and everything, we still will run out of that.
Not nuclear, of course, but we're going to run out of the different materials for batteries and such,
because we can't sustain this exponentially growing population of people.
When you have 8 million people, you have to be very efficient in how you produce energy and how you produce food,
and we're not.
We're so not.
And worse than that, we're not limited to 8 billion.
In the course of my lifetime, the global population has doubled.
In my grandmother's lifetime, it had doubled and doubled again before it got to me.
So we're going on this steep curve like this,
and that vertical line of exponential population growth is not sustainable,
not for our species nor any other.
Can you believe it all started with Adam and Eve?
Be fruitful and multiply to dominate and subdue the earth.
Fortunately, the sacred fables don't have any provision for what the limit should be.
When I first realized that the growing population was a problem, like 12 years old in 1974,
and I'm thinking, okay, you're right, there are too many people reproducing too rapidly to sustain.
The oceans can't support us.
The way that we're overfishing everything, let's just talk just on that, just that alone.
Oceans can't sustain the way that we're draining everything out.
They were sending out more and more fishing boats every year,
and collectively they're bringing in fewer fish.
What's that tell you?
That means we're running out of fish, right?
This is the grimmest thing.
Again, it's your responsibility, and nobody wants to take responsibility.
Not if you're a religious believer, you blame everything else on somebody else.
The devil made me do it, and you just get to claim forgiveness
without having to actually do anything to deserve that forgiveness.
You don't have to pay your toll.
You don't have to...
Somebody rang my doorbell.
That's the devil.
The devil is trying to get us.
It's okay.
Shut up!
I totally agree with you, and I think it is...
We're in a scary spot.
We are in a scary situation, and something is going to need to happen and happen soon.
At the pace we're going, I'm not so sure that that's...
I don't know.
I don't know enough of the figures.
I haven't looked at the numbers, but that would be something that...
I am worried about my children's children's children at this point.
I was going to say, maybe the priest had it right all along.
Let's all just become...
Let's stop sleeping with women and just become priests.
No, I'm just messing with you, man.
I have this idea.
When I'm 12 years old, everybody should have one kid.
Everybody looks at me like I'm Joseph Mengele.
I'm suggesting that people should voluntarily use birth control,
as if that was evil, because I'm in a Mormon family,
and they want to produce as many kids as possible.
Oddly enough, or ironically, because they're using eugenics,
which is differential breeding, and that's what eugenics is.
They're using positive eugenics instead of negative eugenics,
but it's the same thing.
I would never advocate eugenics, but they do.
The religious people are.
They're trying to outbreed everybody else,
but they don't understand that there's attenuation
that people will give up on religion.
They never predicted that happen.
Whatever faith you're born into is what you're going to stay in
for the rest of your life, and we have to outbreed the Muslims,
who are also breeding like crazy,
so we're going to overpopulate with insane people.
Look at China.
Do you want to end up in that situation?
That's not a place I want to be in, overpopulation.
You have this subsequent thought.
At this time, they come up with this technology called vasectomy.
So you have a reversible surgical procedure,
and I thought, in my naivety, I thought,
okay, so you have these kids, you can just have to,
you know, it's a painless, safe, reversible procedure.
Fine, you just do the vasectomy on the kid,
and there we got that whole thing covered,
and you don't have the pain and all that.
Somehow, that's evil.
That idea is just absolutely, apparently, evil.
It's much better to take the tip of that most sensitive organ
and lacerate that, again, without the child's consent.
Right.
Specifically to diminish their ability to appreciate sex.
Wow.
At significant risk, also.
It determines what you want to think of as evil.
On the topic of sex, which is important in the Genesis narrative,
kind of tying it back in,
there's a reason, Dr. Bob mentioned to me,
and I can't remember the name of the groups,
but there's a reason there's 144,000 virgin Israelites in Revelation 7,
and it goes back to this idea in the garden
where Adam and Eve and the serpent,
some type of situation with sex takes place,
because that's the curse.
God literally curses the woman and is like,
listen, you're now going to give childbirth in pain.
Now, my naivety thought,
before that, she was just popping babies out.
No problem, no Tylenol, no pain, no nothing.
And I literally thought that was what it was like before this fall.
She could just, hey, Bobby, welcome to the world.
No, dude.
This whole idea of now you're cursed in pain,
you'll give childbirth,
is that they had this strange affinity to sex
and the idea of sex,
and that there's some type of curse in this.
It was something to do with sex,
and I don't know what that is.
Do you have any clue?
The Abrahamic religions are particularly adverse
to healthy sexual practices,
and I think the whole issue is that sex is a drive,
much like eating.
They also have issues with eating.
Anything that feels good is not necessarily evil.
You eat, and that feels good,
because that's something you have to do.
And it's possible to eat healthy,
it's possible to drink healthy,
it's possible to have healthy sex.
Wild healthy sex.
But they've always got to make some terrible issue out of it,
and I think it is because they feel embarrassed
about what the drive does to them.
The more worked up you get,
the more willing you are to do things
that you will wish you didn't do yesterday,
or do the next morning.
You will wish you hadn't done them.
That's the way sex is.
And if you would be better to understand that,
and accept that this is a thing,
then to make up some bullshit kill trip.
Do you think that's where the idea,
and I know that of course they'll have their opinions,
do you think that's where the idea
of eating certain types of food come from?
I don't know about you, but shrimp is awesome.
And I don't know if you think
that maybe certain animals,
maybe not completely, but...
Yeah, well we think shrimp is awesome
because we discovered butter,
and garlic,
and for me,
a Cajun Vietnamese fusion sauce
that's made with ghost pepper,
and that's...
Wow, yeah.
Sitting on the toilet for a minute.
Yeah, there's this,
it's my favorite place to eat,
they boil snow crab in this sauce,
and it's very hot,
but it's...
I think they also use cracked cocaine in it
because it's really expensive,
but every time the waiter comes over and says,
would you like another couple of pounds?
I would say yes, yes I would, please.
Right?
Can't stop eating.
So I'm contributing to the very problems
that I just brought up.
Well, I just wondered,
because you brought up a good point about the whole sex,
and I was thinking
food might have something to do with that,
almost every practice that
you could think of.
It's against the whole pleasure,
fighting the flesh, fighting the
self-desires
of what we want naturally.
It's almost like fighting natural inclinations.
And
I get it, they might argue,
going to the other, our natural inclinations
to kill another person if they upset us.
Okay?
Maybe you're right, but maybe you're wrong.
I don't know about you, but I don't feel like
killing necessary.
I feel like beating someone's ass sometimes, maybe,
but I'm not thinking I'm going to kill this guy.
I'm sure it happens though,
but that's natural too.
These are all natural things.
And I told my wife, it's an interesting thing,
this is getting more personal now,
but nonetheless, it's okay.
Since I've left Christianity
in this belief system,
I've actually come to a conclusion at this point
where I don't feel
the whole sin idea.
I don't feel a guilt about
naturally looking and seeing another woman
that's beautiful. I even told my wife, I'm like,
I used to not want to tell you what's in my head.
I didn't want to tell you that I thought this girl was beautiful
or something. And there was this weird
don't say that.
And today, now that I have this open communication
with my wife, me and her talk about it.
Look at her butt.
Look at that butt over there, you know what I mean?
I feel freeing, because my wife thinks
women are attractive too.
And I'm like, dude, I'm the most blessed guy
in the world. That's all I could say.
But nonetheless, I'm like free now.
I'm not like fighting myself
and going, God, have I lived up to your justice?
Have I lived up to your whole...
Even if I did live these laws, I'm still
not worthy. Like,
really? Absurd.
That's just a horrible way of living, in my opinion.
Yeah,
look at the way that
chemical religions constantly repress people.
I mean, you have all of these different
religious groups that have these vows
of chastity and so forth.
And then look how perverse
these people become
because of that. I mean, like
let's just mention Catholic priests.
Right, it has the obvious example.
I've seen other
such examples among Jews,
among imams.
And it seems to me
that the biggest difference between
or one of the most recognizable
differences between the Protestants
and the Catholics is which gender
of child they molest.
Wow.
So the Protestants usually get
the young girls, usually.
Exactly.
So there was a conference
a couple months ago, I think it was,
where they made an announcement.
It must have been a very uncomfortable announcement
that there were like 300
members
of this organization that were
these collective churches
that were currently on charges
for sexual molestation of children.
And these are Protestants.
Oh, wow.
So it's not just the Catholics.
It's not just the Catholic priests doing that.
It's because it's not just
the repression of sex. It's also
manipulation.
It's a power play. It's control.
Because look what you can do in the clergy.
You know
you know Dick about Jack.
You have absolutely no understanding of anything.
All you have to do is sound confident.
That's it.
And once you say
that you have adopted this religious belief,
whether you actually read the silly book
or not, you just
say that you follow that.
And then suddenly
you have not only
money is
means that many of these people are professional priests,
so they don't have to work for a living.
Maybe they're not super rich,
but they don't have to work.
So all they have to do is pretend to be
wise,
pretend to console people,
and just have their bills paid.
And they get
treated like
they're especially moral. They get treated
like they're especially wise.
They very often get political
power as a result of this.
So that's got to be
appeasing to some people.
And it got no criteria whatsoever.
You don't have to have any
pass any tests.
So this is one guy
that I saw on stage
and I thought this is the most
reprehensible fuck I've ever seen.
He was kicking people in the head.
He's up on stage and he's putting his boot down
and kicking people in the head
to bring Jesus into them.
And then he was telling the story
about how he punched
this minor, this
like 15 year old kid, punched this kid
at the chest
to get him to accept Jesus on
no uncertain terms kind of thing.
And if I remember correctly, it is that
guy that just got sentenced
to life plus 20
years in prison for all of the
children that he molested.
Wow, I've seen the video
and he gets really emotional and he's
like, and I told little
Doug, whatever the
I came over and I, I hit
him, I hit him square in the chest
and I'm thinking to myself, he's
saying this. Everybody see
this? And then he's like, and I said
quit playing games with God, Doug.
Quit playing games with God.
You know, like, wow.
And then people hook, line and sink or buy this.
I agree. There's this power, superiority
that you get in that position
where you're really playing with people's
souls, if you will.
And I think it's funny because
well, it's not funny, but I
now look back. It's kind of like watching
maybe I shouldn't say
I think it's funny. I think it's horrible. I really
do. I just, I don't know. I have a
six sense of humor. So I'll see
celebrity deathmatch, you know, back in the day
on MTV and I thought that was funny
even then they're ripping each other's limbs off and things. It's a
joke. But this is
real. And
I shouldn't even be saying
that I think this is funny because
it's sad what has become
and the religion now that I've escaped
it, I don't feel
it's kind of like absolute acceptance. Once
you just accept something, you know it's natural
you're not inclined for that's a cookie I
can't touch. I obsess
over the cookie I can't touch if you're telling
me you shouldn't touch the cookie. To
me, I now know that, hey,
all things are, you know, I, this is
my world. I can, you know, do freely
and that also causes me to want to
restrict myself purposefully for good reasons
though, not for
supernatural Santa Claus in the skies
looking down at me, don't do that
while kids are starving in Africa to death.
I am over here getting
blamed. Why did you watch pornography?
I cannot believe you, you know,
just doesn't work out in my
world view anymore. It can't
and I hope it doesn't for many people who are watching
this.
We rabbitrolled from Adam
to sex
but it's important because it does
go into this discussion
and
I'll say this
people who are non-religious do these
things too, okay, we're not
saying if you're non-religious
you're going to be a saint, okay,
but what we are saying is how
is your religion truly
doing what you say it's supposed
to do and all the evidence
is contrary to the thing you claim it's
supposed to do. That should tell you
something. That should say, this speaks
volumes that
morality doesn't come from the religion.
It comes from the very thing you were
discussing at the beginning of the show
and that's powerful. That is
I'd rather live
godless
and be
just happy, free, a human
to try a better society
and really my three kids, I do have three
kids and I thought that way when I had my first one
be fruitful, multiply. I told my wife when we
first met, eight kids, I was so religious
we had three and I was like
hell no. I was
religious and I was like, no more, even as a
religious person. I just couldn't, I didn't want
that many and keep going.
So I stopped and now I'm actually
going to get a vasectomy
because I don't want to have anymore
and I don't want to risk it and
makes the wife happy to think if I ever did
go out or whatever, you never
have to worry about little Lamberts
running around, but I just, I'm just
being honest with you, you know
and I don't know
if the religious can be that honest
you know
I don't know, what do you think?
I see religion as being
inherently dishonest just
across the board everywhere.
Faith, I often say, is
the most dishonest position it is possible
to have because it is
an assertion of baseless speculation as though
it were a matter of fact
which is already dishonest yet that's
what all religions do. That
alone is already dishonest, but then
you also have the statement of faith
at least from the religious extremist groups
and creationism is a form of religious extremism
wherein
a lot of them will post a statement of faith
and I encourage you if you're involved
with the religious group go look up their statement of faith
in some way they will phrase it different ways
but they admit
that they will never
admit when they're wrong.
They admit that they will never admit that
one way or another that
that no evidence
can even be considered if it contradicts the
scriptural record.
Or their statement of faith
Catholics have jumped on a lot of them
on evolution.
A lot of Catholics believe in evolution
however there are certain things you can't touch
that are no-nos like the resurrection
of Jesus or the virgin birth
or the perpetual virgin Mary
whatever it might be
they have their no-nos and every religious view
has a no-no at some point
somewhere down the road you're going to find it
deep enough
yes sir
What I would have liked to have seen with religious
believers is like you said you mentioned
a friend who
believes there's something
I have similar friends
they didn't want to call themselves atheists because
although they don't believe in what would be
considered a god
they say they believe there's something
they believe that the universe has a plan
or something like I guess
but that relates to
the poll that I saw that I thought was fascinating
it was a poll of a scientific organization
wherein they asked all these scientists
do you believe in a god
or higher power
and when they mentioned or higher power
I'm sure that what they meant was just
clarifying what they meant by a god
but the scientists didn't understand it that way
they were given a choice
do you believe in a god
or a higher power
right and so there was some percentage
other than I can't remember what the percentage was
who did not believe in a god
but did believe in a higher power
like
it could be the force
right
it could be Gaia
it could be you know Spinoza
Spinoza slash Einstein's
view of pantheism
where literally the universe has a plan
right something like that
so I mean just because you believe there's
something doesn't
mean it's a god
so the best way to determine atheism
to my view is
are you convinced
that an actual deity really exists
and by actual deity
I mean is it a god
you know
and some people will make the argument
well I've acknowledged that
I'm the ultimate fence sitter
but you know there's one question
in the religious
perspective you know when you die
and you're supposed to go for the pearly gates
and everything you know it's like did you believe
or did you not
right so agnostic
the fuck is that
did you believe or didn't you
I didn't believe in god
but I didn't believe in not god either
fuck you hell
right right or hey we have a fence
you can sit on but the pole's gonna sit up
your ass the whole time
it's still damnation
right I'm just kidding
that was something that
we talked about this last time about militant atheism
briefly you mentioned the definition
and the way you defined it I could find myself
in line with that idea
however I'm not hostile I'm not
you know so when they think militant they think hostile
well um obviously
you need to define your terms when you mention
agnostic I tell people
if they want to know
am I agnostic I'll say
listen and this is the way I've been defining because by definition
I'm an atheist I don't believe in a god
I don't believe in the there's a divine
being of any sort
out there I have no reason to
and I've been led to
further and further reason why they're not
okay that's just my opinion
doesn't mean there it couldn't be
which is the point of why I tell people
look you want to put me in a box
I don't know if there is
possibly
a god out there
I'm not convinced at all there is
I'm an atheist but if you wanted to try and pin me down
in an argument or debate
absolutely sure no
and you're not either so
there we are we're all agnostics now
if you want to play games but
they like to play the game atheist or agnostic
all day long and
I tell them I'm an atheist by definition
but I don't know if there could be
I'm not convinced there is and so
that idea of not knowing
is where they would go well then you're an agnostic
and I go whatever dude I don't care about the labels
bottom line is I'm trying to teach you that
all these mythologies are all systems
made up by ancient antiquity
people and some of them might be intelligent
might be needed to be understood allegorically
but they've been if they
are meant to be understood in those ways like the
talking snake might mean something else
then the way that people have understood them
today predominantly
have been fundamentalist and it's harming us
so if you want to say
it's a story and that's it it's a great
myth or something cool
that's not how it's been understood
and that's not how it's been used
so you want to say Jesus dying
and rising again is some internal
you know spiritual understanding
of your own person cool I'm down
that's fine that's not what the creeds
say that's not what the church taught
that's not what it's been
understood as people have died over
exactly so I'm cool
with that like you want to allegorize
and all that cool cool fine
change the text
to what you think it really means okay
problem is
and even then
now I find myself outside of the text
not wanting to play games with it but nonetheless
problem is nobody's doing that
so we have a problem it's
we need to find the flaws
and that's what I do myth vision for
I want to poke holes use the scientific method
see where it's inconsistent see what the
problems are invite all the scholars on
and really challenge this book
which isn't hard to find issues with
so
that's why I have you on here my friend
but that you brought up something that
there's a personal pet peeve you know
is the hyper skepticism
right so how do you know
and if we want to we can we can go run
down that rabbit hole too so we can
challenge whether we know anything
and then what I often see
is when I start bringing up evidence
you know the people who believe what they want to
believe immediately try to
reject that evidence by telling me
that I can't prove that the evidence exists
because I can't prove that I exist
I might be a figment of their imagination
and how would I know if I am or not
or we're all
figure figments of God's imagination
maybe and nothing is real
okay well fine
if reality is real
then all the evidence shows
that there was never a global flood
there was never an Adam and Eve
and evolution really happened and
and the Bible's absolute crock of shit
that's a reality is real
but if reality is not real
it means that none of that shit ever happened
and the Bible is still wrong either way
so what's the point in telling me
that maybe
we have false memories and all that
you're still wrong
and we have to accept
that even if
reality is an illusion
we still have to live by the rules
of the video game that we may be non-player
characters in
this is still our reality
even if reality is fake
we still have to deal with it
so we still have to be pragmatic about it
except the fact that we exist in this
reality and then look at the facts
and according to those facts when you see
footprints on the beach it means that somebody
walked there
so the evidence
means something
so you're telling me that when there was only two sets
of footprints Jesus wasn't carrying me
I'm just teasing
no but you bring up a good point
and in reality if this is
reality basing on that idea there
I find it interesting
I found myself years ago doing this
and I do want to understand what the Bible
really means this is just a fascinating
topic to me because it had my
it had me gripped
so I want to figure this thing out
I have a motivation to
really understand it the problem
in this world that we have
isn't just the book
it isn't just the book the people
handling this book
if the book is and I'm going to
go to bat the only time on this
entire episode I'm going to go to bat if the book
is meant to be allegory or historical
fiction
if it's not
in reality here's what I mean
the book can say what it means and we can go
dude really that's a celestial myth
that like we talked about last time
about the olive tree did Jesus really know
it wasn't out of season or is this some
hidden message well
what they've done with it is
they've used it as a weapon and it's
not a healthy thing so
even if it's meaning of something else
why aren't we combating
a book that's being misused and
misapplied if it is
that and showing people they don't
need to be part of that you know escape
that I'm not saying we need to go around teaching
no this is a true message the message is allegory
within yourself let's try and do this in this net
but what I am saying is
it's used as a weapon
so bad that we
need to combat that
there needs to be reality
and people need to realize okay
we're killing people
it's time to get and grow up
we need to grow up because this book that was
written thousands of years ago wasn't written
to us anyways it's time to
start looking at what the book says
this isn't the bible but you know these are
my notes but I had to use
an example I like to talk with my hands
so but you're I'm with you man
I'm 100% with you and
I wanted to have you come on here to talk
about the bible talk about
Genesis and Noah just briefly mention
why there's recent
doubt why we need to be skeptics
today
we're
doing better the more this can get out the better
I hope nobody in charge
changes the freedom of religion
and thought in this nation but
let's just hope we go in the right direction
as humans and try and make that possible
you know
how do they get a hold of you
what way can they support you
what's the options here
well the
the debate
I'm a full-time activist now
and so the debate
and I need all the help I can get so
patreon.com forward slash A-R-O-N-R-A
I make six videos a month
if you want to donate to that just bear in mind
that's what it does what it is so you
make donations per view can you afford
six dollars a month can you afford
and that's what I live on have been
since 2014
and the interesting
thing is that the more I do
the more it seems that I can do
and so it's just
become more and more active
and I'm glad
that I'm able to do something where I
feel like I'm making
a difference and it's not just an illusion because
I get a lot of fan mail
that tells me that
I've helped people out of
I get regularly
I'd say about an average of at least three a week
people saying that I've helped
them come to a rational
position from a very dark
place of indoctrination and what have you
and I'm very glad to be affecting
people in that way
that's powerful I love that
and you've helped me
that's why I had you come on the show
I try to get guys that have inspired
me in some way
you have a lot better understanding
of science than I do
and just in case anyone
wonders I definitely knew that
a well was a mammal
but I'm simply
pointing out that the damn thing
lives in the ocean and
but so do manatees and so do
other types of species
seals etc. so
go check him out on his
YouTube channel and the name
of your YouTube channel is Aaron Rock
correct? Yes, A-R-O-N-R-A
I got your name right this time by the way
I messed up the last time
A-R-O-N-R-A
and check out his Patreon
we got a patron here help
him if you can help this channel
help this one but I'm trying to make the point guys
invest in what you want
to see for your future
because you want more
discussion like this you want more minds
involved in this discussion
this is what you want to invest
your time and energy into
all the time you spent
tithing the priests and you're tithing
the come on get the right guys
you know what I'm saying but
that's my little plug don't worry
I promise you we won't damn your soul
or anything like that and you won't have to worry
about that but I really appreciate you joining me
here today and hopefully
you have upcoming events that will make up for
the events that
you weren't able to do to the virus that just recently
come on the scene so
well to be completely
practical I am taking online classes
and it was it was fretting
on how am I going to do all this other stuff
and take classes
online because these are science classes
and so they take up a lot of time
so well that that problem's been solved
I know I have
enough time to do my own work
I'm glad you are and thank you for joining
me last minute notice here and
we'll we'll keep it topic related
of course I'm glad we had a hangout here
to talk about this and
I'll come up with more topics
and you the audience will actually do that
for me let me know what you guys
want to hear from Aaron Raw go join
his patreon so we can make this happen
he'll come back and visit MythVision
and we can keep bringing you guys some content
like this I really appreciate you joining
me and don't forget we
are
MythVision
MythVision
