Welcome back to MythVision Podcast. I have a special guest. His name is A. A. Ron. That's
right, Aaron Smith-Levin. Welcome to MythVision. How are you doing, brother?
Doing great. Thanks for having me. Thank you. I want to obviously give you the opportunity.
You've probably said it a million times. And if I pat myself on the back here, some people say,
Derek, you just have a certain way of asking certain questions or probing deeper into people's
stories that other people don't ask or there's a way in which you're interviewing is different.
And so I don't know if that's good or bad, but we're going to roll with it. And I want to hear
your story about Scientology in light of all of the insanity, I'll use the term,
that has been kind of shown. It's got a lot of hype in the news lately. And of course,
you were a Scientologist. And now I almost want to say it's your life that you're out of it and
exposing it for what it is. Can you start us off somewhere? And while you do that, I'll briefly
mention you have a YouTube channel. I hope people will go and subscribe, check them out.
Great personality, very educational, fundus keep you on the latest greatest. This one went viral
in one day. You know, Kirstie Alley just passed away. And of course, she was a Scientologist.
There's all sorts of stuff. You keep up on that. And of course, you could support us at
MythVision's Patreon. Check us out. Hundreds of videos never released. All right. A. A. Ron,
lead the way, my friend. Well, I mean, I guess I'll just assume I'll tell the story as if people,
you know, have no idea, which the truth is, most people have no idea. No matter how many
people you think watch your stuff, nobody has any any idea. Right, right. So, you know, I was I
was born and raised in Scientology. I was four years old when my mom got introduced. And so at
that age, it was me, my twin brother, and my mom raising us as a single mother at that time. So,
she got in in 1984, pretty much right away, joined staff at the Scientology Organization in
Philadelphia. And so some of my earliest memories are of being in the nursery at the Philly Org.
You know, in Scientology, they call their quote unquote church at the Colm Org. So, there's
only one Oregon Philly, by the way, the Oregon Philly is the only Oregon, all of Pennsylvania,
New Jersey, and Delaware. Scientology is really a lot smaller than it gives people the impression
that it is. So, some of my earliest memories are being in the nursery at the Org. A lot of the staff
members had kids that were, you know, younger than school age, and they would just be in the nursery.
So, I lived a relatively normal life up until like 12 years old. So, you know, I did go to public
school from kindergarten through sixth grade, I went to public school. And, you know, my mom got
married there at some point, and her husband got into Scientology, and his son and daughter,
so my stepbrother and stepsister at that time, they all got into Scientology. And then my mom got
a couple other of her friends into Scientology, and their kids got into Scientology. So, you know,
for the seventh grade, me, my brother, my stepbrother, my stepsister, and my mom's two kids,
were all pulled out of school, and we all did homeschool run by my mom. At the same time that
we were doing homeschool for that seventh grade year, my mom, who had left staff because of,
you know, taking care of all the kids, decided that she and her, you know, her husband at that time,
and her two friends, and all of the kids, we were all going to join staff. So, I was 12 years
old when I was essentially pulled out of school. I want to be as precise as possible. So, for this
one year, this homeschool year, we would do homeschool during the day, and then we would
be on staff at the Philly, Oregon nights and weekends. So, you know, I'm 12 years old, we're
at the Oregon downtown Philly until 10 o'clock at night. That's when the course rooms are open until
10 o'clock at night. Okay, so after that homeschool year, we left Philadelphia, we went down to
Clearwater, Florida, where I now live, and for the next several years, did nothing but study
Scientology. So, my formal education ended at that point. Technically, we finished the seventh grade
in homeschool. So, my formal education ended at that point. I never went to high school. I don't
have a GED. I don't have an equivalency or a diploma or anything like that. Wow. So, did full-time
training in Scientology from the age of 12 to the age of 15, finished the training that I was sent
to Clearwater for at the age of 15, and then went back to Philadelphia to be a full-time staff member.
So, now at this point, so remember, when I'm doing this full-time training in Clearwater,
I'm existing within a, you might say, a very protective or at least insulated Scientology
bubble that exists in Clearwater. You're doing all Scientology all the time. You don't, you're not
really interacting with the real world. Now, I'm going back to Philly. Well, the Philly, Oregon is
right smack dab in the middle of the real world. Right. Job of the Philly, Oregon is to get brand
new people into Scientology. So, you're in the real world, but I'm 15 years old. So, at least there
was sort of maybe, I don't want to use the word excuse, but you could fly under the radar in
Clearwater, you know, being a minor child and not being in school and working all day, essentially.
Now, it's just happening in broad daylight in Philly. So, this is 1996 at this point. I go back
to Philly. I'm living in South Jersey with a friend of my mom's because my mom is still training in
Clearwater for many more years after I go back to Philadelphia. So, I'm now working really working
full-time, like not just studying, but now I'm actually on a post. I'm actually working full-time
seven days a week, nine in the morning at night, nine in the morning to 10 o'clock at night,
throwing the commute from Philly to South Jersey where I was living. And that was my life from
15 years old to just before I turned 18 years old.
Real quick on that post, what were you doing? What was your goal to try and convince people to
join or what was your whole mission during that time on your post?
My post at the Philly org was basically Chief Academy Supervisor. So, I was responsible for
running the academy. You could say training the auditors. Training auditors is what occurs
in the academy, but it's not all that occurs in the academy. So, anyone who's taking
any Scientology course, whether it's auditor training or otherwise, is doing it in the academy
at that point. And at that point, there was no introductory course room. Normally, the introductory
course room is separate from the main academy so that you don't have brand new people here in all
the crazy Scientology language. But in the Philly org, it was so small, there wasn't an
introductory course room. So, we had to handle literally the brand new person walking in off the
street in addition to, you know, the seasoned veterans who are doing like the advanced Scientology
auditor training. So, I definitely, at that point, got my exposure to the real world. Like,
I wasn't just living in a Scientology bubble at that point. And it never seemed to be a problem
for anyone that I was 15 years old. Right, right. There's so many questions and things that you
brought up along the way that even people who aren't aware of Scientology, what is an auditor?
I mean, there's so many things will get lost. And if we spend that time, we won't have time
to get through your story. You're 15, up till the time of 18, you're working a post in the
world world. I must ask along the journey, if you can remember your memory, were there moments of
doubt? I mean, you're raised, you brought in, or you sold on the mission. Elron Hubbard is
technically your Messiah. And anything David Miscavige says is, you know, gospel.
I'm definitely sold on the mission. I think it's interesting to note that having been
brought up in Scientology and trained at that young age and having it be a time after Elron Hubbard
had died, I didn't have some particularly amazing idea of Elron Hubbard. I didn't have this reverence
for him. I certainly cared more about David Miscavige's opinion than I did about Elron Hubbard's
opinion, because Elron Hubbard was dead. So, I mean, honestly, like, if an order would come down
from David Miscavige, and you had some old timers complaining about how this didn't jive with their
interpretation of Hubbard, I was like, one of those guys is dead, one of those guys is alive.
Is this really an argument? The guy who's alive wins.
Right, right. Okay, okay.
And that's just, I'm sort of saying that at a macro level, I never particularly interpreted
any of what David Miscavige was doing to be contrary to Elron Hubbard's wishes. But a lot of
old timers did. And in retrospect, I can see what they were talking about. But I was so,
you know, with my blinders on, just caring about really more what David Miscavige said
than what Elron Hubbard said, that I would almost interpret Elron Hubbard's words through the lens
of whatever David Miscavige said, instead of the other way around. Do you see what I mean?
I see this phenomena in every single cult that I've discussed, or even any kind of religious
dogma. You see this through my pastor, my priest said, and whatever it might be, you know,
everybody's kind of interpreting certain things through the lens of the immediate
influence in their life. And of course, he was, Elron Hubbard seems to be somewhat of a relic
in your respect, whereas you have a living voice. So you're 18 years old. I guess you're leaving
the post, but you're still a Scientologist. I don't know what happens from there.
So what happened is that, and to put this into context, I will remind everybody,
the contract of employment that I had with Scientology at this point was a five-year contract
that only goes into effect once you finish your training. So when I went back to Philly in 1996,
I had five years I was supposed to work on my contract, or else I had to pay Scientology for
all the training that I'd done. So this is great. This is great. I'm just going to stop talking.
So just a few weeks shy of my 18th birthday, I had gotten so frustrated with just the experience
of working at the Philly org because of the people who were running the place, making it a really
horrible place. Just to name names, I'm talking about Bonnie Di Martino, Attilio Di Martino,
and Edward Di Martino. Really horrible people, to be honest. And even though I was still a true
believer in Scientology and the mission, I was like, man, you guys are making my life such a
hell. I'd rather fuck off and go do anything else other than this, even though I still believe in
the Scientology mission, the story, the prison planet, the bridge to total freedom, full operating
thing. And I'm like, but you guys are such horrible assholes. I'm going to go do something else.
So I got on a bus and me and my brother moved to Hollywood, and we basically fucked off for two
years having nothing to do with Scientology. Now, after those two years, I was kind of like,
well, after about two years, I was kind of like, because in my mind, I'm still a Scientologist.
And because I broke my contract, the Scientology had given me what they call a freeloader bill
of $100,000. Wow. $100,000. And what this bill is, it's for, you know, if you break your staff
contract without finishing it, you have to pay that bill before you can do any other Scientology.
Well, eventually after two years, I was like, you know, I still consider myself a Scientologist,
but I can't really do any Scientology. And I don't have an extra $100,000, you know, burning a
hole in my pocket. I don't really see what the future future holds unless I go back to Philly
and finish my contract. And I've got two years left. So I went back to Philly for another two years,
and I finished my contract. And I was pretty much all set to be like, all right, bitches,
I'm out of here and go back to Hollywood and do whatever I wanted to do. But right around that
time, some friends of mine who I had known many years earlier in Philly, but who themselves had
risen to be quite senior executives in the C organization in Los Angeles,
they got word that my contract was expiring. And they swooped in to help remind me that I had
always wanted to join the C org and now was finally the right time. So they convinced me and I,
and I joined the C org and went to Los Angeles. And from 2002 to 2004, I was in the C org in Los
Angeles working on Elvron Hubbard Way and in a couple of those organizations that are there.
Real quick, you joined the C org, which means you had a billion year contract just to plug our
friend Mike Render here. If you haven't got the book, you really, really do need to come to Earth.
We have a planet called Earth that has this book on it. Come check us out. There's a little,
I had to plug that, Mike's amazing. And you had to sign a billion year contract if you joined
the C org, just letting people know. So that's right. And, you know, just some little interesting
facts, you know, legally speaking, the C organization does not exist. It's, it's not an
end. It's not a company. It's not an LLC. It's not a corporation. It's not a membership. Like,
there is a membership organization for Scientology. It's called the IAS, the International
Association of Scientologists. There is no membership organization called the C organization.
And it's really strange. And it is through the C organization. And you mentioned the
billion year contract. C org members sign a billion year commitment. It's symbolic. It basically
means it's a lifetime commitment. And you have to be a C org member to be a part of Scientology
management. And you have to be a C org member to work at the organizations that deliver Scientology's
upper confidentiality levels. Well, so this organization exists in reality, but it doesn't
exist in the eyes of any laws or any governments in the eyes of the law or in the eyes of any
governments. Well, David Miscavige's control of Scientology is he has that control through the
C organization. He doesn't control Scientology through any affiliation with any official
corporation. Scientologists call David Miscavige chairman of the board because they believe he's
the chairman of the board of religious technology center. RTC is the corporation that owns all
the Scientology trademarks. And David Miscavige calls himself the chairman of the board of RTC.
He is in fact not on the board of RTC specifically so that he cannot be served in any lawsuits by
serving RTC. It's incredible, right? It's literally a mob type. It's like a sequel
organization of criminal activities. Honest. Yes. 100%. 100%. And a C org member can be
transferred or traded or sent or swapped with any other org. Like a C org member in LA can be
traded with a C org member in the UK or Australia. You can be sent anywhere. There's no, you go
wherever you're told to do whatever you're told. And Miscavige has ultimate ultimate control over
the C org. And it is that control through which he's able to control all of Scientology. And just to
think that it doesn't actually exist. That's something lawyers are going to figure out how
to handle somewhere down the line in some RICO case. I guarantee it. There's always something.
This is something I notice is never being a Scientologist but examining this and speaking
to Scientologists. And there's always a case. There's always something going on. And it's like
they can't just stay under the radar. So okay, you're a C org member of an organization that
doesn't exist. It's a ghost. But you're part of it. And so you are kind of rekindling your fundamentalism
in Scientology through this in a sense. What's going on with you and leading up to some of the
drama I suspect that occurs in your life. Yeah. Well, I guess there's this sort of, if I think
back on my time, there was sort of this chronic contradiction in my mind between the level of
dedication I was showing by being there and doing what I was doing and putting up with everything I
was putting up with and the level of belief or the value that I actually had in my mind for
Scientology period. Like you would think that these two things would be totally in sync with
one another. And yeah, looking back on it, there was really this chronic contradiction or out of
synchness. And I'll just tell you one quick anecdote that sort of proves my point here.
Okay. Or shows what I'm talking about. So remember, I had been a Scientology staff member
since I was 12. In other words, I had never paid for a Scientology course before ever.
I'd never chosen to join Scientology. I never particularly enjoyed getting auditing. The only
courses that I had done were courses that I was required to do for the training for my post.
I didn't have this subjective reality of like, Oh, I choose to do Scientology because it makes me
better. It was almost like it was always something I did because it was put in front of me and I had
to do it. Right? Right. Right. I remember. So when I joined the Sea Org, I went on to a post. It was
called the technical secretary at the American St. Hill Organization, which is right there on L
Run Hubbard Way. It's got the one with the really ugly line statue in front of it. Okay. The technical
secretary is in charge of all of the audit that is in charge of the professional delivery of all of
the auditing and training in Scientology. As far as the organization goes, it's like being the head
of operations. It's an important post. And I remember one day I was waiting for course to get out so I
could do some announcement and like brief the entire student body. And I just thought to myself,
man, like if this wasn't my job, like if I didn't have to be doing this, would I ever spend one penny
of my own money or one hour of my own time to come in here and study in this course room
or get auditing? I'm like, I wouldn't. I would not. I would not ever pay for this. I would not ever
spend my own time on this. Wow. And yet it was my job to deliver those very things to all of these
people who had already paid for it. Like if that's not cognitive dissonance, then I don't know what is.
It is weird how that works. Like they're giving you thousands and thousands of hundreds of thousands
of dollars of all of this free stuff, if you will, depending on who they're pitching it to, of course.
And they're like, please give it to me. Here's the money. And you're like, I don't even want to
technically do this. And it's something that it's free. And I don't even want to do this in a way.
That's right. That's right. And you might go, well, geez, that must have been like,
something must have clicked for you. You must have left shortly thereafter, right? I was like,
no, I was there for like three more years in the seagorn. And so someone might hear that story and
go, well, gosh, it sounds like you weren't really a true believer. And I go, well, in some aspects,
it might seem that way. And yet I was still there. So there was something that I was believing
that was keeping me there. And here's what that was. In a strange way, even though I could see
in front of me that the auditing that I knew to exist and the training that I knew to exist,
didn't see to make people who were particularly that special. I could see that in front of me.
But I still believed in the lie that Scientology tells about the upper, unreleased auditing levels
called the upper OT levels. And it sounds so stupid when I say this, because it's like, well,
anyway, you will not get judged. I know, I know. I'm just saying sometimes you realize how ridiculous
it sounds when you say it out loud. It was the parts of Scientology that I truly believed in
was the prison planet story, the matrix like story that Elrond Hubbard tells about how planet Earth
is essentially a prison planet. And these bodies are prisons that we as spiritual beings have been
trapped in by the evil psychiatrists who have imprisoned us all on this planet and tricked us
into thinking that we are bodies and have pre-programmed us as spiritual beings to report
to the implant station every time we die to get our spiritual memories wiped. And then we're,
you know, electronically programmed to shoot back down to the maternity ward and pick up a new body
and that Earth is a prison by virtue of the fact that we live lifetime after lifetime stuck in these
bodies without realizing it's a trap and it's a prison and we could be independent not only of
these bodies, but of the entire physical universe. That's the part of the story I believed in.
You know why I think that, and I'm just giving you my own guess, you know why I think that was one
of the more believable things even though it sounds the most ludicrous is it's unfalsifiable
in so many ways and it sounds so complex like they have this weird answer for every weird thing
we've thought about. And there's a lot of philosophy in there as well. There are people who think well
how do we know we're not brain trapped in a vat? How do you know the world wasn't invented or
created five minutes ago? There's weird stuff and this sci-fi kind of thing connects to that.
One question I want you to keep going is this. Supposedly this information is not supposed to
be for anyone below OT 5, 6, 7, and 8. I think how do you know about some of this stuff, Xenu?
Did you already know about Xenu and the planets? From what I understand was that common knowledge
amongst scientists but they're like hey don't tell. Everything I just described that I believed in
is completely separate from the confidential levels and Xenu and the body thetons. Okay. I
did not know about Xenu and the body thetons until after I left Scientology. Oh wow this is
interesting. Yes. Elrond Hubbard's lectures are littered with commentary and information from him
about the Markabian invader forces and implant stations and all this stuff. I never did the
confidential OT levels when I was in Scientology. So, Scientologists believe in space opera totally
aside from Xenu. When you hear Scientologists talking about they get to OT 3 and they find out
about Xenu and they're like holy shit I didn't know that was coming. It's not because they haven't
heard about the space opera stuff. It's because they expected what whatever was on the OT levels
to be something totally new and incredible and unimaginable and you know you could be in Scientology
for 30, 40, 50 years and never even hear the word Xenu or body thetons. So the idea until you get to
OT 3 Elrond Hubbard never says anything that even implies thetons could be stuck to you
or that could be what's wrong with you. And so yeah everything I just described about the
prison planet, the implant stations, that's all shit lower level Scientologists believe.
I'm glad that you clarified and my good friend, your good friend Karen Del Carrier, she literally
said what you said when she mentioned finding out about Xenu in the OT levels and she's like
this is going to sound silly but I believed that so she did the same thing she's such a
dear and my mom is obviously watching it now probably going this is good this is good. So
you believe in this wild stuff it's the common stuff that may not be so believable to you it's
the practicality of the religion it's the absurdity of how you're treated by people who are assholes
how is your therapy actually helping you be a better person I don't see it but the absurd
unfalsifiable science fiction well that I can swallow tell us what happens what's going on like
give us the journey on your way out and then I'd like to ask some exit discussions on like what
perception is now things like that. Sure well to do a good job explaining the next part let me
take one step back to the time when I was training a flag okay um my experience at flag from that's
the you know the giant Scientology Oregon Clearwater Florida from 1993 to mid 1996 was about as good
or positive as that experience could have been like and this is important because it affects
how things happen later um my concept of David Miscavige could not have been more positive
based on my understanding or what I thought what I believed about his role in creating the culture
in the atmosphere at flag and also um okay so I'm trying I'm trying to parse this as accurately as
possible my experience at flag you could have a whole spectrum of experiences at flag okay because
I was at flag but I was not a sea org member I was not a staff member there I was a staff member
from Philly okay I had what I I spent three years on a sea org base I was living with sea org members
I was working with next to them I was eating next to them so I had what I thought was a sea org
experience but I almost had the best possible version of it because I sort of got to experience
the culture without having to actually have the same consequences and responsibilities and
repercussions for things so it's almost like I dipped my toe in but I thought I'd had the full
experience it's like it's like the celebrities um um who are experiencing the delightfulness of
Scientology ignoring the lower end people who have to keep them happy in a way in a sense I don't
know yes now anyone else who's been through the out org training program at flag would would laugh
at comparing that experience to the experience of a celebrity Scientologist like it's a tough
experience but um but but the but the how I want to you know describe it is that by the time I
finished my training at flag I thought flag was great I thought Scientology was great I thought
David Miscavige was great and I associated the greatness of that experience with David Miscavige
and with a close proximity to David Miscavige because he was personally overseeing the whole
training evolution that I had done there so when I go back to Philadelphia and I had a horrible
experience in my mind it's reinforcing for me that the further away you are from David Miscavige
the shittier Scientology gets the closer you are to David Miscavige the better Scientology gets
that's in my mind how I'm thinking okay so then I go to the Seergan LA and it's horrible the
experience is almost worse than Philadelphia just Seergan members constantly fighting and bickering
and finger pointing and fault finding and you're always in trouble and everything's always a problem
and everything's always an emergency and it's it's exhausting right and except now I'm having a
real Seergan experience this is the first time I'm actually a Seergan member right but in my mind
I'm still thinking being in the Seergan Los Angeles sucks because Miscavige isn't overseeing it
okay so I even so again so okay so I'll fast forward to answering the immediate question of
like what happened in LA the same thing that happened in Philly it got to a point where I was
so fed up with it and when I joined the Seergan I had the opinion they needed me more than I needed
them like I already had a life in the real world like I know that I when I talk about my time in
Philly I focused mainly on the three years before I took my two-year hiatus but when I went back to
Philly I wasn't working at the org seven days a week nine in the morning to 10 o'clock at night
anymore I had to pay bills I had to support myself so I got a regular job in the regular
world I worked at Blue Cross Blue Shield I worked at the Philadelphia Orchestra I had real jobs in
the real world I bought a new car I bought myself a house I had a fiancé like I knew what it was
like to live in the real world and I knew I sure as hell didn't need to spend the rest of my life
in the Seerganization if I didn't if I wasn't having any fun right one comment on this that I
think is powerful though you lived something most of our viewers don't have a clue about now here's
my point I know from experience we learn things when you hear of people who've never had a life
outside and then they have to leave that hits you differently than it hits most people who never
had involvement with Scientology so I imagine you really know holy shit they really went through it
when they went to leave since they never knew of a life outside of this it's different I imagine
you really empathize it's totally different it's totally different and if you've never had a life
outside um it doesn't you definitely feel more attached it doesn't even occur to you you can
leave whereas for the four years that I was in the Seergan I was pretty much always like
if this gets much worse I'm just gonna leave you guys so I don't really give a shit you know
I'm here to do my job it's really hard to even do a job everyone's fighting so often so it just got
so horrible after four years that in my mind I'm like yeah I'm ready to get out of here but I was
married I didn't want to divorce my wife I could tell she was having a hard time as well we sort of
kind of subtly let each other know if you leave I'll leave if I leave or you leave you know but
without explicitly discussing it that's how much people have to self-censor you know we didn't sit
down and have an actual conversation um so my wife got pregnant which you know wasn't necessarily
spoken about beforehand but you know how biology works it requires cooperation right
um when she found out when she actually tested positive on a pregnancy test we had like a
little mini celebration you know yeah we're like this is the easy way out of here and so so when
we left the seerganization in 2006 the the official reason was simply that she was pregnant and
you know we both we were working in different organizations but the morning after you know
we found out she was pregnant we both went to our respective ethics officers and said you know
having a baby not getting an abortion that's literally how the conversation went
that says a thousand things just by you having to say that it's it's literally how it went I sat
down with the ethics officer just letting you know how there's pregnant we're not getting an abortion
it's funny you have to add that and I don't want to get into politics that is not our goal today
it's it's something that Karen highlighted before was they are they want to push you it's not that
like who cares if you want to argue like someone has the right to their own body all that stuff
that's a different question than you having to tell your ethics officer part of this cult that
hey we're not getting this child abortion I know you want us to and I know that you want my wife
not to have this child but we're not doing it I can't tell you how important that is for our
audience to really understand you have to explain that to them that's right that's right and you'd
think and just to give a little more color to the culture of the C organization it's not like
anyone's going to come up to you and be like hey you know what thanks for a hard four years you gave
us my wife had been in for like 14 years you know congratulations you guys this is the natural course
of things no you're treated like you are a you are a scum you're breaking your C or contract
you're working against the aims of Scientology you're not forwarding command intention
you're off-purpose you're other per other intention you're a piece of shit and but we were prepared
for that and unbeknownst to us the Laura de Crescenzo lawsuit had already started moving forward
and for those who don't know that was a lawsuit where a former seorg member was suing because
she was uh still a minor uh married mind you but but still a minor when she was in the seorg
and got pregnant and was coerced against her will heavily coerced to forced to agree to get an abortion
so we didn't know at the time because this the seorg members aren't informed about what kind of
lawsuits are going on but because her lawsuit was underway and it had to do with pressuring
seorg members to get abortions um we were not actually pressured by our official seniors or
ethics officers um to divorce or get an abortion what they did was they sent in one or two of
heathers friends who didn't have any organizational power over her mean like they weren't senior to
or in the pecking order um to sort of privately talk to her and try to get her to do the right thing
um but they didn't apply any actual organizational pressure and to us it was kind of a surprise we
didn't really question it but it was a surprise we only found out later it's because of the Laura
de Crescenzo lawsuit that they were like okay we've got to pump the brakes wow unlike really
putting people through the meat grinder to to change their mind about you know um keeping a baby
right one question before going further is did you and your wife in in light of this did
you finally have that talk where you were opening up to each other no okay that day must come at
some point I suspect maybe or did it just happen did you just both evolve out of this together
and just kind of like you know what the hell I know like we see what happened uh yeah it's cool
you stuck together anyway please continue so um we got out of there pretty easily pretty easily um
uh that happened to coincide with the time when like three quarters of the base got like a vicious
stomach flu um and we were one of the lucky ones who had our own room that we didn't have our own
room and our own private bathroom that we didn't have to share with anyone else so for a few weeks
while this stomach flu made its way through the base we just got to hang out in our room for a few
weeks when it finally came time for us to get our leaving sec checks it was literally done in like
two or three days it's like almost unheard of uh but you could tell there was sort of a mutual
understanding like we want to get you guys out of here as fast as possible we're going to make it as
painless on you as possible if you'll make it as painless on us as possible and it was sort of like
uh you ask me the question and I'll give you the answer and you just tell me my needle's floating
so we can get this over with wow so you should have left and you should have never looked back
you shouldn't be talking about this today Aaron like yeah what's what's the deal excellent question
so that's 2006 we leave the C organization um we're still Scientologists in good standing
we go to Clearwater where her family lived um my mom was still in Philly and she still
worked full time at the org so it was no place to raise a family so we went to Clearwater
so from 2006 to 2009 everything was just normal we were public Scientologists
we existed in the ecosystem we weren't considered to be a negative influence I worked we both worked
for various Scientology companies Scientologists owned companies in 2009 things started to change
that's when the Tampa Bay Times published a whole series of articles about people like Mike Rinder
Tom Devocht Marty Rathbin Jeff Augustine um other people um who escaped from the international
base and left Scientology and we're now talking about what it was actually like to work under
David Miscavige at the international base and that's when I finally realized that being in the
C organization in LA wasn't horrible because we weren't close enough to David Miscavige
it was horrible because we were getting the trickle down effect from being
the closest C org base to international management and things that international management were so
much worse than in Los Angeles and when Miscavige didn't like someone anymore and he just kicked
them out of the base and got rid of them he would send them to LA so LA was populated with C org
members who were disillusioned and didn't really care anymore and they knew that David Miscavige
was just a vicious asshole and yet these are people who still didn't have the means or the
wherewithal to leave the C org so they really just sort of honestly cluttered up uh I'll say
muddied up the C org experience in LA because they weren't honestly like true believers anymore
they just couldn't bring themselves to leave so they made bad C org members
and I say bad C org members from the perspective of what David Miscavige would want do you know what
I mean yeah yeah and so but it created a bad culture but up until that point I thought the
bad culture was because we weren't close enough to Miscavige and now I was having to come to terms
with the fact that it's because we were getting the trickle down from international management
and the international management was exponentially worse so that's when the that was the first crack
in the dam for me as a Scientologist so you didn't know about David you didn't really know
about the drama or and I'm using the word drama not in a bad sense but like the people who are
outspoken against Scientology until you had the freedom away from C org and you and your wife
are living your life as Scientologists you didn't really know about all of this stuff
I didn't know about any of it nobody had spoken about it got nobody had ever spoken
out publicly that I had seen right and and if they had they were people I didn't know
they were people from before my time this was the first time that people I knew I had seen
you know from the age of 12 I'd seen Mike Rinder address all Scientologists in the world five times
a year I knew Tom Devocht from my time in Clearwater he was the he was one of the most
senior managers on the entire base I knew Marty Rathbun he was the president of RTC at least
that's what I was told when he came to flag when I was there in 1996 like people worshipped Marty
like he walked on water and now these guys not only had they left the C organization but they'd
left Scientology altogether and I had no idea wow so that was when I started to really reevaluate
things and then other people left from senior management people who'd worked very closely
with Elrond Hubbard people who were intimately familiar with what did or did not exist on the
upper OT levels and that's when I find out remember I told you what was the only thing that was
keeping me really believing in the first place it's all this stuff yes when I found out specifically
from Dan Coon because he's someone who I knew knew exactly what Elrond Hubbard left behind and
what he didn't and when Dan Coon said there are no upper OT levels they just don't exist maybe Elrond
Hubbard was working on them maybe he wasn't we don't know and we'll never know because he didn't
leave anything behind that even hints as to what should be on OT 9 and 10 or above now you'd think
this would be some sort of existential crisis for me but it wasn't it wasn't I was like damn I wish
someone told me that 20 years ago now like finding that out allowed me to just let everything go
because again I just want to reiterate that like so much of my Scientology experience
was just doing what I was supposed to do that was put in front of me that I was trained to do
I never chose to join Scientology I never chose to join staff the reason I chose to
join the Sea Org in 2002 is because my experience at Flag from 93 to 96 at that time I very very
much wanted to join the Sea Org I wanted to stay at Flag I never wanted to go back to Philadelphia
I wanted to stay at Flag forever and that was mostly due to the camaraderie and the friends
that I'd made there didn't necessarily have anything to do with my belief in Scientology
it had to do with all the the friends that I'd made there right okay so when I finally
joined the Sea Org in 2002 again it wasn't really so much that I believed it was like
you know what this is something that I'd wanted to do for a really long time let me just do it
so even then it was just doing a job that I was given I never had some existential crisis when it
came to leaving Scientology I never go what do I believe what do I not believe I never had one
second of that right um and so so then fast forward to and I'm gonna get the date wrong
2011 2012 something like that New Year's Eve a famous Scientology manager who had left the
Sea Organization named Debbie Cook sends out an email to all Scientologists in the world
basically saying David Miscavige is violating the intentions of Elrond Hubbard and Scientologists
should stop supporting him you should stop giving all your money for nothing and you should go back
to what Elrond Hubbard said to do which is only give money for auditing only give money for courses
stop donating tens of millions of dollars for buildings so and she called Miscavige out for a
whole host of violations of Elrond Hubbard technology right my mom got expelled from Scientology for
essentially I'm dumbing this down for simplicity's sake for essentially sharing that information with
other Scientologists okay this is I'm telling the part of the story of okay so how do I get
to where I am now right and it started with my mom getting expelled for sharing the information
in Debbie Cook's email Scientology then came to me and said well you have to disconnect from your
mom or you're going to be declared expelled and when you're declared and expelled all Scientologists
have to sever ties with you well my wife's a Scientologist my wife's entire parents are
Scientologists her three siblings are Scientologists they're married to Scientologists
my wife and I both worked for Scientologists all of our friends are Scientologists our kids are
going to Scientology schools so as much as I didn't really give a shit about Scientology I wasn't
looking to completely destroy my entire life right right a lot of cult members do the same
go ahead yeah exactly so I told Scientology I disconnected from my mom but I didn't I never
really did so for two years I basically lived this lie and various Scientologists in my life
would be spying on me and our nanny who took looked after our kids was a Scientology staff
member and she would literally ask our children if they had seen their grandma recently now we
never told our kids like our kids were never really introduced to Scientology we certainly never
told them they weren't allowed to talk about their grandmother we certainly like imagine how
destructive that would be that a psyche of a child of like you're not allowed to tell people
that you see your grandmother so anyway Scientology after two years was able to realize this guy's
just going to keep lying to us isn't he and like yep yep I'm just going to keep lying to you about
so that eventually they declared me then they go to my wife and they go well you have to divorce
your husband oh my yeah bro yeah you have to divorce your husband or you're going to be declared
and she lays out the entire argument for how that doesn't really mathematically make sense for her
she's like so let me get this right I'm going to divorce my husband who I do love by the way
but that's not the important part of this conversation we're going to share custody
of our kids for the next 15 years or whatever now during that time I'm not going to be allowed to
do Scientology anyway because I'm still connected to a suppressive person through our children
so so I'm not going to be able to do Scientology but I've divorced my husband
then my kids are going to turn 18 and because Aaron's a great father they're of course if
half they have to choose between him and me they're going to choose him because he's not the one
giving them the ultimatum so then I'll be able to do Scientology but I will have lost my kids
and my husband she goes do you see how this doesn't work for me I'm not going to divorce my husband
and they go okay you're declared and then they go to her parents and they go you have to disconnect
from your daughter and your three granddaughters or you're going to be declared now this is where
Scientology gets really vicious and this is why I say Scientology is a cult because at that point
her parents are the ones who truly had no choice they now simply had to figure out which children
and grandchildren they were going to lose what I mean and that is that is how we got to where we
are today because as long as Scientology destroys families I'm going to be on YouTube trolling
David Miscavige and exposing Scientology abuse wow and you know I never heard this part of your
story and this is just it's mind-blowing first of all I'm a mama's boy so don't tell me I can't
talk to my mom all right second of all you're not going to split up my family you're damn sure not
going to mess with my children and and try and manipulate so the first step proved it was a cult
to me and this is just like little things that you have to kind of hey my wife's not gonna you
know abort the child like to show you know is that okay is that okay with you guys I mean that you
know like that alone should tell you but the levels are insane and and now it all makes sense why you
are vocal now I want to I want to shift gears so that you have family has her oh goodness you
probably can't even say this on air I'm gonna say has her parents even tried but then again
the shackles that this cult can have sometimes that wouldn't occur I wouldn't want her parents to be
hurt because of something like this well I'll just say honestly that they never did
so they're they're completely drinking the Kool-Aid yeah wow and the grandkids same thing
the grandkids what so with the grandkids same thing like they've kind of divorced the grandbabies
on your guys your children from their lives as well okay okay that's that's wow all right now I have
another question you're vocal and they live like two miles away so these people that you knew of that
were declared who lack actually become apostates to Scientology your friends with these people now
I mean you're literally hanging out with you know all of these people are speaking out against it
how did it start how did you go all right damn it I'm tired of this it's time ladies and gentlemen
my name is a a Ron we ain't playing so you know how did it start what happened so it was actually
shortly after 2009 Marty Rathbin created a blog and I was I was anonymously posting on his blog at
that time I was you know secretly in touch with Marty at that time Mike Rinder later started a
blog I was in touch with Mike and remember there was that two-year period where my mom was declared
but I wasn't so you know my mom became good friends with Mike at that time so I'd met him a couple
times over at her house and things like that and and and you know I would say that Scientology
declared me for not disconnecting from my mom but one of the reasons they felt very justified
in doing so is because they had get they had also collected enough evidence that I was secretly in
touch with Mike and Marty and so I had so I had been in very good close touch with Mike and Marty
way before I officially got declared in 2014 now I started my YouTube channel either five years ago
seven years ago I lose track really not even as a never to speak out per se um I had already spoken
out on other platforms I wanted there to be a place that former Scientologists particularly
second generation Scientologists could tell their story in their own voice without it being edited
or moderated or platforms by people who'd never been in Scientology um or by people you know what
I mean like it's it's a little weird when the only way Scientologist stories can be told is by
non Scientologists and so um and so and actually Mike Rinder is one of the first people I interviewed
on my channel you know we did like several hours of interviews on my channel fascinating content
to yeah he's great and and then it wasn't really until um almost four months ago five months ago
maybe that I just decided that I wanted to put up a lot more content about Scientology just to make
interesting accessible funny um and and one of the because I'm going to mention the Aftermath
Foundation because I'm me and Mike Rinder and Louise Garcia and Mark and Claire Headley and
Christy Colburn you know we created the Aftermath Foundation to help people who are escaping from
Scientology and one of the benefits of putting up so much content on YouTube is that it helps get
the word out about the Aftermath Foundation it's why I promote it in every one of my videos even
if I don't specifically talk about it the socials that you'll see fly onto the the screen in the
beginning of my videos say that I'm the vice president of the Aftermath Foundation so the
existence of the Aftermath Foundation to me gives provides a benefit to putting up content because
um it's one of the ways the Foundation has been able to help so many people
is that Scientologists find out about it mostly through their family members friends and family
members who are not in like like if you run if you go down the Scientology rabbit hole you run
into my videos pretty darn quickly yeah yeah you watch a few of my videos you hear about the Aftermath
Foundation like we'll be contacted sometimes by non-Scientologists who are like look I'm in
touch with a Scientologist friend who's struggling they're leaving but they're afraid to reach out
to you guys because you know they think SPs are evil people a lot of the people we've been able
to help is through non-Scientologists being the conduit to Scientologists so um I that was sort
of my answer for one of the reasons I decided to just post something every day wow uh and and also
this isn't exactly what you asked but part of how I go about creating content is inspired by how I
consume content I watch a lot of YouTube I have a lot of favorite channels and almost no channel
posts seven days a week and every time I go to one of my favorite channels and they don't have new
content I'm a little sad and so I was like what if my gimmick is I'll be the channel who no one has
to come to my channel that day and be a little sad because there's not something new to watch
oh you post all right and just to give you a little pat on the back here your YouTube has I would say
really recognized you in the recent months I mean you've gone viral you went from I think the
when I first subscribed to you I don't want to exaggerate you had like 40,000 maybe 50,000
something like that and then boom you're like we're at now hundred and 115,000 practically I mean
you know you blown up which is really good we need more ex-scientologists people speaking out
and um I also want to say something I appreciate about appreciate about you with you blowing up
and stuff is that you're still giving voices to people that aren't they don't have that same
you know I've got all these followers I've got the support and that is something that I value
you're educating people you're helping non-scientologists realize we have a problem
specifically I know we have a problem in America with this with this cult but
I really really appreciate you this has been a heck of a story and um if anyone has a question
briefly you gotta you gotta shoot that super chat I did want to give a shout out real quick here
because we're wrapping up and you only have an hour so um Defa thank you so much for that
super chat I believe it is a super chat I did not see a comment or question just showing support
love to the channel seriously do appreciate that if we have any other questions make it quick
because we're about to roll out um Aaron question I have is for a while you use the intro the AA
Ron intro I love that what was the inspiration you just said dude my name is this is me like
it was funny because I've been doing my channel for many many years before I started doing that
intro what it really comes down to is I laugh every single time I watch it I watch that key and
peel skit hundreds of times even as I'm editing my video every time I watch it it cracks me up
and some people go it's getting really old like you don't have to keep doing it and I'm like guys
10 25 percent sometimes of all the views on my channel every single day is someone who's watching
it for the first time and it's still cracking me up I'm leaving it there I'm leaving it there for
ever I mean maybe I'll do different edits sometimes and try to mix it up but it's hilarious I can't be
the only one who laughs every single time I see it well that now they have the new skit which he is
in it too a Ron is in that one now too so you might have the rip from both who knows um this has
been fantastic did you have any questions that you uh you had for me or even uh remarks that you
feel like you need to tell our audience before we go maybe someone's struggling right now watching
this and they just can't speak out I don't know well I'm curious how did you first uh what was
your first time you dipped your toe into the Scientology content pool what was my first
impression no no what was the first your first foray into it on your channel what was the first
thing you did um the first thing I did on my channel was speak to ex Scientologist members
and specifically um we had Karen of course I have spoken to uh to Ron Hubbard or not Ron Hubbard
Ron Muscavige before he passed away which was really really powerful um it I that was pretty
much how I started it was like all right I'm doing a lot of cult material and it's not just
Scientology I was delving into uh Jehovah's Witnesses and I said hold on there's a lot of
wild crazy religious cults out there why am I not talking about this I had seen documentaries
you know there have been things out there that make you go this is crazy South Park's episode of
Xenu made me inspired like what in the world do you mean souls are planted next to the volcanoes
and like it made me go let me look into this further Mormonism you name it and uh I came
across Scientology and now I've been exploring it deeper yeah I mean I've seen you've done a lot
of content with Karen Karen De La Carriere um and I and I wondered have you ever interviewed Mike
Rinder as well yes okay cool very cool yeah yeah well I guess the last thing um people get a kick
out of this so Mike Rinder I said is on the board of the Aftermath Foundation one of the ways these
are Mike Rinder bobble heads wait I can never I can never get many Mike to look at the camera
correctly right these are like high quality these are made out of ceramic these are not plastic
anyway oh wow you can get these at the sp shop.com all of the proceeds from the sp shop go to the
Aftermath Foundation that helps people who are escaping from Scientology and I plug them so often
in my videos because Mark Headley who runs the sp shop ordered 500 of them and they're not doing
us any good on the shelves so uh get yourself a little Mike Rinder bobblehead today yeah I
Mike's amazing too you both are great I do want to also plug his book mentioning this was recently
this is so good and if you can't read it because it's paper or you don't have the time
get it on audible listen to it while you're driving are you ever planning on writing a book uh by the
way so there's one book idea that I have I just don't know how to execute it but so for the four
years that I was in the sea organization I kept digital copies of every single dispatch report
there's probably a dozen types of Scientology communications and reports I have well over
400 reports that chronologically sort of illustrate the craziness of what life is like in the sea
or even dispatches and I don't know of any such collection such as that and one of these days
I'll figure out how to do something with it like what I'm not planning on doing is writing a book
about my story and experience in Scientology I'm just not compelled to maybe I'll change my mind
one day but some some day I'm gonna have to figure out what to do with these reports because it really
paints the life I wrote tons of these things wow and it would paint a picture of really what it's
like to be in the sea or in the term from that time like not just remembering it but from that time
and uh that that's the best idea that I have for um a possible book at this point last question
because you're a vocal person there is a fear of Scientologists messing with people
who have platforms that can actually go above and beyond have you been fair game apart from
destroying the relationships between grandparents and stuff which I count as fair game within
Scientology have you had any fair gaming occur to you that you're aware of any
lawsuits anything at all that has tried to come after you since leaving and speaking vocally
um I mean the worst thing they've tried to do is is the website that they've put up so
erinsmithlevin.com is a hate website created by Scientology
well you made it up that's a good you that's a badge of honor right like and so the thing
about the websites is it's sort of like a perpetual fair game attempt where they can just
update it with this and update it with that what I will say is nothing they've attempted to do has
had any effect I've never lost business or money or partnerships or clients due to anything uh
Scientology related so they're really just spinning their wheels and spending their
money trying to accomplish a whole lot of nothing and it just doesn't bother me I mean
having peeked behind the curtain you know that it's that it's really it's quite a clown show
that they operate over there at Scientology Inc um and I think that they have more success
sort of psych oh sorry um sort of psychologically terrorizing non-Scientologists than they do
former Sierg members I think for the most part former Sierg members are like yeah there's really
nothing you can do or say to me that's gonna gonna get to me but you guys can keep trying
thank you so much go down in the description follow him on his twitter he has a facebook page of
course um public figure page also the youtube channel subscribe he's dropping content multiple
times sometimes in the same day every single day he's got shorts he's got lives he's got
pre-edited content you name it go support him check him out you can support us in the description
as well a aron or erin thank you so much for your time I really appreciate it my brother
my pleasure thanks never forget ladies and gentlemen we are myth fission
so
you
