We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
I'm your host, Derek Lambert.
We are dealing with the cult, yes I said, cult of Scientology.
With our special guest, Karen Delacrier,
how are you today, Karen?
Good, good.
Lovely to greet.
I missed you, Derek.
I missed you as well.
It's time that we did another recording.
You now live on the West Coast.
The West Coast.
You live in North Carolina.
You're in the Seattle, Washington area, right?
Yes, one three hours south of that, but either way.
I work in the main way.
Yes, and so today I want everybody to take a closer look
at her YouTube channel.
Please go subscribe to Surviving Scientology.
She has countless videos dealing with Scientology.
She had a child that she lost due to Scientology.
She continues to expose the nuttiness, craziness,
obsessive, cultic realities
in which this cult is still practicing harmful things.
It's not like they've reformed
and found a way to defame the horrific things they do.
They're master, they're leader, they're president.
Their dictator is still in charge
and the cult is still there even though it's slowly,
I hope, and continuously seeing dying off.
I hope it continues to do so.
Go check out some of our previous interviews as well
that we've done together there.
But show her some love, hit the bell,
subscribe, check out her videos.
But Karen, what are you bringing to us today?
Hello, everybody.
There's lots of hard developments.
So learn all about it on this show,
this hard development.
Three young Australian kids.
Velasco, Paris, going back to his wife, Laura,
were human trafficked on the ship Scientology
caused free wings, free-winged sales in the Caribbean.
And at a very young age,
these three kids had to do hard manual labor
with excruciating punishments if they did not obey.
So let's roll forward in time.
They put out a lawsuit on human trafficking,
slave labor, and the conduct.
The church took away their childhood.
And enslaved them.
The lawyer representing them, Neil Glacier,
just won gigantically on that cult
in Northern upstate New York called Nexvium.
I don't know if I'm pronouncing it right.
Nexvium made global headlines
because the founder Keith Renier
demanded sexual intercourse from the followers
and branded their thighs and inner legs
with a hot iron.
Talk about cult, this one.
But it was funded by a billionaires
of some big whiskey, alcoholic kind.
Anyway, it had funds.
And it went on and on.
Neil Glacier took them on.
He is now the lawyer representing Velasco
and the Baxter's.
Now, when you serve a lawsuit,
people who are interested parties,
defendants have to be served.
Otherwise they can say, I didn't even know.
I didn't know.
No one told me.
All hogwash.
Hogwash.
14 times Velasco's team tried to serve David Miscavige.
And the security guards would say,
oh, you don't know, he doesn't work here.
He doesn't live here.
This was all evading service.
They thought they could get away with it.
Well, here's the breaking news.
Judge Thomas Barba read this
and fed up with this ongoing cat and mouse game.
Oh, you can't serve David Miscavige.
He's not here.
He ordered the service to be done
and it can be done through the lawyers
or through publication, whatever.
He ordered it.
That's the end of David.
Now, for the first time, perfect, perfect picture.
In 30 years, David Miscavige has never, ever
been able to be served,
to be the interested party in a lawsuit.
He's now served.
You know why he's hiding so much, Derek?
He couldn't answer hard questions.
How can he answer?
How many times he punched, slapped,
punched people's noses had blood dripping down.
He slammed people against walls.
He punched them in the gut.
He can't, how can he answer such questions
in discovery of his brutality?
This guy was a mobster, a gangster, right?
He didn't even get a GED.
He was just a tug from Philadelphia, a gangster.
And he's the dictator of Scientology.
Any comments, Dave?
Any comments from you, Derek?
I have heard many, many accounts about David.
I am glad that they're finally cutting out the crap
and just going for the guy.
I'm sure he's going to evade a lot of issues if he can
when they get him into court
and actually try to address some problems.
But I am interested in seeing this whole cult fall apart.
I really do want to see it fall apart.
And just so I'm on the same page here,
Velasca Parris here, this is an image of her,
another one where she's on free winds.
And is this her in her uniform as a Scientologist?
Yeah, uh-huh.
Now, Velasca was kidnapped and imprisoned on free winds
to keep her away from her mom.
Her mother was also seal.
She escaped and fled and went on French national TV
talking about the exorcism of these attached spirits.
That's the main doctrine of Scientology.
Scientology is a bridge of different levels.
And from OT3 to OT8, really from earlier than that,
say OT1 to OT2 to OT8 is just exorcism levels.
You actually talk to your spirits.
You have conversations with them
before you jettison them out of your system.
And Scientology believes that they will make you a God.
We'll talk more about that later.
They will make you a high, powerful,
immortal spirit, invincible, a superman, superwoman.
But only they have the techniques to do it.
They're the only ones that know how to get you
to expel your attached spirits.
Right.
Right.
So Coltec, by the way, that they're the only one.
Oh, they're the only one.
Every other religion is phony, baloney, huffing, puffing.
They don't know what they're talking about.
The other religions are a scam.
We have the answers.
Hmm.
So Valeska was quickly shipped to free winds as imprisonment.
They've done this over and over again.
When they, you see a ship cruising the Caribbean,
registered, it's not even not registered
in any United States.
It's smoke and mirrors registered.
It's like internationally, technically.
No, there's some place where you can keep registering.
Anyway, the point is that they're out of jurisdiction
of the FBI, right?
The FBI can't just raid the ship.
No, Valeska was there for 12 years throughout her teenage
years and Scientology's responses to make a hate page
on her sick, or she's a liar, she's a liar, she's a liar.
They don't deny she was on free winds.
They even post pictures of her through the years
on free winds.
But so Scientology's defense against any heinous
accusation is they're lying.
They're lying.
That's it.
They don't get into specifics.
Derek, can you just read a little bit of blurb
of what they did to Valeska on free winds?
Absolutely.
So Valeska, Paris, around 2007,
I was confined in the extreme heat of the engine room
for about 48 hours.
I suffered a panic attack, went numb,
and was unable to move or call for help.
When an engineer discovered me,
he carried me to the control room
where I was denied medical treatment.
I was berated for overreacting
and sent back to the engine room.
About two weeks later,
when I was again confined to the engine room
as punishment and lost consciousness due to the heat
and enclosed conditions,
I did not seek medical care
because I was afraid of being punished.
I tried again to leave the ship.
Upon learning that I wanted to leave,
the senior officer in charge of discipline informed me
that I was going to be declared a suppressive
for being uncooperative.
And she removed me from my dorm
and escorted me to a cabin monitored by a camera
where I was placed under around the clock surveillance.
I was then forced to go back to work
in the hot confines of the engine room
and be interrogated daily for the next three months.
At that point, I was so desperate to get off the ship
that I contemplated suicide.
Unfortunately, I was sent somewhere worse.
I was sent to an RPF site in Australia,
a prison camp to be rehabilitated.
I was prohibited from bringing most of my belongings
and they made me pack a bag in the hallway
in front of a camera to make sure
I did not take more than they permitted.
While packing, I was approached by a security officer
and an FSSO officer, oh, official,
who told me that I needed to come with them.
I was also instructed to put on makeup.
We went to a room where there was a video camera
and a total of four people, including security,
an ethics officer, and FSSO representatives.
They told me that I had to sign the documents in front of me.
I was not given sufficient time to read through the documents
nor was I permitted to take the documents to review
or have someone like an attorney help me understand them.
And I was afraid that asking questions
about the documents would lead to further punishment.
Yes.
The engine room punishment was the worst of the worst.
Oxygen breathing was very low.
I know of another South African girl.
People would literally go unconscious.
When you were sent to the engine room,
you were supposed to chip paint or clean the metal,
R, after R, after R, after R.
In this dark, smelly lack of oxygen space,
right down, down, down, down in the bowels of the ship.
And this is the way Scientology treats its stuff.
The whip you obey or else.
And people live in fear of this kind of punishment.
They live in fear.
You know, she's fearful.
In her little write up to the court where she says it,
Valeska was made to go unconscious at least three times,
maybe four times by just, she would just pass out.
She could have done, she, nobody even noticed
because she was just lying there unconscious.
Now let's take a look at this, Derek.
Scientology huffs and puffs of how they handle
your trauma and unconsciousness.
That's what they sell.
We're going to let you run through your anesthesia.
We're going to run through that time you passed out
and we're going to revitalize you.
And here they're making an inducing unconsciousness.
Any comment?
The whole thing is just insane.
Project.
Yeah.
How in the world, how in the world did the IRS
give this monster tax exemption?
That's something also that I definitely want to
take a deep dive with you on.
I mean, do you want to go into that here?
I'd like to give you some highlights,
but it's worthy of a show in itself.
They blackmail and bullied the IRS to get this.
It's just amazing.
Cause this is a lost government agency, right?
With tens of thousands of staff.
And you know what they did?
Scientology has little satellite spin off, not spin off.
They're actually, they call themselves churches
or organizations and they've dotted around
all over the place.
Some of them are just an apartment,
a room in the second floor.
Someone's wanting to preach it or give counseling.
So they have them dotted all over.
So they've got 2,500 different people
to file lawsuits on the IRS.
2,500, you know, every little town in multiple states.
So now the IRS have 2,500 lawsuits from Scientology.
When you get a lawsuit, you have to respond.
You can't run away because you have to then
use your resources, use your lawyers,
use your energy, time, money, effort.
And this is what David Miscavige.
The IRS issued letters, recognizing Scientology
and every one of its organizations
has fully tax exempt the war is over.
He did a video of triumph,
which was called, the war is over.
Look at the wording.
He called the IRS battle of war.
And in this triumph video,
he says that he and his assistant, Harding Rathburn,
just arrived at the IRS,
rang the bell at the door,
rang the IRS rang the bell at the main headquarters
and said, we want to see the commissioner,
the IRS commissioner, that's the guy right on top.
And they let them in.
This is according to Miscavige, I'll send you the code.
And they went to the office and they sat down
and said, you know what?
We'll evaporate the 2,500 lawsuits
or make it all go away.
Let's be friends, but we want IRS tax exemption.
Not only did they have 2,500 lawsuits,
they individually plucked out high execs in the IRS
and individually sued them.
Plus they organized bundles of people
waiting outside main IRS offices
like in Fresno, California.
And when they would come out for lunch,
they would have huge signs
of great malicious bad language,
calling them all kinds of names.
So it was orchestrated from many sides,
individual lawsuits.
So what David Miscavige tells the head honcho,
we'll make it all go away.
We'll stop all the demonstrations outside IRS buildings.
We'll withdraw all the lawsuits on your main executives.
We'll withdraw the 2,500, just give us tax exemption.
So the deal was struck, but do you see how?
Manipulative, it's the whole thing.
Yeah, that's like mob mentality.
If we don't get our way, we will get our way.
And they got their way and that's just mind boggling.
And now I'm hoping people like Valeska Paris
and others are gonna cause a re-examination
that reverses this kind of role.
I mean, it's a facade.
This doesn't look like a real religion.
I mean, I'm not gonna say,
maybe I should word this a different way.
I think that if organizations like this
can have tax exemption,
do you know how many other organizations on the world
should have tax exemption then?
So if we're not gonna be fair to everyone
having tax exemption, especially not a cult like mob,
you know, then what are we doing here?
I mean, we're really giving these people free reign
to keep growing and trying to do more manipulative stuff.
It's in their L. Ron Hubbard scripture,
if I could use the term.
Yeah, that's a good point.
You know, it's very easy in America to start a religion.
You can go to the church of Derek Lambert,
the Christian church of Derek's revelations.
And you could just act,
because of this very loosey-goosey freedom of religion.
You can start, you know, the Jedi's have a religion?
Yeah.
There are more Jedi's in the United Kingdom
than there are Scientologists.
Yeah, well, the Jedi's are cooler though, let's be honest.
Well, you can start, you can file,
and you can, you've got to meet some criteria.
You've got to have like some doctrines,
and then you've got to have some precepts
like thou shalt not kill.
You can invent your own,
thou shalt not smoke weed more than 10 times a day.
You're as long as you have to.
You have to have some precepts.
You have to have some doctrines.
And then you have to have a congregation.
You can whip up, you've got tons of friends.
You've got to whip up a few church services,
you know, and you can preach anything in the church service.
You can preach the goodness of artificial intelligence
as the new robots that should be bound to.
As long as you have doctrines.
Right.
And we're like, did you know that?
Yeah, oh yeah.
You can start a church.
Yep.
Right.
Now, giving tax exemption to something like that is silly,
especially,
Scientology make it a practice of being abusive.
And my button, my biggest button on them
is the degree of abuse they get away with.
You talk to all kinds of academics
and university professors
and people that know the Bible inside out, upside down
and are learning people on spirituality
and religions and stuff.
What?
What is this level of abuse fit in
with all these churches and evangelicals and spin-offs?
Talk to me, Derek.
How can they call themselves a church?
A user?
You know, there are very old outdated,
if you will, models that still get used today.
For example, in extreme circles of Islam,
you know, extreme versions of cults,
we've found out the FLDS has had some wild sexual claims
that have been done to them.
And this is in the category of extremism.
So like, I wouldn't even put this in the same category
as like regular, typical religion.
There are various degrees of harmful beliefs
that are out there, I'm sure.
But this is something that you would imagine,
the actual mob would do something like this.
I mean, obviously, eventually things got so bad
that a lot of the mob took Tommy guns
and went downtown in New York
and just started shooting people up.
But my point is, is like the level of conspiracy
that goes into their going against the IRS,
even before that, when they got caught with documents
from the government and things,
like you would imagine that there would be some government
official or government agency
that would be aware of stuff like this
and find a way to like knock this down.
But as far as all the professors I speak to,
I can't think of a single one
who after hearing the things you're describing
and investigating this would go,
oh yeah, this is good, none, none.
I don't care if there's a placebo effect
on when you enter the door
and they promise you the whole world,
you could do that with anything.
There are advertisers on,
they get 30 second windows on TV
who give you a placebo effect about their medication
with this will cure such and such,
side effects will be diarrhea,
but my point is like, they whisper the side effects.
In this case, they're not telling you
any of these side effects,
they want you only to think of the good.
And every academic I know would be like,
this is horrible, this is not good.
Yes, thank you, Derek.
You mentioned, why isn't there an oversight?
Why isn't there somebody?
Let me tell you that the IRS
went through a reorganization,
government huge, bloated bureaucracies.
Look at how they now have hometown,
they have homeland security, right?
They have to redo the immigrant,
they used to call it immigration and naturalization.
They reconstruct, when the IRS did a reconstruction,
it took away some big VP,
we would call it in the corporate world,
the vice president for,
technology vice president for them.
They took away the VPs,
they don't call them VPs, the IRS,
but they took away the head honchos in certain divisions
and they took away the watchdogs
on 501 seat three abuse.
Doesn't exist, there's no one home.
They never then were punished and put back someone
to look over so currently,
any entities that are flagrantly not,
that are being criminal,
as well as having IRS tax exemption,
like you say, being gangsters,
but tax exempt gangsters, tax exempt gangsters.
Under the guise of religion,
because they have some cuckoo wild philosophy
and science fiction belief system
that is built off of Elron Hubbard's imagination.
Yeah, crazy.
You know, Derek, there's hardly a single day
where a new person doesn't come out with revelations.
And believe me, the IRS are deluged with reports, deluge.
Although the IRS try to shrug off criminal reports
and say, look, report this to the FBI,
they want to dump it.
FBI investigates criminal.
We're just lawyers and CPAs, you know,
but the IRS does continuously get shamed
for granting the cult tax exemption.
It's their shame.
And the newer generation of IRS agents,
because that was in 1995, they got tax exemption.
How long ago is that, Derek?
Almost 20 years, about 17 years ago.
No, 1994.
Oh, I'm sorry, almost 30, almost 30 years,
but I mean like 27 years ago, yeah.
So a lot of that regime are long gone,
but because they were so, you know,
the IRS newer generation,
don't forget the demonstrations with hideous placards
and this technique of suing IRS agents individually.
The IRS is not a friend to the cult of Scientology.
But all these videos and everything Mike Rinder does,
did you know Mike Rinder's new book arrives in?
I'm going to be interviewing him about it.
Yes.
I'm excited.
That's really good.
Everybody is just waiting for this book
because he knew a lot.
And I will just end off this segment
because we're doing a second video to tell you that
Mike Rinder and Marty were texting two IRS agents
multiple times a day
and a raid on the campus was imminent.
And then it all went wrong.
By accident, the author of the book going clear, leaked.
This, I think on Twitter or something,
leaked something and it just blew up.
And the two agents who were taking all this data
of what was going on at the hierarchy,
they were shipped off to North Dakota,
buying marines into the movies of nowhere.
And that was the end of that.
It was an almost,
the IRS were almost going to the IRS, the department,
no, they were texting the Department of Justice.
I'm sorry, I'm getting this all wrong.
They were texting FBI,
it was FBI that was going to do the raid.
But you know, FBI, IRS,
they all intertwined in terms of sharing data.
So the FBI were incredibly briefed on the madness.
It was like one flew over the cuckoo's nest.
Ms. Kavich was literally an insane,
there was a Roman Caesar who was very, very cruel.
Caligula.
Caligula, who granted his horse,
our Senate, well,
David Ms. Kavich is a sort of Caligula
in the way he treats people.
And he can't take it back.
You can't unring the bell.
Anyway, so we're into right now Scientology.
I'm going to end the self by saying Scientology is fighting.
Three civilian lawsuits, two criminal lawsuits there.
These five lawsuits have bubbled up
and are front and center,
all starting around the 11th of October.
Today is the 18th of September, that's 10.
So in about 20 days,
the volcanoes start bubbling up
with revelations and explosions.
And that's why I feel Scientology is on a precipice.
They cannot hide their misconduct.
They can no longer hide.
Ms. Kavich has to be on the stand to answer hard questions.
My friend, this book comes out and these lawsuits,
day after day after day,
the dirt will be exposed for the world
to read and learn.
And I'm so glad you've given them a little teaser
in this video of what's about to happen in 20 days time.
Fasten your safety belt, brace for impact.
It's happening.
Thank you so much, Karen.
This is going to be, Tony, keep your eyes open on the news.
Keep checking in.
We're going to keep dropping content.
If anything crazy happens, we're going to jump on it.
So you will be able to be able to see what's going on.
Hear what's happening on the ground.
We are connected with other people who are involved
and make sure you go subscribe to her YouTube channel
because she's also going to be wanting
to put the content out there.
So hit the bell so you're notified
anytime she drops a new clip.
And Karen, you're an OG, as we call it.
Somebody who's an original gangster
in terms of being a follower
who was on the boat with Elron Hubbard.
You know what you're talking about.
Your husband was very important in this.
You've lost a child because of this
and you've spent your years exposing the cult.
And of course, let's see what happens.
In the next month,
I'm interested to see what happens with this cult.
Great.
Absolutely.
Well spoken, Derek.
You just say so much in a few words.
Well done.
Good job.
Thank you.
Thank you, Karen.
I feel so enrooting for all these people trapped in this.
They trapped in there in person.
And I feel that you really want their freedom.
Oh, yeah.
It's the end for the greater good for all.
Thank you, Derek.
Thanks a million.
Take care.
Bye-bye.
