We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
I'm your host, Derek Lambert.
We have with us our special guest, Karen de la Carrière.
Welcome back to MythVision.
Derek.
Lovely to see you.
Good to see you as well.
Thank you.
Look, I'm letting the winter fur just crawl out of me.
This is a very important topic that we're going to talk about today.
Five critical, crucial points about the Masterson case and Danny Masterson, for those who are
interested in knowing.
That's 70's show, Danny Masterson, and how this plays in the Scientology.
What has happened?
Give us the details, the stuff that you're not going to hear them really openly express
in court.
And of course, we have some very close friends that are in the courtroom that are actually
taking notes of what's happening here.
Tony Ortega.
Tony Ortega.
And he will come on MythVision at some point to tell us what happened and what's going
on when this all settles.
So Karen, tell us what you've brought for us today.
Okay, let's start off with what is the Danny Masterson suit about and why is there so much
buzz about it?
Three rape victims surfaced years later, Alex, because the cult would not let all Scientologists
go to law enforcement.
Now all three reported the same thing, Danny Masterson, take this drink, have a drink, chill
out, have a drink.
And as soon as they took the drink, they got a kind of fuzzy brain fog.
Mentally, they felt strange.
And subsequently, they were dragged up to an upstice bedroom and violent sex occurred
in the anus which cores, tears in the anus, the rectum, and blood to flow out.
Now, people have said to me incorrectly, oh, that's his modus operandi.
He gets a woman, he drugs her, he takes her.
No, I want to clarify the difference between a signature and a fingerprint and modus operandi.
Modus operandi keeps changing and is an evolution of modus operandi.
Modus operandi isn't the same on every crime.
Let's take an example.
A guy finds out that DNA can trace him.
So he forces the woman to take a long shower after his rape time.
And he's absolutely sure DNA has been, plus he's worn gloves.
So then if he knows he can be caught by leaving touch DNA, he wears gloves and cover.
So every time he proceeds to the next crime, he doesn't have the same modus operandi.
He's gotten smarter.
He now changes.
If breaking open through a window had so much glass splinter and so much noise,
he uses a glass cutter the next break in here.
So the modus operandi is constant change.
The signature and the fingerprint is the same.
In Danny Masterson, getting hold of a pretty young thing, a wannabe actress Hollywood is full of them.
They flood from all of the country to try and see if they can make it in Hollywood.
So the fingerprint and signature was get one of these girls and then do.
It's a horrible thing to say.
He called himself donkey DJ, a donkey punch.
No, donkey punch DJ.
Donkey punch is like a donkey ramming your behind.
Oh, that happens, Derek.
Apparently the muscles contract when there's pain.
That's how equity.
Equipment works.
The muscles contract is a pain of the needle.
But apparently this is a very good sensation for the male organ contracting like that.
It gives this sensation.
If I may, so Danny, so according to what is going on here, it seems like he has this fetish that he has to fulfill.
And he's drugging women just to wrap like what you just said in a nutshell is he has instead of just communicating with a female about, hey, are you into rough stuff or whatever.
He has to drug them, rape them, and then has the support of the cult, I suspect as we're leading there to defend and protect its members and not just any member.
Remember, we've talked, you've taught us so well about Tom Cruise, Karen.
They make sure that their gods are taken care of.
And if they're somebody like a celebrity, as Elron Hubbard says in his policies, you better make sure that you take extra care of these people.
You got it.
You got it.
You made it.
So Danny Masterson was in the cult of 40 years, the cult which claims high spiritual ethics, high spiritual morality, and claims that if you don't have it, the media will detect it.
And cathartically get it out of you and make you a better human being, give us the cash to correct your evil ways.
40 years in the cult.
And the cult didn't know he was doing all this.
I was just about to ask you this, and this is your opinion.
I mean, it's not based off no data, but this is your opinion, but I'd like to get your opinion on this, Karen.
Do you think Danny Masterson's, this fetish of his, do you think it's been documented by the Scientologists?
Do you think that they've actually got it documented somewhere?
But because of this case, it's burned the files and the ones that may need to be kept at the end of the day are probably buried underground in a deep vault somewhere by, you know, you know how he thinks.
So do you think they know about this?
Like without a doubt, they know.
This is a snitching culture.
This is everybody's title on everyone.
Wow.
There are loads of what's called knowledge reports sitting right there.
Loads of people report.
People said she said to me that she had, she couldn't even walk the next day.
Her butt was so painful.
She couldn't use her butt for natural human, the cause of nature.
It's painful.
You can't expel what the body needs.
But here's the thing.
You, you mentioned the fetish.
His fetish needed to have sex with semi-conscious or unconscious women.
That that's actually a fetish.
The worst level above that is having sex with dead bodies.
Exactly.
Have sex with a cold dead body that can't respond.
That can't, you know, there's no love in it.
And that's a fetish.
So just below having sex with a dead body is sex with an unconscious body.
I'm wondering, I'm wondering, and I know that like this is me guessing I am no expert in this.
But if that fetish is what he has, I wouldn't be surprised if he has fought the tendency of that beyond.
I'm not going to say that I can't rule that and say that he does wish that they were completely not alive or something.
But it's like how, you know, it's not that far off from that reality.
In fact, when we watch cases like the recent Jeffrey Dahmer case,
he literally in every single case drugged them with sleeping medicine,
which I think in Masterson's case, it was a, it was more like a date rate drug,
but he drugs them.
And then when they're unconscious or asleep, that's when he gets off.
He does his stuff.
So I, can you imagine the comparison?
Here we have Jeffrey Dahmer and here we have Danny Masterson.
Do you want to be that close to a guy like that?
And then as a cult, do you really want to defend someone who has these kind of tendencies?
I couldn't believe that this would go to trial.
I thought the Scientology knows how intro woven they are with this because they blocked these girls from reporting to law enforcement.
Scientology vehemently disallows you to report criminal acts by Scientologists,
even gross ones like pedophiles, you know, having sexual stuff going on with children under seven years old and stuff.
You are forbidden.
You will be declared suppressive person for turning in a criminal to law enforcement.
Scientologists try, they try to deny this daily, but it's in their Elron Hubbard list of suppressive acts.
A suppressive act.
If you do that, you can be cut off from your family, friends tossed out into the world and just,
and it's in the, it's in the list of suppressive acts.
You cannot report all crimes must be handled internally.
That's central.
Now all these girls, some of these, some of these rapes were 20 years ago and that or less maybe 18,
but because of the timeframe, we're coming to point number two of the five critical points.
And many people don't know this.
Two of the three victims who very explicitly told about the forced sex and the pain and the bleeding.
Two of the three have to be found credible.
And Danny has to be found guilty.
If only one was found credible and the other two were not, he gets off scot-free because of the statute of limitations.
So two of the three must be found.
Two of the three accusations, the jury must come back guilty.
If it's three of the three, wonderful.
But if two of the three were not found credible, the biggest problem is, why did all these years go by?
Now we come to fact.
Yeah, because years went by because they were forbidden and blocked and threatened with suppressive person to declare if they went to law enforcement.
We've seen that before, right, where women would speak up later.
And in some cases you kind of look at it afterwards and you go, yeah, maybe some girls did make up some stuff for the claim to fame.
But in this case, these were girls who are already in Hollywood.
What's their claim to fame?
I mean, they're already rising stars trying to work within the framework of Hollywood.
And you're 100% right in all the testimonies that I've heard and seen with ex-scientologists and people that are obviously in it.
They're not going to talk and they're not going to be allowed to if you don't want to be chased around and harassed.
And they were already experiencing this on top of being suppressed to being able to speak as you talk about.
Oh, these brave girls, wonderful girls.
Because in spite of everything the cult threatened and warned them, they still went to police and still gave their stories.
And then a wonderful fourth girl came out of the blue, blue sky.
Forget her name. She gave her full name. She didn't need to be a Jane Doe. She gave her name to Tony.
And she had the fingerprinting signature that I explained all that to you.
And she, and this was just a few years ago, and she's not suing for money.
The other three have a civil suit. Remember how O.J. had the criminal suit and then the civil suit.
So the cult are saying, they just want money. They just want money from him.
Well, the fourth girl has no interest in money.
And she had the exact fingerprint, the drink, going woozy and then going beyond woozy into a brain fog and having no determination.
You're floating and anyone can drag you anywhere or drop you anywhere.
You have no will. Your will is gone with the trade front.
So she went up and the defense attorney for Danny Masterson screamed and tried to keep her up because she doesn't have any fish to fry.
She's not asking for money. She just came forward because that's exactly what happened to her with Danny Masterson.
So now the defense changed their strategy.
Instead of saying it's money, it's just money. They just want money.
The defense said, oh, oh, it was consensual.
So he changed from blaming these girls came forward for cash to saying it was consensual.
You never mentioned consensual in the first parts of the trial. Suddenly it was consensual. The girls wanted.
I'm curious to know how that would work against him, number one, and how they thought that would work for them.
Because in my mind, you went from to the point where they're bleeding. I mean, if this is the way they detailed their testimony, right?
And they're drugged like we're consensually drugged and according to the narrative unconscious while these deeds or acts are taking place on us coercing his will upon their lack of will.
And yet this is consensual. I'm curious to know how a defense case could win something like that. I just don't know how that would be.
Well, it baffles us because they didn't come up with a verdict.
They came out just before the Thanksgiving thing to say they couldn't.
Now we don't know if it was one holdout 11 to one. We don't know.
It has to be old fault in agreement.
So we thought, oh my God, because the judge kept saying this will be done by the 18th whatever she predicted before Thanksgiving.
And they couldn't agree. And we were thinking, what?
After these girls who walked on the stand and told the story explicitly, they couldn't act like that.
It was, it was painful to Tony did all the debriefs. Tony Ortega is the he's been there every square inch of the trial.
I'm curious and I do this because of what I've heard enough about the reputation of Scientology.
I'm curious if they are in some way shape or form, finding out who these jury are and trying to pay them off or trying to find a way to like manipulate.
Just because they've been known, this has been a track record of theirs to manipulate illegal stuff with FBI back in the day.
There's a CIA, I can't remember, to the notion of, you know, people that they harass or try to silence in any way shape or form that they can.
It makes me wonder if they're trying to find, I don't know, I'm a little bit conspiracy theorist on this because unless you can't know.
Derek, there is nothing on earth, the cult wouldn't do criminal or not to make the cult of Scientology survive better.
Nothing, nothing.
In fact, it's worded like it's the greatest good.
Scientology is so much goodness that you destroy Scientology. That's harmful.
Therefore, if you're doing a criminal act, you're actually doing good because you're protecting your goodness.
So it's all upside down curvy.
Now, here we move on to the more religious because your channel is so much to do with spirituality, eternal life, Jesus, the Bible.
The Scientology cult made the girls believe one after another.
This was a signature, a fingerprint of the cult that they themselves were to blame.
Not Danny Masterson.
Right.
We went to different ethics offices and the ethics office.
And this is typical Scientology. What did you do to pull that in?
Right.
Make that happen. This is a big Scientology doctrine.
Now, I understand the concept of taking responsibility for your own actions.
But Derek, in all these academics and professors and high guys of wisdom that talk to you and enhance your channel, do you get doctrines where if evil is done to you?
In fact, in Scientology, they subject them to ask, who did you rape in an earlier life?
Right.
Who did you rape?
You're only getting raped because you did it.
Now, give me a little blurb about your high wisdom academics that I admire.
I listen to here and there.
I listen to little nuggets of wisdom.
What is there in doctrines of other religions?
Point the finger right back.
You were raped.
Did you wear really short skirts and flirt with him before he took you upstairs to the bedroom?
Write up all your crimes in the area of sex to find out why this happened to you.
This is the cult of Scientology.
Can you talk on that?
Yes, so a couple of things.
There are things that get interpreted that way.
There are places where the woman sinned in the garden, not the man.
And this is in the New Testament.
So when sexual sins or things happen, ultimately, who ate that apple first?
The woman, depending on who's reading this text and how they interpret these things.
But it's kind of funny that you led the way that you did because I recently interviewed an escapee, if you will.
She didn't have to literally escape that way.
But with her life, she was raised and grew up in this specific reformed Christian cult.
And I call it a cult because in the same cult, vice did a deep dive interviewing and going into some of the members of the church.
One of the husbands of the wife was being abusive to her, even using like beer bottle on her downstairs.
I'm going to use terms like that.
Forcing himself on her because a husband cannot rape his wife.
Her body is his.
So he's allowed to do with her whatever he wants.
And she's supposed to comply.
Well, when this wife...
In Christian religion?
No, not all.
Not all.
This is a specific cult.
Like most Christians, most Christians are like, no, but there are certain types of very fundamentalist type of groups that are cult like.
And in those, this is how they see it because the man is the head over the woman's body and she is his.
And so they interpret this and they take it so far that like, you better listen to what he has to say and do what he tells you to do.
So the good wife who's obeying the head of the household and the head of the man.
It's Christ the way they interpret this.
But look, this is where it gets weird, right?
So this woman leaves him and she gets contacted by other women in the cult.
Blaming her and saying to her, you do know now he's going to turn to pornography and he's going to masturbate and sin because you're not giving him your body to use.
That's how they saw it in the cult.
Now someone on the outside is going to go, are you nuts?
What is wrong with you?
He's physically assaulting her.
He's hurting her.
She doesn't want to tonight.
He forces himself on her.
She doesn't want to one of these nights.
She's tired.
She's been taking care of the kids all day.
She's worn out.
She's worked around that.
That doesn't matter.
He forces himself on her.
You're supposed to take it.
And the women in the cult are blaming her for him possibly turning to other forms of ways of getting off.
That's an analogy.
It's just one.
I'm certain there are many more, but it's what came to mind when you gave this point.
What's so strange is that they're finding a way to make reincarnation the excuse.
They're like the weirdest thing that Scientology is doing is trying to like say, ah, you know what, the reason you were raped is because you must have raped someone before.
And so don't you see you're the one to blame?
And it's just, it's another form of you ate the fruit.
It's another form of it's your fault because you ate the fruit.
Don't blame him.
Well, that, that explained a lot.
I can see how it's, it's a backflip.
Now, I had a couple of reporters, reporters call me all the time, sometimes just to corroborate the data.
My two reporters call me and say, Karen, is it true that Scientology says there is no such thing as rape?
And I thought, wow, of all the things.
First of all, Hubbard did not say it's not in the doctrines.
However, the ethics officers are loosey goosey.
They can, these are little judges on your morality and ethics.
And it's true.
Ethics officers did say to these Jane Doe's, you're a girlfriend.
There's no such thing as rape.
You are having intercourse with him frequently.
Rape is just, and this all came up and caught and it struck reporters enough.
I want to tell you something.
This is being watched by the world.
When the buzzer went, they thought the jury had a verdict, but the jury wanted to see Jane Doe ones or three testimony one, one more time they wanted a reread.
But the reporters thought, oh, it's a verdict.
22 reporters crowded some of these watching this trial daily.
Variety magazine, Los Angeles Times, four, let me tell you who they are.
All the major newspapers, New York Times, Rolling Stone, Hollywood Reporter, the big magazines that flood the world with media, people magazine.
Every magazine of any that you can just think of.
I go blank on names.
Okay, I get it.
The major media of the world were there to hear the verdict.
And Scientology is deeply embroiled.
They're embroiled.
These are Scientologists.
They were forbidden by the little judges called ethics officers.
They were forbidden.
And in spite of that, in spite of maybe losing all their friends and all, they all went along.
They finally could not let this get a free pass.
Right.
But I like, I like to how you, I'd forgotten about Adam and Eve.
It's true.
Eve took the first bite of the apple.
And biblically, sin only started with after the bite of the apple.
Well, that's the interpretation of, but here's the thing.
When you look at Genesis, if we get technical, Genesis doesn't say she ate alone.
It says that the man with her.
So it is not like only Eve's fault, but of course you have to blame her.
Of course.
Because when the, when the, when they are standing in front of the judge in Genesis, which is God, right?
And he comes in and he goes, Hey, Adam, where are you?
And he says, I'm over here.
I'm naked.
I don't want to be seen.
Who told you you were naked?
And then he's like, he points to the woman and what does Adam do?
Blame the woman from the very beginning.
It's the woman you gave me.
And then when she gets on the front, she doesn't blame her husband.
She blames the snake.
She's like, you know, so anyway, I thought it was good for food and, you know, and she's not wrong about that, by the way.
But that's a whole nother, not for this episode discussion.
At the end of the day, though, it has honestly been used to subjugate women, to silence their voice, to control their acts.
And at the end of the day, it's mythology.
Don't take it literal.
It's, it's just a story to try and describe.
Why do we die?
Why are women in pain when they get pregnant?
And it's, it's just, you know, an old story.
Don't take it too serious.
That's what I try to tell people.
They take it too serious.
And then if they do that, we end up in situations where you blame your wife or you, you know, this or that.
And we got to do better.
We got to do better.
You know, you explained to me in Middle Eastern countries, men are allowed to just beat up on their wives in certain countries.
And I often wondered why in the world is law enforcement.
That's a 911 call in America.
And now you explained it to me.
The body is owned by the male in that theology.
Yeah.
And at one point in America, there were laws where you could take your wife to the courthouse and actually spank her, discipline her on the, at the courthouse.
There were laws where you could.
Now that didn't mean people actually went down.
All right, come on, honey.
You weren't acting good.
They probably just did it at the house, but there it was built into the theology because that man is the head of the wife.
And that doesn't mean it's right.
It just means this is the way that people have interpreted these things.
And it's a patriarchal system.
The whole thing is patriarchal.
There are various forms of it that are uglier and that still manifests itself in various places in the world where that stuff can be practiced at like little cults that have bubbles like Scientology where there's no way to pierce that bubble.
I mean, unless someone comes out of the bubble as these girls did to speak, how are we going to see?
We don't have cameras in there.
We don't have voice recorders.
We are able to see what's going on in these prison camps and things.
You have to hear people that are survivors like Mike and you and others that are ex-scientologists saying, you have no clue.
He was punching us.
He was beating the shit out of me.
He made me have to leave the cult or I was going to get locked up in another prison somewhere and the key would have maybe been thrown away.
Like his wife who was manipulated.
And you know, I'm talking about David Miscavige now.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, she's brainwashed the core.
I can't imagine that they haven't had plenty of time to get her to say, jump.
And she says, how high?
You know.
Yeah.
Just to show you how entangled the Danny Masterson lawsuit is with Scientology was this whole flare up of Lisa Marie Presley, the daughter of Elvis Presley.
By the way,
I was the counselor of Lisa Marie Presley.
From the, from when she was 10 years old.
I gave her grade one, grade, grade zero, grade zero to four at Celebrity Center.
When it was on La Brea.
Poor girl.
Her mother would drive up in a car and drop her off.
Handle her.
Lisa.
Handle her.
Her mother would say, and she was for long. You know, she had discovered Elvis Presley's dead body, which had fallen over the toilet.
Imagine discovering your own father dead when you're nine years old.
You know.
Oh, poor baby. She was.
She was a lovely child.
She was a lovely child.
She was forced or coerced because her mother said, you are to do this.
So every day, every day she was dropped off.
Priscilla really believed in it.
Anyway, Lisa Marie Presley, not to go off on a tributary.
She was used by the cult of Scientology.
To try and persuade one of the Jane Doe's.
To not go to law enforcement.
To report the rape.
She, they really didn't want this celebrity.
Why would Scientology jeopardize it?
They'll lie, cheat, steal, do harm. They'll do anything to protect themselves.
Why would they protect Danny? It doesn't make sense.
Well, one of the theories I will tell you is,
Danny has wealthy relatives.
He has just cousins and uncles and aunts and in-laws by the Gazoo.
And they're all high rollers in the cult.
Really?
This is a whole network of...
They've all been patron, meritorious and patron, glory or, glory or a torus.
All these names that they've invented to give you the status
depending on how much money you've given the cult.
So, these relatives are all embedded in the...
If they expelled Danny or kicked him out,
they could theoretically lose and money's getting tight for them.
They could lose a lot of fabiolus, meritorious, platylemus.
Yeah, their connection to the cult is based on his celebrity status in a sentence too.
And you kind of wonder about the reverse happening.
Like, if they end up kicking him out because they don't want to be too close to the fire,
Danny might turn and go,
you know what, I got screwed over by my family and it's time to just speak out
and everyone turned against me.
You want to hear some stuff?
I bet you he has some stuff he could say.
I'm pretty sure that any celebrity has some things that they could say.
Leah did.
I know for a fact Tom would.
So imagine what Masterson has.
And you kind of wonder, but yeah, I think you're right.
You know, they've got something to lose big time in clout within Scientology.
But day after day after day, Scientology.
Not being allowed to report to law enforcement.
Law enforcement is watching all this.
There were several police officers that testified.
Did you know?
No.
We had detectives.
On behalf of the girls?
No, on behalf of the prosecutor.
Like they were on the side of the girls.
On the side of the girls.
Exactly.
Because these girls went to them and gave the story.
So they were, they were, they were there justifying on all of this.
Wow.
You know, LAPD were right there, you know, in the court.
Now back to Lisa.
Oh, what a.
They dragged money out of her when she inherited when Lisa,
when Elvis Presley Enterprises gobs of money was made on his.
Memphis, Tennessee, Graceland.
And they just leeched money out of.
Priscilla and Lisa Marie.
And Lisa Marie is a sex book poster child.
Of how Scientology fails.
She went back on drugs numerous times.
She had done fewer numerous times.
She had all this auditing and then she slowly started saying,
you know,
She made it quite clear that she was departing Scientology.
She did something and then she's did a song.
You ain't seen nothing yet.
Meaning you ain't seen nothing yet of what I'm going to do to Scientology.
And let me jump in and tell you one more incredulous thing that Lisa Marie.
Good girl.
What a.
What a whistleblower.
She called up Kim Masterson of the Los Angeles Times.
He's retired now, but he was, he had two Pulitzer Prizes.
He was a great, great reporter.
And Lisa Marie was talking almost daily to David Miscavige's father.
Ron Miscavige, who you've had on your channel.
Didn't you have Ron Miscavige on your channel?
Yes, and he was an amazing guest.
I tell you, the fucking Church of Scientology is one of the most clever toxic organizations
probably that's ever existed.
Well, Lisa and Ron Miscavige were buddies, buddies, good friends.
And Lisa would talk to him constantly.
And you know, when the cult put in two hired guns to tail him everywhere in Wisconsin,
and one day some neighbors reported suspicious vehicles hovering around Ron Miscavige's home.
The police department went there, they opened the trunk, and there was an arsenal of firearms,
but one was highly suspicious.
What's the name of a gun which is muscled so you don't hear the sound?
Like a silencer?
Silencer! Jesus!
Why can't I remember?
I'm not in the gun world.
I can hardly tell you a revolver from a shotgun.
Sorry.
I've never heard anything.
So they're looking at this arsenal, and they see a silencer.
That's in a police officer's mind.
Red alarms go off.
Why would you need to drive around with a silencer?
Why?
Why?
So next thing is Lisa Marie is chatting with Ron Miscavige, the father of the dictator of Scientology, David Miscavige.
And he tells the whole story.
He said, they've been stalking me for a year.
These were two police officers who were siphoned off from being police officers and paid $10,000 a week.
Of taxpayer free money to stalk Ron Miscavige.
He may have even told you the story I interviewed him.
I don't know.
Yeah, he did.
But Lisa heard the whole story from the horse's mouth, and she calls Kim Christensen of the Los Angeles Times.
And the Los Angeles Times breaks the story of the cult of Scientology paying ex-police officers $10,000 a week.
The dictator of Scientology is paying for it.
His own father to be stopped to have his garbage empty daily to see what he threw out of the garbage.
In case there's notes to tap his phone line to get his phone records illegally.
And that used to happen several years ago.
I think phone lines have been tightened up on security now, but everything.
And Kim Christensen gets the media of the world to copycat his story.
They give him credit.
They say, you know, this was from Kim Christensen of the Los Angeles Times.
But media all over the world, again, the media I've been talking about.
Daily Mail.
Hollywood reporter.
On and on and on.
All the Hollywood paper, you know.
Yeah.
I think even reported.
Anyway, that was a Lisa McPherson leak.
This was a girl.
I'm talking about Scientology theology, theology falling on its head.
This was a girl they had since nine years old.
I know, because, or since 10 years old, because her mother would drop her off at celebrity center when it was on La Brea.
And I was class 12, I was senior CS.
They said, Oh, she's Elvis Presley's daughter.
Karen de la Carriere.
I was to, I was called Karen Jench then because I was married to the president of the church of Scientology International. He ever judge.
So my name was Karen Jench.
So Karen has to audit Lisa.
So there it was.
And 15, 20 years later, Lisa is turning in to the Los Angeles Times with the other newspapers.
Copycat it because it's a sensational story.
Right.
When the dictator of Scientology is paying hard cash, high dollar for his own father to be stopped with an arsenal of guns and a science.
Wow.
So, so this is good.
The audience need to get a little nuggets of this and that.
Yeah.
I've never talked about this on the web.
Ever.
This is not an old story.
So I don't think I've ever talked about that I was the counselor for Lisa Marie.
I don't think you've ever mentioned that.
Nope.
I don't try to necessarily brag of the celebrities I've audited.
But this is relevant to show that least good old Lisa.
Ballotations Lisa.
You will remember me.
Girl in the auditing chair feeling miserable, miserable.
Couldn't, couldn't.
She was happy when it was done for the day she could run out.
Then her mother would slip up in a big fancy.
Lisa would jump in the car and begun to the next day.
Wow.
Anyway, why did I give you so much about Lisa Marie?
It's she was persuaded by the culture of Scientology
to persuade an influence.
In this day and age, we talk of influencers,
one of the Jane Doe, to not promote the rape,
the violent coerced sex of the anus,
causing enormous pain and bleeding.
One of the ones that are in the court right now.
They all have the same signature.
The signature was violent, donkey punch rape,
and when they woke up, the blood was all over.
Lisa Marie tried to persuade one of these three Jane Doe's.
I'm not following the case that much,
that I know whether it was Jane Doe, one, two, three.
And Lisa subsequently apologized to the rape victim
for having tried to influence her.
First she influenced her.
Meaning first she said, don't go out.
Don't talk to LAPD.
Do not go to the cops.
Do not turn on Scientology.
And she's an influencer.
It's like looking up to someone you admire
because there's someone who's the daughter of Elvis Presley.
So you would imagine David, Miss Gavrager, whoever goes,
Presley, take care of this.
Boom, she's on it.
And then all of a sudden, she realizes and comes out of the bubble.
And now she's apologizing.
She apologized.
Now, she was on the witness stand
because the prosecutor obviously had a lot of communication.
It really showed a lot of how Scientology ties into all of this.
Because Scientology went to Lisa Marie
to get her to influence the rape victim.
And when the witness list was released early on
before the trial started, that Lisa Marie Presley.
And everyone in the Scientology world knew because she
was an influencer, but she apologized.
And they threw that out, right?
Because she had previously told her not to but then comes out
and then tells her to do it.
She gets kicked out of being a witness.
No, she didn't say, she just apologized.
She didn't say, I apologize, go ahead and do it.
She didn't go so far as to say go.
She just wanted to apologize.
Oh, OK, OK.
And it was a shameful thing to tell a rape victim, hide it
under the carpet, don't go to LAPD.
That's shameful under any way you look at it.
And she had the grace, Lisa Marie had the grace
to realize that was wrong, and she apologized.
Now, once she got subpoenaed, Lisa Marie Presley
ran to a lawyer, good girl, clever girl.
And the lawyer said, well, ask for immunity
because she was guilty of obstructing justice.
You can't influence someone to not go to law enforcement
over a felony?
I was just about to say this, yeah.
So the prosecution granted her immunity.
They wanted Lisa's testimony.
She was granted immunity.
And then later, because of all this tangle,
this and that, they decided it would go off into Scientology
and they decided to drop her.
But Lisa Marie Presley absolutely escalated media
interest in the dynamic justice control.
Wow.
On the witness list, she apologized.
She took the Jane Doe.
No, no, no, no, no, don't go to law enforcement.
Oh, oh, I'm so sorry I asked you to dunk me.
I should never have.
And all of this is being reported in the media.
Wow.
And the media get really excited.
So she continues to hit Scientology.
Never mind the Los Angeles Times and being
the friend of David Miscavige's father
and leaking the story of the decade there on Scientology.
That was the biggest story.
Now, she's exciting all the media.
Oh, man.
Leah calls herself a troublemaker.
I tell you, Lisa Marie Presley, they're going to rule the day.
They sucked out all those tons of millions of dollars from her.
Because?
For them making her pay for the apple.
That's great.
And it's time she throws the rind back at them.
And the fingers point back at the serpent, Scientology.
Or at least, depending on your interpretation,
because some people thought the serpent was good,
just depends on the interpretation.
But this is really, it's a fascinating.
There's so many celebrities involved.
And how big of a situation this is.
I mean, this is a big deal.
And that Scientology is so intertwined in this.
I can't wait to see what the verdict is.
I know you kind of sit on the edge of your seat
and you hope these women get justice.
But you want to know the verdict.
You want to figure out what's going on.
And I hope they get justice.
That's my number one thing is I hope to get justice.
And this is, it's bigger than Masterson.
And the women who I think are speaking,
while they're probably speaking on their own behalf
about what happened to them.
I think even they, and I don't know.
I haven't spoke to them.
I don't know.
But I imagine that they know that there's a bigger war
that they're playing a part of.
And that is against this cult
and what they're doing to abuse people.
And so their sacrifice is big right now
on doing what they're doing.
And I'm proud of them.
And I'm proud of you for coming and speaking
to try and help promote more people to be aware of this,
to be mindful not to join that cult,
to recognize it is a cult.
Not just some new religious movement.
And yeah, I mean, it's just,
there's so many things that Karen,
I hope people will take away and learn
from what we're talking about here.
And take it from someone like you
who was on the boat with Al Ron Hubbard,
who was indoctrinated, who believed,
you know, in the crazy XZNU stuff.
You know, like, trust me, you're not alone.
I believe in crazy stuff too.
But my point is, is like, we really, really bought it.
I did.
And now it's time to wake people up.
I did.
And something made me a little happy just to end off here.
Thank you.
Thank you, Derek.
That was,
I felt a little, Jeffrey, my husband has been down
at the courthouse.
Tony is there monitoring as it starts
and writing down all testimony and so on and so forth.
And where I felt a little happy,
Scientology has something called a purse pack.
It's a pack.
It's for the purse.
And it just glorifies their nobility.
We have drug programs.
We got 1.5 million people off drugs.
We got,
we educated 3.86 million people on study tech.
I mean, the figures are just ludicrous.
They always go over the top.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
You know, if they just said,
we helped a little village
and gave them some educational tools and some victory,
people could swallow that.
3.86 million people can now read and write because of us.
The glory, they just,
they play the violin to themselves.
They are the best thing since Apple Pie.
So all media are given these purse packs.
And my happiness moment,
I need to give you my happiness moment
in all of this dark rape horror is
these 22 or more reporters,
Daily Mail, People Magazine,
Hollywood Reporter, Variety, New York Times,
Los Angeles Times, Rolling Stone,
Chicago Tribune, Miami Herald, go on and on and on.
The happiness moment was learning
that they absolutely see the cult
as a devious mob criminal cult with tax exemption.
They do not believe for one second in the press facts
of the glory and nobility of the cult of Scientology.
It is actually quite looking.
Wow.
So only seeing all the media journalists together
and being able to chit chat and exchange,
you find out, journalists can be cynical
and then they can sort of,
but this is a belief that the media have,
that this is a mob criminal cult.
Interesting, huh?
That's making a happiness moment.
Yeah, I mean,
I'm so sorry about that purse pack.
I'm definitely glad that they're paying attention
and they see it.
And I hope that the judge does
and I hope that more people do.
That's our whole goal.
So.
Derek, thank you for doing this.
I know it's just a little bit,
but you're getting into Jehovah's Witness and stuff,
there's, you...
It all ties together.
Getting a little percentage of your show
into cults and what they do.
It's so valuable.
It's truth.
And it's knowledge to the audience.
And long after I'm dead and gone and you're dead and gone,
it's forever home YouTube.
That's true.
It'll never come down.
Okay, Derek, I love you.
Take care.
I love you too.
And everybody subscribe to her YouTube channel.
Go show her some love surviving Scientology.
She got a bunch of videos.
She continues to teach more people, educated them.
There's a lot of past interviews I've done with her
and never forget, we are MythVision.
Bye.
Ladies and gentlemen, we actually caught breaking news.
As soon as we stopped recording,
the news was in on the Masterson case so far.
Karen, what did we discover?
Oh my goodness.
Jury is deadlocked.
When a jury deadlocks, the government get an automatic
appeal handed to them.
They don't have to file papers.
They don't have to ask a judge.
Automatically, they get to retry the case.
Well, that's it.
Yeah.
That's at least the positive news
is that the case still can be retried.
Oh, they've already said it.
They've already set a date.
It's been retried in March.
Good, good.
At least there's something gonna follow up
and just to show people,
you can actually go to the Daily Mail
and mistrial declared in Danny Masterson case,
Scientologist, that 70s show actor was accused
of raping three women at Hollywood Hills Home.
And then down here, just to give you an idea,
Judge Alamedo then called in the jury
and the male foreman confirmed to her
that they were deadlocked and there was no more information
the court could provide that would change their position.
She asked him how many ballots the jurors took
and he told her they took four Wednesday and three Tuesday.
And the judge also asked the foreman how jurors voted.
He told her that on account one,
the forcible rape of Jane Doe won.
The vote was two for guilty and 10 for acquittal.
On count two, the forcible rape of Jane Doe,
the vote was four for guilty, eight for acquittal.
And on three, the forcible rape of Jane Doe,
three, the vote was five for guilty and seven for acquittal
telling the court that the jury was hopelessly deadlocked.
Judge Alamedo added, I am declaring a mistrial.
The judge scheduled March 6th, 2023
for another hearing and March 27th
for Masterson to stand trial for a second time.
Stay tuned.
You know, Derek, what happened to the Me Too movement?
There was a whole swell of women
joining together in solidarity on Me Too.
Yet, Taryn, the daughter of Mike Rinder,
continuously, just sickingly makes videos
and keeps calling on her own father.
Scientology is pushing her, of course.
She's doing this for Osum.
A wife, a rapist, and she joined the Me Too movement
thinking she would get some traction.
However, Taryn, if she was sincere about the Me Too,
what about the rapist rape to women?
Where is the Me Too movement?
It's just, oh, geez, I'm stunned.
I'm really, I was way off.
It just shows how we knew things from our own lens.
But I do hope the very explicit descriptions
we gave earlier in the video of the drugging
and the bleeding and the, you know, donkey punches.
I hope that the people audience
will get a wider picture than a Hollywood jury.
Yeah, me too.
I don't think there's a Hollywood jury.
Well, until next time, Karen, let's keep it up.
And we'll do it in March when it's,
yeah, but we'll meet together before March.
Yeah. Thank you, sweetheart.
Thank you.
