And then you hear the screaming side.
You fuck, you fuck, you fuck, you fuck, you fuck, you fuck.
Mike Render and the Church of Scientology,
he exposes them like no one I've ever heard.
You know our last episode where we interviewed
Ron Miscavige, the father of David Miscavige?
Well, Mike Render gives his take
and I really don't want you to miss it.
Shelly Miscavige, where is she?
The wife of David Miscavige.
What happened to Mike Render that caused him to wake up
in all that cognitive dissonance?
And let me tell you,
a drink in the Kool-Aid can keep people stuck.
The emotional turmoil that he must have experienced
and everyone who tries to escape a cult like this,
they all share something in common,
something really deep that touches all of us.
And I hope you guys share this content
because someone out there probably needs to see it.
We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision podcast.
I'm your host, Derek Lambert.
Ladies and gentlemen, you could see
the kind of caliber we brought to the show today.
I hope you guys hit that like button, subscribe.
I cannot wait to hear what we're gonna delve into today.
The Church of Scientology is an enormous cult
with lots of money and they've caused plenty of people harm.
So let's go ahead and introduce our guest.
David Samuels, my co-host today.
David, welcome to the show, man.
And we'll have you introduce Mike and go from there.
How are you doing, brother?
I'm great, man.
Thank you.
Thank you and great to be on.
And thank you, Mike, for coming on.
Awesome to have you on, man.
We recently had on Ron Miscavige, actually.
So you know, Ron, that was a blast.
He had a great time with Ron.
He even played us a little trumpet at the end.
He's a cool guy.
We keep in contact on Skype now.
I sent him, he's a big, he loves Vegemite,
but he can only get Marmite.
So I sent him a couple of tubs of Vegemite
and he was so grateful for me sending him that.
So that was pretty cool.
Mike, man, you're from Adelaide in South Australia.
So this is where I live.
Of all places in the world,
you were born in Adelaide.
Tell us about that.
Like, I think you were there, you were born there
and then you kind of left around about six.
No, no, I was born there, David.
And I lived there most of my life,
except for a time that I lived, well, most of my youth,
except for a time that I lived in Sydney
for half a year or a year.
And then in England a couple of times
for a year or six months.
But no, I'm a born and raised pro.
And, you know, I was,
I went to school at Burnside Primary School.
And then-
Burnside, I lived in Burnside,
I lived on Waterfall Terrace.
I see, it's crazy.
Yeah, well, when I went to Burnside Primary,
we lived in Stonyfell and then we moved to Wabble Park
and I went to King's College back
when it was an old boys' school before it became,
I think it's called Pembroke now.
And-
Yeah, Pembroke, yeah.
That was my life.
And, you know, I used to go to the Adelaide Cricket Ground
and I followed Sturt and I was like-
Oh, the Pembrokes!
A homegrown Adelaide and there is no,
I mean, you're maybe the only other person
on planet Earth that I've met that's from Adelaide.
It's like-
Oh, sorry.
Like I was telling Derek,
I've been from Omaha, Nebraska.
I'm like, nobody's in Adelaide.
Well, I hate to disappoint you, Mike,
but I'm a West Adelaide, I'm a Bloods fan,
so I think we beat you in the 83 grand final,
but anyway.
All right.
That's-
Well, I'm resigning now.
I'm leaving this podcast.
And it was nice chatting with you while it lasted,
but, you know, certain things just,
they just go that way.
Sorry.
Sorry, man, I'm a Bloods fan, but anyway.
So that's awesome.
So my kids were also born in Burnside Memorial Hospital,
so it's just crazy.
So you lived in Adelaide.
When did you move to,
because you moved, your parents were Scientologists?
How did you get involved in this religion?
Well, interestingly, when we lived in Stonyfella,
next door neighbor in 1959,
and that tells you how old I am
because I was actually alive in 1959.
Our next door neighbor went to Melbourne
to see Elrond Hubbard deliver a series of lectures.
He was touring the world,
spouting off about Dianetics and Scientology,
and our neighbor went and he came back
with these great tales of,
oh my God, this is the most incredible thing,
and this guy's discovered the answers to the universe,
and not only the answers to the universe,
but the answers on how you can be happier
and raise better children and et cetera, et cetera.
The sort of usual pitch that goes along with Scientology,
which is that it is not only,
I mean, Scientology calls itself
on a quote, applied religious philosophy.
And this is sort of a bit of trickery
that helps to kind of put Scientology in a context
that people will find acceptable.
It's not too threatening to,
if they're already in a religion of,
they've been raised in a certain religion,
it's not too threatening to say
it's an applied religious philosophy.
Philosophy sounds kind of cool
like a thinking person's thing,
and it's applied so you could do it in the here and now,
you don't have to wait until you die
and go to heaven.
And like these things are the pitches
that Scientology has became very adept at
and convincing people that there was a solution
to their problems.
And everybody's got problems.
No matter what they are,
Scientology has the answer and the solution.
And I don't know exactly what my parents
found exciting or interesting about it to begin with,
but from the age of, well, I was four then,
they sort of really didn't get involved for a year or two,
seriously.
And then I started becoming what I would call
a member of a Scientology family when I was six.
And that was how I was raised.
I was raised with the principles of Scientology
being the overriding guiding principles
of how you conduct yourself.
Because one thing about Elron Hubbard,
he wrote and talked and lectured about everything.
Like every single thing that you can possibly imagine,
he had his take on and his take in the eyes
of Scientologists is the only take.
There's only one right way of doing or thinking
about anything.
And that's the way that Ron Hubbard says to do it.
And he spouted forth on practically everything
you can think of.
So a lot of my life was spent doing what most Scientologists
do, which is when confronted with something in life
going, what would Ron do?
And then going to the numerous books and references
that Hubbard put out into the world
and finding the answer contained within that.
So my life was a sort of a preordained course.
A preordained course, it's not easy as a young child
to buck what you are being taught by your parents.
They have enormous influence over your thinking
and your approach to life and the way that you view things
and how you conduct yourself.
And it sort of becomes so ingrained that it just,
everybody else seems abnormal
and you're the only one that seems normal.
And that's the best way I can think to describe it.
You're the normal person, everybody else out there
who doesn't have this wisdom of Ron is the abnormal,
unfortunate, uneducated, desperate, sad,
and they don't know it person.
And this is, I believe, the fundamental concept
that every cult employs.
It's an us versus them world.
We have all the answers, you have none,
and you only object to our answers
because you're still uneducated.
You don't really understand what they are and what they mean.
And if you would just get yourself educated,
you would come to realize
that we do have all the answers to everything.
If you only knew what we knew, then you'd understand.
Exactly, that's exactly right, Derek.
This is well said, Mike.
I gotta ask, because you obviously meant,
what you're saying is anachronistic in a sense.
I love this because you now know,
and the way that you have said this,
I can tell, and I just read people,
I'm a pretty good people person,
I can tell there's not only sincerity, but honesty,
and I can relate to the experience that you're saying,
that's how I know it's true, what you're actually relaying.
So any naysayers out there,
and of course there's always an agenda
from the Scientologist to try and take you out.
They're not taking you out.
They're not taking you out, they're just causing more flame
to engulf, and you are just gonna do
more out-speaking and stuff.
So I really appreciate that.
When you met Elron Hubbard,
I suspect you weren't thinking what you're thinking now.
You thought this guy was the best thing on earth, right?
Oh, not just on earth in the entire universe.
Wow.
And that's not an exaggeration, Derek.
Like Scientologists believe that there is a vast universe
and that Elron Hubbard is the first person,
entity, being, spiritual, whatever you wanna call it,
who has unlocked the secrets to the universe.
And that he, and he even says,
there is a very famous writing that he did,
that everybody in Scientology has to read
at the beginning of every course that they ever do,
or every time they go in and it's called
Keeping Scientology Working.
And it is the seven page thing that Hubbard wrote
about how he came to develop Scientology.
And in it he says, look, I rose above everybody else
and I came up with the answers to your problems
and mankind's problems and the problems of the universe
and how I came about doing that isn't really important.
It's just the fact that I did.
And this is like gospel to Scientologists.
It is the idea that Hubbard knows you better
than you know yourself,
that he understands you better than you understand yourself.
And only if you study all of what he said
about how you are the way you are,
will you be able to understand yourself.
And then you still won't ever catch up to him
because he's advanced on to the next thing
of how the universe is the way that it is, et cetera, et cetera.
So Hubbard is this very revered figure in Scientology.
Like all cult leaders, he is infallible,
his word is the word of God effectively.
Though Scientology takes great pains
and Hubbard also took great pains to make statements
like, I'm not a God, I'm just a man,
and I don't wish to be treated as a God
and I just wish to be treated as a man.
But that wasn't really true.
He did want to be treated as a God.
In other words, he wanted to be treated
as infallible and unquestionable and unquestioned,
but he didn't want the baggage that goes along with that.
So he said, I'm not a God, I'm just a man,
but really he wanted to be treated like a God
and is treated like a God in pretty much all respects
by Scientologists.
So similar to the Kim Jong-un dynasty in North Korea,
really, in a way.
Yeah, you know, my good friend,
now good friend, John Sweeney of the BBC
did two undercover programs in North Korea
and he wrote a book about it.
And I've talked to him extensively about this
because he's one of the few people that I know
who has immersed himself in the world of Scientology
with his programs on Panorama about Scientology
and also being undercover in North Korea
to do programs about the regime in North Korea.
I said, John, like, how does this compare?
Oh, well, I wasn't as freaked out in North Korea
as I was when I was doing Scientology.
Once in a while.
Wow.
He said, you know, the similarities are remarkable.
I mean, if you-
That's a big statement.
David, if you go to a Scientology event,
which is they hold these events routinely throughout the year
to brief the Scientologists on what's going on in the world.
And there's a bunch of-
They have a church on North Terrace, by the way, in Adelaide.
Oh, yeah.
Well, I thought, I think they brought a building down by,
down somewhere down by Port Adelaide
that they haven't moved in.
They do this routinely.
And I'll, if you ever have time,
I'll explain to you the Scientology real estate strategy.
Yeah, well, you know, Mike, you know North Terrace,
and that is evolved big time.
That is probably the most prime real estate in Adelaide,
North Terrace.
That's like, anyway, they've got a church there, but yeah.
Whatever.
Yeah.
Yeah, we're talking about Scientology.
They may have a building there, but there's nobody in it.
Nobody in it.
Yeah, yeah.
By the whatever.
It doesn't matter how prime the real estate is,
there's nobody in these places.
They have become a real estate empire
rather than a real, you know, thinking or thought empire.
It's an empire of bricks and mortar
rather than empire of ideas now.
But I was saying that if you go to these Scientology events,
and, you know, I used to speak at those things.
These days, it's just Mescavige, but back in the day,
there was a bunch of us that used to talk at those.
And all the Scientologists would be basically
brow-beaten into showing up for these events
five or six times a year.
And David Mescavige would walk out on stage
and instantly, everybody would be on their feet,
applauding, oh, they're like, I call them club seals,
but they're like trained seals, you know,
like they just sort of stand up and cheer and shout
and in the middle of, you know, as he's going along
and talking about, and we have, you know,
four miles of wiring that we have installed
in this new building.
And this, these things look remarkably like
those events that you see where Kim Jong-un
or whoever the current leader of the cult of North Korea
goes and does these highly orchestrated, organized events
and everybody is standing up and cheering.
They've got tears coming down their face.
They're so overwhelmed with the emotion of the moment
and the incredible things that are being presented to them
and it's all bullshit.
And that's the same, it's the same technique
that's used in Scientology.
These events have these incredible announcements.
We talked about this on the aftermath
when we did an episode with Mark Headley
because Mark Headley and I both used to work
on putting together these events.
We talked about the bullshit and how it's bullshit
and how things are presented in a fashion
to make everybody get in the, oh my God,
we're taking over the world.
Oh my God, we're just doing so much good for planet earth.
We're the saviors of mankind
and Scientologists really believe that.
They do believe that they are saving mankind.
And that's what you believe.
See, what you're saying there's powerful
because you're saying you were preparing these things
and you were so involved in the cult,
you literally thought you were doing good.
No, no, no, make it look better than that.
No, no, no, enhance that.
No, say we had more members.
And you're really thinking you're doing good by lying.
Like out of this thing.
Absolutely, that's so powerful.
Absolutely, Derek, there is no question.
This is something that I've said very, very often.
And I was the international spokesperson for Scientology
for 20 years.
So I have a pretty good background
to talk about this subject,
but every Scientologist will,
and just mark my words,
every Scientologist will lie
if it is protecting Scientology
or doing something that they think will fall
towards the aims of Scientology.
They will lie.
And that includes in front of a court
that includes to the police,
that includes in deposition,
that includes on national television.
I mean, I did it numerous times on national TV.
And you believe that the end justifies the means.
The means justifies the ends.
It doesn't even matter which way around you go.
If it's good for Scientology,
it's good and it's not wrong.
And lying.
Is that called fair game?
Well, that's part of fair game.
It can be part of it, but it's not.
He's saying in every aspect of Scientology,
it's in, you know, I see the same trait.
I just, I like to relate stuff
to other people who might relate to this
that watch my show.
I see the same trait with religious, okay?
Whatever the religion might be or their brand,
their flavor, their Kool-Aid,
and they're going to do whatever they can
while they're drinking the Kool-Aid.
Like you were drinking the Kool-Aid of Scientology,
I was drinking the Kool-Aid of this particular cult
of Christianity or whatever.
And like we would do anything to hold that truth.
And what the truth we thought was true,
even if we were lying about it.
And what I found interesting is one day,
I think the Kool-Aid didn't taste the same
or something happened to me where I said,
hold on, one of the characteristics
that I'm supposed to believe about this thing is
really to search the truth, right?
The truth will set you free.
And for you, it was a different, I think transition.
There were the mistreatment.
I'm not sure what happened, but you know,
I want to know like, what do you think it was ultimately?
And I don't, it may not have been one event,
but something tipped you over the edge, Mike,
that made you go from this is my life to,
okay, I'm uneasy about this.
What the hell is going on with me?
I am experiencing something that is putting me at odds
against my religious or if you will,
my church of Scientology.
We call that waking up in the Jehovah's Witness community.
So.
Yeah, well, let me just, let me just,
I'll answer your question, Derek.
It's not, it may not be a short answer, but I'll answer it.
But let me just give a little foundation for that first,
which is when I was 18, I joined this,
what's called the C organization of Scientology.
And this is like the inner core of Scientology,
you know, sort of like, I don't know,
the Vatican for the Catholic church.
The people who are 100% dedicated to Scientology,
you live communally,
you work 24 hours a day, 365 days a year for Scientology.
You don't get paid anything or, you know,
like a stipend 50 bucks a week.
If you're lucky, you work full-time for Scientology
and they provide everything.
They provide your food, they provide your housing,
they provide your healthcare.
So you as a C-ORG member become a part of,
on one hand, this group of people who,
you know, it's somewhat inspiring to be a part of
a such a close-knit, dedicated group of people
all, you know, in lockstep to attain
or work towards the same thing.
That's a very empowering dynamic of life.
Very empowering.
And it's a very powerful glue that holds you in place.
The fact that-
At age 18, did you sign the billion-year contract, Mike?
Yep, yep.
At age 18.
Yes, at age 18.
So in America, you can't even drink alcohol until you're 21.
Yet, you're signing-
Yeah, well, that's what they say in theory.
Yet you're signing a billion-year contract as a teenager.
Correct.
And that was like a pre-ordained thing.
That my view was ultimately I would,
as a good Scientologist and as like the oldest son
of a prominent Scientology family,
I was going to go join L. Ron Hubbard in the Sea Organization
and work directly with him to achieve the aims of Scientology.
So that understand is a real hold
on members of the Sea Organization
because you are all the time surrounded with people
who have exactly the same view about everything.
And if you deviate from that view,
you are quickly, you quickly realize
that maybe I'm out of step.
And this idea of being out of step with everybody else
is also a powerful clue that keeps people stuck
in whatever it is that they're in.
Peer pressure is enormously powerful.
It's enormous.
I mean, that Stanford experiment
is an astonishing thing
that people still refer to 50 or 60 or 70 years later
because it's so stark.
Isn't this the theory?
And I don't want to detract you
because I know you're getting to your point.
There's video I saw like black and white video
when you were young, you know?
No, I'm just kidding.
Had to jab.
Anyway, I'm being funny.
That was when I was old.
So they had this video camera
where they got a random participant.
The gentleman in the elevator now is a candid star.
These folks who are entering,
the man with the white shirt,
the lady with the trench coat,
and subsequently one of the member of our staff
will face the rear.
And you'll see how this man in the trench coat.
He tries to maintain his individuality,
but little by little.
He looks at his watch,
but he's really making an excuse
for turning just a little bit more into a wall.
Now we'll try it once again.
Here's the candid subject.
Here comes the candid camera staff,
three of them at least.
And this man has apparently been in groups before.
Now, here's a fella with his hat on in the elevator.
First he makes a full turn to the rear
and Charlie closes the door.
A moment later, we'll open the door.
Everybody's changed positions.
Now we'll see if we can use group pressure
for some good.
Now, in a moment, on Charlie's signal,
everybody turns forward.
There it goes.
They take off their hats.
And now, do you think we could reverse the procedure?
Watch.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Well, the Stanford Prison Experiment just is,
and anybody can look it up, you can Google it.
It is where they took these students
and told them that they were prison guards
and they were watching over these prisoners.
And these prisoners were part of the experiment.
And they were told that what they were supposed to do
was increasingly torture these people
and give them electric shocks
and do terrible things to them.
It wasn't really happening.
It was all acted out.
But these people were going along with this
and as more, it's just fascinating to see.
But my point to go back was, you asked originally,
so what was it that caused the breaking point?
And I wanted you to understand a little
that there was a lot of factors involved in this
because I also had a wife.
I had two children that I had raised in the jail.
They didn't join when they were 18.
They were born into it.
So the abuses, the physical and mental
and verbal abuses got increasingly outrageous
as time went on, particularly in the early 2000s.
And then I, you know, a long sort of series of events.
And I mentioned John Sweeney earlier,
but John Sweeney plays an interesting role in my life
because I was in London to represent Scientology
when John Sweeney was doing his Panorama program.
And I had been interacting with him
when he was in the United States.
And then when he went back to London,
I was told I had to go to London to do this.
And he showed up at one of the Scientology buildings
in London, what's they call the Test Center
and Tottenham Court Road.
And he had a camera crew and his producer
and he sort of came to the doorstep
and was asking questions.
And I got called and I rushed over there
and he starts very, very intensively saying,
you know, I've got on good authority
and I've spoken to people and people have told me
that David Miscavige has been, has physically assaulted you.
And how do you respond to that?
There's allegations of absolute auto-operative roughness.
Absolute auto-operative roughness.
And I, you know, this is also all over YouTube.
You can see it.
That's an absolute lie and we'll sue you if you run that
and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
And meanwhile, in the back of my mind, I'm going,
you know, I know the people that he talked to,
I know Bruce Hines, I know Jeff Hawkins,
I know these guys that John Sweeney has spoken to
and I know they were there in the same room with me
while they were getting the shit kicked out of them
and I was getting the shit kicked out of me.
And I'm standing here on what's effectively
international TV saying, no, this is just a lie
and we'll, and being all aggressive
and we'll sue you about it.
And I walked out of that and I went, you know,
I've told a lot of lies in my time,
but I always felt they were pretty justified.
Like I wouldn't ever admit anything
about the secret OT teachings of Scientology.
Now I'm on the, on the, on the Today Show with Katie Couric
and she's asked me about Zinu and OT three,
and I'm like, ah, no, nothing like that.
Don't know anything about it.
I know that according to my research,
L. Ron Hubbard, the father of Scientology has claimed
that humans are immortal spiritual beings
composed of body, mind and spirit.
But he also claimed that 75 million years ago,
an evil galactic ruler named Zinu
killed billions of his people by sending them to earth
in space planes.
You can understand why some people might feel
this is at best pretty unconventional.
And I guess at worst just playing out there.
I can understand that certainly, Katie.
That just has no basis in reality.
This is one of those things that gets spread around
one of those old stories that gets run around.
So he never, he never wrote about that?
No, not in those terms.
There is an alteration and twisting of things.
That to me was very well justified.
This was a justifiable lie because Hubbard says
that if you're not prepared to have that information
that it can be not just spiritually harmful to you,
you can die.
And Scientologists believed that.
And I believed it at the time.
And I was like, I can't say anything about this
and hurt people.
And there I am standing there going,
did I really join the C organization
to defend this little punk that is beating people up
and physically assaulting them?
Like there's something like the dissonance in my brain
just sort of started going into overload at that moment.
Going, what the fuck am I doing?
And then going, yeah, but I can't leave
because it kind of abandoned my kids.
I'm in London, what the fuck am I gonna do?
Oh, I'm sorry.
I'm swearing like that.
You're good.
No, this is all wrong.
It's all good.
Mike, just want to just rewind a little bit.
When L. Ron Hubbard passed away,
was David Mascowicz always going to be the successor?
Or did you throw your hat?
Did you throw your hat?
What's the process of, you know how like the Pope,
the Catholics have like a, you know, they got a vote
and Joe's witness have a governing body of eight members
and you got it like, what's like,
so he wasn't always going to be the plan successor of Hubbard.
What's the process of becoming the next Scientology Pope?
Cause obviously Mascowicz will one day, you know, move on
and there'll be another Scientology leader
or whatever you want to call it.
Did you just add a curiosity?
Did you ever throw your hat in the ring to kind of?
That's a good question.
David, you know, be the, let's call it the Pope of Scientology.
No, you didn't.
No, I didn't.
And let me just explain something to you.
The process of taking over from L. Ron Hubbard
is a process that's more aptly described
in the book Lord of the Flies
than in a comparison to the Catholic Church.
This was, or perhaps the history of the Soviet Union
and the rise of Stalin.
This was a guy, David Mascowicz,
who took every opportunity he could
to scramble over the bodies he killed in order to get there.
And I don't mean literally killed.
I mean, people he took out in order to rise to the top
and he had a pretty good plan of how to accomplish that.
And he pulled it off because the hit,
the denominated successes of L. Ron Hubbard
and this, you know, a lot of this gets very esoteric.
But like I said, Hubbard wrote about everything.
The one thing he never really wrote about
was what was supposed to happen once he croaked.
And it's odd.
Hubbard wrote, he would send messages out for Christmas.
He would send messages out to all his followers
for the anniversary of the publication of Dianetics.
He'd send a message when he discovered that, you know,
that flying, if you pull the wings off flies,
they don't fly anymore.
I mean, this guy would send a write
about every single thing that ever crossed his mind.
But it never apparently crossed his mind
to send a message out to the world of Scientology
and say, look, I am nearing the end of this life
and here is my plan for how Scientology carries on.
None of that.
Even though once he had died,
David Miscavige stood on stage in Hollywood,
in the Palladium in California and said,
L. Ron Hubbard has causatively left this,
his earthly presence, to move on to a higher realm
of discovery and research.
And this was, he did this knowingly,
and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
Okay.
He has now moved on to his next OT, level of OT research.
This level is beyond anything anyone of us ever imagined.
This level is in fact done in an exterior state,
meaning that it's done completely exterior from the body.
At this level of OT, the body is nothing more
than an impediment and encumbrance
to any further gain as an OT.
Thus, at 2,000 hours Friday, the 24th of January,
AD 36, L. Ron Hubbard discarded the body
he had used in his lifetime for 74 years,
10 months, and 11 days.
The body he had used to facilitate his existence
in this messed universe, had ceased to be useful
and in fact had become an impediment to the work
he now must do outside of its confines.
The people that were with Hubbard when he died
were not David Miscavige.
David Miscavige had not seen Hubbard for five years
or four years or however long.
There were only three people, four people that were,
even knew where Hubbard was in the last days of his life.
That was Patton Annie Broker, a guy called Steve Falth,
and Hubbard's doctor, Gene Denk.
And the two Scientologists that were supposed to be
or that Hubbard had chosen to be the people
that were with him, because Steve Falth was a ranchan.
He was like a handyman.
Annie Broker and her husband, Patt,
were the two people that had been,
and Annie had been with Hubbard since the days,
since before I arrived with Hubbard in 1973.
She had been a long-term loyal Hubbard aide.
And she was obviously the person who should have
taken over from Hubbard because she was the one
that he had chosen to be with her at the end of his life.
And it wasn't even his wife.
His wife wasn't there, none of his kids were there.
He didn't see anybody, just those four people
and not David Miscavige.
But somehow, David Miscavige managed to not only convince
the people who potentially were in positions of authority
who could have taken over rather than him,
but also the world of Scientology,
that he was the chosen one,
that he was the person who was chosen by Elrond Hubbard
to succeed him.
And that's not true.
That is absolutely not true.
And eventually, I would get around to writing a book
and laying out all of the details of this
because a lot of this stuff is not known
and not known by even people
at the top of the C organization.
Unless they were around at the time
that all of this went down
and also were privy to some of the background information
about what was going on, they don't have a clue.
They only have the story of the rise of David Miscavige
according to David Miscavige and the propaganda campaign
that he has waged since that time
to convince everybody that he is the true anointed
and enormously successful leader of Scientology
in the wake of Elrond Hubbard.
He took the power.
I mean, he just went in and bulldozed everyone
and said, this is me.
And he had people backing him, I suspect.
He probably made packs with people saying,
look, help me get here.
I'll help you get here, that kind of stuff.
What do you think?
Yeah, to some extent.
Those who were loyal to him in the initial stages of this
were sort of lauded and given special treatment
and privilege.
Ultimately, all of those people ended up
getting wasted by him in typical Stalin style.
You use people for as long as you can.
And then when you think that they're
becoming too threatening to you, you get rid of them.
You destroy them and their reputation and whatever.
And I don't know.
I haven't listened, unfortunately, to the interview
you did with David's dad.
But I suspect that he at least gave some insight
into the personality of David that would make you understand.
What I'm saying isn't just like a fantasy.
No, his own flesh and blood said it.
And this is why I wanted to ask, because getting
into the next question about Shelly miscavige, which
I think is an interesting one, a lot of people
have this piqued mystery curiosity about,
I want to mention that where were you in all of this?
What was your role in this David miscavige taking power role?
Were you someone important?
And were you actually kind of like sitting on a fence?
Or how did you play a role in any of this?
Well, this was also during a period of incredible growth
for Scientology.
In the early 90s, obviously, we didn't have internet back then.
Same as watched out, same as John has witnessed.
They had incredible growth.
We're talking like 7%, 8% growth a year.
Scientology also had really good growth in the 90s.
Obviously now with the internet and so much bad exposure,
when we get into that later, the membership is just tangs.
But yeah, great question, Derek.
I'm interested to hear what you have your input like.
Yeah, I was.
I mean, there was a lot of things going on at that time.
And a lot of them were upheavals in Scientology.
There was an enormous number of lawsuits
that had been filed.
There was attacks from Elrond Hubbard's oldest son,
his estranged oldest son, seeking to claiming
that Hubbard was being held.
He was either dead or incompetent,
and that he had a right to his inheritance.
And there were a whole series of lawsuits,
and there were government investigations.
And I had come in to take over the legal department
of Scientology.
So I was pretty much full-time employed dealing
with the legal threats.
And then as you alluded to, David, in the mid-90s,
the internet did come to the fore.
And the foolish action of Scientology in response to that,
at the insistence of David Miscavige,
suing a number of people who had placed
confidential Scientology materials on the internet,
resulted in a whole new world of litigating about the rights
to have free access to stuff.
And that began another downhill slide
in the beginning of Anonymous, because Anonymous went
after Scientology as a result of that.
But so I was sort of preoccupied with all of this stuff.
On the other hand, was I taking a side?
I got to say, I was supporting the Miscavige side
of the equation, because the world of any broker and pat
broker was distant to me.
The world of David Miscavige and the legal arena
and all the lawyers, and he used a bunch of those lawyers
to help eradicate the threat of Pat and Annie Broker,
by the way, particularly a lawyer by the name of Manikin Ling
and her husband, Jerry Pfeffer, who were Miscavige's personal.
Jerry Pfeffer was Miscavige's personal IRS criminal
investigation lawyer who was representing him
when Miscavige was being investigated criminally by the IRS.
In any event, I was much more in that world
of the legal arena, the lawyers, and supporting Miscavige
at that time.
I believe that he was doing what was the right thing
to do in order to protect Scientology.
I'm very sad about that, in that Annie Broker was one
of the people who I felt the most loyalty to in Scientology,
because she was someone that I had known.
I'd known her much longer than I knew David Miscavige.
And the two people that supported Annie Broker primarily
were a couple called Richard and Vicky Azenran.
And Vicky Azenran had been someone
that I had sort of almost raised in the Sea Org.
She'd come into the Sea Org, and I was her boss.
And I think that if I could look back with 2020 hindsight
and go back to 1984 and start all over again,
I would have been fighting much harder for Annie and Vicky
to prevail in the battle with David Miscavige for the heart
and soul of Scientology.
I don't know that anything would be that different.
People ask me often if someone other than David Miscavige
had taken over Scientology, would it
be a kinder, gentler activity?
And I think that the answer to that is a qualified yes.
It may be a little kinder and a little gentler.
But the truth of the matter is that David Miscavige is
the epitome of the perfect clone of Elrond Hubbard.
He is, if Hitler had the Aryan, the Hitler Youth,
and the rise of the purebred Aryan as his goal,
and if he had wanted a purebred Aryan to take over from him
upon his demise, that would be the same relationship
as Elrond Hubbard and David Miscavige.
He is the perfect example of Hubbard teaching, Hubbard
nurturing, and Hubbard guidance about how you go about attaining
power, retaining power, controlling, and dictating
to people what and how they should live.
His last public appearance was on CBS or NBC in an interview
in 1992.
He was interviewed.
Was that his last public appearance?
He was defending Scientology.
Was that the last time he's come out publicly
to say anything about Scientology?
David, that wasn't only the last.
That was the only.
That's the only time.
He appeared with Ted Koppel on Nightline on ABC.
And he did one, one interview like that.
And subsequent to that, he spoke to what was then
the St. Petersburg Times, now is the Tampa Bay Times.
And that's really it.
He has studiously avoided the media
in carrying on in the footsteps of Elrond Hubbard.
I mean, Hubbard also did a disastrous media interview.
Renata TV on board the Apollo, where he famously said,
I have no second wife.
And oh, yes, only a madman thinks he's not.
For instance, right now, they say we're breaking up marriages.
All right, that's a lie.
As a matter of fact, they're saying that at the moment,
when you've got this book, which was just
about to go on the press, is How to Save Your Marriage,
because it contains thousands of successful marriages.
How many times have you been married?
How many times have I been married?
I've been married twice.
And I'm very happily married just now.
I have a lovely wife and I have four children.
My first wife is dead.
What happened to your second wife?
I never had a second wife.
What Hubbard said happens to be untrue.
It's an unimportant detail, but he's had three wives.
He did have a second wife, Sarah Northrop Hubbard,
from whom he was divorced on the 12th of June, 1951.
He has at least three other children.
What is important is that his followers were there
as he lied.
But no matter what the evidence, they don't believe it.
Do you ever think that you might be quite mad?
Oh, yes.
The one man in the world who never believes he's mad
is the mad man.
Mad.
And he had a very low opinion of the press and the media.
To begin with, Hubbard had a lot to say
about the press and the media and about how the press was
going to make Scientology known.
And he did interviews with a bunch of people.
He did this interview with this guy
called Phelan from the Saturday Evening Post, who,
and Hubbard was pronouncing how this
was going to be the greatest thing.
And he'd chomped the pants off this guy.
And he was eating out of his hand.
And this was going to be the shit.
And the article came out, and it was like, what?
And at that point, Hubbard started writing
about how the press are the merchants of chaos
and that they are only there.
Everything about them is bad and kicked them down the stairs
and throw them out and ignore them and don't ever do anything
with them and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
And that was always tough being the Scientology spokesperson.
I mean, I was sitting there going, wait,
Hubbard says I'm not supposed to be talking to these people.
What am I doing?
But like Scientology today, if you
can find a spokesperson for Scientology who
is willing to go anywhere on TV or even on the internet
these days, I will give you a million dollars.
Because we tried on the aftermath
to get anybody from Scientology to come on,
like literally guys, every single episode we asked,
do you send someone to respond?
We would love to talk to anybody.
We have a standing invitation.
We do the same thing Leah and I on our podcast.
We're like, anybody, if you want to come on here,
just give us a shout.
Well, we'll happily talk to any Scientologist.
We'd love to talk to any Scientologist.
Bring anybody.
Send us Kirstie Alley.
We'll take the nutcases.
We don't care anybody.
Just it's fine.
It's funny you say that because actually,
after the Ron Miscavige interview,
I did my best to pull all my powers
to contact Scientology head office,
send them the YouTube link, and invited them to come on,
to verify what Ron was saying, to give their side of events.
We want to give them a fair shot at responding.
I did get a reply back, believe it or not.
But it was basically just like, we'll get back to you
and go f***ing it off.
Yeah, secretly.
We have a saying.
I tried.
I tried my hardest because that would have been fascinating,
obviously, to have someone from Scientology respond to David
Miscavige's dad, what he had to say on Miscavige.
But yeah, that was a lot.
I think it was always going to be a long shot,
but you've tried, you know, yeah, long shot.
Yeah, that'll never happen.
Yeah, we have a saying they can't handle the jandal.
And I think they're concerned that they're only
going to know media is better than a mistake happening to them.
And they're like, we'd rather just no show
than show up and something happens.
I got to take you back, though, Mike,
because we have, obviously, we had preset questions.
We wanted to ask you.
And no interview I've ever done that's powerful and good
ever goes according to plan.
They kind of go into whatever is necessary to get into.
You mentioned the abuse as you were talking about your,
what we call a deconversion happening,
that waking up, they call it,
or whatever you want to give the term to,
in the light of you having family,
you got right to that and then we took you to another place.
Right.
That dilemma, you choosing between this that I've built,
my children, my wife, my family, my life in Scientology
and getting beat the shit out of,
people around me are getting beat the shit out of,
and I have to publicly lie.
So there's not only the level of like,
I'm lying to myself and dissonance became aware
in your own thinking, but also your pride.
I mean, like just being a man at all,
like I suspect multiple things,
tsunami wave just came and hit you.
And I say that to say, finish off that on what happened,
and then I want to know where Shelly McScavages.
Okay.
No one know where Shelly McScavages is.
Well, I'll tell you,
but your listeners or viewers are going to have to wait,
but just the moment.
Right?
Come back after this ad from our sponsor.
Battery's not included.
What happened was David McScavage
made the ultimate decision for me,
because after, shortly after that,
run-in with John,
who by the way has became a very dear friend of mine.
In fact, he and his wife flew to the United States
to attend my wedding in 2013.
So after that run-in,
I'm still supposed to be dealing with,
or I hate quote, handling the BBC and Panorama,
et cetera, et cetera.
And McScavages becoming increasingly disturbed
about the fact that this show is probably gonna air,
and that maybe it's gonna be a big attack on him personally.
And you gotta understand that the attack
on David McScavage personally was far more concerning to him
than an attack on Scientology.
That he would have his reputation sullied
was of much greater concern
than the fact that Scientology might be dragged
through the shit.
And because of the questions that Sweeney was asking,
he was worried that this was gonna be the focus of the show.
And in fact, John told me afterwards,
that was gonna be the focus of the show.
He just couldn't get it through his legal department.
And that's a whole nother story.
But the show finally airs, and I'm still in London
because you can't watch the BBC outside of the US.
I mean, people weren't that sophisticated
to use VPNs back then and et cetera, et cetera.
And oddly, the United Kingdom has this weird system
of the BBC is supported by your television license.
And it's basically a tax that allows,
because you have a television license,
you're allowed to access the BBC.
So if you look on BBC even today,
you can't add a lot of their programs outside of England.
You can't watch them either.
And it's gradually eroded, but just so you know,
back in the day, you couldn't do it.
And so I had to sit there and watch this program
with David McScavage on the phone from the US
going, what are they saying?
What are they saying?
What happened?
What happened?
And it gets all the way to the end of the program
and there's no mention of McScavage physically
beating anybody.
And I'm like, okay, I dodged the bullet here.
And of course, at the end of the thing, I'm like, yep.
And there was no mention of that and blah, blah, blah.
Oh, you fucking piece of that show would never have aired
if I'd been handling.
And I'm like, okay, like you just can't win.
And then he sent an internal memorandum
to the guy who was in the UK that was his golden head
child of the moment, a guy named Bob Keenan
and said, and with a CC of this message,
he wrote to Bob Keenan with a CC to me
to make sure I got it.
Dear Bob, Render's an SP.
He's gonna be sent to Western Australia
or the place that's farthest away from anywhere.
He's never coming back to the United States.
If he needs something, it's like,
I can't even remember the exact wording,
but it was like, nobody wants this mother fucker around them.
He's just trouble.
You see, he couldn't handle this.
He can't handle anything.
He's been fucked up forever.
And, you know, I'll give him $10, I'm not that unkind.
And if he needs money, he can sell his body on the street.
Oh my gosh.
What the heck?
And I went, okay.
Well, that pretty much took things out of my hands.
And I literally, Bob Keenan,
shortly thereafter says, you need to go back.
We were in London.
You need to go back to St. Hill,
which is the headquarters of Scientology in England,
which is a property that's out in the countryside
with a bunch of security guards and cameras and fences.
And, you know, I knew if I went back there,
I probably was not going to be able to escape.
And so he said, okay, I'm on my way.
And I was supposed to go catch the train
back to East Brinstead to get to St. Hill.
And I walked out the door and got on the tube
and never went back.
And that was the end of my career
in the C organization.
At the time when I left,
I believe that David Miscavige
was the source of all the problems.
And that Hubbard and Scientology,
the sort of philosophical principles of Scientology,
was still cool that this was still the shit.
And that it was just a problem of some bad guy
who had taken over and was doing things
that were unacceptable.
But, you know, if Ron was around,
that wouldn't be happening.
And kind of like physically,
we call it in the Jehovah's Witness X community world,
Pomey, you're physically out, mentally in.
Correct.
Would I be, yeah.
Absolutely.
No, 100% and it stayed that way for some years.
It takes a long, long time to, you know,
one of my good friends says, it's peeling the onion.
You have to peel the layers off.
And as layers come out and as you remove yourself
from the environment, the influence,
the people who keep, you know,
that peer pressure, that social pressure on you,
you start to be able to truly think for yourself.
And it's funny, you know, Scientology,
very cleverly made a big pitch back in the 80s and 90s
that using that slogan, think for yourself,
and that Scientology teaches you to think for yourself.
And this is one of the all-time most astonishing lies
that has ever been told,
presented as, obviously everybody knows this
and come into Scientology and let it think for yourself.
And in fact, it is the 100% opposite.
Wow.
Yeah.
Okay.
I was gonna say, we need to know where Shelley is,
but I was gonna say the same thing happened to me
in the faith.
It was really how all these other people
misunderstood the biblical account.
And so, you know, they just don't understand what they're,
they don't understand the truth of it.
So there's bad people who represent it.
That's all.
And then I started to like look at the text and went,
what am I looking at?
Anyway.
Yeah, exactly.
Okay, where is Shelley?
Shelley, last I knew and probably still to this day
is at a Scientology facility near Lake Arrow Head
in California that is known as internally
within the organization is known as Twin Peaks.
Yes.
But it's really, it's located at rim of the world
and it's also known as mile high.
It's like various names, but this is a very secret location
that the vast majority of Scientologists
and unless they are on the internet
or have watched the aftermath or various other things
which they're absolutely forbidden to do,
they don't even know this place exists.
And it was owned by the Church of Spiritual Technology
which is one of the three organizations
at the top of the Scientology hierarchy.
Those three being the Church of Spiritual Technology,
Religious Technology Center
and the Church of Scientology International.
The Church of Spiritual Technology is an organization
that was created specifically to receive the assets
from Elrond Hubbard's estate and use those assets
to preserve Elrond Hubbard's teachings for eternity.
And the Church of Spiritual Technology
is an organization that takes Hubbard's writings
and lectures and everything he ever did and said
and turns them into what is believed
to be indestructible format.
And what that entails is taking all these writings
and etching them on stainless steel plates,
then storing those stainless steel plates
in titanium containers that are filled with argon gas,
covering them with the same material
that was used for the tiles on the space shuttle
and these reflective metal blankets
and put into racks inside vaults
that are dug into the ground,
like these big, long, huge vaults dug into the ground
so that these materials will be available
in the event of a nuclear holocaust on Earth,
that they will survive and that anybody that comes along
after the nuclear holocaust has happened
will be able to unearth this wisdom and recreate society.
Or if the Angel Baroneye comes along
and reveals to a prophet that there's these plates somewhere
and you can dig up these plates and there'll be a new,
anyway.
Yeah.
Exactly.
Dum, dum, dum, dum.
Many people believe Joseph.
Dum, dum, dum, dum, dum.
Yeah.
And I'm saying all this with a sort of a smoke,
but to Scientologists, this is deadly serious.
Oh, I can imagine it's deadly serious, deadly serious.
Just like the plates.
Yeah.
Just going on, Shirley, Ms. Glamis.
She didn't go, she wasn't,
I don't know if she was invited or not,
but she didn't attend Tom Cruise's wedding
and if I'm not mistaken.
And I think Leah actually kind of made a little bit
of a, or Leah asked, where's Shirley?
And she got into a bit of trouble for that.
She got reprimanded, didn't she?
She got into a lot of trouble for that.
Yeah.
A lot of trouble.
But let me just go back.
I know I get off into these meandering stories
to explain things, but this property is one of six properties
that are owned by CST in various locations.
They have these vaults in various places,
but this one happens to be the closest property
to the Golden Era Productions Facility,
which is where Shirley was the last time anybody saw her.
And it is the place that is sort of the headquarters
of the Church of Spiritual Technology
and it has incredibly good security.
It has cameras and fences and lights and all this stuff
and motion detectors.
And it is also guarded, it's on this, it's very remote.
It's like in the forest and there's two houses
across the street that the Church of Spiritual Technology
also bought and installed 24 seven private security guards
to watch the front to make sure that Shirley never got out
and make sure that nobody ever came in.
And in fact, when I went up there,
for the aftermath show,
one of the guys from in the house actually came out
and I had a little conversation with them.
Hey dude, you work for Talon.
Talon is the name of the private security company
that hires all these people.
And Shirley, I believe, and I haven't talked to her
obviously since that point,
but I was one of the last people to have a conversation
with her before she left.
And it was a sort of a very strange conversation.
I've known Shelly since she was 12.
She was like Annie, one of the original people
back from the Apollo that I knew
that had worked with Hubbard.
I believe that Shelly is not,
maybe initially was taken there up to CST
and was unhappy about it
and not believing that she should be treated in that fashion.
But I believe that she has been so brainwashed
and immersed in the world of Scientology
since she was a very small child.
I mean, she was 11 when she arrived on Hubbard's ship
and worked directly with him.
And I believe that Shelly remains absolutely loyal
to Elrond Hubbard,
but she believes that Elrond Hubbard is going to come back
and reveal himself and that she will be vindicated
at that point and that she was hanging on
for that to happen.
That's what I believe.
Now, that's just my belief,
but that's why I think we're never gonna see
Shelly make an escape.
If any viewers wanna see kind of like a tour of Twin Peaks,
60 minutes actually went there,
not 60 minutes America,
actually 60 minutes Australia actually went there,
did a tour of Twin Peaks.
And I was like, you've got barbed wire,
you've got security cameras.
It's like a, it's like a compound jail.
Like it's just insane.
That's 60 minutes Australia.
You can, it's a fascinating piece of journalism.
If you wanna just see what the Twin Peaks is like.
And that's where you believe Shelly is being kind of,
or lives or being held up.
How did, we don't know, which is, you know, she could be.
Well, Lawrence Wright entitled his very brilliant book,
Going Clear, Scientology and the Prison of Belief.
Because the truth of the matter is,
you can put up all the fences that you want.
You can have cameras,
you can have rules and restrictions and security guards
and motion detectors and et cetera, et cetera.
If someone really wants to leave,
they will figure out how.
You're talking to one.
You talk to run miscavige.
There are a bunch of other people who have figured out
how to get out.
If you're desperate enough, you'll get out.
The problem is the mind.
aspect.
That's what really keeps you there.
Look, those physical things, those physical restrictions
may be a deterrent while you're like in a turmoil
about, should I go, should I not?
I wanna go, I'm not sure.
I wanna get out, I wanna get out.
But, you know, if you make it difficult
that threshold has to be much higher
of determination to leave,
it keeps people to some extent.
But it's never gonna keep anyone
who is absolutely determined to get out.
Yeah, I was just gonna say, Mike, when you left,
and they did this to Ron,
and they did this to Marty Rathburn as well,
did they kind of, when you left,
did they harass you, spying you,
like kind of following you around?
Like, Marty goes on about this, Marty Rathburn,
and, you know, we might get in,
if we got time, we might get into him
just right quickly later.
But when you leave this cult,
they don't just like, you know,
you can't just leave on peaceful terms, you know what I mean?
Like, these guys are psychotic.
Like, they hunch you down, you know, like Ron gave it.
Yeah, you alluded to fair game before,
and that's what that is.
Right, right, okay.
The practice of destroying Scientology's enemies,
the people that they denominate as enemies,
which is anybody that says anything they don't like.
Yeah, and, you know, just the same as Marty or Ron,
you know, I've had private investigators
follow me everywhere.
They followed me to Australia when I came to Australia
to do a show with Ben Seymour.
I actually followed you internationally?
Yes, they followed me to Ireland,
they followed me to England.
Like, they took my garbage,
they installed cameras outside of my house in the birdhouse,
they, you know, have done a sort of an end,
they put GPS tracking devices on my cars,
they sent spies, they rented houses across the street
to spy on me and installed spies.
Seymour's to Ron, they did that to Ron as well, yeah.
Right, and that stuff has sort of died down,
I think that they got a little tired of me
taking videos of it and putting it on YouTube
or it's showing up in TV shows or whatever.
But these days, the fair game is primarily online.
And you will see these very expensive campaigns
that they run to try to smear anybody
who speaks out about them.
I mean, we documented this on the aftermath.
Every time we did a show,
we would always write to Scientology and say,
look, we're interviewing this person and, you know,
how do you respond and would you send someone on?
And this is what they have to say every single time.
So they had a forewarning of who was coming
on the next episodes.
And as the episode aired, or even sometimes before,
when they hadn't even seen what the person said yet,
they would put up a new website, you know,
who is Ron Laskiewicz, who is Mike Winter,
who is every person that appeared on the aftermath
was smeared on an internet site or many internet sites
or many more than one internet site.
And, you know, because of the aftermath,
Leah and I have had a lot.
And they do all these videos,
they get these people to come on and say,
oh, you know, I knew Leah Remedy and she was me to be.
Well, just leading into that,
I think Derek wants to actually ask you just about your daughter
because that was, prior to you coming on,
we watched a YouTube video of your daughter.
It was just, I could barely watch it, to be honest.
It was really heartbreaking.
Can only imagine how you feel.
Well, let me lead up to it because one thing,
I can only speak for me, Mike,
and I'm recovering drug addict.
It's been five and a half years
since I was injecting heroin into my veins.
I was a really, really lost puppy for many years
as addicted to opiates,
but I also was extremely fanatical as a Christian.
It's just a very, very Bible thumping.
Like the way I viewed the world
was a horrible type of reality that I was living in.
And I had this addictive behavior,
which made me personally neglect my wife and kids.
Like I wasn't there like I could have been,
even if I wasn't doing drugs when I was religious.
Like my focus wasn't to be there and love
and cherish the moments with my kids all the time.
The next step was how do I progress
and become smarter and wiser with God's word?
And how do I debate these people for 10 hours
and argue on how I'm right and you're wrong?
Like I did this for a very long time.
And today I know I'm like the dad that they never knew.
And they're really happy to have me
and I'm so glad that I made it there.
So I say that to say, maybe you could comment on it.
There was like a two minute video.
They used your daughter as a pawn.
We know that she's utilized in this.
It's not like one day she calls David in a scavenger
and goes, listen, you need to put me on there.
I can't wait to speak out.
Like they know that this show that just came out
and all that you guys are doing to the church.
Hey, listen, we need you to come up here.
Your dad is damaging the church
and you know the truth of Scientology.
We need you to speak out.
And sure enough, here she is talking
but she's trying to say you weren't there.
You weren't there when she got in an accident.
You know, like you didn't care.
And so I said that for about me on purpose
because I know that my commitments weren't,
my family wasn't the primary commitment.
They were there, but they weren't my primary.
It was the religion or the drug.
Do you think there's any truth to any of that
and saying, look, I was so focused on Scientology.
Maybe I could have been a better dad,
but she's really hyping it up
and playing it out like I'm a bad person
and that's not true or...
I can't think of a time in my life
that Mike Render was there when I needed him.
Or when I, you know, when he could have been there
or should have been there as a father.
When I got hit by a car, when I was eight, he wasn't there.
He, I don't think I ever saw him.
I don't have a picture of ever seeing him
the entire year of recovery.
My grandparents came from Australia.
My mom was there every second
that I woke up in the hospital screaming
or needing somebody or something, my mom was there.
And he wasn't there when my brother got cancer.
He didn't give a hoot about him.
And like I said, this shield is a perfect example.
He's holding it up to protect himself,
but behind there is a black skeleton.
And that shield's gonna crack.
And if anyone really looks just right around the shield,
they'll see the real Mike Render under there
because he's there and he's awful.
Like what, take us into your daughter.
You see what I'm saying?
Yes, I do.
There's a lot of aspects to this, Derek,
but I appreciate your, you know,
being so forthcoming about yourself too,
because it's not necessarily the easiest thing in the world
to admit your failings.
And to do so publicly.
So, you know, that takes some balls and good for you, man.
And I'm so happy that you cured yourself, you know,
like whatever it took, however you got there.
If it weren't for Dianetics, no, I'm just kidding.
It's exactly the same.
But you gotta understand that I told you
my daughter and son, my eldest daughter and son
were born into the C organization.
They were just born Scientologists.
They were born into the C organization.
So, I didn't raise them at all.
Not from the day they came out of the hospital,
they went into a C org nanny nursery
and were raised by the nannies.
We, my wife and I worked all day, every day.
We didn't do normal family things.
We didn't raise kids.
We didn't eat with them.
We didn't do their homework with them.
We didn't do anything.
Right?
None of it.
They were complete.
In fact, when my son, Benjamin, was 11,
he used to live at a ranch
that was near Golden Era Productions
where all the kids of the C org members
who were at Golden Era Productions, they lived there.
And we would go there and see them once a week,
on Sunday morning, if we were lucky.
I was not even in at Gold at the time.
I think I was in some other place, maybe Denver
or fighting one of the legal cases.
And Muskevich decided he was just gonna close down
that facility, that it was a problem,
that it was causing bad PR.
I think a German TV show showed up
and was trying to film there and blah, blah, blah.
So my son, who was 11,
was sent to live in Clearwater, Florida.
Like, that was not, this wasn't a,
are you okay with your child being sent off
to go live on the other side of the country,
by himself, without a parent?
Are you, is that fine by you?
No, it was just that.
He was designated, he's going to flag.
Some people are going to Los Angeles.
Some people are going somewhere else.
My daughter, she was brought to Gold
when she was like 14 and just put to work
because she was old enough to work, whatever.
And so those children of Searve members,
and you know, Searve members are no longer
allowed to have children.
This was forbidden in sort of around this same time,
because they were viewed as a distraction
to Searve members doing their jobs.
Neither Taren nor Benjamin were raised by me,
nor their mother, although now their mother is,
because she's still in the Searve.
Their mother is the most wonderful person
who has ever existed.
Now, I tried to get Taren and Benjamin
and my ex-wife, Kathy, to speak to me after I left London.
I left London and I ended up going, whatever.
I tried to get them to come.
Kathy responds to me with a handwritten letter that says,
I received your message, fuck you,
I'm filing the divorce papers, I'll tell the kids.
The only communication I had from them,
subsequent to that was a series of letters
that were sent by every member of my family,
including my brother and sister and mother,
and nieces and nephews, all saying,
you're a suppressive person, knock off what you're doing,
stop doing this, you're hurting us, blah, blah, blah, blah.
And then my brother, that daughter, Taren,
and my ex-wife, Kathy, along with four senior officials
of Scientology and two private investigators,
showed up to ambush me when I was standing
in the parking lot of a doctor's office,
where my now wife was seeing the doctor.
I hear, daughter, you keep this up,
you're not allowed to speak to my police officer.
No, you can't hear me, I don't care.
You can't hear me, I can't hear you.
I can't, I'm afraid.
Who's that?
Don't you fuck with me, you son of a bitch.
Don't you fuck with me, you son of a bitch.
I happened to be on the phone with John Sweeney
of the BBC at the time, when these people approached me.
And that recording is, on my blog,
it's on the BBC, it's on YouTube,
and it is pretty astonishing.
It's these people that, you know, I'm going,
hey, John, guess who just showed up?
I'm standing in the parking, guess who just showed up?
It's this and this and this and this.
And then you hear the screaming saying,
you fuck, you fuck, you fuck, you fuck, you fuck.
And they're all screaming at me, and I'm like, you know.
Okay guys, calm down, calm down.
Okay, this incident became so loud and so outrageous
that the doctor came out of her office
and asked me if I wanted the police call.
And I said, yes.
So she called and the Pinellas County Sheriff shows up.
And of course, the Scientology executives
who were there all disappeared.
When they heard the police coming, they ran.
My daughter, my ex-wife, my brother,
and one other person remained for the sheriff's to show up.
And the sheriff's came and they interviewed everybody
separately and they did this whole thing.
And they concluded that,
and my wife got a graze on her arm.
I was trying to leave,
I was trying to get in my car and just drive away
because they didn't want this shit.
And she got a graze on her arm.
And so they called the paramedics and the paramedics came
and she said that the graze was like
on a pain scale of zero to 10, it was a two.
And they put a band-aid on it
and she refused any further treatment
or to go to hospital.
The sheriff's wrote a report after interviewing everybody
and said they had followed me there
that I was trying to leave,
that there was incidental contact
that had caused this graze on my wife's arm
while she was trying to hold the door of my car
from being closed by me to get in and leave.
And that there was no further incident.
Now, today, Scientology,
and there are a bunch of now documented,
like gone through and taken all of this.
Now, this Taryn, my daughter is saying
and it's justice for mum is her website
and Mike Rindall wife beater.
I've seen it, I saw that.
It's my hashtag.
And they have turned this into a massive campaign
and now it is morphed into,
I cause permanent neurological damage.
My daughter says she could hear the bones shattering
and breaking that, like this bizarre story
to attempt to create the idea
that I'm a nasty, unreliable, wife-beating asshole.
And now it even, and now nobody will, yeah.
Exactly, who nobody should take seriously.
And despite the fact that this has been documented
up one side and down the other, that it's all just lies,
they just keep doing it.
Mike, you mentioned your,
you just mentioned your blog before,
which is, we'll put the link in the comments
in the description, sorry.
Mike Rindall's blog.org.
You have, I love what you did on your blog
and open letter to your family.
I take it they would never have read it
just based on Ron's testimony
when he came onto the show with us
because Ron, just by fluke, managed to get a Kindle
and he got internet access.
And you mentioned that Annie,
well, I think he found out that Annie,
they said she was alive
and she passed away six months ago.
So I take it that obviously,
I mean, I love that you've got the open letter
to your family there
and one day I really hope that they read it,
but I take it they just don't have internet access.
They, I take it they would never would have read it.
No, I'm pretty sure that they haven't.
And if they did, they read it through the eyes
of a good Scientologist.
This is just propaganda, this lies, everything, you know.
North Korea style, yeah.
You can't convince someone
who is a died in the world brainwashed cult member
that what they believe is wrong.
It doesn't matter how much proof you offer.
In fact, it's almost the more proof that you offer
and the more apparent it is in some ways
makes it, they're more certain
that they have to keep like fighting
so that everybody eventually sees the truth
because it's like it's gonna destroy
their entire existence and their entire universe
if this is pulled to pieces somehow.
So they have to hang on.
And you know, it's the same in the Jehovah's Witnesses,
David, I know from speaking to these guys,
they're like, you know, Armageddon is coming,
Armageddon is coming, Armageddon is coming
and Armageddon doesn't come.
It's like, oh, we've got a new truth
that's been revealed now.
It's actually, you know, there's always an explanation
and there's been a bunch of sociological studies
that have shown that in these cults
where what is predicted doesn't come true,
it makes the people more convinced.
And you know, I watched, there was a documentary
about Heaven's Gate that's pretty interesting
and that was very apparent in there.
Mike, I'm reading this book called Cognitive Dissonance
and there's a scholar I love on Mithison.
I wanna say, man, you, this has been a fantastic show
so far, like I love what you're saying here.
I would love to do this again too.
I just have to say that, but Cognitive Dissonance,
this book's titled that
and it's about the apocalyptic predictions and expectations.
Now, notice something, it's not,
if you ever get this book, it's a red book,
it's written in like the 70s, 80s,
it's not about the Jehovah's Witnesses,
it's not about these other cults.
This is particularly in the Bible, right?
And so the Jews were anticipating certain things
in the Old Testament.
I don't wanna get too far lost in this
because this is a Scientology show,
but I just want you to kinda get the gist.
When it didn't happen,
a prophet all of a sudden had a new word from God.
An angel said, well, it wasn't 70 years,
the Lord said 70 times seven, Daniel comes along.
And then there's this new prediction
and then the New Testament comes and then what happens?
Well, a day is like a thousand years
and a thousand years is as a day.
So Cognitive Dissonance, to me,
the reason they do that, Mike,
just to put it in a nutshell,
you experienced it, David experienced it, I experienced it.
Deconversion, de-converting, waking up, becoming an SP
and really having to pill the layer of the onions off
is a form of death.
It is almost like, who wants to die?
Not me, not you, not David, we all wanna live.
And having to face death, the death of your universe,
the death of your ideology and philosophy, whatever,
that is the tough part.
So we need to wrap this up
because we're already getting to an hour and a half here
and I wanna do this again, you know?
So, David, do you wanna say to Mike and to Mike?
Okay, just, we just touched on Scientology's
official worldwide member count.
It's pretty low, but Mike, what's your,
if you had a crystal ball, what's your prediction
for this organization going forward?
How do you think this is going?
I mean, they're loaded with cash,
their members are dwindling.
Like we mentioned earlier, North Terrace,
they got a great property all over the world.
No one's actually in there.
How do you see this organization going in five, 10,
let's say 20 years?
Where's this organization headed?
Down the drain.
I don't think that there is any hope
for the future of Scientology, but as you said-
And just also, just while I'm at it, sorry to bite you in,
do you think people are still actually joining
this religion cult?
Do you think actually people are still joining?
Like, no, I didn't think so, no.
And if so, very, very few, and they probably don't last long,
unless they have no ability to Google, you know.
Google is the death of Scientology.
Scientology is with us, yeah.
And I think that five years, 10 years, whatever,
they do have a lot of money,
and it takes a long time to dissipate that money,
and they're still making money.
Like, they've still got a lot of wealthy members
who are giving them a shitload of money,
so they may not be making more than they are spending now,
but it takes a long time to spend $3 billion.
I don't know who you are.
It takes a long time, and it takes a long time
for the most die-hard believers to,
if they ever do, to come to their senses.
I'm not sure that they ever will.
The hope that I have is not the end of Scientology.
I don't give a shit.
I don't care whether Scientology continues
to exist or doesn't.
What I want is an end to the abuses,
and an end to Scientology being subsidized by taxpayers
to do things that they shouldn't be doing,
I.e. fair game,
and taking money from people
under false pretenses and then refusing to give it back.
And that's what I, like, if Scientology
was just a benign little cult that was off,
I'm not sure that benign little cult
is really appropriate.
I mean, that's probably an oxymoron,
but if Scientology was more akin
to some self-help group that people,
you can go to a Tony Robbins seminar
and think that you're gonna be king of the world,
and, you know, but you're not gonna go out
and start hiring private investigators
to look into people who were at the last Tony Robbins seminar
and said, I got nothing out of it.
And you're not gonna, so Scientology could continue
to exist and probably it should continue to exist.
In the realm of the great marketplace of ideas,
there is room for everything and everybody in my view.
Like, I don't think everything about Scientology
is wrong or bad.
There are things within it
that are perfectly acceptable and perfectly good.
They just have a veneer over the top of them,
which is evil and is based on taking advantage of people.
And if you can get rid of that,
then those fundamental ideas, you can believe
in the Virgin Birth, you can believe in Angel Maroney,
you can believe in anything you want,
you can believe in Dianetics and Engrams,
all of that, anybody can believe anything they want
as long as their beliefs don't then result
in them harming people.
Well, the tax exemption status is under review
in Australia, by the way, just recently.
Yeah, there's a Sydney Morning Herald article
I was gonna share, but I know we're running out of time.
Mike, thank you so much for coming on the show.
I will put the links in the description,
MikeRindersBlog.org.
Guys, please go to MikeRindersBlog.org,
forward slash donate.
Mike is doing incredible work in the activism field.
You need to keep going, man, because like,
and you know, you and Leah doing incredible work
in exposing this really harmful cult.
And we're really, you know, really, really grateful
for the work that you're doing.
Well, thank you both for having me on.
It's been kind of a blast.
It really has.
It's very enjoyable.
Mike, render ladies and gentlemen, makes you guys,
you know, go to the description, check out their podcast.
Him and Leah are killing it.
Seriously, and I mean that on YouTube.
They need more subscribers.
So go subscribe to their YouTube
because they've got tons of them on our other podcasts.
But I mean, like your podcasts on many platforms.
So I want everyone to go subscribe
to your YouTube channel as well, for sure.
And thank you.
Okay, thank you.
David Samuel, thanks for tuning in.
Ladies and gentlemen, don't forget,
if cognitive dissonance has you forgetting,
we are Miffician.
