Dr. Aaron Adair, you wrote a book on the Star of Bethlehem. Can you tell us about that? And then
we'll lead into Jesus. I wrote a book? Geez, I forget these things. Yeah, yeah. So my first foray
into like proper biblical studies was when I started really getting into the explanations for
one particular story from the gospel story. And the reason I connected to it so much was that
it was actually a story I learned at the institution of science learning what I was working
on. I was at the Abrams Planetarium at Michigan State University. This was still a time when I
was still, you know, describe myself as Catholic Deist. And in this presentation that is been a
part of Planetarium shows in the Americas since the 1930s, though this particular show went back
to the 80s. It was a way of trying to explain the Christmas story completely in terms of
describable, discoverable, calculatable scientific fact by motioning the stars, aligning it with the
description from the gospels from historical records, and lo and behold, we can find when
the star of Bethlehem emerged on that hypothesis. And to me at that time, I was floored. I was blown
away. To me, this is exactly how the creator of the universe should be doing things, that they
have set things up so everything in the machine lines up perfectly when they need to.
But then I discovered a problem. I went home for the holidays and on TV they had a program
also about the star of Bethlehem and the theory they pushed forward wasn't the same one.
Okay, so how do we know which one's right? And I also realize, oh, they're also in totally different
years of when these things are going on. And then I realized, oh, the show that we're presenting
also had to literally rewrite history to like change the date of the death of care of the great,
to make the theory actually work out, and that there's all this hullabaloo even trying to
literally change history to make the thing historical, which should already make you stop
and say, wait a minute, wait a minute, are we going down the right path? And then I find out
there aren't like two theories or not three theories, there seem to be about as many theories
of the star of Bethlehem as people who have written on the subject. So I decided, okay,
let's dig deep and try to really figure out what's going on here. And I really started digging deep
into that. You know, after I was no longer religious, but then really getting proper into
biblical studies, I had been reading and listening to stuff from like Bart Ehrman and other Bible
scholars, they'd like listen to the stuff like the great courses and was like, wow, this is,
you know, really interesting stuff. We can actually like, you know, scientifically examine
this whole Bible thing. Like, when I tried doing that, you know, I got to Genesis two,
Genesis three, got to the genealogies, snore, couldn't go on anymore. And then finding out,
no, no, there is actually an interesting, exciting way to explore this. And so I'm like, okay,
let's do the Bible scholar way of approaching this and then finding out, oh, here's how the
Bible scholars explain this. Now, what about all these other scientific attempts? Do they not know
about this? Not really, unfortunately, I discover more and more about the history of these ideas
and realize, oh, this was actually basically an attempt to avoid the problems that the deities
were bringing up against the miracle stories. This was like an last ditch effort to try to
save the biblical stories. And basically, many scientists didn't get the memo on that and just
thought this was, you know, a normal scientific activity, not an old early 19th century apologetic
that was well past its time. So in writing the book, I explored all the various options out there,
even before writing the book, I had actually written a scholarly article on the history of
the interpretation of the Star of Bethlehem and showed like how it, you know, showed kind of the
history of the interactions of science and religion. I got that published in a major
peer review journal on the subject of science and religion. Then my friend, Jonathan MS. Pierce,
was like, hey, you want to write a book? And I'm like, will you give me money?
You know, more seriously, like I had been wanting to write a book. I had like written a draft years
before, but I, you know, pared something down. I got something like a much more sleek and down to
the point and say, here are the theories. Here's why they don't work. Here's what the Bible actually
says. It's clearly supernatural. Guys, it didn't happen. And we can show it didn't happen. Even
if you think miracles are possible, I actually show also historical reasons why this story
does not make sense. Even if you accept that God does as many miracles as you want him to,
it still wouldn't, you know, line up with what we know about the nature of the Persian Magi or
Roman Persian interactions or the very character of Herod the Great himself. Like nothing in the
story would add up just from a historical point of view, even if, you know, there are literally
ghosts in the machine to make things happen. And also, if you have no problem with literally this
magic star that can float over and point out a particular hovel in a small town.
So I finally write this book in what was this 2013 was able to get some attention with that,
along with my other journal article. And I was even able to go to a major conference at the
University of Groningen in the Netherlands to have this other big panel with other scholars of
history, biblical studies, astronomy, discussing this. I was a third person to go up and give a
talk that day. And I laid out very quickly here the various theories, here's why they don't work,
and here's why this whole effort is bumpkiss. And I sat down the person next to me. And this is
still like, you know, the first day of our three day conference, person sitting next to me says,
I think we're done now. You know, that was the attitude that most of these guys had is like,
you know, we already figured out this ain't history a long time ago. So, you know,
Adair up there, you already figured out the problem for us, let's do something else.
There are still lots of really good contributions that are really interesting there about like,
the history of astrology. In particular, one of the experts on the Antikythera mechanism was up
there, and gave a separate talk related to that ancient computer that could do astronomical
calculations. That's another awesome topic all in itself that he was able to discuss. And, you know,
that's a real exciting stuff. So, nonetheless, I write this book, I can admit some people at least
that I'm doing a good job making the arguments in my approach to the Greek and what it actually says.
One of the people who attended the conference as well, Annette Merritts, who literally wrote the
book, The Historical Jesus, with Gared Thyssen. So, I mean, it's literally called The Historical Jesus.
So, you know, when you write The Historical Jesus, that book should be treated somewhat seriously,
right? She actually cited my translation of the Gospel of Matthew and my points on the Greek
to justify her skepticism of the story as well. So, I'm like, okay, I've got actual Bible scholars
looking at me and saying, I didn't completely flub the grammar. You know, that that felt me
make me feel real, real good. So, I'm still working in trying to convince others to not promote these
sorts of things at the planetarium or to convince other Bible scholars, we should all get on board
with my ideas and also trying to explore maybe there are other literary avenues to explain it. So,
while I tried explaining it primarily with reference to the Star Prophecy from the book of numbers
and the story of a guiding star for Aeneas fleeing Troy, I think there might be some other
interesting background to that that I want to explore and publish on. I'm planning on going to
SBL in just a couple months that is at a tangential point that's related to this, but it's mostly with
the story from Revelation and how it has a star in there and its title. And if I can explain that
there and convince the Bible scholars, I'm not completely full of it, it'll be a premise for
the larger argument I want to make about the even more mythical origins of this story.
I really want to hear more on that for sure and I hope people will go get the book because
all of it's there, it's in the book and they can see what your arguments are and your points being
made about the other arguments and things like that. As far as Jesus goes, I want to hear your
take. You know, I study and research scholars, now I know you're not a New Testament scholar,
it's not like this is your specialty, but you have an interest in this. So to you,
what do you make of the Jesus story and was there a guy or do you think he was completely
made up? Where are you at with this? So I find myself most convinced by the case that's given
by Richard Carrier for mythicism being more likely than not. And similarly to Richard's case,
it is not at all irrational to come to the conclusion there was a guy and that he did
things that then other stories were glommed on to. It's basically to me more of a paradigm
question and which of them can fit the evidence best with the fewest number of added on assumptions
or points of contention. So when somebody says, well, there of course was a historical Jesus,
that's the guy you got killed and all these other stories were added to, that's a totally
reasonable thing. It's where the vast majority of biblical studies is and I would not tell someone,
well, I say otherwise, therefore you should believe me. I think though there are like a whole
bunch of points of argumentation that should move the academy towards more skepticism of the
historical Jesus or the very least more reason that we should be skeptical, we could say anything
about him. So it could be the case there was a historical Jesus and some of the kernels of
his story are in the gospel accounts, but I don't think there's any tools that we actually have
that can actually extract out those kernels to actually show this is really what happened versus
what was later added on because it seems like everything that is told in the gospel stories
is told on purpose. They're not accidentally bringing in details that they didn't intend to
let you know that actually happened, which is often like part of like the criterion of embarrassment
or things like that. They're saying this thing, it's embarrassing, but they just have to tell you
about it because there's no other way around it. My thought process, no, no, no, these are religious
tracks. They are telling you exactly what they want you to hear. So why are you telling you this
story even if someone else might find it embarrassing? The idea that Jesus had to be baptized by John
the Baptist and saying, well, this is an embarrassing thing. So that's why Matthew and Luke have to
change things or John just completely drops it. But if you go to Mark, is there any sign of embarrassment?
No, no, he seems like this is fulfilling the greater purpose of things. And of course,
you could imagine why Mark would create such a story. It now literally has the Baptist christening
Jesus as like the one to come. Like, you know, that's what John is supposed to be doing. He's
supposed to be the voice crying in the wilderness for, you know, to make the way straight for the
coming Messiah. And if the story is then setting up and saying, and Jesus is that person, well,
that's the reason to make the story up. So we seem to lack the tools or sources to really get behind
the Gospels in the way that I wish we could. Now, it's not the case that we don't know what Jesus
did. Therefore, he doesn't exist. That would be fallacious. So for example, I think I very well
prove that the Star of Bethlehem story, the entire birth narratives are complete historical nonsense.
Just because they're historical nonsense doesn't mean Jesus wasn't born. Because someone writes a
story about a fictional birth doesn't mean the person is not born. If I wrote a fantastical
story about your birth, that doesn't make you not exist all of a sudden. It just makes me a crappy
historian. So it's then a question of paradigms and where do we go from there? And so what can
explain the origins of Christianity and its development? And one thought I've been having
somewhat recently that I think goes a little bit beyond where Carrier was discussing things. He
was nudging this, but I don't think fully addressed it. And it's a way that points me even more to
saying there's a general weirdness with the general idea of the most generic version of the
historical Jesus. So I think the absolute most generic version of a historical Jesus is a guy
who gets himself in some sort of hot water that gets him killed and specifically crucified,
because that's what we find in the earliest creed and hymnal statements. So let's take that as the
bare minimum historical Jesus. So no parables, no miracle stories, no special teachings, no
apocalypse now stories or anything like that, just dude did something that got him in trouble with
the authorities that got him killed. So let us assume that along with also he had a following.
That also needs to be the case because we have all these people who say they are followers of
Christ, whether it be the disciples in the traditional sense of being like the twelve apostles,
or just other guys who hang around him and then take on his message. And basically then treat him
as the Christ in some form or another, and especially as you see in Paul. Let's just again say
the absolute bare minimum Jesus do gets himself in trouble and his followers carry on after he's
executed by crucifixion. So I want us to imagine it's 33 AD, let's say June. So this is after the
time Jesus is supposed to be crucified according to our stories. And the Christians are beginning
to preach their message of Jesus resurrected or Jesus coming back. What are the authorities in
Jerusalem going to do? Because remember they've already put Jesus to death for being this sort of
rabble rouser. If his followers are still going around and saying we're going to continue the
rabble, why aren't they being put down by the same authorities that went after Jesus? And instead
they are able to continue this church in Jerusalem for decades and evangelize beyond it.
So we see this from the letters of Paul. We don't have to trust acts or anything else like that.
Just from the letters of Paul we can see that there is a Jerusalem church that he visits,
that it's stable because it lasts for literally decades. He talks about first converting to Christianity,
then coming and visiting some people three years later, and then coming back another 14 years later.
So we got like almost 20 years of church history at minimum in Jerusalem and it basically only ends
with the Jerusalem war. And so I stop and say how is it that this group continues to preach
that they find great solace in the message of this person that either the Jewish or Roman authorities
said we need to put this guy to death and these guys are saying no, he is absolutely wonderful
and we still follow him. Why aren't they being harangued and thrown out of Jerusalem with at least
significant force if not deadly force? It's things like that that make me say okay,
that historical version of Jesus that bare minimum one has trouble explaining itself how it gets off
the ground and actually forms a church, let alone one that spreads throughout the Roman Empire.
On the other hand, if I then try to compare that with the mythical approach and the idea that
they're not preaching a man crucified by Roman authorities, but some sort of angelic being
who is killed in another dimension of sorts or in the higher realms as in particular the way
Richard Cariad puts it, that doesn't have the same baggage because if Peter is going around
and preaching Christ crucified by demonic forces rather than Roman authorities, why would the Romans
care? If he's going around and claiming we worship the guy that the Roman said needs to be put to
death, it seems like then the Romans are going to come in and say hey, no more of this, that's
rabble rousing and we we do not approve of that sort of thing. So if things like that along with
the general case that Cariad makes seems like we can explain the origins of Christianity,
but mind you, I am just saying here's what doesn't necessarily make sense to me. Do we have any
rock solid evidence one way or the other? Absolutely not. It could be the case that we
dig up some scroll from 40 CE that describes Jesus as an itinerant philosopher. Boom,
mythicism is dead, happy to throw it away. On the other hand, maybe we find another letter of Paul
and he explains like to another letter to the Galatians and say, you foolish Galatians, do I
have to explain this again? Jesus clearly was never on earth and he was always just in the sky,
it's only he's coming to earth after he takes down Satan. You know, if we find that letter, well
mythicism is now just, you know, through the roof, extremely likely, but we don't have that
evidence. We must say it's ambiguous and arguable. And that's as far as I'm willing to go. I will
not be dogmatic about this. I will only be dogmaticly arguing we should have the argument.
Thank you.
