Have you ever wondered why a Scientologist after the abuses that we hear from ex Scientologists would
stay in the cult? Reminds me of people who do drugs on the street and were suffering from addiction.
Why do they keep doing the drug? Why are they addicted? Everyone looking in just says stop
doing what you're doing. You don't really know until you've been there. Karen De La Carrier
is going to teach us today and tell us really why people believe in Scientology.
We are MythVision. Welcome back to MythVision podcast. I'm your host Derek Lambert. This show
today on the Scientology topic where I've interviewed so many people so far, really top players in this.
This is going to be a good one. You want to stay tuned. Today we have
Karen De La Carrier and she was the wife of Alexander Jets, the president of the Church
of Scientology International and she was on the boat, the ship with Elron Hubbard for years.
She knew the man personally and I want you guys to hear from her mouth, from her experience,
what it's been like. She's no longer part of the church. They obviously have done serious damage
in her life and you're going to hear more as we do more episodes with her learning about this
horrible cult. I've been doing a lot of cult stuff lately but man, Scientology is something else.
So with that being said, welcome to MythVision podcast Karen and we'll just welcome.
Hi Derek. Hi everybody. I'm so glad you're joining me today because our small conversations,
there is so much for you and me to discuss about your experience and exposing this cult for what
it really is. So the first thing I'd like to ask you just to get us into this, let's just get right
into it. Why Scientology? Why would anyone be loyal to the organization? What does it give them?
Like what, what, I don't understand. Good question Derek. Derek, there's something called a high.
Now you are a remarkable escaping of knowing what a drug high is or was. There's something
in Scientology where you're in this incredible bubble. You're in a room with just the council
and you and the councilor's full attention is on you. You are the only person in the world the sun
rises and sets with you bearing your soul, giving up private data and it's cathartic
and sometimes the questions are quite clever and you kind of just feel exuberant or you feel
all your mental worries, troubles, mental masses, everything goes away and you feel the world looks
brighter. You, it's a sort of an ascensional altered state. Now people get this with drugs,
my goodness. People go to LSD and they're in a different world. They're elephant walking in the
room. So this is, Scientology can give you an altered state and people just cannot get over that.
It's a drug. It's an addiction, technically. Absolutely. And without it, once you have it,
without it, you feel empty. You feel completely... Well, you want to go back to that. You want to
have that again and again. You want that high. So especially in lower level techniques.
Now, Scientology is very deceptive. You're not going to be told what lies ahead
up the line. But right now, I know when people talk to me, they say,
but Karen, you see, didn't you have wins? Didn't you feel elated and exuberant? You see,
they're hooked on that win. Derek, you can relate to that. Give me a little blurb on
why a person would redo a drug after the high. Yeah, I'll give you a quick snippet. I felt,
like you said, that I had importance. I mattered. But not only did I matter,
the drug also made me feel this false sense of, I can do more than I could have done before.
This has made me stronger, more powerful. Alcohol was like that. I grew six feet taller and
stronger and more not nervous to approach a female if I was trying to say, hey, or...
And the same thing goes with heroin. Heroin for me, I didn't feel alone. I felt like
God flew down from heaven and wrapped his arms around me and said, everything's going to be okay.
And you are the special one. That's drugs for me. Derek, you said it so perfectly. You see,
it's a lot. A human being with all his travails and hassles at work and a bad boss and a grumpy wife.
He wants a release from all of that. And sadly, popin' drugs can produce that.
Even alcohol. Why are there so many alcoholics? They get that high as a certain time in drinking
alcohol where an introverted person is all extroverted. The alcohol made him bold and brave
and blah, blah, blah. This is what a Scientology session can do early on. You can get a win,
which just takes you higher than your normal run-of-the-mill existence.
So this is interesting. You say early on and I have to poke because this is amazing.
We know, you know really, you really know this, but I know a little bit now from talking to you
guys, and I say you guys as in like, plural. Many of you who've experienced knowing the secret
lessons of the history and all that. Early on, they gave you just enough to get you hooked.
But you don't realize there's a darkness of why this felt good and what was that release you're
experiencing? Oh, there's a story behind that. So I guess low-level people don't really know
what's going on until they start pitching in the money. So I think it's important to say
the bait and switch is unbelievable. Can you elaborate on what that is? Because here's the
drug. You're high. Oh man, this is amazing. And they keep coming back for more, but now things start
to switch. Yeah. You see, the bait and switch is a lot more than the doctrines suddenly becoming
an exorcism cult where they're going to flush out all these spirits glued on and attached to you
and your body. The bait and switch is they have no idea how authoritarian the laws and the rules
are going to be. If we say dump your wife and divorce, you will do it because we order you to.
So part of the dating switch is how incredibly the doctrines and procedures become
sci-fi out of the world. That's that's a bait and switch. But another bait and switches,
they never tell you how harsh their disciplines and orders and commands the authoritarian side.
They don't reveal any of that until you're several tens of thousands of dollars into it.
Then the hava comes down. This reminds me of my addiction. I'm not even kidding you. It's
everything you said, like my addiction became more powerful than the love. And I don't mean that I
didn't love my family, but like people on the outside cannot understand that. They look at us
and they go, you're a piece of, you know what, you're worthless and you might as well just die.
That's how people are. They're very judgmental. But it it obsesses, it becomes part of your primal
instinct of survival. It's as powerful as food and sleep and water to the point where you're
willing to neglect family members and stuff like that. I just think that's unbelievable the way that
that happens. And all the while you're being love-bombed when they know they can extract a lot of
money. You've got a huge savings account. You've got an IRA. They know every single. They love
bomb you. You're going to be featured on the magazine cover, standing near David McScavige.
If you give the cult five million dollars, you can pose with the head of the church
on the top of the magazine cover. That's five million. Five million hard cash. This is a cash.
This is a runaway money extortion bracket. And you are love-bombed as long as they know.
Oh, my. It's all good. The kitty. Is that okay? Yeah. Let's see the kitties.
Let's see the kitty. I've been doing country and western dance for many years and I used to feed
this straight cat when I was dancing on Saturdays. And finally, I thought, my god, nobody's feeding
it during the week. I got it. I'll put the cat up, but I'll introduce him to your audience. Okay.
Derek, I brought him home off the street. So I didn't know if he had feline aids. I didn't
know if he was. So I brought him home and I took straight to the vet because I got a couple of other
cats and I was waiting and waiting for the test because what if he was a street cat, right? Yeah.
I put it on Facebook and I had all these people can and got the test results because I didn't know
if I had, you know, if he was just had purse, you know, and every test came back negative.
Good. He became my beloved. His name is Tiger. We just discussed pretty much how this is like
an addiction. It's unbelievable, the comparison to the way a lot of these coats manipulate
the same places that drugs or gambling or things like that, because they give us such a sense of
fulfillment. And you, you've surrendered your thoughts to being a slave to Elron Hubbard's
teaching. And the crazy thing about this is you actually knew him in person. But can you
describe what, what it means Hubbard becomes your personal truth?
Yeah, I love that question. See, a person, a human being will cling on to a personal truth,
even though it defies all logic. Look at, look at the way a devout Islam will go for Jihad. And
he believes truthfully in his personal truth that beheading you because you're an infidel
is what Allah wants him to do. He believes that he believes that burning people alive in a cage.
I don't know if you've seen some Al Jazeera videos. I've seen something like one and a half
billion Muslims that believe in their radical Jihad. That's their personal belief.
Does it stand up to objective scientific belief that any religion would order you to just massacre
and kill? But that doesn't stop the personal belief, right? I believe, I believed because of
these early highs in counseling and I would counsel people and they were just now some
questions are very, very clever. Let's say I asked you Derek, what is the biggest lie
that you have been made to believe? Provocative question. Yeah. You're thinking your whole life,
what is the biggest lie? That's a Scientology counseling question. What is the biggest lie
you've made another person believe? You see the questions can be quite clever and people go
how about this genius. Wow. And when you get a session of provocative questions and you get
some enlightenment and you realize a few things, you're hooked. So this is trying to answer your
very first clever question, which was why? Why are they hooked? Why do they stay even when they're
abused? Can I just throw in one little anecdote to make my point? I'll send you pictures as well.
Yeah. There was a CEO member who got in trouble and you know what the punishment was in the 1990s?
They have a restaurant in Clearwater that abuts the ocean. The restaurant I've sent you a picture
right on the ocean and when you are when you are like when you've got oceanic water lapping
against you, little monocles and crustaceans start attaching themselves. That's why ships have to go
into dry dock, scrape off all the monocles and little sea animals that have attached themselves.
And the punishment was to make someone go down at high tide, not low tide, high tide,
and scrape off all the monocles, me in the water and do that. That was the sea old punishment.
And this girl, the waves, the high tide, she got swept out to sea.
She could have died, she could have drowned. Some expert swimmers caught her, she was
half unconscious, dragged her back. And do you know she went right back on the job?
She had a near death experience of a punishment to clean monocles at high tide of a wall and got
swept out to sea and with complete forgiveness to Hobart as a guru came back and went right back
into the job as if nothing happened. So the reason I tell you this extreme punishment story is
even with that kind of brutality and punishment, even when you nearly lost your life, you are a
devotee. You belong. Your personal truth, Derek, overrides all common sense. How personal truth was,
only Hobart can save me. Only Scientology has the secret answers to the universe.
I can't tell you how I can relate and not even just with drug addiction, my obsession in religion.
So I have that relate there, but I think it's interesting. I'd like to ask in this vein,
is there any, because you mentioned this in the first question I asked about why,
everyone who doesn't know Hubbard today, they know why and they never met him. Was it the same
when he existed, when he was alive and on the ship with you, were people worshiping the ground
he walked on? Absolutely. He was God. People would talk to him for five minutes and they would come
back and say, I am floating on clouds. I just had five minutes with the, with the boss or with the
comment. And he was quite extra. He did have a charisma. He did have huge praise. He wasn't some,
you know, the Dalai Lama has that people, people flock to the Dalai Lama. But he says beautiful
things like my religion is kindness. Right. What a great thing to say. Scientology is the
absence of kindness. It's domination. Crike a whip. You obey you lower level fish. You obey
senior command. It's echelons of authority. And you literally are enslaved.
Scientology takes pleasure in making you into a dog.
This is amazing. I mean, like the way you're describing this, this is the experience of
everyone who's left that I talked to. And all you love is Scientology. Your thoughts,
like everything you, it's everything to you, even at the cost of your own spouse,
at the cost of your own blood, you know, your own family. What kind of religion can make you hate
your own family at the cost of your personal truth?
You know, you have absolutely swallowed that Scientology is special. It's better than your,
it's the most special religion there is. And your entire eternity, hundreds of years into
the future in whatever reincarnation you choose depends on the here and now of what you accomplish
in Scientology. If you, if you betray Scientology, if you step out of line, if you're kicked out
of Scientology, you are going to die in blackness and alone lifetime. It's the, it's the version
of hell. You're going to burn in hellfire. It doesn't say fire, but you're going to go lifetime
after lifetime, groping in blackness, in eternity, and people swallow all this. It truly believed.
This is what I mean by personal belief. Once you have a fixed idea, believing that you're screwed.
You've clamped on to this with such proven that you can't let go. Even when the evidence in front of
you is overwhelming that something is wrong. Look, I took 40 years to wake up. So did my
Grinda, my Grinda took 35 years. Well, I was CEO for 20 years, but then I hung on another 20 years
being a good girl, giving them donations. But my son was in the CEO when I was partly influenced by
not losing my son, be a good girl, do everything they say. 40 years of my life. 40. And they,
and they keep telling you, if you leave us, you'll be flipping McDonald's burgers at $5 an hour.
You're going to sleep under the bridge. They really try to tell you, you won't make it without us.
If you start saying, I want to leave. An enormous pressure to keep you.
They not only do that, but they also like have family members turn on whatever, you know, you
tattle on your own family members. You will never speak to your mom again. You will never see your
father again. Your sister and brother will disconnect, disassociate from you. So there's a lot
of emotional blackmail. It's only sustainability is all these mechanisms to make you toe the line.
But Derek, how sustainable is this? Where will Scientology be five years from now?
Oh, I don't think 10 years from now. Where will Scientology be 20 years from now?
Can it really, with such brutality, exist through time and space?
That's what makes me wonder why would John Travolta or Tom Cruise even want to stick around,
other than the fact that they that initial experience of the love use all around you,
they still give those guys every single bit of their worship. They're like little Elron Hubbard,
so to speak. They're like, let's make sure he he's treated like a king and they might have dirt on
them. What do you think? Travolta and Cruise experience a totally different version of Scientology
than rank and file. They're treated like royalty. John Travolta becomes a bad boy every now and
again. You see pictures of him. And he has a whole machine that come and do damage control.
Officers, Special Affairs come and do all the mob up after there's a big lawsuit and he was
fumbling some chiropractor and so John Travolta has a whole personal army of defenders,
his own personal PR machine. That's a nice bit of carrot to stay on.
Tom Cruise is treated like absolute the king of the castle. He has never experienced one day in the
RPF, hard manual labor, cleaning bunkers with a toothbrush. He's he's he's treated like the king
of the world. He's only experienced high admiration, room service counseling. The counselor has flown
to his apartment or house. He's vampored beyond belief, so they aren't experiencing the Scientology
that Rinder and I and all COG members have experienced. He's oblivious to it. So his
personal truth is that Scientology is the greatest thing since Apple popping.
And I want to get in a lot. I want to get in with you in another show on just Travolta and Cruise.
Boy, have I got some stories for you. I definitely want to. I want to do that. But we agreed to just
make these short and snippety. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Drag on and on. We've got tons of topics. Well,
that leads me into the vein. These guys believe just like the initial person who's not got that
kind of money who's just showing up who might have something they can milk, but they show up
and they're told you want freedom. This is what we have to offer. We're going to give you freedom.
But Tom Cruise and and John Travolta, for example, they still believe this because
they've got their big horses that are just producing milk by the bucket and they're just keep
on just keep on milking it and they they feel like there's freedom. I've seen the videos, but
this is what's crazy. The person who comes off the street like me, if I were to join, right?
They offer me freedom. They say freedom from this, freedom from that at the what cost of
selling my own soul. I mean, that's great. I mean, like, great point. One thing I would add is
oh, for 25, 30 years, we've heard John Travolta, Tom Cruise, John Travolta, Tom Cruise. The big
question is, how come no other A-list are ever joined Scientology? I will tell you why. Scientology
is suicide in Hollywood. Absolute career suicide. You know, Tom Cruise has never chosen to give it
an Academy Award, a person to, first, he's never won one, but he's never chosen to even donate.
These guys, the word Scientology in Hollywood, in spite of their celebrity sentiment, it's a death
sentence to your career. Because Scientology has gotten, I mean, it's the joke, it's the butt of
late night comedians give up. So the big question is, they haven't even gotten one A-list after 30
years. That's all they have. Cruise Travolta, Cruise Travolta, Cruise Travolta. No, no newbies.
There's no one else in. Who's any big star? A B-list or a little bit of unknowns, you know.
But there are stories to tell. The version of Scientology that celebrities see,
that the outer world sees, all the fluff and froth on the Scientology TV, blah, blah, blah,
and then you lift up the curtains and the darker side, the inner side of Scientology,
which I hope to explore with you. We can have fun, Derek. It's a big mirage. It feels like
Scientology is like you're walking through the desert of life. Things are so tough. You need
water, you need food, you're in the desert, and you see this, what looks like paradise. It looks
like water and trees and there's fruit and there's, and that's the freedom they offer. They say,
freedom, freedom, freedom from this, freedom from this, addiction, freedom from that, freedom from
this. At what cost, you're actually going toward this, what looks like paradise, but actually
it's becoming a slave even deeper than you already were. Sure, we'll handle some of these
superficial issues. You're addicted to drugs? We got you. Come join Scientology. We'll give you
something else to get addicted to. You want to, you know what I mean? We'll give you something
else to replace this. Well spoken, Derek. Well spoken. So I hope to uncover a lot of
their dirty little secrets with you in forthcoming videos, but we agreed to make this short and
snappy. What would you, what would you say was your lesson learned? Let's help coach our audience
in the few minutes we've had together today. What, is there something you learned
from what I said? I know you suddenly got it on the drug haul and the Scientology hot. You got some,
you got a little bit of wisdom out of that. Yeah, I think that this is what ultimately I gained
from this, and I hope anyone watching was, this is, you know, there's levels of cults and how good
a cult really is. These people really go to the top of knowing how to manipulate the faculties of
our minds and the way that we think and the way that we feel so much that you're happy to give them
your money. You're happy to sell your soul. You're happy to throw your family and kids,
wife, children under the bus. You're happy to do whatever they say. And to me, there's nothing more
harmful than things like this existing and are getting thumbs up from the government.
Like, no, I'm sick of it. I'm tired of it. I've been interviewing lots of X Scientology,
X Jehovah's Witness, X, you name it. And I see a common trait, but these guys are the four star
generals of cults. And I mean, I can't wait to get into this next time. I hope everyone's
cliffhanged from this because she's going to tell us about Tom Cruise. She's going to tell us about
John Travolta. We're going to find out things that you will not find. You have to dig and you
don't have to dig very far when we could talk to Karen to find out some of this stuff. I mean,
there's so much dirt that she really has on the cult. I hope you guys stay tuned and go to her
YouTube channel. She's got stuff there. Also, your husband has a blog, all that's down in the
description. Is there anything else you could tell them that we could look forward to on the next show?
If you are somehow watching YouTube channels to gain a little bit of knowledge, get a little
wiser than you were before you watch that show. And if you are pursuing truth as opposed to the
fraught and fuffer, the propaganda, please stay tuned to Myth of Vision because Derek has this
great urge, this great dynamic thrust to expose a lot. That's why the word myth,
what does myth mean? So if you have any kind of thing in your soul to get a little more truth,
then watch the channel because this is a channel that exposes lives.
I'm definitely excited on the next show exposing more of the stuff that's been going on with this
church for a long time. Elrond Hubbard has a horrible military record. He's saluted by people
like he's some honorary dishonorable discharge. The guy is not what you think he is and we're
going to expose that. You might as well see the dirt. We're not going to hide it from you.
And you know, that's how we do here because who are we?
Ah, Myth of Vision.
