We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
I am joined today with Karindela Carrier.
How are you, Karin?
My sweetheart, how are you?
I'm doing good.
Yeah, you as well.
I'm excited to hear about this man named Bill.
Who is this guy?
What is what is this going on?
We had a fan who was saying that they wanted to hear you tell this story.
And Captain Bill.
Scientology has some colorful characters.
No question about it.
But Captain Bill takes the cake.
He is, Captain Bill was a very senior executive.
I'm sending you pictures in the C organization.
And he was, he was assigned as captain of the Apollo.
About 400 staff below him.
He was captain.
And the thing about Captain Bill is,
he became incredibly fixated on the Xeno story of Hubbard saying 75 million years ago.
My favorite part, yeah.
Captain Bill followed that whole climb and sinker.
So he actually believed it.
Oh, absolutely.
He not only believed it, he lived and breathed it.
And then he was captain, very high, high designation.
And Scientology has a system that when a specific satellite outfit,
I'm refused to call it a church.
It's a brick and mortar outfit of Scientology.
Of the cult.
They send a mission.
A mission is two or three SEAL members who do an overhaul, slam out punishments, crack the whip,
send people to the RPF slave camp.
And Captain Bill, Captain Bill wasn't so much into that kind of punishment,
but he was sent to Los Angeles to an org called Advanced All Los Angeles,
known AOLA, to handle AOLA, to get statistics up, to get more revenue.
And he, oh God, he got a bunch of SEAL members to put on ninja outfits.
So they were black.
And to find offices of psychiatrists and steal their records.
He believed psychiatry was the cause of all evil.
This is a Hubbard precept, Hubbard.
What?
He would summon the crew at night on the roof and they would look out literally for alien
spaceships.
Oh, he said, you see all this UFO?
Didn't Hubbard say they're coming?
The mock-ups are coming.
This was all very demented.
But to get SEAL members to go stealing records from psychiatrists' offices,
eventually Scientology has a system where people knowledge report each other all the time.
Certain knowledge reports went up about Captain Bill.
And he got recalled to the ship.
Like, recalled means come back.
You're removed from what you're doing.
You're obviously screwed up.
So word got out that this guy's doing this.
And Hubbard's alive still?
Oh, yes.
Okay.
This is a holiday.
Hubbard's going.
No, go get Bill.
What's he doing?
Get him, okay?
Yeah, yeah.
Because you can't go stealing medical records.
Theft is theft and breaking an entry and making SEAL members put on ninja outfits.
To steal psychiatric records.
So he gets recalled to the Apollo.
And you know Scientology is full of punishments.
But Hubbard doesn't punish Bill, Captain Bill at all.
Not at all.
He gets put on quite a high post.
So he was removed from AOLA after his binge of stealing psychiatric records with a little
crew he commandeered.
But he wasn't punished.
He was put on.
And Scientology did not see his craziness.
He obviously had some screws loose.
Who the hell gets people to dress up in ninja outfits and go attack psychiatric medical
office?
Who does that?
They did nothing.
They did absolutely nothing.
He showed many little, you know, when you're all living together 24 hours a day,
you can see someone's craziness.
They didn't correct him.
They so-called have the technology to handle all kinds.
There was no, so Captain Bill at one point blew.
Oh, that is the last thing they want.
He started his own offshoot of Scientology called Ron's Org, which is now thriving.
I mean, it's thriving in Russia.
Russia has more or less banned Scientology.
I know Putin is on the verge of a war you must have heard on Ukraine.
But one thing about Putin, which is more common sense than any American person,
is he does not want Scientology in Russia.
And every three months, the existing Scientology cult churches have a raid.
And they come in and they take away all the folders and they take away all enough.
Every three or six months, I've got a couple of Russians who are on my Facebook group called
Automate and they faithfully, oh, Russia raided again.
Putin has more or less banned Scientology from Russia.
But there's this offshoot called Ron's Org.
And Captain Bill died a few years ago, but he gave these incredible speeches
that he was in telepathic communication with Ron Herbert.
And that they were telepathically, and he is in all these lectures, he's completely into
UFOs not being UFOs as described by NASA or what UFO followers believe.
These are the mock-ups.
These are the extraterrestrial good and evil because of Scientology.
They're only circling around Earth.
I have to ask you, like literally before we go, I got to know this.
This is a really interesting thing you're bringing up because in order to know anything
about Xenu and all of this stuff, you had to be OT, what was the minimum OT left?
OT3 is when it all gets revealed to you that you're a collective mass of spirits from the Xenu
incident. So Ron's Org, it sounds like this guy, Captain Bill, does he have the same requirement?
You have to be OT3 in order to know this stuff or is he just saying this stuff?
He doesn't have that pretty much.
But then Scientology ends up at OT8.
Captain Bill took it up to OT42 with higher levels and it's called Excalibur.
And Excalibur, I don't, I shouldn't really act as any authority on Excalibur.
I just get, people sent me this and that.
But in Excalibur, there are these dinosaurs, there are these creatures that are sitting in the clouds
waiting to zap you.
There's, you know, if you get into Excalibur, you,
you know, the higher levels, you've got these reptilian, sinister,
prehistoric, did you see Jurassic Park?
Well, that kind of creature is waiting there to zap you and so on.
And so, look, people really believe, we've seen on TV how people believe they were
kidnapped by an alien that had sex with them.
And then they, they, they, they go into great explanation of how the sexual intercourse occurred
with the alien and they seem to believe it.
What's your comment on that, Derek?
Yeah, no, there's definitely something wrong.
There's, there's psychologically something going on.
They could be hallucinating, a few, you know, a few things that they may not understand
and they're filling in the gaps.
Maybe they have false memories.
There's all sorts of explanations you can really bring up as to what happens.
But it is an interesting point you're bringing up, which makes me think,
they're tapping into this whole ancient alien slash modern alien abduction cult mindset.
And, and it's actually an interesting, what I mean is, is a lot of people are into this
today. A lot of people are into this.
They're far more into this than the old school, you know, David Muscavige version,
Muscavige version of, of Scientology.
So, yeah, I just, it goes into so many things that I'm like, what?
It just blows me away that people are, I guess it's normal.
People have been believing in crazy stuff for as far back as we can document.
But this is definitely interesting because I was thinking the secret of Xenu is not
supposed to leak out, but, but he seems to be like, no, people need to know about this.
Oh, he gave public lecture after lecture on Xenu and so on.
And he, but, but you see his wackiness was visible in the cult.
He gave a huge red flag when he was sent on mission to AOLA by having these nightly meetings
of all the sea all looking up on the stars, waiting for alien ships to come and all of this.
He was never correcting.
So now they have Scientology, which claims it has the technology to handle all
weirdnesses and compulsion did nothing to handle him, nothing.
So now they have a runs or competing with them.
Following this so-called bridge, which leads into Excalibur, which
says, you not only have all these alien spirits, but they're all organized in a structure,
you know, and it goes on and on.
Anyway, so button bill was very colorful.
Now he, he wasn't, if he shook your hand and chocked with you, he was kind of likeable.
He wasn't some monster ready to hurl you into a dungeon or anything like that.
He was, he was kind of likable, but no matter what you told him,
he would direct the conversation back to 75 million years ago in Xenu.
Oh my goodness.
No matter what, if you just talked about a piece of pizza.
Well, you know that cheese game.
75 million years ago, they had pizza.
They had exactly pizza with pepperoni.
Somehow he could not finish a sentence without throwing back to me.
Anyway, that's another red sign, like a red flag, I mean, of, of these cults creating nonsense.
And really, there is something wrong in their thinking as to why they do this.
But they'll like, you talk about Captain Bill.
You wrote me in the email saying, you know, Captain Bill talks about these railroad tracks,
for example, like railroad this, there's, there's, I think it's something like this.
But like, if you go back, 391 billion or trillion years ago, they had railroad trains and things
like that. And it's like, you know, the red flag people who are, you know, I wish that they'd
pay attention to this stuff before they ever joined these type of cults.
And maybe some people do is notice that they're always using examples in the time that they live,
or knowing of things from the past. So it's from knowledge they already have.
In 3000 years, let's just say, we actually figure out a technology that right now we
can't even imagine. We don't even know what it is. In 3000 years from now, we're going to look back
and none of the modern cults like Scientology or Ron's org or anything you name
is actually going to know what that is. And they've never mentioned it. It only comes up
when we finally have developed our science and come to this conclusion in the natural world.
And we figured out, oh, you know what, here's the technology now, what you'll notice then,
hopefully this isn't the case by then, but you'll notice a cult that springs up and it talks about
that modern technology and how that technology was something that went far, far back in their
movement. And it's like, no, why weren't trains talked about in 51 AD? Trains weren't talked about
because trains were never even a thing. It's always something that they know about and then
they incorporate into their cult and say, oh, ours goes way, way back. It's a common red flag
for all cults. So this is a huge flag that this is doing no different than all the others.
Very well spoken, Dennis, Derek. In all these religious academics that you,
and professors, and all these things, you don't really have the Waco UFO followers
in these serious major religions, correct? No. I mean, there's some. My brother thinks aliens
are messing with humans on earth and thinks that they're there and they're possibly,
like Joe Rogan thinks, that they're here and oh yeah, he thinks they're here and they're messing
with us in there. And I'm just a skeptic. I honestly do not personally believe that that's
what's going on. I don't think that, I mean, personally, I think there may be life out there
in the universe for sure. I think it's silly to think that we would be the only thing in all of
the universe. But as far as them like here in, you know, they're here messing with us or they came,
you know, the crash landing in Texas that happened back in, what is it, the 40s now?
No, I just don't buy it. I think when you actually look at the situation, you find that no, actually
we were testing nuclear bombs. We had balloons that we would send into the atmosphere to see
sound radiations or sound waves that would go across the earth to find out which direction
these bombs were being tested. That was the technology at the time. So here you have this
foil colored or almost like this right here on my wall. You see this shiny look, okay? You have
a foil colored weather balloon, so to speak, that is trying to technologically keep up with the
nuclear weapons that are going on. And they go, no, there's a spacecraft and it looked like this.
And there was an alien still in it. There's all these myths. But we hear about these myths
from various cults, Joseph Smith. I mean, the guy said he had the golden tablets and his earliest
followers become convinced in some way he manipulates them to saying things like, I saw them with my
spiritual eye or they'll say things like they claim that Joseph Smith really did show him some
things, the golden plates, whatever. There were no golden plates. There weren't any. But he had
cult members saying there were. People want to believe in things. And especially if you're
primed in this, Xenu sounded fun when I wasn't. I didn't know anything about it. I watched the
South Park episode that's making fun of Scientology. And I still thought it was a cool fictional story.
Long, long time ago, aliens flew over and dropped their souls into the volcano and like
and all this stuff. I was like, oh, that's kind of cool. You know, but it's BS, but it's it's just
funny. What makes it even more funny is when I talk to you, someone who's an expert in Scientology,
like someone who knows the inside and out, who goes, no, like, we really, like, we really believed
this. I think it's so wild. I'm like, wow. Listen, I followed that OT three procedures for years.
See, this is where you don't know how to think because I had already assigned Harvard to be a
genius. When the stuff he said was pretty wild, my thought was,
my case has too much baggage. So I'm not sensitive and bright enough to see the brilliance and all
of this. I find it incredulous, but that's because I am not up to enlightenment, not because
enlightenment isn't true and it's the load of science fiction. No, it was, you know,
because Scientology do put out if you can't, if you don't get it, go back to the bottom of the
bridge and redo all your earlier levels because you're overcharged. Overcharged means you've got so
much negative energy and charge that you can't think straight. So you are blamed if you don't really
agree with it. This is cold 101. I mean, this is the big signs for why you run in the opposite
direction of these things. Like what you said was just a really powerful statement is an example
is if I can't, and I'm using Christianity because I came from it, let's just say, I can't believe
that a guy died and actually died really dead decomposing for three days and he rose from the
dead. So what would they say to me? Well, Derek, you are spiritually not right or you just don't
have enough faith, right? And so this is not even on the level you're describing. I'm making an
analogy to try and point out that it's you're just not gullible enough to believe in this story.
And I've said openly, publicly on my channel, Jesus appeared to Thomas. Thomas doubted. He
didn't go use doubter. Why'd you doubt? No, he kindly revealed according to the story. And I think
it is a story, which means I don't buy it as historically literally true, but he reveals to
him and shows him Phil touch. Okay. Now you know, now you believe, but then the author winks at the
reader and says, blessed are those who don't see and yet still believe. It's almost like I can imagine
Scientology saying, I know that you weren't there. You didn't see Xenu. You didn't know that the souls
dropped into the volcano. You didn't know that there was pizza three hundred ninety one billion
years ago. But if you buy it and believe it, you're really releasing the negative energy the
fatins have left and you're on the right track of enlightenment. But because you didn't quite buy
all of that without like hook, line and sinker without any filters trying to like stop and go,
is this all really true? You just aren't that good of a Scientologist, I guess, Karen. Just like,
I'm just not that good of a Christian, I guess. You know, for me, I'm a skeptic. What do you do?
And I think anyone should practice those type of tools, especially with cults like this that
want you to think a certain way. There's a huge justification. It's quite brilliant. It's very
cunning, very cunning. When somebody has gone all the way up to OTA and let's say they're doing
something very, they're embezzling money and they're feeding up their youngster when they go home at
night and everything. Scientology goes, it's a bypass case. A bypass case is a phrase meaning
you didn't really attain OTA. It was fraudulent. You wrote all the success stories, you attested
these levels, but you didn't really didn't really do it. So the order on a bypass case
is go back to the bottom and redo everything at your expense. Well, how about their specialists
approved the attestation and approved you going to the, this was all managed. Your spirituality
is managed at huge cost, huge cost. Quarter of a million dollars. Go spend another quarter of a
million dollars and redo everything we've given you because you're acting up and OTA wouldn't
act like this. And because you have these flaws, you're a bypass case. Go redo it all at your expense.
That's the way the Scientology works. Any wild conduct of someone who's of a higher level,
no, this stuff. Bypass case. Bypass means you didn't really, really get it.
And people actually spend money doing this. That's, it's sad. It really is because there are versions
of where I came out of, which tells you like at the end, if you, like for me, I believed in what's
called Calvinism for, which meant predestination and that God predestined everything and stuff.
And he is in this faith version of Christianity. You didn't choose God. God chose you. And so
the way you got saved was God chose you and he granted you salvation. So at the end of the day,
if you don't stay in the Christian faith, which I didn't, they say you were never really one of us.
So you weren't like a guy who really was a Christian, then isn't, you never actually were.
So technically, Karen, your OTA, nice try. You were never really a Scientologist. You were never
really, and it's a psychological tool they use to say, go back to the fundamentals, but with
Scientology, they want your money. Whereas this other one's more, this movement is more psychological.
Maybe money plays a role in some churches, but Scientology is so, just so much worse. I mean,
in everything that you've described, they take it and put it on steroids. So any final words
before we go? Captain Bill, interesting alien enthusiast.
He wasn't benefit of another body, but he was, he really didn't lash out to crucify people
the way. So he was a gentler version. And you know, we keep wondering, how do people
swallow? What do they do? Don't forget that the early levels can give you wins. The wins are
transitory. They're not sustainable. They don't last. But when people first blow out
in a spiritual counseling session to get hooked, don't forget that you can. All newcomers to
Scientology who are just slowly checking it out before they give them a lot of money. Listen,
you will get wins early on. You pay in blood, sweat, and tears for those wins as you continue.
Right? Derek, if I say, I'll give you a million dollars, but I want to lop off your right arm.
That's the cost. Lop off with a hatchet. Lop off your right arm. Would you take a million dollars
to lop off your right arm? Well, keep going in Scientology and watch your right arm get lopped
off. That's my final word for this session. Ladies and gentlemen, go subscribe to her
YouTube channel, Surviving Scientology. Karen Della Carrier has been doing this for years.
There are tragic stories. There's not a thing, I think, that you can't say that she hasn't heard
or isn't aware of or doesn't know something about her and her husband, her friends. She has
connections with many people who have left the church. You name it, please go check out her
YouTube videos and subscribe to her channel, showing her some love and support. We thank you
for sticking around and hanging out with us about Captain Bill. Hey, stay away from Scientology,
Karen. Thank you, Derek. That was beautifully spoken, as always.
Stay with us. If you've followed us all the way through to this end, good on you. This means
that you want continuing education. Please go give Derek a donation of any sort or
become a monthly patron, even a small amount. This channel is supported by friends only. Derek
gets no payroll. He's a workaholic. You can't produce one or two videos every day of your life
without work. He's driven to uncover lies and truth in the area of he was bamboozled into this
Calvin Baptist thing, and he's revealing truth all the time. Please join us. Stay with us.
Make some comments. If you've got further questions on anything, put them in the comments. I'll
answer you. Okay. Love you, Derek. Take care. Love you, too. Thank you so much. Don't worry. We're
not going to make you go back to the bottom of the ranks. You're OT8 with us always. And thank you.
Never forget, we are MythVision.
