Welcome back. I'm your host Derek Lambert of MythVision podcast. I have a guest with us today,
Karen Delacrier. Welcome to MythVision. Hey Derek, hey. Thank you. Cold day in Los Angeles,
so I'm dressed up like an Alaskan. Yeah, well at least you have a coat, right? And in the case
today we're discussing with Scientology, there's some people who may not even be able to afford
a coat because so much money is coming out of their pockets to this cult. Do you mind telling
us what exchange is? I mean, we have it, you know, it's clear as you've said many times before,
Scientology preaches fair exchange while thieving, ripping off, and extorting. Tell me,
tell me what's going on with this exchange thing. You know, Scientology is world-renowned
for its money extortion. They're much more interested in your cash, your hard-earned cash.
They're much more interested in that than your welfare. They got you in and now they want to
grade your bank accounts. And they're very trained. They can push your buttons. They can do anything to
get that cash. Now, the reason I mentioned the word exchanges, look how hypocritical they got a
website preaching exchange. And they're saying that you prosper if you follow their advice
on being ethical and giving exchange. Now, let's just look at this, Derek. Exchange is simply
someone gives you something and you give something back. It's a two-way flow, right?
You get something. I'm sure you've got people that love your website and have learned a few things
and enjoy the images and enjoy these PhDs and academics. But so far, they haven't even given
you five dollars. Right. Five dollars. But they get off on margin. That's what we call non-exchange.
That's not fair. If you get something, you give something back. Now, Scientology preach
that you should give fair exchange. Cods wallop, nonsense, rubbish. They give nothing. In fact,
their exchange is sometimes diabolic. I want to mention Lisa Marie, this beautiful child who was
thrust at me at nine years old to do Scientology counseling. She inherited a hundred million
dollars from Elvis Presley Enterprises. I don't know, Derek. I can only guess how much the Scientology
vultures extorted from her. I want Scientology to disclose, if they argue and think this is Karen's
exaggeration, show how much she gave Scientology, multi-millions, for what, Derek? What was the
exchange? That's why this picture speaks a thousand words of what she said about Scientology.
That was her statement. They were taking my soul, my money, my everything.
Good girl that she departed 10 years before she died. At least she came out of the mindset. At
least she was smart enough to wake up. But how can a church, Derek, give me a couple of wise words.
How can a church take millions from someone who then dies at a young age due to drugs and misery
and depression? How can that be, Derek? How can that be? So not all churches are the same,
if that makes sense. There are TV evangelists who will feed you. They do feed lies and they will say,
if you send a thousand dollars in, God will multiply it a hundredfold and you will get a hundred
thousand dollars. For extending us one thousand, if you could send a hundred, you'll get ten thousand.
If you send fifty, you'll get five thousand or whatever they make up numbers. But they say that
what you give in, it's a similar kind of format of exchange. They have this teaching that if you
give in, you're going to get so much more than what you gave in. Oftentimes, that's actually
baloney. If you hit someone who's already a hard-working successful individual and they somehow
bought into this and they said, oh, wow, wow, my business is growing. Maybe they can be duped
into thinking that the reason I'm having success, karma's on my side, I'm having good luck or whatever,
is because I blessed this church. But I could imagine the exchange program that you're describing
here with Scientology is the same manipulative thing that is being used in a different way,
the cans, and they're psychologically getting you to buy the whole hook or the bait and switch,
as you called it, that they get sucked in. And these TV preachers, they do anything they can to
get you to mail that check off to send that money to them. Perfect, perfectly spoke. Derek, Scientology
gives a slightly different spin, a slightly different promise. They're not saying you will get
prosperous when you send us a hundred dollars. We'll do a prayer, a special prayer for you,
send a thousand dollars. We will do a prayer that God will answer. That's the scam. In Scientology,
they promise you phenomenally good health, phenomenally good moods and emotions, happiness,
joyfulness. Their website literally says that. Like, if you read on here, it literally is trying
to tell you, right? Principles of prosperity and health. But you also have some data that seems to
run contrary to these claims. Well, over and over again, you hear of some Scientologists
that did everything they were asked and they did. Let's cover the story of Whitney and Clairwater.
How was she like? I think she was 34 something, a real estate agent, successful. Easily gave them
a million dollars, went up to the highest level, even the Daily Mail covered that, OT8.
Just to show them so they can actually see. Mills reached the highest level in Scientology.
Right, highest level. That means for at least a couple of years, she audited these attached spirits,
which Scientology says you are not a single spirit inhabiting a body. You've got like
hundreds of thousands, millions of attached ghost spirits stuck to different body parts in you.
And she would have exercised herself for two years on these attached spirits. Then she gets to OT8.
And according to media, she did superpower one month before the catastrophe. Derek, you
tell what happened to her. What was the catastrophe? Please cover setting that up and the gunshot. And
Derek, she had what's called Baby Watch. Baby Watch means there are guards around you. They knew
she was suicidal. So they had bodyguards, Scientologists guarding her in case she became
too reckless. But they left her with a loaded gun. So then go ahead, Derek, finish the story.
Right. Yeah. Let me read to you what is being said here and emphasize what Karen is saying.
Built into the theology, if we will, of Scientology is there is a promise. It isn't a possibility.
If they have a rigorous system by which you rank up to higher OT levels,
you are ridding yourself of these negative bad what they call fatens. And so here's what the
particular Daily Mail says. Scientologist, real estate agent who thought she was battling
Lyme disease, set fire to herself and shot herself dead after saying she wanted to drop the body,
which followers believe allows their Thayton to live on. And they say Whitney Mills, a 40-year-old
real estate agent deeply involved in Scientology, shot herself on May 12th and later died. Mills
reached the highest level in Scientology known as Operating Thayton Level 8 or OT8 in 2019.
OT8 Scientologists believe that they have gained control over matter, energy, and space. That's
what they're selling you and time and are immune to disease. Clearwater Police Department says
Mills was suffering from a number of health issues, I believe it, including Lyme disease and
depression. So imagine the cognitive dissonance of being told by the true religion that you
practice. I put that in quotation marks because you are convinced. I mean, remember if you haven't
seen our other interviews with Karen, she tells us how she actually believed the story when she
hit OT8, finding out about Xenu and the whole nine. Like she actually believed it because
you put all this time and energy. You can't imagine that this is all science fiction made up.
You believe it. And here she is believing in something is in a rank where she shouldn't have
this disease, shouldn't think this way, should have control of matter, time, space, the whole nine,
yet she ends up committing suicide and she's wanting to drop the body. She's so sucked into it. So
false promises, cognitive dissonance, all sorts of things seem to go, seem to be going on here.
And this isn't just on the Daily Mail that you shared with me, Karen. The Guardian has this as
well, just to get people on board here. The Church of Scientology has unveiled its new
superpower building, right? Now, this is actually covering what you and I have shown before,
that they're selling more powers to Scientologists by this and you'll have the super quadrant
pastime machine with the, I mean, come on. So it's definitely a con. Of course, there is the man
with the plan, right? The guy who started this science fiction that is the gospel to poor people
like her who got duped into it. So there's my rundown there, Karen.
Derek, you know, I would like, I would like some of the audience to laugh, laugh at me.
I believed in all this, you know, it was incredulous. But because of the indoctrination
I believed that possibly I was not high enough. I was not sensitive enough
to get it. If I had slipped out, scraping in, I would think, ah, that's that negative VT.
There's probably some spirits there that are trying to make me disbelieve.
Right. So this is just laughable now. But denying these incredulous stories of the
volcano and the electronic ribbon and being sucked in and being frozen and glycol, if I ever thought
this sounds like sci-fi, which I did think. I would think, ah, I got an SPVT.
You know what? Something that you say really makes me wonder and I know that you have to have
thought of this. You know, Elron Hubbard and the program of Scientology, this religion,
as he likes to call it, it tells you that you're going to get healthier, you're going to get,
you're going to have powers, you're going to overcome space time and matter. But a serious
question I have is the day that Tom Cruise starts to seriously start get decrepit, getting older,
having ailments, getting sick, might have to have a liver transplant, whatever. I'm curious to know
how his cognitive dissonance is going to work. How is he going to try to make sense of him
reaching the levels that he has and the depth that he has, yet he himself comes to see his
mortality and how his health is deteriorating? How Scientology is going to help you then, buddy?
Well, his end was very, very bad. He asked for his caretaker to build him an electric
shop machine, a suicide machine. So after writing all this thing and starting a new religious movement,
he wanted to die by the very thing that he had preached. The evil of psychiatry was,
look, the electric shock people. They criminal. They fry the brain. Now, I do believe electric
shock is harmful. That's what I do believe. I mean, people, where's the evidence that electric
shock made you bright and sparkly? No. But that's not the point. The point here is he said,
oh, over and over again, psychiatry was evil. Look at the electric shock. And then how about
himself? Oh, God. It was such an earthquake in my universe. It was the Truman Show when
Marty Becker and I would meet with him secretly in a hotel at the airport. When he told me
this was long before it became public knowledge. I had an literally an explosion. I spent 35 years
of my life believing in all this. And Howard wanted to kill himself with electric shock. Did you know
that? Right. You told me this in a previous episode. You told him about it in the book,
going clear. And then they made a movie about it, going clear. Alex Gibney. And the cult never
denies this and the cult never, the cult never. I wonder what Tom Cruise, what Tom Cruise will
start thinking when his health deteriorates? Well, he seems completely brainwashed on it, but
yeah, it just makes me wonder. Yeah. So anyway, we're looking at them, the hypocrisy of preaching
exchange. They took a huge amount of money from Whitney. And then were you going to finish what
she did to herself? Oh, yeah. Go ahead. I thought I said that. Yeah. So she set herself, so yeah.
Yeah. So she shot herself and of course caught herself on fire. Mill set herself on fire and
shot herself dying a day and a half later. So that's pretty crazy. I mean, how far do you want to go
to take your life in your OTA? I mean, you promised this religious freedom from this thing.
And that's scary because at the end, the fact that they're saying at the end she wanted to drop this
body, she's so trapped in their thinking. And you know what that's like, Karen? That she can't escape
it. But their promise fell flat on its face. False promises. Just make sure you pay me.
So while Scientology taught the philosophy of your only ethical and moral, when you give equivalent
to what you get, your exchange must be there. While they taught that, spout that, the way they handle
seal members slaved them 60-hour weeks, 80-hour weeks. But if they leave, if they
won out after 20 years, no medical insurance, no pensioning, no 401K, nothing. They leave with,
well, no, they're embarrassed because people would live under a bridge as a homeless person. So now
they give them $500. They give $500 good-bye, good-bye pay for having worked 20 years, 30 years
or whatever. But they're preaching exchange. They're preaching exchange. Now, I want to move on to
Micrenda, a dear, dear friend of mine. And you know Micrenda, he's graced your channel with some
sizzling stuff very high up. That video was a runaway. Micrenda was on the Apollo at 18 years old.
And he went there for training, but they kind of corralled and kidnapped him. And then he was
there the next 35 years. And he's, Derek, he's slaved for them. He did. He did. 60-hour weeks,
80-hour weeks. And he was brutalized. He told on Australian TV how he was violently punched
by Ms. Kavage. Introduces his trusted lieutenant, Micrenda, to a 2004 Scientology event.
Prinda claims David Ms. Kavage physically assaulted him many times. David Ms. Kavage,
the leader of Scientology, creeping up behind you and strangling you. Did that happen? Absolutely.
It happened more than once. He's a very volatile personality. He will lash out for
uncalled for reasons. 50 to 100 times just violently and brutally assaulted and you can't
hit back. It's like if a pope was slapped, you would be like hitting the pope, you know.
So I want you to read this excerpt because it shows Scientology exchange. Micrenda worked
and then he was the church spokesman for 20 years. He was uncalled. He had to get up,
if he was called, two in the morning, get on that plane at six that leaves for London.
He was a complete and utter slave. He believed in the bigger picture. We're helping mankind.
Right. So please read the paragraph I sent to you. Okay. So this is from his,
yeah, this is from his book, A Billion Years, page 189. Ms. Kavage arrived after we had been
standing in the dark for about 20 minutes and informed us we were being offloaded from the
Sea Orb on a bus the next morning because we, sorry, we were hopelessly incompetent and counter
intentioned cocksuckers. To outsiders, this might sound like this would be a blessing
and end to the insanity. But to a Sea Orb member, this was the ultimate humiliation and it would
also mean the end of our relationships with any Scientologist, including any family members.
He was once again making clear that he completely controlled everyone's fate
and that with a snap of his fingers, your life as you knew it could end.
That was daily treatment till finally he left with the shirt on his back and nothing else.
He could, you do reach a threshold. You reach a threshold. And Michael often talked in the
book of how he had to live in some camp in the desert and put on his clothes the next day,
talk to an audience of 2,000, 3,000 people as if life was good and then go right back to
the sea. Either they mentioned what they called SP whole or living and
you have learned from so many academics. What do you think when you hear stories like this?
I mean, honestly,
yeah, as far as like where they're in a coercive kind of situation, I'm reminded of maybe
certain Mormon LDS cults where women are forced to marry family members or even
sister, wife situations. I'm reminded of Jim Jones in a way, not quite, but like compound
where they have a compound where you're not allowed out. Nobody knows what's going on in
unless you infiltrate it. There is no mass suicide, but it's not far off from who knows
what will happen to these people. I'm also kind of thinking in a weird way of the Inquisition,
not completely, but like there's a systematic way of finding heretics.
You remember the Salem witch trials and like there were witch trials back in the early
Americas where they thought these little girls were witches and just strange superstitions that
are built within this corrupted mindset, theologically, that Elron Hubbard has probably
kind of planted those seeds through his literature, making people like Miscavige really capitalize on
these kind of things. And so, yeah, those are a couple of things that come to mind.
Also, how could Hubbard, if he was such a genius, let it all fall to a psychotic like Miscavige?
How can that even be? A genius sets up, you know, the change of power,
sets up some checks and balances. Miscavige is a madman, a madman. But what I wanted to ask you was
when you did a little comparison there, what about the assault and battery, the punching,
the humiliation of being sucked? There are so many, I don't know if you've ever
talked to Jefferson Hawkins, and he really covers the beatings he's slamming, body slamming from
Miscavige. How can a religious leader be allowed to do so much assault and battery? Does that come,
do you have any other religion where the head honcho can punch and slam and body slam
and punch in the gut and knock the wind out of someone? Do you have, does that happen?
I don't know of any that do that specific thing. The closest thing, and I could be,
there's probably someone out there, I'm pretty sure there are, but what it reminds me of
in a different way is the religious cult leaders who are sexually perverted in some way that they
go and they want multiple wives. Usually cults always have multiple wives and they're abusive
in those kind of relationships enforcing some of these things to take place and happen.
I can't imagine that everything is completely, you know, just total voluntary in every respect.
Some of these cases seem to be with the threat of violence. I don't know if violence has taken
place. I'm thinking of down in Texas, the the well-known cult that the building got burned
down and the guy was sleeping with all the women. And what is it? I can't think of his name right
now. But anyway, there's lots of these cults where they take advantage of these kind of things. But
as far as David Koresh, yeah, I was thinking of him, I can't imagine everyone, maybe they were
so duped into this that they thought it was normal and it was okay because he's the prophet.
But I don't know anyone else who just physically goes around beating people and,
you know, I just don't know. It's incredulous to me the way Scientology cannibalized their own.
Yeah. And I'm trying to think of the psychology behind it. Tell me if you agree, Derek.
I think the message being sent is if we punish the hell out of you, you're going to do better.
I think that because it because why on earth would anyone take their willing slave or not
allowed to have babies, not allowed to have a day off, get little to no pay, get absolutely the
medical the cult uses is the government. CO members are sent to free. There's always free medical
for hobos and indigents and student doctors train on the student doctors that train their first
surgery is done on a freebie. Yeah. Indigents and hobos and all that they can't pay.
So doctors can practice on them. And USC, University of Southern California, just down the
road there, they have this. But you have to sit on a bench with hobos for six hours,
while a student doctor eventually gets to you. And that's where they send CO members for free
medical. Right, right. They're sitting with $3 billion, Derek. They won't pay for medical.
You go to freebie places. All the abortions that they did for 25 years, forced co-est
abortions were done by Planned Parenthood, which is paid by the US government. So if it's a freebie,
you don't pay Planned Parenthood. They will abort the baby for nothing. And that's very
Scientology. So what would be the reason to be so punitive? The thought behind it is if we
whip you, you'll perform better. So it's management by punishment. Right. The only analogy I can make
right now, because you're into what you study at the moment and the things you think about,
is the only reason anyone would want to behave and do the right thing is that they believe they're
going to go to hell and be punished for all eternity. So when you teach this idea within
Christianity or Judaism, or certain forms of Judaism, very little, but there may be some forms
that have this idea, but Islam for sure, they teach you will go to hell and burn forever.
And it is a way to control the behavior of the people. And in some cases, you might find monks,
aesthetics, people who aren't part of the normal crowd, whipping themselves, wearing uncomfortable
clothing, weird things like that throughout history, because they're trying to maintain the
right kind of behavior and how they should be. That's the only analogy I can get. And in this
case, it's a bit different. But if you can scare the hell out of them, then maybe they won't go to
hell, right? Well, if you abuse them, I imagine they think psychologically this will keep them
silent, this will keep them cooperative, obedient, things like that. And yeah, that's how I'm seeing
that. There's no heaven or hell in psychology. Right. I'm just using an analogy that people,
some people say, the people that I engage with sometimes that are fundamentalists, that I
want to try and get them to educate themselves. They will say stuff like, you know, what's the
point? There's no purpose. Why can't I do whatever I want since there's no heaven or hell to worry
about? Then I can do whatever I want. And so they want to teach, well, the reason I won't do that is
that God's going to punish me and burn me forever in hell. And I would say that if you believe in
that kind of God, then in a way, you have a David Muscavige God that is going to punish and burn
people for all eternity. And so it's a different analogy because God's not necessarily beating
you. But if your life is hard and you're struggling and you end up with diseases or you're poor and
you're, you're always getting the bad scent, the bad end of the stick, you're always having a tough
karma, if you will, to use an analogy, then maybe God is punishing you, but he's going to reward
you one day in heaven. Maybe, or maybe, as some people thought, you need to stop because you're
secretly sinning somehow. So the reason you're getting punished is God's punishing you because
you're, you're sinning or your parents sinned and you're getting all of the sins now in your life.
And it's like a punishment. So that's the only analogy I would have compared it to that I'm
aware of. I'm sure there are cults out there where their leaders beat the crap out of people into
submission. Very good, Derek. That's there's an excellent point. So I'm excited to do the next
video with you, Derek, but I want to end off on one sentence, just one sentence, which you could
think about. Scientology, and I'm quoting, I didn't originate this. A wonderful hero in
Scientology is a woman called Paulette Cooper, who was fair game. They practically, they wanted
her to have a mental breakdown. They say they anti-psychiatry, but they want psychiatric
punishments. They behave worse than any psychiatrist. So the sentence Paulette said that I want to end
off this video on is, Scientology is worse than anything you ever imagined. As we leak out a
little this and that, if you don't agree with that on the spot, you will agree.
This is a warning, beware. Scientology is worse than anything you even imagine.
Spoken from a gullible fool who believed in it all, and trained up, did everything, everything
they asked to class 12 CS. For 35 years, I was this dupe, maybe I had a brain, and I was a hole.
I said, don't feel bad, Karen. I did it too. I was speaking in tongues and gibber jabbering and
rolling on the floor and thinking that I was literally in the presence and all this stuff.
I know what it means to really believe. I know what it means.
Well, thank you for staying with us and learning some things. And especially, thank you to this
Myth of Vision channel. This is unraveling the lives and unraveling how we can believe
when you believe you are screwed. You've lost all your critical thought. Now, you keep your
exchanging and become a patron, even if it's just a little help support the channel. Don't be
ripped off. Don't enjoy and give no exchange. Give some exchange, and you'll feel better.
Bye-bye, everyone, until the next video. Take care. Thank you.
