In the Church of Scientology, you have to pay millions of dollars to reach the rank of O.T.8.
And when you do, especially during the time of Carandela Carrier's days,
you will find out something about Elron Hubbard that's quite disturbing.
Not only does he claim to be the Antichrist, but he himself claims that Jesus was a boy lover.
Maybe he's trying to fill the shoes of a divine one.
Let us know what you think about this episode.
Okay, we are recording. Three, two, we are MythVision. Welcome back to MythVision podcast.
I'm the host, Derek Lambert. And today, the co-host, I like to consider her a host because
she's often on the show. You could call her a guest or a host either way. Carandela Carrier
is joining us today. And when I say that she has her credentials in Scientology,
she knows what she's talking about. Welcome to MythVision.
Derek. Derek, dear. Hello. Hi, everybody. It's really good to have you back here, Carand,
for anybody who's really just now tuning in, and maybe they haven't seen our series of videos,
really go back and watch them. You can also check out her YouTube channel, Surviving Scientology.
It is a must, must watch. There are so many wonderful things. Her husband right now in
particular is also doing a deep dive in the money and looking as a private investigator deep into
this cult, its impact in a financial way, as well as other avenues. They have very close
connections to many high up leaders that were in this cult that know a thing or two, and I mean
a thing or three or four or five or six or seven, about the horrendous things that happened within
this cult. And also today, we're going to be mentioning our good friend, Tony Ortega's blog.
Go to TonyOrtega.org. Make sure you go subscribe to our friend's blog here because
this particular issue is on, was he saying he's the Antichrist? And I think it's best that I
refer this to the experts, the expert, Carand, to take us into the topic, what is going on
with Elron Hubbard and this Antichrist statement that he makes?
Yeah, I have to backpedal just a little bit. Please.
To what it costs to get up to the highest level of Scientology called OT,
OT Operating Equipment 8. It's OT 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8. Easily costs a million dollars.
Easily, easily. And OT 7 is when you exercise yourself. You're not sitting with an auditor
doing commands to get these attached spirits out of you. You are doing it by yourself, so.
And people are on this for two, three years or more, 10 years sometimes,
before they can launch onto OT 8. The reason I'm telling you this is
OT 8 is considered a level where you are really trustable. You went through exorcism for years,
you've paid them every six months to interrogate you because that's, once you're on OT 7,
you have to return to flag for interrogations to be sure you have clean hands. So you're really
trusted. So this motion of what Hubbard said was to trust in insiders. This wasn't broad public.
We are making it broad public issue to the world. So let me get this straight. These are people
that, like yourself, who paid unbelievable amount of money. I mean, your late husband was a top dog
in this entire operation. I mean, he was a head honcho. And so these top leaders are getting the
inside scoop of information at the level of OT 8. And what they are hearing typically is like,
all right, cool. I'm about to transform. I'm about to have powers like none before. I'm going to be
able to say an existence and think things into existence and teleport. And there's no telling
the kind of powers I'm about to have. This is the kind of mindset that it sounds silly on the
outside. But in reality, you are convinced you're a God. You are a God. And this is what OT 8 is.
It's saying, you want to move on up to Godhood? Join us. And they are. And here's the kind of
message they end up finding at the top of this rank. And they're shocked to hear what is said.
And of course, we're leading into that. But tell me, tell me, tell me more. I'm interested.
So this is the inner circle who finally got clearance to do this high, high level.
Now, OT 8 has been modified and modified. At least there's five different versions of it.
That in itself is absurd. Nobody writes a finite level and then changes it to five
different editions or versions. But this level was catastrophe. Disaster. And I'll explain why.
This level was people came back. And I know one personal friend of mine, Christine,
shared a complete mental breakdown. And then she went into Buddhism,
never to touch Scientology again. But people were just, many people just exited Scientology.
So this is why the opening issue of the secretive OT level.
Hubbard talks about Lucifer, the Antichrist, and he talks about it. And he actually calls Lucifer,
the bringer of light. Does that work? Have you ever encountered that?
Yeah, yeah. That's actually what the word means. It means the bringer of light. However, in Church
doctrine, Lucifer, the bringer of light falls and becomes what we call Satan. So Lucifer,
according to Church theology, is right up there with God. I guess he was OT 8.
And then he falls. And when he falls, he becomes Satan or the evil one, because he was so close
to God and then he falls down and becomes an enemy of God, according to the Christian doctrine.
I see. Is there any explanation of why he fell? Was he jealous of God? Do you want to be
on par with God? What caused the fall? Do you know?
I think it's pride. But yeah, I would think jealousy maybe could be an example for him
wanting to rise above God, because there's a passage that is interpreted by Christian doctrine
that Lucifer thought, I will be above. I will rise above God. I will be above. And of course,
that didn't work out so well, according to Christian doctrine. And he gets cast out of heaven.
And yeah, him and his angels are cast out of heaven. And sure enough, there's this war. There's
a constant war happening. But the interesting part that you're discussing here, sure, he mentions
Lucifer. But then he talks about this thing you said, Antichrist. Tell me about that. What is it
that Hubbard mentions there? So Hubbard describes Lucifer and then identifies actually,
actually identifying an identity of him being. First, he talks about the bringing of light,
which you think, well, Hubbard brought out all these new innovative techniques of the mind.
Then he goes on to identify himself as the Antichrist. And the next mom shall he immediately
goes into, which may be really offensive to Christian viewers of yours, is he says, oh, come on.
Jesus was not what he was trapped up to be. Not at all. He was a lover of young boys.
In our language, we say pedophile. So where he got this from, or what reference, what documentation,
what scientific evidence, because there's nothing in the Bible. But he really states
that Jesus was a lover of young boys. This is all in the same issue. Now, you know, Derek,
this was peddled all over the web. It starts off by saying, by the time you read this,
I would have already left my body and moved on to the next incarnation. And I read this and I thought,
my God, his enemies have dropped up a piece of propaganda. There's no way. This is a demented
issue. So as a Scientologist, you read this and you interpreted this and said,
there's no way Hubbard wrote this. Exactly. In my world, I thought, geez. And you know,
I've talked a lot about Hubbard's flaws and his, so it's not like I'm pro-Hubbard.
But even I couldn't. It just didn't ring true to me. And I remember for 20 years of my life,
I studied Hubbard every recording, every lecture he made, thousands of lectures,
he wrote thousands. I know his style. I know what's Hubbard and not Hubbard. And I could not,
with all that education into Hubbard, I could not accept it. So I tossed it off as like, you know,
he's got a lot of enemies, this and that. And then Steve Hall, a dear friend of mine,
who was at Inkbase for 20 years, there's something in Scientology called CSW.
And CSW is simply what we call in the outside world, an RFP. Do you know what an RFP is?
Request your proposal. Let's say you work for a huge entity that builds spy satellites.
And you want to submit to the government that you can build these satellites for the
national reconnaissance agency. Well, they say, okay, do an RFP. Request for proposal means you
lay it all out. Absolute line by line. We'll build 22 spy satellites. We'll build them with
heat and thermal recognition. So you can spot the copyright C on a golf ball from one mile up
in the air. You're writing it all out. You're proposing why you want multi-million dollars
from the government, because you've got the technology and then you get the price and then
you give the timeline. It'll take us two years to deliver. Boeing does requests for RFP all the
time, right? So an RFP, mostly your audience would understand an RFP, they wouldn't understand CSW,
they're one and the same. CSW is simply proposing it all, laying it all out,
giving the timeline. That's what it is. So Steve Hall is in the cult hierarchy,
and he's looking at a CSW. It means completed staff work, meaning the proposal is right there.
And the touch to the CSW, which was traveling up the Comanche, was this Hubbard's declaration
where he asserted he was lucifer. He incarnated in this and that, but he was lucifer. When he
read it on church property in a CSW, which is completely, it's the ultimate doubt. When you
submit a CSW, you're proposing something to the highest echelons to become reality. There's not
some dilly-dally little request for proposal. So my question is on that, I got to ask you,
this is interesting. Do we know how it ended up in the CSW and was it someone who was high
up that heard this that was like, what the hell? I'm not okay with this. And they put it into the
CSW so that they wanted this to get out? Or how did it end up in the CSW? Was Hubbard himself put it
in it? No, no, no, no. No, what it was is all I can only answer is it's authenticated to me
that they not only had the issue available, but if this were some outrageous, fraudulent,
fraudulent, manufactured enemy thing, it could not have been part of a church submission.
What it meant to me was they had this document and they knew it was, you see,
what Hubbard has said is cast in stone with an atomic brand iron.
Cannot change what Hubbard, Hubbard, before he died went on and on and on and on about not changing
a single word he said. His word was biblical law. In all these religions you examine,
was the prophet or the head honcho, was his word biblical law? Yeah, I mean, technically,
what they said, it's kind of a difficult question to ask during their time, maybe not,
but it became what Christians will say not a single jot or tittle, right? Certain Jews would
say about the Torah, like, no, it is perfectly the way it is. Don't change it and you better keep
every single word there. Islam is the same way with the Koran. They're like, do not mess around,
it is perfect dot for dot. So it sounds like this is what Hubbard's doing and just to,
like, just appear into your mind here as we went. You're suggesting, you don't know how it got into
that. What it does tell you is that this tells you this would not be in a CSW if this was not
Hubbard, if this was not authentic, if this was not real, it would be highly questionable if you
heard it in the newspaper locally, if you heard it in a local church down the road talking about
Hubbard. No, in church doctrine, in the, this is like from the Pope writing a letter about the
church. You're going to listen to what is being said here. You know it's authentic and that's
what you're trying to convey. And then Steve told Tony, or Steve actually elaborated on this
David Miscavige, the dictator, the absolute Pope of, he likes to call himself the Pope of
Scientology, can't go higher than Miscavige. David Miscavige presented Steve with this
doctrine. David Miscavige had it in his hand. And R. Steve, and a wannabe biographer of Hubbard,
they can never bring out a biography of Hubbard. This guy, Dan, has been on it for years, but
there's so much that's leaked out that they can't produce. Look, although authors have done all kinds
of bios, Mademoiselle, book after book on getting bits and pieces, going through all these books
inside Scientology, they look into the mind of Hubbard, but the church cannot produce a biography.
Why? There's so much, there were so many fabricated lies right now, and they caught
and all the internet disclosures. So, so Miscavige comes up to Dan, the biographer that never
produces a biography ever, and Steve, and says, Miscavige has penetrating blue eyes,
and he looked at it, and he looked at Steve all and said, read it, what do you think?
Steve, a 22 year veteran, he feels, if you answer wrong, you could get the next seven years in the
dungeon, or you could be just completely, you've got to be very careful how you understand
Miscavige, he is a Stalin, he is a Mussolini, this is, there's no, there's no mercy, there's no
forgiveness, there's only a whip and flogging and psychological destruction to, to you become a
little dot, so he, he looked, doesn't know what to say, this, this is, this is, Hubbard says he's
anti-Christ and Jesus is the, so he thinks, I'm going to just play it safe, because he knows
what punishment he goes, well, I think it's cool, he thought there was a very safe middle ground,
and David Miscavige turns around to him, very, very, one day we've got to do a show on Mark
Yeager, Mark Yeager is a fabulous guy, but he's pulverized Mark Yeager, he turns to Mark and
says, there you are, you're fucked, I love to say that word, you know, like making Mark Yeager wrong
for not liking this issue at all, and then David Miscavige decided all by himself to put this on
OT8 for the upper crust insiders who'd paid over a million dollars in Scientology with the belief
of becoming this God, Superman, he was going to share, he thought, well, Steve Hall just told me
it was cool, and he decided, and then, oh God, it was catastrophe, met, of those first 184 that
did it, mostly, the exit of those OT8s, and then one guy who did the original called George White,
he went to Tony Ortega, and he showed his cert, and he verified, see, there's independent verification
that Jesus, can I send you, in the description we do, I'd love to send you George White's pictures,
and his authentication that Jesus, that Herbert said he was anti-Christ,
he was there actually having to study, and then he was gone, he knew, boy, I've taken the con,
I've taken the con for years of the icing on the cake. Now, in Scientology, there is always a who,
a who means when there's a complete catastrophe and disaster, we have to roll it back
to find a single perpetrator or source of this, and the who that they found was Laura Wolfe,
because she case-supervised OT8, and she just did what was presented to her to do,
but they said she was the who, and they summoned her to in-base for torture,
and I don't know what they did to her, but in six months she was dead and gone.
So, because you have so many religious experts and scholars, I want to just tease you to tell me,
what would be the benefit of a New Age religion?
Putting forth that the source of this religion was a dual Dr. Jekyll-Mr. Hyde,
he could give you all this, but he also had a very dark side. What does it make sense?
To be honest, that's really weird that he would say he's the antichrist,
that something to do with Lucifer, that Jesus is a boy lover, that it's just kind of odd coming
from that context. You know, I've dealt with people who are critics, I've dealt with people who
are fans, who are devout Christian, who are haters of Jesus, and even the haters of Jesus,
if they said, Jesus liked guys, I've never heard them say he was a pedophile. Even the
haters of Jesus that I've talked with, they'll say stuff like, I think Jesus, he hung out with
guys all the time, he's probably gay, but not like he is a pedophile. I guess what I'm getting at
is there seemed to be something weird there, and that would have been one thing if that was the
only statement he made was that, well, Jesus isn't who you think he is, and you just made
that statement, but then he said that he's the antichrist. So what it calls into question for me
is, is this a cult leader move, that it's somehow thinking it's hip and cool to act like
he is somehow an antichrist by making the Christ figure actually a bad figure, and saying that
the antichrist is actually the good figure, which is me, which is a weird reverse psychology, or
is Hubbard trying to, is there something wrong with Hubbard? Is there something mentally off
that he is just saying a bunch of ridiculous odd crap, because he himself is not saying,
I don't know, it's a good question to ask. This was written in the last two, three years of his life.
There's a lot of data that he had at the start of dementia and all the time. This is a fact,
the cult absolutely wanted to hide and keep under wraps, because how could he be this brilliant
author of everything to do with the mind and the spirit, and yet be a lunatic?
So they hide this very much, but I was so conflicted, I'll tell you why, and I'll send
you a picture. He wrote a ten volume science fiction series called Mission Earth. During this
time period, he wrote a kind of thriller of a thriller called Mission Earth, ten huge volumes,
and the cult have kind of pulled it because there are sexual sequences in there that are
absolutely beyond pornograph, I mean just porn, hardcore porn, and it's embarrassing to think that
because if his identity is a spiritual hero and a brilliant spiritual guru, you don't write
science fiction porn, but the conflict in my mind is how could he have had that much dementia
and write, I mean the books, you know, I bought the leather bound set, I was seeing that the books
are riveting, but the story goes on for ten volumes, and that's not written by anyone with
Alzheimer's or dementia, no, no, no, boy, you read, and now and again, so anyway, even though they
pumped Hubbard's science fiction, I think the church hierarchy saw, this is an Achilles heel,
the critics could have a field day with Hubbard's writing of porn, so there's another
identity there, a writer that can put in porn sequences who's the guru of a multi-million
dollar. Something comes to mind, and I don't know why I read this a while back, but I heard,
I don't know how true this is, that Hubbard was friends with Alistair Crowley. Yes. Okay, Alistair
Crowley wrote a book, I can't remember, Be True to Thine Self, or Some Law, something, it was the
law was, do what, do what they will, in fact, do whatever you want, do what they will, shall be
the whole of the law. Right, so imagine Hubbard, in his latter years, is influenced by Crowley,
and this might make sense of his Luciferian and Antichrist statements, because Crowley
was into black magic and trying to tap into the dark, sinister side of things, probably pro-Satanic,
and things like that, so if he isn't that shit crazy at this point in his life, in the literal
diagnosis sense, but he's crazy in his ideology because his science fiction, his influence from
these Satanic, Masonic-ish, these really ritualistic Satanic people who are like Crowley, then maybe
he's being impacted by their ideology and sees himself as this God on earth, to a point where
he's saying, no, I'm God, Jesus is not, he's a boy lover, and that could be, he's coming out
swinging, his narcissistic complex is so, I don't give a crap what you think, that I want you to
know my OT-8s, that I'm God, and I am the light-bringer, and I am the one, that could be what he's
saying, instead of him being crazy like we would think, like he's just being dementia,
this guy might have been so prideful and so full of himself, that he believes that he is God,
and that he is the Antichrist, I am against that, that guy's a boy lover, he's nothing,
that's BS, look at me, and that's what I could imagine him being like.
You know, well-spoken, bang, bang, bang, right on the nose, well-spoken. I, right at the end on the
last two days of his life on earth, he talked to his trusted, oh, I already told you this, Sarge,
he said, I failed, do you remember that? Now this is Hubbard said I failed? Hubbard said,
Hubbard had a tear come down his face, and he said, I failed, and people have
amused over that, over, what did he mean? Did he mean he failed because he knew he,
a psychotic called David Miscavige had taken power, and he screwed it up by,
like, everything was now in place for the new rate, the coup, the regime to take over, and
was that the failure, or was it the failure that he didn't really make anyone, oh, God,
did he realize the technology may have had a little this and that, but far from
the bragging expectations that there were, what did he mean? I failed, but this was what he said,
I failed, so a very depressed, sad, crushed Hubbard, those, or as the last words he even said,
I failed, and this is all recorded not only on video, but it's the finale chapter of the book
called Going Clear by Larry Wright, and it won all kinds of prizes, then they made a movie,
HBO did a documentary film on it, and again, it's the last, after they take you through this
entire journey and all the expectations and all the, and then at the end,
the founder of all this is admitting that he's a failure.
You can debate it till the cows come home, just from what I've told you, what do you think he
meant? Oh, I think he meant what he said, and whatever that might have meant in his mind,
I can't answer that question, but when you're at the end of your life, I can only imagine
if you have that moment on a deathbed, it's like death isn't shockingly coming, you know you're
dying, and he knew he was dying, he was able to think, and I think he thought about it all and
realized he failed, whatever that is in his mind, we can all try to decipher, but I'll say something
that is interesting since he brought up Jesus, just some, there's some scholars out there who
take the words more literally, okay, and they think in the earliest gospel we have, Jesus is
now captured, and he's taken onto the cross, and here he is staked to the wood, above him it says
Henry, king of the Jews, okay, there are some scholars who think Jesus really was trying to
become a king, now this isn't what you'd read, these are like reading between the lines, what a
lot of expert historians would do would try to see what was Jesus really like, so they don't trust
the words of the books of the gospels, right, they try to see what was it, what really happened to
Jesus, and if the pronouncement of Jesus on that cross saying, my God, my God, why have you forsaken
me, okay, that is in a way saying, why have you failed me, okay, so I am being poetic when I say
this, but the difference is this, according to the Christian narrative, he rose again,
it didn't fail, okay, according to their beliefs, now it's not mine, but this is theirs, right,
but in Hubbard's, if you take that poetically and apply it to him, he failed, and that's it,
the legacy is carried by this narcissistic asshole named David Miscavige, but as much as he says,
oh he left his body and he went to another like whatever, they believe that, so in a way there's
a carryover, they still believe Hubbard is alive, but they think he's alive in a whole
another thing, it's another kind of mythology, if you will, the difference is there's no like
miraculous claims that I'm aware of, where after he's dead, he actually appears and he presents
himself, not that I'm aware of, is there anything like that, because then it would be really odd,
it'd make me think they really borrowed from Christianity and got these ideas, is there a
teaching out there of that? No, what you said was great, that that was that was very, very good,
that was good Derek, no, there have been some shaltons that have arisen in the last 10, 20
years, maybe half a dozen claiming to be Elrond Hubbard reincarnated, it's not even worthy of,
not even worthy of, they were just deluded and one of them was a criminal in and out of jail
constantly, just hogwash, no, you know, when you when you die and you're in the sea organization,
an issue comes out, I'll send you a copy and it says you have permission
to leave for 21 years before you report back, because you've signed for a million years,
so they allow you a 21 year leave of absence, but Hubbard's been gone 35 years, he's not back,
so why are people commanding you to return to 2040? That's, look, you got him on that one,
hey Hubbard, where are you? Okay, where are you? So technically you got 21 years, he hasn't shown
back up and said it's me, right, and the church has not accepted that, so they kind of shot
themselves in the foot with that 21 year thing, it just doesn't make any sense, because even he
is still obligated under that rule of being a sealer. Exactly, and this was his, his creation,
his creation. Yeah, I mean, I'm literally trying to put my mind, see, this is the tough thing and
I'm sure my audience will get where I'm going, this is kind of complex, I love what we're doing here,
I'm trying to put my mind into the mind of, imagine if this was, like, if I believed this,
how would I reconcile that Hubbard has not shown back up and he only had 21 years to do so,
he should be here now, putting a boot of miscavige and saying I'm back, or, or whatever,
or maybe miscavige should say here he is, it's been 21 years, but because I think cognitive
dissonance and maybe they haven't really thought that through, that's a big, big problem that you
bring up. You know, if he really loved this creation of his cosign, he created it out of nothing,
you would think that he would have enough affection for it or enough
wanting its persistence, wanting to salvage it from the PR, free fall, it's just in an absolute,
gravity is sucking it downward on steroids. And the last thing I want to say, we decided to keep
these nice and tight because, you know, we've got to do more shows. The Vatican, I've told you this
before, the Vatican have pronounced this a demonic cult. Now, one of their reasons is the wholesale
abortion, the coerced and forced baby slaughter, enforcing mothers to kill fetuses for decades.
And that, and by the way, the Vatican records shows like this for its archives, it's holding.
I want the Vatican or any representative who is listening in to know that Howard did
actually call Jesus a lover of young boys. This may be a little bit of a button given the
behavior of some priests. But worse than that, he identified as Lucifer. So the Vatican wasn't
that far off pronouncing it. I think, oh, another reason, a demonic cult is there's endless
exorcism going on, not a formal Vatican approved exorcism. Right. For years,
fighting attached, but isn't that... So, okay, yeah, there's aliens, they're trying to exercise
by people who are possessed by aliens, but they have less aliens. So they have the capability
of somehow helping remove these statements. I'm calling them aliens to be funny. Look,
everybody who's watched today hit that like, right? Obviously, follow what we do, help support
what we do, but also give a round of applause to Karen for such great content and Tony Ortega
for such hard work that he puts into this blog. Everybody go become a supporter of what he's doing,
especially if you're interested in this stuff. There is endless, and I mean this, endless amount of
wild, real conspiracy. All right. So if you're into like wild conspiracy ideas, they're legit ones,
okay, that are actually... It's like, I get kind of a bad taste in my mouth about conspiracy theories,
personally. But when you get to Scientology and you find out, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Hold on,
you mean to tell me the FBI really rated them over this whole tax thing and they found documentation
where they had like, oh, that's facts? That's real? Oh my gosh, they make conspiracies true and not
just conspiracies for conspiracy's sake. So be sure to go check out Tony Ortega's blog here and
also her YouTube channel, wonderful work that she's doing there and over here at MythVision,
constantly educating people on this whole cult that her whole family really, you know,
they ruined her son's life and have been a huge negative impact. She's trying to reverse what
she's been put into and help more people from ever going back into this. So if you're a person,
I'll say this, as a person who is a skeptic, if you're a Christian and you have ever considered
or you're sitting on the fence, turn around, trust me, don't ever join this cult, don't ever do it.
I'd much rather you stay where you're at than ever join something like this. So Karen, anything
else you'd like to say before we go? Please save yourself a million dollars only to find out
that Howard said he was the Antichrist. Oh, everyone. Thanks, Dennis. Thank you. We have to get this out.
Hope the Vatican will record it. Give us among the cardinals. There you have it. Howard said it.
Documented. Bye, bye, everyone. Bye. And don't forget, we are MythVision.
