Dr. Price, we were just having a conversation I had to turn the camera on, and the conversation
I get all the time asked of me, Derek, what do you believe?
You know, what do you think about Jesus?
Do you think he existed?
If he didn't, as a mythicist viewpoint, what's the best one?
And I'm not sure they're going to like my answer, you know?
Honestly.
Honestly, I don't know.
That's my answer.
I honestly don't know.
I am still very ignorant, and I don't mean that in derogatory sense.
I have so much to learn.
At the end of the day, when I get done researching, who knows, I might be miles apart from you
in terms of what I think.
Who knows?
I might be right where you're at.
I'm very skeptical to take the church's word, the early church fathers, I'm very skeptical
to take the words in our New Testament as basis of reality, finding things I think are
convincing narratives between the Homeric epics, the Iliad, the Odyssey, and now reading
Dennis MacDonald's book, which I know is fringe in terms of mainstream scholarship,
but I am blown away at the Dionysus connections.
At every turn, the Johannine tradition, he shows there's three layers to the John, to
the John Gospel.
And he says, at the earliest, most primitive layer, they're using Dionysus and the Euripides
Bacchai and making Jesus better than him at every turn.
I love that.
He didn't need to be really, I don't need to believe him.
It's like watching a cartoon, it's like watching Superman defeat the enemy.
And from the perception of the Superman comics, Superman's the good guy and the other guys
are bad, well who knows, what if there was another comic that showed they were the good
guys and Superman was the bad enemy.
Almost like they did with this recent Karate Kid movie.
If you watch the original one, it looks like the new kid, and I can't remember his name,
the new kid who doesn't know Karate well and he's coming up against this other guy to Dojo
and there's the girlfriend and all that, looks like he's the good guy.
Well someone painted a different picture of that once and made the guy who looks bad and
the original actually come out to be the good guy who's been defending his ground and defending
his sensei.
And the other guy who's new on the block comes and takes his girl away from him and
made it look like that guy was bad.
So how you look at things can change.
Well this is watching something about the terrific movie Batman vs Superman and how
it's, this kind of goes into the theological and philosophical points that the movies trying
to make with postmodernism and theodicy, it's really fascinating and it shows how Batman
believed that Superman was the villain not the hero and what it is that turns his view
around and so on.
So yeah, that's a great example.
I love it and so I look at this and I see a character, a created character.
If there was a guy at the base who knows, you know, I'm not closed off, I mean that.
The same way I'm not closed off to my Israel only friends, if they can present a hypothesis
in a certain area, I'll agree if that area seems to be portraying what they're saying.
I'm open to the dynamics of the New Testament being very different, meaning different authors
might have different intents, different books might be portraying a particular doctrine
that one might not be.
Anyway, I said all that to say they asked me that and I don't know.
And so I said I have a sixth sense, like a little gut feeling that if there was a guy
at the bases, I don't think the explanations in the gospels adequately portray why a man
is being crucified on the cross.
You know, this is a device, if there was a guy crucified on a cross, a device by the
Romans you didn't do for stealing an apple, you didn't do for being disrespectful here
and there.
You were probably an insurrectionist, you were probably a Taliban of the ancient world
to the Romans' eyes, of course a hero to the zealots, to the we need to fight for freedom,
that kind of movement in Israel.
And if he was anybody, I have a hunch he could have been that.
But here's the problem when I start to make those assumptions and why I'm hesitant and
I request anyone watching this to also dwell with me in skepticism.
Just give it a little chance to just not have an opinion for a moment.
When I asked Lane Einhorn, for example, about her Egyptian Jesus, it made perfect sense.
And then I asked her about Jesus being in an eyes and why is Jesus using Jesus being
in an eyes as a reference?
Well they just borrowed that, but couldn't they have borrowed the other Egyptian narrative
as well?
I mean, they ripped off showing Jesus is better than Dionysus, Jesus is better than Odysseus
and the gods in the Homeric epics, Jesus turns out to be better than everyone.
And they use these other characters in history to create a fiction.
Does mythicism get, I guess, can it be more complex than just the Doherty concepts that
we hear, like the Doherty thesis that we hear of an angelic figure?
The reason why it sounds like there's historicity somewhat there, someone's rooting this, like
you say, verisimilitude in a context, historically, while simultaneously competing with other
gods, showing that this one's the one and this is the divine fulfillment of not only
the Jewish messiah and predominantly that, but also showing that he's the better version
of all these other messiahs, like all these other figures, so it's syncretism as well.
Anyway, I'm rambling.
Well yeah, I have this theory that when in Mark 13 you have Jesus worn as if beforehand
to believe it when people come up with these prophets and messiahs and so on, let's go
out to the wilderness and so on, wait for the end, you just don't buy it because you'll
know when the Son of Man comes, it will be from one end of the one horizon to another
and so forth.
I think typically in these pseudo prophecies, prophecies after the fact, they warn you against
doing or thinking what people are known to have done and thought and so in this case,
I think what that denotes is that there were Christians who did think when they heard about
people like Theodos in the Egyptian and all that, they said, Jesus, this has got to be
it, this has got to be our Lord returned and then it turned out it wasn't and that's why
to stave off any further debacles like that, you had them say, no, no, no, it's going to
be really spectacular, technicolor and all that, that's why it was warned, let's not
go through that again, but it also makes me think that is how you got all these similarities
between Jesus, Simon Barghiora, Cleomenes, Theodos, the Egyptian, etc., that some of
these guys were thought by Christians to be Jesus returned and even once it fell through,
they had added elements from those guys in their careers to the Jesus story, which is
just what happened with the Antichrist idea, they thought, well, come on now, Antiochus,
Epiphanes, he's got to be the Antichrist, but luckily it turned out he wasn't, but elements
of that remained as part of the Antichrist idea and so when Caligula said he was going
to have a statue of himself installed in the temple, they added that and so on and so I
think the idea of Jesus' second coming generated a whole lot of these things and eventually
just in the same way that the delay of the Parusia caused people to view the first coming
as already messianic, in the same way they began to think of these things now associated
with the Parusia or second coming became part of the first one too, so I mean who knows,
right, but you can see that kind of thing happening and to me, like that's the explanation
I favor of what to do with the data that Lena points out, she could be right and I could
be wrong, but it's just theories, competing theories, which is a good thing.
I appreciate them, it'll shine a new light on things we don't really look at, but overall
I do see a created character, so to speak here, you said it once on record and people
asked you about Jesus, what can we know or something and you said, well at this point
even if there was a Jesus, there isn't one anymore and can you explain why, if there
was a Jesus, we can't know of him anymore, can you explain that, but like if you sat
next to Dr. Ehrman and you were trying to explain to him, which I have good friends
who are even Christians that are scholarly and that are saying he is conservative, let
me tell you, when he stands on something, it's like he's stuck in the 80s and I'm like
yeah, like you know, old school thinking, I said he's probably stuck where he likes
his music, that's probably why, you know, joking, but if you were to explain to him
and he's really listening, not here to answer you, just to hear what you have to say, pretend
I'm Dr. Ehrman and I want to hear why you think Jesus doesn't exist anymore, though
he supposedly did.
Well, there's no, even if there was a historical Jesus, it's kind of a moot point since we
can't really know anything about him, that for one thing, somebody in the store, he's
really all of them, are very plausibly explained as Thomas L. Brody and others do as rewrites
of Old Testament stories.
Now, that could be that people decided to clothe the historical Jesus in these stories
to make them look like the fulfillment of the whole biblical tradition, or it might
be that there was no Jesus and after a while, people figured well, Jesus and the Messiah
have come by now, so maybe, I heard Sealds and Crofts, the Baha'is on an old Mike Douglas
show in the 60s, first time I ever heard of the Baha'i Faith and they said, well, everybody's
looking for Jesus to come back, what they don't realize is that he already did.
He was Baha'u'llah, the founder of the Baha'i Faith and I thought, wow, isn't that interesting?
Well, suppose they figured he must have come back, but we didn't notice, had we been worthy
of him, he'd have thrown off the obscurity and led us to victory, but we fumbled the
ball and so how did they know what he had done?
Well, by looking at scripture, the same way the Dense Scrolls Sectarians did, in finding
these hidden messages and cobbled together the earthly career, it's what he must have
done, so they weren't lying or wittingly creating a stitched together composite, like a Frankenstein
for prophecy, but that there wasn't Jesus, but you can't really know which is which,
but it's a moot point, similarly the parallels of the dying and rising gods, why think that
this one was historical when all the others weren't, though they're clothed in history
too, they're mythic versions of all these guys, Osiris, Dionysus, etc., but they're
mythic and even the ancients, some of them, like Carrier points out, thought that the
real truth was what was happening invisibly in the heavenly spheres, but even if you
shelve all of that stuff, if you just take the form critical approach of Boltman, Debalius
and others, you wind up saying that, well what they try to do is to use the criterion
of dissimilarity, if there's something that survived in the gospel tradition that didn't
serve the purposes of Christian preaching and evangelism and all of that, then you can
tell that because it seems contradictory in some way, then this has to be bedrock stuff,
even if there's not much to it, like Schmidow, a great New Testament scholar, sort of started
this going when he said, there's a lot of stuff that Jesus can't be shown to have said,
but here are a few where he must have said them because there's no other reason anybody
would preserve them. One was father, oh my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Another
one would be of that day and hour no one knows, not even the son, but the father and so forth.
Another is why do you call me good? Only God is good. And there's a few other ones like
that. He says, now there's no way Christians came up with this. Oh yeah, it's not that
tough to explain how every one of these things, like the, I don't know the time of the second
coming, well that seems to contradict what you just read in the passage. I can tell you
this, this generation won't pass away, the generation passed away. So trying to redeem
that, you added a disclaimer. Of course, I don't really know. And then my God, my God,
why have you forsaken me? Suppose Mark, the whole thing is the whole crucifixion account
is modeled on Psalm 22, a lament of a righteous sufferer. And it starts out with my God, my
God, why have you forsaken me? Why are you so far from helping me? And, but by the end
of it, as all these lament Psalms did, it expresses hope for deliverance, even at the
11th hour, which is what happens, of course, he's resurrected. So it's not too tough to
figure that one out and so on and so on. So the, but, but that was the idea. But I think
that doesn't work because the whole premise of form criticism is we wouldn't be reading
it if it hadn't served somebody's purpose. And so it must have. And now when we can figure
out how it might have. So it's no, no big surprise that, that something, or that Jesus
getting baptized by John at a baptism of repentance, no Christian could have invented that because
they all thought Jesus was sinless. Did they all think that? And Matthew apparently did.
So he changed it. But Mark says it without embarrassment. He didn't necessarily think
there was anything untoward about that. John takes him beyond. So in every case, you can come up with,
in fact, John Warwick Montgomery, a fundamentalist Lutheran, Lutheran apologist said that he
pointed this out about form criticism long before other people did. He put it in a negative form.
He said, look, everything Jesus said, rubbed somebody in the early church the wrong way.
Yeah. And just the reverse. What rubbed this one the wrong way didn't necessarily offend
that one. He's right. And, and so form criticism doesn't work either.
Ehrman said, oh, you've got this wrong. You don't use the criterion of dissimilarity or of
embarrassment or whatever. In order to show what Jesus didn't say, you use it to try to find what
he did. And I said, look, it's just the same thing. You have to, you're, you're peeling away
what he apparently did not say to get to what's left. And I'm saying nothing is left. And so
that by itself was a biggie for, for why you can't really know anything about Jesus. He might have
said a lot of it. But, or another problem is that a lot of it doesn't even fit with the way Jesus
is depicted in the gospels as an itinerant Jewish teacher. There are statements about persecution.
Who would have been persecuting Jesus and his followers at this early date taken up the cross,
right, and following him? That wouldn't make any sense unless you knew Jesus had been crucified.
And various things that, that just don't even fit the, the image of, of what Jesus was doing in the
gospels. And then who knows if that were true. So it seems to me that it's all so iffy and
unlikely that if there was a Jesus, there's no particular reason to think we know anything about
him. And, and if we don't, then why think there was to begin with? So there might have been one,
but for us, there is no historical Jesus.
