What does it all mean?
It's about onion.
We are MythVision.
Thanks for joining me again, your host Derek Lambert and co-host Dr. Luther G. Williams.
He's still editing.
Can you believe 10 minutes later, he's still editing in his basement trying to get this
book together, guys.
This is part two of a series that we just did with Robert W. Sullivan IV.
Welcome back.
Oh, hey.
Thanks, Derek.
Thanks for having me back on.
I always look forward to being on MythVision and looking forward to this evening's conversation.
Thanks for having me on.
No problem.
I enjoy you every time.
I can't get bored.
Now you've got me.
My interest has sparked because I'm a movie fan and you have four books currently writing
a fifth and I feel like right after that, there's going to end up a sixth because these
movies keep launching out stuff.
The Royal Arch of Enoch, and that is the impact of Masonic ritual philosophy and symbolism.
You have Cinema Symbolism, and that's your first one, a guide to esoteric imagery in
popular movies.
Cinema Symbolism II, and it's more esoteric imagery in popular movies, and then you have
The Witches of Highgate, book one, a pact with the devil, which he said is a fiction.
Now you're working on three, right?
You're working on a third, Cinema Symbolism?
Right.
I'm working on, actually Cinema Symbolism III is the book I'm currently writing right
now.
That book will probably be out, should be out January to March or 2020 is what I'm anticipating,
a release for that one.
I'm also outlining and have began or have begun writing two works of fiction and another
book called Masonry.
When I get done this new move, this next movie book, I'm going to do the works of fiction
because they're fun to write, and they don't require this hardcore heavy lifting research
that the other ones require, but Cinema Symbolism III will definitely be the next book.
That's guaranteed.
That book is probably, as I sit here talking to you tonight at the end of August of 2019.
I would say that book is easily probably 75 to 80% done.
Like I said, what is floated substantially is doing the David Lynch Twin Peaks material,
which is substantial to say the least, is inevitable that you are not going to be able
to see everything.
I've done my best at trying to boil it down.
Inevitably you really can't pin it all down because Lynch doesn't allow it.
He's just too mysterious.
The stuff is too immacurial almost, some of it is, but it's good stuff.
When I first watched the original Twin Peaks, I got to say, when I started doing this portion
of it, I wrote a criticism of it.
I wasn't a big fan of it.
I've subsequently developed a taste for it.
I do like it.
It was funny because I just, real quick, I started going back and editing some of the
Twin Peaks material, rereading it, and I wrote this really introductory scathing criticism
of it.
I really contemplated as to whether taking it out or re-editing.
I decided to leave it in because I did say I have come to like this stuff, but a lot
of the stuff is very, I mean, it's so bizarre that he did just a fives explanation.
Lynch just seems to want it that way, but anyway, Cinema Symbolism 3 will definitely
be the next book.
I've also, as I've been doing this, I've also been editing my other books, just making
some slight tweaks here and there.
Those edits won't be complete also for probably another six or seven months or so.
But no, that's what I've been doing.
It's been very busy, but it's coming along.
It's coming along very, very well.
I can report.
I enjoy that, and for our audience who's listening in, what he does, if you aren't aware of this
by now, which hopefully you are, you might be new to Myth Vision, and you might be new
to this whole genre, and you might go, whoa, this is interesting, explain what you do.
You're better for that than I am on what you're doing in your cinema books.
Right.
What it all started for me was with my first book was The Royal Arch of Enoch, which was
essentially the product of 20 years of writing and research, which was the book is the first
book to present this historical anomaly, essentially that this high degree Masonic ritual known
as The Royal Arch of Enoch was incorporating elements and components of the lost book of
Enoch, One Enoch, which shouldn't be happening because according to mainstream history, One
Enoch wasn't discovered and returned to Europe until about 1773.
And then even at that point in time, it wasn't translated into English until 1815.
Yet when this Masonic high degree ritual was being cultivated back in the 1740, 1750s,
1730s even at some points, it was incorporating components of One Enoch, which shouldn't be
happening.
And the book and the ritual is so critical because it's really the ritual that is being
used by the founding fathers to really develop the United States around.
So this was the underlying thesis of The Royal Arch of Enoch book.
And when I was ending the book, I wanted to talk about Masonic, Enochic, solar symbolism
and film.
So I took on movies such as like National Treasure, Being There, Excalibur, which involve a lot
of solar mysticism, Kin Arthur being an avatar for the sun.
This is again is, you know, echoing what we've talked about before with Jesus being
a solar avatar.
So is King Arthur, you know, Jesus has the 12 apostles, King Arthur has the 12 knights.
Same thing.
They set a circular table, circular zodiac, you know, side wheel.
So in any rate, this was The Royal Arch of Enoch book.
And when I got by that, there was this, I had began noticing this mystical, these other
mystical elements in these other movies, movies like The Matrix and Star Wars that were necessarily
Masonic per se, although I guess you could say that they, you know, definitely incorporate
some Masonic mythology, but more more of your classical mythology.
And I was just fascinated by all this.
So I just started writing a book analyzing movies from a mythological cult standpoint
and that became the first movie book, Cinema Symbolism.
And again, when I got on that, I wanted to write even, you know, there were other movies
I wanted to take on, but the book would have gone on forever.
So that was Cinema Symbolism 2.
And of course, Cinema Symbolism 3 is the movies that I couldn't put in Cinema Symbolism 2.
So that's really the history of the movie books.
And then I try to, you know, just to point out in my research, when I analyze these movies,
I try to do it as objectively as possible.
I mean, I just present the facts as I find them.
I don't put any sort of dark conspiracy spin on it unless I see evidence of it.
I try to present it as a lawyer.
I try to do this completely objectively.
I present the material as to you, the reader, the jury.
I leave it to you to decide if you think this is all illuminati mind control or if this
is just rebranding mythology.
That's for you to the reader to decide.
I just present the material.
So the books I try to keep as objective as possible, now if I see dark things going on
or things that make sense or things that are disturbing, I tell you about them.
But those are essentially the crux of the movie books.
Part one is out, part two is out, and part three is being written as we speak with a
due date, like I said, probably in January and March of 2020.
I always like to go through those things prior to getting into the content because you never
know who's popping in and hearing this.
So we just did a show.
We were talking about astrothiology.
We were talking about more than astrothiology.
We dealt in a lot of different things with astrology and Gnosticism became a big proponent
of that discussion.
So a lot of these movies are actually incorporating Gnosticism into these movies.
If you don't mind, take us on a journey.
I'm going to take my metaphorical popcorn and, well, I have a mountain dew here.
So I'll sip on that.
Just take us on a journey into some of these things because I love hearing how you come
up with this.
Right.
Gnosticism is a Christian heresy and it's very popular in Hollywood because the Christ
figure presented in the Gnostic cosmology is a rebel figure, not sent to mankind to
redeem sin, but to awaken mankind to a higher plane of consciousness.
This is essentially the core of the Valentinian Gnostic fable.
Valentinius was a Gnostic philosopher theologian.
He's one of the big three.
So let's start with that.
So when you're dealing with Gnostic cinema, you have three Gnostic fountain heads that
you're kind of are dealing with that overlap.
The first one, I would say the first one is Manny.
He was a Gnostic philosopher theologian and his cosmology is the simplest of them all.
And because it's the simplest, it's probably the least interesting.
He just said the universe is consisting of a giant struggle between light and dark.
That's ignorance versus wisdom, good versus evil.
So I mean, this is pretty easy to see.
I mean, this is Luke Skywalker versus Darth Vader, Harry Potter versus the Death Eaters.
Good versus evil, light versus dark.
He's pretty easy.
Valentinus is the one that everybody knows and probably may not know what they're looking
at.
So the movie or Truman Show or Dark City is the Valentinian strain of cosmology, where
you have the Christ illuminator figure Neo sent into Wake, mankind up from his stasis
to awaken them into the notion that the reality that they're living in is a falsehood.
And to bring them to Gnosis or enlightenment, Gnosis is a Greek word meaning to know.
So that's what the word Gnosis means.
So this is, of course, the Matrix film, where Neil Anderson is trying to awaken humankind
of their stasis being enslaved by the machines in Gnostic cosmology, the material world,
the heilic world is controlled by a lesser God known as the Demiurge.
This is, of course, turns up as the architect in the second Matrix movie.
And of course, as any Gnostic will tell you, the Demiurge has a host of agents who work
at his or her behalf to keep mankind immured in the material world.
And these are called Archons.
And of course, these are the agents of something like the Matrix.
These would be the strangers of Dark City.
Exactly.
You know, the Demiurge in the Truman Show would be Christoph, Ed Harris, the fashioner
of the false reality.
So these are very Valentinian Gnostic themes.
One of the earmarks of the Gnostic, of the Valentinian Gnostic strain is rebellion, you
know, the crisis coming into awaken you from your stasis.
So it's a rebellion against consumerism, materialism.
Of course, we see this in other movies, such as They Live, which has a Gnostic bent to
it, or a Fight Club, you know, God hates you, rebel against, you know, the consumerism
of the Demiurge.
What's the other one?
Let's track for a moment.
Oh, and then got those three.
And then, you know, we can leave it on that.
And then the third strain was, is a Gnostic philosopher known as Basilittis.
He is very, you don't see his theology turn up too much.
There's one movie that kind of embodies his theology pretty well.
That's a movie by David Cronenberg called Existence.
And what Basilittis, Basilittis is a negation of Valentinus.
What Valentinus essentially said was essentially that you have to, in order to achieve the
Godhead, in order to achieve this higher selfhood, you have to become wise.
You have to become enlightened.
This is what the word, like I said, Gnostic means to know.
You have to become, you know, conscious.
And Basilittis said, wait a minute, this doesn't really make sense.
He said, you know, you know, the one thing that Valentinus preached, and this is sort
of part of Gnosticism proper, is that there's this spiritual Godhead out there known as the
Monad.
And this spiritual Godhead is unknowable.
It's unfathomable.
It's beyond comprehension.
It's beyond name.
And Valentinus' cosmology says, well, to return to this, this Godhead, you have to become
wise.
You have to become enlightened.
You have to reject materialism.
And Basilittis was a Christian mystic.
He's a Gnostic philosopher.
He's part of the big three.
And he negates Valentinus.
He says, what you're saying doesn't make sense.
He says, if the Monad is unknowable, how is knowing going to make you closer to it?
So what Basilittis says is, the only way to know the Godhead is to become intentionally
stupid, is to will yourself to nothingness and become nothing.
And that is how you achieve the Godhead.
Does this appear in any movies?
The closest one I can come up with is this movie called Existence by Cronenberg, where
the two characters by the end of the movie are in limbo.
They don't know who they are or where they are anymore.
And the other movie that flirts with this is the movie Lost Highway, where, by David
Lynch, where the character Fred Madison, played by Bill Pullman, wills himself into limbo,
negates his selfish desires so much so that he becomes another person named Pete Dayton,
who is this laid back, relaxed character in tune with the Godhead.
So this is what Basilittis talks.
He's more complicated.
He's more harder to see.
So this is, you know, your Gnostic theology in film, as it were.
That's a great question.
This is important because I'll lose track.
You really cover some ground.
This Basilittis, is this somewhat coming out of, this sounds very eastern.
This sounds very almost like, it's this idea of the desire to not desire anymore.
It's almost this escaping all Zen type of dialogue.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
I mean, this is, this is akin to Zen Buddhism, essentially.
I mean, it's will limbo.
I mean, if you read, Basilittis said essentially, what Valentinus said was, if you want to escape
the demiurge, become enlightened, become wise, Basilittis says, in order to escape the demiurge,
you can't open your eyes.
If you see something, you're an agent of the demiurge.
If you taste something, you're an agent, an agent of the demiurge.
If you speak, if you think you become an agent of the demiurge, the only way to escape the
demiurge is to will yourself to nothingness.
Basically sitting in an empty room with your eyes closed, doing nothing is the way to become
a God.
Pretty much opposites.
Yeah.
They negate each other.
So for example, I mean, again, another one of this where this kind of creeps into cinema
is take the movie, They Live, okay, where you have the Illuminati-like puppet masters,
the Archons, the space aliens who want to keep the humankind and mirrored in materialism,
consumerism.
Remember, you know, the subliminals, right, obey, have sex, marry, reproduce, you know,
the money, it says God on it.
Well, who's the guy who's going to undo all this, right?
It's the Rowdy Rowdy Piper character.
I mean, what's his name?
It's Nada.
What's Nada mean in Spanish?
Nothing.
It's a disciple of Basilitas.
It's become nothing, defeat the demiurge, and then you'll achieve gnosis essentially.
Do you follow certain producers expecting this?
It's almost like once you see a trail, you're like, okay, I'm going to follow.
I know he's going to, okay.
How often does something new pop up though?
Something where you're like, oh, I never, this popped on the radar.
Great question.
Absolutely fantastic question.
Yeah, there are some directors who are masters at this stuff, Stanley Kubrick, expert, Darren
Aronofsky, expert, Alfred Hitchcock, fantastic, Guillermo de Toro, very, very well done.
And yeah, when you know that they're using this stuff, you look for it in other movies.
The one that's really is a conundrum of all the directors, I mean, I just don't know how
he does it.
The one that where it's almost like a supernatural element is Kubrick.
Because Kubrick has, it's one thing where a director makes a movie and then makes a
string of movies and then at the end, like Eyes Wide Shut, which references a lot of
the earlier movies.
That's easy to do.
I mean, it's easy to reference your earlier works, but Kubrick anticipates his works.
If you ever watch a movie, I think it was one of his earlier movies, I mean, he made a string
of them, but I came in the early 60s called Lolita.
This is a movie that I'm going to do in the cinema symbolism three.
It is astonishing how many movies he anticipates in that movie that he would go on to make.
And I can't account for it.
If you watch that movie, there are references to Full Metal Jacket, to The Shining, Barry
Linden, 2001, Strangelove.
This was years before he made them, yet somehow or another, he seems to have anticipated his
own movies.
I can't figure it out.
It's easy to, it's easy in Full Metal Jacket.
When you watch Full Metal, excuse me, when you watch Eyes Wide Shut, which is his last
movie, it's easy to see when Nicole Kidman and the daughter are sitting around eating
breakfast and it looks like the scene from The Shining, where Shelley DeVall and Danny
are eating breakfast.
Tom Cruise, when he's on the street, walks by the street address 237, okay, an obvious
reference to The Shining, you know, I get it.
The videotape of Full Metal Jacket is sitting there on the bedside.
Yeah, I mean, okay, I get it.
But when you're dealing with Lolita, he foreshadows his other movies and you watch, I'm like,
you know, how's he doing that?
I mean, there's a scene, there's a fantastic scene in Lolita where Shelley Winters is speaking
to James Madison, who's Humbert, and they're talking about her husband, who I believe killed
her first husband, who I think maybe killed himself, and she pulls out his gun and she
holds it.
She says, oh, this is a sacred talisman.
This is a sacred relic.
This is a holy gun.
And you're watching the scene and the first thing that comes to your mind is, oh, this
is the rifleman's creed from Full Metal Jacket, you know, however many 20-some years earlier.
It's just uncanny.
When you watch Kubrick, how he not only anticipates his movie, I mean, it's one thing when you
reference him, but he seems to anticipate them.
Don't know how he did it.
It's a mystery to me.
It's interesting because that kind of follows, in my opinion, to people like Joseph Campbell.
I know it's outside of the realm, but the hero archetype that he always talks about,
it's almost like he created his own myth and then he anticipates his own myth and you
look for those cycles because you're such a fan of his work, you're going to see the
myth replay itself.
So I find that fascinating, fascinating.
Well, the Campbell Mono myth is very important within these, you know, what Campbell talked
about was he, it's a studying comparative mythology and he said these myth myth mythologies
have these similar components that just repeat or duplicate and he points it on his book
The Bunks of Hero with a Thousand Faces.
If you're a fan of Star Wars, you got to read it because everything in Star Wars comes out
of this book.
But you'll see it in movies like The Matrix, The Harry Potter movies, The Chronicle and
Narnia.
I mean, these all, even The Matrix, they all incorporate these components of the monomyth.
But you know, it's one thing to use Campbell, but like I said, what's different with Kubrick
is I don't know how he for saw his own movies, unless he had some sort of sixth sense or
something.
That's what's weird to me.
But yeah, just to round off your question, yeah, there are some directors who are way
more sophisticated than others.
I mean, when you're watching a movie like by David Lynch or something, yeah, keep your
eyes open because there's definitely going to be hidden stuff going on in there.
No question about it.
Powerful, powerful.
Okay, okay.
Let's talk.
You've always talked about The Matrix.
You've talked about all these movies.
Can you give us a sneak peek into your third book, something you don't mind disclosing going
into a little bit of detail of what you, is there something you can release now?
Yeah, of course, I'm just trying to come up with a real headbanger.
Okay, okay.
Let me just think for a minute.
Let me just think.
In Cinema Simulism 3, I'm just trying to think of some of the movies.
That's in Cinema Simulism 2.
I mean, I'm doing a whole slate of movies.
I mean, there's some stuff.
I'm trying to think of some really, I'm some really like holy cow stuff.
I mean, I could give you some of the movies that I'm analyzing, but I'm trying to think
of a good example.
I mean, we're going to do like a lot, we're revisiting a lot of the David Lynch material
that I did into Cinema Simulism 2.
I'm going to do Lost Highway.
I did Lost Highway.
I'm going to do Wild at Heart, Eraserhead, and the Twin Peaks mythology, all the Twin
Peaks material.
We're going to do another section on the horror movies.
We're doing the Suspiria, the latest Suspiria movie.
I did the first one, and that's where we're doing the newest Suspiria movie.
We're going to do the latest Halloween movie.
That's a study and repetition.
That's a very interesting one.
There's a lot going on in that.
I'm just trying to think we got a whole thing on Gnostic Hollywood.
You know, like you said, The Matrix, that's the one that gets all the hype.
We're going to delve into some of the other Gnostic films, such as like Fritz Lang's Metropolis,
Dark City, Vanilla Sky with Tom Cruise.
These are all decidedly Gnostic films.
What's some of the other ones?
So those are some of the movies.
I'm just trying to think of some examples.
Well, also, I'll throw you a curveball to take you off of that because you have a lot
in here.
What are your thoughts about then there's going to be another Matrix coming out?
Yeah, I saw that.
What do you think of that?
Well, I mean, you know, I wouldn't reserve judgment until I see it, of course.
I mean, I thought that they wrapped up the trilogy pretty well.
I mean, you know, if you watch the third one, they got Neo as the rising sun, your Christ
figure.
Enough said.
Yeah, I mean, I don't know where they're going to take it.
You know, I mean, I thought they did the move.
The first movie gets all the hype.
I thought the second and third movies were admirable, though.
You know, they kind of took it in a direction that you could really only take it in.
So I, you know, I did like the sequels, you know, I'm going to reserve judgment until
I see the fourth one.
I won't be able to get it done in cinema symbols in three, of course, you know, this,
you know, they'll have this done in six months.
That movie's probably still a year away or so.
Yeah.
But I'll watch it, you know, and knowing the watch house keys.
I mean, there are no on the matrix is overloaded with stuff.
I mean, that's again, you know, kind of your, you know, your one of your main
Gnostic films of all of them is the is the matrix.
So I'm sure part four will have Gnostic themes in it as well.
Only time will tell, though.
That is that is a fact.
I already know something's going to happen, especially with I wonder if they're going
to use Keanu Reeves and now let me ask this.
You follow producers, do a lot of your actors like Keanu Reeves, are there actors
that you look for these secrets that are connected to certain movies?
That's a good question.
It's yes and no.
What I wanted to say, the answer to your question is twofold.
It's does, you know, do they use the same actor and actor, actor over and over again?
No, not really, but what they do do, and this is something that I kind of have discovered
what these directors and producers will do.
That's very a droid and very occult is what they is.
What they like to do is they will cast an actor in a parole to bring into that role
and underline cultural valence to invest the new movie with some sort of underpinning
from an earlier movie.
So it's almost like a cult casting.
They're using this actor to convey subconsciously some sort of a cult imprint
to put upon you from an earlier movie.
This is a great talking point.
I don't know if anyone else who talks about this, to my knowledge,
I don't want to pat myself on the back.
I think I'm one of the first people who have discovered this.
One of the movies that really took me off this was the sequel to The Matrix,
but I'll give you a prime example about this.
And if I discuss this on your show before you can interrupt me was the
the Star Wars movie The Force Awakens.
So this would have been episode seven was the casting of Max Vonsito.
That's the very beginning of that movie.
He's only in it for a bit part.
And I remember watching this.
It's stuck like a sprinter in my head.
I kept asking myself, why did they cast Max Vonsito, this well-renowned actor
in this bit part in the Star Wars movie where they could have cast anybody
for this part?
I mean, this guy is killed off in the first five minutes.
Why do this?
And it just I'm watching it and I'm watching it and I'm watching it.
And I kind of said time out here is this.
Is there something subconscious going on here?
Is there something that they're telling me that I'm not aware of subconsciously?
And Derek, it hit me like a bolt of lightning.
I thought, of course, where have I seen this before?
Where have I seen a Max Vonsito character open a movie in a desert
and confront the dark evil Lord?
I'm like, it's the exorcist.
The placement of Vonsito in that movie is designed intentionally
to consul to resurrect subconsciously,
not consciously, subconsciously, his performance in the exorcist.
Why? Because it is investing Kylo Ren and the first order
with the demonism and evil of Pizzuzu.
So by casting Vonsito, the filmmakers are performing sorcery
upon you, the viewer, by resurrecting this movie subconsciously
just by putting him in the movie.
But it doesn't end there.
I'm seeing the thing and I've seen I thought, OK, there's the exorcist.
But I've seen this somewhere else also, and it actually is another strike.
It also resurrects the movie Doon, where Vonsito plays a hermit
on a desert planet who confronts a dark evil Lord, the Baron Harkonnen,
and gets killed by simply casting Vonsito in that movie.
In that first five minute sequence, you have the first order as a demonic entity
and you have Kylo Ren as Baron Harkonnen, just by placing him there.
Now, if that's not sorcery, I don't know what is.
And these guys are masters at it.
If you don't think these guys know what you're they're doing, they do.
And these guys, that's one of the techniques.
You know, I get asked all the time, Derek, about symbolism in movies and this and that.
These guys paint with a palette, costuming, music, actors, dialogue.
All this stuff is this palette that they use to imprint this stuff
on your subconscious mind.
I mean, and the more droid the producer and director
the more they'll use it.
I mean, that's just one example.
I mean, another example is I mean, like costuming.
Watch when you're watching the movie Fatal Attraction next time with Glenn Close.
All her costumes, everyone is black, white or black and white.
Why? Because she's a split personality.
It's good versus evil.
She hates and loves herself.
The black and white outfits are good versus evil, negative.
The good girl versus the bad girl.
Every one of her costumes, black, white or black and white.
That's the kind of stuff these guys use to implant this occult agenda,
occult symbolism into your mind.
It that's that's powerful.
And if it works, you know, why if it's not broken, don't fix it.
So obviously, if they see something's working,
you know, in a practical sense, you're going to keep going.
But it's funny how they're using these esoteric principles.
These things taught from occult practices into the mainstream like that.
And you don't even know it.
It's don't even know it. No, they get it.
They got a lot of the stuff with the costuming comes from Alfred Hitchcock.
And what he liked to do was when he liked messing around with women
and he always he always liked the destruction of the sacred feminine.
So if you're watching Psycho, when Marion Crane is innocent at the beginning,
she's wearing the white lingerie.
After she steals the money, it's the black lingerie, because she's guilty now.
In Dal M for murder, the main female character, I forget her name, forget the actress.
She starts off wearing the somber, excuse me, the light colored clothing,
but actually becomes more entangled and darker.
She wears the black clothing comes out.
So yeah, the costuming is important.
Dialogue is important.
When you're watching The Shining the next time,
a lot of the characters repeat dialogue back to each other
and repeat dialogue later on in the movie because Kubrick is signifying.
The whole thing is repetition.
It's a reincarnation cycle going on.
So these guys are incredibly adroit with this.
They know what they're doing.
It's not a coincidence.
I've seen way too many examples of it.
And like I said, you know, it really is a form of modern day sorcery.
And like you said, you hit the nail in the head.
You're not even aware of it.
I love it, though.
I have to admit that I love it.
It's just because it bypasses everything.
My guard can be up.
I love those movies.
Those are the best movies you can get, in my opinion.
And you're watching the movie, you're trying to predict,
you know what's going to happen and boom, something else happens.
But it's not just that something else happens.
A real magic trick takes place, you know, and you're going,
what in the world, you know, I should have known.
But that's what just here.
I'll give you a good example.
This just happened in the David Lynch Twin Peaks.
And if you haven't seen it, I won't belabor the show.
I'm not going to bore you with it, but I'm just going to say this.
OK, no, Lynch Lynch is very much into the world of conspiracy.
I mean, you watch all this stuff.
He knows mysticism.
He knows the occult.
He knows Freemasonry.
He knows what he's talking about.
If you watch the movie, The Shining, and it's not something I necessarily
ascribed to, it's, you know, you probably know the conspiracy
where Kubrick's supposed to have alleged to a film, The Moon Landing.
As you know, this one, I've heard of it.
I've heard of it. Danny Torrance, Danny Torrance.
The little boy stands up with the Apollo 11 sweatshirt on or sweater.
And he goes through in 237.
It was 213 in the book, but Kubrick changed into 237
because the earth in the late 70s was 237,000 miles from the earth to moon.
So this is Kubrick's symbolic way of telling you I staged the moon landing footage.
Danny, where's the Apollo 11 sweater goes to 237 symbolic.
We goes to the moon. Believe it or not,
whether you believe the conspiracy is real or not is an important
lynch actually pays homage to the conspiracy in the last Twin Peaks.
On showtime, there's a scene set in a hallway in a hotel.
I'm not kidding you.
I take over.
You can attend me over with a feather when I saw this happen.
I thought you got to be kidding me.
I thought you've got to be kidding me.
This woman's walking in a hallway and she's in a hotel hallway.
It looks just like the overlook and she's carrying a little dog.
And the little dog starts like growling around the door
because there's a dead body in the room. It don't matter.
And she says to the dog, she says, Armstrong, Armstrong, stop growling.
She picks the dog up and goes to her room.
OK, and the room she goes to is it's I believe it's 812 or 218.
It's something like that.
And the first thing I thought of is Armstrong,
you know, just as Danny Torrance and Apollo 11 goes to the moon.
Now we've got Armstrong, the dog, Neil Armstrong going to 218,
which is 11, which is Apollo 11.
So we've got Neil Armstrong going to Apollo 11,
echoing Danny going to the moon in the.
And this is this is Lynch paying tribute to Kubrick.
You can't make it up.
Yeah, you can't make it up.
Get ready for the Flat Earthers, man.
Just kidding.
But seriously, like it's yeah, you can't make it up.
You can't make it up.
He's very you're right.
You're right. It's his craft.
I mean, he is this is his craft and take a look today.
If you watch the Twin Peaks.
Yeah, episodes, the two, the one that came out in 2017.
You're watching it and you've got the three barmaids.
I put this up on my Facebook page.
You got the three cocktail waitresses who are
sonamulists who walk around days, right?
It's the lullaby league.
They're asleep.
It's a reference to the Wizard of Oz.
That's Lynch's favorite movie.
This is why Candy, Mandy and Sandy are always out of it.
They're asleep.
It's Lynch paying tribute to the Wizard of Oz.
They're a actual lullaby league because they're
constantly snapping their fingers in front of them,
saying, what's wrong with you three?
Look at the costume of the three women
compared to the costuming of the three little dancing women.
Same thing.
Wow.
This is, and I've been like, I like watching shows,
you know, I get into it and I don't know what you call that.
They call it binge watching TV shows.
So is this a show, the Twin Peaks,
that I could get into, you think?
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, if you're going to get into Twin Peaks,
here's what I would recommend is watch it in order.
Don't watch the, you know, start with the shows from 1990.
You know, the show goes back 30 years almost.
The first two seasons aired in 1991.
Watch it in order.
Start with those.
Then, I mean, in order, then watch the Firewalk with Me movie.
That came out in 1992.
And then the updates or the return came out in 2017.
You can't watch part three without seeing the other ones.
It won't make any sense whatsoever.
But I mean, you know, here, I'll just end it on this.
If you think, you know, this is a stretch, it's not.
I have a book.
It's right here.
It's a book by Mark Frost,
who is one of the co-creators of Twin Peaks.
And it's a canonical text, okay?
I mean, and in this book, you know, he talks about,
he says, you know, in Twin Peaks,
the Black Lodge is the Illuminati.
The White Lodge is the Freemasons.
There's a green ring that appears
in the Firewalk with Me movie.
They give you the history of this green ring.
It was once worn by Mary Wether Lewis,
who was a Freemason and was killed for it.
It winds up being worn by Jack Parsons
as part of the OTO rituals, you know,
in the Babylon working.
And then it winds up in the hands of Richard Nixon.
So they give you this entire, I'll call it history.
So I mean, when you're seeing this stuff on screen,
you're thinking, oh, this looks like the Illuminati
or Freemasonry.
Yeah, that's what they're going for.
I mean, this is a canonical text.
This isn't some fan fiction.
This is a co-creator of the show saying,
this is representing the Illuminati.
This is representing, you know, Freemasonry.
This is a Jungian alchemy, you know,
or Jungian psychological alchemy.
They admit to this.
So, you know, this isn't like me making up something.
The creator of the show is saying,
yes, this is the Illuminati.
This is the Freemasons.
This is perfection of the soul.
This is what Jung called individuation.
You know, the ring, they mentioned Martin Jack Parsons,
Elvron Hubbard.
Yeah, you know, I mean, so these guys
know what the hell they're doing.
Makes me kind of want to get a little conspiratorial here
because, you know, it just makes me wonder
how they come to find all these things out and, you know.
Well, Lynch is a student of mysticism.
I mean, he's very much into, like, Buddhism,
Tibetan mysticism.
I mean, you'll see a lot of that turning up in the show.
I mean, the one character, the character of Cooper
played by Cal McLaughlin, I mean,
uses dream visions to solve crimes.
He says he's a disciple of, you know, the Dalai Lama.
I mean, he's an FBI agent.
I mean, they get into the government conspiracy
with Blue Book trying to reach UFOs.
I mean, Lynch is big time into this stuff.
I mean, so, you know, for him hinting at conspiracy
and alchemy and, you know, echoing Kubrick's conspiracy theory.
Yeah, I mean, you asked me before,
if I'm watching a director, and I expect you something,
yeah, if I'm watching Lynch,
you got to keep your eyes wide open for him
because he repeats stuff.
I mean, one thing that pervades Twin Peaks,
the original Twin Peaks is duality.
I mean, everything has a polar opposite.
When he gets into the second season of the show,
the series that aired on Showtime, he likes repetition.
He likes the bar from Kubrick, I'm not sure why,
but then he starts repeating everything.
The number seven repeats.
In the original Twin Peaks,
the entrance to the Black Lodge was located
at a place called Glastonbury Grove.
And of course, Cooper says,
oh, this is a reference to King Arthur.
You know, this is where the Holy Grail,
Glastonbury tour was allegedly kept.
He says this on screen.
And then you get into the 2017 series
where you have a character living on Lancelot Drive
near Merlin's Market.
I mean, repetition.
Exactly.
So these guys know what the hell they're doing.
That's amazing.
That's amazing.
I don't know how much further you can get into this
without just telling us what your book's gonna have in it.
I can't wait to get the book.
So how do they get the book?
Where do they need to go?
Right.
Well, right now I have four books published.
It's Royal Arch, Cinema Symbolism, CS2,
and A Pact of the Devil, which is fiction.
If you like fiction, if you like Gothic, erotic fiction,
check that one out.
If you want the books,
they're available in print edition or the e-book format.
Both editions, you know, no problem finding them.
They are sold online through all the big retailers,
Amazon, Barnes & Noble, Books of Million.
The easiest way to find them
and find me is just go to my website.
My website is my name.
My name is Robert W. Sullivan IV.
So my website is RobertWSullivanIV.com,
the letter I, the letter V for the fourth.com.
There's links about, you know, where to buy the books,
information about my upcoming appearances.
This interview will be posted there when it's out.
There's my biography.
There's links to my social media.
Follow me on Twitter, like my Facebook page.
You know, I update it constantly
about the appearances, shows I'm gonna be on.
And like I said, links to buy the book.
If you like to look better than the Kindle,
you can get it on Barnes & Noble.
I mean, get on Amazon.
If you like print more than e-book, that's no problem also.
www.RobertWSullivanIV.com, very easy to navigate.
And you have eyes to see and ears to hear these things.
So someone picking up this book, like myself,
is going to need somebody who's a debt to these things,
like you are catching these things.
And then I'll watch the movie again,
and it will come to life in a new manner, I suspect.
Thank you for joining us here at MythVision Podcast.
Do you have any closing statements you'd like to make?
No, thank you, Derek, just other than, you know,
thank you for having me on.
I, you know, I appreciate the invite.
I look forward to returning
when Cinema Symbolism 3 is out.
Again, I just really enjoyed my appearance here,
and thank you so much for having me on.
And, you know, you do tremendous work.
You have a tremendous podcast.
And I do appreciate the invite.
You know, anytime I'm invited, that's, you know,
I really appreciate that.
So, you know, you really know your stuff,
you're a gracious host.
And again, thank you for having me on.
I look forward very much to returning.
Thank you.
Guys, gals, go check them out.
Here's his website.
It's on your screen.
It's been on your screen this whole time.
MythVision Podcast with Derek Lambert.
Thank you.
