All right. All right. All right. All right. Welcome to myth vision. We figured it out
We had serious technical difficulties really software stuff as much as I do live streams
I'm also a dinosaur. So there's some things I could have helped dr. Dell be Martin. Welcome to myth vision
Hello
Thank you for joining me. I gotta give you an introduction here
You've never been on myth vision yet
But uh, dr. Martin, uh, is an american new testament scholar and historian of christianity
Martin joined the faculty of yell university in 1999 and retired as
The woosley am I pronouncing that properly woosley woosley professor of religious studies in 2018 before yell
He was a faculty member at roads college and duke university
Which was down the road from where I used to live
in north carolina
Martin has degrees from abalone christian university princeton theological seminary and yell
He was elected a fellow of the american academy of arts and sciences in 2009
Is there anything else you'd like to tell us about yourself as we enter in this discussion?
Uh, you might just mention that i'm happy retirement in gallistan. So i'm no longer anywhere near yell
Okay, you are retired and officially enjoying trying to enjoy. I suspect uh your life you have published
Quite a bit of work here today. We're going to be discussing sex and the single savior
That is the book uh or book topic for today. It's actually a bunch of articles. I think you've published and
found a way to put into a book
and uh was going over that and and i'm curious to get people to check this book out themselves because
Our modern understanding of things don't always match the ancient understanding of things. Uh,
So we're going to get into some of this stuff. I suspect over time
But I'd love to cover one that really catches my attention is slavery as salvation
I just did an episode yesterday
Um, literally talking to dr. Jennifer glancy about slavery and that one was really a fantastic recording
So anything you'd like to say about your books? Uh, no, um
Slavery as salvation was my a version of my dissertation
It was my first book and it was the dissertation. I submitted to wane meeks. It was my advisor at Yale
And then uh, Yale university press published it not long after that. Um
And so each of the books that I published has been something of a follow-up of a of a book or study before
um
So you're right sex and the single savior was
Originally just a bunch of essays. There were six articles and essays that I'd posed before in either
um journals
or in
Chapters in books mostly chapters in other people's books got it and then I just collected those and
Put them into one book wrote an introduction and a conclusion
Although I did I think I added about
To the six essays that were already existing. I added five more essays that I wrote at that time
so, uh
As you can I think see that was published in what 1906 or something. I mean 2006
I'm not quite old enough for 1906 right right
but uh
yeah, that was um, that was because
uh, I've said
Offhand things here and there throughout all of my writings about gender
sexuality
and and and sex
and
You know people would keep asking me. Well, what is your book about this?
You know, you have all this stuff in one place and I never did so I put those things in that
uh book and published it in 2006
And it still gets a lot of attention
Yeah, it caught my attention and I thought to myself. Okay
I'd love to discuss this with you to find out more something that just a little bit about me
My audience knows this but I emphasize it because someone new might be watching this never seen me or you
um, I grew up in a house
very conservative very
Uh, you know old school. My dad was a retired green brand of special forces. I was a fundamentalist christian
Who had a certain idea of the world around him?
I judged if you will because I thought my understanding was the proper understanding of all things
and now that I've
Come out of this fundamentalism
I've started recognizing more nuance to the world and understanding not everybody's born in a house
with the same kind of upbringing and structure that I may have had and um
So the topic of sex gender
The sensitivity from people who come from feminist studies different things really catch my attention because it's like
Visiting another planet, but it's been right under my nose the whole time. I've never noticed it
So another thing just to plug
As we continue your books are here
There is a recent video that uh, I actually edited this because I work with bart airman that he did does the bible condemn homosexuality
Guest interview by jeffrey syker and of course it's complicated
It's a complicated thing because it's not the same as we imagined today
And I hope to get into that
I have a patreon for those who want to support us and we have a course site for scholars
If you're interested in taking courses with mpp courses just launched another one
We've got four courses out now and we're still building more. Okay. Dr. Martin. Why did you write this book?
Or why did you compile it and decide to make this into a book?
Because I kept getting a lot of questions about it from people. Um, you know
and I realized that
I got tired of saying well if you looked at my book so and so and so and so
You know, you might see that I addressed that question there
Or this article or that article which work most of the articles are not really accessible to your normal person
they had to go to a library and
you know search down the
article and
You know read it there in the library or try to get it online or something like that. So
I think in fact that was
You said that was the person interviewing bart was jeff sykes. Yes, uh, syker syker. That's right. Yes, sir
Well, jeff and and i'm bart. We're all three friends way back at princeton
When we were getting our master's degree. So it's been a long time before now
But we were friends. We've been friends for our whole careers and
You know one or two of you articles
uh, we're actually
written at the request of jeff sykes syker
And he published a book
Mainly for a presbyterian and church audience that included
Articles and essays by a bunch of different people
Some of them were supportive of gay people and some of them were not
And so that's where that article first came out was jeff syker was the editor of it and published it
So it was easy to kind of, you know work with him to pull together the other essays and just put them all in one place
There's a couple so as the the interview proceeds and continues, of course
I want everybody in the chat to know. Thank you for being here. Thank you for supporting us
The likes the shares the comments showing love to dr. Martin for his time
Giving your attention to us here and being patient for the stream to start
I'll get your super chats here in just a bit which you can super chat questions comments. All I ask is that you're respectful
um, dr. Martin, I want to ease our way into this subject because
It is obviously a sensitive one for many people
But also it's it's something I think that a lot of people can use to
Really stop weaponizing as we say the bible
so
The first thing that comes to mind
Is jesus is single at least portrayed single uh forget what dan brown says
It seems like he's a single man
What what have your what is your studies on this?
Is it odd to find that you have a jewish rabbi like jesus who's single what is
Have you as a personal like researcher into this and studying this historically and such
Has that like raised your eyebrows?
No, but it's because I know more a lot. I know a lot more about ancient judaism than most people do
um
A lot of people when they say that
They're taking modern traditional ideas of judaism
um
What we call judaism today?
Really came about more from the rabbis than it did from jesus directly or from any of the prophets
Up until uh the year 200 or so or sometime in the second century of our century
Uh judaism was not that different from the other countries around it
And so they had profits, but other countries had profits
some of their profits were single and
some of them taught against marriage and
child rearing
It was not unusual in the ancient world
You have greeks and romans who did it you have
Jews who did it you have christians who did it
what changed was uh for some reason the rabbis and starting around the year maybe 150 or 200
They started teaching that uh good
Jews should be married and have children they should procreate
Now there's been a lot of debate about or a lot of just assumptions about why this happened
Some people just said well judaism has always been much more pro family
Than non-jewish cultures. Well, that's just not true
And all you have to do is read a ton of ancient jewish pre 70 pre 200
texts
and
They're not necessarily pro family or pro procreation
They're kind of like whatever's around them
um
And so
But what happens is I think that and this is just my theory and this may be controversial
I think the rabbis changed their view precisely because christian
Uh monasticism was becoming so powerfully important
It was attracting so many people
Uh, you know the monastic movement really starts off
kind of in the second century
So we're talking around the year 150 or something like that, but it doesn't really get going strong until after the year 400
but around uh
Around 200 the rabbis I think start noticing this
And so that's when you have the first kind of gatherings of rabbinic scholars
And they start interpreting the jewish bible
To promote sex and the family
Procreation of the family
But actually people will point out that they they promoted to even sex. They basically taught that uh, you know every man and his wife should have sex every friday evening
Uh after the wife goes to the bath, of course
Uh, she goes to the jewish bath and then she comes home and then they have sex
And this is kind of what the rabbis sort of promoted, but that didn't start happening until
150 years after jesus's death
So if you want to understand what jesus was talking about you have to look at the Judaism of the year 50
Not 150 or 200
And if you do that you see and I point a lot of this out in my books in several other places that um
There's a reason that modern scholars and christians kind of
Invented the myth
of the pro-sex
Rabbis and Judaism of the ancient world and then they transferred that to jesus
But it's just not the case if you look at the historical sources
Things shifted in the second century is what i'm saying and that uh, the
The rabbis started promoting sex and procreation
And the christians started to become even more anti sex and anti procreation
after the year 200
So dr martin if there's any way I could get you to tilt your screen just to get you more into the picture
Um, I might do this here. I don't know if I can center us a little bit here
um, my
My ipad's on a stand. So is this okay or is this that's fine with me if that's fine with you
I'm good. Yeah. Yeah. I just wanted to make sure we got more of you in the shot. Um, so okay
Sex and a single savior
All of these issues with sex a lot of them come up when it comes to same sex relations
A lot of people especially when I was growing up
We would use the bible and the one sin among the whole list that paul might list or whatnot
The one sin that was really the big no-no, right? It's almost like you favor the one
Was that a man with a man or a woman with a woman?
And so I wanted to dive into this because your book actually deals with these terms
So can you edge us into this whole topic and what you have discovered that is different from what we see today or
How how are you addressing this thing that paul list and does jesus agree with this like
Where does jesus fall into this category because as you well?
I mean i've seen lectures by you've read some of your works and
You're you're not a person who thinks everything we see in the gospels is what jesus actually said. It's it you're very critical
Um, so how do we understand what jesus thought and what is paul doing here?
Well, if you really want to get into the problems of what did jesus do and think you have to really dig down deep into
The scholarship called the historical jesus scholarship, which uses a bunch of different methods for trying to figure out
What sources can we use?
to get material about
jesus of nazareth
What um methods do we use to winnow out?
the
historical from the a historical
um
How do we decide then?
What we want to go back and attribute to the historical jesus?
and to
people who wrote after him
um
That's all very complicated. I mean people spend their whole careers
And in fact, I have written on the historical jesus in several different contexts
Showing how I would do it
One of the chapters in the section the single savior
Kind of goes through and talks about
The different visions of this sort of thing
Uh in the bible and erotic christianity
And I have a section of that on okay, what would we say if we were just doing the historical jesus and I come out with some conclusions
um
And but that's it's all very complicated. So
Uh, but the person has to ask okay
The other thing is I'm something of an amateur theologian also in christianity and
I
need to constantly point out that
The source for christian doctrine and christian faith
Is not the historical jesus
It's the jesus of the bible right and so
Uh, you can spend all your life
Hunting for the historical jesus
But if that's what you're basing your faith on then you're not being very orthodox from a christian point of view
right
so, uh
I think that what's important to see though is that once you pull back the scope
from the historical jesus
to
early christianity and its teachings
Then you find a wide variety of views
You do find anti-family views and you find pro-family views
among both jews and christians
and so
But christianity became
I think christianity became more and more ascetic
that is
Controlling of both food and diet and sex and desire
um
I think it became more ascetic as time went on
And partly just because they looked around I think and they said hey, this works
You know, there are a lot of ordinary people out there who were attracted
to this ascetic
movement
And I've tried to explain that in various ways that in the ancient world
Sex was linked with procreation and procreation was linked with death
So if you want to escape the cycle of death
In human experience then one of the best ways to cut the cord is to stop having sex
So that makes sense
And so that's the way people reasoned in the ancient world. And so it became
The avoidance of sex became very popular
Uh in both christian and non-christian movements
And and it just happened in in a period of time from the air from the year say 200
until well all the way through until the
Reformation you really had to have martin luther and john calvin come along
before you had the
Protestant redemption
Of sexuality that you got
Uh in the reformation in modernity
So it was a movement that swept through the ancient world and the medieval world
And it's complicated and it takes a lot of historical explanation, but that's the sure answer
Yeah, there's and I asked a historical jesus one which I don't blame you for taking the time to actually
Try to spell that out because it's difficult. Um, there's strange stuff
The eunuch, right? Uh, if you can they there's the encouragement of being a eunuch from what I understand eunuchs
Are in a different category than just male female. Um, they they kind of are their own little category
Am I right in uh in this?
Assumption and what why is he encouraging that is this really the voice of the author and
What the kind of christianity of the time is trying to portray you think?
Uh, well, that's all really hard to say right
So
First question who are what are eunuchs in the ancient world?
The eunuchs become symbolic for a lot of different things in the ancient world
They become a symbol for the avoidance of sex entirely
Although we know that they didn't avoid sex, you know, people think oh eunuchs could have had sex
Yeah, they could and they did
um
There are lots of different ways of making a man into a eunuch
and the different
Procedures that you use would have to do with whether he could still
have an erection
Whether he could still ejaculate
And whether he was still fertile enough
to procreate
Now most of the time he wasn't fertile enough because they usually tried to make sure he couldn't have children
And that's because the reason they used eunuchs was not
To preserve the purity of the eunuch
It's because they used eunuchs to take care of their women their wives and daughters
and so they want and they and and you know
People usually knew that there were stories all over the place about eunuchs having wild sex
with women in
harems and palaces and things
And they probably could have because there were there are lots of different ways to have sex
You know, you don't have to have it the old-fashioned way
Um, you know, you can use all kind of different body parts and uh, so and they did
So
But the the real push for it was that you know, even if you have a eunuch in your wife's bedroom
Who is kind of noodling her?
Or you know getting nasty with her
The thing you're mainly concerned about is that you don't want any children to come out of this
Because then you could not legally figure out whether they were your children or not
right
So it's all it's once again a procreation thing and we get that weird thing in one of the the pastoral's
I say weird because you could see there's a reaction. I think
Uh, it's later. I think this is a later pastoral. I can't remember if it's the name of peter or not
But it talks about women getting salvation like by becoming baby making machines like first timothy
Okay, it's timothy. Got it first timothy. Yeah, that that one always struck me as like odd like
Somebody's really upset here. Yeah, if in fact it literally says they will be saved through childbirth
Yeah, someone's someone's on a protest, uh, not digging what's going on
So eunuchs play a special role
I I wanted to bring that up because we're dealing with sex. We're dealing with the single savior
Jesus and and how it's portrayed within our gospel narratives and it also in light of
current events like the
Many christians who are so reluctant to people playing some category outside of the typical male or female role. It's like, hey
Uh, your own savior according to the gospels that you believe is him speaking is encouraging this
So you might want to take some notes and understand your understanding is probably mistaken on understanding the ancient world
I just wanted to bring that up as we're edging into this
Yeah, I do I do think that
The eunuch saying probably does go back to the historical jesus. That's a big debate
Did did jesus himself really make any such statement about eunuchs?
um
I think he probably did uh, just because uh, even though
Because we find it in in more than one place it tends to come up and because
even among some
Original christian writers who wrote it back who passed on that saying they didn't necessarily agree with it
So one of the the rules about when you when you find a saying that says it comes from jesus, then you have to say well
um
One of the ways to argue that it does come from jesus is that it doesn't
um
Let's say it doesn't
Pass the sniff test for whether it links up with the true beliefs of the author
And when it doesn't then you say well, maybe he found it in a tradition and decided to include it anyway, even though he didn't fully agree with it
That usually it's almost like a dissimilarity argument or argument of embarrassment
It doesn't prove it goes back to jesus, but it raises the the probability that
This could have gone all the way back, correct
Yes, in fact, I didn't use the terms
Uh dissimilarity or embarrassment, but those are that's exactly what I was talking about
Usually goes under that kind of uh label. It's an it's an argument that usually goes under that label
Thank you so much for that. I really appreciate it. I have
So i've got a comment here and this is actually from um, Richard Carrier's blog pertaining to the topic
of the two greek words
melakoi
and then I mess up the other one pretty badly is uh, it's arson uh
arson and noik
Arson and noiky or something like this and how do you pronounce it the longer word is arson akoites
Honest arson akoites. Okay, and the short word is molecules
Got it. Well, he says and i'm just going to read what he says and then get your thoughts because
He obviously is not a believer
um
You have fundamentalists who obviously weaponize this and there are some who approaches who have disagreements
No matter where you are on the spectrum
But I wanted a approach paul here
And so he says the liberal critic is correct that the other type of person paul puts on the on his list of the damned
The unmanly sometimes translated effeminate as if meaning gay for example in greek the melakoi
Butchering these pronunciations
Did not refer to gay men but soft cowardly morally weak people of any gender i.e. not the effeminate but the uh, the profligate
So this had no particular connotation against gay men
Nor should we expect it to paul already listed gay men
So he would not list them twice but but list gay men as damned he did
And in the most literal way one could manage in greek using the word arson and noiky
tie or however you pronounce this particularly great word a compound word um, which
To bed which has a different root meaning but had but the same valence as the latin coitus
Literally meaning betters of men hence this word refers to any man who has who has sexual intercourse with another man
It's pretty clear what paul means by this gays are damned. This is what paul means
According to him. I'm sure you've heard this a thousand times
especially
in this research
What are your what's your take on this as you've investigated the topic?
Well, the people who make those kinds of arguments don't know anything about linguistics
They don't understand language. They don't understand how language works
And I just would press them and say
okay
I say I understand the constitution
Well, does that mean i'm standing under the constitution
If I take the word understand apart into its two different components
and define each of the components
individually
And then just slap the word back together and expect that word to mean the combination of these two components
That's just not the way language works
When you come up with thousands of examples, you know just to emphasize for our audience
Betters of men for example, if you just took this word
You're saying the meaning of the word itself isn't just straight up what you're reading
Understanding the oh, I'm not standing under the constitution
Um, but that what does the word mean in your research?
You have to that people have to realize this is something I've spent half my career trying to lecture on
When writers of dictionaries define right definitions for words, how do they do it?
Just use empiricism. Just walk around behind people who bids the editor for webster's dictionary and see
How do they make their decisions? Where do they go for their research? How do they decide what things mean?
They never ever ever ever
Take a word
Take it apart into its a multi-syllabic word and take it apart into its different components
Define each of those different components literally
Right and then shove it all back together and say it's some kind of combination of those. That's just not how they work
That's not how the way language works
Now I use the word understand as one example because everybody knows that it doesn't mean to stand under
Now you might kind of come up with some creative way to say well
Maybe understand originally did mean to stand under
Did mean to stand under
Yeah, to place yourself under the meaning of this word
Well, that's fine if you want to make that your imagination, but there's no evidence for it
Scholars want to have evidence
right
We don't want to have your stupid speculations
But that's what almost all these speculations about arson a coitase meaning arson no
male
Coitase meaning bed
Now look even there they make a lot of advances without any proof
They had termed it arson us refer to any male no matter what age or situation
And they refer that they infer that coitase doesn't necessarily mean bed
It metaphorically they mean sex
Because I can sleep in a bed with a man all the time and not have sex with him
Right. It's like it's almost like the adam new eve. Well, he knew her. We know what that means, but yeah
Right, okay
So you don't the way you figure out what a word means
Is you look at all the different contexts for that word you can find
In a certain social context
Now the problem is arson a coitase occurs only about five or six times in the ancient world. It's very rare
And it's almost all
in christian texts
And almost all of them in fact all of them post date paul
That's the hard part
So, you know, you can't go you can't look at paul and say, okay, well, let's go look for a dictionary
From before paul's time and say, okay, how did they define arson a coitase? Well, it doesn't exist
And so people would just say, oh, well, we'll just make it up
We'll just say that, you know, paul must have meant men who have sex with
Men because arson is men male
And coitase is bad, but it can also mean sex. Well, what is it?
Well, why don't you just be literal about it and say men who sleep on beds?
That makes just as much sense as what you're saying
But that's not what you want it to mean. So you say that's not what it means
So people who use this kind of definitional applicability
Number one, they don't understand language. They're not linguists
Number two, they don't understand how language usually works
Number three, they don't understand how how dictionaries usually make definitions of words and thus how scholars should make definitions of words
So they just throw all that out the window and say, well, I happen to know that it means men who have sex with men
Well, you haven't know that because it backs up your
bigotry
frankly, so
Sorry, just a jab in here. This is this is uh
I I'm I'm fairly confident that richard carers not anti gay just so you know, he's I think
He's I think there's a lot of scholars who out here do this
But I do want to make a point that
You're not saying that it isn't implying that there's some sexual act taking place with the context of the rest of the sins being listed
But but you're saying it doesn't mean just man laying with another man
It's it there's more to the context in trying to understand the meaning of this term, correct?
In fact, it can mean the same way as I've argued that molecules
Doesn't refer to homosexuality. It can refer to any kind of sex
Along with all kinds of other things like wearing perfume or having your hair done at the beauty shop or
You know wearing fancy clothes
molecules means all those things
So to separate it out into one kind of sexual meaning is just it's just bad scholarship. In fact, that's no scholarship
um, but that's and I I'm not saying that
Everybody who puts forth these opinions are anti gay or homophobic because they're not
Sometimes they're just not very good scholars
They just believe what they've read in books
Or they believe what some professor told them in school
And they haven't gone back and done the original research
You know, so, you know, that's what I did I took every time I could find and I use computer searches
Every time I could find the word arson a coitase or something similar like arson a courtia
Which is kind of the noun abstract from arson arson a courtase arson a courtase refers to a person
Right arson a courtia
refers to the state
um
Of being of being in arson a courtia
Now, but there are just so many ways that you you could see that as saying these are men who like sex with women too much
In fact, that's one of the main meanings of malacos is it's women men who are soft
That's the literal meaning of malacos is soft
But you know soft can means almost can mean almost anything and it did mean almost anything in the ancient world. We have but
You know, I took
I tried to find the few different words
occurrences of arson a coitase or arson a courtia or whatever
in
ancient greek
Both before and right after paul
Now there's nothing before paul
With the actual word
Now some scholars will do again this kind of commonsensical way of they think they're doing good scholarship because I say well
In leviticus, there's a leviticus passage that says
That has the word arson and the word coitase
in the same paragraph
Well, then they just say, okay, just put them together
And let them say paul was the first one who ever put them together. He was the originator of this term
Well, they don't know that this is just ridiculous
I wish scholars would you know, these people who say this would pay more attention to a scholarship actually functions
It just doesn't work that way and it doesn't work that way in any discipline
I don't care whether you're talking about shakespeare's use of language or paul's use of language. They just don't use language that way
so
I actually took every time I could find arson a coitase or any of the borrowed words
in any time around the time of paul
Or before the time of paul or in the first few hundred years after paul
Now the fact is it occurs very very seldom. It occurs nowhere that we can find before paul
Unless you try to say well, we're going to combine arson
From these texts with coitase from these texts, right?
Now just just so we're on the same page
What do you make because your work specifically dwells on the first century with paul here?
But the leviticus passage
How do you understand that passage?
Do you think there is a condemnation there? And I know the interview that I was mentioning with with uh
jeffrey cyker and
Barnarmine does the bible condemn homosexuality. They go to this passage and he brings up an interesting point
Whether these are two men that they're condemning together
um or not
he's like look
You mixing fabrics
I mean literally you're just as condemned as if this was somehow eating the wrong foods or this behavior if they're thinking these are two men
What do you interpret that leviticus passage to maybe mean two men together?
Well number one
I think a lot of people are influenced by the greek translation of the passage
And in the greek translation it does make it look a little bit more like men with men
But if you just take the hebrew
In its original context
uh
It could mean all sorts of things
literally
it it says
Males who have male males who lie
with males
as a male lives with females
are condemned well
What does that mean?
In the modern world since we're so
You know obsessed with that
We can't seem to get that but but people have pointed out this could just mean
uh
If you have sex with a woman
No, if you have sex with a man
But you do it in the same positions that you would use with a woman
That's doing it as with a woman
Then you're condemned
But if you have you know some other kind of sex
Then you know it's not a man having sex with a woman as with a woman
It's just having sex with a man
So you could say that in the original hebrew
And that's that's one verse. There's another verse in i think deuteronomy that basically repeats this
But the words are the same
There's just see this is the problem with interpretation people who aren't
Used to this don't understand you can't pin down interpretation to one meaning it just never works that way
it this so
The hebrew version of that verse in leviticus
Could be almost anything it could be a man who has um a man who has sex with another man by kissing him
Because you know who kisses another man
You don't kiss other men you kiss women
You fuck another man
So that's what they'll say, you know, you could say that just as easily
But nobody takes that route because it doesn't support the anti homosexual reading of the passage, right?
so it's that there is definite propaganda and and for me like
Whatever the bible says on for me like it it doesn't harm me one way or the other at least anymore
But that's because i've kind of let go of of that kind of radical fundamentalists
There was a there's propaganda built into this and notice we always focus on that one
Part of the whole section that paul's condemning and like it were overly obsessed with that's the sin that'll make you a
Reprobator, you know, there's all sorts of apologetics that are out there doing this
So
I'm sure you're aware of eden dirshowitz work
He actually does some really interesting things to say that he thinks maybe even some scribes have inserted stuff
Within what we see in the heber bible because initially it was incestual material rather than it being
Maybe same-sex relations as some have interpreted this to mean
Do you have a thought any thoughts on this or well? I definitely agree that um
Scribes all over through history have both deleted and inserted things into scripture. That's just what they did
So that's always one of the part of scholarship is okay. Do you take the time to go back and try to figure out? Okay
What's the original author say about this?
And what did he think he meant? Well, even then we're getting so far back in history that we don't even know who the original author was
Right
And there's no way to find out
So I basically say
The only thing that's responsible scholarship is for you to look at
The function of this terminology in its different historical context
And then say okay. Now. What can we say it meant over a period of time and a string of different social and environmental
context
and certainly
You could have had somebody's
Both in the ancient world later who said oh this refers to men
It refers to those months over there who sleep together, you know, they shouldn't be doing that but
But there's just lots of other ways to interpret it and yeah
That's why the history of the meaning of the bible
Really can never be done without the history of interpretation
now
My main goal has been
Uh, as you may well understand from your background
I I don't want to quibble over every little word in the bible
Because I don't think we'll ever get to an answer about all that stuff. Right
What I want to get people to do and this is what my
Sex and the single savior try to do this with its first and last chapters and then my book
Pedigogy the bible tried to show how this could be done also
throughout the bible and in my book
Biblical truths tried to show how this could be done in a theologically
sophisticated sense
And I've tried to teach in all those books that the meaning of the text
Is not decided by some historical critic who gets back to the ancient meaning
It's decided by the modern person who uses it for whatever purpose they're going to use it for
And so I say if you're a christian you need to first start off with your christianity
And not assume that you're going to inform all of your christianity by some kind of historical reading of the bible
That's not how it works
Your historical reading of the bible is usually influenced by your form of christianity rather than vice versa
Right, right, right. So the perception the glasses we wear help us determine
What we're seeing as the meaning and and the answer that the answer that is not to do what modern people think the answer is
A lot of modern christians also, which is just take off your glasses
No
We're all bringing something to the table
In in while you and me have talked about this a long time ago
I want to try to understand the historical context surrounding things the best we can and I get there are no matter what
We can't get into the mind of these people, but we can try to understand the meaning
That's why I want to ask you as a scholar
Since we've kind of touched on Leviticus
We know that there's these these passages that people love going to ignore the rest of them
But focus on these because these are so
potent to our agenda politically ethically socially whatever it may be
How do you understand what what is your personal walk away if you were doing all your historical research?
I know that you're you have your own subjective
Everyone does uh in how we're looking at this
But when you walk away from reading paul cultural context
Corinthian church what's going on in Corinth?
How do you understand what paul's saying here to this audience the best you can?
What do you think he means by this even though we don't know with absolute certainty?
What what do you think he means?
Well in first Corinthians paul is is where most of it comes up
paul is addressing different questions that the Corinthian church had posed to him
And the Corinthian church was divided heavily divided in at least into at least two
sections
And one of them seems to have been more ascetic than the other
and so
You know their first Corinthians is organized into different chapters
You know the first part of it deals with simply the theme of unity
Because paul's and there that's where he comes up with all the body images the body metaphor
You know the church is like the body the body of crisis the body of the church and
And the body is not meant to be split and
But there he introduces something that's rather unusual in the ancient world
He says that the higher members of the body like the head
Must submit to the lower members of the body such as the feet or the genitals
And it's that flipping of the status hierarchy of the body
That makes paul's teaching about the body
So unusual in first Corinthians
But that's the main theme of the whole letter
And then he starts hitting up once he's established that that's what's really going on is that the church is the body of christ
And it must be functioning in a loving manner. So he introduces the theme of love very quickly also
And love doesn't mean feelings. It means looking out for the betterment of your fellow human being
But then, you know, he gets into
you know
Taking other christians to law courts
He says, you know, you should stop doing this
And there he again faces the issues of
social status
Because it's pretty clear that the people who would be suing their christian brothers and sisters would be the higher status members
Because they would be better able to get good representation in roman courts
Lower status people could get very little good reputation in roman courts or greek courts for that matter
So paul is sat he's siding with the lower status members in the church of corinth
Uh, and then you get um
Chapter seven, which is this chapter on marriage and sex
And there again paul admits that maybe the people who want to avoid sex even in marriage
Maybe they do have the better argument
But he says they should
Submit to the weakness of their brothers and sisters and and that means
If if you're a man who's married to a woman and she wants to have sex then you have sex with her
It doesn't matter whether you want to show that you're superior
So he takes
Go through the list
Women praying in tongues
and
First Corinthians 11
And so he says, you know, let you know, they should veil themselves
Well, that's kind of unusual because paul usually argues that women should be
Treated completely equally at least in the church
But there he wants to say that women should veil themselves and he says a very strange term. He says because of the angels
Yeah, they want to have sex with them, right? Well, that's that's the debate, you know, there's been a million interpretations about
those
Two or three words is according to how you write in greek because of the angels
And some people some people have said
Women should be veiled because they don't want to tempt the angels to want to have sex with them
And that's definitely one of the meanings that the ancient world had
They interpreted genesis six
Which talks about the sons of god coming down and mating with the daughters of men
And they say that's angels having sex with human beings human women
So somehow people say paul believed that if a woman covered her head in fact, I use the term
prophylactics
You know
The veil is a prophylactic for paul against the invasion of women's bodies by bad angels
And you know to get out of modernity you have to use all kinds of moves
You have to say number one angels aren't all good
Right throughout most of history angels could be just as bad as they could be good
So there are lots of bad angels in history
And paul for paul he believes that they're as likely bad angels as good angels
And so maybe he meant that the bad angels would want to have sex with the women if they saw their heads uncovered
But why would that make a difference? And so I speculated well then a lot of medical ancient medical texts
The head was seen as the
Other part of the body linked to the genitals
The head was the upper entry to the body and the genitals were the lower entry to the body
And so just as you should in fact paul makes this comparison just as you should keep your genitals covered
So women should keep their heads covered
um
But you know, that's just that's again guesswork. Yeah interpretation and and based on
Some I mean there's evidence there. You're just nobody knows for sure
Yeah, no the the the hot one right the hottest one dr. Martin
That I had memorized and I still to this day know men with men working that which is unseemly burned in their lust one toward another
Uh, there there's something recompense, you know, anyway, you get the point that that's king james only
I was a king james only is back when I was a fundy
um
Romans chapter one all creation, you know is is evidence
But he's got a list of those who are the condemned
How do you understand this passage and in light of the fact that we assume paul's never been to the this church in rom
So he's kind of right in his cv. Here's my cv. You join, you know, believe in this gospel
What are your what's your take on this in romans one?
well, I I basically say
uh
Paul could be talking about male on male sex. We just don't know
But if you take for example, this is one of the parts of my article on arson a coités
If you take all the times in the first
two or three centuries
That the term arson a coités occurs
It's almost always in christian text
And it's almost always in contact. It's almost it's never used just to nobody ever says
Now don't commit arson a coités and I'm going to explain to you what that means
They never say that right they just give you a string of list of things
That you're supposed to board. These are the column vice lists and scholarship
and you know, there's always
stealing
mistreating widows
robbing other people
But if you I went through and I said, okay
When you find arson a coités listed in these passages
of text
What are the other sins?
And they're not sexual sins
They're economic sins
Like cheating your fellow human being
And I say now this is important because say you get to the acts of john
Which is second century
Sometimes into the third century document
The acts of john has a couple of different lists of vices that jesus points out
In one of them arson a coités occurs
And that's in the list of sins that are economic sins
That's robbing your poor neighbor
charging interest
um
That sort of thing
Now you go later in the acts of john there's a list of sexual sins that include things like idolatry
Trying to think of the word for
General illicit sex porneia for example
And
All the lit all the terms in that list
Are sexual sins
Now where in that list does arson a coités occur?
It doesn't
If arson a coités was originally a reference
In the acts of john
To a sexual action between two men
It should occur in the sexual list
Not in the economic list
And so I say
Apparently we could use this as evidence that arson a coités even in paul's day
Didn't refer to simple sex between men. It referred to the taking advantage of a man
Via sex for financial purposes. Hmm prostitution in a way, right? Yeah, that could be being a pimp
That could mean prostituting out your slave who's a male
To have sex with women
And so
You just look back at the use of these terms in there. That's the way
Dictionary writers actually write definitions. They look at the context
Of the word and what the word could possibly mean
in this context
What do we do with the females or the the
So it says that women with women, right?
Same thing. Would you apply that same thing to women being prostituted as well?
We'll see there's your mistake
You're the one who said it was the same thing
Well, no, I mean as far as what you were just saying about how it's taking advantage of possible
It's possibly taking advantage of a male
Being prostituted or pimped or taken advantage of for financial reasons
Would we say the same thing in romans one possibly for the women there where it says?
um
Likewise also the men leaving the natural use of the woman burned in their lust one toward another
Men with men working that which isn't I'm reading a specific translation
I can go to a different one and there that's the thing about the translators too. Like they don't all use the same
Terms when they're when they're translating this but women with women, you know leaving the natural use the body
Is that also probably in the same category you were just describing?
I think that modern people take that
Forsaking the natural use of the body
As being heterosexual sex, right? That's a modern account
I would I've said paul could just mean that
um
Women are supposed to be on bottom and I do believe that paul believed
That women were supposed to be the
the submissive bottom
In sexuality with a man and that was the big sin for paul was the disruption of the hierarchy
paul was very hierarchical
And so I think what he's saying is that it's what people do is I say they take that word that's translated likewise
in the greek in english
and but
It doesn't mean so what does likewise mean there?
It doesn't necessarily mean likewise women are exchanging sex with women for sex with men
That's just introducing the whole
topic
It's what we really mean when we say begging the question
I get so mad when journalists and even scholars sometimes say well that begs the question
And then they ask a question and you go that's not what begging the question means, right?
I've I've been guilty of that in the past. Yeah, begging the question is a is a technical term of debate
And it means you're using in your
side of the debate
Something that is itself up for debate
So when people say well paul says likewise women with women
Well, he must mean
Women having sex with women
Instead of men. Well, what could he mean women who have sex with women with is
Destructing the hierarchy hierarchy
One woman being on top
people in the ancient world
generally didn't have any
idea of what egalitarian sex could be
if you had
intercourse
There had to be a penetrator and a penetrating
That's just the way they thought
And so if you say women with women. Well, okay, who's the top who's the bottom?
So it may not mean at all women forsaking women with
Except with women for sex with men
It could be women
Getting on top with another woman or another man because just it could mean a woman being on top of the man
right
Isn't there a jewish isn't there a jewish writing where adam's first wife literally?
This is the problem in their sexual situation. I think so although I couldn't tell you where to find it right now
But yeah, I seem to kind of come into that. Yeah, lilith was like wanting to be on top of adam and adam was like uh-uh
and
And one more thing that you said that I think is interesting later rabbis the way that they dealt with this well
No man penetrated them and they try they like rationalized their way in saying well, they're look
Okay, so what they scissored who cares come on and they got over it, you know, so it's an interesting point you're bringing up
Yeah, this this just goes to the point about interpretation and
That I keep trying to make this
Please please please look at the words
Don't read a paragraph and then think you automatically know what it all says
Look at the exact words and go back in history and try to figure out
What is the meaning of these exact words and what is the scope of the meaning because you're never going to get to the one single meaning
But you can get to a scope a range of meanings
And that's what you use to do the interpretation
Thank you, so just I want to actually echo in a way what you just said
um
If you're if you're hearing dr. Martin today and you're somebody who knows somebody that is radical
Or they think they have the answer and the understanding of what is being made here and they're weaponizing this book
refer this this book that dr. Martin has written if they're interested in actually knowing some some
Refutations or arguments maybe that give other alternative explanations
But it also lowers your confidence in thinking that this is just an outright condemnation of any and every deed or act
And another thing is i'll even go further
Suppose the hierarchy. I like I like his hierarchical
position here where he's talking about how it's more of a power struggle
We live in a different time
So let's move on. Let's get out of this. Uh, this this this model
Uh
And that's my encouragement to the audience so dr. Martin. Can we get to q&a and take some super chats and sure
I really enjoyed this you're by the way
It doesn't just focus on this the book goes into much many other things, but I figure why not highlight these particular, uh topics
okay
Go into the top and while we do I need to give everybody some visuals to look at here
This is the book we're discussing get you a copy sex and the single savior by dr. Dale martin
And I hope we can do more down the road on your other books. So that is my uh,
My little uh request to you dr. Martin at some point. I'd love to have you back to do more. Um, okay first super chat
Someone says brave new history says love your youtube lectures get out your bibles
Thank you so much for that love and support. I really appreciate it brave new history go subscribe
Constellation pegasus is deli christian or atheist?
uh christian a piscopalian
Piscopalian, thank you constellation for the super chat
I really appreciate the support brave new history says it's cane and able not cane and mable
Is that something you've you've lectured on before or something? No, but I used an example
uh
The conservative just says
God made adam and eve not adam and steam
Right and I always say well then who made steve?
Oh
Good one nick flores. Thank you nick for that super chat. I'm just trying to get everybody covered here
I didn't see us. I didn't see a comment. Thank you nick. Oh you got one right here
I loved your book sex and the single savior
My question is how did ancients view or ancient views of the body affect the way sex was acted out and viewed and antiquity?
good question
Oh, that's really hard because
uh
We can tell from different social sources in the ancient world
When when most of us scholars talk about the ancient greeks and romans viewed sex like this
They're basically talking about the educated people
Philosophers so we can go to playtoe and Aristotle and you know platinus and all these different people and
and
When when I can sometimes come across as being overly clean
In saying that's not the way the greeks thought about sex
This is the way the greeks thought about sex, but when I'm doing that. I'm actually I usually have to send the procreate
procreate
Well the warning
precaution what is the word I'm looking for right that
uh
There were lots of other ways of ancient people thinking about sex
and uh one of the
some of the places to go to
is um
Well, we might call it ancient pornography
Get a book of art
for
Pompeii
and look up the
wall designs
for
The whorehouses in Pompeii
because
We have enough of them and in fact herculaneum is even better because more the walls
More the walls survived in herculaneum than in Pompeii
Well, you would walk into a
prostitution
What's the word I'm looking for?
Oh well
You could walk into a place of prostitution and um
The walls would be painted with all kinds of pretty rough paintings
Uh often not very well done
of
All kinds of people in different sex sexual positions
And we think the the reason this was done this way is because
A lot of people didn't want to know how to describe what they wanted
But they could just walk in
You know to the whorehouse and say I want that
And point to a picture
And it could be of a man and a woman
Or a man and a man or woman or woman or whatever
Or two men and a woman or you know any combination above
And we know that there were these pictures that were out there because we they survived in archaeology
Now what did they exist for what were they there for and some of us think well, they were there for advertisement
They're there to say, you know, you can get this here
Um just point to it
So but the thing is the idea that men were always supposed to be on top
No way most people bought that right right
I was gonna say that that becomes like the don't touch cookie jar
That every man's gonna want if you tell us not to do it honey get on top. I'm not playing
Because you're gonna want what you're not supposed to have it's just
How and the other one of the other sources for this that was actually a bit more explicit are the ancient novels
So you get um
The novel called lucius the ass
um lucius the donkey
um or sometimes called metamorphosis because
He's changed from a human being into a donkey and he's changed from a donkey back to a human being at the end of the story
Well, there's the beginning of the thing is all about him having sex with this slave girl
and all the different positions that she wants him to use
with her
and just like pages of
Oh, wow
them having sex
And they say that our generations are getting worse
exactly
Nobody was worse than the greeks and the romans believe
um and uh
in fact these when I was in
uh
college and grad school
we would you know
Sneak those books out of the libraries
Sneak because we didn't want people to know we were actually checking them out
because
They're kind of straightforward porn
from the ancient world and
But you know
We'd be reading this stuff and you'd go, you know, I can't believe there, you know
And then you if you were reading in a lobe classical library, you know, do you know the lobe classical library series?
Okay, so you've got
English translations, but on the left hand side of the page
Uh, you have the original latin or greek
the green ones
for greek and the red
colored ones for latin
And so you could glance over if you're greek or your latin weren't very good
You can glance over just to see what kind of what word they are you they're using here
You know for a sex or whatever
masturbation for example
and uh
And then so you can read along in the english
But you can let your eye wander over to the left hand side of the book and you can see okay
What are they saying in greek or latin here?
and you can see that um
You know
There's lots of different ways to translate this stuff too
and so there's a big translation problem, but
Uh, sometimes the left hand side of the oh, I don't know what I was going to say is it when I was younger
Uh
These books in the library
They were so
The people who published them and then ran the libraries were so purant
That they wouldn't even translate some of these books into english right they would take the greek
The greek would be on the left hand side
of the especially
nasty verses of
uh lucy and the ass
In which there's tons and tons of pages about how big his dick is
And then you go
The right hand side would usually be an english translation
But you read along in the greek and then you look over. I wonder how they translate this into english
It's not in english. It's in latin
And it's because they don't want the uneducated people
To be able to see what's in the text. That's funny
That is there's so many funny things
I'm sure that you can account for in history that that do that. Oh, it is amazing
Mike, thank you. Is it kahi?
Derek, do you know theoretical bs og creator on youtube?
I'd love to see you call him out of retirement for an interview would be fascinating to see two of my heroes talk
Thank you for all you do
I do not know who this is. Can you email me?
Uh with this uh creators information. I'd be happy to reach out. I'm loving this conversation here. Dr. Martin
This is I always enjoy this far site
Do we know anything about the kumran people may have thought about what they thought about homosexuality?
They were as far as we know they were very much against it. Um, but they were against
You could be kicked out of a community for putting your hand under your robe
um
or at least
One of your hands
Maybe your right hand under your robe because they figured you were just doing that to feel yourself
Are to get nasty
They were very very strict about showing nakedness
So that even though this is an all some of these were all male communities
We think it's not sure
Which of the kumran groups were all male and which of them had some women because we have found female skeletons
In a few of the cemeteries. So some people said well, there were women there even if they weren't super important for the community
but
We think that there were
It's a predominantly male community, but even in that
uh
They penalized men
Who allowed other men to see their
naughty parts
So if you happen to be taken a pee in the desert
And another member of the community walked up on you and you happen to take a glance at your penis that was considered a sin
right there
Really
They never bathed together as far as we can tell they never got naked together they were
And so you you can tell what they were obviously concerned about what we would call homosexual attraction
Otherwise, they wouldn't they would have thought well, there's they've been more like a 1950s high school gymnasium
You know where you didn't dare question that one man would be sexually aroused by another man's naked body in the shower
You just weren't allowed to suggest that and that's kind of the way we get the idea about a lot of the kumran writings is that
Uh, they weren't like that at all. They were
They were very strict about
keeping
No nakedness no nudity period among even among
You know two men or two women
Wow, thank you for that
That also tells us that's also a clue into something else people that some of us try to distract the
modern idea of
in the modern world, especially
after the 19th century but before 1960, let's say
Most people bought into the ideology that
you know
Women weren't attracted to other women
period they just weren't
And most men were attracted to other men only freakish men were
Well in the ancient world they were never fooled by that they figured
Everybody was attracted to everything
Uh, and so they didn't have a category of homosexuality because
They just thought every man would find a beautiful young
naked man attractive
Whether he was in the habit of betting down men or not
So, yeah, the categories that's a whole nother
I love learning about this too
Um, Andrew, thank you for the super chat. Did jesus and paul comment on premarital sex?
Jesus no
Um paul
I think we can assume that paul thought it was wrong
But I can't think of any passage where he explicitly says so
Can you?
The only one that keeps coming to mind is that whole if you're burning for you know
You're burning do something about it go ahead and marry but
um
I don't know if one can walk away with that and interpret that to mean like
Don't you know, don't not don't have sex, you know until I don't know
I mean, maybe we're reading too much into it, you know with our modern conceptions
Well, when I wrote about that passage, I said
The main thing we can take away from this passage is that for paul
The problem for him was not so much sex as it was desire
paul viewed sexual desire erotic desire as polluting
And so he kind of
Tries to get
For him and this is where I use the word prophylaxis in my work
This book and I did it because it sounds so counterintuitive to modern people
including modern christians
for paul marriage
Is a prophylaxis against desire
You get married and you have sex within marriage so you will never again experience desire
So you know that's the logic of the passage otherwise the logic doesn't make any sense
A lot of people's logic in the ancient world to me is like
You know they're working within their own confines of whatever they have constellation pegasus
Thank you for the super chassis
So no answer if homosexuality is okay from the bible
This issue of being on top is related to lileth is interesting
Evidently she was real because the rabbis mentioned her many times
I think that lileth is legend or mythology better yet
I would go so far as to say I don't think there's a memory to this at all
And I think they kind of invented her to use this as an example of how the hierarchy should be
um
An interesting thing though. I've had scholars like even joel bedan and others
I I wrote private message and I said hey, what do you think about david and jonathan?
He wrote a book about king david and he says he thinks the authors left the language ambiguous on purpose because
You can read into that clearly and see that they had much more than just oh, he's just my bro like
A deep brotherly love no like this is
I think they had a real romantic relationship the way it's read
I think it's understood to it could be understood that way without having to
Trip overs oneself. So I don't know if there's a flat out condemnation. What are your thoughts or if there's even a positive view of it
I think there were people jews at the time who had positive views as male same-sex relationships
I think that particular author did not I take a cue though
From the way from sol's condemnation
If you'll notice king sol is the one who's the most upset about this
Right and he doesn't he gets mad at david and throws his spear at him and kicks him out of the house and everything
But it's to jonathan
his son
They says you are
What defiling your mother's bed or you're ashamed in your mother
Well, now, what does that mean? Well, if you look around other parts of the bible
Shaming your mother means
having sex
In a way that's not appropriate
So sol is accusing jonathan and I think what sol is accusing jonathan of doing is letting david be on top
Because he's more submissive he's the one who you could tell is submissive in that relationship
That is interesting. I also thought and that this is just throwing it out there
Maybe it plays a role. Maybe it doesn't I also thought about how are you gonna?
Like give me children grandchildren like how are you gonna keep pro creating in this circumstance?
Because he's wanting, you know to keep the seed going, right? That's what I thought of
Um and maybe keep them being in charge, right? So sol's hoping to keep the kingship to his descendants
And uh, it's not gonna work if he's not having babies. That's one thing that came to mind, but
I could be easily reading into that. I like that. I think that could easily be a
One uh possibility and one one of the possible different meanings
But I think if you read those few verses and they're only a few verses
um
With a uh an ear to shame language
shame and honor language
It's chalk full of shame language. Yeah
jonathan is the one being shamed
Now why is that?
Wouldn't david be shamed just as much as jonathan if the main ob the main
thing that sol's opposed to is simply homosexual sex
But he seems much more concerned about jonathan being shamed
Well put
Yeah, I I have one question once we get through these here im nag. Thank you
This is why dogma in christianity is so dangerous if you believe in christ you have absolutely no free will
Thank you for making all these topics available
What while you are a christian
So how do you address this because you see the dogma you see the fight that is going on over and over
How do you particularly address it in light of that super chat?
Well for one thing I would throw away the word dogma because it's too loaded
With negative connotations and I've just used the word doctrine teaching
And I don't think you can have christianity
With just the bible
Um the bible is not coherent
It's not
The bible is not christian. Let's just say that
The bible is pre christian
And if anybody wants to claim to be a christian they're going to have to probably accept some doctrine
For example, the doctrine of the trinity is in my view
And and what I the reason I choose to show myself to
call myself
A doctrinal and orthodox is because I go to a church. I get up and say say the nicene creed
Every sunday. I say the apostles creative. I'm there at morning prayer evening prayer
And you know, I confess the trinity. Well, this
The trinity is not a doctrine
Taught in the new testament as a doctrine
You can find pieces of it
You can find references to the father and the son and the holy ghost
Sometimes all three in one place, but that's still not the doctrine of the trinity
The doctrine of the trinity is the i is the teaching that these are three persons
Not just three ideas or entities. There are three persons who are all
Members of
They're all representatives of god full representatives of god
But they don't take they don't take the place of each other. They're all three
code divine and co-equal
and
You kind of you have all of that together for the doctrine of the trinity
Well, you could never believe that if all you if you limited yourself to only the language of the bible
Because the language of the bible doesn't get that far. You had to have the second century in the third century
before you had
Christians and the and why do you have this? Well, you have christians who are reading their bibles
But they also have gotten into the habit of going to church
And they you know, they've stand up and they say these creeds that have developed over time
and the creeds developed just because uh
Christians need ways to define their faith mainly to themselves
My advocacy of doctrines is not to say you have to believe this
It's just to say this is what I believe
And this is the way I make sense. So the different things I confess
If I confess that
God the father is not the same as god the son. How do I explain that? Well, then I have to get into
uh theological
discussions about that
so, um
I would say I would just say
Let's dispense with the word dogma and just say doctrine
Now I can't remember the last half of that quotation
Yeah, it was uh
Scroll it up here
So if you believe in christ, you have absolutely no free will. Thank you for making all these topics available again
That's a because someone's a believer in christ. They have no free will
That that's just something somebody pulled out of their ass in the modern world
um
Most christian most the christian church has always believed
that
christ is
Divine the christian church has also always believed that free will exists
And they might also believe that predestination exists
And can override free will but the balance between free will and predestination is a complex
theological
Doctrine of discussion which we could go on for days talking about. I mean they did
You know look at history people went on for centuries. This is like all they did most
Yeah, you know in the Protestant church
Extremely so and the catholic just kind of said yeah, yeah, yeah
You Protestants are all concerned about god trying to get everybody to agree with you
We just say the cast would just say we just know this free will and we know that there's predestination
and uh, you know, so we just believe both of them
um
and
The Protestant Protestant christianity really screwed up a whole lot of stuff in christianity
Because it was this overly rigid idea that you have to believe one thing
Right. You can't hold two thoughts in your brain at the same time
So the idea that you can't be a
believer in christ and not also believe in free will and still also believe in
predestination
um
All those are modern inventions really not until much the 18th or 19th century
The reason a lot of people in the modern world have very bad
understandings of theology
Is because they know very little about history
They know more about scripture
Than they do history
But to really interpret this book
intelligently
You need to know the history of how it has been interpreted
for the past 2000 years
Because that's relevant
Yeah, I love I love learning how people did this uh
We get lost in this but Athanasius how he interprets book of revelation versus how you seebius understand
How different people ironias, of course the first guy
I think who's actually trying to say hey look we're being persecuted. Maybe this is prophesying us
Mark Luther did this he first rejected it and he's like no, this is about us in the roman catholic church
Just the way that people negotiated with these texts is interesting
Constellation pigs this says so what does the bible or not condemn homosexuality?
So it's like I think that and can I speak like you tell me if i'm right or wrong here
But i'm gonna like speak on your behalf
um
The bible is not one message
So like in a way you might find something that might be condemning certain acts that would categorize this homosexuality today
um
But that category itself is a modern conception the way that we're we're labeling it
But maybe there is overlap between certain actions
We would say today would be labeled as homosexuality the bible has places where it may condemn that are there any places where it doesn't do that
So how would you want to address this does it condemn it or does it not condemn it?
uh
I have to go back to more fundamental issues of hermeneutics
biblical interpretation
Often when I talk about these things I hold up a copy of the bible now
This is actually just a copy of the greek new testament. I just happened to have it on my desk right here
So you have to pretend this is a copy of the whole bible
And I hold it out on the lectern in front of the audience
And I say somebody says well, what does the bible say about homosexuality?
And I'll say okay. Well, here's a bible
Let's hear what it says
And I plop it down on the podium
And I say I say okay. I got to turn this off
I say shh
Don't say anything. We need to listen
You know, I don't want you talking because I don't want to hear what you think
I want the bible to tell me what it thinks
And you know, you keep just kind of pushing this and saying the bible doesn't speak the bible can't speak
The bible is an inanimate object. It's a text
It has to be interpreted
So the bible only has meaning for how it's interpreted
It the bible has never spoken in its entire existence
And we can't force it to speak now. You could put it on a rack
Put it on a rack and squeeze all the blood out of it that you want to
You'll never you'll never get the bible to say anything
Right, right. It's the best under torture because it won't speak
So that's what I first say is that
Does the bible condemn homosexuality or what?
that kind of simplicity
is
That's the property of dummies
People who actually read texts know that that's not a very good question
Thank you for answering appreciate it
I kind of figured you could find if you're if you're trying to glean
Certain instructions that might be condemning certain things you can find things that might overlap
But the category itself was one that I would say is a modern conception as well because you're talking about a completely different system
In which they lived so if we take the whole the bible doesn't speak
But we assume it is giving us information and we're trying to interpret it the best
You may find condemnation that overlaps with what we call homosexuality, but I would imagine also
There are probably it doesn't speak about certain things which would mean it's not condemning certain things
Which when in a sense you could say
Is actually saying that's okay
It's these things we're saying aren't okay
So there again, that's not that's not radical enough for me. I want to say
stop giving
a personal agency to a text
This is our habit
What does the constitution say about democracy? Well, it doesn't say
anything
You have to interpret it
right
What does the bible do about this the bible doesn't do anything
People use the bible to do things with it
And I just keep trying to shake people out of this idea that you ascribe
agency
to inanimate objects
And say okay, then what is that when you do that? What are you doing really?
You're taking agency away from yourself without admitting it
People do this thing. Oh, I'm not condemning gay people. The bible is
It's not my fault
It's the bible's fault
You just shoved off on the bible
What you just did
You just did it. I heard you do it
So stop blaming it on an inanimate text the text has no agency
The bible is a book
Books have no agency now. There are people who would argue with me all the time about that saying
Oh, but I just can feel it when I'm reading a really good book, you know that this is it's speaking to me
Well, that's because you have a human brain
And human brains are very complex things and they can project
Agency on top everything else around us
Thank you so much
This is there's a lot there to unravel doc pluromena
What implications does the expression giving in marriage matthew 2230 have for the existence of sexuality after the resurrection?
Does this say anything about forms of marriage such as in implying monogamy?
I don't know that it would say anything about forms of marriage implying monogamy
That would be going quite a ways beyond what it says
Giving in marriage just says
Yeah, there were
There are people who are that's the passive form of marrying
And a lot of the ancient languages they say you either marry
Or you're given in marriage
And usually that's understood because the man is the one who marries
And the woman is the one who was given by her father or her brother or her elder
To the man for marriage. So giving in marriage
I assume that what the
Questioners is referring to is the fact that jesus is saying this in matthew in a context in which people are talking about
What is going to be the existence of this thing after the resurrection?
Right
And I think that it's quite possible that matthew anyway. I don't think this is true for all the
Biblical writers
I think it's you can easily say that matthew may well have assumed that people in the resurrection would be married also
Except, you know, there's that passage that where jesus says
You know people in the resurrection people will be like the angels
And that means not marrying
right
Thank you for that pans pot says sorry. I missed the beginning of the stream was jesus gay
So this let let me bring up my question in light of this. I don't know if you've read this book by theodore jennings
W jennings jr. The man jesus loved. I did an interview with jennifer grace bird
wonderful wonderful people and
This is a good question. Was jesus gay asexual
I know of a jewish scholar who speculated jesus was married
Isn't it strange for 30 years to be single by the way? Love your work dr. Mark
Love by the way, love dr. Martin's work. I ask because
I know there are other ways to interpret
But it also if you're assuming john is being written to a greek audience as you point out greek and roman world
like this was the norm that a
A teacher would have kind of a protege that was his lover things like that
Are they paint i'm not saying what jesus himself literally was because those are two different questions
Maybe you want to answer that for the for the uh the super chatter
but like
john's portrayal do you think that this has jesus seen um
In some category of actually having relationships with
What who calls the beloved disciple?
um
I think any of that is possible. I think that I think there are enough
uh
There are enough texts
that hint around about jesus and his relationship
With his male disciples
To say that he had those relationships and that they were physical and I think most of those come from the gospel of john as a matter of fact
right, I think um
Jesus's relationship to thomas
is highly erotic
in the gospel of john
I even talked about this as jesus allowing men to put their fingers inside of him
And uh, you know this sort of thing uh to penetrate his body
Which you know a man would normally wouldn't do
um
but um
And I think that I think that people who say jesus was probably married
They had perfect right to say that I don't see the evidence for it
um
There's just there's no hint in any of the ancient texts that jesus had a wife
Now the counter-argument is occurred in that question also, which is wouldn't this be highly unusual for
Someone being 30 years old without being married and there's that's a simple answer. No, it was not unusual
Um
I've written on this in a few places the best evidence is just to go
To um funeral inscriptions
And I've studied hundreds on hundreds of funeral inscriptions for all different purposes
Mostly for ancient discover what ancient slavery was like
Because that's the best we don't have books and texts for the most part written by ancient slaves
But we have a lot of their funeral inscriptions
And I've argued for example that uh slaves
Seem to be almost as likely as non slaves to have families
Even extended families that has large extended families or you know, the mother and the father the grandparents are also involved there that
Our brother and sister are also included
um
And if you just go through all that material and say okay, what's the age of marriage for this guy?
Well, it's 30
Are there abouts?
Now he may have married a girl who was 14
That was normal
For the girl to be married very young
But the man to be married around the year of 30
the age of 30
and that's because
There were several reasons number one
There were many uh fewer women in the ancient population than there were men
Men outnumbered women quite a bit
So there just weren't enough women to go around for every man who might have wanted a female wife
Number two it took money
to get married and support a family if that was your intention
and men couldn't just kind of
Start running their own enterprise when they were 20 years old
It took them
You know years of building up a business before they could even afford to be married
And men were expected to be able to afford to be married
Unless they could be lucky enough to marry a girl that had a huge endowment, you know
A dowry
But that was very unusual
and uh, so
You know your normal working class man
would
Chances are he would not be married before he was 30
Just because of the financial and demographical issues involved in it
So I've tried to that was a very popular kind of argument
To to try to to try to defend the superiority of Judaism
And therefore the superiority of christian over the greeks and the romans and others
Because the idea was well, jews were always in favor of marriage and christianity just interpreted this from judeism
It was part of its jewish heritage
There's not a shred of evidence for that in the ancient world
And it's just a guess on the part of some people and when you actually look at the different people involved
A lot of these guys were clearly not married even you know into their adulthood, but that seemed not to have been a surprise
Wow
Thank you for that long answer there. Um, I appreciate your answer
Imnaq says to you. Thank you
But most evangelical christian churches are nearly militant especially on issues of gender
Yeah, they are so I think you I think their imnaq is trying to say that
You and imnaq are in the same boat here. Um trying to dispel some of the
The
The bad that's out there militant, you know movements against
People of same sex or whatever lgbtq plus the whole nine
Yeah, well the church is
undoubtedly
Militant when it comes to the military
Hmm, that's true
Our job is to go against all of that stuff
I'm with you. I'm with you. All right, we got a couple more and then we're going to wrap things up constellation
Pegasus is back and says how can a simple yes or no question on a basic topic be so complicated
In other words, the bible does not say thus all of the arguments. I thought the bible was supposed to set matters straight
By the way, a little just I guess it's worth giving context constellation comes from a fundamentals background like me
Um from the jojoba's witnesses
So the way we have perceived the bible
You can see has been a major impact in the way that we're also dealing with it after leaving the faith
yes
Well, I try to get people to see this in a broader life than simply the bible
So for example
There are some scientists who tell us that
um
There's only one universe
And we live in it
Increasingly, there are lots of scientists who say no
There may be two universities and they're making me multiple universes. We don't even know how many universes there are
We don't even know the rules of the different universes
So if there's another universe that's radically different from our universe, why would we expect the laws of physics to be the same in that universe as in ours?
So if I said I'm going to force you to make a choice. Do you believe in a multiverse universe?
Or a single verse universe
No, no, you can't you can't argue about it. You can't have it. You can't say well, it's according to which science you use
It's according to how you put it. It's according to which language you use. You got to just come right down and make a simple decision
Well, the fact is it's not a simple decision
Science is never a simple decision
You know is light to take an old example that is light a wave or a
A wave or a fragment, you know
What's sometimes a particle or something is it a particle is light made up of waves or made up of particles
No, you can't have it both ways
You just have to make a decision one way or another any good scientist will say well
We can't make a decision like that because there's evidence on both sides
That true science doesn't insist that you have to make a simplistic decision
It says try to try to stay as close to the facts as you can
So let me rephrase it for him
Christians that say it is condemned and it is abomination. It is reprobates blah blah blah
What do you say to those people who interpret it that way?
I say you make sense of that
uh by your life if you
If you really believe that all gay people are that kind of people
Then you shouldn't have any friends
like that
You shouldn't allow them in your church. You shouldn't allow them in your home
You should be much more radical
In your rejection of them if you really they're they are that retrograde evil
If they are that much of an evil influence for the for our universe
You should be much more militant in opposing them. You should be burning at the stake
And you're not
Oh
Okay captain sunshine the explanation that the bible does not have agency is worth the price of admission all by itself
Thank you. Dr. Martin. Well, that's great because i'm if i had any one thing
That i wish i could teach most people the most is the bible does not have agency
Thank you brad for bald one says dodge the bible has in it the literal words of god
So it in essence speaks for god
You can't believe in god and disbelieve that it condemns it and that's that plop that on your desk
Well, I just would plop the thing on my desk again and say
uh
If the bible has the literal words of god
Let the bible tell me that
Why do you have to tell me that?
Why are you why are you being a ventriloquist putting the bible on your hand and going like this?
That's what you're doing
You're putting the bible on your hand and you're saying i'm not talking these are some don't look at my lips
Don't look at my lips my lips aren't moving my lips aren't moving it's the bible that's talking it's the bible see
See the bible it's talking not me
That's all you're doing
It just takes some of this a little bit longer to try to
discover that
So it's interesting you say that and bradford is is a buddy of mine. So we're always engaging with apologist here, right?
I interviewed john j collins
Not too long ago and when I did I I said
Look at what god says in hosé or something. I pulled up a verse and it was bad
I mean when you read it. It's sexual. It's violent. It's what the heck
And you know what john did?
John john slick. He's a buddy of yours. You know john actually encouraged me a year and a half ago when I interviewed him
He's like you need to get up with dale. Um
he said
God said like the author of this text said and for me. I don't look dale
I'm not a believer anymore, right, but I also am not like an antagonist
I really want people to to start moving toward a good direction
And he's like god did not say
The man is saying god said does say at the lord the guy writing this book
So you really need to judge the the person who's writing this material if anything and say why did he say god said this?
So then
You get the point and like he's like stop approaching it thinking god actually said these things start realizing the men who wrote this
They're the ones who are showing their own true colors when you're reading this material
So it was a really interesting thing because I had to retitle the video
I was going to say god said this and then he told me that I was like I'm going to title this man is saying
You know what I mean? So it's it's a really interesting
Thing to start practicing but the reason we do that is because overwhelmingly dr
Martin we have christians who for example
What did jesus say if I asked you and I meant that to say read the new testament
You'd go actually that gospel author probably said that or he didn't say that parable that parable sounds like a post war parable
Or whatever it might be you might walk away and say actually I don't think that goes back to jesus
The christians that you see see they're a militant or trying to engage are the ones going it says it
I believe it and hallelujah and like that's the way that they are interpreting the bible
So we're constantly engaging in that kind of model if that makes sense
Yeah, exactly. And I I actually believe that we can't avoid that model
That's why we have to realize that our language has multiple levels of meaning all the time all the all the same
You know, it's like I can say
um
I can't find my way back to the church. What does this map say?
and hand you a copy of a physical map
and
I may mean that perfectly literally
except not
It's according to how you take the words
so
When I say the map says this is the way to get back to the church all of that is um
It's a
shortcut speech
It's it's as if if you're being a philosopher you can't stop every time you say something like
I found a text that seems to say that Jesus was born in
Nazareth and not Bethlehem
Well, somebody so I say well see look what it says in this sentence here
And someone says well, you are so stupid if you think that that text says that
The text doesn't say that
You just interpreted it to say that and then I could just say well, yes
I could I could back all that up and say
I'm going to read this text through the lens of modern historical criticism
Which supposes that there's an author a human author behind the text who's making it up in the ancient world and
And expresses his or her views and it doesn't necessarily exist in history
But if we may take it to be the views of a human author
Although the creation of that human author is purely taking place in our imagination
We don't have any
We don't have any
Art
In the text that shows us a picture of john mark
And say okay now we know who john mark is well no even if we did have a picture of john mark that wouldn't tell us who john mark is
so
This is actually a place where
Even though I completely agree with what john collins was saying because you were quoting him
that
I go quite beyond john in my
radicalness right
In that he still wants to say that the meaning of the text is what this human author
Who wrote the text meant to say?
And I'll say well, yeah, that's one meaning of the text you could say that's fine. There's nothing wrong with taking it that way
But you could also just step back and say from a christian point of view. That's not the meaning of the text
So, yeah, and you and me talked about this where you see it is almost like you said well, do you care how bethoven?
and
Why bethoven wrote the first symphony and why this and that but rather how people understand bethoven today
And I think both are worth knowing I I do try to go back and do the john collins thing
But I also do like to understand because I'm engaging I have to live with people right and so there's a sense you want to understand
Why they're thinking the way they're doing
What they're doing and usually it's like liberal progressive christians buddies with plenty
Like I have no quarrels. There's never really like any issues other than I don't personally understand why I would draw an ontological
You know conclusion on this other than maybe I enjoyed the tradition or I love the whatever might be something wholesome about it to the person
but um
It's it's engaging with these the people that you're trying to kind of defang the harms from so i'm with you
And maybe we could do an episode someday on that I got two more and then let's let you go because I don't want you to go
It's that guy derrick. I'm never going on there again
bradford says
No, that's not what i'm doing the bible adherents have caused so much harm to people
That it's inappropriate to claim since it doesn't speak. It's not making claims and giving instructions
Why is it inappropriate?
that's a fact
it's a it's a
It's a physiological identifiable fact that the bible doesn't speak and is not making claims and giving instructions
So you're saying that to let's break this down for a second to bradford
You're suggesting that it's not the bible. It's the people
Who are interpreting the bible that you're saying are the ones that are technically causing this harm
Yes, it's it's the interpretation of the bible. That's the problem not the bible itself
Same with you could do the same thing with the quran and islam, right?
So you have more liberal progressive Muslims
Then you have radicals that are extremists and they're all looking at the similar book. Maybe they have different hadith
Not sure how they're interpreting this
differs
And this is why we see different behaviors in people
yeah, this is
I just keep insisting. This is not just theory. This is empiricism. What do I mean by empiricism?
You look at the world and you try to describe how it's working
Well
Okay, let's put it this way
I have a friend who
Greatly admires doc doctors physicians
And he says it takes me to the hospital and he's wandering around
He says you see all these people with white coats
Their job is to save the world
I say oh really
Let's test that statement
Let's you and I just pick out one of these people in a white coat
And follow him or her around all day long
Oh, let's follow them for around for a week or a month or a year
Now let's take very copious notes. What did they do today?
And you say at which point in these copious notes can we just draw a line and says equals saving the world
You can't do that
You can say
metaphorically they're saving the world
Or if you they're part of a big complex that involves a lot of human beings saving the world or trying to save the world
But you can't just say that doctors save the world
You have to
In fact, I'm trying to get people to be scientific
Be empiricist
Look at what people do with the bible. Look at what the bible does
And just describe it
in ordinary english
Who's the biggest pushback scholar wise that you have that pushes back against this
What you're describing here and how we try to uh negotiate the meaning of the bible and such
Who would you say scholar wise that has engaged you the most on that?
I don't know because I don't read that stuff. Okay
I just figured out because I know that there's differing opinions snake was right says why read the bible if it doesn't say anything
So this just gets I think there's a misunderstanding here, but
Because the important thing is not what the bible says
The important thing is how you read it. So of course you have to read it
to have a method of reading
It's just that's just rational
Someone said why read the bible if it doesn't say anything that's an irrational question
Isn't it it's it's a force it's a it's a false either or why read the bible
If it doesn't say anything
Well
Why listen to music if it doesn't say anything
Music doesn't say anything either
You can get all kinds of communication from it yourself and interpret it and get all kind of meaning from it
But the music's not just handing you that on a platter
You're listening to the music
And your brain and your culture is what's doing all that interpretation
This is not difficult. It's just a matter of looking at how meaning actually happens
Instead of all these fanciful ideas about how meaning happens, which is what all these people are working with
I was taught that this says this and this says this and this text means this
And they're just piling together a bunch of stuff
They've heard all over their lives and putting it all together in a big mixing bowl
And hoping cake comes out of the end
Well, let's take it apart and look at the different pieces
and
Why read the bible if the bible doesn't say anything
That it's an irrational question
I want to phrase a question
A different way and then we have one left no more super chats, please
I just have one more here and that is
If i'm reading in the heber bible the lxx heber bible either way
God God in the text right as i'm reading this the text says and god told saul
Go kill all of the amelokites every man woman and child
Leave nothing alive like literally annihilate everything
And i'm reading that i'm assuming in my mind right i'm doing interpretation
Which is without a doubt that this is saying god is expecting saul to kill all these people
um
That seems to be how everyone
Mostly other than apologists that i've come across and the apologists that i've come across try to go
Well, what it means is you know when you go out there and your coaches kill them or give them hell or beat the hell out of them or something like that
What he means is is just play a really tough game in football
So they find ways to get out of the meaning of this because it's ugly
As it's been interpreted
um
Go kill such and such
Well, they want to reinterpret on the ugly spots and go
You know this actually does not mean he's saying kill every man woman and child though textually if we're reading
And we go along and we go well look it says that he's taking
The kingship from saul because he did not obey the command to kill all the amelokites every man woman and child and leave nothing alive
I would imagine that that
Yes, there's interpretation
But like the meaning of the words
Don't the don't the words have some meaning that we can read and gain or can we just say kill actually means love like
Like I guess how far are we going in this in this direction to where
We're not able to know what it actually is saying at all
Can we just make it up and say actually god meant to go love every man woman and child of the amelokites because I interpret
Hate or kill to be love or something you see where I'm going like
here a line
and
Where is that line?
That's that's the thing. I'm like I'm wondering language is so flexible, but there's a sense in which we all kind of
Gradually come together and understanding these words to mean certain things in their context. That's why I was wondering
Where you personally withdraw the line like if you read that passage
How does that mean to you like you probably read it the same way? I do like hey, this is some archaic stuff like just an older
An older text that's kind of probably portraying something as we read that is known around other nations other nations did similar things
This liter this literature saying something that sounds similar to what we see in ancient Near Eastern stuff
That's where I'm like. I'm wondering where we draw the line of do even know what it's saying at all
When we're reading this like do we know how to understand this properly in its context or do we just
Can make up anything and let it be anything and it never really has anything we can glean. Does that make sense?
Yeah, again, you're
God you're getting that same old bad modernist habit of
posing in either or and asking your
interlocutor to force
Himself to choose one or the other
And my whole point would be well, of course it means things. It means lots of things
You're trying to make it mean only one of two things. That's your mistake and it's your mistake
But it's a mistake you learn from modernity
You read a text and you think okay. I'm going to follow this down through a series of
Practices of interpretation until I get to the meaning of the text
And if I can't find the meaning of the text meaning one meaning
Or maybe two
Or maybe three I may let you have more than just one
But I'm not going to let you have multiple meanings because then the text just becomes irrelevant
Well, the text could become irrelevant
Just like most texts are irrelevant to most human beings in our world
right
so
It's just it just doesn't make any sense to to say
either has
One meaning or it has no meaning
But that doesn't make much sense. I'm just I'm not even saying that it doesn't I'm trying to just
Understand what the literature might be saying and I know that I keep using that word saying
Uh, and and I think that you're thinking I'm saying that this text is speaking
But if I'm reading a letter from someone if I wrote you a letter
If I have meaning I'm conveying to you if someone read it a thousand years from now
They personally may not know the context
But there are tools we try to use to understand maybe what Derek meant when he wrote a letter to mart
dr martin and
I'm saying that that there's something
That we should try to figure out on what it's saying there and I'm not I'm not but I'm not trying to say that it can be
Anything like if you're saying kill every man woman and child
You can get down in the nuance and go actually maybe what is implied here
We found a hebraic
Idiom and the idiom might actually
Give us this kind of notion because we found this in some type of cation literature
Semitic languages that help us glean on the meaning of certain he break words or whatever
Like I'm I'm saying that I don't think we would walk away and say this means to go and love every amalekite
Every man woman and child of the amalekite like wouldn't there be limitations to how we could and I'm trying to get I'm trying to get you
To see what those limitations are. Yes, there are limitations to interpretation. Right. Okay
What are the limitations?
What limits you from saying this text is all about loving the amalekites
I would probably pull up key details in the context that surrounding context that helped me
Try to come to a conclusion that this looks like war. This looks like
Killing is involved. In fact, some of the context seems to say
He hears someone's alive. He hears cattle. Oh, no, those are for Yahweh. We're gonna sacrifice the Yahweh and it's like whoa
everything was supposed to die and
I would probably build up the context of the whole structure and then try to walk away with an interpretation of what was probably implied in the passage
You know, it's missing from all of this and you're talking about this
You're not giving me any kind of social context for interpretation
That's where limitations come on interpretation
I can't say that that the us constitution means anything I want it to mean
But it's not because the constitution raises up its big, hoary head
And snatches me off the face of the earth and throws me against the ground and travels me underfoot. Right
So what's keeping me from doing that?
socialization
I've been socialized to believe that's not proper interpretation
I'm not sure what that is
But until I learn something differently, I can't accept that in my world
as being
Proper interpretation now that doesn't mean I can just convince anybody out there that I'm right and they're wrong
Right
Meaning is not a thing. It's an entire morass of soup. We swim around in
Okay, there's no place to set your feet on solid ground
Um, it's just you swim
Hmm
Yeah, there's so much here uh to try and like understand about what you're suggesting here
Im nag the last one without the bible christianity wouldn't exist millions of believers live by its every word literally
Well, I would
I would agree with that as a historical statement
Simply because I can't imagine christianity still being around without the bible because the bible I think carried
Uh, the social institutions of christianity. I didn't say the meaning of christianity. I said the social institutions of christianity
The bible helped carry those through by the way. It was interpreted and used in monasticism preaching sermons the church
the home
The bible has been
The thing that I think is most important as a source for christianity
throughout the millennia
But I don't think that's the same as giving the bible agency for doing it
That's when you get into mythology
And christianity should never be simply another part of mythology
So
So from a purely historical point of view, I would say I kind of think you're right that uh
If it weren't for the bible being
Continually produced and in fact, I've talked before that when some of my students say
When did christianity become christianity?
I will sometimes say well you could say it's
Maybe the time of paul that's about the earliest maybe the year 150
When you get justin martyr writing about it, maybe maybe you're 200 when you get clementive clementive alexandria writing about it
In other words, you could say this all different times in history
When you could say it's the birth of christianity
So there's not one time you could say christianity is born on a tuesday
right
in you know 19 uh, you know
413 right after constantine becomes emperor
you know
That that just doesn't work. It's just too simplistic. There are people who literally think that yes
So, you know, I agree with the historical point, but I don't agree with the theological point
That seems to be making that person seems to make it would just say that
uh
It is a part of our faith to believe that christianity can't exist without the bible
Well, no, that's not a part of christian doctrine
You know
Recite the apostles creed
Where's the bible?
right, right, right
Yeah, they're definitely uh, the way that they're understanding and interpreting things
They're applying in the creed
I'm gonna give you last word here to speak to the whole world dr. Martin while I show your books and uh, talk to the audience if you don't mind
About what final words from you? I don't know encouraging words
They need to check out your books like what what's up with the books like what what what do you feel like saying?
How about that? Let's get poetic
Look, I kind of thought we'd gone through everything, but I guess that what I would say is um
I
The world is a complex thing. I don't want to make christianity out to be more simple than the world is
um
I want to accept the complexity of christianity and its history and its scriptures
You notice that I tend to like the word scripture over the bible
And that's because scripture is a wider category
The bible refers to this particular book that's been edited over the centuries and it's published in different forms
But they're almost all the way it's published in basically the same form a few differences here or there
but
scripture can refer to
You know parts of the parts of holy writing that have existed throughout the centuries
And never made it into the bible
But they're still considered by good pious christians as being part of the word of god
The word of god cannot be limited to the bible is one of the things I believe the word of god
Uh is fresh and alive and never ceasing
And so it's a mistake to simply equate the word of the god with the published printed version of the bible
The word of god has got to be bigger than that
Well, thank you so much dr. Martin. I appreciate your time. I hope everybody takes the time to help support us as well
Uh, there is a video that dr. Bart Ehrman did I have a patreon if you want to help us out come join our club here and
Got a lot of stuff coming courses with scholars do a lot of work here and I
Publish it early to those who help support us. This is the website with the courses in vp-courses.com
I hope to see you sign up. We just launched a new one and I really appreciate you dr. Martin and
Let's do this again sometime maybe on some of your other books. Okay
Thank you. All right. Alrighty. Bye. Bye
All right, everybody, let me see here
All right dr. Martin
um
There we go. Okay
Yeah, so I figure I stick around just to chat with everybody for a second here
um, there's a lot there to think about but
I think a year year and a half ago. I
I gave a phone call to dr. Martin and I
Wanted to talk about like the apostle paul and some of the historical research
We actually had this conversation
uh, that you all witnessed and experienced here on the phone
and
In the conversation, he's like, well, what do you look at for us? Well, I want to know what paul, you know
What paul met when he wrote his letters
That's like a big no-no in a conversation with him because
He doesn't believe or think that that can be something you can gain. You can't get into the mind of paul
You can't get into the mind of the author or try to understand their intent or what the meaning of the words that they're writing are sometimes
You can do historical research, but and I've talked to colleagues, of course of dr.
Martin's in the past and they have told us. Yeah, we have a totally different take on this than he does
The way that he interprets this is unique and different
But we don't we don't draw that kind of conclusion. We think we can
Get closer to what is actually being intended by the material that is written
Then just looking at it as a piece of art
And I remember it stuck with me
Which is why I hesitated on doing an interview with him for a long time because I want I want to get down to the
Historical nitty gritty what was meant by these things. What was what do these words mean? What do they say?
um, and he
Looks at the bible or the the scripture as art
He equates it with like bethoven's symphony and the way that you might listen to a song
Is different from how I might listen to a song and understand and interpret that that art, uh, that that piece of music
Maybe bethoven intended in writing this or putting his first piece of music out
Who knows let's imagine it's bethoven loved a girl on a certain street down the street from him and he wrote this because he was inspired by her
The way you're listening to that you are interpreting it in your own way, right?
So your understanding of bethoven's symphony has zero context to demeaning and purpose that
bethoven may have had
and to me
I don't I don't look at
Scripture the same way. Uh, I don't read it that way. I'm not looking at it going this. Just how does this mean to my little group?
Christians have done that and that's important to know why Christians have
Interpreted things how they've understood it socially in their communities and such but like if if I read
You know do not mix fabric in like a code, right?
I'd like to ask like did israelites really practice that?
What is meant by this?
Is there any other examples in history where people that were non-jews or non-israelites who had a code
That might have been something similar to this or kosher food don't eat certain animals
Whatever it might be. Um
I have an idea in my head and it may not be exactly the idea that the author is intending but I get a good
general gist of what I think is being implied here
Um, however, there's a lot of context that I don't know. I wasn't there like
This is something that what he does do for me is help me try to be very cautious in my approaching this
Historically because there's so much we don't get
The feminist studies I brought on my channel and the scholars who are pointing out slavery pointing out things that I never even
realized
um
Start to come to life when you see them in the text and you go whoa
I didn't realize that that was there and that has a an implication. I didn't recognize when I read this as a christian
so
It's hard uh because you could tell he's also very pushed back against any
Uh trying to like get down to the nitty-gritty of what the text says what it means
Even by the words of saying what the text says the text doesn't say anything. This book doesn't say anything here. Tell them how you feel
You see the text doesn't talk the text doesn't speak you in your mind
Once your your mind reads the words and interprets it then it has meaning
And of course you're giving it your own spin
And I would imagine there's definitely a lot more
methodology involved into what I'm describing kill every man woman and child of the amalakites
I would refer to ancient Near Eastern scholars and other experts in the field linguists and others cultural social
archeological the whole nine to try and get to
Can we
Figure out what this is at the end of the day
What if the genre was completely fictional and it's made up?
Or does it have verisimilitude to historical archaeological?
Data that we can pin it down to so there's a lot of stuff you saw a conversation. I don't usually
um sit after a live stream to talk with you about this but
I think it's important to
To to just voice that to you all you're gonna hear different opinions from different scholars
That is what we do right on myth vision and and I just personally
I disagree how far he goes he admits it's radical right he goes far
but
Many colleagues of his as well disagree on that
But he has been teaching that for quite some time and so what I wanted to do is see if there's a specific scholar who
Is critical of that take and maybe possibly have them on the show so people can understand
Uh paul. I think is writing letters
Unless you take them as epistolary fictions that are made up
I personally see too much
What I wouldn't make up stuff if I was making epistolary fictions
I wouldn't have this like really pissed off irritated guy writing correctional letters to churches
That are doing things that he's like come on. You're supposed to have the holy spirit the numah
And you guys are still sleeping with your mother-in-law and you're just so any he's pissed off
It seems in these letters, but then again that might be my interpretation
Uh getting in the way of reading paul's letters. Maybe he's going now, please
I'm not mad, but please stop suing each other. I don't know right? Um,
But it seems upset especially was cut the whole thing off
Galatians right
Sounds like there's some anger that I'm I'm sensing in the letters and most academics I talk to
They all agree and concede with me on this point. So
Maybe we have the wrong method as as as he's saying I personally, um
Don't draw those kind of conclusions. I don't want to go to fourth fifth century church
Interpreters to understand first century material
I'm curious to know why they interpret it in the fourth century who what when where why what's the context the culture all of that
That made them interpret this the way I described revelation, right?
Why was the book of revelation then made canonized?
And it wasn't originally many early voices thought a heretic wrote the book of revelation
Irenaeus had friends who were killed in Rome
By the romans under persecution and read in revelation about those beheaded and those who are blood spilt, right the saint's blood spilt
Like this is how he was reading it going. This is talking about my time
So he interpreted this as prophecy about his time in the 180s
Approximately give or take so that became canonized later on
Athanasius and I think Eusebius, but Athanasius was
Allogorizing and and finding ways to push the interpretation further into his own his own way
So I'm trying to get behind the curtain and meet the wizard and say hey paul
What's up, man?
What what are you what are you doing here? Why'd you write this letter to the philippians?
Why'd you write this letter to the romans? I won't know all and I definitely can't even pretend to know that
I'll know all the details, but you wrote words and these words
I think at least can I can I guide myself to understand something here? Can I get close to maybe what you're trying to say?
Can I pick up what you're putting down and I'm trying to do that that was that's my goal
We had that 30 minute talk. Maybe it was an hour the night I called him a year ago
And every time I was shot down on trying to get to knowing what paul's paul meant. What did paul mean?
Well, I'm trying to understand like what is it saying here?
And how does this it doesn't matter what that means and what it says I kept getting shot down
Which is why I postponed
The the interview because I needed to first read the works, but I had so much else on my plate that I was aiming at
you finally got to see an interview with me and dr. Martin and
I even was trying to avoid this
This discussion in terms of that point. I really didn't even want to go back into it, but you super chatters
You forced it and I was like, all right. All right. You know what? Maybe it is important. So everyone watching
Can see how he engages it and the way he communicates it versus how others do
I get what he's trying to say, but I just don't go
That far personally
topic discuss
Gary in the house. By the way, I've got some interviews coming out with Gary
Gary is a direct descendant of um, William Clayton the scribe of joseph smith
and um, we're reading letters from William Clayton
And if I applied the the who knows kind of method and it just is meaning how you interpret it to these letters
I wonder what we've come out with but I think we can read William Clayton's letters in his in his uh biography
I think it is just diary whatever it is and understand like what joseph smith was saying and like issues that were going on
polygamy the whole nine
um, we did this even when we were reading, uh
Gary on video so it applies to what you and me did Gary if you haven't subscribed to topic discuss
I hope you do what do you think paul's intent was and what he meant by in his letters
So what do you write me?
look I
Like we'll look at the scholars the experts who are pauline scholars
And literally try to get the the minds who know the language the letters and such to try and wrestle
And understand what may be the meaning of some terms are
I don't know if we get down into the meaning of the term
We were talking about when it came to same-sex relationships man with man women with women
I don't know who's right on this
I could easily go
Actually, I think that maybe paul's condemning the notion of men with men. There is the hierarchical
Structure of man being on bottom is not a good thing. You got to be on top if you're a man
Well, how do we know that that's the case if we're if we're not reading historical information to know
the practice of the time and such
There's a lot I think going on in paul's letters
Um, what's paul's intent?
Sounds like he's trying to get a community to follow this christ figure
And they are supposed to do it by the numah the spirit of god is supposed to be in them
I think paul in his letters
Based on reading him. He's very mystical. I think this guy's a mystic
I think he's having hallucinatory experiences or something
I once knew a man who went to the third heaven
Like and the way he talks about christ in him
being revealed
Like this guy is a mystic of some sort
And so I imagine he also is apocalyptic in light of some of the near expectations of the coming of the lord on the clouds
Like I think this guy is
Along with second temple judaism and other literature that we're reading john j collins and such
I think he thinks the end of the world in his meaning history is going to end
So there's a lot that sim paul's letters. He's trying to convey love
He he really wants to try and stop the whole urges for sex
And marriage is something where he's like if you have to then do it, but I urge look the end is happening soon
This is something
But there are scholars who read later in his letters. It sounds like he's kind of changing his mind
He still thinks the lord's gonna come but he's like not on the edge of his seat
So when you say
What do you think paul's intent was and what he meant by his letters?
Depends on the letter depends on the part of the letter
Some of these letters seem to be spliced together like the carinthian letters seem to be multiple letters spliced together
Um, he is rebuking it seems he is trying to give corrections to people. I think this is a man
writing to real people
And he's writing cut it out
This is how you should behave
and this is what I think he's trying to do to the carinthian church
and um
Just depends on what letter we're looking at but like galatians. He's oh foolish galatians
That sounds like stuff that we hear other people. Hey you fool. Why'd you do that?
um, and I think he's writing to them to correct
To let him defend himself saying hey my my gospel is the right one
It's not a man pleasing gospel. This is the truth
You don't need to go by law. You don't need to circumcise in order to have christ in fact
You make his his crucifixion all null and void. It's it's no use if you do these things
What that even means is a is a very difficult thing to grasp but
There's so much to paul's letters
There's people who spent their whole lives studying them and they still walk away going. I'm not sure what he meant here
Or I I think this is what he meant there
And I love wrestling with the scholars on this. I love to hear what they have to say
And today you heard one that has a totally different take. It's hard for me to wrap my head around everything that he's saying
But he has a different take
Captain sunshine. I thought this was a great interview. I know others were frustrated, but I really loved it. Look
I I already had this talk a year ago in terms of what you what everybody who might be frustrated
had
So I kind of knew to anticipate that but I also know that he knows history
He knows a lot of historical data and this is one of the things that
I was hoping to get into and we did we got into some of that. How did you think about sex and marriage and
Maybe what paul's meaning by these things
We jump back into leviticus
And get get his take. I know eden dirschowitz has a particular take on some of this stuff if you haven't read that
He thinks there's interpolations in the text and that originally there was more incestual
Commands to not do
Fathers and children and mothers and and sons and things like that
So there might be some stuff there, but uh, I I enjoyed it
I had a good time and I think he was very respectful to me
Even if he was trying to go stop because he disagrees with uh, what i'm asking
But I enjoyed it even though we would disagree
Constellation pegasus in the house good. Thank you for the super chat. This makes no sense
Derek evidently the creator of the universe can't write a book the way he wants it
Is homosexuality good or bad is a basic simple question. No physics or philosophy needed to answer
I understand where you're coming from and I understand where he's coming from
And so I know that people who if the text let's put it this way if the text in leviticus is some
Down derogatory smash of a man
Laying in the bed with a woman or with a man like he does a woman and if that is meaning
Having sex with a man like a woman not on top or bottom, but just mean sex
Then I would say it's a condemnation
Period point blank so it would be against it and there are many
Bible exegetes scholars and such who do take that interpretation
If you get lost into the details of well, it could simply mean on top or bottom
Or it could mean this or that then you might walk away going it's condemning something, but it may not be condemning
homosexuality as this umbrella thing it may be specific
Actions under that umbrella that are condemned and it doesn't mean any and all acts that are particularly as we define it
Or understand it as homosexuality
We get to paul and we understand paul to mean what I just meant about leviticus
And some scholars do try to splice those words together and have that meaning in paul
Then paul is condemning the act in some way
But if we get into the nitty gritty is this a male prostitute?
Is this some younger kid being prostituted out? Is this a top bottom hierarchical issue?
Maybe it could be multiple facets in one. It could just be the act in itself. I don't know
and so it isn't
This is a an interesting point you're trying to get if you're talking to a christian who thinks this is
bi b le
Basic instructions before leaving earth
This tells you the instructions you need to know on how to live your life
It answers all the questions we need to know about life yada yada yada
Well, we just watched an episode where it ain't that simple
And in fact, if you're a christian who takes this like literally you're reading probably a translation
Which they're already doing some interpretation in the process
Uh, I think the king james bible uses the word homosexuality in it
Or at least the new king james can't remember but like they're running around smashing people with this book
And if he's correct that we are absolutely sure what is being meant here
Then like
Why are people using this as a weapon to go smash over people's heads?
And I told him before the stream like I have no
core like look the bible could
Be condemning it not condemning it depending on the passage, but let's just say it did condemn it
What do you do for me? I mean
It's not like
Not the fact that i'm not homosexual, but i'm saying simply put it
I have no
Like I don't need the bible to tell me or be part of my faith or need it for any instructions or anything like that as most christians
Um, and so it wouldn't matter to me and I imagine the same doesn't matter to you constellation
But we do come from a background
That I don't think dr. Martin
I mean he knows of it, but he's like, you know, not really recognizing how that mindset is pushing in until I think I kept
showing him that
that
The bible tells us the answer
And if we look at it as god is giving us the answers we need to know
And it's supposed to be just spelled out clear as day in this book
According to dr. Martin. That's not the case
and um
So to your answer
Does the bible condemn it?
I would say it does the bible teach that god knows all things
Or does the bible teach that god doesn't know all things well with that question
If you asked me that question right because I'm no expert in the language in understanding. What's going on here?
There are simple passages. I would say where god seems to know the end from the beginning
Which implies that they're supposed to be an end at some point
But then there's passages where it's like adam. Where where are you adam?
Oh, I shouldn't have made man
Uh, I'll never I'll never flood the earth again. Like there are passages that seem like god doesn't know all things
What do we do does the bible say god knows all things? Yes. Does the bible say god does not know all things? Yes
Oh, it says both things. So I don't know what to how to answer it
And I think people have meshed multiple texts together
Dan McClellan did a video this morning. There is what's what did he title it? Let me look this up and show you
This is actually an interesting title. It's it was clever of him
to uh
That's all right. Here we go to title it this here we go
Dan McClellan. All right
videos
does
Hold on
Where's it at? There is no god of the bible
He titled it. Maybe we should watch it
Together if that is cool with you real quick here. I want to play that actually if you haven't heard this
We're about to hear it together
Stop sharing share screen
Chrome tab audio here we go
Hey everybody, there is no god of the bible and I don't mean that in some kind of edgelord all gods are fairy tales way
I mean it in the sense that the bible does not present a single
depiction of god it presents numerous different and frequently
contradictory
depictions of god
And so you can't just add them all together and look at the sum and have a fuller picture of god
You just get a tangled paradoxical mess
What you do to get a notion of a god of the bible is negotiate with the text and center and prioritize certain depictions
And then marginalize reinterpret or outright ignore other depictions
And all of this is in the interest of making the text more meaningful
Or more useful for us within a given context or situation, which means
Any god of the bible that we find is a situationally emergent
Negotiated divine profile because the bible is not univocal
It does not speak with a single unified voice and it does not present a single unified idea of god
Hey everybody there you have it so
um
that's
I agree with what he just said um and people do negotiate and usually they
I find christians mostly negotiate with the positive the loving side. They want that more
prettier god
Uh than the uglier
archaic war path god, but imagine if we were in war and actually like like full on the nation
We were in like this post apocalyptic situation where war was the thing you might gravitate toward
I am I am a man of war god
and and ruthless and like
Hard on the enemies the whole nine like and so this is what I imagine how that negotiation might play
I mean, I'm imagining it
Im nag the word dogma triggered him after that. He just shooting everyone down
So I think attached to because everyone has certain dogmas. I would imagine
Um, and he might have his own right that might not like this word here
Uh, but as far as what I think he did by trying to say doctrine
He's trying to take that word dogma and then apply it to doctrine as these are particular teachings that people are
believing
and
I I know that I I I like your word dogma. I mean I listen to sam harris debating um
debating uh
jordan peterson on this and you know, it gets back to this jordan peterson interpretation
when I did a critical response to jordan peterson and and how
He can make anything make mean anything because it's all about the meta narrative and and
He's seeing what he wants to see in this literature without certain methodology
I would say historical critical approaches to understand these texts. Um, you
Like I literally kind of chuckled but like kill every man woman and child
Well, what that means is inside each one of us
there's a man woman and child and
The name for that is a malachite because the meaning of the word malachite means and like
He was asked on the spot like do you believe that jesus resurrected physically from the dead?
And there's like a funny little video on youtube saying it will take me 40 hours to answer that
And I think he actually said that in his correspondence with sam harris about oh, wow
That's such a in such a heavy topic to tackle like it would be so difficult for me to answer this question
And it wouldn't be difficult for me to tell you what I think. No, I don't think he rose from the dead
I think people may have believed he rose from the dead. I would even go so far as to say it might have been part of a legend
Right out the gate and people believe in legends all the time
So there might be some overlap between what people believed and what was the common tradition of people who?
Somehow there's like a porous barrier between death and the living world
So I would just say no, I don't think he literally rose from the dead and it wouldn't take me more than a sentence to answer the question
I understand complexities and nuance and all that but when we get into the like meta narrative world
That really started to make me go anything can mean anything then
hate means love up means down in means out
And like where where we draw that line on how we know what stuff means
We have to try and use rigorous methodology to try and do that
Yet we may still never know exactly what is implied or meant by certain things. So
Anyway, I did see that he was like, yo, yo, no dogma
I'd rather use doctrine, but I didn't seem to get as triggered as I thought he was when we kept talking about the bible speaking
And he had a reaction to that that he was not a fan of right
He's not a fan of us saying the bible says or the bible speaks or this is what the bible means because
There's always negotiation and in some way. I know that I have certain bias. I have certain
Filters through which when I'm looking at these texts and maybe I'm not there
living in that context
To know what actually is meant by some of this, but I think we can get close
I don't want to pretend that we can't achieve something and trying to understand
And we have to do it with a lot of data
archaeology
social construct
Really studying multiple things to try and get down to
Maybe what is implied or meant in certain texts
My thoughts so constellation pegasus got
Getting to the bottom of particle wave duality seems to be easier than bible interruption
interruption
I think you mean bible interpretation, but
yeah, like
Which one's easier to get to the bottom of well
I I don't know because I don't know particle wave duality
but
I'm gonna say this there's some things we just don't understand and that's a reason why there's debates and scholars debate
passages and it's endless
Because we don't have paul to interview. Hey paul. What did you mean? But imagine paul shows up in my studio?
All right, sit down, buddy. Hey necromancer. Thanks for bringing the guy back because he wasn't gonna rise from the dead
Anyway, till you brought him back anyway paul's here. So paul, we're gonna ask you paul
paul, what did you mean when you said this word in romans chapter one?
People are using it to say that these people should be condemned their reprobates
And we have the category called homosexuality. Yeah, yeah, what do you mean? And paul goes
You know
I forget what I meant in that context actually
I don't know or maybe he has a certain thing he meant and we don't really know
Um, but memory right like what if he forgot exactly what he meant when he wrote these letters?
Don't know don't know tough to do right, but I think there's some things that
We can pretty much have good confidence in and knowing what they probably meant in their context
my thoughts again, um, some of you might actually side with
what was being said by um, dr martin and
To each their own. I just don't I don't go that far
Look at the flowing live derrick out here. We get it like us. We teach myth vision
Jay good to see you here. Go subscribe to jay. Jay's doing a lot of good stuff and I'm hoping to get uh, he's two-time phd
I'm hoping to get a course or two with him
Sex and evolution and then uh, can't remember the name of the other one. We're planning on doing
Greg Royce Royce Royce
Forgive me if I butcher that
Yell open courses martin new testament and haze old testament sparked my passion
Biblical scholarship led me to myth vision
Great interview and I think the clip better articulates martin's point get dr haze on myth vision. She's good. Yes. She is
I've been emailing her for over two and a half years
And I have had her respond twice
out of dozens
I'd say at least
Probably 20 emails over two and a half years that I've tried to
Get her to to come on to do interviews. She is one of the hardest ones that I've had a difficulty
I mean, I've had a lane pagals on barred airmen the like upper echelon of like what people say are the most popular scholars and
Um, she has been very difficult to get on. I have loved her series
What's so divine about divine law to her yell series where she's lecturing
I've read some of her works on academia and her book
Really diving into the whole goi goi im thing and the birth of the nations all that stuff. I love all of it
I'd love to get her on but i'm trying my best greg so bear with me
I hope she'll she'll respond and i'll keep trying to remember to email her because after a while
you kind of
Get discouraged and just forget about emailing her
But she was going through tough times when coveted because her husband got coveted and he was in the hospital
We talked on the phone that one time, but uh, I have her colleagues that are friends of mine
Who are putting bugs in her ear about me and what we're doing here at myth vision to interview her
But I really she is like when she speaks it's like
this this is good. This is really educated work and um
I really appreciate the super chat. So yeah, the yell open courses
We have courses to greg that we're doing we've got four out right now
I'm finishing editing denis mcdonald's course, which is all about
every bit of denis's work mainly on memesis
And uh, we structured it around this book. Then I have kip davis
Then I have two courses with robin faith walsh all of that is
pinned in the chat
So go check out the website and sign up for a course
Be on the email list so that we have more stuff coming for you and there'll be discounts for those who purchased course for
Future and past course and stuff that are coming. Anyway
Scrolling down constellation in the house again. Thank you so much for the support
Endless debates seems like the perfect words to describe this episode and bible. It's perfect
So constellation, I think you and me i'm speaking to you. I think you'll understand maybe appreciate my point of view here
Uh, maybe someone disagrees in the chat. That's fine. Let me know if you do in fact
I'm gonna say it and then type one if you agree or disagree
Two if you disagree one if you agree for me
The fact that this is so vague and open. I don't
I understand it's become a piece of art
But because we can't really get to the bottom of like a lot of things that are meant here
And this is supposed to be a message
To us
About what god has to say and when I see what I would call interruptions when I said to to john collins
Look at what god is saying in this text because it says thus sayeth the lord
So god is speaking in this text on this paper
And he's saying some really nasty nasty things about israel and our sins and uses sexual violent language
To do so etc etc. This is a god. I don't believe in and I think this is a man who's saying that god
He's writing saying this is what god is saying
I
Think this is a product of man
Over and over and over if god really wanted me to know something then god
Himself or herself or itself would make sure that it it was the one trying to tell me this
So the bible is only like
Getting in the way of that and this is why I tell christians who go you hold on you've read your new testament
And it tells you he rose from the dead and they saw him rose and they put the fingers in the side and
Oh my god, and paul says he was risen if he wasn't risen. We're all stuck in our sands and
How do you not read that and believe and it's like
This is a book an ancient book like I don't trust that this is true
Just like I don't think romulus ascended into heaven. I don't believe that uh,
Skeppius was killing people and raising them from the dead. I don't believe that that's true
I don't think that actually happened. I don't believe it
And until I had some other
Revelation take place to convince me
Then I don't think anybody reading an ancient book by men who are writing this material
Should literally believe this is true
That's my thoughts
And I hope that that message has come come across clear
I do not want to disrespect people who believe this material
However, I am critical when people are using it as a weapon to go around saying are you dumb?
Have you not just read the words that are in the bible? It's clear he rose from the dead
It tells you in the text when you're reading this text
Anyway, you get the point. I think you agree with me constellation. Let me know if you if you do or don't
I'm scrolling down. I'm seeing if I've got people who are in support of what I'm trying to say here
Okay, um
420 junior man says one. Oh constellation does agree with me on this. Okay, so we're on the same
You're picking up what I'm putting down here
John D. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate that. Um, there's no evidence to think it's more than human
That's what I think as well. William Arons. Thank you so much for that. Uh, that one
constellation again forgery is also
One times 10
Thank you so much and um
Gollum, I'm just hoping I'm saying that right was one. I agree far side says yes
So we have a one point. We have to have a contrarian in the house a 1.5, right?
So I'm not doing math here everybody. You're gonna trip me up here. It's been too long
Constellation again is like I'm gonna repeat this. Um far side is 2 minus 1 which is 1. Thank you so much
You guys are gonna screw me up. You're gonna catch my ignorance. I haven't done math since like serious
Since high school honestly like serious math. I did a little bit. We dabbled in it when we got into when I was going to the christian college, but
it was like
calculus pre-calculus work at the end of my high school and then from there it was like
I killed a lot of brain cells over the years after that as well
But I think it's more about like practicing when it comes to mathematics. Anyway, we're getting off track
Lynn says one
Someone's in the mood
With that 69 and and then someone's in the mood with that 420
Greg Royce now it's watched you one year now
Love myth vision myth vision is my first ever patreon membership. Thank you so much really appreciate that
Bible is not monolithic
Agreed not one book agreed
I think martin recognizes that and that is so let's not throw the baby out with the bath water here
I did a course edited the course for bart airman bart airman did a course on genesis
and he said
You want to know what the greatest discovery in the past few centuries is I think past century or few centuries
He says it's not the Dead Sea Scrolls. It's not Nakamati. It's not this or that manuscript. We discovered
it he says it's
Recognizing and realizing the bible is not one book
It is so many voices with so many different people who disagree who contradict who aren't on the same page
We're talking about different things and their portrayals their perceptions of the god
And if their perceptions of god are subjective based on their social environmental
cultural
historical context
And then the next guy's perception of god is different then why are we trusting this book? This is I think
Dr. Martin would agree with me and us in this like
Why are we trusting this guy to have the accurate perception?
Which is why he says the bible alone like no christianity is all about interpretation and it's about how meaning is understood to them
Maybe they are reading some of the bible, but they're not relying on it solely
Which is why I think Protestants came in and went to we need to get back to the book
We need to get back to the text
And then they ran into problems over the next two three centuries and realizing. Oh my god. There's problems with the text
There's real problems with this book
So i'm with you greg
And I think martin recognizes that as well. So we have common ground
I just he admitted even in the interview if you go back he says well, I go
Further way further than john con's radical compared to some of these scholars who are doing different things
And maybe he's justified. Maybe i'm wrong at the end of the day martin's right. I just personally can't
I just don't
I think he goes too far
My thoughts
Who knows seed seed of iblis. Thank you for the one in the hizzy
William with the one zero one zero one zero
You were afraid to say my name because I hate butchering names man. Put me on the spot
Is it golland?
Get i'm i'm gonna mess something up
Uh clive says they totally agree with me. Thank you. Thank you
Yeah, I've been out of practice with math for a long time
scrolling down here scrolling down here
so, um
Don't miss anybody here
Anyway, all right, I didn't see anything specific. So there you have it. Uh, did I miss anybody? I hope I didn't
Greg thank you for that. I hope everybody enjoyed it. I thought it was very educational
There's a lot of good stuff that was in this episode
at the end of the day
Lower your confidence in thinking you know what the bible says on so many points
uh for those who use it as a weapon and um
And understand there are various ways to come at things and try to understand the nuance of text
Which makes it more complicated not so simple
But anyway, thank you so much
Everybody. I really appreciate you hit the like button share it again. Didn't I already mentioned?
We've got the courses and stuff
We'll pop that up here
I'm working hard. I just did a video with Richard Carrier. I'm working really hard. We did a course. I mean
um view all courses
So
And I put a lot of time and energy and I've got courses literally right now in the the queue
Dennis is almost done with his mimesis
Kip Davis on ancient israelite religions almost done that won't take me too long to edit
I have two courses with robin faith walsh. I've got stuff coming up. So new testament studies for everyone
We've got this course out right now early bird special jump on it and then eventually we'll do q&a
The mark course if you haven't done that, I mean all of these courses are really really high quality
The historical jesus quest this one is not about making a case for jesus historically
This is the history of scholarship from the protestant reformation. It literally dabbles into
What we did today even with this whole interpreting thing
Because he goes and shows you how
Protestant scholars and exegetes throughout time were starting to realize problems with the new testament. They started going. This is mythology
talking about
david fridrich Strauss
Like he interprets a lot of the new testament as mythology
But it has meaning it carries meaning
But it didn't literally happen. It did not happen historically and then you have rationalists who came on the scene and were like no
No, no, no, no, Jesus walked on water because he was actually walking toward the shore
So it looked like he was on water. So the person writing it made it sound like he was actually walking on water
But really he was just on the really the sand or the the shore of that lake
So it looked like he was what?
The list goes on but all of the historical people to play a role going down to e p sanders john domino crossin
And then we have ancient creek mystery cults
Seven lectures here the seventh lecture is about the language of paul where it's mysterious language
mystery cult type language
And he kind of does a little bit of comparing but doesn't want you to try and act like
Early christianity must have been a mystery cult
But uh, if he is going to these other people who are participants in other mystery religions
Then he's gonna he's gonna talk like them. He's probably gonna use language similar to the cults. He's trying to uh
Get people out of
To come to the christ cult
we have the patreon
and
I think that was pretty much it
All right back to you for a second here constellation never gives up never
Evidently we have text that continues before and after the flood
Without an interruption proving the flood bogus enough said
There's a lot of ways to approach this issue and realize that we're talking about mythology or
As many christians want to say it's a localized
flood it's only in this region
There's problems with that as well. It never ends
never ends
so
Everybody man. Thank you for being in the chat miss j being a member and being in the chat james apperson go subscribe
And he's a member. Thank you so much shout out to constellation for keeping it locked down later everyone
I really appreciate y'all
Okay
I'm getting out of here. I'm gonna go get some food
I've been having fun hanging out with you. I hope that you
Didn't mind me hanging out after the stream to discuss that with you a little further
And uh to rabbit trail goodness gracious before I go to exit the door. Someone drops a super william rns. Thank you
The important thing is not how timeless and unchanging the bible could be but rather could
Bible be interpreted in a way that helps people today
I think it can but it's like
Do we need it and this is the thing I disagreed with john dominacrossan on he thinks we need this tradition
Because without tradition we have nothing to stand on
I think we can create our own if people were willing and able to write this book and I would say it's man made
Then we could write our own structures. You have humanist societies. You have others who are rewriting their own myth their own legends their own
story with
Up-to-date ethics and I would even go so far as to say not only up-to-date ethics or better ethical
approaches
To to the world around us the way we saw yesterday
Jesus seems to in these texts of the gospels engaging with the model of slavery as if it is normal and does not condemn it
Can we not write things that help better guide us and give us something motivating?
We see movies with mythology that are legendary that are
That are mythological in nature that give us inspiration on how to behave how to act
Why can't we do that? Do we need this?
to to model our life after or can we not read this as
artistic
as as
History as something to say this was what we thought then
But here's now what we think today
That's my only thing. I understand christians do this because this is what they do
They renegotiate with their contemporary ethics and
Situations and we all do it, but I don't know if we need it
And that's the thing i'm trying to well. I don't not know. I really don't think we need it
Um, and i'm trying to convey that with my own life
With somebody who made it out of addiction without needing god or christianity
Is is living a life, you know, i'm a better person today than I ever was as a christian
So that's my only my only point
And I don't want to go at people who are renegotiating the meaning of the text and are all against the bad ideas that we do talk about
We find that seems to be conveyed in this literature
I'm with the people who are ethically on the same page
Even though they may believe and I don't it's the people who are actually trying to say the bible doesn't do these things
And are weaponizing it you need to believe you're going to hell if you don't believe this you're going to go to hell or
You get the point they use it as a as a as a weapon. So
Anyway, that's my ted talk. Thank you, william arans. Love you. Thank you for always showing up in the chat and william
I don't want to put words in your mouth
But I know that you come from a tradition a believing tradition, but you have shown such maturity
I think you're also a patron of mine. I've seen you around and
That's something that I do think we want to do here at myth vision
And we don't want to just smash any and everyone in the path of saying we don't think these are true
You know, I don't um
In the literal sense like this really happened
You can find meaning in this stuff, but you know, I I also
Do have an agenda to help get people out of fundamentalism
Come on stop hitting people in the head with that book
But thank you, william appreciate your support and always showing up
All right, am I out of here?
Myth vision saved my soul. Greg said
Well, I do have the mystery and anyone who's joined us who supports us likes the video shares
You're all part of the body of myth vision hallelujah. Really appreciate you. Thank you. Thank you so much
I'm gonna do my little matrix outro
um
tomorrow
Let me let me give you my calendar while we're at it tomorrow dr. Matthew monger
I am actually doing a stream with him and he was a missionary in Africa
And it went down wait till you hear what happened. We're talking about life and death
serious stuff happened, but he ended up
You know leaving christianity and is a bible scholar who knows too much
It says it in the description once that streams over we're gonna funnel over to his channel to watch his first video
He started a youtube channel. Stay tuned. That's tomorrow my wonderful queen
Queen the queen of myth vision. It's her birthday on the 17th saint patrick's day
Is my wife's birthday and i'm gonna be taking
Those days friday saturday and sunday off to spend time with her and the family
Next week. I have x pastor
uh current um
Think it's a life coach and porn star
Nicole mitchell coming on next week. We're gonna get down in some nitty gritty. Mm-hmm
It's going down next week. So stay tuned. That's tuesday. I haven't set up the stream yet, but it will be set up
Karen de la carrière is coming up again. Uh, she's an x Scientologist. She was at the top
married to the president of
the Scientology
Hubert jensen something like that
um james crossley his new books coming up next thursday on the 23rd
I have in person
um
matthew harky who has done a lot of the stuff on apocalypticism
He's coming to my house on the 25th
and then i'm doing something with jacob bermann on the 27th on his channel and uh
We're doing also a live stream with neil denis and um
The starter of the greek website neil knows gnostic informant can tell you better than i can
In april dan mclellan i'm having him back on we're going to be doing that on the 7th
There's a preterism debate. We're doing full preterism versus someone who thinks jesus felled on the 12th
Which you've never seen that happen full preterist always usually debate other christians within like different camps of
eschatology
And then richard c miller and making a trip down to california on the 28th through the 30th
To the first um to do in-person interviews with him
He wrote a book called resurrection and reception and early christianity
He thinks and his whole book brings up the case that the resurrection the eyewitness testimony from first carinthians
From the early church fathers in the gospels is all legendary
Stay tuned and this is a
critical scholar
And then we have more courses coming up with james d. Tabor
James
I thought i said d james tabor. I don't know why we went a little dyslexic for a second there in may early may
We're recording. We're probably gonna do two or three courses
One is jesus and the dead sea scrolls the other is who and what is the life of the apostle paul
Which um he has written many books on and then of course
What was the last one he wrote me on this this morning?
He said um
He said
So all right paul paul course and jesus and the dead sea scrolls and maybe apocalypticism through the ages
And why prophecy fails?
So he's gonna get into that it's like just
Over over there's a hundred percent track record that apocalypticism fails. We're gonna get into that three courses
There you have it. All right
All right in case i miss just scrolling up making sure i don't leave nobody hanging everybody
Good we're good. Okay. There you have it be on the lookout. Love you. I'm gonna go eat never forget
We are
myth vision
Son do you want to know what the truth is?
After this there's no turning back
You take the blue pill and you wake up in your bed and believe whatever you want to
You take the red pill and you stay in wonderland
And I show you just how deep the rabbit hole goes
Remember all i'm offering is the truth nothing more
Oh
Oh
