I was born into a cave with the best mother a human can ask for, and a badass alpha father who
graduated from rangers school to become an elite soldier in the army special forces.
Both parents were of the christian persuasion, though mom was far more involved with her childhood
faith. I recall once as a child a spiritual guru at a local flea market claiming to know
everything about my mom. He claimed he was hit by a car and died, but was brought back to this world
by the divine with the gift of being able to know people's futures and pasts. My mother's future
could be revealed along with the gift of a crystal stone for a few dollars. This guru impressed my
mother enough to have her in tears and as a child no older than 12 years of age it would be an
understatement to say that I wasn't terrified. That experience was one of several shadows
on the wall of my memories which set me up for the unseen realm.
Life at home wasn't the easiest with such an extreme soldier father as an alcoholic.
Don't get me wrong I had some of the best memories a mortal human can have in this world,
but I know hurt, I know pain, I know suffering inside and out. My mother and father loved hard
but they also fought harder. Verbal abuse was sometimes a daily routine with my parents.
My younger brother Kurt and I were usually in our own world playing with toys, eventually
upgrading through the years to Nintendo and Super Nintendo. My father was always my hero,
no matter how many times he would fall off his metaphorical throne due to vodka. I even wrote
my senior project in high school about my father being my hero, but let's back up to me in sixth
grade at Cornerstone Christian Academy. The pastor that day had a message just for me.
He spoke about a father who knows all things, who loved me unconditionally and would never let
me down. This father wasn't like my earthly one. This father was perfect and cared so much he
sent his only begotten son to earth to suffer for me so that I would be able to live in this other
realm called heaven. And overwhelmed by this message of love, I went down, I walked down to
that altar to commit my life to this father and believe in his son. That was a memory and experience.
That never left me. You see, when my father would travel to South America to help free
the oppressed or enter a war zone for a year at a time, my brother and I, young little boys,
would sleep with their mother, my mom. We were all we had when dad left. Mom would tell us about
when she was a child that this old boogie man demon that she said was named Old Man Haggard would
terrify her for years in her closet. He would come out and scare her. One day or one night,
they made a truce that Haggard would never bother her again. Some night as we went to sleep, mom
would act like she was seeing something and we kids would freak out. I mean, really, this is an
understatement about how freaked out we were. All of these experiences left a permanent imprint
into our brains of this shadow illusion. As a young Christian, I would dive deep into my faith
which gave me comfort when dad would fall off of the wagon or if any other traumatic event happened.
I had an inner voice, inner peace, if you will, that I could talk to and listen to. At times when
I would doubt, I would say to my Heavenly Father, no matter how far I go away from you or ever go
away from you, please always bring me back to you. And see, my behavior in life wasn't the greatest.
It seemed that my earthly father's influence environmentally and genetically had some play
in shaping the person I was to be. Several years followed in my life where I would read my Bible
devoutly and along the way I would struggle with puberty issues of sex and pornography. Sexual
desires were impossible to pray away. Since I spent several years getting prayed over as a youth
in church services trying to cast out that demon or spirit of lust, I would occasionally find a
deep interest in girlfriends and was sexually active. I was in Puerto Rico at this time and also
while I was in Puerto Rico, I drank my first taste of hard liquor. When I gulped that double shot
down, I was vaguely reminded of that warm cozy confidence I experienced when I was at the Jesus
altar in sixth grade. The feeling was so euphoric that I would spend the next 15 years of my life
trying to find that sense of comfort through whatever means. This experience would be found
in the love of my wonderful wife, Ryan. Through the love of my children as they came to this world,
it would be found in Jesus, Bible study, worship music. It would be found in smoking marijuana,
ecstasy, alcohol, painkillers, opiates, heroin, testosterone, and any other experiences,
whether it's good music or you name it, I would search to try and find that experience.
To give you a glimpse, I was visiting Alcoholics Anonymous before I was legally able to drink
in America. All I ever wanted was comfort and my life was never really balanced. I would ask
myself, are you insane? Maybe I'm permanently too far gone. My process exiting the cave,
Plato's Cave, if you want to take an analogy, and questioning its shadows took me several years.
The division among the faithful and their theological differences led me to investigate
who was correct. This would mean I needed to study as many different ideas of Christianity
and see which one best matched what the Bible seemed to say.
Remember my experience in the sixth grade was artificially attributed to this perfect God
and his perfect word which will never pass away. Along this road, I found myself ever
shifting from one idea to the next. I was so serious about this that if I believed a certain
group was correct on a teaching, I would identify with this and spend several hours every night
debating other Christians online to try convincing them of the true teachings of God's word.
If you've ever watched the Left Behind movie series, I know it's funny, but this was my eschatology
for several years before I took it serious and actually dug deep. I had horrific dreams about
the rapture, one with fire ending it all, and another lightning bolt struck me and sucked me
into heaven where the saints floating up with me had lightning bolts attached to them in their
solar plexus. And each time I had these dreams I woke with tear-filled eyes and more motivation
to save others from the fiery hell that awaits all ungodly people. You see, my theological paradigm
wasn't based on predestination yet, but eventually I was stuck having to swallow that pill of
Calvinistic thinking due to clear passages in Paul's letters that were hard to swallow.
I was at Calvary Chapel Church service one day when I heard the pastor give a sermon mentioning
that scene in John's Gospel where Jesus said tear down this temple and I will rebuild it in three
days. The pastor off the top of his mind misquoted Jews in that passage saying it took us 40 years
to build this temple. I knew exactly how many years it says, 46, but I felt that maybe my calling
was to teach because of this mistake and so I might be the pastor of a flock in the future.
And my interest of truth and accuracy led me to think that that day the pastor encouraged me to
go to the local Carolina Bible College to start my journey to become a pastor. I did just that
and spent several years at that college. I find out that that pastor later on at Calvary Chapel
was found sleeping with many female members of the congregation and his wife found out about it.
And in fact, it was so devastating that he was relieved of his position and we're not even sure
if the marriage worked between him and his wife. But in a position of power that really made me
think, do I want to go down this path? Do I really want to investigate going and becoming a pastor?
Because I knew my own falls and my own possible shortcomings when it came to lust and such.
Did I want to have that happen to my own family? The straw that broke the camel's back was my study
into eschatology, the study of last things. You see, Jesus said some things in those Gospels we
read that either happened or didn't. And if he didn't, if it didn't happen, then he failed as an
apocalyptic prophet. I jumped on the full preterist bandwagon for several years because I couldn't
see Jesus as that failed apocalyptic prophet. This doctrine put me at odds with my now Presbyterian
PCA church in my life where I was a full blown member. I was corrected by five elders in what
seemed to be a court hearing at that church, which was condemning full preterism as absolute heresy.
Experiencing that kind of trauma and intensity led me to stop attendance and my wife and I
were excommunicated. Just a few more years and I stumbled into a friend named Mark, I can't tell
you his last name, who had a similar path to full preterism, but Mark was no longer a believer.
He was an atheist and my honest thoughts in my mind were not to believe everything this guy
told me because he was an atheist. When he would share these comparative mythological ideas or
interesting non-literal interpretations of God's word to me, it was pretty shocking. This is what
led me to start seeing other myths, legends, and stories somewhere around this time in my life.
I was just getting clean off of heroin and I know it's crazy, I know it's crazy,
but Mark played a significant role. My God began to get bigger, meaning not so narrow
on Jesus only. The shadows I thought were real started to become clear illusions because people
in my life were pointing them out. My wife for over a decade has been telling me a sobering
conclusion about the Bible. She would say, Derek, men wrote that book. Wow, was she right?
I was starting to think God was bigger than just Christianity or the Bible because I could see
comparisons between stories and myths. I thought God was working in all world religions. It was
like I was almost out of the cave to be completely free. All of this was happening as I was just
getting clean for my last time using heroin, which is a whole long rabbit trail story of pain and
misery. But it helped me to see things. That wise poem by John Godfrey Sachs, the blind men
and the elephant, really struck a chord quoting John Godfrey Sachs.
It was six men of Hindustan to learning much inclined who went to see the elephant,
though all of them were blind, that each by observation might satisfy the mind.
The first approach the elephant and happening to fall against his broad and sturdy side at
once began to ball. Bless me, it seems the elephant is very like a wall.
The second filling of his tusk cried, Oh, what have we here? So very round and smooth and sharp,
to me, tis mighty clear. This wonder of an elephant is very like a spear. The third approached the
animal and happening to take the squirming trunk within his hands, thus boldly up and spake.
I see, quote he, the elephant is very like a snake. The fourth reached out an eager hand and fell
about the knee. What most this wondrous beast is like is mighty plain, quote he, tis clear enough
the elephant is very like a tree. The fifth, who chanced to touch the ear, said, I am the blindest
man, can tell what this resembles most, deny the fact who can. This marvel of an elephant is very
like a fan. The six no sooner had begun about the beast to grow, then seizing on the swinging
tail that fell within his scope. I see, quote he, the elephant is very like a rope. And so these
men of Hindustan disputing loud and long, in each his own opinion exceeding stiff and strong,
though each was partly in the right, and all were in the wrong. So often theologic wars,
the disputants, I wean, rel on in utter ignorance of what each other mean, and prayed about an
elephant, not one of them has seen. If I was ever going to exit the cave, I needed to concede that
I don't know. I'm not sure. I sincerely wondered if the elephant existed since no one had ever seen
it. They all say they felt it, they've touched it, but none of them had actually seen it nor
really knew what they were talking about. Around this time I started to really see that evolution
made the most sense of our story as humans. And this sent chills to my core because it really
made me think. How do we know for a fact? What is fact from illusion? My epistemology changed.
I needed to have solid data based on testable observable data before I would believe something
was true, especially when you've been kind of convinced things that aren't true anymore in your
mind. I had always believed in demons, gods, ghosts, etc., with no natural testable data
to know they existed. I realized after leaving the cave that there was no difference between an
abstract force or a being called God and the natural world. It was continuous study of gods
and God which led me to see gods are made in our image and seem to be a natural leap
for our evolutionary process. Let me show you examples of how the brain works. This illusion
created by the artist Victoria Sky was one of the top entries in the 2017 best illusion of the
year contest. Believe it or not, the horizontal lines are all perfectly parallel. To prove this
to yourself, just squint at the image or look at it from the side. They're actually parallel.
Isn't that interesting? And if you notice, even after you're completely convinced that the lines
are parallel, the illusion continues to work. Perception is largely involuntary and in many
ways is walled off from our abstract knowledge of the world. Confetti. This one's a variation on
the Monker illusion created by David Novick. The circles in the image are actually all the same
color. The only thing that differs is the color of the lines around them. The illusion is a vivid
demonstration of the fact that we don't directly perceive the colors of objects in the world.
Instead, the perceptual system takes an educated guess based on the objects surrounding the rice
wave illusion. This might look like an animated GIF or video, but it's not. The movement is all
in your head. The shading and consequencing of the yellow blobs triggers the motion areas of the
brain, creating a perception of movement in a stimulus that's actually static. Interestingly,
around 5% of people seem to be immune to this illusion. The tilted road illusion. This looks
like two photos of the same road taken from different angles, but it's actually just the same photo
twice. Apparently, the visual system treats the image as if it were a single photo of two separate
roads. The outlines of the two roads are parallel to one another in the two-dimensional image. For
that to be the case in the image, the actual road in the real world would have been angling
strongly away from each other, so that's what the visual system infers. The dynamic ebbing huss.
Another award-winning illusion, the orange circle, doesn't actually change size. As with color and
lightness, we don't directly perceive the size of objects. The perceptual system makes an inference
about their size based on clues and in our sense data, including the relative size of other nearby
objects. The train illusion. You can make the train change direction with the power of your mind,
and you can get better at it with practice. Perception always involves going beyond the
evidence of the senses. In this case, the evidence is relatively sparse, such that there are two
plausible interpretations. The train is coming, or the train is going. We can choose to see it
either way. Our perception is prone to error and illusions are proof of that, but illusions can be
broken. They can. For example, we can slowly and carefully reread the words on the mug to convince
ourselves that we read it incorrectly the first time. One reason our perception is prone to errors
that the brain takes shortcuts in the way it makes sense of incoming information. Normally,
these shortcuts work well and improve our performance, but when they don't work well, an
illusion happens. Another reason our perception is prone to errors that perception comes not only
from sensory input, but also from what the brain expects. Here's an example. Some of you will
recognize this as Margaret Thatcher. If you look carefully, you might notice some slight differences
between these images, but overall they seem very similar, and that's the illusion. Here's what
they really look like. The only difference here is that the eye and mouth have been turned upside
down in the image on the left, but that's enough to make her a hideous ghoul. But we can only see
her ghoulishness if the image is right side up. That's because the brain expects faces to be upright,
which is how we almost always see faces. By making this assumption, the brain can be much
better at reading facial expressions, but it completely fails at this if the face is upside
down. Again, the important lesson here is that the perception comes partly from what the brain
expects, and this insight applies to our perception of God. Professor John Wothy is a guest on my
show, emphasizes this point. He argues that the brain expects two distinct and contradictory kinds
of gods, one cruel and punishing, the other unconditionally loving, and most believers
don't even notice the contradictions. As E. O. Wilson explains, the cruel and punishing God
has deep evolutionary roots. Quote, true to their primate heritage, people are easily seduced by
confident charismatic leaders, especially males. That predisposition is strongest in religious
organizations, cults form around such leaders. Their power grows if they can persuasively
claim special access to the supremely dominant, typically male figure of God. The brain expects
this kind of group leader, and that expectation makes it easy to believe in a cruel and judgmental
God. But Professor Wothy is more interested in the unconditionally loving side of God,
and he suggests that a newborn infant has an innate neural model of its mother. In other words,
the infant's brain expects that the mother exists, that she has a face and a feminine voice, provides
warmth and nourishment and responds to crying. Sound familiar? The existence of this model in the
brain of an adult can give rise to the illusory feeling of a loving presence, warm, comforting,
especially under conditions that mimic the helplessness of infancy. This is why so many
believers claim to feel God's presence. But if Dr. Wothy is right, it's an illusion caused by the
brain's expectations, and I think he's onto something. My own experience tells me Dr. Wothy
is touching something that is deep in all of us. So in conclusion, I left the Cave of Ignorance,
which tells you the shadows on the wall are reality. I found myself. I really have, I think. I do
spend my days trying to help others leave that cave because there has been such freedom from this
discovery. Let's encourage evidence-based epistemological conclusions and be critical
of claims which seem to defy this realm, which I'm calling shadows on the wall,
that supernatural unseen realm. You really need better data to draw those conclusions. My experiences
were always real. This is something that I take with me. But what I attributed those experiences
to, those were illusions. The love I felt for my mother, the hero figure, my father, and the
experiences I had are real. It's just one small leap to attribute those to an unseen father,
to an unseen mother, to gods, to demons, to ghosts. And I think today we should exit the cave. I don't
think that that model's needed when we have real loved ones we should latch on to and apply to
real things in the world. But you can see that leap taking place just by a little more research.
Here's Derek Lambert and my ex-hitting the cave.
