Dr. Richard Carrier, I have an anonymous supporter who does not like to be mentioned or known to
the world. He is part of my mystery cult and you have to gain initiation.
Yeah, a certain level of initiation, not even basic.
Yeah, you got to really pay those indulgences to make it in there. So two questions.
What are the Pseudo-Clementine writings, specifically the homilies and the recognitions?
Do they provide much evidence about the Jewish Christians who refuse to follow Paul's teachings?
Okay, I can't really answer this well. The reason being is that when I looked into this literature
and discovered that it's all late and forged, I just didn't use it. So I haven't really
extensively studied the scholarship on this. So for first Clement, for example,
I think is an authentic letter written before the Jewish war. But now there's other letters
by Clement that are forgeries. They're written in a different style. They're not going to say
off there and they're written long, long later. And yes, then there's these really weird long
homilies and recognitions and things like that have a lot of strange statements. And the problem is
these are really hard to date and they're really hard to source. Like what sources are they using?
So it's really hard to figure out the answer to this question. Now, whether it's possible for
a scholar to go in and dig and like come up with something solid, I can't answer that because
when I looked at it and saw how messed up it was and how unreliable it was as a source,
I chose not to use it. So I've not dived into that literature. There probably are other
scholars who have and it'd be interesting if you could find one of them and get them on your show
to talk about it because a lot of people don't know about this literature because it is some of
the weirdest Christian literature there is. And it has a lot of strange things in it. So if there
are any scholars who actually specialize in it, like PhDs who've done it, I guarantee you they will
make a good interview because there is some fascinating strange stuff in this. And then they
could probably answer a question like this more competently than I can. That's what I want. I want
to get someone who specializes in it. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And it's like I've heard that there's like
polemics invented narratives of like Peter arguing with Paul pretty much saying, dude, you had a
bit. Now, this shows you it's late in the game as well. Well, there's a lot of stuff about Simon
Magus and the the, you know, there's different weird sects. That's another thing is we get
information from the Clementines about supposedly these other Jewish sects that might even intersect
with the earlier question we were talking about about the other Jesus cults, but it's vague,
it's poorly sourced. It's not a reliable source. It's late. So it's a mess. It's vexed. And so I
I have avoided this as a subject of study. So I would be interested in hearing an interview of
someone who's done the opposite and dove in and like made it their specialty. Well, maybe we
can make that happen here. I hope to, you know, find them also did this group who believed in
adoption and adoptionism have a better insight on who Jesus really was since it appears some of
them actually knew him while he was alive and heard him preach. Yeah, I don't believe any of
those stories. So that's all like late legend stuff. And adoptionism specifically like the
specific dispute like called adoptionism that actually caused an issue is also late, right?
So we're talking after the second century even. So we're already like so far removed from the
origins of Christianity. And when you look at authors who claim to be like trying to dig at
the origins of Christianity at their own history, Papias, even Eusebius, when you look at Eusebius,
like, they have no information, like there's nothing like, I don't know why this is the case,
or that there's no like, they have no archives, there's like no data that they have. And all
they're doing is like repeating weird rumors and stuff. So, so no, I don't think the adoptionists
knew anything like that. What the adoptionists were doing eventually is taking the text literally
as they were written. And if you read Mark, like Mark is totally adoptionist in the sense that
Jesus only technically becomes the son of God at the moment that God says, I'm adopting you.
That's Mark's version. Now, Mark is writing, he doesn't want you to take it literally, right?
So what he's writing doesn't necessarily mean that's what he believes. So for instance, the
baptism seen in Mark is just an etiological myth for baptism for Christians. So Jesus undergoes
baptism to be adopted by God, because that's what Christians do, right? So it's just a symbol of that.
Whether Mark had the metaphysical belief that this is the only moment when Jesus became the son of
God, that's a much harder question to answer, because that's not how Mark is writing. When you
look at Paul, clearly he does believe that Jesus is, in some sense, always has been the firstborn
son of God. But something important happened when he went through this ordeal. And the ordeal kind
of reverses the ordeal of Satan, where Satan wants to claim the power of God and then he becomes
fallen. God gives the ward heaven, etc. Jesus refuses to claim the power of God, descends into the
lowest possible depths as possible, and dies and self-sacrifices and all of that, and then gets
exalted. Is the exaltation a return to a previous status, or is it an exaltation to a higher status?
That is hard to answer, because it's not like it's one of those questions where the way they
write is very vague about this. And you want to just like ask them for clarification, but unfortunately
we can't do that. Bart tries to say that he was above, like the language in the Greek in
Philippians. He says, of course, the pre-existence is there, and that's his, he accepts that for
well. But then he says, like, then he was made higher than he was. And you can get a hint of
this in 1 Corinthians 15, where when Paul goes into like, like how God gives Jesus all these
powers until everything is finished, and then Jesus is going to merge back with God, right? So
there's a real hint there of the Jewish belief in the emanations, right? So the archangels are
actually like, they were parts of God, and then God like emanated them. And so they're kind of like
little bots that he creates that run out and like, you know, carry a part of his powers and go do
things for him. But in the beginning, they were actually unified, but they weren't, they weren't
separate beings, they were him. And this is what you get in John, right? John 1, it's very key to
notice, and people often don't notice this, is when it says the Logos, when Jesus was the word of God
instead of, and so forth, it says, Jesus was God. It doesn't say Jesus is God, right? So Trinitarians
take it as an is, right? So he's always been coterminous with God. But no, John, John 1 is talking
about standard phylonic Jewish emanation theory, where everything started with, there was just God,
and then he pulled these like pieces out of himself and turned them into archangels and gave them
assignments and stuff. And so yes, they were at one point, coterminous with God. But once they're
out doing their own thing, they are a separate being. But they're still in some sense, metaphysically
connected to God as an emanation of him. This is normal Jewish theology at that time. That's not
even like radical or anything like that. So answering that question is difficult, because once you
understand in the context of how Jews wrote about the sort of complex metaphysics of God and the
angels and stuff, and then you look at the actual language being used by this, it's hard to like
pick apart different things. So Philo talks about the firstborn son of God, like the Logos and all
of this stuff, as though he's always had, and there's never been a moment when he's been more
exalted, like he's the most exalted of all angels. And that's kind of like Hebrew says,
he's exalted above all the angels. That's just like Philo's Logos, right? But when Paul's talking
in 1st Corinthians 15, where it sounds like he's like God is assigning more powers to Jesus as
part of this big plan, where ultimately eventually, like when all is resolved, Jesus will just merge
back with him and then they'll just be God. That does allow room for maybe there was some sort of
like even more powers that God granted to Jesus at a certain point. And that the, you know, the
descent and self sacrifice and so forth is kind of like a test that God gave before like before
he did it. Like, you know, Satan came up to God and said, yeah, give me all these powers. God says,
no way. But Jesus goes, you know what, I'm going to, I'm going to humble myself and do all of this,
not try to claim the powers of God and so on. And God goes, ah, you passed the test,
I can trust you, I can give you more powers. Is that what they're talking about? I don't know,
right? And so like, you know, this is vexed by the fact that this is a mystery cult. And even Paul
himself says there's like these mystery teachings that he can't talk about and so forth. Hebrews
says this too. Like there's a certain amount of milk I can tell you about, but like there's meat
that's for adults, right? And so there's secret teachings we don't know, right? And those secret
teachings are the easiest to change and be forgotten. So by the time you get to the second century,
when you get any other Christian writing, there's no like certainty that they even know what Paul's
secret teachings were at the time. So this is why it's vexing to try and answer this question.
I don't know if it's answerable, really. That's quite an interesting point you make.
Paula Fredrickson talks about how quickly Christians abused Paul's words and kind of went
beyond him. You know, Paul does a weird shit. We both agree like outright. And one of the weird
things I find that's weird to me may not be, I have to say, honestly, all Christian writers
in the ancient world. This is true tons of weird stuff. But anyway, when I look at him,
all right, this is a good point. When I see him do that thing with Abraham and that these people
who are becoming in Christ as a single singular seed of Abraham, he does this really convoluted
argument in Galatians three to make the Gentiles also children of Abraham. But what I was getting
at is like, he's already by doing what he's doing. I don't think he sees the replacement theology
that was coming like everything's a bit. What is it called? We call it replacement theology full
on, but the cessation of some he he doesn't. I don't think he gets like this Jewishness.
He's really getting rid of by doing this and it becomes something radically different in no
time. That's right. Yeah. Yeah. No, I think that's true. Yeah. Paul didn't foresee it in the same way
that Mark didn't foresee that people would claim that the body was stolen from the tomb. And you
know, so then that's that gets the response to him. And then Matthew has to respond to that.
You know, Mark didn't foresee like, oh, oh, yeah, that kind of looks like he stole a body didn't
that? But what can you imagine a hypothetical conversation where Mark was, no, you idiot,
haven't you read the other Greco-Roman myths where he'll become the God? Why would they
need to steal his body? He became a goddess body was missing for a reason. Like, you know,
like, you don't get the point, Matthew. Like that would be, it'd be funny to find out that
certainly Mark and Matthew would be in opposite sides. They're opponents, really, because they're
defending two separate factions of Christianity. And what we're just talking about, Matthew is the
Torah observer Christianity does not like the Pauline Christianity. It lets Gentiles in without
converting. And Mark is totally a Pauline sect document where it's totally in favor of Gentiles
becoming saved without converting to Judaism. So yeah, they're already like Matthew wrote
specifically like to attack Mark in a way. So yeah, that's going on as well. But yeah,
no, I would love to have more access to the we even if it's weird, I'd love to know more about
what they were actually thinking a lot of the time. I'm with you 100%. Thank you to our private
anonymous secret society, seventh tier, Illuminati supporter, you know who you are. But seriously,
thank you for that. And for those questions and your continued support here at MythVision when
we need you most. And I really do appreciate that. I don't need to tell you. But those who are watching
this video, join the Patreon, help support us, help support Dr. Carrey has many books. And he's
got a blog, he's got all sorts of stuff that you can get in on. And on the blog, if you pay, you can
leave comments through the Patreon. I believe it's Patreon or PayPal. Yeah, if you're, well, you can
do both. If you if you do PayPal, you have to tell me that you've done it. That's why you did it,
right? Yeah, PayPal or Patreon members, let me know. And I can put you on a white list where
your comments on my blog post immediately, you don't go to comment moderation. Everybody else
sits in comment moderation and I'm a busy guy. So comments can sit in there for a while. Yeah,
but but if you're yeah, if you're if you're a supporting member, either through PayPal or
through Patreon, you get on that white list, and then you can actually post. And you can also ask
questions. And when he has time, which it's very rare, but I get to things eventually,
takes a while. You can ask Dr. Carrey and then go from there. I really appreciate you. Thank you,
Dr. Carrey.
