The parable of the lost sheep, the lost coin, the prodigal son, or the lost son, today Dr. Amy
Jolivine is going to take a deep dive into the parables, specifically these but a few others
might get mentioned along the way, and dealing with what was on the ground in the first century
between Jews and other Jews potentially. What were the problems that they were dealing with
and how do these parables play a role? Of course, people have interpreted these things for centuries
in their own way. I have done so myself. But what did it mean when it was written?
We are MythVision. Welcome back to MythVision podcast. I'm your host, Derek Lambert, and today
I have Professor Amy Jolivine joining us, and welcome back to MythVision.
Happy to be back with you. Thank you for joining me. I really,
really enjoyed the book about the parables, or if you will, the stories of Jesus. And for those who
aren't aware, go down in the description, check out the Amazon link. Dr. Levine has a lot of books
here. This one in particular, short stories by Jesus, the enigmatic parables of a controversial
rabbi. That's selling pretty well. I haven't looked at the Amazon site. Well, that's very nice.
Number one bestseller. I got it on Audible as well, so you can listen to her,
go in and expound if you're driving or if you're busy walking, exercising. These are good things
that I'm glad she's done, taking advantage of doing it in audio format for people. But the book
is highly, highly recommended by me. If you really want to get into maybe what the actual context
initially is implying and how that can apply to you and your life today. I say that as a skeptic.
Like, I'm not even a believer, but there are lessons, right? I mean, I want to bridge that gap.
The same way that Dr. Levine is bridging a gap between Christians and Jews, or Judaism, if you
will, I'm trying to bridge that gap between someone who doesn't ontologically follow the belief,
right, of these religions, but finds lessons and such useful. And there's a lot of beauty if you
are going to take a moment, walk away from the fundamentalist debate online, and realize that
there's so much more to these stories. They've impacted the Western civilization for a reason.
So please go get you a copy of her books. Plural. There's plenty of them. And I plan on fingers cross
doing more episodes where we cover other content that she has. She's probably writing one right now.
So while we have this up, are you working on a book right now?
One just came out called Witness at the Cross. I just turned in a manuscript on the Miracles of
Jesus, which was great fun to write. And I'm still trying to get that big book on Jesus
back to Harper because they didn't like it when I submitted it a couple of years ago.
And what I'm trying to do with that is not ask, you know, what would Jesus do? Because Jesus
doesn't live in 2022. But what can we learn from these gospel texts that might have a takeaway?
As you pointed out, this is really good literature. And really good literature
should be able to speak to people over the centuries, regardless of whether one thinks
that the speaker is God or not. You know, Derek, when people start talking about ontology,
I get really nervous. I just want to look at a text. And I'm not worried about whether somebody
believes in Jesus as God or even whether somebody believes in God, because you can still get into
the parables and say, well, what does this text do to me? Because it's good literature and it's
challenging and it's provocative. If you believe all that stuff about theology, it's even better
because it makes Jesus much more interesting. And if you don't, it's still fabulous.
Thank you for clarifying that. Yeah, I must admit, looking forward to hearing what you
have to say about miracles in Jesus, because we will save that one for another day. But I agree
with you. I found that like the prodigal son parable, right? I really want to dig into this
with you today, of course. But I looked at this story as like someone who struggled with addiction,
like me, I suffered with opiate addiction for many years and then alcohol and then back on heroin.
I mean, it was really dark for me in my life and I almost died at the end. But like kind of coming
back, finding myself, you know, this is how I interpreted it in 20, you know, it was what,
2016, 2015, when I was waking back up and realizing, oh, crap, life was better without this. And
I just reinterpreted and applied the prodigal son narrative to myself. And here I am. Now,
I'm a good citizen who does the right thing. So check out the books. I highly recommend them,
because you're not just dealing with anybody. This is a professor who knows what she's talking about.
Consider also joining the Fissions Patreon. I always plug this to let you know I worked very
hard to put this out there early for you who helped support me. And this episode, Dr. Levine,
I'm doing today with her, will be on Patreon for those who are joining and help supporting.
Thank you so much. I'm trying to go to Israel in October. Consider helping out with the GoFundMe
as well. I want to walk where Jesus walked. And Dr. James D. Tabor is going to be taking me to some
of these archaeological places, including the site where we have found Pontius Pilates. If you will,
his throne seat, where he cast the verdict on Jesus himself. So please consider helping us out.
Now, Dr. Levine, in this... That was all my friends that you have up there, like Jim Tabor
and John Collins and Bart Ehrman. You talk to good people. I try. You know, they say if you
associate yourself with good people, you become good people yourself. So I'm trying to. That might
be in a parable somewhere. I don't know. I wouldn't be shocked if that was in some wisdom saying,
for sure, though. Dr. Levine, you know, one of the big things about your book that I really
wanted to probe into and I want to understand what it would have meant in the ears of its original
audience. I've read John Calvin. I've read Martin Luther. I've read the people throughout history
who've applied these things similarly to us today. We reinterpret the prodigal son, the lost coin,
the lost sheep, and we use it for our own means. I think every civilization, every century, does this.
But being a professor who really knows this stuff, original languages, has looked at the source
material, et cetera, I'd be interested in diving a little bit into this lost sheep, lost coin,
and this lost son, parable. And what did it really mean? And I'm going to throw a couple things at
you, if that's okay, and see what you think. There are people who think that the lost son is a
Gentile, right? You mentioned this in your book. There are some who say that it's a Jew who apostasized,
and that seems like that could potentially, to me, make a lot more sense in the original
context, but it's in Luke, which is really interesting. I wonder, because Luke's very
Gentile-orientated, it seems. Doesn't mean he doesn't have Jewish tendencies here at all, either,
because there's a lot of Jewish stuff in there as well. But then there's this group of people that
I've encountered that understand this parable as the son who was lost was the house of Israel,
the northern kingdom. And they hold this idea that there's a diaspora. Now, I know this is going
to sound wonky in a bit, but I'd like to know your thoughts here. Do you see that as a potential
interpretation that actually would make sense in its original context, that the son who was lost and
went and lived in this land and working in the pigsty or whatever, realizing his father's house,
et cetera, is the house of Israel, while the son who remained is the house of Judah,
as this two-house theology doctrine? It strikes me as a little bit of an overread.
If you have to have for a parable some sort of answer key, where this means this and this
means that, and without the answer key, the parable makes no sense, then the parable is a
terrible teaching device. And you're talking about some sort of esoteric group that says,
we have the truth and the rest of you are just screwed. And I don't think that's what Jesus
has in mind, because I think he's a popular teacher who actually makes sense to the people there.
Now, if you want to put on an allegorical interpretation later, so the prodigal son is
the northern tribes, the prodigal son is Jesus who leaves the heavenly home to go out and live in
a world of sin and then comes back. You can find that in the early church. The prodigal son is the
addict, who finally realizes that he needs to be home where daddy's love will embrace him. And the
older brother is the good sibling who did everything right and felt ignored, because the addict sucked
all the air out of the room. I mean, all of this stuff works, and that's the beauty of the parable.
For people in the first century going to come up with that, I don't think so. And I don't think
that Luke thinks, by the way, that the 10 tribes are lost, because right at the beginning of Luke
in the infancy material, when Mary and Joseph bring baby Jesus to the temple, well, they meet this
prophet named Anna. And Anna's from the tribe of Asher, which is one of the northern tribes.
So it's not even clear that Luke thinks they're lost. He's got one of them sitting there in
chapter two. But I don't like this idea of you have to have a special answer key, because esoteric
stuff just it annoys me. You have to get into the special club, and you have to have the special
decoder ring. It's just obnoxious. Yeah, okay, okay. So let me probe into some context here,
Matthew, that might give us a little more concrete. The circumstances that I find, and I could be
mistaken here, but it seems like it goes closer to a historical Jesus, than maybe Mark does,
even though Matthew comes after Mark. There's a material in Matthew that really raises some red
flags for me. So giving an outline of your book, you talk about the lost sheep, lost coin, lost sun,
which is really the one I'm mainly focused on. But I want our audience to first hear just why
you want to get the book she goes into the good Samaritan, the kingdom of heaven is like yeast,
the pearl of great price, the mustard seed, the Pharisee and the tax collector, the laborers and
the vineyard, the widow and the judge, the rich man and Lazarus. And of course, she concludes with
the power of disturbing stories. But you mentioned in your book that the reader, the author who's
writing this gospel or gospels, is really wanting the reader to, it's like the reader is supposed
to interact with this parable. It's supposed to mean something to the person who's reading
these texts. And so I want to get into some historical context for a second. In Matthew,
if Jesus came, as he says in Matthew 10 and Matthew 15, for the lost sheep of the house of Israel,
and we're keeping in mind, I'm trying to understand what is meant by this. And he says,
you know, let me pull up the pericope here in particular, because I think that this is going
to help us better understand. You want either verses 10, 5b or 15, 24. Exactly. Of course. So I
have the pericope. Do these just rattle the verses off the top of your head? It's very easy to do.
It really is, because I just want people to see, you know, what's actually going on in here.
He's talking to a syrophoenician or Canaanite woman, depending on which gospel you're
dealing with. But in particular, in Matthew, he's saying like, I was sent only to the lost sheep of
the house of Israel in response to this woman. And then, of course, he says, do not go in the way
of the Gentiles, excuse me, in the way of the Gentiles and to the city of the Samaritans. Rather,
go instead, if you will, to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. Is the house of Israel the Jews?
Yes. So would you, if I said to you, the house of Israel is the Northern Kingdom, because the
house of Israel was understood as the house of Israel, the Northern Kingdom in the eighth century
B.C. in the Hebrew Bible. But Jews who live in Judea and Jews, generally speaking, think of
themselves as the house of Israel, which is why, for example, in the Gospel of John, when Jesus
encounters an Nathaniel, he says, ah, an Israelite in whom there is no God. Paul refers to the group
as Israel, so that when Paul says in Romans, thus all Israel will be saved, I think he means like
fellow Jews. So there's no reason to separate Israel as just the Northern Kingdom any more than
there is to celebrate, to separate Jews as just the people from the South, because who's like Anna's
Jewish. I mean, she's sitting there in the Jerusalem Temple. That's what Jews do. So I think this whole
business about the Northern Kingdoms is a bit of an over read. Like, for example, we could go to
Hebrews 8a to give you an example. I will bring about with the house of Israel and the house of
Judah, a new covenant. Now, he's quoting a text, of course. So we talked about this in the last
episode where you like reapplying stuff to their context. There's not a separation between both
houses, you would suggest, in the first century. I think they think of themselves as a both-and.
But I don't think they think of the Jews in the diaspora as part of the Ten Lost Tribes. The Ten
Lost Tribes are basically gone. So that the folks you have in the diaspora, like Paul, Paul's from
the tribe of Benjamin. That's one of the Southern Tribes, the way it kind of cashed out. You've
got Judah in Benjamin. The Ten Lost Tribes, eventually, you start getting these legends
about where they are. I mean, it's way post biblical. Like, they're over a special river
that's only calm on the Sabbath, but they can't ride on the Sabbath, so they're stuck.
And one of the signs of the Messianic age, like when the Messiah comes, what does the Messiah do?
The Messiah ingathers the exiles, and that includes the Ten Lost Tribes, who are somewhere.
Afghanistan is not a bad bet, just because of where Assyria moved people. But we don't have them.
Well put, just to show people, I will make with the House of Israel after those days. So Jews
believe themselves to be the House of Israel in the first century. I figure it's important. I know
it seems not important, but there are people who do the Two House theology. And one of my personal
interest, Dr. Levine, is to deal with some of the racist interpretations that come out of
fundamentalist circles, like British Israeliteism, Christian identity, etc. And I like to tackle
these things by getting down to the original context, because I think it's ridiculous. I really
do. And I feel like if we can properly set the setting and who the context is about, etc., we
can undermine. I'm not saying I'm going to get people to leave, especially when they identify
themselves as special, etc. It's like talking to a Calvinist and saying, they say, I'm chosen. And
you're like, well, let me explain to you why maybe you're not better than everyone else. Let me
explain to you the original context or something. It might at least prevent people from joining
such groups and realizing the interpretation just does not work. So this Two House theology is used
by groups such as that Hebrew Israelites, British Israelites, Christian identity, etc.,
and they're going around acting like they're superior and everyone else isn't, etc.
That's one of the reasons why I bring this up. You've also got people doing the whole Two Seed
theory, where you have some people like Jews and anybody who has a lot of melanin. They must be
descended from Satan and Eve through Cain. And then you have this pure kind of white Protestant
Christian identity group that is descended from Seth, and they're the perfect ones. This is all
nonsense. To get there, you also have to dump out any theory of evolution, by the way, so it's
completely non-scientific. People are going to impose on to the text what they want to impose
on to the text. And once they get in there, that seed to use the metaphor continuing just,
it kind of takes root and you get all sorts of wonky ideas. But if the idea caches out to say,
God loves me, but God doesn't love the rest of you, that seems quite contrary to the biblical
text itself. It's God so loved the world, not just God so loved just a particular group of people.
God creates the world. And you can already see the sense of God's engagement with humanity
through Noah, through Abraham, and from Abraham to everybody else, at least as the Bible would
have it. Right, right. So getting into this lost sheep, lost. I built all that up to kind of
emphasize the parable to get your interpretation here. The lost sheep, lost coin, and of course lost
son, you mentioned in your book, you know, Adam had two sons, Cain and Abel, Abraham had two sons,
Isaac had two sons, like there's this two son theme that constantly goes on throughout the biblical
narrative. So how do we look at this parable, specifically the prodigal son that is actually
coined that way three, four centuries later, I believe it is? How do we look at this and interpret
it in its original context of what do you think is actually being meant in this gospel?
Okay. Well, to get there, I have to backtrack to your citations of Matthew to figure out why
Jesus would have said, just go only to the lost sheep in the house of Israel.
Thank you.
Right. So if that's the Northern Kingdom, then clearly the disciples didn't pay any attention
because they're hanging out in Judea and Galilee rather than going off to the diaspora.
I don't think Jesus actually said that. I think Matthew said that because there would be no
reason for Jesus to say to his disciples, hey, don't hang out with the Jews. It wouldn't have
occurred to them, right? They're Jews. They would have gone to other Jews. So I think Matthew put
it in there to explain to Gentile readers how come the mission had two parts. Part one is only to
the Jews. And then Matthew is very clear what's called the Great Commission, which is chapter 28
verses 16 through 20, when the resurrected Jesus, right? Judas has now hanged himself. So he's out
of the picture. And the 11 disciples are there when they see Jesus. Matthew, who's really smart,
says, I'm doubted because you see somebody back from the dead. I really believe this. I think
that's very nice, which means you can doubt and still continue with the program. And so Jesus
says to them, now all authority has been given to me. In other words, I didn't have it before,
but now since I've been through this death resurrection thing and I was faithful,
I've got all this authority. And because my status has now changed, therefore, go out and make
disciples. The Greek is Panta to Ethne. And I think that means all the Gentiles, right? You had a
part one, which was to the Jews, because the Pope even says this, it's to the Jew first and also to
the Greek. So part one, you go to the Jews. Part two, you go to the Gentiles. And this scene doesn't
say, you know, go to the Gentiles and screw the Jews. So what we've got is an extended mission
rather than you had part one and you're done with it. Now you've just got this extension.
I think that's what that restriction is doing there. It's not in Mark. It's not in Luke. It's
not in John. But all those other Gospels do give us a sense that Jesus just didn't spend a whole
lot of time with Gentiles. And for your listeners who were going, oh, but what about the Samaritan
woman? Well, two points on that. First of all, she's not a Gentile. She's a Samaritan, right?
She's in the Samaritans worship the same God. They both have the Torah. The Samaritan Pentateuch
is pretty close. So Samaritans aren't Gentiles. And by the way, the disciples do not evangelize
the Samaria. So when Matthew says, don't go to any city of the Samaritans, the disciples don't,
while Jesus is talking with that lady in John 4, the disciples are out buying lunch.
So even John is consistent with that. And Luke reserves any sort of Samaritan mission to the
Book of Acts as well as the Gentile mission. Awesome. Okay. Hold on one second. Just pause that
thought because I definitely want to dig into this. I can turn my fan off. I could hear it in the
background. I didn't want to disturb your audio. Sorry. That could be the Holy Spirit blowing.
So sorry. That's okay. I'm just musing. Okay. We're at the prodigal son, right? Terrible
name for the parable. She'd be called the parable of the father of the man who had two sons. That's
a better name for it. As I point out in the book, on my more annoying days, I'm inclined to call it
the parable of the absent mother because I don't know why she's not there. But we can fuss about
that. The parable is a third of three. It's a triptych. So as you pointed out, your lost sheep,
lost coins, and then two lost kids because both kids have a problem. I think the dad's also a
little confused and he's got to figure out what to do. So everybody's lost. What the church has
typically done is turn this into an allegory. Now I have to have the answer key, right? So in the
first parable, which is the parable of the lost sheep, which I want to call the parable of the
frantic sheep owner, Jesus starts out, which person among you? So we're not talking about God. We're
talking about people around him and who are the people around him? Pharisees, inscribes, and sinners
and tax collectors. That's just a cross section of it. Which person among you who owns 100 sheep?
I'm talking about a sheep owner. The word shepherd is never used. So all that good shepherd, this guy's
a lousy shepherd. He's a sheep owner. So which man among you having 100 sheep upon losing one?
At that point, I don't think any first century audience is thinking this is God, right? Because
if we're supposed to be the lost sheep and the sheep owner supposed to be God, then God has
failed with this divine mission because God doesn't lose us. We can go astray. That's Matthew's
version of the parable. But the idea that God lost us, well, come on, God get with the program.
It's a guy who's down one sheep. So he finds that he's lost a sheep. And on finding and discovering
that he's lost a sheep, he leaves the 99 on the hillside, which is stupid because sheep stray.
But this is the urgency. If I got to find this one that's missing, he finds the one that's missing
and puts it on his shoulders. You know, Olam, maybe, but these are sheep. You're the 60 pound
U on your shoulder. It doesn't want to be there. You don't want it there. You got sheep poop in
the back, up around your nose, right? So he brings it home. The whole thing's ridiculous.
He brings it home and he calls up all of his friends and neighbors and he says,
rejoice with me because my sheep that was lost is now found. They don't care. I think
I've got other things to worry about. Plus he's got 99 others. I'm also thinking rejoice with me
means I'm about to throw a party like guess what was on the menu. The whole thing is weird.
And then, and this goes to what gospel writers do because I don't think Jesus is walking around
with a group of three by five note cards reading a prodigal son, lost sheep, widow, and judge,
you know, the wicked tenants or something. I think he told these stories on multiple occasions,
like the now late lamented meatloaf would sing paradise by the dashboard lighted any occasion
that was possible. So the gospel writers have to figure out where to put this stuff in the gospel.
They've got to provide it the narrative context. And then what they do, because they're
interpreters, they're not just recording what they receive. They're telling people what to believe.
I think then Luke comes in and provides an explanation. So Luke says, ah, there's more joy
in heaven over one sinner who repents than over 99 who are righteous. I've got problems with that.
First of all, I want to speak up for the 99 who are righteous, but you're doing the right thing.
And I think I'm really happy with them, right? They're less of a problem.
And second, Luke has turned the parable into an allegory. Why would I think a sheep that was
lost is a repentance center? The parable says nothing about repent. Sheep don't repent. I mean,
sheep are lovely creatures, but repentance is not part of their intellectual capability. Sheep
don't know what it's like to feel guilt. And so therefore, sheep do not repent. I've yelled at sheep.
It doesn't matter. I'm talking about the guy forgiving the sheep, and nor need heave. It was
his own fault. So why put the blame on the sheep? What Luke has done is turn my parable into an
allegory, and that's the way it's been read ever since. So I don't want to take that away.
In the same way as you, and I thought you spoke beautifully about this, about your own
issue with opioids and then finding yourself in the, I think that's a beautiful reading.
I've been teaching until COVID. I had been teaching in a maximum security prison here in
Nashville at Riverbend. And a number of my insider students talk about being the prodigal son or
being the lost sheep and liking the idea that God went out to find them. That love continued,
and they could reclaim it whenever they came. I don't want to take that away. I think there's
a beautiful reading. I just don't think that's what 1st century Jews are getting. Why? Because
1st century Jews already know that God loves them and God wants them to come back. And that's why
God keeps sending prophets. And that's why we have Torah. And that's why we have a conscience that,
if it's working, pulls us toward God. So what often happens in these parables
is the modern interpreter comes in and says, oh, you know, Jews looked at God as angry and wrathful
and unforgiving. And of course, you need a lot of blood and all sorts of gory icky God of wrath
stuff. And then Jesus invents this loving Daddy Abba God, and Jews would have been surprised.
I don't think so at all. Because I don't think their first reading is the sheep owner is God,
and their first reading is not the father is God. And by the way, all of my very conservative
Christians, the friends that my friend Rob would call deep water Christians, you know, full body
immersion in the river, they're okay to see the sheep owner who they take as the shepherd is God,
and they're okay to see the father in the third parable. They can't see the woman as God in the
second parable. But she's in exactly the same structural position. So I like that you're highlighting
that modern readers, maybe not even modern, they weren't contemporary to the first century,
are doing all of these different kinds of, they found ways to put God in certain places or different
things in certain places. Whereas in the original, this is a flawed father, this is a flawed man with
flawed sons. So this is a Jewish thing. Yeah, so I know, I think it's funny, because you're like,
you can see where I'm coming from with my Protestant background. But tell us what is really going on
in these parables, if you can. Well, I don't know. All I can do is engage in an act of historical
imagination and speculate. So do I know for a fact that my reconstruction is correct? No,
there's no way I can know that. But I think it's a really well done reconstruction. Here's how I got
there. The first thing I did is strip out the allegory, because I think Luke has come in and
interpreted for us in the same way Luke tells us that the parable of the lost sheep or the frantic
sheep owner is about repentance and forgiveness. Luke does the same thing with the parable of the
lost coin. You know, therefore the angels in heaven rejoice when a sinner repents. Okay, look,
if sheep don't repent, coins are even less likely to repent. There's no penny penitence.
And besides which, the woman lost the coin. A sheep can actually wander out on its own coins.
You have to lose them, right? You forgot to take it out of your pocket before you did the laundry.
It dropped in whatever. It's your own fault. So let's stop here and just ask a very, very logical
question that apparently nobody has asked before, which is weird to me. How do you know if you have
100 sheep that you've lost one? How do you know if you have 10 coins that you've lost one? Right?
Well, the only way you know is if you count. So what you would do if you were a sheep owner is
you would have something called a sheep fold. And you can see this image in John chapter 10,
which is actually the Good Shepherd Discourse, where you pass the sheep through the fold and
that's how you get them in at night and you count them, right? If you take 10 coins and you put them
in a pile, most, I've experimented with students, right? So you get 10 quarters. Guess how many
quarters there are? You can't, most people can't eyeball 10. Maybe five and five, they can do it.
They get four and they can figure out they get six. We got 10, right? These little kids, 47,
right? You have to count. So the first parable as you count is one out of 100.
Second one is one out of 10. And the third one is one out of two.
And the problem with the father in the third parable is he forgot to count.
So that when, when the younger son comes home and dad puts out barbecue, right? The killer line
in this parable to me is the older brother is out in the field and he hears the sound of music
and dancing and he calls a slave. So you have to pay attention to slaves in these parables.
He calls a slave to ask what was going on and the slave says, oh, your brother came back safe
and sound and dad made barbecue or killed the fatted calf, but it's basically barbecue,
which means they had enough time to call the band and the caterer, but nobody bothered to call the
older brother because there's a dad with two sons and he forgot to invite the older brother.
And now I have two lost sons. In ancient literature, particularly Jewish literature,
but not only Jewish literature, the punchline is something called end stress, like the major
thing comes at the end. So with all that run up on the prodigal, the parable is really about
this older brother who's come, who's done everything right and is completely disaffected.
And finally, dad has to come out and plead with the older brother to come in.
And I think that's the punch of the parable. I know a lot of people who read this parable,
this is a modern reading, like the older siblings, the responsible sibling,
the only, they identify with the older brother and they say, boy, he got a lousy deal.
Because dad had been expending all of his efforts on the son that he thought was lost,
rather than the son who was right under his own roof and not recognizing his own needs.
So the punch of the parable is dad having to explain to the older brother,
you are with me always and all that is mine is yours, which is technically true,
because he divided his property between the kids. But this is your brother,
and we had to go out and find him. And the ethical kicker is then what?
Because the parable ends with these two guys in the field and
younger brother chowing down at the fatted calf buffet. What's going to happen when daddy dies?
How is this reconciliation going to happen? Will the brothers ever speak to each other?
And we have some hope here, because when you look at, if you get past Canaan Aval,
Isaac and Ishmael come together when Abraham dies and they bury the body together.
Esau and Jacob come together when Isaac dies and they bury the body together. Jacob's sons,
who are just an extreme version of this because they've sold Joseph into slavery,
all the sons come together to deal with Jacob's body when he dies in Egypt.
So there's a sense there that these people can come back together and the question is,
how do you do it? How do you obtain that reconciliation? And at the same time,
when you look at Jewish interpretation, it's like post biblical Jewish interpretation,
even with Canaan Aval, the rabbis actually condemn God, who set up the crime in the first place by
accepting Abel's sacrifice and not accepting Canaan's. By telling Canaan, you can overcome
your desires then, but then not stopping the crime and God's watching. And then God serves
as prosecuting Attorney Judge and Sentencer. So the rabbis describe this as if Canaan Aval are
gladiators in the ring and they're condemning the person who put them in the ring in the first
place. They say to God, you should have fixed this one. So they recognize the humanity of Canaan.
Not all do, some of them think he's awful, but a lot of them do. They recognize the humanity of
Ishmael and condemn Abraham and Sarah for banishing them. How do you look at the people
you've written out of your tradition and read them back in? Which is precisely the opposite
of what those two houses people are doing, who just want to leave people out and say you're done.
What Jesus parables do is they try to bring people together and create ethical provocation
at the same time. So to put a little history in the first century that we see kind of reflected
throughout the Gospels is that you have these tax collector type Jews. You have people in different
societal levels. If I were to try and apply this to an audience that may have been in the first
century and Jesus would have said something like these parables, this would have been mending between
the brother who may be working alongside with the Roman paradigm that we see and the other one
is saying, no, I'm righteous and so righteous that they kind of are casting out the other,
the lower. I don't know what you mean by the Roman paradigm. Well, I guess what I'm getting at when
I say that is like you have these tax collectors are doing things that you would expect a Pharisee
to probably, or according to the Gospels, we see this idea that they're frowning upon
these people who are sinners, these people who are not washing their hands 25 times a day.
It's got nothing to do with that. That's a misperception of Pharisees and they probably
are washing their hands. I mean, most Jews are. So when we think about sinners and tax collectors,
the issue was not kosher laws or Sabbath observance. The issue is these are the
ancient equivalents of drug dealers and loan sharks and sex traffickers and rich people who
have gotten their money by cheating poor people and continue to do so. That they're in cahoots with
Rome is just another problem, but they're righteous people who are in cahoots with Rome too, or at
least they think they are Josephuses in cahoots with Rome. You can deal with the state and still be
a practicing Jew. That's not impossible. But these are people. In 1 Corinthians, Paul says,
remember I told you not to associate with immoral people? Those are those people.
They're the ones. I don't know if your mother did. My mother told me when I was in high school.
She said, okay. So the guys who smoked dope behind the high school that I know you're friendly with
because they know how to fix cars and I had a clunker of a car and I would wind up tutoring them
in math and they would fix my car. And my mother said, I don't want you associating with them.
And you know those girls who were shoplifting because everybody, I don't want you associating
with them either because you get a bad reputation. So you talked before about if you hang out with
smart people, you'll get the reputation of being smart. If you hang out with drug dealers and shop
lifters, except they could fix cars. So what Jesus is doing by associating with sinners and
tax collectors is hanging out with the people my mother said, don't associate with those people.
And that's why the Pharisees are concerned because they don't know he's proclaiming repentance.
They just know he's going to chow down at rich people, rich people's houses who made their
money by sinful activities. It's not marginalization. It's got nothing to do with hand washing. The
Pharisees aren't concerned about whether they're following the tradition of the elders or not.
They're concerned that these guys are loan sharks and pimps and whatever else. That's the problem.
Does that play a role in this in the two brother idea?
Yeah, because because the younger brother, I think this is Luke's contextualization,
by the way, but the younger brother, he's got a he's got a ton of money because daddy's really,
really wealthy, right? Daddy's super upscale. He's got a ton of money. And what does he do?
He blows it all on what the Greek says is a psalto. It's like dissolute living.
So we don't like alcohol and prostitutes and what internet porn, you know, whatever is out there.
He's not taking care of his neighbor. He's not taking care of the stranger.
He's not building up community. He's living a hedonistic lifestyle,
which is what sinners and tax collectors do. His problem is that he blew it all.
So if we think of him not as the marginalized and excluded, but if we think of him as like,
you know, the rich young heir, think of somebody, anybody who's listening can probably imagine.
He's a millionaire who's got adult children who don't do very much except post.
That's what he is. Wow. Okay. This is really interesting. So these parables that you describe,
you go into other chapters in your book in particular, you know, the Pearl of Great
Price, the mustard seed, et cetera, they seem to all have originally been in the context of
for Jews. How did this apply to Gentiles? Are there any parables in particular that you would see
that maybe Jesus didn't really say that, but the author is making this somehow applied up to Gentiles?
I think to the parables or their wisdom literature and wisdom literature tends not to be ethno
ethno specific. Think about in the Greek side of things, Esau's fables are kind of close to
what parables are. But a Jew can appreciate Esau's fables. So I think any Gentile reading this
material is, I mean, obviously people in the early church did, granted they immediately
went to allegory because they came to the conclusion that everything Jesus was saying was pretty much
about God and salvation. So that was the trump card that they had. It's all about God and salvation.
First century Jews, they've got a more diversity of thought. We've got plenty of stuff about God
and salvation. They're concerned about how you live your life, because that's what Torah tells
you how to live your life. And they also knew wisdom literature and they knew parables as a
form of wisdom literature are designed to challenge you and to provoke you. And if you let them work
on you, they make you better people. So that when Jesus, and I'm not sure Jesus said this, but
Mark and Matthew drop in a quote from Isaiah, seeing they will not see and hearing they will not
hear. Luke throws that at the end of the book of Acts. So it's kind of a handy dandy quote to
explain why people aren't signing on to the program. I don't think Jesus said it in the
context of parables. But I do think that people resist parables, because parables like prophets
tell you stuff that you don't want to hear, but you know deep down is right.
So what happens? We hear, you know, yeah, you have to go reconcile with your brother.
And yeah, you really have to be a parent to both of them. And even though your brother
blew all his money and might have shamed the family, he's still your brother go deal with him.
You don't want to hear that. And finally, what dad says, and again, it's not about repenting
and forgiving. Dad basically says to the older brother, come to lunch. You know, and if the
repenting and forgiving come later, that's terrific. But at least you will sit at the
same table and provide an opportunity. Wow. The older brother wants to go. If I were him,
I wouldn't want to go either. But on the other hand, decent fatted calf is not something to
sneeze at. Go reconcile with the person you think is your enemy.
That's a good lesson for anybody. I mean, like that really is. Trust me, there's a big weight
lifted to when you know that your enemy, there's reconciliation between your enemy and how much
more biblical is it that he's using to brothers? And there's this theme, this constant theme.
I just thought it was interesting the way you interpreted this, or the way you're trying to
historically get down to the bottom of it. It seems better fitting that you have the two brothers
from like Abraham and these stories rather than the two houses in particular, because that is the...
Right. And remember, you can play it with women, because you get the same problem with Rachel and
Leah. You've got co-wife problems with Hannah and Panina. Hannah's the mother of Samuel.
And in the Gospel of Luke, just five chapters before this parable, you've got Mary and Martha,
who never talk to each other. This is siblings, but they're talking to each other.
I was going to ask you, why do you think Luke left out the...
I came only for the lost sheep at the house of Israel, or do not go to the Gentile or the
Samaritan, but rather go to the lost sheep at the house of Israel? Why do you think he left that out?
Well, that presumes that Luke had access to Matthew, which is already a question. I think Luke,
in fact, did have access to Matthew, but Luke didn't need it, because Luke's planning Luke volume two,
and Luke already tells you right in the birth narratives. This is Simeon speaking about how
this baby Jesus, right next to Anna from the tribe of Asher, that baby Jesus will be a light
of revelation to the Gentiles. So Luke's already told you at the beginning, the Gentiles come in,
but we don't have a Gentile mission yet. That's okay. Luke has a different way of playing this thing out.
You mentioned the tribe of Asher, and I'm just poking a little deeper here. Do you think that
some people identified, some Jews identified from the Northern Kingdom, and historically,
do you think there were people who actually identified from that Northern Kingdom? If so,
would that mean that the people who left Assyria went south into Judea kept a traditional saying,
hey, we are from this tribe, and their family ties keep going on? That's 800 years.
Yeah, that's going back to Tanakh, the Old Testament source criticism, like the so-called
E source comes from the Northern Kingdom, and in 722 when the Assyrians come in, they take all
their stuff, and they've got E with the name Elohim, and sort of transcendent versions of God,
and somehow that gets mushed into Genesis 22 in a variety of other texts. We don't know.
So all you can do is speculate, but I'm not sure why they would bother.
Did they recall that? Perhaps. I mean, absence of evidence is not evidence of absence.
So we don't know if... I think they would all think of themselves as Israelites,
and they would all think of themselves as Jews. So you can have Judean Jews, but the term is
broad enough that it can encompass the entire population of what we would call Israel,
and the terms become more or less synonymous. At the time of Jeremiah, they're not,
and that's what happens when Hebrews wants to pick up the New Covenant material, for example.
Right, one other thing. So on this New Covenant stuff, which is Jeremiah 31, well, that hasn't
happened. So all my Christian friends say, we have a New Covenant with Jesus. Okay, that's Luke,
right? So it's the Eucharistic material, but the New Covenant that Jeremiah is talking about
hasn't happened yet, because the New Covenant Jeremiah is talking about is you get kind of
circumcised in the heart, so nobody has to teach you anything anymore? Ha, ha, ha, ha.
Right, you know, so if that were the case, pastors and priests would not have a job,
because you got it all internally, and everybody would be walking around being wonderful to each
other. Clearly, we don't have that New Covenant yet. We have a different New Covenant, at least the
Christians do. What do you think about people who talk about that writing on their heart thing
when we see the Gentiles and Paul's Romans too? He talks about they do what naturally,
what is, you know, like, as if the law was written on their hearts. Yeah, it's more
like Romans one, because that leads you up to the clobber passage about what's natural and what's
unnatural. So here's the problem with Paul. Paul tends to use fake dialogue partners,
so you have to figure out who the dialogue partner is, and this is a form of ancient rhetoric.
So in chapter two, is Paul talking to a Jew, or is Paul talking to a Gentile who's taking
on Jewish practices? And already things start changing. When we think about Paul as the Apostle
to the Gentiles, one of the things Paul's really, really squirrely about is Paul doesn't want his
Gentile converts, or whatever you want to call them, his Gentile affiliates, to convert to Judaism,
or to become Jews, because if they do, then the only people who would be worshiping God would be
Jews. And Paul, thinking the Messiah has come, thinks that, well, both Jews and Gentiles together
should be worshiping the God of Israel. But the Gentiles come in as Gentiles, and the Jews come
in as Jews, and they all come in via this Jesus thing. They're supposed to stay Gentiles, like
Paul Fredrickson, and, you know, I've read her book, Paul the Pagan's Apostle, and there's other
literature out there as well. Right. Paul talks about ex-pagan pagans, and that's a really nice
way of summarizing it. And when she talks about Paul and his own phariseic identity, this is this
new book on the Pharisees that I just edited with Joseph Severs, which came out in November,
she did the article on Paul, and she describes Paul, now that he's a follower of Jesus,
is simply a better Pharisee, not an ex-pharisee. So it's an add-on rather than a substitution.
Wow. Okay. What do you do with the vineyard, the laborers in the vineyard, just to give you
another one. There are a lot of people who believe that creeping into these Gospels is
supersessionism, a replacement theology. Are any of these parables reflecting that kind of
replacement theology, IDO? Sure. So all these people who so worry about supersessionism, right?
So there are different, I just wrote an article about this, it's kind of up in my mind here.
There are different forms of supersession, so I'm going to define it.
Supercessionism means my tradition is better than your tradition. So like I'm the version
1.2, right? So I'm better than the original. There's a form of supersessionism called replacement
theology, which says you had it, and everything that you had, I now have. And that's kind of like
a hard replacement theology. But I think everybody does soft replacement theology, because everybody
thinks that their tradition is better than somebody else's, because if it weren't, you go
join the other tradition. So I think the New Testament basically is supersessionism in the
soft model, which says that you really ought to go to the 1.2 version, which is the version you've
got plus Jesus. And if you're a Gentile, you skip version one, which is Judaism, and you simply
go 1.2, and that's what you need, like you exchange your phone for the other model. Of course,
it's supersessionist. Much of it is eschatologically supersessionist. Jews continue to be Jews,
and Gentiles continue to be Gentiles. And then when Jesus comes back, he sorts it all out.
But the fact that he's sorting it all out in the Christian imagination makes it supersessionism.
We were right, you were wrong, but you're still part of the covenant. You're just not there yet.
So there's a sense of delay until Jesus sorts it out. So I think it's all supersessions. Meanwhile,
the rabbis are thinking, well, when you look at rabbinic literature, what the rabbis do is write
the priests out. So the priests at the time of Jesus, somebody like Josephus or Caiaphas,
they think that people should be listening to them. That's an inherited role. We are the priests.
We are the descendants of Aaron. You should be listening to us. We are the teachers.
And the Pharisees are going, don't think so. So when they finally morph into rabbis with some
changes in between, they talk about Moses getting the Torah from Mount Sinai, and then it goes to
the men of the great synagogue, and then it goes to the Zugo, and the heirs like Hilo and Shami,
and then it goes to them. Bye-bye priests. We're all doing it. Americans think we're better than
Great Britain, right? Breakaway, 1776, Boston Teapot, we're better than they are, right? They
have a monarchy. We don't. We're better than they are. Meanwhile, the Brits are thinking, well,
okay, we've got a little bit of problem with some of the people in the royal household right now,
but Queen Elizabeth, God bless her, she's 120 and she's still going strong.
We're all superstitionists. I really enjoy that. Is there a hint, potentially, in your research
of the New Testament, since you brought up this version, I find it fascinating, of hard
superstitionism creeping in? Are there locations where you would say this seems second century?
This seems like you already have the church saying, God is like, put Israel aside. When I
talked to Delcey Allison, Jr., I must mention, when he wrote his commentaries, I got them right
over here on the shelf. They're over there. The green books, they're blurry right there,
all three of them, and he's like, well, there's the ICC Matthew commentary. I believe it is.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, ICC. And he said, Derek, when I was doing my commentary, he said,
I'll be honest with you, I tried not to find it. Like, I didn't want it to be there and doesn't
mean that it isn't there, but he didn't really look for it. So he said, I may not have found it,
because I didn't look for that. But do you think that there's some truth to it?
Yeah, depends upon the text where you look. Paul thinks the covenant with the Jews continues,
which is very helpful, because if God can revoke a covenant, then Christians are in trouble too.
So the gifts and calling are irrevocable. That's Romans 11. What's the value of the Jew? Well,
lots of stuff when you start thinking about it. I think when you get to John, I think you've got
pretty hardcore supersessionism there, because John associates the Udioi, and you can translate it,
Judeans, it's a legitimate translation, but I think it really means Jews. They're the ones who
represent the world, and even though God loves them very much, they don't love God back. So that
when the Gospel of John talks about having the ability to become children of God, the only way
you can be a child of God is through Jesus in the Gospel of John. And Jesus only calls the ones
to whom his father has given them. I think that's supersessionism. So the church has a choice. You
can read supersessionism, or you can read hard supersessionism. The covenant with the Jews has
ended. In fact, it never really, if you were a children of Abraham, you'd believe me, but since
you don't, you're really children of Satan. That's kind of a you're out of the family.
Or you can read Paul. Luke reserves everything to the end. Luke expects that when Jesus comes
back, there will be Jews in Jerusalem to greet him, because the triumphal entry in Luke is only
the disciples. Jerusalem's like, not so sure about this guy. And Jesus weeps over the city,
which is nice, and says, you will not see me again until you say, blessed is he who comes in the
name of the Lord. So Luke is expecting some sort of eschatological Jews get with the program.
Matthew, the mission to the Jews continues. So the covenant is not revoked. It is expanded.
It depends upon the text you want to read. And the Johannine epistles don't care. They're just
busy throwing out fellow Christ believers. Wow. So it's an interesting point you bring up about
John. It makes me think of Nicdemus. Like this teacher of Israel doesn't even get it. Like,
you know, there's this constant jab at Jews and the people of Israel who just don't get it.
But that's okay. You have to be born from above. Of course, the whole plan is this is something
ascending vertical rather than horizontal, which me and Dr. Allison, we talked about this with the
apocalyptic. And this idea that it was very horizontal, there's going to be an end to history.
But John seems to kind of go, ah, we're going to make this vertical, probably because they saw a
problem with the ends not happening. Well, it might be that, but it's also psychologically
comforting. Right. So think about how people understood their own relationship to people
who they thought would sign on to the program and didn't. You can already see that agony in
Romans nine, you know, well, what about the Jews? You know, I would give up my life for them. I'm
so concerned about them because they're my, as Paul puts it in the King James, my kinsmen, right?
They're my relatives and my family or in Yiddish or Hebrew, my mishpoche, my members of the family.
Um, so you're part of your John and you're trying to explain why these fellow Jews are not signing
on to the program. And you're arguing and you're arguing and you're racking out proof texts and
you're doing signs and what, and they're just not joining on. Why not? Well, they're clearly not
stupid. So it's not that maybe it's just that we're called and they're not. And that can be
remarkably satisfying psychologically because you, the missionary, you're not doing anything
wrong. You're doing everything right. And the reason they don't sign on is because they weren't
expected to sign on on the other because that they're not part of that chosen group. We would call
this predestination. On the other hand, you're part of that group and you're in the minority and
you're thinking, well, how come people are ragging on me and how come there aren't more of us? But
you can, but God shows me and boy, that's comforting spiritually. God went after me. Forget
those other sheep. God went after me. It's so human nature too. Oh, wow. Yeah.
Theology and human nature are not mutually exclusive, right? You can read Matthew with
Supercessionists. It's certainly been done. You can read Matthew as written by a Gentile,
he's a Kenneth Clark back in the 50s, made an argument to that. I think Matthew is writing,
I think Matthew is coming out of a Jewish environment because Matthew knows post-biblical
Jewish interpretation. But I don't think Matthew is just writing to Jews. I think Matthew is
writing to anybody who's going to read Matthew. Do you think Matthew has a 1.2 program that is a
Jewish Christianity version, which is expecting Torah observance, circumcision, etc., even for
maybe the converts that are being told at the end of Matthew 28 to go into the world and make
disciples or to baptize in the name of the Father, the Son, the Holy Spirit, etc.? Do you
think their version is this 1.2 circumcision Christ position or do you think this is?
So here's the problem, Matthew. Matthew never mentioned circumcision. Boy, that would have been
helpful. So even when the Great Commission, teaching them everything that I have taught you
and then baptizing them, right? Well, since the Matthew in Jesus is really Torah observant,
but Torah doesn't have the same roles for Gentiles as it does for Jews,
and it doesn't say convert them, and it doesn't say circumcise them, it says baptize them.
So it would not surprise me that people in reading Matthew are thinking, I'm a Gentile,
I don't have to do anything that's like dietary regulations or circumcision,
but I might want to affiliate with Jews when it comes to something like Sabbath
observance because I've got stories where Sabbath observance is important.
We don't know. And the other problem is we don't know what Matthew's relationship to Paul is,
so if you think Matthew was writing to over read Paul and say, oh no, no, everybody has to follow
Torah, you can read Matthew that way. As far as I know, in reception history, people did not.
So that Matthew 7, you will say that you did this in my name and that in my name,
but you were a worker of Torahlessness, lawlessness. I always thought, and I could
be totally wrong here, that would fit perfectly with describing Paul to his audience of almost
like there's this problem we see in Acts, where they're wanting Paul to go suck up to James and
say, oh no, no, no, I'm not teaching against the Torah, not telling them not to keep this,
or I'm really telling Jews not to keep it anymore and things like that. Makes you wonder if Paul
may have potentially went too far? I don't know. It makes me wonder.
People are struggling for Paul's reputation. So again, we don't have Paul. We got the letters
that the church has preserved. And the letters, so who knows what else he wrote or said or did.
We have Luke trying to control the story of Paul, just as Luke is trying to control the
story of Jesus, right? The Luke and Prologue. Well, other people have tried to do this now.
I'm going to do it accurately in order. We're just kind of like put your mark.
And then John comes in, I think, using Luke and saying put your Luke.
Paul, as far as I can tell, is not telling fellow Jews to stop following Jewish law.
But that's not his job description. Paul's the apostle to the Gentiles. Let Peter worry about
what to do with the Jews. Paul's dealing with the Gentiles. And he's got to make sure that the Gentiles
are not practicing Judaism. So what's happening? It would not surprise me. I think he can't prove
this, but it would not surprise me that 10 years go by, 15 years go by, Paul's converting these
Gentiles who are now no longer eating at mommy and daddy's house because the food is meat offered
titles and are no longer worshiping the state gods, which is really bad politically because
the state gods protect you. And they know that Paul's synagogue based, they know he's a Jew.
And the Jews out there in Galatia and Corinth or wherever getting really, really antsy because
the Gentiles are what the hell is this Jew doing telling us not to worship our own gods?
So how do you get around that? You wind up converting these people to Judaism because
once they convert to Judaism, they will no longer be expected to worship the state.
So once it surprised me, if the people from James are like correction to Paul, because Paul's
putting these diaspora synagogues in danger, that makes sense to me. It really does. That's
really interesting. The other idea is when you talked about the Torah, we know there are no
commandments for Gentiles or people who are non-Israelites that they must keep these things.
There are options where they can, it seems, depending on where you look. But this notion
of circumcision, which is a huge problem I think in Galatians, it makes me try to understand what
the audience that's trying to convince these Galatians, Paul's wrong, is that, well, if you
look in Abraham's household, he circumcises his strangers or his servants and whatnot.
So that might be where they're getting this from. And Paul's saying, nah, nah, nah, nah, nah, nah,
and he's arguing against it. I don't know. Right. So I mean, it's a comment in Genesis where God
says to Abraham, unless you are circumcised in the flesh of your foreskin, you are cut off from
the covenant. I so want that to be a pun. I mean, I can't prove it, but I think it's funny.
So Paul then, so how do you get into the family of Abraham? Right. And you can do it through
circumcision, but you can also do it in terms of faith. Because Genesis also, God says to Abraham,
this is already in Genesis 12, you know, I will bless those who bless you, like you will be a
blessing to the nations. So you can get in through adoption without going through. So Abraham gets
used in a variety of ways. So it may well be that these folks from James are using Abraham. You
want to be like Abraham, you want to look like Paul and Jesus, you know, chop it off. And others
are saying, no, no, no, because Abraham was called prior to circumcision. So the covenant's already
there prior to circumcision. And then you go to the epistle of James saying, well, Abraham was
justified by works as well as by faith, because he was willing to offer son on the altar. And Paul
says it's got nothing to do with works, but they're defining works and faith differently. So
anybody can take a biblical character or a biblical verse and turn it into anything they want.
And it's just a question of how good an argument can you make. One way of judging is, is that argument
consistent with other biblical passages, or is this just a one off? Abraham is usable in a variety
of ways. Well put. So last thing, what would you say is your favorite parable out of all the ones
you wrote in this, in this book, what is your favorite one that you deal with?
Oh, that's like asking, who's your favorite kid? I mean, you can't do that. I can't do that. There
are some I like better than others. I don't like the agricultural parables as much as I like the
parables that deal with people rather than like with seeds, whatnot. Right. I really like the
parable of the laborers in the vineyard, mostly because everybody keeps saying, well, that's not
fair. You know, like they, they work it for different hours and they all get paid. I was like,
that's not fair. And I like to read that in terms of, well, you're all part of the same labor pool.
And if you had simply advocated for your friends who weren't chosen the first time around, you all
still would have gotten the same amount of money and your work would have been done by noontime.
And I like reading it as a sense of advocacy. It takes me back to elementary school where people
had to choose upsides. Right. And the last thing you wanted was to be the last one chosen.
Right. Because that's really awful, like playing games of Red Rover or whatever it is that people
do. And you knew what it was like to be like the last two. Right. And then suddenly your name gets
called. Do you advocate for your friend? Oh, let's bring Mario. No, you don't. And the parable says
you're all part of the same labor pool. Advocate for each other. I like the parable of the widow
when the judge, which Luke says about is about praying always and not losing heart.
It's about a widow going into court and threatening the judge with a black eye
unless he gives her, unless he avenges her. That's what the Greek says. Avenge me against my opponent.
And that raises such wonderful moral questions about when, if ever, is violence appropriate.
And do we stereotype widows as always being in the right when? In fact, some of them are not.
And what about the opponent? Jesus says in the Sermon on the Mount, make friends with your
opponent when you're on the way to court. Well, the widow didn't manage to do that.
Does the judge do the right thing for the wrong reason or the wrong thing for the right reason?
And I'd like to think about that parable as people going to court today just to protest
things like police brutality. Right. This policeman killed my son and now I'm in court
and I'm not getting any satisfaction. And what am I going to do to get people to listen to me?
Why is it a fabulous parable? It finally, for me, raises the question, and it's a really important
question, is what's the distinction between justice and vengeance? Avenge me. Is to be a
avenged justice or is it to override justice and move into something else? So I go back to my
friends at Riverbend with their various sentencing and some of them sentenced to quite different
terms for exactly the same crime. And what is justice and what is vengeance? And is it justice
to be sentenced to a life sentence for something you did when you were 16?
The parables raise questions like that and they don't give you an answer, but they say this is
the stuff you need to consider in order to be a well-informed and, in fact, moral person.
Well put. Really well put. Deep. I mean, I love these stories. I love these parables. Wisdom
thinking, like wisdom sayings, making you think. I really enjoyed this book. Please go get it,
everybody who's watching. And Dr. Levine, if you don't mind, telling us what books should we handle
next on this show? Well, there are more if you go on. There are a bunch of children's books which
are on parables because we thought we'd get the kids early. Oh, there we are. So there's this one
about a sheep owner carrying a sheep. It's called who counts, which is exactly what it's supposed
to be. Who counts, which is who did the counting, but also who counts and who doesn't count and how
do you make sure that everybody feels counted? So what we thought we would do, Sandy Sasso and I,
my co-author, who's a brilliant children's book writer, is say you can take the provocation of
the parables. And little kids, three-year-olds know what it's not fair means. And three-year-olds
know what it's like when mommy and daddy pay more attention to the sibling than to them,
or when the teacher pays more attention to the noisy kid than to them. And we give guidelines to
parents and caregivers on how to read this book with your kids, how to ask open-ended questions
to tease the kids, to kids' imagination. So if you want to start easy, start with one of the,
there are six of them now, start with one of the children's books. And otherwise, when you open up
the parables book, it starts with the familiar ones, you get the prodigal son, you get the good
Samaritan. And you can play with it and you can look at whatever you want to look at and you can
do it without the footnotes because they're all on the back. Wait, that's a lot. Look, I've been very
productive. Yeah, you really have. There's a lot of books here. I'm going to have to get some so I
could read to my kids just to see how they respond to them, of course, as well. Signs and wonders,
that looks interesting as well. That's the one that I just turned in, so it's not out yet.
Okay, so we could pre-order it with one click. Let's go ahead and do that. Oh, it wouldn't let me.
I want everybody to, I'm going to have to see, maybe it's not ready for pre-order, but I am
definitely getting that. I would be interested to hear your thoughts because I've also looked at
magic, right? Understanding what's going on in magic in the first century and people were very
superstitious thinking. How do you tell the difference among miracle and medicine and magic,
right? Even today, that's a bit of a problem. Oh, my cancer is gone. It's a miracle. No, it's the
chemotherapy. It's magic. No, it's medicine. It depends upon who you ask. I really look forward
to this, so you're going to have to let me know, ooh, the historical Jesus. Let me tell you, my
audience might really enjoy that one, but when did you write it? Would you be interested in doing
an episode on this? I could. Dale Allison, your friend is one of the co-editors as is John Dominic
Crossen. So I figured as the lead editor here, if I could get Dale and Dominic to agree on something
that is probably something that's pretty good, it's a little outdated. It's an edited collection,
but it's got some really, really good new translations of primary sources. So if you want
to understand Jesus, what are the sources of the time that you need to know about pagan Jewish,
early Christian, and so on? So it's one of the Princeton readers.
Wow. Okay. Well, everybody, please go get you a copy of some of these works. And if you're a
listener on Audible, they're all over Audible as well, please go get that. Consider joining our
Patreon, of course, as well. I am constantly working my butt off, coming up with tons of new
material. This one's really interesting. Katelle Bertolo, she just got a Jewish award for her book
Jews and Roman Rivals. There's a lot of really interesting scholars out there,
and I'm trying to go to Israel. If you want to help support me on that trip, please consider doing
so. I'm looking forward to walking in the footsteps of where this Jesus figure may have
won. And just be careful when you get to the Sea of Galilee. Oh, yeah. It's dangerous.
Yes, because you're going to try to walk on it. And it's, right? Oh, yeah. We plan on going to
the Dead Sea. I want to go to the Masada, of course, as well. I want to go see some of these
places. And I think it'll be really interesting. I wanted to also, I told Dr. Tabor, I want to go
through Hezekiah's Tunnel, which isn't part of the itinerary. And maybe even if it's not too far,
go to the apocalyptic figure. Is it Hanny? Hanny? Hanny the circle? Hanny the circle draw. That's
his graze up in Galilee. Yeah. I would love to go and see that location. And news of this morning,
I think I saw it in the arts, is that people are claiming to have found the home of St. Peter,
and it's not in Capernaum, it's in Bethsaida. You can make a pretty good argument for that,
to have some folks to visit. Well, look, I would love to go do that. Is there any final words to
our audience that you would like to say, Dr. Levine? Yeah, keep asking questions. And if you
have to make Judaism look bad in order to make Jesus look good, you've probably got a crappy
reading. So go rethink. Well, thank you so much, ladies and gentlemen. All of the description has
every bit of the information you need, the links, etc. So be sure to go down there,
click on one of them, get a book, check it out. And until next time, we are MythVision.
