Should we believe even if it isn't true?
Ayan Hursi Ali has left Islam 20 years ago, became an atheist, and then left
atheism and went to Christianity. She has a lot to say in her writings and makes me
have all sorts of things to say myself, but should we believe even if it's not true?
What's really interesting is I saw this Lex Friedman episode a long time ago about what made
Homo sapiens win against the Neanderthal. And Homo sapiens, we evolved to be able to unify
under the same concepts. We could come together more than 50 in a group and really we could come
in mass numbers, collective numbers that are just like beyond what any other primates were able to
do. And we would be able to do that under one umbrella or idea. Empires and kingdoms were
something unique to us compared to the rest of the primate kingdom. And a lot of that would be
connected politically, but also ideologically under certain deities that they had geographic
locations. I mean, what I'm trying to say is you can show how invented and manmade from the
very earliest writings, prehistory down into history, all of its manmade, all of these religions,
that's Judaism, Islam, Christianity, you name it, they're all manmade. And I know this. This is not
a I felt in my heart and experience that could be explained through neuroscience and all of the
various things that humans as well as other animals experience placebo and serotonin and
chemicals that obviously will be triggered when you're hearing messages that convey that natural
primate instinct of mother, father in nature to the human, the child, the infant. We're crying out
in worship, reaching up, asking the Heavenly Father to grab us in his arms, his son to hold
us with warm embrace as he died on the cross. And his father, our God is sniffing the sweet aroma of
the death of the sacrifice of his son because sacrifices, burn offerings were food to the gods.
And we can know this. You can read and learn and say, oh, holy crap, there's a great book by Francesca
Stavrakapulu, God and Anatomy, where she breaks down the ancient Near Eastern shows you that way
before the Bible, this is exactly how the gods operated, God's plural. And you find this even
in the Bible over and over. Did you did you notice that when Noah got off the flood after the flood
waters receded, the first thing he does is take one of those animal arc creatures and makes a
burn offering to God. It says that the sweet aroma went into his nose and it changed his heart toward
mankind. He was trying to annihilate them all other than Noah. And then he was like, I'm never
doing that again. Because that barbecue that Noah just made was just unbearably good. I have to have
that again. That is not original to the Bible. You find this with Inky and Anne. And you find this
in the previous myths all the way in the earliest writings in Mesopotamia. This is exactly what we
see. And they did the same thing. They wanted to annihilate these loud, rowdy humans. And then
eventually a sacrifice was made and they came together at that dinner table. Never do that again.
Let's not kill all humans again. Let's not do that. You can see how manmade it is. So when I find out
that the ex-Muslim famous new atheist, what's her name? Ayan Hursi Ali has become a Christian.
And she says so. Really, she thinks that it's the Western story. She thinks that Western civilization
is going to collapse. So she's purposefully indulging into this. Maybe she's feeling something missing.
You know, I've speculated in my mind. Maybe because of her ex-Muslim experience. And she
explains how radical that version of Islam really was. I kind of wonder, and I'm just throwing
this out there, if the recent events that have happened in the war with the Middle East have
played a significant role. And I wonder if certain people on the left that are more liberal,
that are more secular, that are atheist, that are maybe taking a stand against Israel. I'm not
getting into that here. I'm just making the point. They're making the stand against Israel. And she
sees how extreme Hamas is in their, they wrote about this in their actual documents of trying to
annihilate the Jews and hatred for the Jews. And of course, Jihad with its interpretation in their
context, being warfare and death and all the above, they'll go to heaven if they die in combat.
By the way, this isn't unique to Islam. Christian martyrs and Christian crusaders had the same
concept of dying and battle and going directly to heaven and stuff. So it isn't unique to Islam.
It's all I'm saying. Yes, they call it Jihad. But just as you go into the history, you start
realizing these humans had all sorts of ideas that they came up with. Should we believe if it's not
true? So you start to realize, oh my gosh, there's certain morals that we today in the West could
say have Judeo-Christian roots. Okay, okay. You know what? Damn it, you got me, David Wood.
You got me, man. You got me, Ruslan. You got me, man. The six points of the end times and stuff.
Dude, those videos are really like, I got to do some responses to you, man. Just to poke holes and
show you why I think it failed. The apocalyptic expectations of the first century did not happen.
They tried to date set, change dates, try to reinterpret. Day is a thousand years. They're
getting at all sorts of pickles. John chapter 21, I mean, it talks about that they thought that he
was never going to die, but that's what some of the rumors said. He never said that. They're trying
to solve the problem for why some of you standing here will not taste death. The Lord comes in his
glory with his angels to repay each man according to his deeds, the kingdom and all that. And
Christians want to say the kingdom is actually this thing that happened at Pentecost or the
Transfiguration or whatever they want to do. There's always some way in which they try to make sense
of this. Should we believe it if it's not true? What should we believe? If that's not true, what
should we believe? I'm saying it's not true, but I understand you creating a story or having a story
that people can unite under. So I imagine she, as she's leaving her atheism and trying to find unity
in what she thinks is what made progress in the West, which, goodness gracious, there's so much to
read and show why actually getting away from that whole literalist perspective, many of the Founding
Fathers were deists. It was getting away from these. It was the secular post-enlightenment
values that start to help us get away from things like slavery, women's rights and stuff.
This was not a Christian doctrine. The Christian doctrine tells your woman to shut her mouth in
church and to learn from her husband. And women cover your heads because the demon angels who
had sex in Genesis 6 might come down and rape you. Okay, this is Paul's teachings. You want to
reinterpret it? Go right ahead because you've been doing it for 2,000 years. I understand. It's not
just Christians. It's also the way translators have dealt with this material. Jews have done the
same thing with their material and it goes on and on. Okay, it's just way to Islam, right? Muslims
do the same thing with their early sources and they can't get along with each other. There's all
sorts of hell. So then I have to like ask and I'm asking for myself and I'm also asking the
Christian apologist online. And you know, I'm asking you a question I don't know if you can
fairly answer this and truly give me a significant reasonable response that makes sense. Curious to
know if Christianity is not true, which it isn't. But for the sake of argument here, because you're
going to deny that and try and make cases a million, million plus cases to say that it's not a manmade
religion, that God really did raise his son from the dead and all that stuff, which I think is not
true. I think it's legend. It's myth. It's made up. It's stable. It's not true. And I'm saying it's
not true. If it's not true, which goes contrary to your core values and everything you believe,
then what should we believe? It looks like she buckled and went with something because
I don't think she sees how it's going to win in her eyes to be secular atheist. And maybe she was
truly losing out on her purpose or meaning or value in life. And trust me, I'm a human. I think
of things like death more often now than I ever did as a Christian. I felt like as a Christian
when I was a believer, I was so like, I'm going to heaven. It's okay that I didn't really think about
death and how that even mattered. Now that I'm not, I have more time to think about, I think,
serious things like death and what am I leaving for my children and how I'm going to live my life
now and things like that. In my mind, that's important. But it seems that when I'm asking this
question, that I don't know if I can get a true answer that makes sense. I'm asking for more of a
realistic narrative based on what we now know, based on the most up-to-date information. Not some
guy who died on a cross that was theologized or mythologized and his father smelled the sweet
aroma of his sacrifice in some way and sense that Christians think, yeah, this is true. He died on
our behalf and stuff. That myth, it unites Christians. The myth that we see in Islam unites
Muslims. The myth we see in Judaism unites them. Nationalism can be seen as a myth, a constructed
story of a nation, whatever the nation may be, unites them under one story, under one purpose,
under one ideology and under one goal. What should one believe if one sees all of these
religions are man-made? Some worse than others. Personally, I think that Islam is behind in
terms of it's getting where it needs to go, but it's going to take some time. I think it's behind
on that curb. I don't know what it's going to take to get it to where at least Christianity is
coming out of that, but Christians see this whole thing as a win right now in terms of like seeing
an atheist come over. How many atheists are being made? Serious question. How many Christians are
seeing this isn't true and are leaving and are going to more secular humanist perspectives
because they realize that the walls, going down a barriers between us and the construction of
made up ideas, we are all human. We're all part of the same family. We all literally evolved on
the same planet with the rest of not just humankind, but also the animals. Why is it that we can't
construct something new or a new idea that could put an umbrella where everybody can try and
find something that matches them under it? Instead, we got to go back to something that has evolved
and is not the same as it was when it first started. By the way, it first started. There are
several versions of Christianity out the gate competing with itself. That doesn't get stamped
out for centuries to figuring out what the Orthodox versions are and the divisions between East and
West and the list can go on and on. Christianity did not start these moral ideas that Christians
love to assume. I had this conversation with Ruslan and text message, but this is stuff that David
Wood and guys like that try to really nail down as if Christianity has it all. Christianity borrowed
their ideas from the Greeks and the Romans and, of course, Jewish predecessors because the earliest
Christians were Jews. They're coming through that vein, but then you have to open up the world of
the goyim, to the goi, to the Gentiles, to the ethne in the Greek. Well, okay. Now we're dealing
with a people who are not Jews flooding into this thing over time and bringing some of those concepts,
but those concepts right out the gate Paul teaches in his letters match quite well in many ways to a
Hellenistic world because he became all things to all men. He had to use these ideas in order to
get it, but he also seemed to believe in these things with the Numa and how that had real deep
pedigree into the philosophers of stoicism and Platonism. Even the early church fathers had to
say, well, you know, actually Aristotle was probably a Christian, not probably. He was a
Christian because how did he know these things except divine revelation of the logos and this
insight had to have come from God. I really find that ironic that the first people who get this
teaching and these ideas come to the Greeks, people who have clear polytheistic myth and
storytelling from Heracles, do you name it, of their figures? They're the ones who get this idea
first. Then there's combating that takes place later among them. Who got it first, Plato or Moses?
And so there's this idea of whether or not Moses and Plato borrowed from Moses and stuff,
never mentioning the logos, but there's all these ideas of like who came first,
who had pedigree. The Pythagoreans are arguing against the Platonists and they're trying to
say that we are up and Plato's down and vice versa. This stuff never ends. Should we believe it if
it's not true? You know, sometimes we make up white lies for family or for kids and we do it
because we know what's best for them and we want to try and help them. We think this is going to
guide them in the right way. You know, sometimes we do for fun. Sometimes we talk about Santa Claus,
which we know is made up. Kids believe and they live in the fictive, mythical world. But one day
they grow up and realize Santa wasn't real and they got to live in the real world. Can we find
something that helps unify us, that isn't these ancient myths?
Or must we believe them even if we don't believe them? Or must we indulge and say we
participate and practice them in order to what? Keep Western civilization up? That's the idea
that I think has just recently happened with the atheist that left and became Christian,
Ayan Hersey Ali. And I got to look at her name because you know what's funny? I never even knew
who she was till all the Christian apologists were over here going, yeah, hey, yeah, we got to win,
you know? And it's like, what? Who is this? So I guess she's part of a new atheist movement. I just
start, I read one of her, Why I'm a Christian and she left Why I'm Not an Atheist or something like
that. She said over against Burton Russell and then talks about her past as a Muslim and how extreme
the Muslim brotherhood and her teachings were as a Muslim in the hate for Jews she had,
which makes me think that maybe some of that stuff in the Middle East
in the way that people in the West have kind of treated the situation,
not really like really, really condemning what happened on October the 7th,
but only trying to look for nuance and not really just outright condemning it. I imagine that probably
triggered her as well. She's probably like, hell no, because that's naturally how I felt,
like not saying going to Christianity, but naturally felt this like,
why are people who are claiming to be rational, educated Atheist skeptics who are liberal in
their ideas morally and ethically over here rooting? And I'm not talking about pro-Palestine
people who wish, you know, they have their stuff there. I'm talking about people who are outright
in support of Hamas, praising Hamas. I actually saw, just so you know,
I actually saw videos that were circulating from some of the professors who actually had them online
from what was happening after October the 7th. And they were chopping people's heads off on camera
with with garden hose laughing and taking sticks and ripping the eyes out of the person's sockets.
They did things that you can't describe, undescribable. That should be without any,
but if and or anything condemned, period. There shouldn't even be a question on how wrong that was.
There shouldn't be, period. But I guess there is. And that might have triggered her. That may have
made her go, you know what, we're heading down a path where like extremist ideologies that would
behead you if you were practicing queer or anything along these ideas, they would kill you and they,
what wrong turned did these people take? That they would like be pro these people who are literally,
and I'm talking about Hamas, who are the literal like people out here committing these atrocities
over against these civilians. And she's probably thinking, I got to get further away from Islam.
And if the liberals in the left in the West are like holding hands, singing kumbaya with Muslims,
who are cheering on the total wipeout of the people of Israel and wanting them to be completely
removed from the land. Hey, I got to get further away from these people, because now they're over
here in cahoots with the very people I left at the beginning. Well, who do I go to? Oh,
I'm going to go to the Christians. That's what I think might be happening with her.
But should we go to Christianity if it's not true? This is the question. It's almost like,
I imagine she feels like this is a battle she can't win. Because she has to go to this,
to this thing that purposely push herself into the idea that maybe there's some magical being
outside space and time, not knowing the history or the context or the culture
in its cultural historical context, understanding the evolution of the God,
and all of this religion is manmade. Not really knowing that. I can't imagine she's
read all this material and then would come and become a Christian. I don't see how,
unless she's purposefully identifying with a group and then playing make believe.
So for those Christians out there who might be listening to me today, recognizing I don't
believe this is true at all. Let's just pose a question. Say I ask you, since I don't believe
Christianity is true at all, what do you think I should do? What do you think I should do? What
if this lady, Ayan Hirsi Ali, comes out and goes, all right, in like a few months, she goes, look,
Christianity is a myth. But I got to believe it because Western society in her mind somehow is
just going to collapse. And there's a pedigree of Western society that's been Christian for so long.
And well, technically it's that or it's Islam because I can't choose to go over here to these
people who are rooting and being pro-Hamas in some way or something. I don't know. I'm just
throwing this out there. Like, would you as Christians just accept her if she thought that
everything you guys taught wasn't true, pick and chose some of the morals, but just decided, hey,
I don't believe this? No. And by the way, it's not the Christians or Christian morals and ethics
that gave us women's rights, that gave us the whole eradication of slavery and stuff. No, no, no, no.
Post enlightenment ideas in a secular world, people who were deist, who brought in this whole
republic that we have, modeling it off of not only some of the Judeo-Christian ideas, but also
Greek and Roman, Plato, the Republic of Rome. And if you don't know that, well, I can't help you.
So there's a lot going on with this whole notion. And I guess just to ask you, I don't believe in
Christianity at all. But are you saying that I should play make believe? Well, no, because you
honestly believe it's true if you're a Christian apologist. And I don't know what the hell is
going on in Iron Hersey Oli's head. But I can tell you this, once you know these are manmade,
once you see they're manmade, the idea of playing make believe on purpose, just to try and unite
more humans. I know it's an uphill battle trying to get people to wake up because it's easier to
believe in something, in my opinion, it's easier to believe in something than not. At least cognitively,
it takes some real thinking to think outside of superstition, to think outside of the emotions
and understanding more science and more of the history of what's going on. It's not easy to
rationally find ways out of these things. Very difficult. It took a lot of time and a lot of
research for me to come to the conclusions I do. It's an uphill battle. But I think that if we all
did these things, we would be better equipped on understanding the human plight and understanding
reality better, which could help us then come into a narrative we could create. We could help construct
that would help unify us without having to go to these ancient Abrahamic faiths that seem to
dominate our world and the ideologies that are so in a way coercive or at least manipulative,
mentally and psychologically abusive at times, and at times even at the end of the sword or the
end of a gun. That's still today in many places of the world. I know it's an uphill battle,
but I feel like if we educate more people to seeing what it is, what do you think?
To those who are skeptics out there, to those who don't believe, help me out. This is me venting
to you just expressing my two cents after I saw a video that David Wood did on how Christianity
is superior to atheism. I saw that Matt Delahunty actually said something really interesting on
Facebook because he's on the atheist side. Let me pull that up here because it might be worth
bringing up what Matt says here. I think he says something unique. Matt Delahunty, I think, yeah,
there we go. He made a comment about her that I thought was interesting before we wrap up this
video if I could find it. All right, I and her see Ali is now Christian, not because there's evidence
for the truth of Christianity, but because her time as an atheist fell to combat her nihilism.
And she fills the utility of Christianity can better combat woke ideology and Islamism.
So I feel like maybe she's equating woke ideology with people who are in bed with Islamism. I don't
know. I don't know her particular views. Not remotely surprised, Matt says, after leaving
Ion's keynote speech at 2015 American Atheist Convention and repeatedly seeing her spread
talking points from the right wing think tank. Okay, I realized that while she was an atheist,
she wasn't a humanist and was primarily looking for a way to combat Islamism. Okay, so this is Matt.
That's probably why I'm seeing the same thing here. I mentioned this to Beth, whoever that is,
humanism and right wing thinking just don't go together. And because of that, she wasn't ever
going to find a good fit with a broader atheist community. One year later in 2016, Theresa McBain
would have been thrust into the atheist spotlight at the 2012 Reason Rally, returned to her former
faith because she missed the music. And perhaps because she lied on a resume and needed to slip
off into more comfortable environments. Some people fall into atheism because some religious
ideology fell them. But that same religion also sets expectation that atheism can't nothing can,
because the expectations aren't tied to reality. That's an interesting way of saying that, Matt,
if you watch this, because in my understanding, that is exactly, they give you this fictitious
abracadabra. You're going to live forever. You're going to go to heaven. It's going to be amazing.
Oh, and if you don't, you're going to go to hell for many of them. And then you say,
atheism has never been the solution. It's merely a facet of the solution along with skepticism
and humanism. I love how you said that. I saw some of my friends who chatted below on that.
There's some really good comments down there. But yeah, this is a really good point. And I think
if we replaced it with secular humanism and realizing the equality of humans, both sexes,
various genders, you name it, we broke down these walls, we wouldn't have these problems.
But I also do think that stepping up and seeing the extremism that is in Islam as you have, Matt,
and you've been debating some of the idiots out there like Daniel Hikikachu, kudos to you for
tolerating that debate as much as you did. Wow. This just gets crazier and crazier. What do you
think in the comment section? Tell me your thoughts. I'm curious to see, but this is a win to some.
This person left. People are leaving Christianity. Insane amounts of people
are leaving Christianity. It's wild. So this idea that this is a win because she's a really well
known name, I guess, because I never knew about her, of course they're going to be happy to see that.
And then there's going to be other people who are going to leave Christianity and there's going to
be people who are just going to become Christians. There's going to be people who are going to become
Muslims and there's going to be people who are going to leave Islam. This is just the way the human
process works. I love you. Thank you so much, everybody, for tuning in. Tell me your thoughts.
I'm curious to hear what you think and never forget. We are MythVision.
