Be sure to check out MythVisionPodcast.com.
Help MythVision grow guys, become a Patreon member.
You guys will get early access to all of my videos when I'm done editing them.
Also it's a small community where you guys can message me your questions and talk to
me in private.
You guys can donate also through PayPal, join our social media links down in the description.
We have Twitter and Facebook groups, help the community of MythVision grow.
Don't forget to subscribe to this channel, hit that bell button so you're notified every
time I do a live video and you don't miss any of my content.
Like this video and comment your thoughts below because I want to know what you think
about all of these things.
We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision Podcast, your host Derek Lambert.
Thank you guys for checking out the show today.
I have Dr. Samuel Zinner with us today and we're going to be going into the first century
common era and second century if you will, but definitely into the war times.
The apocalyptic scenario that the Jews are having in their minds are very messianic in
nature, but also there are a lot of wars going on between Rome and the Jews.
We know this from Josephus, but there's an interesting character we would like to bring
to the table and Dr. Samuel Zinner is going to do that.
Welcome to the show, Dr. Zinner.
Thank you.
Guys, go down in the description, check out his links.
He's got a YouTube channel, go subscribe to his channel, make sure you guys help that.
He's growing it now, so his content's not out there, but he's going to be producing
content more and more on his YouTube channel as well as check out his academia.edu.
He's got thousands and thousands of pages of written material for you guys to look at
some of the investigative work he's done on researching a lot of these topics.
You guys, as well as myself, are fascinated with.
So to Simon Barcok, is it Simon Barcokba?
I believe that is.
Or shimon shimon, OK, we can say Simon Shimon Barcokba.
Anyway, the the the the star, the star, Simon, the star.
So tell us about this guy, because honestly, I've not done one show on
Mithvision where we talk about this this guy.
This is the like one of the messiahs in some Jewish thought.
So tell me about this gentleman and what's so important about him?
What took place in this time in history?
Why is it relevant?
I don't know, just start somewhere with this, if you don't mind.
But to set the context, you have to go back to the first century, first
Jewish war, the 67 to after 70 of the common era.
Right. And so we all know from Josephus how that ended.
Right.
And it's it's very probable
that Jews, as the decades past, as the 70 year mark was approaching.
Right. That some Jews, especially of a militaristic messianic mindset,
were probably expecting something apocalyptic to happen.
Based on. Anarch precedent, right.
That's this 70 the trope of the 70 years
that have to pass right before exile will end.
Right. And you have this the figure 70.
It's from Daniel the apocalyptic book of Daniel, for instance.
So after 70 of the common era after the temple was destroyed by the Romans.
Right. Here.
Now it's one fifteen one seventeen of the common era under trade.
Right. We have the Taitos wars in Egypt, which decimated
Jewry in in Alexandria.
Right. So this was.
Sort of an interim war before.
Right. Now we're we pass that we're now we go up to the one thirties.
Right. Specifically, one thirty two is when the bark of revolt began.
This is also called second Jewish war.
And so the Taitos war is rarely referred to as the second Jewish war.
It's usually that means as usual reserve for the bark of revolt one thirty two
to one thirty six C.E.
A lot of the literature, especially the old literature, you'll see that one thirty two
to one thirty five, but more recently.
Right. We're pushing it up to one thirty six.
Right. So one thirty two one thirty six is the second Jewish war against Rome.
And it is unsuccessful, just as the first one was.
But now.
Shimon Bar Kokhba is shrouded in mystery because he didn't have a Josephus.
Right. Who could write his history?
Right. In the you know, in the time following the events,
soon following the events.
Right. So we're dependent on much later sources.
So shrouded in mystery.
But right, we can put a lot of this together and historians have,
especially in recent years, there's been a revival of interest in Shimon Bar Kokhba.
Bar Kokhba, right, Aramaic, literally, it could mean son of a star,
but it's actually just an idiom here.
Bar Hebrew and what it means, it simply is the star, Shimon or Simon, the star.
Right. And so that's how he's referred to in the ancient literature.
This is based on a very famous prophecy in the Torah, in the book of Numbers
twenty four seventeen out of a star will come out of Jacob.
I'm sure most of all of your listeners are aware of this prophecy.
Now, that's interesting.
The star, right, which in Aramaic, again, is Kokhba, right, will come out of Jacob.
Jacob, right, because in the Talmudic literature, right, the records about Bar Kokhba
mentioned that it was the famous Rabbi Akiva who proclaimed Bar Kokhba the Messiah.
So what is the connection there?
The Aramaic or Akiva is simply an Aramaic form of the Hebrew name Jacob.
Jacob. Right.
So it's like a very literal application of this prophecy.
A star Kokhba will come out of Jacob.
So Bar Kokhba will come out of, that is, will be announced by Rabbi Akiva.
All right, Rabbi Akiva is a very important person in rabbinic Judaism.
He's associated with, even with esoteric traditions and
esoteric interpretations of the letters of the Hebrew alphabet.
So, you know, like anticipations of later Kabbalah, for instance.
And so if he contemporaneous, is he contemporaneous with Bar Kokhba?
Well, yes, yes.
So I mean, that's what it means that he and he proclaimed Bar Kokhba to be the Messiah.
So that is while he was living, right?
Well, Bar Kokhba, yes.
So they were probably more or less the same age.
I mean, we can't know, but they're from the same time period and they're operating together.
And Rabbi Akiva is the one who endorses
Shimon Bar Kokhba as the Messiah.
Now, the Talmud tells us another Rabbi is objected and said, well, Rabbi Akiva,
grass is going to be growing over your grave, right, before the Messiah comes.
But a lot of these Talmudic traditions, we are probably not all that historical.
They probably are more, they're there more for teaching lessons, right?
The feel of making theological points.
What have you.
In any case, those are the traditions.
The Bar Kokhba revolt begins in 132.
Historians debate a lot about what was the procterate cause, what set off the rebellion.
And personally, I subscribe to the theory that
the Emperor Hadrian now, in leading up to 132,
made it known that he wanted to rename the conquered and destroyed city of Jerusalem
after his own clan, and that, you know, make to name it Elia,
capitalina, after his clan named Elios.
And so, right.
So this is basically meaning a paganization of the destroyed city of Jerusalem.
And this was just too much for Jews to stomach.
It's very similar to what happened before the first Jewish war.
And it's also similar to what happened even earlier in the 40s,
with Emperor Caligula, who threatened to set up his statue, right,
his statue himself, or some deity from Greco-Roman deity in the temple, right.
And that would have led to war had not the Emperor died before, you know, devolved into that.
So a lot of scholars think that it was only after the Bar Kokhba revolt
quashed after it ended that Hadrian decided to rename Jerusalem Elia, capitalina.
But I think more scholars are now positing this.
Actually, he did that earlier and that was the reason the war started.
And so it would just be a coincidence, right, that it was coming up on that years,
70 years, right, more or less after the destruction of the temple in 70 of the common era.
So messianically, militaristically-minded Jews were probably keeping an eye out.
It's like, well, it's what we would call the year 140 of the common era would end to be 70.
So in other words, everything would be finished before 70 years passed, right.
So 132, right, you're in the final decade, right.
So that was the thinking.
All right. So this shimon Bar Kokhba, right, the church fathers,
right, he presented himself as some messian, as the Messiah who had descended from heaven,
as the star fulfilling numbers, 2417, a star will come out of Jacob.
And most scholars doubt that, right.
They say, well, this shimon Kossiba was his name, Bar Kokhba,
did not think of himself as the Messiah.
This is something that was imputed to him years after the event.
What a lot of people think about Jesus, right.
Well, a lot of scholars don't think he actually claimed to be the Messiah, to be the Messiah.
But years later, people made that claim for it and then put it into it.
All right.
But in any case, even those scholars who do think that Bar Kokhba thought of himself as the Messiah
will will claim that, well, by by Messiah, he was he meant just some military
Messiah that's fighting for the restoration of of autonomy for Judea.
And he's not he wouldn't have been thought of along the lines of like the the New Testament Messiah, right.
But in fact, if you look at more of its contemporary Jewish literature,
like the books known as for Ezra, Second Baruch,
you will see that actually this is how Jews were thinking about the Messiah to come.
He is a messianic figure that comes from heaven and descends and carries out the war,
right, and crushes the enemies of God and that is Rome, right.
And that's in fact what you see in the book of Revelation, right.
When Jesus returns according to Revelation, he's going to be the same type of figure.
He's this warrior Messiah with the sword, which is the word of God, which is reflected in Paul, right.
And he comes down and destroys the enemies of God, which in the book of Revelation
is also the Roman Empire, right, the pagan Roman Empire and the pagan religion of Rome, right.
So it to me, it makes perfect sense that the church fathers actually were spot on
on this, the Barca did think of himself or he was thought of as this celestial Messiah who descends
and fulfills the messianic prophecy.
So he's just not he's just not a regular human being.
There's something special and celestial about him, right.
Avril worked out on a daily level, who knows, but that was sort of the the theological,
Christological, or if you will, Messianic way of thinking.
You see it there in four Ezra and second Baruch.
So this is we, this is our best evidence for how people would have thought of Barcochba.
He would be like the Messiah that we read about in that more or less contemporary
Second Temple of Acolytic Literature, right.
Now it's interesting Barcochba government, if you will, or this revolt, they actually
started minting their own coins.
So we have a lot of Barcochba coinage.
Now what we see in a lot of it is, is that he abbreviates his name.
His name is Shimon.
It doesn't say Barcochba on the coinage.
On the coinage, you only see his name, his birth name, Shimon Simon, right.
And that's from the verb to hear in Hebrew to hear.
Now what what Shimon did on his coinage was he abbreviated his name with the letters
Shimon, which then actually spells the imperative of here, that is here, right.
And that's the first word in the daily, the Jewish daily profession of monotheistic
faith knows the small Israel, which is, which is taken from Deuteronomy chapter
six, verse four, which opens small Israel, hero Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one.
That's Shimon.
I mean, and that's what to this day you call that profession.
It's the Shimon.
You just call it the Shimon.
So this is how, and that's cognate, right, with Shimon's name.
So he was abbreviating his name on its coins in order to make a link with the daily
profession of monotheistic faith.
So he was a warrior.
He was a symbol of Jewish monotheism, a warrior for Jewish monotheism.
But I personally think it went deeper.
As if you look in the Gospels, you will see that the Shimon Israel, hero Israel,
the Lord our God, the Lord is one, is the basis of the dominant Christian doctrine
of the Messiah, right, who is put on sort of a celestial, almost divine level, right.
And the way that's done is you see that in the Gospels, it links.
I don't want to go too far into this.
But this has reverberations even into medieval Kabbalah, right, but it's very interesting.
You know, the first, I'll try to be very quick about this.
In 1 John 5, there's a famous interpolation, right,
which is the Father, the Word, and the Holy Spirit, and these three are what?
Famous interpolation known as the Johannine comma.
Right. The fact is that in the medieval era,
Kabbalistic Jews took that language and used it in their own Kabbalistic writings
and applied it, right, to the three highest of this throat, right,
which are these realms within the divine nature, right.
And so it's sort of their response to the Christian doctrine of the Trinity, right.
Say, well, you say the three are one, well, we say the three are one too,
but it's not the Father, the Word, and the Holy Spirit.
It's the Jewish, Kabbalistic, right, the three highest realms of the divinity, right.
So they appropriate the Christian language for specifically and distinctly Jewish ideas,
just the way that earlier the Christians had appropriated Jewish language from the Cana,
from the Cana, right, for distinctly Christian ideas that were acceptable, unacceptable.
In any case, now, the Shema says, hero, Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one.
You have two instances, two mentions of Lord, right.
So what the Christians did was they linked that with the two instances of Lord in Psalm 110.
The Lord said unto my Lord, right, and in the Gospels that's interpreted as well,
the Lord, that is God said unto my Lord, the Messiah.
So the Messiah is also Lord, right.
There's a lot that can be said about that.
It's not as open and shut case as Christians might think, but in any case,
I think that the Barcocpo coins can be coordinated with this.
He is linking his name to the Jewish profession of faith.
And the later Medieval Kabbalah, when it talks about humanity in divine terms,
or even the Messiah in some divine terms, right, in a very different sense than Christian theology does,
but, and I can't go too far into this because this is esoteric law,
and a very sacred teaching, right, in Jewish mysticism.
But I think that Barcocpo is actually
hinting, right, that he is, right, to be associated with the divine name, right,
the tetragrammaton in the daily profession of faith.
So the Messiah is
a second mention of Lord in the tetragrammaton.
Just go back and send us into the Messiah, what?
Yeah, so the Messiah is being hinted at in the second mention of Lord,
or the tetragrammaton in the Shema Israel.
Here is the Lord, our God, the Lord is one.
So the idea was that, and in Christian terms, like in the Gospel of John,
this was like appropriated, like the father and I are one, right?
So that's interpreting the two instances of Lord in the Shema Israel, right,
as the father and the son, the Christian father and the son.
So Medieval Kabbalah does something very similar, right, but also very different,
but it does something similar.
And I think there was an anticipation of this already in the Barcocpo revolt,
and the Messiah was being thought of as this sort of quasi-divine figure, right,
that emanates or originates from God.
That's interesting, not in the Christian sense, you know,
but you have to understand Jewish mysticism to know what I'm giving at here.
So I'm just going to leave that on the level of suggestion, right?
But in any case, certainly by creating a link between his name and the Shema Israel,
he is presenting himself as a symbol of Jewish monotheism
and a warrior for Jewish monotheism as the Messiah.
Now, after the revolt was crossed by Rome, and it was much worse,
much more devastating than what happened in the first Jewish war.
Really?
Yes, it was mind boggling, according to all the sources,
is much worse.
The casualty, the casualty, the Jewish casualties were far higher.
And, you know, genocide experts do call it a genocide.
What Hadrian did to the Jews when he quashed the Barcocpo revolt
at a place called Bitar, which was the headquarters of Barcocpo.
It was a tragedy.
Just like figures go to like one million dead, you know, rivers of blood and all of this.
Of course, it might be slightly exaggerated, but probably not too much.
Because even the non-Jewish writers presented this way.
It was just a tragedy beyond conception.
And for Jews, it did become that as well, because with 136, the common era,
Jews then entered into exile for two millennia until the creation of the modern state of Israel.
So, that's what did it.
They never recovered until the 20th century.
Wow.
But there's something interesting about this, if you want to think about the so-called Jewish
Christians, followers of Jesus, probably didn't even call themselves Christians,
but followers of Jesus remained faithful to the Torah and to certain vision and the
classroom to our very loves.
Palmytsky has written, he's a German scholar, has written in German, right?
This is not translated, but in German, he's written and he's argued that in book Revelation,
chapter 11, right, we have a famous passage about two witnesses who are martyred for God.
He claims that these two witnesses are actually alluding to Bar Kokhba and his priest, Eliezer,
who Eliezer, the priest, is also mentioned on some of the Bar Kokhba poem, how we know about
Eliezer, the priest, right?
Because if you're going to try to rebuild the temple, you're going to have to have a priest,
right, a priesthood, right?
In any case, I mean, it's also possible that some of these Jewish followers of Jesus saw
Bar Kokhba as the return of Jesus, right?
So it's very possible.
And in fact, it was some scholars pause it and then make a good case, in my opinion,
that it was a reaction, as a reaction to Bar Kokhba's defeat and his death, that the Jewish
idea of suffering Messiah was created, right?
The Messiah of Joseph or the Messiah of Ephraim.
And so, you know, that gives you, that makes for an interesting twist to this story,
because the Church Fathers just flat out demonized Bar Kokhba, but so do the later rabbis,
because they have turned him into a false Messiah, because he was defeated,
he didn't fulfill the prophecies.
But I think that in the years, immediate years after his death, he was probably seen as a
national hero and justified through this new trope of the suffering Messiah who falls in battle,
right?
Who is contrasted with the Davidic Messiah who will be successful.
And so, sort of like the idea of two Messiahs, right?
And you have versions of that already of Qumran, right?
More than a century before, they're two centuries before the idea of the two Messiahs,
one Levitical, one Royal.
So, one, and that's, I think, you can connect that with the John the baptizer in Jesus.
John the baptizer is the Levitical or the preachly Messiah.
Jesus is the Royal Messiah according to, you know, one possibility.
And in any case, it could be that these huge followers of Jesus, really some of them,
right, actually, perhaps, they have suspected or hoped that this barcopa was actually the return
of Jesus, right?
I think it's dead ring, permanent dead ring.
He argues that even like in Mark, right?
Mark 13, the little apocalypse is sometimes called when it refers to the deceiver, right?
This actually is a reference barcopa.
So, right?
Because the rabbis then turned his name Kossiba and played around with a little bit,
changed pronunciation just a little bit, to make it sound like we're, Aramaic,
we're from the liar or the deceiver, right?
And so that's how he's known in the Talmudic literature, right?
Which is the same, that's the same standard phrase in the Christian
tradition for the Antichrist, both prophet and all this, is the deceiver, a liar, right?
Be that as it may, it's, I have my doubts about that because I do suspect, as a growing
number of scholars do, that actually, at least the Torah faithful followers of Jesus,
some of them actually may have embraced barcopa, right?
And by seeing him as sort of the return of Jesus perhaps.
But there you have barcopa, right?
So yeah, I guess my comment on this would be, it sounds like to make a claim that this is
about the barcopa revolt in 136 in Mark.
I'm not saying it's not possible because I know dead ring has more extreme views than
the common scholar that are out there and Dr. Price loves checking out his material and stuff.
To me, it's almost like I'm not a scholar, so don't take it, you know, wrong.
I'm just being critical, right?
And saying what I think, and what I think is, it's like, there's so many of these messiah type
people that have come around, people even that are equated to Jesus and acts that are like
guys that are leading people astray that people are following.
I'm going to split the Jordan River.
We're going to defeat the Romans.
Don't worry, you know, all these things that are happening.
And you have Josephus as a count of real crap happening with messiah like figures that are
and then barcopa comes after Josephus.
And it's almost like, to me, could it be about it?
Sure.
It's just like, how would you know there's so many of these people?
Right, because they were right, because all of the messiah claimants even in the first century
are also considered deceivers.
Right.
So it's, you know, it's the standard trope.
Which was one of my issues when I heard of Professor Eisenman's view.
Don't get me wrong.
He could be right.
I mean, I don't know.
But when he runs against carbon dating pertaining to the Dead Sea Scrolls,
I'm no expert.
I'm just pointing out like, all right, they never really mentioned people by name.
Everything is nameless.
There's code names, you know, people of light, people of darkness, sons of the enemy, you know,
liars, deceivers, all these things are like generic terms that could be used today about people.
So to say this is first century and Paul is the liar and the deceiver,
what if that's just a trope?
How do we know this isn't first or second century BC around the time of,
or BC around the time after the Maccabeean revolt that takes place?
How do we not know that there were similar claimants that were going on that might, you know,
this growing development that's taking place and this tropes been going on for 400 years,
let's say, three, 400 years, they've been running around saying,
you're a liar, you're a son of darkness and the same things going on.
It's in the air.
It's hard for me to say, we know who and we know when and we know how it's complicated.
Well, I accept the general dating Dead Sea Scrolls myself.
But then again, I think that some scholars have been too hard on Eisenman because I take
a middle position, which is that, well, whereas I don't accept his dating,
I do think that scholarship in general tends to not see the actual degree
that some of the Dead Sea Scrolls did influence the early Jesus movement.
Right.
And so James, I don't see him anywhere in the Dead Sea Scrolls, but I do see some
agreements and some parallels.
So I do think some of the Qumran, or even the non-sectarian writings that we have in the Dead
Sea Scrolls, influenced.
No, right, to people in that early movement, the Jesus movement.
And so you can make a connection between the scrolls and the early Jesus movement in that way.
But at least that's my take.
A lot of scholars would agree with me, I think.
But then some, of course, there would be different disagreement on the degree,
right, to which some of these Dead Sea Scrolls have influenced, let's say,
certain Testament texts or other early texts.
I got a buddy, Christopher Lawson, who's a huge fan of Isaman for a long time,
and I even did an interview with him.
Isaman's getting up there in age.
So to do interviews with him, it's difficult, but he will be remembered,
obviously, as a legend in his research.
One of the things that Christopher Lawson did bring up is linguistic similarities between
the the sectarian Dead Sea Scroll text and Paul.
And what he did is not that Paul's using the same linguistic similarities in the same way,
he flips them on their head.
So he goes and shows that, like, he's using similar, the sectarian children of light,
children of darkness, you know, the similar motifs that you'd find in the sectarian literature,
but he makes who they are the opposite, almost like he he's taking what the children of light
would be is these Torah observant, strict sectarian Jews who are pure, holy, clean,
and really about, you know, God and law and the enemy is Rome.
And he makes the people who are pro-Roman more Hellenistic, more open to eating non-Kosher,
you know, like, let's get along with our neighbor type thing and our neighbor is Rome,
and makes them children of light, whereas children of light before were sectarian,
holy, separatist and whatnot, and xenophobic even at times.
And so I just thought that was interesting.
I don't know this.
I'm just telling you what he says.
There's even some striking parallels in language, which is with the Dead Sea Scrolls,
and even though the Deutero-Pauline letters, right, but I mean, what's the,
it may be just coincidence, it or it may be in some roundabout way.
And that's not necessarily any direct literary connection going on there.
But I mean, they're definitely right.
Even in the Deutero-Pauline literature, you'll find some striking, you know, agreements.
Well, let me ask you one last question on this.
I think this is an important one.
All right.
This Simeon Simon-Cocca, Simeon Bar-Cocca, he is a messianic figure, claim it,
whether he claimed it himself or others.
Let's just say that doesn't matter.
Let's just say it doesn't matter.
Either way, he was known to be something like that kind of figure.
Jesus, not the Christianity Jesus, not the deified, mythologized Jesus we have.
But what we would think of a historical Jesus, if there was one,
the one that you would say is a rebel-like messianic type claimant,
whether he was really going to go to battle Rome or whether he thought,
we just got to start it and the angels of God will come, whatever.
What are the similarities between these two figures, if you don't mind, in real history?
Yeah, in real history.
Well, I mean, that's, as I've intimated before, that's complicated.
But the fact that we don't have a more or less contemporary historical
account of the Bar-Cocca revolt, which we do have for the first Jewish war,
from Josephus.
So, with that qualification, you could just spend time and try to make a list.
The first come up is that, well, all right, some similarity is that
there are a lot of scholars who think Jesus never claimed to be the Messiah,
that that was a claim put into his mouth only later.
A lot of scholars, if not most scholars who do think that
Bar-Cocca was thought of as the Messiah would probably believe that he didn't think of himself
as the Messiah.
He did that too, yeah.
I tend to think, though, that Bar-Cocca probably did think of himself as the Messiah.
And because one of the reasons why a lot of scholars say, well, no, he couldn't have,
it's because we, as you may know, have several actual letters from Bar-Cocca
were found in caves, right?
We have actual letters, right?
And these, I happen to do daily operations for the military.
And also, well, you know, we're the Citron and the Lola for the Feast of Tabernacle,
for the Feast of Tabernacles, we need that.
So obviously he's a spiritual person, he's a faith, he's a traditional Jew,
he's also a military leader.
But most scholars that I've met say, well, I mean, he's just, he's a military leader
talking about everyday things.
He couldn't have thought of himself as the Messiah.
But you see, that's a really biased way of looking at things, as if the Messiah
in Jewish way of understanding could not be a figure like that, who is just, you know,
someone who could write letters.
I mean, if he's a war leader, he's going to have to write letters about orders
and what to do with this group of prisoners or whatever.
I mean, just because he's talking about everyday things, he can't be the Messiah,
that doesn't make any sense to him.
Right.
But his perspective doesn't make any sense.
So, sure, he couldn't have thought of himself as the Messiah.
We will never know.
It could be that he didn't until the, you know, he got into the war and got into the
thick of it, right?
And, you know, we can't know, right?
But one thing is for sure, he was a so-called seditionist that he took the sword.
He fought.
As far as Jesus goes, what we do know is that he was executed for being the same,
for being a seditionist, for wanting to do what our Kokema did.
Now, of course, Christians will object to that and say, well, that is why he was executed,
but there were false charges.
Right.
And that's the problem.
And you get to Kelsus.
You get to these guys who are debating with origin and other contra-Kelsus and whatnot.
And I'm glad that we have preservations in their work.
I mean, this is speculation, but it's an interesting speculation that makes a lot of sense.
And my good friend Dave Allen mentions this.
He believes that he was using maybe the testimony in Flavinium that was obviously not the one
we have.
Of course, he has a negative one.
He believes that was like a reconstructed version.
But with the perspective, and I just launched today, your video on the testimonium.
So if it is negative, it makes sense.
If you look at what just happened around the time of origin, you see this guy or Kokema come up
and you're like, dude, all of Rome has got seditionists written all over the place.
Guys like this are seditionists.
They're bad guys.
They're robbers.
They're this, according to the perspective of Rome.
The Romans are looking at them like terrorists.
And so here you have, you know, Kelsus, who's obviously in line with the Roman view, that
perspective.
And he's telling these other guys, your Jesus is a seditionist.
He's a sophist.
He's someone who's tricking the people and he's got a band of robbers and thieves with him.
He's arguing against someone like origin.
Do you think Bar Kokpa played an influence on the mindset of someone like Kelsus when writing
on behalf of arguing against Jesus?
And he sees Jesus just like he sees Bar Kokpa.
Oh, sure, sure.
Sure.
He's looking at it not as a Jewish Christian thing, really.
Well, to a certain extent, he is.
But what he's saying is that, right, the lead up to that is, right, those two and actually three
Jewish wars, right, in the past, right, in the 60s and 70s, right?
And then in the 1517, the titles war, and then 131, 156 of Bar Kokpa revolved to these
series of Jewish uprisings, right?
So he is linking Jesus to that series, right, as being, right, and in anticipation, right,
at an earlier period.
And so, sure, yeah, yes, that's exactly how Kelsus is thinking, right, of the origin
to Christianity.
And of course, I think he's well aware that, you know, the Christian movement at that time,
the vast majority of it, the great churches, all the Pauline type of movement, right,
they're probably pretty oblivious to it all, right?
Wow.
The actual true history of how it all started.
But he believes he has the real history from Roman history, you know, books like Josephus,
and then afterwards, of course, you know, Theo Asius writes about Bar Kokpa long after the event.
Yeah, I wonder if there's more we just don't have, like in, you know, some of Kelsus,
some of Kelsus sources would be Jewish sources that were reacting against
Jews who were joining the Jesus movement and abandoning Judaism.
We can talk about that.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, other sources that some scholars have sort of dug up, either really.
Excellent, excellent.
Well, thank you so much.
I don't know.
Is there anything else you'd like to say on this topic before we go?
Oh, that's everything.
I appreciate your interest.
Yes, sir.
Well, ladies and gentlemen, go down in the description.
Show Dr. Zinner some love, and I really do appreciate you joining me on the show.
And don't forget, we are MythVision.
