Be sure to check out MythVisionPodcast.com.
Help MythVision grow guys, become a Patreon member.
You guys will get early access to all my videos when I'm done editing them.
Also it's a small community where you guys can message me your questions and talk to
me in private.
You guys can also donate through PayPal and Cash App.
Join the social media links down in the description.
We have Twitter, Facebook, all sorts of social media.
Help the community of MythVision grow.
Hit the subscribe button, hit that bell so you guys are notified every time I do a live
video and you don't miss any of my content.
We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
Your host, Derek Lambert.
I appreciate you guys tuning in.
I have Samuel Zenner, Dr. Zenner's joining us today.
Yes, he's a PhD and we're going to be continuing to talk about Simon Barcochva.
I think I'm saying that correct.
Samuel, am I saying that right?
Sorry, Simon.
Simon.
Yeah, I get the name Simon Simon, sometimes a little mixed up, but we're going to be talking
about how he has connections with the Gospel of John and how the author of John knows about
this Simon of Barcochva, if you will, this guy that held, he had a revolt that took place
in 136, if I'm not mistaken.
Correct me if I'm wrong.
132 to 136.
Okay, so four year revolt that ended up worse than what happened in 70 AD that Josephus
accounts for.
Yes.
Awesome.
And so the only difference is we don't have a historian that's documenting from the Jewish,
you know, there's always two sides to every coin.
And there's not a Jew historian on the par of Josephus that is writing the histories on
behalf of the Jews.
Yeah, we're getting history, but mostly from the Romans, if I'm not mistaken.
And it's never really from a view that a Jew is taking the perspective on.
Am I right?
You're correct.
But also, even from the from Roman historians, we don't have anything that's written immediately
after the revolt, it's long, everything is written long after.
So that's the real difference between first Jewish war, right, where we had Josephus writing
the history of the war almost immediately after it ended, more or less.
But we don't have a similar situation, similar, more or less contemporary sources for the
second Jewish war that the Bacchokra revolt.
Right.
Wow.
So take us into what you were going to talk about because Dr. Robert M. Price, you know,
he has entertained this theory, he has mentioned it in passing on our channel, but we've never
done like a discussion on it.
And I think it was you, he was mentioning that you and I know that there is other critical
scholars that have made comments of the New Testament having some of this Simon-Simon-Barcokpa
connections to it.
And one of them was, I believe, Herman Dettering, and he made mention of this scholar as well.
But you also believe there's something here.
So John's definitely late in the game, according to me and many of the scholars that I've looked
at, I mean, and that's pretty much consensus even across the board, even conservative Christians
like to date John, you know, a little later sometimes, but depending on how conservative
they are.
What are your thoughts?
What's going on?
And where are the connections, if you don't mind, or maybe you want to build your case
up?
No, sure.
Yeah, I'm not the only scholar who's claimed that Bacchokpa is alluded to in the Gospel
of John.
The verse that's always cited is John 5.43, chapter 5 verse 43, I have come in my father's
name and you do not receive me.
If another comes in his own name, then you will receive.
And so a lot of critical scholars have claimed that this other who comes in his own name
that will be received by the Jews, whereas Jesus is not received by the Jews, it's an
allusion to Bacchokpa.
And actually, most scholars who make this claim just cite the verse and say, well, right,
this looks like a pretty strong allusion to Bacchokpa.
But as far as I know, no one is really, you know, built up a case, right?
Where's the evidence for this, right, the only one verse, right, which I think is really
flimsy ground stand on if you don't have anything else.
And so what I did was compiled the evidence that I'm going to be talking about that I
think reinforces, right, and supports the suspicion that Bacchokpa is alluded to in
this verse.
And it's, for me, it's an interesting topic because in the end, I think that we could
see the interplay or the mutual influences of Jewish, the quote unquote, Christian ideas,
right, around the time, right, that the Gospel of John was published, right.
And in any case, what you start off with is the Bacchokpa coinage, right, because this
revolt, right, they were organized enough to actually meant their own coinage through
this revolt.
And the name of the leader of the revolt is Shimon, right, in English that would be Simon,
right, Shimon.
It's a Hebrew name, the verb, right, that this name is built out of is the verb for
to hear, right.
And it's a very famous verb because the Jewish daily profession of faith, if you want to call
it that, right, it's called the Shema, right, the Shema Yisrael, and it starts off in Deuteronomy
64, here of Israel, the Lord of God, the Lord is one, right, so here, Shema, right.
So this is cognate to the name, the Hebrew name, Shimon, right.
So what Bacchokpa did, right, Bacchokpa is a title that's given to him in the literature,
which is Aramaic, which means the star, right.
So this is his title, not his actual given name.
So his name is Shimon.
And on his coins, he abbreviates, he usually abbreviates his name, and he, right, so he
uses the first three letters of his five letter name, right.
The first three letters, such as Shin, Mem, and Eileen, right, these actually spell the
imperative for here, exactly as you find it, right, in Deuteronomy 64, here, O Israel, Shema,
O Israel.
So what Shimon Bacchokpa was doing, was creating an illusion, right, on his coins, right, between
his name and the daily professional monotheism that Eriju makes twice daily, right, which
begins in Deuteronomy 64.
Is that clear so far?
Yes.
All right.
His name is connected to the Shema, to the hero Israel, our Lord is one, you know, yes.
Right.
So I mean, that could mean many things, I think, on the, you know, the most plain level or exoteric
level, that would probably mean that Shimon Bacchokpa is presenting himself as the symbol
of, and the defender of, right, Jewish monotheism, as it's daily expressed in the Shema, right.
But what's interesting, all right, is that, all right, we go back to this verse in John
chapter 5 verse 43, I have come in my father's name and you do not receive me.
If another comes in his own name, him you will receive.
So all right, if this is referring to Shimon Bacchokpa, then that would make sense in light
of the coins, right, because of what he's the theological usage he's making with his
name, right.
So this verse in John could actually be referring to this practice on these Bacchokpa coins.
But the point that is interesting is this, in, that's John chapter 5 verse 43, it is
in John chapter 5, right, where the verb, the Greek verb for here, first becomes theologically
and statistically prominent in John.
In other words, as you're reading, suddenly John chapter 5, that section has more instances
of the verb for here, and they're more theologically charged, right, than in all the previous chapters
and most of the following chapters.
And now, all right, so there's something that complements that, and that's that the same
pattern fits for the verb and the noun forms for witness.
This term witness is also very important theologically and crystallologically in the Gospel of John,
right.
It starts already in John 1, for instance, he says that John the baptizer came for a
witness, right, to the Lagos, to these two Esas.
And the fact is that it's also John chapter 5, where the verb and noun forms for witness,
right, for it's also become theologically and statistically most prominent.
Now, what's the significance of a witness, right, in relation to Bacchokpa and Revolt and
everything you've been talking about?
Well, it's this, right.
When you look at the Hebrew text of the Shema Yisra'el, the first line,
Shema Yisra'el, right, Adonai Elohim Adonai Echad.
The last Jewish tradition,
one, you broke out, you broke out for a second there, Jewish tradition, right, Jewish tradition
singles out the first and last words of the Shema Yisra'el, the first line from
Deuteronomy 6-4. So Shema here and Echad, one.
And what you see this, even in the Torah scroll, in that verse, the last letter of that first
word here and the last letter of the last word Echad, right, that'll give you an ayin and a ballot.
Now, those are written larger than the surrounding letters in a Torah scroll,
and what rabbinic tradition does is to join those two letters together to form the word
witness, right. So the idea being that you are, when you say the Shema Yisra'el, you are
witnessing to the divine unity, to the truth of monotheism, even, and it means that you witness
to it and you're willing even to die, right, for that truth. Instead of deny it, you're willing
to die, right. So in Hebrew, just as in Greek, the word for witness, right, like in Greek,
and in Latin, right, it's basically when we get our word martyr from in English. So the
witness and a martyr, right, are etymologically coincide, right, in Hebrew and in Greek, right.
Wow. Right, so the verb for here and the verb in noun form for witness, right,
becomes statistically most prominent in John chapter five, right, the same section, right,
which has this verse that's been cited, right, as an apparent allusion to Bar Kochba and how he
used his name, right, to promote his Messianic program or revolt, right. I've mentioned this
before in our last talk about Bar Kochba, but I'll repeat it again. When you look at the
Gospel of John, you find this prominent trope, right, I and the Father are one. So the Jesus
was Messiah, right, and God, the Father, are one, right. And I'm not the first scholar to claim
this, many scholars claim that this is actually based on the Tzema'i Israel, right, because it's
hero Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. So the Lord, right, which in Hebrew, there's the
tetragrammaton, the sacred name of God, the traditional Jews don't pronounce, right. They're
substitute with Adam and I, or they just, you know, say the letters, the four letters that
constitute that name. Now, so it would seem that what the Gospel of John is doing is saying that
the Messiah and God are one, and it's rooting it there in the small Israel, saying that, yeah,
the Father is the first Lord mentioned in hero Israel, the Lord is one, and the Son is the second
instance of Lord, right, that verse in the Ramayana 64 in the Shema. Now, also anyone who's talking
about the Gospel of John will know that the truth, right, the word or the concept of truth is
theologically important in John, right, and famously, right, Jesus is made to say in the
Gospel of John that he is the truth, right, the way in the life, he's the truth. So truth is
theologically important in John, but also the Shema's conclusion, right, because there are three
paragraphs to the whole, second to the whole prayer, all recitation, and the final, the conclusion
begins famously with the word image, proof, right, so that's also a congruent, right, with
developing John's theology, Christology based on the Shema of Israel, right, and also
John chapter 17 is one of the high points of the Gospel of John, that's the so-called
high priestly prayer of Jesus, right, before the crucifixion story, his long prayer that he gives,
and it's thick with allusions, right, to Deuteronomy 6.4 and the verse following, right,
and what those are about, it's the Lord our God, the Lord is one, and then, and you will love the
Lord your God with all your heart, etc., right, and in that prayer in John 17, Jesus is pointing out,
right, the oneness between himself and God, and the oneness that those two have with all believers,
right, those who believe in God, those who believe in Shema of Israel, right, so what you're having
there is, there are two things, right, the unity, the concept of unity, right, is rooted in Deuteronomy
6.4, right, that the Lord our God, the Lord is two, or even three divine names are one,
the emphasis on love is first rooted on, right, the love of God in Deuteronomy 6.5,
but it's also rooted in this teaching that John gets from the synoptics, right, that Jesus says,
the greatest commandment is Pharaoh Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one, and you will love
him, and then the second commandment is the same, right, which is you will love your neighbor as
yourself, so this is what John 17 is being based on, so you see, right, it's not as if John, right,
is the first one to use the Shema to develop theology and Christology in the Gospels,
right, you have it in the earlier Gospels, right, Mark already has Jesus claiming that the greatest
commandment is, right, the Shema Israel, Pharaoh Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one, and you
will love the Lord your God, right, so now here's another vital point, right, we started off with
John 543, which, which, right, so many scholars quote, right, about apparently this Shimon coming
in his own name and being accepted by the Gospels, but the very next verse, right, it says you do not,
Jesus says you do not seek the glory, right, of that comes from the only God, right, the one God,
right, so this is an allusion to, again, Deuteronomy 6.4, so in these two consecutive verses, you have
an apparent allusion, right, to Shimon Bar Kochba and the, the, the proclamation of the one God,
right, in Deuteronomy 6.4, right, do you understand that? Yes, all right, all right, so there's these
multiple layers here. Now, moving on from John, right, Eusebius, a really famous church
father and church historian, right, he writes the Bar Kochba, right, was guilty of murder
and robbery, right, so you have to understand that the Christian church fathers have only
bad things to say about Bar Kochba because for them, only Jesus can be the Messiah and any
one else who thinks he's a Messiah or that others have proclaimed as a Messiah, right,
can only be false Messiah, right, so Eusebius says that Bar Kochba was guilty of murder
and robbery, right, now if you want to find a parallel to this and God spoke down, it's really
easy, that's John 10, 10, the thief comes only to steal and kill and to destroy, and that's just
like 20 verses before, right, John 10, 30, I and the father are one, right, again,
but something being based on the small Yisra'el, right, Eusebius also tells us that Bar Kochba
claimed to be a light, right, descended from heaven, right, and of course that's how the
Gospel of John starts out, right, we're all about light, right, but it's insisting that Jesus,
not John the Baptist or what's the light, but there could also be, I think, this implicit
polemic against Timon Bar Kochba, that Jesus is the light, not Timon Bar Kochba, right, and
because Bar Kochba means the star, so this is based on the famous Messianic prophecy,
the number it's 24, that a star will come out of Jacob, right, and so there may be an implicit
polemic against, right, this astral luminous imagery, right, associated with Son of Bar Kochba
in John chapter one, that famous poem as it's called, that emphasizes light so much,
this is interesting, yes, and even after the revolt, right, it failed, and so Bar Kochba gets
a bad name, even in the rabbinic literature eventually, and they play on his name and they
turn them into Bar Koziba, right, which means the liar, right, so he's the deceiver, all right, so
what does this remind you of in the Gospel of John, right, the devil is a liar and the father of lies,
anyway, the last point to make here, which I find particularly interesting is that
the most scholars will deny, right, that Bar Kochba thought of himself as a Messiah,
so they think that this is something that's imputed to him after he dies in 136,
when the Romans quashed the revolt, right, but even those scholars who do think that Bar Kochba
may have thought of himself as a Messiah, right, or that others were thinking of him as the Messiah,
most scholars doubt that they're thinking of him as the Messiah in the way that Christians
thought of Jesus or think of Jesus as the Messiah, right, but I attended out this because,
again, other scholars have pointed this out, actually, if you look at the more contemporary
Jewish literature about the coming of the Messiah, that would be for Ezra, right, to Bar Kochba,
right, the way that the Messiah is depicted in those writings is very similar to, let's say,
the way Jesus is depicted in the book of Revelation, right, when he comes back, he'll come out of the
sky with armies, right, so he's a celestial figure, right, with the sword and the word of God, right,
and so he's just not an ordinary human being, right, and this is the way that for Ezra and
second Baruch also talk about the Messiah, so if people were, if Jews were thinking of
Bar Kochba as the Messiah, for Ezra and to Baruch give us the best clues of how they would have
thought about his messianic, added to his messianic nature, and for Ezra 13 is one of the most
interesting visions that Jewish apocalypse written in the 90s of the Common Era, and one like a son
of man comes out of the heart of the sea, right, and scholars, right, have pointed out that him
coming out of the heart of the sea is an allusion to Jonah, so the son of man of course comes from
what, Daniel chapter 7, but the idea that the son of man would then be like Jonah coming out of the
heart of the sea, what does this remind you of, right, this is like the gospel of Matthew where
Jesus says he will be in the heart of the earth, or in the belly of the earth for three years and three
nights, when Jonah was in the heart or the belly of the well, right, and so Matthew is probably just
a little later than for Ezra, and I don't put it, I hold up the possibility even that Matthew
could have derived this idea about Jesus or the Messiah, right, being this Jonah figure,
actually for Ezra, because if you look at the same chapter in for Ezra, you read this prophecy of
the apocalypse that's coming, and the quote, nation will fight against nation, kingdom against kingdom,
right, and then the sign of my son will appear, or he will come, this is word for word what you
find in Matthew 24 in the so-called synoptic apocalypse, right, so we actually have a match
in a lot of wording, right, between for Ezra 13 and the synoptic apocalypse, right, the earliest
version being in Mark 13, and then Matthew kills it out a little, Matthew 24, then Luke, you know,
rearranges things even further, but in any case, all right, there you have it, I don't think it's
conclusive, all right, I don't think it, this, all of this proves that John 543, right, that you
don't accept me, I tell him my father's name, you don't accept me, but another will come in his own
name and you will receive him, everything I've said, it doesn't prove that's what I call, I think
for the first time, right, there's at least some supporting evidence, right, that we can
invoke, right, to say that it can grow and supports the gays, and so I'll leave it at that, right,
so anyway, that would mean, right, that I date the Gospel of John, and I personally don't believe
that there wasn't, you know, there's only one published version, one version was published,
right, now I do think that there were some drafts, right, that were written slightly earlier, right,
but in any case, these were all then redacted, and then finally they were published, right,
after the Bar Kokpa Revolt, but sometime after 136. Wow, okay, I only have one question for you in
light of this, because this is interesting, hypothesizing if this is talking about the
Simon Bar Kokpa Revolt, I really think the one question, if we were like in a court of law,
right, and you go and you present your case in front of a judge, one of the problems, for example,
with the Stephen Avery case, which you may not even know or care about, is they think he was
like set up, someone framed this guy, right, and he like, he is like claimed innocence, and he was
previously proven innocent for a rape case, and he got 18 years because the cop didn't like him,
well, he goes to case and his defense attorneys did a good job showing like the evidence was
tampered with to some degree, possibly even by the police officers, however, they didn't have a
candidate to say who was guilty, and therefore he seemed the most plausible and probable of
committing the crime. So my question is this, is there someone else that could have happened prior
to Simon Bar Kokpa that would fit the bill? I understand Simon Bar Kokpa definitely was a major
figure, his name connects to the Shema, you know, we've got this is really good interesting
circumstantial evidence that can prove he's the guy. My question is, was there John and Gascala,
were any of these major players prior to prior to the 132 to 136 revolt in the 7080 area or even
right there around the wartime that were claiming Messianic, I don't know, some type of Messianic
claim. So I guess what I'm trying to get at is either way, if John wrote this after 136 or it
was published after 136 and he was aware of the Simon connection to the Shema and he's kind of like
polemically arguing against this guy, my one question to you would be ultimately, is there
anyone prior because if it was written after this happened, it could have been, you know,
is written after the 7080 revolt, could it be referring to any of these figures that lead up to
or post 70 right there in that time where the Jewish wars takes place that Josephus talks about?
Oh, theoretically. Did any of them act like they were messiahs like Simon? Sure, we had, sure,
Josephus tells us about the various Messianic claims. Sure, we know that, but the none of them
can be tied to, for instance, why is it that when scholar reads John 543 about the one who
comes in his own name, why is it that they think of Simon Barcochba rather than these other Messianic
figures? I think there's a good reason for that and one and it's the reason I do it as well is
because when you read that, it sort of fits the bill for not only the fact that we have all
the traditions that Simon Barcochba was a Messianic figure, but it's his coinage and what he did with
his name, Shimon, and linking it to the Shimonist trial and then how that fits in with the rest of
the main theological, Christological tropes of the Gospel of John because those main tropes in the
Gospel origin from the synoptics of the synoptic Gospels and so everything really does start to
appear to actually fit together. The one that you would office the bill with the highest degree
probability would be the Shimon Barcochba. You really couldn't, like I say, see the
trope, the Johanin tropes that seem to fit the age, the time period of the revolt and these
tropes are actually absent from the synoptic Gospels. Well, ladies, of course, if you talk about
a law case, and of course, when you talk about scholarship, you're not talking about
necessarily proving something. It's very infrequent that historians prove this or that. What you
have to do is just sift through the evidence and try to establish degrees of probability.
This is not a law case. You're going to determine someone's fate, whether or not you're going to
visit or not. Yeah, I wasn't meaning it in any of that. I guess what I'm getting at is like,
is it possible? No, this is interesting because it's less probable. That Shema thing is a big
connection that I think is interesting. What do you guys think down in the comment section?
You watching, tell us what you think about this connection here. Do you guys think there's something
going on here? I think that Samuel Zimmer here, Dr. Zimmer's having a hoot here and I think this
is really an interesting thesis. We all figure, at least those who are critical here that watch
MythVision are aware that John's late. How late? Well, is it this late? Could it be written around
this time? I mean, Dr. Dennis R. McDonald, I think dates John around 120-something, so he's late in
the game, right? And that's the final version, of course. He does think there were drafts that
were before that. And he believes in the earliest form of that draft, there's a lot of Dianne
Nicene connections, but he believes there are three layers to this John or Johanna tradition in the
John Gospel. So, I definitely think that it's very likely that the final publication definitely
could have come after this with the inclusion of, you know what, let's finalize our Messiah as this
Jesus and take the fangs out of the Messianic rebellion, if you will, Judaism, so to speak.
It's taking the fangs completely out of that, and it transformed this whole thing, this movement
into a Jesus is the divine at this point, you know? So, yeah, it's something to mow over and look into.
Is there any other evidence, or is this pretty much the case right here, what we have?
I think this is pretty much the case. And what I would emphasize is that even the most conservative
of scholars, whether or not they're Christian or secular or whatever, I mean, the most conservative
of scholars accept church tradition, which puts the publication of the Gospel of John right close
to the year 100. So, I mean, to claim that it's 36 years later, it's not radical at all. That's a
good point. I mean, that's not, that's not radical at all. You know, it's just, you know,
36, 36 years. I haven't even lived on planet Earth that long. So,
you know, I'll get there one day. But anyway, Dr. Zenner, how can people check out your work?
Go to the EDU link down in the description, and they can email you, they can find your email.
Okay. Yeah. And then, yeah, my word, my S-Zener WordPress.com site also will take you to,
you know, all my websites. I'm thankful that you brought this to our attention. And what I love
about you is you bring stuff that nobody expounds on in these kind of details. So, thank you so much.
I can't wait to see what you have next, because you always have something going on. And I really
do appreciate you joining me here on Mythfish Podcast. And everybody watching, hit that like
button. You guys, make sure you guys subscribe and hit the bell so you're notified every time I
drop a video. Our internet connection where he's at on Mars isn't getting great satellite connection
to Earth right now. So, that's why we have me doing the video this way, whereas usually I would just
use my Zoom link. And I hope you guys were able to tolerate looking at my face this whole time.
God knows if you haven't turned into stone yet, because my middle name's Medusa,
hey, you got the gods working for you right now. So, with that being said, I love you guys. Thank
you so much. And don't forget that we are MythVision.
