Welcome back to MythVision podcast.
I'm the host, Derek Lambert.
I have Dr. Darren Slade with me today.
How are you, sir?
I'm great.
Thanks for having me.
First time on MythVision, I get to take your virginity,
but I serious note, who are you?
Tell us a little bit about yourself, your background,
so people know who you are.
Yeah, my name is Dr. Darren Slade.
I have a PhD in the history of religion.
So I specialize in the sociopolitical development
of religious and philosophical belief systems,
mostly from ancient Mesopotamia, the ancient Near East,
all the way up to the Greco-Roman period
and the start of the Christian era.
That's me.
I love this stuff.
Yeah, oh yeah.
I'm also the president of the Global Center
for Religious Research, and I am the lead director
for the North American Committee on Religious Trauma
Research.
So I just wanna give you a welcome to MythVision
and welcome everybody in the chat for tuning in.
I hope you hit the like button.
Be sure to check out the website that I pinned at the top
and also vote, have you, or do you think you suffer
or suffered from, excuse me, from religious trauma?
That is in the chat.
We'll check the poll out at the end.
In the meantime, there's a few website links
that I'd like to share with you that are in the description,
but to point out, you can go to the general website here
about religious trauma.
We're gonna talk about this here, GCRR.
I've actually given us, at your conference, I spoke there
and a lot of the stuff on this page, Dr. Slade,
I actually, like I check off, especially this stuff right here,
deep or chronic shame about being personally responsible
for Christ's death or being a sinner
or not living up to expectations,
feelings of unworthiness, being unlovable or bad in some way,
rejection of God or in the faith community, lack of self,
I mean, all of these, like so many of these things check off.
So I hope people will check out your links,
go to your website and find out how they could support
or even get maybe help for this stuff.
Do you guys offer that?
Yeah, absolutely.
We have a ton of resources for people who are current sufferers
or survivors of religious trauma,
but we also actually certify clinicians all over the world
to help train clinicians, that's psychiatrists and psychologists,
that's therapists and coaches and also pastors, ministers,
people in professional ministry.
We certify them and help them identify the symptoms
of religious trauma, help them understand what happens
to the brain and the body with religious trauma,
what are the contexts, maybe even some of the doctrines
that perpetuate religious trauma
and then of course the best therapeutic practices.
Okay, everybody knows the links are one of them's pin at the top,
they're down in the description,
if you're not watching this live now,
we also have the Patreon, look, I've been busting my hump,
dropping these Richard C. Miller videos
like I promised to my Patreon members
and there are several out already
and I'll let Atheologica, Derek Bennett be my witness here.
He is highly impressed with the edits
and the quality of the content.
The only one that is public is this one.
I mean, we're talking everyone's wrong, goodbye, SBL,
that one's already public too.
Jesus fables, demons did it, just another demigod
and of course today's live stream,
but anyway, I've got, I don't know,
let me see, one, two, three, four, five,
probably 10 to 12 more videos with him
and then so yeah, thank you for the Patreon members
and also we have the course website,
mvp-courses.com, several academic courses.
You could take 18 lectures with Kip Davis
on the real ancient Israelite religions,
reading one eye on Greek poetry
and the gospels with Dennis R. McDonald.
I have a New Testament studies for everyone
with Richard Carrier.
I've got creating Jesus on the gospel of Mark,
literally going through the whole gospel mark
with James Tabor, the historical Jesus quest,
going through the whole history
of New Testament criticism and all that kind of stuff,
with Del Cialis and Junior,
ancient Greek mystery cults with them, David Litwa
and we are building onto this.
I've got two coming out soon with Robin Faith Walsh.
I've got two more coming out with Egyptologist Karakuni.
Just stay tuned, I've got several others
that I'm also gonna be editing
and putting up with other scholars.
Thanks for all the support.
I hope everybody tuning in and hits the like button
and enjoys this episode.
So Dr. Slade, we're done with the shameless plugs.
Now we get down into the nitty gritty.
Is religious trauma real?
Oh yeah, absolutely.
It's definitely real.
And this isn't just something,
some kind of a woke thing either
where we're just being overly fragile either.
We have now the empirical data to suggest
that certain doctrines and certain religious contexts
are in fact debilitatingly harming people.
And so we have some science to back that up.
Yeah, so the Global Center for Religious Research,
we just conducted the world's very first,
most exhaustive sociological study on religious trauma.
It took almost two years of peer review and revisions
and it was done by an international team of specialists
in the field that's sociologists and psychologists.
And when the numbers, we just released the first set
of numbers a couple of months ago.
And the numbers suggest that here in the United States,
one in three US adults have had religious trauma
at least at some point in their lifetime.
And that as many as one in five or about 20%
of the population currently suffer
from multiple debilitating symptoms of religious trauma.
Can you go into some details about what kind of doctrines
seem to be the number one red flags for this kind of trauma?
Yeah, you know, there's some surprising things
when it comes to the doctrinal parts
and not so surprising things.
So things like original sin seems to be in the top five
of what we hear the most.
This idea that you are inherently evil
or inherently worthy of burning in hell.
And so there's something that is not right with you
and that is why you tend towards sin.
That's why you masturbate at night.
That's all these things.
And so you're the problem.
That seems to be the number one.
And, you know, there had been some surprising doctrines though,
things that I didn't anticipate coming up.
CNN actually did an article on us not too long ago
about rapture anxiety.
And what we are finding is that a lot of people
who have been taught and indoctrinated
with this rapture belief have a lot of trauma and phobias.
For instance, people who are afraid of heights
because of the rapture or they're terrified
that at any moment Jesus is gonna come back
and catch them doing something
and they won't be raptured.
So these doctrines are creating constant pervasive anxiety
and depression in people.
I had multiple dreams and that checks off one of the boxes
you have on your website.
I had dreams about the rapture twice, woke up crying.
One was fire.
And I'm gonna relate as we go along
to kind of give people a connection in some way.
I'm sure, I'm certain.
There are several people watching this
who are going to go, yep, I have had this or that
or something similar, it may not be identical
but they're gonna relate.
And I ask the viewers to try to relate
and try to see if you fit into this somehow.
But fire was coming down, the whole sky was covered in fire
and then it was coming down and I was gonna burn me
and then all of a sudden I disappeared and woke up.
There's this guy with a feather pin who's whispering,
Derek, everything's gonna be okay now.
Like, and I'm like, oh, it's Jesus and I'm good.
But then the other one was lightning bolts were striking
and I was in a thunderstorm just sitting
on the front porch watching it and then it hit me
and then I'm like floating up
and I'm looking around and all these people
are connected to lightning bolts.
And so those are two little dreams
that I remember vividly to this day from my rapture days
when I believed in the rapture.
It's kind of odd though that that would be one of them.
I would have thought hell itself would have been number one.
Yeah, absolutely.
It's definitely ranks high, absolutely.
The notion that you are at risk, constantly at risk
of displeasing or pissing off the man upstairs
and he is going to have it out for you.
He's going to punish you.
When you have that instilled inside of you,
however it comes, whatever direct theological point
that it comes in, if that's what you're...
You froze.
Bear with us, ladies and gentlemen.
Oh, you froze up for a second there Slade, we missed you.
I'm sorry about that, I saw that.
Something about angering the man upstairs and then...
Well, so it doesn't matter what theology,
theological point of entry that fear comes in
when you are constantly under shame and guilt,
you're going to end up debilitating a lot of people.
So that's a big one.
I mean, I've had issues with all of these.
So what else are you hearing?
I mean, what are some of the other issues
that go along with religious trauma?
Because I can't imagine it's just doctrinal.
I mean, okay, yeah, I have this theology in my head
of like, I believe that there's something
you can convince yourself that stuff is true that isn't.
Hence, evident hell, that kind of stuff.
But what else plays a role in religious trauma?
Well, it might help to understand what trauma is first.
Because when we talk about religious trauma,
we're just talking about trauma.
And this is trauma that has occurred
within a religious context.
So trauma is an event or a series of events
or circumstances that a person
or an individual feels as overwhelming
and is disruptive to their nervous system
that then leads to adverse,
lasting adverse effects on them and their wellbeing.
So for trauma sufferers,
you can think of the big ones like PTSD.
Some, a soldier goes off to war
and gets PTSD after surviving a firefight, right?
That could be akin to an altar boy
being molested by a priest
or being raped by your dad.
And yet your dad serving as an elder at your church
and receiving all these accolades and praises
from the congregation right before your eyes.
It could be getting beat as a boy, as a child.
And your parents using the Bible to justify abusing you.
So you have the big traumas, right?
Things that we typically think of.
But trauma can also be a lot more insidious.
And that could be things like the doctrinal stuff.
So I'm just being told growing up that every sin I do,
I'm murdering Jesus on the cross.
And that's a big one that we hear a lot of.
Or it could just be,
and this isn't to minimize the more insidious ones
because the impact is the same in a lot of ways.
But it could be growing up,
always happen to hide your sexuality.
That you are a member of the LGBTQ community
and you already know that you are going to lose everything
and be ostracized and shunned from the religious community.
So it could build over time
or it could be one major impactful event.
Wow.
Yeah, that seems to be far reaching.
Not just limited to religious stuff, of course.
It could be in any type of circumstance,
trauma could be there.
But this is religious related
that you're actually finding the statistics on.
I find this interesting.
So you are in communication
with several religious people themselves
and trying to help ministers and others.
How do you think that's going in terms of the impact
that that's making amongst the religious?
Yeah, as expected, we're hearing two voices for sure.
The one voice is the ultra-conservative religion
can do no wrong, Jesus heals everything kind of crowd.
And so when we put the numbers out there,
when the research comes out
and we're talking about this stuff,
we definitely get some hate mail and blowback
we're seeing as the antichrist and this and that.
And that's expected.
These are already people,
religious and religious ministries
that are so entrenched in their way
and the status quo
that you really can't teach them much anyway.
And they're hopefully on the way out.
Hopefully those types of mindsets
and organizations are dying.
The other voice, and this is the good news,
is that there are a ton more professional ministers
and priests and rabbis
who are more and more aware of the possibility
of causing religious trauma in their ministry.
And so they want to be trauma-informed and more aware
so that they can prevent it
from happening in their own congregations.
Now, personal question.
I know there's a level in which you have to cooperate
and work with people where they're at.
And that's something I try to do as well.
But on a personal level,
do you feel like in some cases,
you're up against the wall
because they're almost like their creedle confessions,
they're doctrines where they,
like they're shooting themselves in the foot.
Like, hey, I want to prevent trauma,
but I have to tell them this message
that's going to create trauma or, you know what I mean?
Like...
Yeah, you know, I don't know
if I'm shooting myself in the foot or...
Not you, but if they are.
Okay.
You know, I don't know.
I guess the first thing that pops in my head
is what's the alternative?
Because we want, if they're going to exist,
if they're going to stay in ministry
and they have a message that they're going to still preach,
then maybe we can help them figure out a way
of doing it so human beings
aren't getting harmed in the process.
And perhaps it does open some doors
for critical thinking and re-examining
some of the real toxic beliefs that are out there.
I agree with you.
I just kind of wondered,
if I put myself back in my shoes
when I was teaching the Word of God,
you talked about the hyper-fundamentalist,
conservative Christian, that was me.
That was you.
And like, I would like, how's it,
I don't know if I would even cooperate with you
because I'd be like, hey, the Word of God says,
and like, so I'd go with what I saw the Bible
seemed to say and then read that.
And of course be like, all men are liars, you know?
God is true.
Spare the rod, spoil the child, right?
Find ways to still spank.
By the way, I used to spank my oldest.
And I think that there's impact
from those traumatic situations even with him.
And I feel kind of a guilt,
but it's a guilt that I know I can't change.
I could just be the best dad
and the better dad that I can be today.
But yeah, like there's a lot of things
that came from that kind of lifestyle.
I just wondered how that works for you.
But I imagine people who are more open to the science,
open to the reality that we live in this world.
This is a real thing.
The Bible does not tell you exactly how to live
in every shape, way, or form of your life.
That maybe that could make an impact somehow
in the religious communities.
Cause I kind of look at it like, I'm trying to be fair
and say, okay, several Christians
are obviously far more progressive,
far more open-minded to the world around us.
And they're not fundamentalist,
but do you kind of wonder about the source?
Like, do they need that source?
Is the question I keep coming back to in my head anyway.
Yeah.
And maybe people will come to realize,
if this thing is so pervasive,
and yet it comes from oftentimes Christian churches,
not exclusively, doesn't have to be evangelicals.
But if it is in fact coming out of evangelical
and conservative or high-control environment,
religious environments, like Catholicism,
hopefully people are reexamining and saying,
maybe this thing isn't as good as I think it is,
as wholesome as I think it is.
Right.
And I'll tell you,
when it comes to trauma, being trauma-informed,
our biggest goal, and this is across the board,
we want to let people know that there are resources
and help that's out there,
that you actually can do something about your trauma.
So if you are a pastor and a minister,
and you still need to preach the word of God,
you know, the one thing I hope
that they will walk away with is
that the Bible and prayer are not ever
going to heal the trauma.
It is impossible.
And it isn't because of an outright denial
of miracles and the supernatural.
And that may be the case, obviously,
from a personal perspective, that's the case for me.
But you cannot talk yourself
or think yourself out of trauma.
You have to see a trauma specialist.
And you need to get into things like EMDR
or somatic therapy,
or things like the psychedelics that are working a lot,
psilocybin and ketamine treatments, things like that.
Specialized clinicians who are trained in trauma,
that's the help you need.
You can still go to church,
still be a Bible-believing Christian,
but go see a trauma therapist too.
You know, what's interesting about what you said is,
it not just applies to trauma,
but if I could tell myself advice when I was younger
and I was going to these youth groups,
and I've said this publicly, it's personal information,
but I'm kind of just this open book
because there's so many people when they hear it,
they're like, that's what I go through too,
but nobody's saying it out loud.
When I was a young kid going through puberty,
sexual sins, pornography, wanting to hook up with a girl,
like doing whatever boy stuff is.
And I'd go down to the little youth group prayer session
where they're like, if you need prayers for any sins
that you're hiding or you're struggling with
or you need help with,
and I'd make that shameful walk from the bleachers
at my high school where we had the Trojans for Christ thing
almost every day.
The only reason I didn't go every day
is I wanted them to think, at least I made it one day
without, but it wasn't true.
But they weren't doing that.
This is what's odd.
All of these youths, I mean, we're talking about 30, 50,
depending on the day, young teenage people in high school
going down there to get prayer
and part of this youths for Christ, Trojans for Christ group,
like very few ever went down there to get prayer
for what I'm describing here, sexual sins,
and no praying, no amount of Bible research,
nothing I could do could get me to stay away
or not do that.
And if I could give my advice to myself,
it'd be like, there's nothing wrong with this.
You know, like tell myself, like convince myself
to not live in that insanity for years
of abuse in my mind about this worldview,
letting God down, not living up to his expectations.
Am I really his son?
Am I really a child?
Am I gonna be going to heaven?
Am I gonna go to hell?
The list goes on and I mean, it was just living
in the flesh, right?
So that was the, that was that worldview,
but it's hard to know, like here's your Bible
and then here's what you naturally are prone to do.
And I struggled with that forever.
It was just insanity.
Yeah, absolutely.
And this is the case across the board,
is you're never good enough and the thing,
either you yourself or the things that you do
are just so bad and you're the problem.
You know, I relate to that.
As I'm a survivor of extreme childhood abuse
and I have what's called complex PTSD
because of the prolonged exposure to violence
and abuse as a child.
What we now know is that trauma survivors
have certain symptoms and this can reflect
your four responses to life and death situations, right?
Your fight or flight or your fawn or your freeze modes.
And when people get triggered by things,
they respond automatically in one of these four ways.
So the fight mode, people lashing out in the anger, right?
It looks like rage and it looks like people
just have an anger problem or they bottle themselves up
and they seclude themselves and they cannot break out of it.
So it just looks like chronic depression
or just looks like they're antisocial, things like this.
And these, what we now know about trauma
is that this is actually memory tissue
in your nervous system.
It is literally a part of your nervous system
and in fact, your body is working correctly.
So there's nothing wrong with you
when you're lashing out and going through this,
when you're having a triggered response,
when you're being activated.
Your body is doing exactly what it needs to do
because it thinks it's in survival mode.
And for me, when I would get angry at something,
something stupid, and then I would go pray
and I would read the word and I would meditate
or I would fast year after year after year struggling
and the shame and the pain of always going,
how come the Holy Spirit hasn't healed me yet?
How come, is my faith not great enough?
Have I not tithed enough?
And realizing that the prayer and going to church
and all that stuff was never going to heal
that's the trigger responses,
I need to actually get into therapy
and work on the nervous system.
So just relating, there are things
that aren't going to change through potions and magic spells.
Yeah, and that's, so it's like, how come,
I'd ask those questions like, why?
Why can't this just stop, you know?
Why can't I just pray and it goes away or just,
and it was like, I was fighting against
what was totally normal, which is making me kind of wonder,
like, I love what you're doing,
you're trying to help really reduce harm
and help people to get better in life,
but this is kind of why myth vision
has evolved to what it is because it's,
part of me wrestles with saying, have your beliefs.
I'm not here to change your beliefs.
That's not my goal to be able to enter into your house
and say, all right, no more.
That's not my goal, but part of me wants to go,
how do you not see the inherent evil
of some of the stuff that is in this book
that you're wanting to somehow reinterpret or translate
or whatever into it, make it better?
But then there's some things that they don't
and they just accept and think that that's really true,
like original sin we talked about or whatever it might be.
I wrestle, I wrestle between the human empathy
and meeting people where they're at and just going,
you don't need this.
Like they may have used it.
Part of our evolution is the thing that we've come up
with religions that systematically unite us
and give us laws and codes and how to live, what to do.
We don't need this is kind of how I feel like screaming it
from the rooftops.
And once you figure that out, you're like, whoa,
I'm even happier now than I ever was.
I feel more fulfilled than I ever was.
Why did we do this to ourselves?
So anyway, there's my last text.
Yeah, it's actually so much about our psychological evolution
as a species that are carryovers, right?
They're leftovers from a pre-scientific
and prehistoric age when our lizard brain
still acts like the lizard brain.
And it's not very well adapted or conducive
for modern living.
And I would say that that definitely plays a role
in things like religion and superstition.
It's a carryover for sure.
And what we're finding is it does do an incredible amount
of harm for a lot of people.
So you saw my little presentation
at your conference that you had
was talking about the science behind this.
And as far as GCRR is concerned,
you're specifically targeting trauma in people,
specifically religious trauma.
Maybe you do more than that.
But in what way would you say some science plays a role
in our understanding of the religion
and what we've learned about humans and stuff?
Can you take us into the science side
of all of this a little bit?
Yeah, actually.
Thankfully, we have a growing amount of data,
of publications and research out there
on mental health and religion.
So it is very true that religion can in fact
be a very positive thing psychologically.
So we do know that people who routinely meditate
or pray and go to church and have that community
tend to have lower blood pressure,
live a little bit longer,
don't have as much suicidal ideations,
but that doesn't tell the whole story either.
We do know that certain contexts,
religious contexts and belief systems,
what we might kind of call high control environments
where think of like maybe purity culture, right?
Those types of high control environments
are in fact going to be extremely toxic.
We know that religion does not seem to stop racism,
doesn't stop premarital sex or teen pregnancy
and kids who are indoctrinated
throughout most of their childhood
don't seem to fare as well as adults
who have the ability or have been exposed
to more critical thinking and education.
And so you get both a mental stuntedness,
an intellectual stuntedness,
whether or not being trained to critically think things
or to question stuff.
And you're also being told to hand everything over to God
or if you are depressed or feeling anxious,
it's because of your own sin.
It's just God, the spirit convicting you.
That easily leads to maladaptive behavior later on in life.
Now, have you had any cases of atheists?
I'm curious to know who might have trauma
through the idea of nihilism or something
like they have no meaning or purpose
and they feel like I need a myth, I need a story.
I feel traumatized by the constant rhetoric
of there's nothing and there's no purpose.
You know, whatever, have you had anything like that?
No, but we're also not looking for that
because that wouldn't be within the scope
of religious trauma.
We have a ton of atheists,
we've encountered a lot of atheists
who used to be believers and they've been traumatized
and so they've deconverted.
But keep in mind, trauma can happen anywhere and everywhere.
So it's not just, religious trauma
isn't just some unique little mysterious phenomenon.
Trauma happens everywhere to a lot of people.
And so yeah, I can imagine that there probably is
some atheist or secular humanist out there
who's been traumatized
because of a secular humanist community.
Thank you for that.
I wanted to ask you personal question.
I hear you went to a university
where Gary Habermas was, is this true?
Oh yeah, yeah, my PhD is in,
I studied under Habermas in Resurrection Apologetics
and it did not take long for me to realize
what a crock of shit it was.
It was, it didn't take long at all.
I'm an academic through and through.
I love academia, I love scholarship.
And so I read copious amount of publications
and having walked in to my doctoral program
thinking the resurrection was definitely
an historical event, but then coming to learn
that all of the arguments, apologetic arguments
in defense of it was not intellectually honest
in the slightest.
They admitted so many logical fallacies
or they had either minimized
or just completely denied the counter evidence,
the actual scholarship that's out there.
And that's how they get away with the apologetic arguments
is just don't expose people
to what scholarship actually says.
You ever had any arguments with Gary?
Yeah, two actually, I had two class debates with him.
Yeah, and it was interesting.
I was reminded, Derek Bennett told me this
and that's why I brought it up.
I went to a little Carolina,
it was called Carolina Bible College.
They changed it to Carolina College of Biblical Studies
in Fayetteville, North Carolina.
And I would debate or argue, if you will,
with some of these professors.
They came from a more Baptist background
and I was becoming reformed
and I had all these predestination passages
that I was trying to hammer on them.
But I was like, we'd also debate the other students.
So I heard Derek say, you also had that problem as well.
You seemed to challenge other students
while you were there.
Oh yeah, constantly.
I was the devil's advocate for sure
and would always point out things,
but I got along great with all my professors
and my classmates.
So it wasn't, although after one debate
I had with Gary Habermas,
my classmates actually had petitioned him
to have me kicked out of the class.
Because he doesn't believe in the resurrection,
I can't believe.
And that wasn't even actually our debate.
Our debate was on the Gospel of Matthew
and how Matthew's portrayal of the resurrection
doesn't seem to,
it's more of a nuanced debate.
It was more of this prolific kind of,
I was just tossing out an interpretation,
but they were so offended that I did not defend
the traditional interpretation of the resurrection
from Matthew that they thought
I had no business being in school at all.
And he actually had to give a public little statement
to the class telling them to chill out.
Yeah, he's supposed to be writing some tome of a book
coming out on resurrection stuff.
And I know that Inti Wright also,
he's written several books as well
and they're all kind of doing similar things in a way.
But I just wanted to make that highlight for audience
to know that you've been trained underneath these guys
and bumped into some of the big apologist names
in the Christian community.
Where do you see GCR are going with this?
Do you think at the end of the day
it's just simply trying to target,
like you said, traumas and everything
and you're trying to expand beyond
just the religious part of it?
Or what are you aiming for?
Well, our state admission is academic research on religion.
So the religious trauma part is just one facet
of the major stuff that GCRR does around the world.
We have anthropologists and we have historians
and philosophers and we have counter apologists
as well as ministers, people who are writing biblical
commentaries and stuff as well.
So we do the whole gamut
as long as it is academic would meet peer review.
Our state admission is just to give a platform for scholars
because as you know, especially in some of your recent talks
with other scholars that there are gatekeepers everywhere
in SBL and in other places where they kind of prevent
a lot of academics and scholars
from being able to publish their stuff.
And especially if it just doesn't fit their narrative
and we want, at GCRR, we wanted to chain that
on its head, turn it on its head
and give a platform for scholars
and make the research accessible to the general public
so that more people can be fed true information,
true scholarship, not just what some Ivy League people
want you to know.
Yeah, like Dr. Richard Miller and his video
that's on Patreon, it's not public yet.
His point, I think in the SBL thing was that
they're inviting everybody and everybody can come
and keep in mind majority of the students or PhDs
who are out there to give lectures
are coming from like I signed a waiver saying
I have to be a believer in order to attend this college
and now I'm up here giving a theological lecture
that is probably somehow bent in the direction
of Jesus really rose from the dead
and this is the true faith.
Whereas he was interested in trying to get SBL
to say let's have a secular section and a religious one
or a theological one and a historical one,
separate the theology from history
because we want the real facts, the data,
we aren't interested in your theology mumbo jumbo.
And as Dennis R. McDonald said,
he considers theology a four letter word.
And he says, you can keep your theology,
I want nothing to do with your theology.
I want everything to do with accurate historical research,
give me the scholarship that's not giving me some fluff.
And that's his issue with SBL.
After four hours of talking to the president at SBL
on the phone, because that guy contacted him,
he realized real quick he's barking up the wrong tree
and that there's nothing they're gonna do anything about it.
So he doesn't think that SBL seems to be fixable.
As far as he's concerned on accurate,
like giving real rigorous, we want to get the facts.
They're more into interfaith dialogue and oh, okay, okay.
So you come and you present your truth
and we'll present our truth and we're all true.
And it's like, you know.
Yes.
Right.
You know, so that's the thing that we're seeing
with a lot of academic societies and publishing houses.
And this is why GCRR was started in the first place
is academia is incredibly exploitative,
especially of the researchers and the scholars
doing the groundwork.
The reason they're not gonna want to break,
you know, SBL isn't gonna wanna make divisions
and break things up because it might mean a loss of revenue.
It just will be a loss of money for them.
They wanna keep everybody happy.
At GCRR, the only thing that we want to be happy
is the truth or facts.
And so we will, I mean, we've had
interreligious dialogue conferences at GCRR and stuff
and we challenge each other.
We wanna get up there and say, let's push back now.
Let's actually challenge and confront
and give counter evidence and counter arguments.
So yeah, I'm not surprised.
Yeah, I just figured, you know,
give a little data backing up what you're saying here.
It's not just some conspiracy theory.
There's like legit problems all over the board.
Is there anything we didn't cover
that you really thought I should mention
about religious trauma when we covered doctrine?
We discussed, you know, some of this stuff
is like physical abuse type situations,
sexual abuse type situations.
Anything that we didn't mention that might need to be said.
Well, definitely check out our webpage
and you can see a lot more of the details and information.
Some of the striking things that came out of the report.
One of them was how many people
and upwards of 11% of the respondents
said that they do not have religious trauma
so they don't self-identify as having religious trauma.
But then down the line with the follow-up questions,
follow-up questions identified for themselves
as having extreme multiple lasting effects
from religion, anxiety, fear, depression, nightmares, shame.
So in other words, upwards of 11% of our respondents
actually contradicted themselves.
When we asked, do you have religious trauma
or have you had it?
They say no.
Of course.
And they say, but I have a lot of anxiety
because of trauma, because of religion
or I have nightmares because of religion.
And then you add up all the symptoms and you say,
yeah, you have religious trauma.
So this required us to explore
why did they not say yes originally?
And this is because, and this of course goes for
a whole bunch of different professions and avenues in life.
Soldiers are notorious for this very thing as well.
People don't want to admit that they have trauma.
They don't want to admit that something might be wrong.
Like a weakness or something almost.
There's some of that for sure.
There is a stigma behind it, or for some people.
If they were to admit that their religion has harmed them,
what does that mean about their God?
What does it mean about their faith?
Are they in apostate now?
Some might be worried about losing salvation because of it
or losing just their friends and family.
I've been in talks, so we have an upcoming
religious trauma conference in the beginning of June.
Right.
And we have some wonderful presenters who are,
who work within the African-American community.
And it's been really, really enlightening to learn
just how taboo it is in the black community.
And we're talking not just here in America.
I actually have contacts out in the UK who say
it's the exact same thing out there as well.
Talking about religious trauma or any type of bad mouthing
of religion or God or anything like that
is incredibly taboo.
And so, of course, you're going to get a lot of people
who say, nope, I don't have religious trauma at all,
yet they're suffering because of their religion.
This is why I struggle.
This is why I want people to see that they don't need
those things, that you could find communities outside
that give you as much fulfillment.
Sure, they're not gonna give you hocus pocus,
but you know, you could find other ways, I think,
to cope with the world we live in
because sometimes reality sucks.
And I get that escape into fantasy land
or giving ourselves hope and beliefs that are just contrary
to the reality that we face on a day-to-day basis.
I do want to show you something that I figure,
part of me wants to laugh and part of me feels really sad.
Just videos I've been launching lately, you know,
couple get a lot of attention of the conversions
of scholars, Bible scholar, Richard Miller,
Leaves Christianity, Bible scholar, Dennis R. McDonald,
Leaves Christianity.
And I get this email and I just want everyone
to kind of see what I got.
If I give the guys email, oh, well, he emailed me,
the subtitles, repent or perish, okay?
Mark, whoever he is, delusionalderic.dot.dot.
I rebuke him in the name of Yahshua.
Now you can't tell me this doesn't sound a little nutty.
I really feel like this is like, you know,
anyway, it's pretty crazy.
Here's the websites, of course, they're in the description,
but like, you know, wow.
Because that's used to be like that.
Yeah, I got one the other week and the person hand wrote
and they're saying, you know, to GCRR explicitly said,
I hope to cause a lot of trauma for people.
I hope people are traumatized by the word of God
so that they repent and you're like, man,
I know you don't know what you're saying
and you're ignorant as fuck,
but man, you're doing so much harm to people out there.
It's like, you remember Richard Dawkins opening his mail,
love letters from Christians.
Oh, if you have not watched that video,
you wanna laugh, watch this video.
It's sad, but it's funny at the same time.
You're a gaitiest.
Like they called him all sorts of weird names,
like mocking him, trying to,
or I can't wait to be watching from my,
maybe just watching from my tower in heaven
while you brew in God's broth of hell.
And like, dude, the imagination
on some of these people who hate him
because he's just an atheist who's a scientist
and like the kind of like, I can't wait to see this.
It made me laugh, but it also was like, yep.
And this is the same thing that recently
I've told Dennis McDonald, Darren.
Dennis McDonald's been living
in an ivory tower of scholarship for decades.
And at one point he might've been somewhat
of a fundamentalist way back in like the 70s, 60s,
but not even on the level that I ever was.
And then he's kind of being reminded
in his recent avenue,
kind of looking through the comment section
of his video of his deconversion.
He said, man, I've got some wonderful stuff.
And then he says, some of these people
are the most angry, hateful people I have ever seen.
And they're all religious.
You could tell because they mentioned something
in their comments.
And I said, now you know the war that I'm facing.
That's why I said this is war in a video not too long ago
and it got really blown up.
Got a lot of Christian apologists jumping.
What do you mean war in the language?
No one likes the language of war,
but we are in a battle, in a ideology battle
that I think if we were able to strip away
some of these necessary beliefs, doctrines
and behaviors and habits
that come from a lot of these religious contexts,
maybe then there'd be a lot less of this trauma
that would be coming up.
I think you hit it right on the head there.
That's the interesting thing.
When we do get some of that fiery visceral hate mail,
you actually may be witnessing a trauma response.
They may actually be having a trauma response
and they don't know that they have been traumatized
by their religion.
And that's the hard part is...
Oh, wow, let that sink in.
These people are hurting.
That's what I told Derek Bennett before we did this stream
because Derek sometimes will be snappy and hardcore
and he just doesn't play that crap.
And then I caught some slack on a Christian apologist channel
because I equated the way I,
and help me Darren, let's have this conversation.
This is important.
I see you pocket locker.
Thank you for that super chat.
We're gonna get to you here in a second, my friend,
but this is an important conversation.
I think we're finally getting into some real meat meat here
because everything we've said is important,
but here we're getting down to something
that is really my philosophy.
I have a recovery channel on YouTube,
almost seven, eight years ago,
coming on eight years off of heroin.
I was injecting heroin and dying from drug addiction.
I know what it's like to be trapped
and to wake up each day wishing I could stop
but needing that next fix, that next hit.
I know what it's like to be traumatized
and alcoholic father who was abusive as well growing up,
but I also know he never meant to do the things he did.
He was military, green brain, the special forces.
He was kicking indoors, jumping from 40,000 feet in the air.
He's a medic, halo instructor, badass.
He's Billy badass.
He was a modern day Alexander the Great in my eyes.
And I went through this drug addiction phase
and then I exited after a decade,
over a decade of struggling with addiction
and I started making this little like blog,
if you, a little vlog, I mean, like of like,
hey, I'm at day 27, this is what I'm doing.
This is how I'm staying clean.
You can do it.
It's possible, giving hope.
I'd get hate mail saying you're gonna die.
You're never gonna beat this thing.
And then I get mostly love.
You're encouraging me.
If you can do it and you're telling me you really did that,
I can make it and people would get clean.
So I saw love and hate.
This is seven, eight years ago on YouTube.
And over the years, as I started getting clean
and keep doing videos, I got hired by a rehab
that wanted me to help people to get into treatment.
So I started steering people to try and get help,
to go get help, get help, get help.
And I would talk to someone who'd be withdrawing
or they'd be high at the moment,
but they'd be starting to get close to withdrawing
off of opiates or whatever it might be,
meth, heroin, coke, crack, doesn't matter.
And I would convince them, like,
hey, you really need to go check yourself into detox,
get the help that you need, you need it.
The next day, as all the chemicals do,
they wear off or they need another fix
and they're back out there on the road
like nothing ever happened.
They ignore the advice and I'd get frustrated.
I get really frustrated because I know what they're going
through and why they keep doing it and can't stop,
but I also know they have to do it if they're gonna make it.
So I'm like, you're doing it to yourself,
but you're also not, you're not driving the vehicle.
And so I'm looking at the religious people
since starting meth vision, seeing the communication,
seeing the behavior patterns that look all similar
to what I'm seeing with drug addiction and I equate it.
I say, I have this empathy part of me
that knows that they're struggling or suffering
and I'm not saying everybody is,
I can't psychoanalyze everybody,
but I see these patterns and these behaviors
that mimic what I saw in that addictive behavior
I had as an addict.
And I sit there and I say, I wanna have empathy.
Even though I think that the world views
honestly not as pretty as they wanna paint it.
And they're trapped, the way I put it,
is they're addicted to Jesus in a way.
They're kinda stuck because they don't know
there's grass on the other side that's way greener
than the grass they think they're seeing.
Correct me if I'm wrong.
Is it, it seems to be the case that for a lot of addicts,
the internal change, that impetus to finally get clean.
When it comes from within,
it has to come because there's no other option.
They've hit rock bottom in a lot of ways.
Is that fairly true?
That's my experience.
At the end, I had my vehicle was about to be repossessed.
I didn't have any money coming in.
My wife kicked me out because we had
the Department of Social Services,
someone called in to the social services
to have my kids possibly be taken from the home.
So my wife kicked me out of my house.
So I'm living couch to couch.
I'm literally so bad off.
I'm stealing from a pawn shop to pawn it
into a pawn shop down the street.
I'm panhandling, I'm trying to find ways to get money.
Stealing was the most common thing.
You find a shed at night, I'll come back at midnight,
try and take a backpack blower or a lawn mower.
I mean, I can go down into the nitty gritty of addiction
and really give you the whole skinny.
I got a felony of larceny because of my addiction.
At the end though, I had a probation officer
because of that felony.
I was supposed to pay back my restitution and stuff
and go in and see my probation officer.
Wife kicked me out, vehicle was about to be done.
My health is going to shit.
I'm miserable.
I just made up a story that the dope man's gonna do
a drive by on my family.
If I don't pay him back 140 bucks that I owe him
for a whole gram of heroin.
I mean, I'm this really not a good person, not doing good.
I'm very sick.
My mom thought that they were gonna kill my family,
like I'm making up shit.
And it was all of this crumbling down
while going through the pain of the withdrawal and stuff
and finally committing to going to this lady's house
that over the next two, three days,
everything started to hit me and it was like do or die.
You either get your shit straight.
You are the pull your head out of your ass, Derek.
I felt like almost like, you ever watched Dragon Ball Z?
No, but I know of it.
There's a scene.
I'll give you one scene, one of the more famous scenes.
Goku, the main character who's a Super Saiyan,
but he doesn't know he's a Super Saiyan yet.
He's just a Saiyan.
His best friend Krillin gets killed by the arch enemy,
which is this Frieza guy, purple God looking alien.
And when he kills his best friend,
he knows that he either has to kill this Frieza
or Frieza's going to kill everyone he loves.
He either is going to do something about it
and it's now or never.
And I knew that it was that moment I hit that wall,
like you're describing, and it was Derek, die or live.
What are you gonna do?
And so I chose to live and I chose my next,
all I could control was the moment.
I couldn't control the hour.
I couldn't control the day.
They say one day at a time, I couldn't live in the day.
I had to live in the moment.
And it was one moment to one moment
while withdrawing off heroin and the most suffering pain
because I went into acute withdrawal.
There's all sorts of things.
I tried to pop us a box in.
It threw me into the worst precipitated withdrawals.
I mean, like it goes pretty bad.
So I'm giving VividDB to hell
because I want the audience to know,
no shame in my game, open source here,
but it's real.
I see some of that behavior on the religious side,
but I think the same could be said for God.
I slowly landed that plane though.
I didn't do or die with God.
God became kind of something that kind of dissolved into my,
like it became less relevant as I started to expand my mind
and my consciousness and awareness of the world
and world religions that made me go, what is God anymore?
Like, what is this thing I was so obsessed and addicted to
that I thought was the only way in the truth?
It just stopped being that serious.
Yeah, you know, I'm reminded of the concentration camp
prisoner, we don't know who it was,
but when he etched into the wall of one of the camps
that if God exists,
he'll have to beg me for my forgiveness.
I kind of wonder if you're right
and that there seems to be an addictive element to it,
for at least some religionists,
if they don't have to hit rock bottom
and the rock bottom being God not showing up,
prayer not working, the expectations
standing on his word and whatnot,
just not coming through.
And that's the rock bottom
before they finally like the concentration camp prisoner
saying, I'm done with you.
I'm done with you.
That is profound, actually, what you said there.
Two reasons.
It's weird you brought up etched into the wall there
because when I went to my detox a few years
before I relapsed again and then really ran my last run
in drugs, I went to a detox center
and I had a wooden desk there
and there was a man who said, hey, I left here.
I changed man.
I can't remember his name.
He had a nickname and a date.
And then etched under that again, this shit never changed.
I'm insane.
I don't know how to stop.
And he named himself and dated it.
Like he was back again and couldn't stop the thing.
But I think that might be true.
I would say for most in what you're describing,
it took me being hopeless
and realizing, Derek, you have to do it.
God's not gonna do it for you.
You know, the two footprints in the sand story,
I mentioned this often.
When you were weak, I carried you.
That's why you saw two.
No, dude, it was you.
It was your loved ones around you.
It was the people around you who loved you,
who cared for you.
It was you who cared for you.
Those are the real life, real things that helped you.
And I gave the credit to God
when I first got clean eight years ago,
praying and going, you know, please, I can't do it.
I don't have the strength, but I found the strength
and I kept going.
And it was when I looked back and retrospect
over that six months to a year of getting clean
that I realized God had dissolved into
this almost imagination in my head
where it was like, dude, it's you, Derek.
You had what it took, man.
Stop taking credit away from the things that you
and your loved ones and the people around you.
In fact, when we used to go to AA meetings,
we had a little slogan for those who were kind of atheist
but didn't want to profess it in the AA meeting rooms
because, you know, the big book has this chapter
to the diagnostic and they want to kind of
convince you God's a part of this.
That's how you're all getting sober.
You can go to NA and find God and all that.
God became group of drunks and acronym for G-O-D.
And so it was the group that kept us sober and clean.
It wasn't this divine father in heaven or whatnot
or this abstract metaphysical being floating somewhere
around us that is pulling the strings of the universe.
It was the group of individual humans and their stories
and us as social creatures connecting to them
that helped us to get clean.
That's why I think what you're doing at GCRR,
what we're doing at MythVision,
creating a community of people that you can connect with
to communicate, to socialize, I have Facebook groups.
I am on Twitter, but we also have a Facebook group
that's public and we have one that's private.
In case you don't want family members seeing your post
or anything, go to the private one and join.
But like, if it weren't for the groups,
I say this as an atheist today, right?
I self-proclaimed atheist.
If it weren't for alcoholics anonymous,
I don't know if I would have gotten sober and clean.
I went there five days off heroin,
sweat coming out of my hands and just miserable.
And I said, crying, I was crying.
I mean, like, I'm like bawling my eyes out,
begging people in there, help me please, help me.
And this man kind of chuckled.
He got me out of my little feel bad for me state for a moment.
Then he went, I know how you feel.
And he said, young man, you can do this.
And like, dude, it was therapy.
It was a way of me being able to make it
in one day at a time eventually.
So we just went into some real shit here on this video.
Well, and you know what?
God never showed up to put his hand there
and say, I know how you feel.
He didn't do that.
A human did.
A human did.
And that's the thing is for a lot of people,
you know, you can be traumatized just from having that hope
and expectation that God would come and rescue you
and help you and he doesn't.
I know that was the case for me.
This is actually what I had presented the day
after you presented with GCRR.
Mine was on.
You can be an atheist and still hate God
because you had this father figure,
this man that was supposed to love you unconditionally
and be there for you.
And then he didn't show up.
And it is like losing a dad.
It's like having an absentee abusive father.
Now you might acknowledge he never existed, of course,
but it's real.
The belief in him was real.
And it trained our body to have this hope.
And when he doesn't show up, you get hurt.
It's damaging.
And I always chuckle at the people that you see online
who are constantly praising God
and giving him the credit for their wonderful life.
Look what God did for me today.
Look what God did.
And of course, it's always the same people.
It's the same middle class, high middle class,
white folk or really successful people.
And they don't realize that just doing that
can actually harm a lot of other people
because if God is blessing you
and he's giving you all these things,
this great success here on earth,
what about me?
And what about all the people I know
who are struggling, who are dying,
who are starving to death around the world?
They are actually contributing to this pain
of I'm not good enough.
God must not like me enough.
Yeah, that whole, yeah, that whole thing's pretty bad.
Thank you.
You helped me find my car keys, Jesus.
Well, some starving kid in Africa
literally is dying right now as we speak
because they don't have water and they don't have food
or they're dying of a disease, malaria,
from being bitten by mosquitoes,
something that science is eventually
hopefully gonna solve.
That's what also blows my mind
is how far we've come with correcting illnesses
and diseases and death in the world,
coming to prevent it or at least keep it from,
prolonging the life so that you're not getting there sooner.
Cancer, I just had Gary Stone,
a buddy of mine who was an ex Mormon come over
and he's a wonderful person.
And he's like, Derek, we have now discovered
how to target the particular cancer cells,
turn them off genetically so that the mass stops growing
and your body over the coming months will eat that.
It will eat away the foreign object
and we can turn off cancer now.
We know how to do that.
What?
For thousands of years, Jesus came on the scene,
none of that.
And if you actually, here's the thing,
what's interesting is one could argue,
yeah, but that was never the point.
Remember, if you love this world,
see, here's that horrific ideology again,
hate this world to gain life.
True life is what comes after this,
not the one we live now.
That is the bubble that I was trapped in
and it was so much worse for me, I feel in many ways
because I went from escaping this world
through drugs and the traumas and reality
and then of course sex, this struggles of youth,
then Jesus and I'd bounce back and forth
between addicted to being religious and into the church
and the word of God and trying to obsess myself
to be as right with God as I could
and then find myself just being a normal boy
wanting to go to a campfire where there's some girls,
go flirt and have a beer.
And the beer turns into, I kissed the girl
and we went a little too far on the baseball field there
and I went home, home run, okay?
And now I'm hating myself and I might be cooked
by this all loving deity who wants to save everybody
but really is gonna burn people who aren't his children.
You know, where are you gonna go with that?
Oh, well, universalism.
Let's say he burns you for a little bit,
spanks you and then says, come into heaven.
Like that's the most common thing
that's starting to come up doctrinally,
I find amongst Christians,
is they wanna find universalism to make sense
because they realize, I think they're starting to realize
more and more how ridiculous the notion really is.
So we just covered a bunch of different stuff there.
Yeah.
I didn't know if there were any super chats.
Yes, there are.
Is that what the colored chats are?
Yes, sir.
That's right.
So we got one back here with pocket locker 86J,
two-time PhD biologist, by the way.
This guy, he knows about evolution,
like I'll never know what he knows about evolution,
but he's very smart.
Great discussion.
I was honored to be invited to the GCRR conference.
Keep up the amazing work.
We are myth vision.
Jay, love you, man.
Keep doing the work you're doing,
trying to help wake people up
and get people to be considerate
about things that we're not used to being considered
about socially.
He covers all sorts of stuff,
religiously, socially, ethically, politically,
all the above.
So go subscribe to pocket locker.
He's almost on every day.
And go tell him he came from myth vision.
M underscore H, true habit.
When I was a preteen,
I disabused myself of the fear and propaganda of the church,
went to nihilism for a time,
then found the gods of my ancestors
who don't punish their kin for disbelief,
which I could say the same for my mom.
Wish I could say the same, sorry.
Wow.
I mean, let me ask you this, Darren.
This is something interesting for me.
I feel like I craft a narrative in my head
where patterns seeking creatures,
we narrate our own story in our own lives.
It's totally normal.
I think this is the reason we put pen to paper
to begin with.
I think the reason we wrote stories
is our brains work in these patterns.
And so I probably feed myself
legends and myths of my own to myself.
There's no dogma attached to it.
It's Derek's own creative conscious thing.
And I actually, as an atheist,
as one who doesn't think there probably is a God,
really admire ancestral worship
or at least the honorific motif
of looking at our parents and our ancestors
and saying, thank you.
Thank you for being the human that came before.
You know what I mean?
There's something cool and noble.
I mean, we go and visit the gravestone, right?
We go and we wanna pay respects.
That is a form, I would say, of ancestral worship.
And so, I don't know, what are your thoughts
to someone who's skeptical like me about that?
These are wonderful brain hacks.
That's what they are.
It's absolutely okay to do brain hacks
to better your wellbeing.
You just don't want the myth to dictate.
You need to make sure that you still have
that plasticity for your brain, right?
The flexibility.
So you don't want to get locked into things
of good and bad as in if I don't do this to my ancestors
or if I don't honor them this way, then this must be bad
because there's so much gray
and nothing's gonna kind of fall into that black and white.
So that's like with everything.
You got a good brain hack and it makes you feel good.
Great.
If it gets too far and starts taking over your life,
not so great.
I love the way you put that.
And this is a way of compromise, I think,
because so often people think atheists,
just anti-anything that isn't, you know,
and that is not what I want to be seen or known as.
When I use the definition, I mean that
and literally I don't necessarily think
there are really a God or God's out there, right?
Just by that strict definition,
I literally don't think that's true.
I think men have constructed it based on our perception.
Xenophon, I think it was, I can't remember the name
the philosopher once said,
if horses could draw images of their gods,
they would have the head of horses.
They would look like horses.
Dogs would make them look like dogs.
Well, we have gods that look kind of like us.
I wonder why.
It's a psychological thing,
kind of like a hack of understanding the world.
So anyway, I think there's useful tools
to create imagination, fiction.
We do it with fiction all the time.
I love Marvel movies and all the cool stuff.
It's not literally true, but it has a truth to it
that is of a livable, applicable essence
that I could see even when I read the New Testament.
There's certain things that I go, I like that.
There's some things I go, no, thank you.
You know what I mean?
So I like what you said there.
If it dictates you and you don't have control,
then you might want to try something different.
No.
Thank you.
Oh yeah, go ahead.
No, go ahead, please.
Okay, Lebowski Jefferson, thank you for the super chat.
A pastor's kid for 30 years made this very relatable.
Deconstructing was rocky, but juggling life.
Arguing with my girl and hiding it from fam is hard.
Sorry, pastor's kid for 30 years made it very relatable.
Okay, so I think they're talking about our discussion,
made it very relatable.
Deconstructing was rocky, but juggling life,
so they're still doing it.
Arguing with my girl and hiding it
from fam is hard, wow.
So they're in a tough spot right now.
Boy, I can relate to that.
You know, I was recently asked if I,
going into the sociology study,
if I have religious trauma,
and when we first started the sociological project,
we did not, I did not think I had religious trauma at all.
And we start, so the idea
and kind of getting the team together started happening
just before the pandemic in early 2020.
And I had been a closet atheist for a few years,
but wasn't able to come out publicly yet.
Well, by the time GCRR got started,
I was able to come out publicly.
And sure enough, I lost everything.
Family, friends, my entire support system.
You know, my ex-wife at the time had abandoned
my two-year-old and me, and it was just her and me now.
So the deconstructing and having to be open about it,
and then hiding it from your family, it's a nightmare,
especially if you run the risk of losing everything
and everyone because of it.
And so, yeah, now definitely recognizing,
my gosh, they took off on us and they hate us
because of their religion,
which now can trigger me sometimes.
So yeah, I'm right there with you.
I can't relate to the, they've like totally left me,
my family, I gotta give them some credit,
no matter what they believe.
They stuck there and they're still there,
and mom will sometimes write a note on my desk.
She actually used this book to do, oh, here it is.
While me and my wife were on a trip to California,
I love Jesus, mom, God is good, okay?
It still happens.
I mean, isn't that interesting?
Right here on my desk, right here for the video,
perfect timing, next page is all my Richard C. Miller
videos I'm editing.
But they, no matter what, mom will never abandon
or leave even with my disbelief or atheists, whatever,
even if she thinks I'm wrong.
And I'm like, I had to have that talk once with mom
and them, it's like, mom, sis, all my family
that are around like challenging me on this.
I'm like, I've forgotten more about the Bible
than you've read or know about it.
And it's like, it's weird coming from that position
of like someone who studies this stuff
and knows this material really, really well,
compared to you, I could say I know it very, very bad
compared to other really, really, really smart people.
But then having such sheer confidence,
it's not about intellect, it's about experience, I think.
It's about that social I felt Jesus when I heard that song
or it's really them that they think is him.
It's really them.
And it's the placebo in themselves
and all of that going on, I think makes them be convinced.
Like, this can't be a lie.
And I get it, because they haven't figured out
to compartmentalize and recognize
they're applying that experience and the feelings
to something that isn't really that thing.
It's them.
Like Darren Brown, the mentalist, do you ever watch him?
He's an atheist, how he convinced that one girl
who was an atheist that God is real
and then he had to explain to her afterwards,
everything I did, I tapped into real people
like your dad, your mom, heroes in your life.
And then just one little tweak
and I had you thinking of God.
Interesting.
Yeah, he tweaked it all.
And he said, everything you felt,
he told her as he did it in front of everybody,
in front of the audience, everything you felt was real.
Every experience, every motion, all of that's real.
I just planted God in there.
God was not even needed for any of those things that I did.
I just added it in there as an experiment for the show.
If you haven't seen that, it's like faith versus
something fear, just type in on YouTube,
Darren Brown, D-A-R-R-E-N Brown,
makes an atheist a believer and then watch her reaction.
She gets up after he convinces her and like, he's like,
you know, sometimes it's just right in front of your head.
And by the way, he's an atheist.
But he's doing it as an experiment for a show.
Then he walks off, she stands up looking at the altar,
like crying.
He comes back and then explains to her later in the episode,
what happened and how he goes into all sorts of science
along the way of doing experiments.
One of the experiments he does that I found was interesting
is that he walks these people into a room.
One set of people, he tells them there's this haunted chair
that came from an actual house where it rocks
on its own sometimes.
Like they made up a BS story about this chair
that sometimes there's a ghost attached to it
and it might be sitting in it, you never know.
Anyway, some weird stuff.
Anyway, while I leave, I'll be back.
Make sure you move this ring around this,
almost like remember where you do surgery and it buzzes
if you hit the wall as a kid and you're trying to take.
Well, if it touches, it buzzes.
And so the people that were in that room
that thought the chair was haunted were 100% honest.
Every one of them said how many times it buzzed
when they touched, they jotted it down.
The people who had no clue about the chair,
three out of four of them lied.
Wow.
So when you tell a lie and make it think
someone's watching you when they're not,
people were more honest.
So he started to show the sociology, the psychology,
the science, I'm big into that kind of stuff.
I like to understand the real,
the mechanics behind why we believe
not just in the Bible it says, you know, like.
Well, and now couple that, couple that conditioning,
the mental conditioning that's happening.
And you couple that with this identity marker
that the belief in God or the love for Jesus
is now so integral to your own identity
that you are nothing without him.
And you have, and you had determined for yourself
at an early age or whenever
that this was going to be your identity,
trying to have people,
trying to expect people to rationalize themselves out
or to reason themselves out of that faith,
it would be a great betrayal of their own selves,
their own identity on top of a fear of betraying God
and getting punished for it.
So of course you're not, like your mom
isn't going to de-convert
because it's integral to her identity.
That's a, without a doubt, it's like telling it to them,
and this is hard to put your shoes in
if you're not a believer,
it's like telling them to lie to themselves.
Yeah.
Because they're convinced.
And that's why I try to be empathetic as much as I can
and encourage others to try to as well
because I think it's kind of a human thing.
It's a human thing we do.
But educating and continuing to do so,
GCRR's doing that.
Shameless plug again, the links are in the description.
Please go check it out.
Darren, you've been a fantastic guest.
I hope I've been a decent host.
I hope I don't, after this, beat myself up and go,
have I lived up to his expectations?
And,
but if you're struggling, the question is, right?
If you're struggling with religious trauma,
they can go here.
Yeah.
So if you go to gcrr.org forward slash RT,
we have a ton of resources.
So we have international scholars and specialists
who research religious trauma.
And if you are somebody who is a survivor
or is currently suffering from religious trauma,
you can check out our videos.
And there you will learn what trauma does to your brain
and your body, some of the contexts
in which trauma has occurred
and some best option treatments for you.
You'll also get a ton of really cool resources.
On top of that, if you are a clinician or a coach
or you are in professional ministry
or just somebody who wants to dive even deeper
into the hardcore academic stuff,
we offer a 32 hour certification.
And it is accredited for CEUs
or continuing education units.
And that will certify you in religious trauma studies.
You get 32 hours of content,
international scholars and over two dozen publications
on religious trauma for you to dive in deeper.
So are you gonna do gcrr.org forward slash RT?
And there's a message us on the bottom right.
There's a lot of cool ways to possibly make contact.
Check out the resources that Dr. Slade has brought us today.
I hope that you'll tap into that.
We're gonna check and see here in just a second
before I shamelessly plug myself.
I have a poll, right?
And I wanted to see how many people, you know, I asked,
do you think you might suffer from religious trauma?
There's been 264 votes.
I'll give people 10 seconds to vote now.
If you're in the chat, go ahead and drop your vote
because I'd like to get that.
Let's hit this super chat real quick here by Vesper.
And then we'll see how many people voted.
Is there maybe an element of self-sabotage going on
amongst religious due to low expectations
of themselves, original sin, unable to measure up to God?
Well, humans are professional self-sabitors.
So I wouldn't, it would not surprise me if in fact,
in fact, we see that even with things like porn addiction
or drug addiction, you take a hit and you say,
well, I fucked up once.
I'm just gonna go balls to the wall now
and just keep on doing it, right?
So yeah, I can see part of that self-sabotage
among religionists is I sinned.
And so I'm already screwed for today.
I will get my sins cleansed later on.
So I'm just gonna snowball it real quick.
That is, oh my gosh, in addiction, it's the same.
I already did it.
I'm stuck now.
I might as well just go all out,
spend all the money I have today.
Yeah, there's a ton of that that happens.
Crazy that you brought that up.
Vesper, great question and great answer, Darren.
Okay, now we're going with the votes.
I'm gonna end the poll now.
I hope everybody got their vote in three, two, one.
Okay, do you think you might suffer from religious trauma?
We had 273 votes, 53% said yes, 28% said no,
and then 17% said I'm not sure.
What do you think of that?
How many votes?
273.
Okay, and 53% said yes.
Interesting.
28% said no, and 17% said not sure.
Yeah, it's interesting.
When we came out with the study,
the number one criticism that we get
is that our numbers are too low
and we're purposely being conservative with our numbers
because we don't want it to look sensationalist.
So if somebody were to identify
that upwards of 50% of the population
just has religious trauma,
I'm not so sure it would be a hard pill to swallow.
So yeah.
Wow.
With your particular audience, myth vision audience?
Yeah.
Definitely, there's gonna be more in this poll.
I imagine if we sat around more,
there would be a lot more people voting,
but yeah, I mean, I have people who are on all spectrums
of different beliefs and whatnot who watch us.
And so there are some who probably didn't
and they found a way to consciously leave the cult.
I don't know, whatever the cult might be.
Let me go ahead and give a little shameless plug again
to point out, do your best not to be this guy,
repent or perish, delusional Derek,
that's a great way to win me to Christ, by the way,
hallelujah, delusional Derek,
I rebuke you in the name of Yahushua.
But you could go and support the Patreon.
And you can message me in this little messages,
you see how I'm so far behind right now,
I've got some catching up to do,
because I'm editing the heck out of these videos
with Dr. Richard C. Miller,
but you can harass me with your delusional Derek
if you wanna pay a little to join the Patreon.
Seriously though, there's a community here,
I'm working my butt off, I've got a lot of content,
it costs a lot of money to travel down to California
and make this trip possible.
You can help support and as little as $3 a month,
you're in the door, you have real salvation.
Anyway, help support us if you're interested in doing that.
The other way you could do it is take a course or two.
We have college level, real academic courses here,
18 lectures with Kip Davis here,
18 lectures with Dr. Dennis R. McDonald,
the smaller courses are here
and this is with Richard Carrier
and New Testament studies.
We have James Tabor here on the Gospel of Mark,
Dale Allison Jr. in the history of New Testament studies,
pretty much we call it the Jesus Quest
and then in David Litwa, ancient Greek mysteries
and Christianity and how there's something to it.
But yeah, any words from you, final words,
encouraging words maybe from you, Dr. Slade.
Well, Derek, I am very proud of you
for what you've gone through
and what you've come out of.
So thank you for being transparent and sharing your story
and encouraging others.
Thank you for having me on the show
and to everybody, just keep doing what you're doing.
Thank you for bringing actual knowledge and truth out there
and being good to each other and to yourselves.
Thanks again.
Thank you.
I seriously appreciate it.
Maybe we'll have you back again
in the not too distant future.
This has been a long time coming
and never forget, never forget.
We are myth vision.
Son, do you want to know what the truth is?
After this, there's no turning back.
You take the blue pill and you wake up in your bed
and believe whatever you want to.
You take the red pill and you stay in Wonderland
and I show you just how deep the rabbit hole goes.
Remember, all I'm offering is the truth, nothing more.
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
