Ladies and gentlemen, here's a tease of the interview that I did with Neil from Gnostic Informant.
If you want to see the full video, go down in the description and check it out.
It's a wonderful show we did with Dr. Michael Shermer, the author of Skeptic Magazine.
Based on his book.
Well, I mean, you and I have all heard. We don't have to get into theology, but we've all heard.
God does not change his mind, or God is the same yesterday, today, and forever.
God knows everything. Well, when you read passages where it's clear that God does not know,
all they do is, once again, the goalpost, they move it.
So where it's like, Adam, where are you in the garden?
Or like, man, I repent that I made man. I shouldn't have destroyed him all.
Or he's so angry that he did destroy him because he's like, man, he's angry after the flood.
Destroying all a mankind, almost, almost.
Like these emotions that we're reading, she's saying, don't slide past that.
Don't let the theologians trick you.
This is exactly what other ancient Near Eastern gods look like.
And it's exactly what they did.
So when you see that, and you can use that against the apologist who are telling your grandma,
she's going to hell, she doesn't send 10% of her tithes in, this is stuff I combat.
And I love doing that with Neil. We've been we've been combating fundamentalism for a long time.
People want to be theists. People want to believe in things. I get it.
At the end of the day, we're all going to believe in some things that maybe we don't have the empirical data to support at the end of the day.
However, some things are just ridiculous and harmful and traumatic like hell.
Right. Well, when I was researching and writing Heavens on Earth,
I encountered this issue of differences between religions on what happens in the afterlife.
Where do you go? What's it like? And are you there physically?
Are you there spiritually? What does that mean?
Where would my pattern of information that represents my soul or my connectome,
all my memories or whatever, where is that? You know, some quantum field somewhere?
Is it in the cloud, the equivalent of whatever the cloud would be?
And how old am I? You know, when I'm there, you know, some theologians,
oh, well, you'll be 30, you'll be resurrected and in heaven in a physical body.
Well, how old is the physical body? 30, because that's the age Jesus was when he was crucified.
30, well, yeah, 30 was I was strong and young and had my better memory
and a better body then than I do now. But I also have 37 more years of memory
that I've accumulated and experiences since I was 30, because I'm 67 now.
So where did those memories go? Are they there in the same brain? How does that even work?
And then of course, others go, no, no, no, no, forget this physical body nonsense.
It's, you know, it's just your soul. Well, what is that?
Again, is that just my connectome that, you know, the complete record of my memory?
But there is no such record because no, it's not recorded in there in the head.
You know, it's a it's a continually edited process.
You know, it's not like there's a memory of my 25th birthday or say my 21st birthday.
I have pictures of that with me at my parents' house and my family was there.
But it's that picture that I'm remembering now more than the experiences themselves.
So what's the true memory? There is no true memory.
It's, you know, it's a constantly edited process.
And so what gets resurrected there? You know, the real memories or the memories of the memories
and the edits of the memories of the memories and so on.
And, you know, and by the way, it's not just religion that has this problem.
The scientists who want to upload our minds into the cloud.
People like Ray Kurzweil think we're going to live forever through this mind uploading.
No, they have the same problem.
You know, what, you know, whenever you choose to scan your connectome,
and this can't be done by the way, but let's just say,
hypothetically, we get there and you'd have big enough computers to store the file and you then you then upload it to the cloud.
Well, what's there? You know, the moment you're done scanning my brain, that's it.
But I continue, you know, I'm having more experiences the rest of today.
That's going to alter my my life experience a little and the next day even more and so on as I continue on.
So you've just made a copy of me at that particular moment.
That day, that hour, that's my who I am at that moment.
But there is no permanent self.
The self is this kind of continuous process from step to step, day to day, moment to moment.
And and so even even the scientific attempt to achieve immortality is flawed for the same reason that the religions are.
Well, did Joe Rogan ever get to do DMT? No, I'm joking.
No, my wife forbids this.
I'm not going to go through.
I don't I don't blame you.
This is going to say this is an interesting question.
I'd like to ask you because you're a skeptic.
Now, you're not just any skeptic.
You're literally the skeptic magazine skeptic.
OK, you're the guy skeptic.
You're that skeptic.
And in fact, you have created a movement.
In fact, I started calling myself a skeptic after I read The Believing Brain.
And I'm fine with calling myself an atheist, even if people pigeonhole me, because I know that that definition also has a little flexible, flexible meaning.
Unless you're talking metaphysical atheism, but I'm not even going there.
I'm not making a Gnostic atheistic approach like I know.
But at the end of the day, the question I've never really heard anyone ask you this.
All right, maybe they have, but I haven't heard you answer this ever.
Where do you find meaning?
Because I know I could give the answer.
I know Neil could give the answer.
We could give our own personal explanations of how we find meaning.
But a lot of theists just can't imagine that if you don't have that mind above you, that deity above you, there's something that promises you afterlife or eternal life or something.
How do you find meaning?
And for you, Dr. Schermer, where do you find meaning in this life?
Yeah.
But first of all, I don't see how the promise of an afterlife gives this life meaning.
If anything, and some philosophers argue this, that we're going to die is what gives life meaning.
That like, okay, this is it.
I mean, I could go, you know, I'm going to go on a bike ride this afternoon.
I could get, you know, squashed by a truck and that's the end.
So I better enjoy this moment with you guys right now.
This is it.
Yeah.
Let's hope this doesn't happen.
But that's the idea that there's a terminus to the sequence makes every moment in the sequence all the more pregnant with meaning by the fact that it's going to end.
No, okay.
So that's one counter to it.
But, you know, the whole afterlife problem is fraught with other logical issues, not the least of which is, but doesn't that, if anything, degrade the value of the moment?
If all this stuff we're doing now is just a precursor to the big game in the next life, you know, this, you know, kind of theater, the absurd we're living through is just a preliminary before the big show and so on.
Then why bother carrying now other than just reward and punishment, some cosmic courthouse afterwards?
No, I don't think any of that makes much sense to me.
In any case, whether there's an afterlife or not.
You should assume that there isn't just in case.
And either way, don't miss out on this life because this is the life you have for sure.
Now, this is it.
100% you know you're alive.
But you don't know with 100% that there's going to be another life after.
So you better, you better enjoy that.
Okay.
So where do I find meaning?
Well, the way everybody else does through meaningful work and family and loving relationships and friends.
And, you know, a career that, you know, it's driven towards something bigger than myself.
I find meaning in my hobbies like cycling, working out every day, hikes with my dog and nature.
You know, there's a lot of research on this and going out into nature seems to make people feel good.
I like that.
Hikes in the woods and so on barefoot on the beach, those kinds of things that were that the spiritual gurus kind of tell us are good.
They are good.
There's research that shows that they're good.
You know, I like to go into cathedrals.
I also like to go into astronomical observatories and I get the same experience.
There's something about that that takes you out of yourself.
So this is what the research says.
Something that takes you out of yourself and into something bigger than you.
Whatever that is, science of course gives us that.
But anything, you know, volunteering for a nonprofit or, you know, manning the soup kitchens or, you know, helping somebody that needs help.
And it's not about you.
You know, it's not like giving the donation to the university and put your name on a building.
That's not going to do it.
It has to be something that you value doing and it has, you know, some moral implications and so on.
Those are the sorts of things that people, you know, getting married, having kids, building a family, having friends, all that.
You know, people say that's what makes life worth living and that's different than happiness.
So doing things that make you happy at the moment is short term.
And of course, that's all good.
It's fun to, you know, go out to dinner with friends and have a good time.
But then it's over.
Then, you know, what happens next?
Okay, maybe something bad happens and then you're not happy.
But meaningful activities are long term.
That is, they have a longer time horizon, both forward and back.
So, you know, nostalgia of looking back on my life thinking, well, this is what I've done.
And then looking forward, given that I've done this, I want to do that.
And, you know, and much of what I do is not fun.
It doesn't make me happy moment to moment.
But it makes me feel more purposeful and meaningful.
Like my life has more meaning that I'm doing this uncomfortable thing, whatever that is.
And working out is, you know, when I work out, I try to do it hard.
And it's not fun, but I feel better afterwards.
Or, you know, example, I give caretaking for my parents, you know, driving,
shoving my dad around to doctors and medical centers and all this stuff.
It wasn't fun at all.
It was exhausting.
It was depressing.
You know, it was just sad and so on.
But I feel like I'm a better person for it.
And of course, you know, I love my dad.
And so he appreciated that.
And I would want somebody to do that for me and on and on, you know, that.
So, you know, much of what we do that psychologists and studies tell us,
we don't do it because it makes us happy.
We do it because it makes us fulfilled as purposeful, meaningful people.
Yeah.
And I'm thinking about what you're saying about, like, like, for example,
on a clear night, when I look up at the stars and I see everything,
I get this like feeling like, how lucky am I just to be alive?
And you, whatever the process of the Big Bang, whatever happened,
that the result is that me being here, being, you know,
conscious of being able to do things and experience life.
And then I hear people like Michael or Dr. Krauss talk about how the beginning
of the universe was the size of an atom and then it expanded to what it is now.
That right there is like way more powerful than any religion can.
Just thinking about that.
Thank you.
