Welcome back to MythVision Podcast. I'm your host Derek Lambert, and we're going to be discussing a very sensitive topic, but I think it's a very important one.
It not only has its roots in not too distant history in America in our recent past, but it has stemmed back into prehistory.
As far back into antiquity as we can possibly go, humans owning other humans or also the word slavery, we're going to get into the term and what it means.
And today, my guest, Dr. Jennifer Glancy is going to help elucidate some of these ideas. She has written multiple books and I'm going to promote those here in just a moment.
But to give everybody a chance to enter into the stream, let's play a little intro that I think is a bit sensational, but it puts the finger on a very sensitive subject for Christianity itself.
When we hear the word slavery, Ben, we think of slavery as it existed in the American South. And as you know, that is nothing like the system that existed in ancient Israel.
In ancient Israel, there was no social safety net sponsored by the state. There was no poverty program.
So if a man got himself into a situation where he couldn't pay his debts, he could keep his family together and retain his self-respect by selling himself as an indentured servant to his creditor until he could work off his debts and then he would have to be set free.
After seven years, he had to be set free in any case. So this was really a form of indentured servanthood. It wasn't slavery as we think of that term. This was actually an anti-poverty program.
And in some respects, I think it's better than what we have in modern Western culture, which destroys families, ruins people's self-respect because they're not working.
Whereas in ancient Israel, a man retained his self-respect. He worked for an income. He paid his debts. He kept his family together. And that, to call that slavery, is just a gross misrepresentation.
I think it's better than what we have.
Ladies and gentlemen, the sensational intro is over and we're going to discuss the topic of slavery. Before we do, I want everybody to take the time to go and check out the book, Slavery as Moral Problem in the Early Church and Today.
This is the book we'll be discussing, but it really overlaps Dr. Jennifer A. Glancy's work, Slavery in Early Christianity, her publication in 2002. And of course, Slavery in Early Christianity, her publication in 2006.
I suspect that's an updated version. But let's introduce our guest here, Dr. Glancy. Welcome to MythVision.
Well, welcome, Derek. Thank you for having me. It's just, it's really a pleasure to be here.
Thank you. I really appreciate you doing this, taking the time to educate us. You have dug very deep into this subject and really have a sensitivity in seeing things that, like I said, in my upbringing, I just read it 100 times and just, you know, never noticed.
There's a story within the story that we just don't know about. And I want to know the good, the bad, the ugly for many reasons. It helps us not to repeat it so we can learn from the lesson.
But it also makes me empathize with our ancestors and our families that we went through and how we may not need to continue perpetrating this kind of system on ourselves.
And maybe we can find ways to avoid it. Let's not try to paint it something it's not. But also, we shouldn't go too far, right? And act like, these, everybody's just evil and hate.
I mean, they were living in a time, in a world, in the way they were. So we're going to touch all of that. Before you do, I think it's only polite for me to roll out the red carpet.
Dr. Jennifer A. Glancy.
It's a red carpet season, right? You know, Oscars and now I get my own red carpet moment.
Let me go get my red carpet. I'll be right back.
Dr. Jennifer A. Glancy is a scholar of New Testament and early Christianity, and the Reverend Kevin G. O'Connell's S.J.
Distinguished Teaching Professor in the Humanities at Lemoine College in Syracuse, New York.
Her expertise lies in the cultural history of early Christianity, with a special emphasis on corporeality and Christian anthropology, women's history and antiquity, gender theory and comparative studies of slavery.
Her book, Slavery in Early Christianity 2002, was chosen as a history book club selection. If I went on and on, I would never have an episode.
So there's so many things to investigate. Dr. Glancy, the first question I think is simple.
What is slavery?
So I think when we say slavery, there are fancy academic definitions, but I think basically when most Americans talk about slavery, they're talking about the buying and selling of human beings as chattel, as what we call chattel as property.
And so I would just like in terms of the opening, sort of your sensational opening in the idea of slavery in the ancient world was nothing like it is today.
I think it's really important to realize that the reference to the limited debt bondage is a reference to the world of Exodus, the world of Leviticus, the world of Deuteronomy.
And those laws were not in place at the time of Jesus because he was living in the Roman Empire, not in the ancient Near Eastern world.
And so even there, I would, and again, in terms of debt bondage, I think precisely what people did lose with self respect, you know, I mean, that was sort of why people tried to avoid it.
That's number one. Number two is,
there was even, even though Israelites, according to the covenant code, the holiness code of the Old Testament Hebrew Bible, didn't enslave other Israelites, they did enslave non-Israelites, and they were enslaved by non-Israelites.
So the restriction on slavery is really only on Israelite to the extent that it was enforced, it really is only on Israelite to owning other Israelites.
And then finally, the other thing I would say is I would not want to downplay the horrors of debt bondage.
And I think a lot of people who are campaigning against slaving in today's world, for example, international justice mission, IJM, which is great work, sort of against slavery systems around the world.
A lot of that is against debt bondage. And so we know this is a horror in the modern world.
It was horrible in the ancient world too, but it doesn't apply to the time of Jesus. So I'll stop there and you can ask me what next?
There's so many things to discuss. I actually knew when I created that little intro that he wasn't talking about the Roman period, but I threw up Roman images.
I threw up, you know, purposefully because I knew we were going to go to this area.
But it was the closest thing I could find in the short amount of time coming from a apologist who wants to try and paint a world from the biblical perspective that is trying to make it nice, morally modified and sounding good.
You've mentioned in lectures and in your works that there are slaves that literally are equated with cattle or some type of livestock.
And how is this not degrading to see, you know, as a human, I'm worth that of a bull or some other animal in our minds, whereas you know that the other humans are worth far more.
Right. And so I mean, even if you go back to the Old Testament, the Hebrew Bible, you'll have a list of property.
Oh, Abraham has so many camp, you know, not camels, but donkeys and male and female donkeys and male and female slaves and you're like, wait a minute, it's just like being listed with the property.
And yeah, so how do you weigh that against what a human being is worth and how do I guess I'd say, how does it affect someone to hear themselves described in those terms?
How does it at the point of sale, because and certainly, certainly in the Roman world in the world that Jesus grew up and enslaved people were bought and sold and how did that affect someone to be auctioned off?
You know, and I think that you have even in New Testament texts that don't necessarily condemn slaving per se, you do have condemnations of the slave trade.
I'm terrible at chapter and verse, but it comes up in the book of Revelation where sort of in humans, you know, human souls are part of the cargo and that's clearly being like condemned that you would be trading in human beings.
So there's a kind of kind of horror that's elicited and the idea that confronting what it is to be sold.
That is that that's sort of the limit case of the kind of cattle slavery that we had in the Americas, but that we also had in the Roman world.
So you just answered kind of without giving us the details.
My next question, because I want to pave a road for people to walk on, and that is most people who are defending the Bible.
And I'm saying, Apologist, I want the historical facts.
I, you know, I'm not interested in like trying to paint illusions to trick people to thinking everything's just kosher here, your book literally titled this issue.
And that is the slavery in the South, in America really wasn't just the South.
I mean, in America, that was done on black people, horror.
I mean, like there's no, we don't try to justify this today.
I mean, literally the people who try to are racist and we clearly call them what they are.
But it's ugly.
And so a lot of people want to say, well, that is radically, as you heard William Lynn Craig, different from that of ancient Israel, or let's even go to the New Testament under Jesus's time.
It is so different.
It has like no comparison.
Whereas I know that you've discussed there are differences and I'd love to have you highlight a few of those differences.
There are plenty of differences.
I guarantee it, especially with the race thing.
However, the practice and the cruelty and the viciousness of the system, you know, can you, can you tell us the differences and similarities to what was going on here versus what we see in Roman practice in the antiquity?
Sorry.
Yeah, but I guess I would also say that maybe one place to start is that someone who is very much attached to the Christian tradition that I grew up in.
Someone who is white, someone who is American, someone who's a Northener, you know, you can probably hear it in my voice, but Griffin, New Jersey.
And so I do think that we need to realize that this was not just something that Southerners did, that the slavery, as I'm sure your listeners know, we had it in New York State, New York, the colony, and then into the Republican period into
state, Massachusetts, New Jersey.
I went to Columbia University for my PhD and that they made a lot of money off the slave trade as many Northern universities enormously, you know, and so part of my own sort of working on this is a moral issue is to say, Oh my God, I've gotten privileges.
I, you know, I use this amazing library at Columbia.
How did the slave trade fund that?
Like how did, so sort of looking, looking at those questions.
And then also I would say in the American context remembering that there were differences in the practices of slaving.
It did make a difference if you were on a huge cotton plantation, or if you were in a workshop in, you know, in somewhere in the Chesapeake region, or if you were living in Philadelphia or New York.
These things would all obviously affect the way you organize your day to day life.
Right.
But I think the limit case, again, we could talk then about being bought and bought and sold that you come up across certain limit cases.
So the big, I say the biggest and the most obvious difference between slavery in the Roman world and slavery in the Americas as we tend to think about it and, you know, you could find some exception somewhere is that in the Americas,
slavery was very quickly became race based. And so it was something that was visual people felt that they could visually tell someone who was either enslaved or had a heritage of being a slave.
And so that was a really huge difference. I think Israelites didn't enslave permanently enslave other Israelites, Romans didn't permanently enslave other Romans, Greeks didn't permanently enslave other Greeks.
And yet if you were living in Rome, there was no one kind of person who you would look at and think that you automatically knew if they were enslaved or not.
Those people came from the British, you know, the British Isles or they came from Sub-Saharan Africa or they came from the far, you know, from further east in the Mediterranean.
So, so the idea of race based slavery, I think is something really distinctive about the American experience and problematic about the American experience.
In the Roman Empire, there was a higher rate of minumission of freeing slaves than there was in the Americas.
And that can't be most of the people by the first century probably most people who were enslaved were born into that condition, live their entire life in that condition and died in that condition.
But still there was a higher hope or expectation of freedom than most enslaved people enslaved in the Americas.
And for it depending in the Roman Empire, if you were in very limited kind of way of being freed, this was probably not the most common, but there was one way of freeing slaves that they became citizens automatically.
So another difference in the American experience is that when enslaved people were freed, black people were often denied a lot of the rights of citizenship, even if they were considered citizens, they weren't treated equally as other citizens.
So, so those are some really, those are some important differences, I think that have to be acknowledged.
I think that's that there's so many more to right that you can list and go into.
But but there's a lot also, I guess, morally speaking, some really bad stuff. I mean, they're your property, and especially female or male, you can use them however you want.
This was something like, can you imagine someone trying to make an argument that, oh, it's just ancient employment.
But I can use you, you know, for whatever.
How would that work at your current employer, like sexual harassment laws and things like that.
So there was a Greek saying that the slaves are answerable with their bodies. And one of the things that meant was that if an enslaved person gave testimony, like in a court trial, it was not just torture, like you tortured testimony, but that that was obviously less common.
One is that the vulnerability to physical violence was pretty extreme.
So constant people inside people always constant to just sort of like, I would say a constant low level of violence in their life, a constant just sort of getting knocked around.
Because, oh, you know, just for whatever reason, up to extreme levels of violence, Rome was a very, very violent society. And there was extreme, I mean, it was, it was a spectacle, people would walk, you know, what would watch and say people getting extreme punishments.
Wow.
Well, that goes up to the arena, right. So a lot of the people who fought in the arena would have been enslaved.
And gladiators, among others, you know, that's why I added the call the little call.
Yeah, yeah, I mean, so that's kind of like, in some ways, you know, if they did well, they could achieve some prominence, but there's a lot of brutality on the way.
But of course, the sexual use of slaves, which was very common in the Americas. And it was very, very common throughout the ancient world, and it was very, very common.
I mean, I don't like anyone who knows Genesis is going to say, oh, you know, slavery, what's the real harm? Well, you've enslaved women who are being taken as secondary wives without any choices.
You have, you have Hagar, you have Bihar, you have Zilpa. And my, and how did this affect family structures? I mean, this is going back to the time of ancient Israel, but certainly in the first century that knowing that enslaved people were sexually vulnerable.
When I started doing my research, a lot of scholars would say, oh, well, you know, physical slavery, that's kind of bad, but it's not really as bad as spiritual slavery. And I was always like, really?
I mean, I like, but I also think these are people who haven't really thought through what it would be to be sexually vulnerable, and zero protection, like there's no, like there's zero protection because you're someone's property.
And I also think the other thing I would always say is, okay, maybe being beaten, you can remain spiritually free. If you start beating a little kid when they're two, and you raise them under that, then you have a child that's grown up constantly, subject to abuse by slaveholders,
by people outside the household, because enslaved people had very little protection against violence on the streets.
You know, so, yeah, no, I, yeah, there's, that was a terrible part of the system, plus the possibility of being separated from families.
And so we think about, well, what were the attitudes like, you know, like slavery, it wasn't that bad. Okay, there's a first century Roman historian named Josephus.
And he tells the story, it's a very famous story of Masada, where the Jewish people are having one of their final stands against Rome in the big war.
And the men, according to the story, and I, you know, I'm not saying the stories historically true, the men killed their wives and children to keep them from being sold, right? And then they killed themselves.
Whether or not that story is true, that, that, that suggests an attitude like slavery is an utter horror, and death might be preferable to slavery.
And so to look at something like this was a Jewish fear of slavery around 70, which would have been held by everyone in the Roman world, you know, like, like freeborn people did not want to be enslaved.
And then go like, Oh, it's really no big deal. You know, tell that to the guys at Masada. And so even in a case where like that, then people are going to be sold all over the empire.
And so there's that same loss of, it's not the middle passage that you have between Africa and the Americas, you don't have the same oceanic graveyard, but you do have a tremendous loss of life.
And just loss of connection, like loss of language, like you're sold. Here I am talking about my northern accent, but imagine just being, or don't imagine, I mean, it's a terrible thing to imagine being sold so far that you're not hearing the sounds of home anymore.
I mean, that that's painful.
Wow. Yeah, I think one of the biggest problems is people not empathizing and actually trying to listen to the voices of people who suffer.
And that's something we all should learn. And I think we all can do better at it.
I want to, I want to take us back to really the moral issue with Christianity and its earliest forms and throughout history, which I'm sure you'll start to kind of paint a picture for us.
But you mentioned that the Essenes, we have a Jewish group. They're very, what is the proper term for them?
Yes. Yes. But they're like a lot of the literature they have is apocalyptic. They expect the world to change. Maybe God's going to come in and do some depending on the literature you read, because it's not all one message, just like I would say the New Testament is multiple books from different people and
different perspectives, sometimes even contradictory to one another in terms of an issue.
The Essenes, you said that Josephus and Philo mentioned that they thought that slavery was like a crime against humanity in a way.
Now, the Damascus document you point out and like in their literature themselves, they were unanimous on this. It was almost like maybe certain individuals amongst them said, this is wrong and I will not practice it.
However, when we get to the New Testament, when we get to the Gospels, when we get to Paul, we don't see that.
So I think that's right. So you have this first century group that we know is the Essenes and their own writings, it seems as though I had to make a guess.
I guess I might say something like they didn't have individual ownership of slaves, but maybe the community owned slaves, but it's murky.
But what really, really interests me is that Philo, who's this first century philosopher, Jewish philosopher from Alexandria in Egypt, Josephus the historian, both report that this group called the Essenes does not that they don't own slaves
and Philo says right because they don't own slaves because it's a violation of our common humanity.
And so I just think it's really, to me, it's really interesting that there's this group of first century Jews who are apocalyptic, like people who followed Christ, right?
And they believe in the resurrection, they believe in a lot of things that Jesus followers are going to believe in, but they seem to, they had the reputation for imagining a world without slavery.
And yet when you come along, Jesus, when Jesus says to Zacchaeus, according to Luke, I don't know if there's a historical Zacchaeus, but you know, you got this, the way the story is told is, you know, Zacchaeus says, oh, I'm going to sell half my property and give it to the poor.
Jesus doesn't say, well, first free the slaves, right? You know, does this property, he's a rich guy, does this property include enslaved people, or is he freeing them or is he selling them?
And we don't know, that's not specified. When Paul comes along, he doesn't say slaveholders can't be baptized, you know, slaveholders were baptized.
And so you couldn't end slavery in the Roman Empire, but there was, there was no attempt to stop people who were slaveholders from restricting their membership in these communities.
And I think that's really, I think that's hard. I think that we need to think about, well, for when I say we, I'm talking about people, I'm thinking about myself as a historian, but I'm also thinking about those of us who are attached in one way or another to these documents and want to live by them, but also can't live by them because there are parts of them that I can't accept and I can't, I can't, I can't live by that.
Yeah, I have maybe how we deal with scripture, I have maybe have some more things to say about that later, but sorry.
Yeah, no, no, no.
Sorry, I interrupted you. I am, I have friends who are believers.
And they, they don't consider themselves apologist. They they're like, there's some great stuff that you can find some some good lessons.
And so they cherry pick and I'm like, good for you.
Like, and one, one buddy of mine who is an open theist, I said, well, how do you feel about some of your stuff that doesn't fit open theism in the Bible?
He goes, well, I, I just have to wrestle with it.
And he goes, and you know what, he said the greatest cherry picker in the world to me was Jesus.
And so I'm going to be like Jesus. And I was like, all right, cool. I like that, you know, he's willing to negotiate with the material rather than be an errant infallible or in some manner act like this is the instruction.
We should absolutely live by so much so that I would say deceptive tactics or lying outright lying is taking place to defend the Bible.
They're actually creating more, I would say more of a problem for people who are investigating the truth who are discovering your work and other academics that I have on this channel.
They're doing more damage by doing that because they're going to see through the lie.
And now they're being forced to exit or feeling compelled to not be able to negotiate with the material any longer in a way that is satisfactory.
So that was my little vent. There's, I wanted to get into other things, but I want to take a few super chats.
I don't know if you've ever been on a stream before.
No, it's a big throne.
So people can super chat. It helps support the channel, but they can like ask questions or make comments and things like that.
And it comes up as like a colorful message at the bottom.
The first one we got is Jeff Cochran.
Forgive me if I butchered it. Derek, thank you for your curiosity. It's inspiring.
Well, thank you. And then the next one is Dr. Joshua Bow and I was telling you about him before we started.
And that is digital Hammurabi. So excited to see Dr. Glancy on the stream.
Thoughts on the New Testament showing moral progression on slavery to condemn ultimately condemn it apologetic.
Yeah, that's, you know, that's, that's so
When I first started maybe working on this material, I remember writing one of an early article that was called slaves and slavery in the mythian parables and my husband got to the end of it.
And he was like, I wanted to have a different ending. And I said, I do too.
I want to, I want to conclude something other than what I'm concluding here.
But I, you know, I think ultimately Christianity has to be compatible with honesty and we have to be honest about this.
I don't I think that there are passages in the New Testament that can be that are used in abolitionist movements that can and rightly should be used in abolitionist abolitionist movements.
But I don't think that early Christians themselves are necessarily on that trajectory.
And I think that you can really tell, I guess the way to really respond to this, I'm rambling a bit as I think it to myself.
You can tell this either as a story of, oh, you know, at the beginning Christians didn't see the real horror, but as the Christian movement goes on, they see the real truth.
You can also tell it as a story of Jesus starting off, not condemning slavery, but saying to his followers, everyone needs to be slaves to one another.
And in a world without masters, we could say there would be no slaves, you know, so there's a kind of rejection of hierarchy there.
And then as we get into the writings that I considered deutero canonical, I don't consider them by Paul.
Writings like Colossians and 1st Timothy and Titus that are really strictly signed to incite people obey your masters, like, you know, listen to your masters.
And so it's the story there is being told, not of moral progression, but of greater and greater conformity to Roman values.
I don't want to posit a pure golden moment where the message of the Jesus followers was all egalitarian.
I think that's, I wish that were the case. I think that's a bit romanticized.
But I do think that we do see unevenly increasing conformity to Roman values as you go until the late 1st century and into the early 2nd century.
And it's where we smile if he wants to respond.
Oh, they just they just write the comment and they can super chat again if they want to say anything, but Dr. Josh, appreciate that.
And then I have Pat Lowinger, who's also another scholar. I'm a big fan of Dr. Glancy to great scholarship.
So what would interest me and as someone who once believed it was an errant infallible perfect like God's Word and all that is that it took us, you know, 1700, 1800 years under what we would call Christian, the Christian church, which is supposed to be moved by the Holy Spirit.
No wonder you get like Mormons who say, oh, there was a great falling away at the very beginning of the church and like these various sects of what we would say are if you're Orthodox, you'd say these are heretical movements that kind of come out.
But like they they have certain certain ideas and usually it's not about slavery as to why they say there was a great falling away.
They're saying other reasons so that their church is the one that's the true one.
But like, if you take this literally that the spirit the new ma as Paul calls it as like I would say his middle Platonist and and has some stoicism here.
So this is a physical essence that he thinks is active in the community.
First of all, first Corinthians would make very little sense to me that he's constantly saying like, What are you guys doing?
The spirit's supposed to be changing the way you act.
But like throughout throughout the entire church history, we see this really big thing that if like God had solved this future situation, the way you can see how I'm thinking here.
Yeah, why did it take us 1800 years or so I'm throwing out a number to get to this stance and like really stamp it down.
I'm not saying there weren't voices along the way.
I'm saying why didn't why didn't that change happen?
Totally hypothetical, but you know.
So one book that I would really recommend to your readers is by it's called the Catholic Church and I wrote it.
I wrote down the names or some things I might want to read the titles of all oppression shall cease slavery abolition in the Catholic Church.
And it's a really recent book within the past year by Christopher Kellerman.
And he is a young Jesuit and it's really about the history of the really, really, really, really shamefully long time that took the Grumman Catholic Church to condemn slavery and the long, long, long history of support for slaving practices in the Catholic Church.
And I think it's a really great book. I think it's braver than anything that I've written because I think that Christopher suggested it and I think that well I know he suggested it.
And you're writing you know you're writing something that's really, really challenging about something that's a clear moral wrong that the church was not right side of.
So I really admire that kind of that kind of work.
I think that it's just, I think that just when your child you learn to speak the language that you're taught. And I think the, the church grew up speaking the language of the time and the church churches, synagogues,
mosques conform to the values of their larger of the larger society. And there was self interest in doing so so it's a it's a painful.
It's a painful thing I think something about a bunch of things that I would say that we now take for granted like when I was growing up when I was young I'm 62.
You know in 66 or something, you might see a parent racket kid and public and no one would say anything like, you know, it's just kids got hit right and now we would have social.
In those places, I think we'd have sort of social structures against that that would be problematic. But what we would now consider unacceptable levels of violence towards children were really common right but spare the rod and spoil the child and I know that some of
that's thinking still goes on and I think that's really problematic thinking.
I think violence teach violence is pedagogical it teaches violence.
And so but something like that we thought issues really caring about someone.
The issue of consent, I think is fairly recent. I mean there's a long history if you think about sexual violence against women or men or against anyone boys.
The question of whether or not they consented wasn't always relevant historically to the question of whether or not they were shamed, you know, so sort of it's beyond blame the victim it's if someone's been sexually violated against their will that somehow they're
dirtied and these these attitudes were really hard to change to really, really, really pass down through generations. And there's a lot of self interest in maintaining that system so I think I think the question of moral change the way you're posing it.
And it is something I try to take on and slavery is moral problem. How does that change like maybe this this hits home to you in some way if you're inside of a system, then to be good and moral is to uphold the values of that system.
So coming to see that the system itself is wrong tainted, dehumanizing actually makes you engage in behavior that the system is going to see as bad.
Right, so you're, you're going to have to come to a point point where you say, No, I can't behave like that anymore I can't do that, then you're the one who was seen to be wrong, rather, in the view of the system does am I saying that clearly.
Yeah, in another way of putting it is they're ahead of their time, because they're not they're not situated in their current context they're trying to break the system, because the system is got serious issues and flaws.
I've said the same thing about prison, the way we do this. Oh man, I mean this is like another form of slavery.
There's just so many problems and I looked at it from a psychological because I come from a mental health area, no expertise in it but I am a recovering drug addict and I had to do a lot of research as I was getting clean and helping other drug addicts to get out of the vicious cycle of addiction.
And there's this, there's this notion of like how do we rehabilitate. And should people just go to jail and lock people up or go to prison for multiple years. How do you get a drug addict to get out of the cycle inspired me to look into this more and I'm like,
we now we know this we've known this for half a century at least if not longer that isolation and putting people in these boxes and thinking this is supposed to rehabilitate I'm not saying there isn't a small percentage that come out in some way changed.
But for the most part, you're actually making them more criminal like if they had any criminal inclinations before, and like there's it's not helping them rehabilitate.
Other, I would say, secular societies that have found models of getting them to go to work and working systems to get them not to go to prison or jail are actually more progressive and we see the results are better.
So there's just, what do we do right what do we do with this this idea and and moving forward I just, there are Christians who have this really strict God is actually active in like in everyday life and is very active in the things that we do.
And they think that he kind of steers history and you go, well how come for 1800 years back to that question. We humans have been doing that. Oh that's humans. Don't put that responsibility on God but you say he's in control you like you say his spirit is guiding his church you say, there's a lot of things they say.
And to me, to me it sounds like these are humans doing human things, not, not that I don't know you know what I mean. It's complicated.
Yeah, but I also think the connection between slavery and the American prison system is so horrific really and its forms of unfreedom.
There's such a, there's so many really ugly continuities there that that's a whole oh I you know I hope that you have have time to to really think about that in other episodes too because I think it's really really critical.
But even think about some of the ways that we people I'm not saying you or I or anyone on this chat although maybe one or another of us have at some time fallen into it that the way we joke about Americans joke about sexual violence in prisons it's horrible like it's, it's a horrible
thing and people are like well you know what do you know what do you expect you know like I don't know like you sold some drugs so now you deserve what like it is this horrific thing and I think that level so when people look at slavery and they're like how could anyone
ever thought that was okay well how can we as Americans act as though this is okay when it's going on right now and it's, and it's not okay and it's the same thing about violence as pedagogy and what that, you know what that, what that does so I.
And as you say that there were voices from antiquity and Christian voices from antiquity that are important to hear, and I both want them to be here heard and to say, and they were not the major voices, right, and there's this attack about Gregory of Nessa and he's
a 4th century theologian and he's beautiful he says how can you buy and sell, you know someone who's the image of God like how much would you pay for that like you can't you can't like humans are an infinite worth.
That's really beautiful but he wasn't he might not have been consistent on that in his own life, but more like more importantly his wasn't the major voice in the church that was heard.
Yeah, so that's a hard question.
Wow, powerful, powerful.
I guess I'm not sure sort of do we have a timeframe here.
I am yours so don't worry I'm all your time. I'm having fun.
I do also want to say that I think it's some of your listeners might be interested in their number of my colleagues who are biblical scholars, who, who are black and who write from the perspective of the black church, and they have dealt with issues of slavery in the Bible and
some really different ways.
And so I'm thinking about my colleague Emerson Powery, for example, who wrote with Rodney Sadler, a book called the Genesis of liberation.
And really what that is showing is how enslaved people in the American South, and when they wrote their narratives how they use the Bible so like I'm emphasizing in some ways the bad way, the bad news.
I'm emphasizing how have Christian traditions from the outset been really distorted by slave holding values.
That's I think is something and if we're going to change as you've been saying we need to acknowledge that and say, where do we as Americans are believers or non believers or whatever but where do we go from here like how do we, how do we emerge from these really distorted ways of thinking.
Other people, Lisa Bowens has a great, great book called African American readings of Paul, and that's really good because she shows how African Americans from like the 1700s to the 20th century.
Many of them found courage and hope in the writings of Paul, some of them really, you know, didn't answer that she shows a range of African American readings of Paul.
So I think it's important to realize that these scriptures, as you say, reflect lots of different people's perspectives they don't I mean I would never assume that they all have one unified message.
You know they're written by different people at different times and they, they say different things.
But they have meant different things to different readers and different communities and people who have needed strength have looked to these volumes and have found sources of strength that I think that that's also important to remember that as well.
So I'm going to get back to in a minute the the historical New Testament material with you. But before we do you're touching something that is so valuable, and it's very important people watching kind of try to digest this.
If you were a slave in America, you have zero control over your circumstances, you're stripped of the right of being able to do anything about this and you came across this literature.
You were taught about Jesus, because you're raised in a household that may be Christian, and you're reading Paul or somehow you're coming across Paul's letters.
In your circumstance, hearing there's neither free nor slave, there's neither this, you get value from that there's some value in this so, so I try to empathize put myself in the shoes and understand how this might have been refreshing from that that circumstance.
And it's very perception based on how we're going to read and understand this but I just, I guess it's kind of like wish that we didn't have this to begin with or someone abolished this long ago right.
So we have to deal with the realities.
I have a couple super chats here and then but I wanted to get back to to text which one do you want to do you want to wait on super chats, or do you want to get super chats and then go back to.
You know how this works better than I do.
I really it's really no different other than when super chats, super chats. All right, we'll have some fun with super chats then Alan Bird.
Constantine replaced face tattoos on slaves with collars. The collars have Christian emblems showing that Christianity actively supported slavery.
Yeah, that's true. I mean that's absolutely true. And, and so some scholars would argue and I'm not arguing this right you said that that the slave collars were actually there for
You know, it was back like, would you rather be wearing one of these slave collars or would you rather have a tattoo on your face and these would be for, for people who typically in a side person would try to liberate themselves would run away to commit it the crime of owning themselves
I'm joking it's not a crime.
And, and so the slave collars might say oh you know hold me so I do not flares or something like that.
And so is this tamping it down and this is this is where the reader has to decide I mean exactly right. Like is this making it sort of nicer because we're no, no enslaved people are no longer being tattooed on the forehead, or is this is this actually a sign absolute
ongoing Christian commitment, and you know, making it really clear that people were enslaved by deacons or whoever members of the church so I that's a really good point to Alan bird absolutely.
For those, most people are just now showing up, or, you know, they haven't seen the intro, but that caller, it literally is Latin, and it says, hold me lest I flee and return to my master.
Oh return me to my master viventious on the estate of Callistus or Callistus.
So, you know, a lot of a lot of those collars then have, and someone just said precisely, you know, they might have a question symbol like a key row or something like which are two Greek letters.
So, so they were clearly associated with Christianity and monasteries and enslaved people and yeah.
No one just has precisely why Gregory of Nisa was a rare voice.
He really and he was.
Wow.
Dr. Cheryl. Thank you for being a member and always being in the chat. Cheryl is a huge fan. Welcome Dr. Glancy. Why do you think slavery was not included in the 10 commandments.
It was not included in the 10 commandments because it in fact actually you're not supposed to cover your, you know, it is mentioned in the sense of, I mean, I was supposed to copy your neighbors slaves.
I mean, so that there's mentions to I, it was part of the league. I mean, it was just part of the law. I mean, it was just, there's their slave. I'm not I guess I'm
I think it was, I don't know what does Dr. Cheryl think I think that I think that slavery was
something that that was legally upheld at the time that those codes were written.
Yeah, it's part of the legal system that supported.
It's hard to even see outside of it if you were in it right like we probably hold things today. I said this many times on my show before. I'll say it again.
I hope if our children are watching, we are probably wrong on so many things and I hope you do better than us, but I also hope you know that like we're trying.
And that's really what we're trying to do because we don't and we're also forced by a system where we're stuck in a system having to live with certain things.
So we're hoping that you do better than we do. And that's my words to our to our predecessors here.
Dr. Cheryl says, given the ties between slavery and Christianity, what do you think is vital to eradicating the longstanding effects of race based slavery still present in our society?
Well, that's, I think that is really important. And so one of the things that I would say is, I think it's really important to look at the way from the outset that slavery from the to see at the outset the way that the slavery shaped Christian thinking.
I think on, I think that for, for churches, I think there's a lot of work for predominantly white churches still to do in terms of contending with the legacy of slaveholding.
And I think that's really, really hard to do because so often, well, as Christian congregations, we want to think, oh, we do this, we take care of other people, we serve other people and seeing how we have benefited from unjust structures.
That's a really painful thing. That's also the heart of what Christians are supposed to do in terms, I think, of the terms of repentance to turn to turn to turn the other way.
I think that that is really at the heart of that work. And I also think it's really important, and I'm now speaking as a white American, white Christian to to learn to listen to voices of our black fellow Christians and black.
People who are black or not Christians is black and other minoritized members of society, but in the US really black people who have, who were affected by the legacy of slaveholding, who may have totally different issues than, than I do.
Who, because I've dealt with when I've, I've spoken before predominantly black audiences, their perspective how they're coming at something.
I feel like I never would have seen it that way. And I need to think about the way I'm framing something. Again, the one thing I would say is my tendency to focus on the bad news and to say we need to focus on this to focus on the distorting
effects of slavery on these ideology and practices. And, but also hearing voices saying, well, you know, the spirit comes to everyone the same. And I'm like, okay, then I also need to honor these voices as well.
So those are some of the things that we need to do. And then figuring out ways to work for against the prison complex, and ways to work for in, you know, economic justice, I guess I would say, that's a lot.
What do you think? Where would you start? I mean, I guess for me, one of the things that one of the reasons I've written about this is at a certain point, and I was there, I had different starting points for writing about this, but one of them was I was getting
questions from students. And, you know, I'm like the teacher, I'm like, well, go look it up in the library, right? And they come back and be like, we're not finding anything. I'd be like, Oh, let me show you. And then I went and I was like, Oh, there's really nothing good, I can recommend here.
So that was one reason that I started to write about this and started to work on it. And then at a certain point, I realized, well, as a white person, what should I be saying? And I thought, well, I can either be silent, or I can speak. And now that I've done this work, I know some things.
And I need to share what I know. And then other people can do with that, what they want to do with it. But for me, it's a choice between speaking and not speaking. And not speaking is not the path I've chosen.
There's something interesting about what you said that I feel like as a practice, I'm trying to point out to others. It's like, speak or don't. But if you're going to speak, like, if what you're doing isn't helping the cause, you're literally speaking to silence it or try to apologetic.
Well, hold on, hold on, hold on, black slavery with blacks in America. It wasn't as bad in some place. Like, what are you doing, trying to like protect. So this is something I see happening a lot.
It happens with hyper conservatives, in my opinion, that are trying to somehow like act like we don't have all of this stuff that really needs changing. But anyway, I don't want to get political. I just, this is a social ethical issue.
It's much bigger than politics to me, even though it all has its webs connected. So yeah, I choose to speak. When I speak, I'm going to call the ugly out because I hope we change. And so for me, I don't know any other way than to just educate people to give them the facts and then they can chew on it.
And I think that I believe that most people will come out on the right side. I think most people who know this information, who see the facts, who understand it and aren't purposefully doing manipulative tactics, apologetics or deceptive work to try and defend and protect something that is what it is.
We'll find out like, okay, hold up. This makes sense now. One more and then we'll get to Jesus because that's really the hot topic, right? Like people want to hear what Jesus or Paul, early church is saying.
Matthew Pop says, did Saturnalia in Rome's freeing of its slaves influence Judaism or Christianity in any way, especially the early Christian movement?
So Saturnalia is a festival where sort of masters and slaves change places once a year. I guess I would say a practice like that actually probably ultimately actually reinforces the system.
I mean, it's like a moment of freedom, but it ultimately doesn't really disrupt the system at all. I actually, I think that the Rome's freeing of its slaves, that there was a possibility that enslaved people could be freed.
And it actually, it affects theology. It affects some of the ways that being manipulated or freed becomes a central Christian way of thinking that Jesus bought your freedom.
We got this in the New Testament in different ways, that you are purchased out from sin, that you are purchased out from sort of the charge of sin against you.
I think it affects it in various kinds of ways. There is a point at which there's a Christian practice that develops of manumission taking place in churches in a formal kind of way.
It doesn't seem to have expanded or it doesn't seem to have increased the frequency of manumission. I think what it did is, and then in a system where the church in late antiquity has become a kind of public institution.
It's in a place where those kinds of, where that can, where that's happening because it's now a public institution. So I'm not sure, yeah, I wouldn't necessarily say influenced in other ways.
Again, in some other setting, I'd be like, I want to hear more about what, behind the question and more about what you think in my classroom. That's always what my students ask a question and then they roll their eyes because I'm like, that's interesting.
You tell me.
Thank you so much for answering that. Sorry, I was pulling up some scriptures because the best thing we can do is look at them and try to understand them.
You do something. Again, you know how you said you're listening to blacks in America who are discussing this and you're like, whoa, I never saw that would have never thought of it this way.
I do that when I read your work and when I listen to you. And I think it's because coming from an alpha military home, you know, conservative hardcore family, that you know I don't, I don't have the sensitivities to noticing things that I've read my whole life as a Christian.
And now I read them and I'm like, ooh, I never thought to put myself in that kind of situation. So we have to we have to discuss.
I also think that once you start doing this work, then you start seeing it everywhere, you know, and so like, so here, let me give you an example of something that I bet a lot of your listeners will be like, huh.
So, Joseph, I'm actually doing some work now on the story of Joseph and John assists and he's of course sold into slavery by his brothers, which is horrible, terrible, you know, unbelievably bad.
But then you go like, wait, some of his brothers were the sons of enslaved women, right. So he sold into slavery, but it's, you've already got slavery in this family and some problematic ways.
Hmm. Did that affect the relationships among the brothers. And if you go back to the beginning of the Joseph story, what you'll see is the first mention of tension between between him and his brothers is was he's out shepherding with the sons of Bill hot and Zilpa and he brings back bad reports about them.
So you have a story in which he's actually shepherding with the sons of enslaved women and he comes back, and he wracks them out and they still should not have sold them into slavery.
But but when you start to think about this, this is already a family that has slave holding in its background.
I think you start seeing things like that that you hadn't really seen before and you thought, well, well, wait, what was it like growing up?
This family and I could go back and show you in places and Genesis places where this distinction continues to be made like throughout Genesis, the, you know, sort of the enslaved women or the female slaves, whatever you want to say and their sons go first in line or something like that.
So those distinctions continue to be made. And in some ways, I also would take that as a metaphor for where we are as Americans or Christians or however we're identifying ourselves that we come into families where this is already part of the pattern.
And, and so it takes a while to recognize like, oh, this isn't just happening in a vacuum, but this is happening against us. This really difficult.
All right, let's go to Jesus.
Okay, let's get to Jesus and then I'll get to your super chat there, Jay. Appreciate you in the house.
All right, pulled up some examples.
We'll start with.
Why not start with start with one that I thought you did a presentation on this you discuss this in your work that I was just like, okay, wow, did Jesus condemn it. Well, let's let's let's read something here in Luke 17.
And I think this is an important passage, Luke 17, seven through 10 has a shocking parable.
And that is, will any of you this is Jesus and he's speaking to his disciples.
So like, it's he's not talking like, generically, I know that people can find ways to make this mean something to them, but he's talking to his own.
Well, any of you who have a servant plowing or keeping sheep say to him when he has come in from the field, the end of the day, imagine coming home from work, come at once and sit down at the table.
Will he not, will he not rather say to him, prepare supper for me and gird yourself and serve me till I eat and drink and afterward you shall eat and drink.
Does he thank the servant because he did what was commanded.
Like you're supposed to do this.
So you also, when you have done all that is commanded to you, say, we are unworthy servants.
We have only done what was our duty.
Wow.
So and so the word servant there would be the Greek word for slave and and so it's not just that it's not even just that even that they were sugarcoating it when this was first translated into English, but the what servant and slave or those meanings shift
somewhat over time so there's a tradition.
Many English translations will say servant where any of you are translating any other Greek text from this period you would simply say slave the working slave.
And so that really that for me the incredibly awkward thing about that passage is that Jesus seems to be assuming that some of his listeners who are among the 12 might be slaveholders and I think to us that's startling like how could that be that's not possible.
He must mean something else and I guess one thing I would say is, Luke's a super precise writer Luke is a really, really good writer Luke does not just use like random words.
I mean, Luke is a very polished stylist.
You go back to the beginning of the Gospel of Luke and it's dedicated in this highfalutin way to one theophilus and, you know, so Luke Luke is always a sort of beautiful beautiful castman.
And, and so he's saying which of you who has a slave.
That's very startling, I think to us as 21st century readers, and we may find that impossible and I don't know what I think do I think that any of the 12 could have been slaveholders.
Whenever maybe it's my own piety it's really hard for me to go that far.
But I will say that Luke's closer to the situation than I am.
And Luke thinks it's like Luke just writes that like that's just, that's just there.
I would approach it maybe the way I approach it is a bit different of like, is there, like if we knew one of my own slaves at this point in my, my life, I wouldn't, it wouldn't affect me like I wouldn't feel defensive in any way.
It's more matter and I think I've heard you say this before that you're a minimalist in the sense of historically what is accurately the case that go to the Jesus seminar like what did Jesus really say, and what is the creation of the author.
Right. And so whether or not this is what Jesus really did because getting behind that curtain to see the wizard.
I don't know what we can trust and know with any reliability for sure.
I'm very open minded and at the same time agnostic about what is or isn't going back to the guy.
But this is at least the perception of the author and what they think Jesus is saying.
So at the very least it sounds that that angle is showing exactly what we're describing here.
I don't see any other way to get around this and what really got me was the key words, unworthy slaves.
We have only done what, what was our duty.
To me, I don't know. I mean, to me, to us today, we would look to go, ooh, like this is no good to them.
I don't think that they're thinking this way.
But you've mentioned also elsewhere where the word curious or going for the Christ or the Lord people and translated it as Lord.
You just go, no, this means master and it placing it within this slave world in the first century master is better suited.
Paul talks about being a slave to Christ.
I think he means, I'm not saying he thinks Jesus really over here is his slave master.
But in a real sense, he believes that that he is somehow a slave to Christ.
And would you discuss that somewhat?
So yeah, I absolutely think that that's the case.
And I think that this word curious, which we say Lord, but it is the word that you would also use to address a master that this is precisely the case.
And so when Paul is saying that he's a slave of Christ, I think he's saying a couple of things.
One is I think he thinks that he's, he's been purchased by Christ and he would use that language.
And I also think he thinks he's controlled by Christ.
I think that because he has the Numa, he's received the Numa of Christ, I think he's, he's being controlled.
So there's this, there's the slave holders fantasy of the enslaved person as being without a will.
So just the idea that the slave holding fantasy is that this enslaved person can sort of as a thinking acting extension of yourself, but who is only going to act on what you want and not what they want.
And Paul speaks of his own relationship to Christ that way.
It says, you know, being possessed and really controlled by the, by the Numa, as you say that.
Yeah, I mean, I hear that Numa pretty substantially by the Numa of Christ that, that he is enacting that.
I think that's, that's true.
And then what you do with that, I think is going to vary, vary by audience.
I think that there are some people who would say that that's a mode of liberation.
That's not where I go with this, but there are people for whom that's true.
There are communities who would talk about the experience that way.
But yeah, it's definitely just simply playing into that language.
Yeah, you're so I want to know the historical context like you and like literally try to figure out what it meant to them.
And this something came to mind while you were talking and it was purchased by Christ.
We have like entire Protestant movements that have a particular Christology in which they think that you need to know what kind of sacrifice Jesus has.
But using your model of slavery in early Christianity and understanding Paul within that world of slavery.
When he says he's purchased by Christ, you know, you can imagine like a cat Roman, not Roman, sorry, the Calvinist that have a like,
justified atonement where Jesus's blood literally in some way purchases the person, the soul of the of the human.
Does your understanding of slavery in this idea of Jesus's death and his purchasing of Paul change how one might understand that in its first century context versus how Calvinist and those who have kind of a reformed.
You get where I'm going with this right. Yeah, that's that's a hard question for me what I can say is I can see from the perspective of later church history, I can see why going back.
People would find that language there and what use they would make of it, but that doesn't necessarily mean that I think that arrow leads only there.
Right. And you could have that going out in in different kind of you know clearly it doesn't question history the way it plays out.
But that's part of I guess I would say is this isn't just about, you know, sort of power relations in American society or something like that but this is about how these this kind of
this kind of language has shaped our core ways of thinking right and and and not that this is the only way it could play out but once you start with these seeds.
This is this is where it goes. So I would say and I'm going to probably have to go in about 1015 minutes. I'm not even going to keep you that much longer.
I wanted to give you a few more examples and then we'll just hit these super chats. I really appreciate your time by the way.
You're awesome.
Next example is Luke 12.
So we're dealing with Luke chapter 12 42 through 48.
And the Lord said who then is the faithful and wise steward whom his master will set over his household to give them their portion of food at the proper time.
Blessed is that servant or slave whom his master when he comes when he comes will find so doing truly I say to you, he will set him over all his possessions.
But if that slave says to himself, my master is delayed in coming.
I think this is dealing with a parrotsia.
But if that service, okay, sorry, then and begins to beat the men servants and the maid servants and to eat and drink and get drunk.
The master of that servant slave will come on a day when he does not expect him and in an hour he does not know and will punish him and will put him with the unfaithful and the servant who knew his masters will but did not make ready
to act according to his will shall receive a severe beating.
So like he's playing this author is literally playing and of course there are synoptic parallels to this this passage in Matthew.
I don't know if there's a radical difference here but they're playing into this exact scheme of masters beating their slaves.
He doesn't condemn it.
He uses the model to kind of formulate his point of view to make sense of his point.
Yeah, you know, and I think that there's one thing that's really striking to me about that is the notion.
Okay, if you knew what you were doing and you still did the wrong thing, then you're going to be a severe beating.
But if you didn't know and you did wrong, when you're still going to get a light beating, it's just it's sort of what I was saying before about the acceptance that this is a world that accepts that, you know, sort of well, you know, a little bit of violence or just to keep people in line,
which is what I would think of as an older but still persistent attitude towards children.
Well, you know, you've got to whack them around a little bit, you know, otherwise.
And so there's kind of this this this acceptance of a certain level of violence as a pedagogical function, right, like the slave the slave.
And so obviously, the parable about is about something else, but it's based on a cultural expectation that this is okay, and even almost as though it's the moral thing to do like you it's your job.
And this would go then really more into the household epistles of the first time if it's your job to keep your household in order well you may not like it but you're just going to have to, you know, be a few people up every so often wife, kids,
you know, just sort of to, you know, keep them in line because you're in. So it's that kind of attitude that's that's behind this teaching.
Yeah, and I was thinking even in that like the master who's the master in this is, is this Jesus who's saying when he comes back because you're waiting on your master to return.
Is this Jesus is this Yahweh I'm not sure, but I imagine this is maybe Jesus by the time Luke's writing. I'm with you in second century Luke.
I've heard you mentioned that. But but the idea is the master is going to come and he's going to give this person a severe beating. I wonder if this is the paracea or if this is 70 ad don't know where to make of it.
There's so many different things but that was one that came to mind the last example and there's so many we could get into.
I want to be very kind of your time and I appreciate you so much. Let me zoom in so our audience can actually probably see. Okay, let's do this.
And he entered Capernaum a centurion came forward to him, beseeching him saying Lord, my servant is lying paralyzed or my slave is lying paralyzed at home in terrible distress.
He said to him, I will come and heal him. But the centurion answered him, Lord, I am not worried to have you come under my roof, but only say the word and my slave will be healed.
For I am a man under authority with soldiers under me and I say to one go and he goes into another come and he comes and to my slave do this and he does he does it.
When Jesus heard him he marbled and said to those who followed him truly I say to you not even in Israel have I found such faith.
I tell you many will come from east and west and sit at the table with Abraham, Isaac and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven.
While the sons of the kingdom will be thrown into the outer darkness where men will weep and gnash their teeth and the centurion said go be it done for you as you have believed and the servant was healed or the slave was healed at that very moment.
So the interaction here with at least is portrayed by the author that Jesus is interacting with slave owners, people who own people and this interaction we can learn a lot from this.
Yeah, so again when people say, oh, well, I have to say I don't really think that Jesus was in Galilee, I don't know if you would have encountered that many slaves.
One thing to remember is that that first century historian Josephus has a story from around, I know for BCE maybe a little after, in which there's a Galilean town, Sephirists which rebels and the entire population is sold into slavery.
So I think it's really plausible that, again, not like any particular moment we can historically verify, but it's historically plausible that Jesus grew up hearing about people in his vicinity who were enslaved.
And here you have a member of the military, maybe the Roman military in Galilee or maybe part of the Herodian military official and that person would have been a slave holder and Jesus is seen interacting with that person.
So when we think about details like that, we can begin to say, oh, this is a slave holding world, it doesn't look like, you know, I don't know, Tara from Gone with the Wind, right?
You know, it's a different configuration.
It's Galilee in the first century, but there were these encounters.
And then of course this thing of, it's, you know, so glad that Jesus is said to heal this enslaved person and I, Jesus had a reputation as a healer.
I think that's certainly true that he had a reputation as a healer.
So great.
But he is, he said that the really painful question about that story and it's different forms is, is he doing it on behalf of the enslaved person, or is he doing it for the centurion who becomes a model of faith?
You know, or is he doing it for the centurion?
Is he doing it in Luke's version as a really a favor to the leaders of the synagogue because the centurion's been a patron to the community?
And so you have this question of even who benefits from this action, obviously the enslaved person.
And yet there's a wider network of benefit, I know, of benefaction as well.
There's so many good things here you said.
And we only have two super chats next.
I just want to make a quick comment on that and that is, I can imagine people in America who own slaves who see this centurion as a great example of a man of faith who owns property, who owns people as property.
And finding that totally fine.
And you even see this with Joseph Smith.
I've got some scholars and historians who study Joseph Smith and the actions that he did where we would say polygamy.
And it's not like where modern consent is an issue.
This is like he's manipulating these girls saying God said and things like that.
And he ends up in these situations.
Well, people called him David, King David, and Jonathan was William Clayton, I think it was.
I can't remember.
They're like Jonathan and David in the context of 1830s.
Point is, like, he's finding a hero who can do these horrific or bad things.
And like King David had did and then going, well, he was a man after God's own heart.
I made mistakes.
So like you see how this could be justified within slavery in America.
You can also find where people try to maybe use certain passages in the other way.
Couple super chats and then I want to plug your books.
Hunter Biden's laptops, which my friend Jane, can you share an example of what people of color have said back to kind of what we were discussing earlier?
Yeah, you know, I would really I think a really great place to start would be Lisa bones African American readings of Paul is just such a, it's a good book but it's one of the things she quotes from.
A petition in Boston, I think in the late 18th century, where enslaved people are basically referring to the household cults and they're saying well we're Christians now we've been baptized.
And we know we have responsibilities as husbands and wives and children and parents.
And if we're enslaved, then we have to obey our masters and we can't do what a husband should do to a wife or wife should do to a husband.
We can't do what we can't do what a parent with a child or child with parents we have to obey our master so we think that now that we're baptized, we, we, you know, we really, we really think this is a problem is such a beautiful example because you see these really smart people in the 18th century and they're
learning some scripture and they're gone.
I mean, like, you know, it's a beautiful, it's a beautiful example. And just a lot of other examples of sort of Pentecostal readings of black Pentecostal readings of, of Paul, and just things like avenues of coming in and ways that that material has been
I wouldn't necessarily have come to myself and now I'm like, I think I will always mention that when I teach that particular passage, and also a number of black thinkers over the past, you know, 300 years for like, you know, this is not good for this is hierarchical.
And this is problematic so I could give others as well but it's, there's actually Emerson Powery also I've mentioned before his book on Genesis of liberation.
There's actually a lovely book on the Good Samaritan and the way that's been read across Christian history and so that's in really, really interesting ways that story has been read not even necessarily sometimes about slavery, sometimes not about slavery but
but the way that book has that that story has been read. So there are some, I mean, but there are dozens and dozens and dozens. These are scholars who are not just writing from scholarly perspectives, mentioning balance and and
power because they're not they're writing as scholars but they're also taking seriously the thought worlds of black Americans over the centuries so yes it's really important that that we now have, you know, PhDs and Bible from people from all different
backgrounds and that we have all those different voices, but I also think it's important to hear the honor the other voices we've been reading these texts for hundreds of years as well.
Wow, thank you.
Matthew Pop says did slaves serve Jesus disciples at Last Supper.
Oh, don't don't ruin my Easter season.
Oh, let me please have something left.
Let me just say they serve themselves.
It's not like a buffet, right? It was like a pot log buffet. I don't know and I don't know. And yeah, but that's a good question.
It's it is an interesting question, Matthew Pop. I really appreciate it. Everybody who's helped us out. Here's the book. We're wrapping up. I hope that now you know who Dr. Jennifer Glancy is.
I hope you go get a copy. I've got three of her books. I think that's how many published you've written. I mean, you, you have been involved in several other things but and you're working on stuff now you said you weren't going to tease us with yet.
But yeah, I'm some of the stuff I'm working on is the Joseph material. So that's that's the sort of looking at slavery, looking at slavery throughout Genesis, and then also looking at the way those stories are retold in the ancient world.
But and if you have readers out there who are a good place to start is that book slavery is moral problem. It's, you know, sort of, it's just the easiest.
Get a copy of the book, leave a review on Amazon, help her out. We also have courses where we act we we record with academics and you can actually go and take the course online for K all high quality.
I worked my butt off Dr. Glancy. I try to help educate and bring this stuff to the world. You can also check our Patreon out and help support us there but do us a favor, get a copy of the book, educate yourself, spread this inside everywhere and I want to give you the last word.
Thank you. Thank you so much. My last word is thank you to everyone who tuned in and who's listening. I just really I appreciate it and I appreciate the format because it enabled me to speak at length, but I also just like the little tantalizing questions that you ask.
I just like, oh, I could talk more and directly what a pleasure talking to you. So the final word is just thank you just gratitude.
Well, we thank you and I hope that we can do this in the future, maybe when you publish on Joseph because I love the story. I saw something interesting there. Do you have like 30 seconds I can just
Okay, I thought of the Lord Supper trying to find memetic connections to the Hebrew Bible. Joseph is literally running out of Potiphar's house naked. He's in a dungeon.
He hears two men who have a dream. I'm like really just kind of skimming here but one is a wine bearer. The other one is a baker, both from the King's household. They have a dream. The dream is in three days one will be condemned and head on a pike.
The fouls of the air will eat his flesh the whole nine. The other one is you're going back into Pharaoh's house baby and you're gonna stay alive and everything's gonna be good in three days.
And as he's leaving the dungeon, Joseph says, Hey, hey, hey, remember me. Jesus says do this in remembrance of me. So I thought maybe you have wine, the wine bearer, you have a baker, the bread, you have do this in remembrance me in three days.
Like, I thought maybe and notice he ends up exiting and is seated at the right hand of Pharaoh. I mean, he's like kind of like a model of Christ. So I thought maybe there's something to it. And it was
I that's a great insight and that's a nice little gift. So nice way to end the end the session.
Thank you. And I'll see you around if you want to stick around I'm going to give the intro again here at the outro for people but thank you.
Okay. Okay, thanks.
When we hear the word slavery, Ben, we think of slavery as it existed in the American South.
And as you know, that is nothing like the system that existed in ancient Israel. In ancient Israel, there was no social safety net sponsored by the state. There was no poverty program.
So if a man got himself into a situation where he couldn't pay his debts, he could keep his family together and retain his self respect by selling himself as an indentured servant to his creditor until he could work off his debts.
And then he would have to be set free. After seven years, he had to be set free in any case. So this was really a form of indentured servanthood. It wasn't slavery as we think of that term. This was actually an anti poverty program.
And in some respects, I think it's better than what we have in modern Western culture, which destroys families, ruins people's self respect because they're not working. Whereas in ancient Israel, a man retained his self respect.
He worked for an income. He paid his debts. He kept his family together. And that to call that slavery is just a gross misrepresentation.
I think it's better than what we have.
