Welcome to our channel. Today we have Santos Panacci. Red's gonna join us here in a few
minutes. He's just finishing his dinner. Yeah, here he is actually. Okay, you broke up for
a minute there, but you're good now. Yeah. Do you hear that question or should I repeat
that? Yeah, repeat place. Yeah. So my friend Joey's asking why is it permissible to smoke
cannabis if we can't remember our dreams? He says it seems the function of the pineal
gland is to have those visions and those dreams. I guess that was part of his experience where
he broke up four days after smoking cannabis and he was able to have these clear dreams
or something. So I don't know what your experience is with that. Yeah, well, I take cannabis
daily. And I recommend it because it's the preferred biblical incense that God requires
to be. So in the Bible, God, God asks that cannabalsum be offered as incense to him.
So it's showing already the the stature of this plant as a divine plant. If God, the
God of the universe is asking for cannabalsum. And this is five times in the Bible. It's
not once. It's not a mistake. It's five times. And this is cannabis. So it's a holy plant.
Because theogen, meaning that it gives you theos, God might have a divine you divinize
through cannabis. That's how I got all my syncretism. I got every single. Of course,
I've told I say this in all my presentations or my interviews. I never, I never do anything
straight. And I'm on cannabis right now. I want to shut this world out. I want to do
syncretism. I'm devoted to syncretism and cannabalsum. Cannabalsum is God's best plan to divinize
the mind. So is that affected in your dreams or anything yet? Can if it becomes toxic,
you don't want to be abusive of it. I mean, I'm regular, but I'm a very, very moderate
consumer of anything. I've never been, I've never been into alcohol. I've never been
into tobacco. Well, I did. I smoke five years when I was younger. Tobacco. But I don't have
any addictions. It might look like I've got an addiction when I'm, you know, having a
bit of a puff. But because I do it regularly, but I also eat and drink regularly, you know,
when I have to. So I do not allow it to become toxic. I do not allow it to be something of
abuse. I use, it's something of use. I think a lot of that has to do with your state of
mind when you're partaking of it too. You know, if you're doing it for, you know, to
abuse it, of course, you should probably work that out. But if it's like a sacred thing
to you, I think that if you're doing it with the mentality of this helps me connect with
God, I don't see an issue with that at all. Yeah, of course, you have to do everything
in a sacred light. Everything. All your days must be sacred. It's the only way to ascend.
Right. So Craig's asking what do you believe about the afterlife? And I think I remember
you talking about this through like some of the Hindu where you have the picture of the
different levels of heaven. And then like what are we and what happens to us after we die?
Well, there is really no such thing as death. Death is a composite of two words, door and
ether. Death is the door to the ether. Because our soul is bound by four elements, plasma,
gas, liquid, solid, which in astrology and the platonic solids elements are fire, air, water
and earth. So we know what our body is. We know that. So when the body is finished, it's used
to ascend the soul and improve the soul at times during the course of a life. Then it
returns to the ether and has to go through the doorway, the portal to the ether because
it's the quintessence, the fifth element that modern science has eliminated. They've eliminated
the ether that all the philosophers said was the elixir of life was the the essence of the
divinity. And all scriptures say this. So death is door ether. And so you're returning to your
unconditioned state in the ether. Here we are conditioned. Right now, as I say this, I'm looking
south to California from Oregon, and I'm beholding Mount Chester. Right? Yeah, familiar with that
drive. Yeah. So it's beautiful. Right. So how is that like that would be represented by like the
solstices, I guess on the zodiac, this is the gate of the gods and the gates of men. And then how
would that translate into like the Bible story, because I kind of connected that through the
Exodus story, where they enter into the promised land, I would almost see that as sort of representing
that transition from death to life, or from the from the wilderness period into the into the heaven,
or, I guess, how would you picture the wilderness period in the Bible as it relates to our journey?
Well, the wilderness is the the cycles of necessity that our soul goes through. When we incarnate,
and have torso, torus, field, bodies, full of atoms, anatomy, then this is all an experience. This
is all a life where we have an opportunity to ascend to improve the essence of the being.
And so the wilderness is the soul's journey through incarnation, it's a wilderness, because
there's obstacles in the wilderness, there's death, there's danger,
there's harm in the wilderness. And whereas, when we go home to our natural unconditioned state,
nothing can harm us. There's no there's no fear, there's only love.
And so we don't want to be in the wilderness, we want to get baptized and
enter the the promised land, the promised land is in the head, the pineal gland.
See, when you when you go through the wilderness, you're going up the spinal column and raising the
christic foods, so that they can be reinstated in the head, heaven heaved up, heaven, the promised
land is here, the land flowing with milk, paturistic land, and honey, pineal gland.
So that's the prison, right? Yeah, sorry, didn't mean to interrupt you. I was just going to ask
you, Santos, where did you first hear about this? Did you maybe get it as some sort of like a revelation
that hit you? Or did you hear about it from someone else first? Because that has always
fascinated me about your videos. It's actually my favorite thing to listen to you talk about
is the chrysm and the Kundalini energy going up the spine. And I'd love to hear you talk on that,
if you wouldn't mind. Well, there is a process whereby the nervous system
is transformed in the human organism. And when this happens, one becomes christened,
christened with the chrism, the cerebrospinal fluid, which is the oil or the Lord or the lard.
The oil is the lard, and lard gives you Lord. And so when you follow the Lord,
you are following the process of elevating the chrism so that you can have more charisma.
And what happens is you are now providing the materials
for the cerebrum to generate a 13th cranial nerve. And it's called the Christ nerve. So you have your
12 cranial nerves, and the materials come from the cerebrospinal fluids. And if those are
ejaculated, ejected during the course of sex, then those materials are being squandered. In fact,
one becomes a degenerate when they ejaculate.
All right, so Santos, my question was, where did you first hear that? And how did you come
up with this whole ideology based on that? Because you seem to have a very deep understanding of it.
And I'm sure, you know, after years of studying it, but where did you first hear it?
From a man called Samuel Aounweor from Colombia, who teaches the perfect matrimony. There's a
book called The Perfect Matrimony. And he started ancient literature from all around the world,
and ancient theologies, and discovered that they were all based on this process, a 12-year process
of transforming the nervous system. And also, there's another writer, George Carey.
He writes about this in the book, God Man, The Word Made Flesh. So what you have
is the true story of Christianity, which is how we not only ascend the human condition
by transforming the nervous system, by keeping it clean. This is why vaccinations, chemtrails,
and all this dental work with mercury, etc., is harming people. Because its intention is to sabotage
and destroy the human antennae, antennae system, the tree of life, from operating at its maximum.
And hence people become, they get Alzheimer's, dementia, etc., because the nerve endings
have been fried. And these are the nerve endings that should have been growing, not fried.
And even if you don't develop the 13th cranial nerve, which is called the Christ nerve,
which gives you access to all the acacia records, and all of your power,
and all of your glory and divinity, even should you not get to that, because it has to do with
white tantra, which is sexuality, and has to be 12 years with the same partner in a perfect
matrimony, a holy matrimony, where they both enable the nervous system to ascend, to transform.
So it's a partnership, in a way, with someone that's holy to you?
Yeah. Thomas H. Burgoyne says that you can only do this with the one partner.
And, yeah, it's, so promiscuity is the left-hand path, and pure white tantric sex will be the
right-hand path. Celebrity is in the middle. Celebrity is just nothing other than stagnancy,
where the sexuality is not used to raise those fluids to provide the materials for the
cerebrum to do its work, to transform the nervous system, because the human nervous system is
way more advanced than the animals. And it has to do with the development of the new nervous system,
what will be the consciousness of the individual. So anyone who has nerve damage or who has
weak nerves, etc., that will affect their consciousness.
So how old is this teaching? Did these guys get it from the Zoroastrians?
Yes. The Zoroastrians thought that anyone who pre-meditatively committed an ejaculation
would eternally be damned. There's no salvation for anyone who says, well, I'm going to have an
ejaculation now. They are eternally damned, unless they stop and repent, because they have to stop
destroying the nervous system and depleting their brains. You see these people who ejaculate all
the time, masturbating and just ejaculating. You see, they are depleted. They don't have any
charisma, because they don't have any charisma. And then they said about preventing young men from
destroying their lives by ejaculating, and they would set up seminaries where they will
learn about seeing retention in this. Wow, I never put that together.
So there's a reason why there are seminaries. Yeah, okay. So I think our listeners would want
to know this as well. Have you put this into practice in your own personal life, and what is
that brought about? Like, what are the effects of putting this into practice and actually making
this a lifestyle? Well, I started learning about this in 2007, and then built up with my then
Japanese wife partner, built up developing this and developing how to learn how to do an implosion
orgasm, so that there is no loss of minerals, there is no loss of life force. Because during that
five years, I was noticing, because I'd learned how bad and detrimental the ejaculation was,
not only physically, but spiritually, everlastingly harmful, that I was paying attention and noticing
that every time I ejaculated, because I was doing gray tantra, not white tantra, which is no
ejaculation, gray tantra is occasional ejaculation, and then black tantra is only ejaculation.
And so I was noticing that I would feel depleted, tired, devastated,
annoyed, irascible, argumentative, depressed, empty, unfulfilled. The only time you're
fulfilled is when you have your orgasm, which is not supposed to be ejaculated, it's supposed to be
imploded, and there's a technique and a way to do this, it has to be developed.
So I did this for five years, and then 2012, after suffering enough of the horrible effects of
ejaculation, totally sacrilegious and blasphemous activity, I started on the pure path, and now I'm
enjoying white white tantra when I have a partner. I have had another partner since
my Japanese wife, and so yeah, I've been doing that, and I will never return to the ejaculation
lifestyle. I'm 56, and I'm the healthiest man I know. I've recently made a great recovery from
parasites and restored my health. I'm the happiest I've ever been. As I said, I'm healthy,
I don't have any problems with me, no diseases, no syndromes. I'm still doing the parasite
protocols, animal dewormer called fenbenzadol and ivermectin, that saved my life,
and restored my health, and now I'm happy, settled, I'm not frustrated anymore.
Hey guys! Hey Santos! How was your day? Hey, hey guy man, pretty good.
Yeah? Oh, I didn't get the memo apparently, everyone's got beanies, but me. Hold on, I can fix that.
I love my beanies.
Yeah, we got the beanie theme. I'm gonna have some water, and then...
So there was a couple of questions that got, we got caught before you could hear them, so I might
kind of go through those again, and then we can just continue. And I'd like to kind of focus on
some of the Bible stuff too, because it's always fun to review that, and that's...
Hey Kevin, before you get into that real quick, have you explained to Santos exactly like what
we're doing on this channel or anything like that? No, no, like how much do you know about
our show on YouTube Santos? Have you seen anything for it or...?
No. No, okay. Well uh, we're interviewing some pretty, well honestly like,
the biggest names we can get in experts in their field when it comes to mythology,
astrothiology, fringe science, and all of the stuff, all of their subject matter concerning
pretty much the Bible and religion, and different views on eschatology, the end times,
and what it is to be human. And we're really doing a deconstruction
of Christianity at any religion really. We're finding that Christianity has ties with many
different mythological pastimes, and which is what brings us to you Santos, is you have
syncretism down to a T. It's an art and a science for you, and that's why we were really excited
to get you on the show, is I've been a fan of yours for years. I've commented on a few of your
YouTube videos. I'm really excited to have you here, and I know that I'm speaking for all of
mythvision when we say it's privileged to have you on the show today. Oh absolutely. Thank you man.
Thank you. Appreciate that very much. Yeah, and maybe I'll just share how I found out about you.
I was actually in a Facebook debate group, and I was still a Christian, and I was looking at
full preterism versus the Israel only view of eschatology. Have you heard of either of those,
Santos? Of Jewish eschatology? Yeah, there's a couple different views that are getting popularized
today. There's preterism, which is pretty much that everything's fulfilled, but it still applies
to everybody, and then, and this is all concerning the Bible and the gospel, and then there's Israel
only, which is the statement that everything in the Bible, everything written in the Bible,
was only for covenant Israel, and has nothing to do with anybody else. They both have good points,
they both have bad points in my opinion, but have you heard of those?
Yes, more or less, but there's many eschatologies, and all the religions have the
perspective of it, and they all have their understandings, and I think they're all limited,
because for a start, Israel has nothing to do with a genetic race. It has to do with a spiritual
race. The Israel of God is God's chosen people, the prophets. I agree with that, but the Israel
only movement would say, no, I'm sorry Santos, you're wrong, you've misinterpreted the scriptures,
it's all about covenant Israel and the nation of Israel 2000 years ago. What would you say to that?
Because I deal with these people every day, and to be honest, it's really hard for me to keep my
cool sometimes with them, because I mean, to me, it's quite obvious that whoever wrote the
Gospels meant for it to be for everybody. I mean, I think that's pretty clear in the literature,
but they have their ways, and I'm sure Kevin could tell you as well, that it's pretty clear that
they believe this is only for national Israel 2000 years ago. Well, yeah, they're trying to
save people from the Bible's doctrines by saying, oh no, this was for them, and they do that by
looking at the time statements in the Bible. So when I was in this debate group, somebody
actually told me about you, Santos, and talking about the ages, the ages of the great year,
and that's when I figured out, wait a minute, this is all astral theology, because it's talking
about these ages, and if you look at the time statements, it lines up with the end of that,
the age of Aries, and the beginning of the age of Pisces. So that was a big switch for me to go
from this kind of literal historical view to more of this ancient astrology view, which really helped
me, actually. And see, that's the problem, Santos, a lot of these Israel-only guys are actually
biblical literalists that take everything as literal history, and I'm wondering where you
stand on that point. Well, this is it. I mean, the esoteric Jews, they know that it's not. Moses
Ben Moses of the 11th century in Spain wrote much on this, that he ridiculed people who took
their writings, literally, he said, such is just a fool, because these are cloaks that you put on
a garment. You must take off the cloak and see what is inside the garment. In other words,
this is not written on a level of literalism. It's a literary work, and it's a work that's
Can you hear me? Are you aware that Paul himself, I don't remember exactly which letter it is, but
he says that anyone who thinks the resurrection is a physical event is a fool. What do you have
to say to that? Yeah, of course. The resurrection is the resurrection of your Christ nature. We
have a subtle body and a higher mind, and if we don't ever get in tune to it, we'll always be trapped
in the carnal mind. And so, you've got to resurrect, so you've got to let the dead bury the dead,
because they're not going to resurrect. Inside of you, you have what is like a Christmas tree,
it's your cerebral spinal nervous system. And it's your purpose here, if you want to ascend,
to nourish it and keep it electrical, you know, the nerves, the nervous system,
because that's your Christ in you. And when that evolves, you can actually evolve your nervous
system. You can grow a 13th cranial nerve, you can strengthen your nervous system, you can grow new
wiring in your nervous system. And that's what you're supposed to do. But if you've got vaccines
with mercury, formaldehyde, and dentist work with mercury in it, and chemtrails with all these toxins
in it, well, then those attack the nervous system. And see, this is where Alzheimer's, and autism,
and dementia is coming in, and multiple sclerosis. It's because of the debilitated nervous system.
And this is... No, Santos, when you mentioned the 12th cranial nerve, and you said you can evolve a
13th, is it possible, in your opinion, to evolve past a 13th even, and maybe do a 14th and a 15th?
How does that work? And can you explain that? Well, I don't know about that. But
once you reach the 13th nerve, you have all you want. You now have your full Christmas tree,
your subtle body is complete, you've done the work, you've been rewarded. And so, you'll never
return to another state. Once you reach a high state, why would you return back to a former state?
You know, would a six-year-old child return back to his three-year-old toys? He's just
lost his three-year-old toys. Is 13 a secret number? Yes, it is, yes.
Sorry, go ahead. Yes, it is, of course. Because it's the number four. It's the second number four.
Four is a positive four. Well, the second number in that sequence, 13, will be a negative four.
But it's still four, and four is the number of death. Just ask the Japanese.
So, 13 being a negative four is always very, well, it's a tricky number. You know, it can have
luck. What do you mean by that? How is 13 a negative four? Can you explain that?
Well, because in the series, it always goes positive, negative, neutral, transient,
a transitional. So, in other words, there are 12 numbers in the universe. Many say there are nine.
Well, they are correct as well. But they're leaving out the three transitional numbers at the end,
10, 11, 12. So, you have trinities, four trinities of numbers. The first three numbers, one, two,
three are positive. Four, five, and six are mimicking one, two, and three. They are the same thing,
but they are negative one, two, and three. Seven, eight, nine are neutral one, two, and three.
And 10, 11, 12 are transitional. And so, in a series, the first number is always the positive one.
And then the second one will be negative. So, that's why 13 gets the bad rat. It's more negative than
four, which is the number of death, the number of the four elements that have given you your body
of death. You've died here from your true spiritual unconditioned nature in heaven. You've come here
to die. You're dense. Well, Kevin, what do you think has to do with the number, you know,
in the Bible in Revelation, it says, you'll know the... Well, I was just reminded... Yeah, I was
reminded of like the 13 cycles of the moon or where every 12 months, I guess you have to replace the
a month and every 33 years to make up for the difference between the sun and the moon cycle.
So, this would... So, I thought that might have something to do with this number 13,
with the lunar calendar and the solar calendar, but I don't know. I was just a theory I had. I
didn't hear it anywhere or anything, but... All right, because like Judas might be like the 13th
disciple who gets betrayed maybe at the end of the year for... Yeah, yeah. Right before the sun
goes into the solstice and dies and rises. So, true. Me, it would have to be something. It seems
to happen chronologically in the Gospels where Judas gets betrayed. He's almost like the 13th.
And didn't Paul see himself as the 12th, that he'd be actually like the real 12th disciple?
Yeah, I don't know. Well, yeah. Well, yes, he didn't consider himself of the 12th, but it was
an apostle. So, the apostles were 12, but that's because the apostles means that the
apostles, the posts of L and those posts were 12 zodiacal signs, you see. So,
the 13th is always having to do with... Yeah. Yeah. And the same with disciples. They are
disc-ipals. You see, if you want to be disciplined in whatever you do, you have to know the cycles.
You have to know how nature works. It's cyclical. And if you don't understand how those cycles work,
they always start in areas and finish in pices and have 12 conditions along the ecliptic of every
wife, then you don't know anything about wives. I know Kevin had a question about that.
The whole disc cycle saying, Kevin, would you want to elaborate on that?
Well, what do you mean exactly by discs? Because I think you might have even just
clarified it. Because is the disc... Well, the disc is the wheel of astrology. There's no other disc.
That's the disc. The disc is the wheel of astrology. The 12 posts, the 12 gods in the
strong's concordance. In the strong's concordance. And how does that add to...
Like, where did you hear? How did you hear about the wording for that? How did you...
Is that etymology? How did that go? How did disc go from the original languages
into the English like that? How does disc in English...
How did you get disc from the disciple? Was that in history? Or was that before Christianity?
Because that's how disciplined ones were. They were disciplined.
Okay, so Mike, I guess I'm asking for you, Kevin, if you don't mind.
So the whole disc cycle thing. I've heard you say that before in a couple of your videos.
And I'm wondering, you know, the etymology of the word disc. That's an English word.
Of course, we think of a disc when we hear the word disc, but disc cycle was translated from
the Hebrew and the Greek. So how does it go from... How does the meaning of the word disc in English
translate from the Hebrew and the Greek to actually back up what you're saying there?
What I mean is in the original languages, when they're talking about the disciples,
it makes sense in English to us, but did it make sense at the same time in the Hebrew and the Greek?
Oh, yeah, of course. Of course, they all syncretize. They might not use the word disc,
but you'll find it will return. It will always be rooted in the word cycle.
See, when Jesus is walking on the circuit of Galilee, with his 12 apostles,
you go to Strong's Concordance and it tells you that that circuit of Galilee is the
circuit of the Zodiac, the ecliptic of the Zodiac, which the Greeks talk about.
So there you go. Thank you, Strong's. Thank you. We know that Jesus is the Son on the ecliptic,
because you're telling us. You know, they tell you. So it's like we got the word disc from that.
The word disciple actually comes from a circuit based on the Zodiac.
Well, it's in the... Yeah, it's always. Look at the word.
Okay, I didn't mean to... So Kevin...
Well, are you interpreting based on how it's being used in the story with the word Galilee?
And then you see the big picture and you realize, oh, this whole thing is based on the Zodiac.
Therefore, you're making sense of this word disciple. That's what's happening, right? That's a
syncretism. Yeah. And so you're saying, in other words, Santos, that's what the writers of the
Gospels had in mind. Well, yeah, there was... Did you hear that? Well, that's what it's all about.
When you know what the Bible is really all about, you'll see what these words and some of the
badly translated, you'll just know you have the keys to understanding it. They're not that
difficult at all. Once you understand that it's based on your body, man is the measure of the
universe, and the ecliptic runs straight from the fontanel, straight through you, through your
perineum, and then reaches the bottom chakra at your feet. And that's the ecliptic of the sun.
It goes through your body. And there's Aries, Taurus, Gemini, Cancer, Leo, Virgo, all the way down to
the two feet, Pisces, the two feet, the two fish. And so the ecliptic is a man. It's known to be a
man, and that man's called Adam Kadmon. So Mike, I have a question that got cut off last time.
It was, we were talking about the raising of the chrism and this experience that you can have,
basically, where you reach a state of happiness or joy. And my question is, how did it begin? Do you
think that somebody experimented with this on themselves and then write the mythology for it?
Or I guess it would have had to have happened experientially before people actually understood
how it worked. Yeah, and I would add to that, Santos, what part did DMT play in that?
Because I know that you're privy to Dimethyltryptamine as well.
Well, yeah, and like, well, in theory,
go on. Yeah, well, the yogi, I just was listening to these yogis and they talk about the two paths,
one of devotion and one of knowledge. So it sounds like you can almost
raise your chrism without actually understanding how that's happening.
So like, in the... Yeah, well, the thing is, there was training. There was training about
raising the chrism in the seminary. You see, that's why, as I said in the last week's show,
that's why young men were sent to seminaries to learn how to practice semen retention,
you know, and to learn how to use it, utilize it to make a 13th cranial nerve. So it was serious
business and they took a great pleasure and responsibility in following this science because
people were getting enlightened. So I think I answered your question there, yeah?
Yeah, yeah, I think so. Kevin, if you don't mind, I had a question for you that I have been
thinking about over the last couple of days. So the signs of the zodiac and the ages pertaining
to the Gospels themselves, because that's kind of what we're focused on here is
understanding the biblical literature, what it means for us today, how to apply it.
Jesus represents the age of Pisces. Now, my understanding in the ecliptic,
which is working backwards through the zodiacal signs, Pisces is the final age before, well,
Pisces actually in backwards working through on the ecliptic cycle, Pisces would be the first
because it's right after Aries, right? If you're going backwards to the ecliptic.
So what does that represent for us today? Have we moved into, did the Gospels, were the Gospels
trying to alert us as humanity? We're moving into a new age. And what does that imply? And do you
have anything to speak to concerning that? Well, yes, it's coming into the age of Aquarius,
because this is a processing cycle. In other words, it goes contrary to the other movements.
The flow of the year, for instance, the stone is always going Aries,
Aries, Taurus, Gemini. It's not going backward. It's not going Aries, Pisces, Aquarius.
But the big cycle is processing. It does go backwards. And so, yeah, Pisces has had its day,
really. It's probably all naffed out, probably a little bit more to go. And that might be till
the end of next year, the 21st of December 2020, where both Jupiter and Saturn will be zero degrees
Aquarius, right on the cusp between Capricorn and Aquarius, which are Saturn's ruling signs.
And when they are there, zero degrees, which hasn't happened for a long, long time. Possibly the last
time was a couple of thousand years ago, when they both were conjunct in Pisces, same position,
zero degrees. They say that it was not zero degrees. I think it was seven or eight degrees. But
nonetheless, this zero degrees is very, very, very interesting. It's going to be,
it will be significant day. I don't know what might happen. I might have to look into it a bit
more. Check out the other aspects in the chart. But that alone tells you that something special
about Aquarius is coming. And that's going to usher in the New Age, I believe.
And what do you think that New Age entails though? Sorry, Kevin, I didn't mean to interrupt you.
I was just wondering, Santos, we're interviewing you. I wanted to get your input on what do you
think the New Age for moving from Pisces, which would be the first sign on the backwards movement
on the ecliptic. Pisces was the beginning of something. We're now moving into Aquarius. And
I'm wondering what you think that that means for humanity.
Well, it'll be an age of enlightenment. The waters are not an element of thinking.
Air is an element of thinking. And they are mental science and spiritual.
So there's going to be a link between the intellect and spirituality,
you know, the knowledge-based spirituality, scientific spirituality, which is what
syncretism teaches. I mean, syncretism really has returned. It's been snuffed out in the renaissance
times. It was snuffed out in the Hellenic times. And it's been really attacked. And so
that kind of stuff can happen, say, in the age of Pisces, but it won't happen in Aquarius,
because the knowledge will be abundant, as it says in Scripture. The day will come when the
knowledge of the true God will be filled all earth. Yes. And that actually reminds me of a
verse in the Gospels where Jesus himself says, there comes a day when you will no longer ask me
for anything. And I kind of see that playing out where we're realizing our divinity, in a sense,
we're one with God. We've always been one with God, in my opinion, but we're starting to learn that
fact and understand our true origins and our true identity as one with everything else.
Do you agree with that? Yeah.
Yeah, for sure. That's what's going on. Yeah, you look at the language of the New Testament,
and it says you shall no longer teach your neighbor anything, because the truth is going to be obvious.
And that's, I think, what's going to be happening. The more science advances, and we actually become
more holistic and with our science. So what happened then? In your opinion, Santos, what happened?
If people had this knowledge in the first century, I mean, do we blame the song The Dark Ages and
the burning of all these libraries? Well, I guess you would blame them on the enemies of
this knowledge, people who can't afford to have an enlightened humanity. And that would be the
rich people, the very powerful rich people who control things at the top. And it would also be
entities that control them from the trans dimensional. And they would be demonic, because
they have to be because generally,
benign, that's interesting stuff to me. What can you explain? What's your understanding on
this trans dimensional reality we live in? I don't know if you have you had some questions
lined up on that point, Kevin, but that fascinates me, especially with Santos, because Santos seems
to have some innate knowledge. My understanding through the Bible is that these entities are
almost like thought forms, like the principalities. It talks about the powers and principalities of
the air. I think it talks about it in Ephesians. So it's like, it almost sounds like this war of
ideas. And those ideas might be thought forms, which are then called spirits,
just like ideas are metaphysical. So these things might be metaphysical. So I'm wondering.
Well, that's what I mean. Santos, do you think that these entities have like a physical reality
somewhere in a finer energy or something or a finer matter? Do they actually physically exist?
Or is it really all in our minds? And my Kevin is saying it's all us overcoming our thoughts.
Well, they don't physically exist, but they exist. It's like the file on your computer
is full of pictures. Now, they don't physically exist in that file. They're in
they're in a counter space. They're not spatial, but it's information that can be unraveled
electrically. And then all of a sudden you've got pictures on your screen. So that's how they exist.
Well, they're not really in counter space, but the atoms are not physical in the sense that
we can see them. They are the spiritual atoms. And so they have they do have like a I know,
well, like a soul, they have ghosts, right? Or some of them are more powerful, but the soul factor
is missing. You see, so they are entities, you could call them spirits, but there's no soul there.
The soul is what then makes the body. So and they're intelligent and they're complete beings,
and they have atoms of higher attenuation than our atoms. So they're
and so vibrating at a higher frequency than ours are.
Yeah, for sure. And they exist. It's like the frequency of the information that's in your
computer files, you know, whenever you need that information, you know, it's there. You turn your
reboot your computer and you can find it. And it's great information. It's, wow, it's voluminous.
But it doesn't take up any space. It's not you can't you'll never see it. You can't open you.
Have you seen Zoolander when he tries to get that file out of the computer and he's hitting
the computer trying to break it open to find the file that has all the information he needs?
Well, this is it. So what do you think about like deliverance ministries in like the Christian
charismatic church? Well, they're they're all corporate, they're money making schemes and they
teach that Jesus is literal and he's coming back. You'll never be able to come back out of out of the
pages of the Bible where he was born and returns in literature, you know, so waiting for him is
futile. They've turned like a nursery rhyme for adults called a gospel into literal history.
So if you want to swallow it that way, that's fine. You know, it's fine if people want a literal
Jesus savior, you know. Santos on that exact matter you're speaking to right now. So Jesus
himself said that, you know, he's speaking to his contemporaries, to people living in his time,
in his generation. And he says, some of you standing here will not pass away before you see
the Son of Man return in his glory. What does that mean to you?
Well, because in this incarnation, you have a chance of seeing Christ if you do the good works
before you die. If you die, then you'll have to do it in the next life. But he's saying some of you
are good enough. You will see the Christ before you die. You know, I can see that you're at the level
and that Christ must be awakened in you, a la Colossians 1.27, the Christ that dwells in you.
Okay. Have you heard of the creating Christ franchise? It's kind of picking up popularity
right now. It's based on the fact that the Romans created the myth of Jesus and that
they wrote into the Jewish history that there would be a person that was coming.
And it would be Vespasian, which actually historically Vespasian did fulfill
most all of what Jesus prophesied. So what do you think about that? Because that honestly has
been a huge topic on our channel. Okay. This is how it works. When the Julians corporatized Rome,
Julius Caesar, the Julian lineage lasted about 70, 80 years.
Yeah, about 80 years. And so Julius Caesar is the original Jesus Christ from the Roman
perspective. They just changed it. You see, both died on the Ides of March, but one passed the
Rubicon, one passes the Jordan, one gets betrayed by Brutus, the other by Judas, one goes to Copernic
and one goes to Nile. It's the same story. Then when Vespasian, so the Julio-Claudians lasted
up until the Flavians. Yes, the Flavians. It was at that time that Josephus, Flavius Josephus,
wrote this doctored history of the Jews and made them literal. The Jews were always
the high Brahmin caste. Jews were always people who were elevated of consciousness,
and so they didn't have a nation. They never had a nation, you see. Because this is not for
them to have a nation. It's not for philosophers to be material in that sense only. You see, so
when the Flavians came, they did the same trick. They needed a god. They needed the son, the son
of God Titus, who destroyed Jerusalem and the temple. And so now the Flavian dynasty is deified,
and now they are legitimate, you see, because now Vespasian, Vespasian who killed Vitellius,
the last of the Julio-Claudians, now is God, and he did miracles in Rome, and he resurrected
people. Oh, sure, sure. And he fulfilled everything that Jesus said. Yeah, so that's what my question
is then, Santos. Could this all be the Gospels, you know, put aside the writings of Paul, but the
Gospels themselves, the Synaptics, could they be a corporate political agenda to quell the Jews,
or is there something deeper going on here, or is it both? And really, my question to you is,
what do you think about that situation going on right there? Because there's esoteric knowledge
in the Bible. There's no doubt. But did the Romans have some kind of inner road into that?
Sorry, did you hear that question? Did the Romans have some kind of... Well, look, it's like this.
Go on. No, that was my question is... Sorry. It appears to me from everything, you know,
I'm a pastor's kid. I've studied this my whole life. I've kind of found the literalist historical view
quite lacking. And I'm on a truth for knowledge here, which is what our whole page is about.
And that's why we've invited you here today, because you have a perspective that still holds to
an esoteric truth being communicated through the Gospels. Do you think that even though that may
be the case, there's an esoteric truth being perpetuated through the Gospels, that the Romans
could have created this whole thing out of whole clock? No, that's where guys like Joseph
Fatwell, I think, have gone wrong. The Romans appropriated themselves of the Gospels, of course.
People were writing Gospels and adoring Gospels their art. It's like Shakespeare. The Bible's
like Shakespeare. So it was preserved for many thousands of years. And the Romans just came
along and appropriated themselves of it and made it a corporate by-bull to bulls. And they are
papal bulls. An Old Testament, which is a bull, and a New Testament, which is a bull. That's why it's
a by-bull. And it has, bull means to speak, bull. It's speaking.
How much? I'm just wondering, adding to your question, Rhett, how much of Josephus
is actually metaphorical as well then? Because in the Bible, you have this metaphorical city,
which is symbolically called bottom in Egypt and even Jerusalem, whereas there's the Jerusalem
below and Galatians more in the Jerusalem above. So is the destruction of the Jerusalem
then a symbolical story as well? And then in Josephus even? No, no, it's literal, but...
Right. It's literal because there's many Jerusalem's. Every nation, every nation
is there in the Holy Land. It's not just Israel. It's just that the scriptures that they've preserved
were based on Gospels centred around that mystery school in Jerusalem because it was such a fine
mystery school. But the stories they have are the same in China, in India, in the Mayans. They're
all the same story. It's all exactly the same. All you have to do is do some comparative studies
and you'll see that they're all exactly, exactly the same story. It's a sun god, he's got 12 heroes,
he does all these heroic things and he's a savior and he gets crucified and Krishna's this,
powers is this. It's all the same story because it's based on the sun and I used to preserve this.
You know, I actually think that's something that we tend to overlook when we're talking about the
origins of the gospel and such. We tend to overlook that all these things are syncretistic
in nature and we're trying to attribute it all to the Romans making up this story to quell the
Jews and that's where the Gospels came from and maybe there is something there but we're forgetting
that this story is older than the Romans are. I mean it goes back thousands if not tens of thousands
of years. Yeah, how old is it? Yeah, people are hoodwinked. It's not old. There's no old to it.
It's timeless. These are timeless works. Go ahead and continue guys. I'll be right back.
Yeah, so there's no use considering the age of these texts because they always get appropriated
by the empire that turns up and then just grabs these sacred books and redacts them
and brings them in line with their corporate agenda. So the Bible is
what you said it was that it is a book of control and etc because it's been turned into that. It's
like a knife that's used for killing that was once used for buttering bread is now killing people
because it was turned into that by evil intentions. Yeah, so how much of Josephus is
metaphorical because I know he talks about how this heifer gave birth to a lamb and that seems to be
clear imagery of the transition of the age of Taurus or some sort of symbolism going on there
and then even he has some stuff that like Joseph Atwell is comparing to the gospels
and stuff like that. So did they take this sort of chronological history and then apply the
astrothiology to it and then make the gospels or did they look at the stars and then kind of make
up this history about their temple and then because like in the Lord's Prayer you have
on earth as it is in heaven so did it start like in the sky or did this story kind of start on earth
No, it starts in the sky and then they translate it and transpose it onto the earth with their
buildings and then they call it a holy land and it is. If you go to Glastonbury you'll see a zodiac
there. If you go to China you'll see zodiacs there. All lands are holy lands. Why is Holland called
holy land? Why is Israel means Isis-Ranel the holy land? What have we got? We've got
Venezuela the land of Venus which is the holy land. America that's Mercury to the
feathered Quetzalcoatl. America America America. China the land of Qi energy, holy energy. Japan
the land of the rising sun it's the holy land. The Netherlands the netherworld is the holy land.
At Norway the land of the north because the north pole the head is where you go up to be holy you
know Finland the land of finesse the finished people polished ready for ascension England the land
of angels Engeland the land of angels it's all the holy land Ari land the land of Aries the land of
God I can I can go on and do every every land it's all the holy land because God made it
yeah because I'm from half Swedish so they got the cross on their their flag as well so they got
yeah it's a golden cross but that was probably yeah well all right I'm back guys what did I miss
well that's a good example Sweden the land of Aden right well I didn't think about every way you
talk about flags now yeah no no we're talking about lands oh lands okay so we're sticking
with this sink sink I was asking about think artistic view yeah I was asking like where it started
in the it started in the stars or did it start on land because he Jesus is like maybe on earth as
it is in heaven so we he was just giving all these examples of the how it's the promised land
because they take the stellar anthologies because the stars the most obvious map we have to govern
our lives at least at that time oh wow so are you guys on the track of that's where the nations
came from was a mimic of the stars all of them all of them every nation is copying the stars
you know even even all the towns we have they're all they're all stellar you know
Amsterdam the the land of Amsterdam is the star the star of Om you know a Rotterdam the
the the land of Ra London and London the Lord the Sun Manchester Chester is the star
Rochester it's all stars you know it's all they're all named like this the Holy Land California
what about what about America we've got um well I did that before so California we've got Los Angeles
San Francisco San Juan Santa Clara this is all Sacramento the land of the sacraments
everywhere you go Oregon the land of gold name any word and I'll show you how it goes back to the
stars what do you think of metatron duck does duck go back to the stars
duck yes like which one you know a duck um it's not a land it's just an animal like
do the animals come from the stars yeah it does it's just a question yeah all woods come from the
stars okay sorry yeah I'm just saying if the nations come from the stars
go ahead go ahead yep so do words do you see star sorry Kevin go ahead
what do you what do you think of the word metatron I think it was a position in the
temple or it was an angel I think we've had it mentioned on our channel but somebody was asking
they said you believe in metatron but they don't know what you think it is
um do you have anything to say about that well well metatron is a it's a transcendental
archetypal like uh like a blueprint it's metatron is in the atomic nature of things it's it's a
structure it's like the uh the flower of life it's it's like the the cabalistic tree it's
it's um you know it's in a very it's a station it's not a physical thing and it's um Richard
Richard Carrier said that it's an office it's not a name it's not a pronoun of an angel it's not the
name of an angel it's an office that an angel can fill or a priest maybe something like that
yeah so so uh do you like yeah so it this this so you go ahead if you want no you got I wasn't
really gonna say anything significant but well I was just talking about the next question um like
we talked sometimes you you come across strong and you're like you're gonna experience everlasting
hell for ejaculating and and I'm just wondering what you mean by that and uh are you talking in
metaphors or are you trying to just get across the discipline that's required or something like that
to that yeah if I might add to that too Santos uh is hell a literal place to you or is it a state of
mind uh because in my understanding heaven and hell are within according to what Jesus himself
said the kingdom of god is within you he said to the Pharisees it's not something you can observe
it's not going to show up on your doorstep it's something that would is within you that you need
to realize is hell the same way in your understanding yeah it's a condition it's a condition first then
it's a place so it can it can become a place yes a dense place uh but as for the other um
this is what they used to teach in the seminaries you know the Zoroastrians and the original
uh religions in their seminaries that there is absolutely no forgiveness for wanton
deliberate ejaculation they they can be not what why lost this you see why that's where
is it is it because of the chrism is that is that the basis of everything is raising your
consciousness and if you don't do everything possible to raise your consciousness you're damned
that seems pretty harsh well well ultimately but it's not anyone condemning you we were designed
we have designed ourselves but we were designed to enable everlasting life through these bodies
and how you do it is you never ever deliberately ejaculate that's it if we taught young men
and they could do it which they can't because we're too feeble but this is why celibacy was a thing
but celibacy is a stagnant way of using that uh that fluid whereas the proper way of ascending
is through sex but pure sex with no ejaculation and after 12 years those materials that you would
have otherwise willy nearly squandered with every one second one second is how do you have
how do you have sex how do you have an orgasm without ejaculating i mean that's kind of like
the definition of an orgasm is ejaculation at least for men i mean how how do you you
mention something last time we talked about an implosion orgasm what exactly does that mean
and i know this is getting pretty graphic and i hope our listeners are adult enough to have
this conversation with us but i'm i've been i'm interested because i i have a mental image of
what you mean but i'd like to hear your thoughts on it yeah well they're dry orgasms yet there's no
need for the spillage of those vital fluids and the effect of doing it is pretty palatable i don't
know whether anyone else feels the same way as i used to when i had ejaculations it was
deheverstating your depression all kinds of sick entities would come and interfere in and and and
affect your vibration you would have to sleep you're so tired and depleted you'd feel some kind of a
an emptiness a depletion of your vital forces now when i have sex i can go on for hours and hours
and hours and hours and get stronger and stronger and stronger and stronger stronger every minute
it's vital for you transmuted and you transmuted and you and those materials are what is used for
the body to generate the 13th cranial nerve the one who squanders them will never have that power of
everlasting life and connection with the akashic record forever and ever and ever all right once
they do i just have to say that's what they have someone who sorry i didn't mean to interrupt you
go ahead santos i didn't mean to interrupt you go ahead no no no i finished okay so i finished
my my question my question was in in my experience and i've been married and i totally believe in
tantric sex which is a uniting of one to another and becoming one flesh and in a you know whatever
that means i i believe i have felt that and an ejaculation has not made me feel depressed
or or or like i'm lacking something it's made me feel and much to the contrary it's made me feel
fulfilled and as if but maybe that's because i was doing it right i don't know what you're trying to
say here because every time i've had an orgasm there's been ejaculation so how do you have an
orgasm without ejaculation and what is this you know sasquatch of a thing you're talking about
called an implosion orgasm and how does one attain that and why is that better than an external
ejaculation is that through meditation well when you learn how to do it you'll see why
sorry is that through meditation and breathing breathing exercises yeah
yep and through certain techniques like squeezing the muscles of your perineum that's that's it once
you lightly touch on those the energy goes up your spine rather than out drained out of your body
you utilized it it goes up you can feel it the orgasm and you can control it and you can have
an orgasm for as long as you like depending on how strong you are to keep it to keep it down as
it's coming up because it will always huh here's a syncretism i did kundalini yoga for the first
time this monday morning so i met this so this guy teaches it basically professionally
and tomorrow he's doing him he's training these people to do breathing exercises so i'm volunteering
as somebody to help somebody train somebody um of a three through your breath yeah you can do
everything because your breath is magic it's magnetism right and if you learn how to breathe
if i didn't learn how to breathe years to breathe years ago i'd be dead because i was really
oh it was my health was just deteriorating due to not breathing properly and i corrected a lot of
things my sleep um my mind i slowed my mind down i do a breathing technique where i just
expand my lungs at the bottom the diaphragm and then mid chest and then shoulders and i breathe
into every even into my fingers you visualize it and you breathe when you do this breath you are
actually pushing breath into the cells it's into the vital organs you're just forcing it more or
less you don't have to you don't have to force you just do it subtly but you'll learn and you'll
grow it gets stronger and stronger and then all of a sudden your diaphragm is like very responsive
it's you're feeling it you know like by touch it's very like um direct connection it's beautiful
singers need need to be connected with their diaphragm but or everyone should really because
then you speak better your speech is nicer it's more centered you're more
balanced in your thinking and more settled so that your thinking is strong and you're channeling
better thoughts uh breathing is you can maintain good health with good breathing this is kind of
a segue into my next question um because breathing is like um the wind right so that so the word spirit
in the bible means wind and so i'm wondering okay what do you think about the those connections
uh between the breathing exercises meditation and like in the bible where it says go into the room
go into your room or the king look to the kingdom within you seek first the kingdom
and and uh some of the earlier even yoga practices uh or even buddhism where you have identity
and you're trying to attain to this state of nothingness which is you might describe as the
wind or the air as that's the nothingness and that's your maybe your identity you're trying
to identify with nothingness uh or nirvana and you're trying to overcome a state of like desire
in stoicism by identifying with maybe nothingness so what do you that is like brilliant stuff
can you phrase that and do a question real quick so that our listeners can
like grasp what you're saying right there well what well what do you believe about our identity
like what is our identity are we just awareness and consciousness which needs to realize that about
ourselves as nothingness or are we our thoughts are we do we should we identify ourselves according
to our physical body uh and and uh or should we uh do like the buddhists do and and kind of attain
nirvana in a sense well when you meditate you don't identify with nothingness you identity you
you think of nothing other than the everything you go to the everything when you meditate because
you're stealing yourself from the vibratory world and you're going in and you're going into the world
of radiance different different why the radial wave is different to the vibratory way so you're
going into connecting to everything when you meditate and if you don't do that you'll never
restore your power if you don't meditate you'll never restore your power because you've got to
get it from the stillness it's not from making noise and thinking it's from going into your heart
and the kingdom of god is in there meaning that everything is in there everything not nothing
so when you meditate you go to the kingdom of god which is everything and these people who say you
know identify with nothingness you can't do that there's no no back back to the gospels now
back to the gospels now which is kind of the whole point of this interview
did the writers of the gospel understand this and are they trying to show us a way
to attain divinity in ourselves honestly the the imagined world of playdough where
it's philosophers and scientists that rule the world and we literally bring heaven to earth
is that something that you see coming in our near future
yeah for sure and we are virtually the ones who are facilitating it through things like
this interview we are the ones who are enabling it and receiving it we're all at different levels
there's no judgment you know some are still addicted to certain things and that's fine
because the flesh is like this but remember the flesh is death because this baptism of death our
bodies needs to be resurrected and so the resurrection happens when you resurrect your
fallen nature which means you know your i have a question on that for you i don't i'm sorry i seem
to be interrupting but i i'm just i'm interested is why and i'm super happy to have you on this
interview you have no idea i i've looked up to you for many years but when it comes to that
is there a way i i always you know raised a christian as a pastor's kid and the bible was
just ingrained in my head and i've had to try to find a way to integrate that into the knowledge
i've accumulated over the past 10 20 years i don't think that everything the bible says is
true but i do see pinpricks of like light like like someone poked a little tack through reality
and you can see pinpricks of light coming through and one of these things is where
you know paul says that all things are acceptable yes there you can do anything you want but not
all things are beneficial and is he talking about this evolution the raising of the kundalini
you know if we're going back to the hindu we're the raising of the kundalini up the spine to the
cerebral cortex and realizing an evolution that we haven't understood yet
yeah that's what it's talking about that was pretty big you say
yeah well but that's what the bible's all about when you say that uh i don't believe that what
some of the bible's saying is true well you can't say that because it's it's not a book about
literal literal things it's transcendence poems you you can't say a poem isn't is not true
because it's it's about higher truth so it's up to us to understand it if we don't understand it
and we take it literal then it's not true of course because it wasn't meant to be you know when you
talk about the birds and the bees you're speaking truth but you're not truly speaking about birds
and bees so little kids will get confused and they'll say huh no i'm sure mum and dad was speaking
about birds and bees not rabbits and chickens right it was definitely literally birds and
bees i remember those two particular animals because they both started with b no no child
no it's talking about something else but it's true you see you can't say the bible's not it's a book
about truth the highest truth for the ones with eyes to see and ears to hear you know it's a gospel
you know hasn't got truth in it's full of truths and i've been all right so back to back to the
question of where did this thing come from then i mean as far as i can tell it's a bunch of romans
with the help of Josephus who knew the Hebrew texts and and what needed to be fulfilled for
Israel to have a savior how is how is this all synchronized how does it all unite because
there has to be a political agenda going on in the gospels otherwise we wouldn't even have them
today but yet there's something going on that's deeper than that and and what what is that aspect
is it just innate in us to always even though we're trying to do something political like what
as far as i can tell the the gospels are political is there something innate in us that we always
reach for the higher vibration is that what you're seeing because that's kind of what i'm understanding
yeah well that's the message in the scriptures it's enabling the ascension process in us
it's it's encrypted it's encoded it's another language it's the priestly language the land of
the language of the jews that's why they're the chosen people because a high-minded individual who
is a jew should know the keys and how to understand this encoded message so that we can get back to
source it's it's a book that's saying if you want to get back to source you have to you know do this
process good works where you improve yourself where you liberate yourself from this entanglement
of your spirit in the fleshly world now guys i just realized i've only got a few minutes to go
because um yeah i was all right all right kevin kevin i've got one more one more question for
santos then and and i'll let you have the final say but santos all that said what is your understanding
of the logos and is the logos representative of god is there some higher power that already knows
everything that wants us to attain what he has and is that logos informed by what we learn and
go through in this life do we have a part to play in the final evolution of god
well the logos is from the monad to you the one the godhead all the way to you because it's the
word of god it's sound so no luminescence so in that sense we so so my question though my
question is do do we inform god is god living through us to learn about who he is is this all
a big video game is that what's this whole thing we call life well yeah more or less god the universal
source uh expands into the material world through electricity the vibration and makes forms physical
forms and has a dance yeah has a bit brama breathes out makes this beautiful world and then breathes
it back in again and and this is cyclical you know it's a breath and and that's the logos
and everything so my question is is there is is there a god is there someone up there
dictating everything or are we a part of god's evolution that's my question are we a part of
god's evolution or is there already someone up there pulling the levers and pushing the buttons
and we're just a part of his game in your opinion well always god i mean is there a god
just it's for me it's not a question i don't hear it it it can't exist because all is god
this is god but this is god in malcooth in the physical world then there's the transcendental
world and and there's what is malcooth the world the earth the lowest part of the cabalistic tree
the earth the ether is above the keitha god but it's all god it's all expanded of god it's like
um there's a drop of water ask whether the ocean exists and yet it's part of the ocean
it's like hey man i'm a drop of water right does the ocean really exist you know it's all is god
and so we are godlets my nose is part of god's material world that butterfly is is part of god's
thinking process it's all uh interconnected and so we are different to god and we are god
at the same time it's a dichotomy it's a paradox it's it's a most blessed way to exist to have
your own individuality and activity all right and to be god in the world which we are all right let
me rephrase that yeah but do you believe that god has kind of siphoned himself into all these
different parts which we call individuality and okay that's cool see i believe that too
okay thank you santos i want to ask you how many books have you read
uh i don't know but i've read enough to get what i've got you know uh right because the other half
is intuition and if you don't have the intuition and past life understandings and growth when you
come into this life and you incarnate you don't bring a lot of that with you you know you've
got to have a strong soul and bring it with you your intuition because you need that as well
but you must read the scriptures that's why we wrote them because they are the other half
this half that half and when you know how to use them both you know some people are too airy fairy
conceptual and um uh you know all about intuition and their way of seeing it and it's like it's
i see it like this and that's fine yeah that's good but how does the whole how is it really in the
world you know like if i if i have a little an orange let's say i have an orange and i and there's
a full moon and i put the orange in front of my eye and i say to a little boy you know what this
orange is bigger than that moon and that and it's true because it's relatively true but it's not
universally true well absolutely true subjective so that's why yeah a lot of it you got to get it
from both so you know you get the books read the books um would you be willing to do a debate with
someone that might differ on your views i don't like doing debates but if he's a cool guy and he's
humble and um he's not going to be arrogant uh for sure cheers thanks guys have a good night
