Making history again here at MythVision Podcast, I got Dr. Dennis R. McDonald
and Dr. Richard C. Miller, and we're going into one evidence that Mimesis is taking place
in the Gospel of Mark, or just saying the New Testament. Open your eyes and stay tuned. We're
making history. Thank you, Derek, and thank you, Richard. This is going to be fun. I have only one
objective for our discussion today, and that is to give textbook example of Mimesis in the New
Testament that qualifies for all of the criteria for Mimesis criticism, and I intended to be the
camel's nose under the tent, because once you grant that this kind of thing is happening in
the New Testament, the other examples become more credible, even though I think this one is quite
incredible and amazing, and I really value your responses to this work. The reason I take this
example is that Mimesis is in art as well as the science, and as with art, there's a great deal of
subjectivity that's involved. Every week, I get one proposal through the internet of somebody who
seen a parallel between the New Testament and Greek poetry, and almost always it's undisciplined.
It's, I credit with imagination, but not with reliability, and it's because there are no criteria
discipline, the judgment. So I'm going to start by having us read the criteria for Mimesis criticism,
which is simply an attempt to make the art of literary imitation, spotting it and interpreting
it more reasonable and more defendable, and this one I think is perfectly defendable, and I don't
know how people are going to squirm out of this. New Testament authors are imitating Greek poetry,
and they're doing so not because they're plagiarizing, but because they're involved in cultural
engagement, and they're trying to show that their social identity can be carved out against the
Greek identity in a sympathetic manner. So here are the criteria. The first one is accessibility.
Accessibility assesses the likelihood that the author of the later text had access to the proposed
model. Two, analogy determines if other authors target the same mimetic model.
Three, density of similarities. The more parallels one can posit between two texts,
the stronger the case that they issue from a strategic connection. Four, order of similarities
examines the relative sequencing of the parallels. If they appear in the same order, the case
strengthens for memesis. Five, a distinctive trait is anything unusual in the targeted model
and the proposed borrower that flags a literary relationship. Six, interpretability asks what
might be gained by viewing one text as a debtor to another. And finally, parallels satisfy the
criterion of ancient recognition when one can show that readers within the culture
recognized the imitation. Now my only goal in this podcast is to apply these criteria to one
narrative that appears in all three synoptic gospels, Matthew, Mark, and Luke. It's the exorcism of the
garrison demoniac as an imitation of Homer's stories of polyphemus and seercy. So, accessibility,
was the Odyssey available to the synoptic evangelists? Listen to the words of a Greek elite,
a contemporary of Mark that Richard is going to read, Richard Homeric epics.
Yeah, Homer's epics are our baby clothes and we nourish our minds by drafts of its milk.
He stands at our side as we each grow up and share our youth as we gradually come to manhood
when we are mature, his presence within us is at its prime, and even in old age we never weary of
him. When we stop, we thirst to begin him again. In a word, the only end of Homer for human beings
is the end of life. Now, obviously, that's hyperbolic, but it gives expression to what this
author thinks the importance of Homer is in Greek identity. According to Diocrystis, yet another
mark in contemporary, quote, Homer is the first, middle, and last of Greek culture.
If a Greek reader in the early Roman Empire owned a book, it likely was one or more scrolls
of Homer's 24. Now, do you have anything to add to that of the importance of the accessibility
of the Homeric epics in the Roman Empire? Well, yeah, I think we could also, even by degree,
talk about its canonicity, how sacred these texts were in the cultural mind of the time,
and how saturated the culture was with this and permeated. I think, if anything, we have to,
I think, assume that most any convert to the religion in the Mediterranean world would have
had some degree of familiarity with these stories. One statistic I'd love to draw out
is in fragments of papyri that we have from Egypt, from 200 BCE to 200 CE, we have 600 fragments of
Homer. We have five of the Septuagint. Now, if people are reading something, they're not
reading the Septuagint, they're more likely educated with Homer, and Homer was the core
of ancient education. One of the first lines that students learned to write was,
Homer was not a man but a god. So, I think we're okay with accessibility. Well, there's another
side to this. The accessibility of modern interpreters, I think, is more the problem here.
It's not that ancient people, any given convert would probably know more about the epics than any
given New Testament scholar today. No, absolutely. That's a very good point. Hegel once said,
Homer was the oxygen Greeks breathed, but it's not the oxygen the biblical scholars breathe.
And so, it's foreign. The second criterion is analogy. Did other authors target Homer's stories
of Polyphemus and Circe? Virgil's Polyphemus and Circe in the Aeneid is a good example. Virgil
wanted to make Aeneas more compassionate than Odysseus. And to do so, he has his own story,
Aeneas going to Polyphemus' island, and Odysseus, or Ulysses, for Virgil, abandoned one of his
own men on the island to certain doom. Aeneas goes to the island, sees the monster, and rescues
this Greek, his enemy, and takes him aboard ship to show that Aeneas is more compassionate than
his Ulysses. And he also has a passage about Circe, but Aeneas is wise enough to avoid her island,
even though he can hear the men howling and squealing like pigs. So, yes, Virgil, the Odyssey
here, and notice the synthesis. That is, there's a comparison that makes Aeneas more compassionate
than Ulysses, and that's why Virgil is writing this. But Lucian, writing the second half of the
second century, and who is a satirist, wrote a beautiful satire called True History, and you're
familiar with this famous work, and writes the introduction. He acknowledges how many people
have imitated the Homeric stories. And if you don't mind, please read the, and by the way,
Lucian knows the Gospels. He knows some of them, so he may in fact have the Gospels in mind in
this paragraph, although he doesn't say so. But if you'd read the paragraph, everything in my story.
Yes, everything in my story is a more or less comical parody of one or another of the poets,
historians and philosophers of old, who have written much that smacks of miracles and fables.
Their guide and instructor in this sort of buffoonery is Homer's Odysseus, who tells
Alsinus and his court about winds in bondage. One eyed men, cannibals and savages, also about
transformations of his comrades with drugs. But my lying is far more honest than theirs,
and though I tell the truth in nothing else, I shall at least be truthful in saying that I am lying.
Now notice the winds of bondage is the story of Eolus, who gives Odysseus a bag of winds,
and that gets imitated in the stilling of the storm story. Who does he have in mind with one eyed men?
Cyclopes, cannibals and savages. And who does he have in mind when he talks about transformations
of comrades with drugs? Right. Seercy. And you have parallels to these things in the Gospel of Mark.
So don't tell me there are no analogies to this story. One of my favorites is in a Christian
apocryphal text, The Acts of Andrew, and we can talk about that later, but it clearly is an imitation
of the Seercy story, including the giving of drugs, turning prisoners into swine, and Andrew plays
the role of Odysseus and frees his men. Do you have any comments about analogy? Yeah, I just think
this quote is wonderful. I'm a big fan of Lucian, and so it's fun to even read him. Even in this
meeting now, this is a great quote, and I want to take this away. But I would just say that even
with my own methodologies, the work that's done, for instance, it may not even be textual, more
cultural mimesis in this sense, but the idea that the divine birth myth with Alexander and
with Matthew's divine birth myth, what's that mean in terms of transvaluing? What kind of king is
this vis-a-vis Alexander the Great? What's being said there? And so you've got this connection.
It's invoking these powerful images that were part of the psyche of the ancient mind in order to
structure, immediately invoke a vivid sort of set of images and symbols that would then convey
this artistic representation with, you know, expedite that in some ways by drawing on already
formed significant notions in the mind. I think that's helpful. I'll tell you why. Even though you
may not formalize it that way, you have your own commitments to accessibility and analogy.
That is, was the Alexander myth known? Was it available to Matthew, let's say?
Right. And of course it was. And then you also have the issue of analogy. Are other people
evoking the memory of Alexander the Great in order to talk about their leaders? And there's no doubt
about that one either. And so then the question is, how many similarities can you line up between,
let's say, Matthew's infancy narrative and the Alexander tradition? And so the methodologies,
to that extent, are coherent with each other. That's right. That's right. Even a second one
that we won't unpack here, but that touches even closer to my own work, is with Romulus. And you've
got, you know, Jesus has more eyewitnesses. He has more road encounters. He has, you know,
he's shining even more than Romulus. And so there's this transvaluation. It's almost the
competitive aspects of that as well. And we're going to get to that, the issue of interpretability.
But there again, with Romulus, was the Romulus legend available? Where other people appealing
to the Romulus image in order to support the glorification of emperors, duh. So you've got
this analogy going. And the use of it is sometimes sympathetic to say that the emperors are like
Romulus. In some cases, they're agonistic to show that, in fact, in this case, Jesus is
superior to Romulus. You could even shift it from accessibility to the idea that they're drawing,
they're targeting cultural capital. That's right. Yeah. That's right. And I think that's what's going
on with Mimesis too. But the cultural capital is expressed in literature, not simply the general
culture. That's right. So I don't mean to, but I think the patterns are similar. So we have three
more criteria to analyze related to the polyphemous story. Density of similarities. The more parallels
one can posit between two texts, the stronger the case at the issue from a strategic connection.
Order of similarities examines the relative sequencing of the parallels.
If they appear in the same order, the case strengthens from Mimesis. A distinctive trait is
anything unusual in the targeted model and the proposed borrower that flags a literary relationship.
I'm going to ask us to look at my most recent book, which is, must the synoptics remain a problem?
This is on page 76 of the book. And we have parallel columns with the odyssey on the left-hand
column and mark, mark story of the garrison mnemonic on the right. And I'll read the odyssey column,
and you can read the mark in one. Now, we both need to remind ourselves that the reason we're
doing this is we're interested in the density of parallels, the sequence of parallels,
and the unusual nature of the parallels as a part of this discipline to understand Mimesis.
Odysseus and his crew sailed to the island of the Cyclopes and of Circe. Jesus and his disciples
sailed to the region of the garrisons. On the mountains of the Cyclopes, innumerable goats
grazed as Circe turned soldiers into swine. On the mountain, a large herd of swine grazed.
Odysseus and his crew disembarked. Jesus and his disciples disembarked.
They encountered a savage lawless giant who lived in a cave. They encountered a savage
lawless demoniac who lived among the caves. Polyphemus usually was depicted nude in art.
The demoniac was nude. Circe recognized Odysseus and asked him not to harm her.
Odysseus said, swear me an oath not to plan another plot to hurt me. And the giant, Polyphemus,
asked Odysseus if Odysseus intended to harm him. The demoniac recognized Jesus and asked him not
to harm him. I adjure you, by God, do not torment me. The giant asked Odysseus his name. Jesus
asked the demoniac his name. Odysseus answered, nobody is my name. The demoniac answered,
Legion is my name. And notice, Richard, the similarity in the Greek.
Odysseus subdued the giant with violence and trickery. Circe's magic turned Odysseus's
soldiers into swine. Jesus subdued about 2,000 demons with divine power and sent them into the
swine and they drove the swine into the lake. Polyphemus the shepherd called out to his neighbors.
Swine herds called on their neighbors. The cyclopes came to the site asking about Polyphemus's
stolen sheep. The garrisons came to the site to find out about their swine. Odysseus and
crew embarked. Jesus and his disciples embarked. Odysseus told the giant to proclaim that he had
blinded him. Jesus told the healed demoniac to proclaim what God had done for him. The giant
asked Odysseus now aboard ship to come back. The demoniac asked Jesus now aboard the ship
if he would be with him. Odysseus refused the request. Jesus refused the request. Odysseus
and his crew sailed away. Jesus and his disciples sailed away. Odysseus awoke during a tempest
in the episode immediately following the story of the cyclopes. Jesus awoke during a tempest
and calmed the wind and the sea just before the exercising the demoniac. Don't close the page quite
yet because we're going to look at page 77 in a minute. What do you think? Do you think these
parallels are dense, sequential and unusual? I would say so. It's difficult. How do you get
out of this is what was going on in my mind. It's just too much. Even if you just had maybe
two or three of these, I think that would be enough to tip off a reader that had any familiarity with
the two stories. Do you know of any commentary on Mark that talks about the Odysseus in this case?
No, it's completely absent from New Testament studies. How could that be? That has got to be
ignorance about the Hellenistic world and ancient rhetoric. How could it be absent
from any discussion of this story prior to what memesis criticism is trying to do?
I think there's a number of things. We've talked about this at length. I don't think there's a
whole lot of people that have even read the Odyssey front to back. In New Testament studies,
you could probably count them on one hand. I wouldn't be surprised. The other, it's an upsetting
idea, I think, in some ways. How do people enter this field? They don't enter it to deconstruct
and define all of the literary parallels that might. This is a scary project in some ways,
I think. What's the conclusion then if you start saying that these stories are crafted after
another work that we know is fictive in its character? What does that mean then for the whole
theological project that's going on in Western civilization? I think that's a huge issue. I
agree with you. But my answer to it is you don't understand what the story is done unless you
see it as an alternative. That goes to the next point in memesis criticism, interpretability.
Virgil wants to rewrite the story in order to show Anise is more compassionate than Odysseus
Ulysses. Mark is trying to do this to show that Jesus is more compassionate than Odysseus too.
Instead of blinding him and stealing his sheep, he turns the garrison demoniac into
sane man and clothed. So the story is about this transformation of characters. So that's the
interpretability of the story. By the way, it's fascinating to me that Matthew retells the story
and removes almost all of the telltale traits that are unusual in its stories. It's not one
demoniac, but two. Jesus does not sail to the place or from it. There's no disembarking or
reembarking. There's no exchange of names. There's no asking about the names, which is an unusual
trait. There's no request of the demoniac to come with Jesus, who's already on board ship.
So in my view, what Matthew has tried to do intentionally or not is to remove the most
telling elements of the story that make it a myth, a myth, to make it into a bios. So that
you hear he have a shift of a myth to history. And I think the genre commitment of Matthew,
that's informed biblical scholarship, that the gospels are biographies of some kind, myths of
origin. Yeah, I think that it may go back to some of the research that Robin Faith Walsh has done,
some of her excellent work on the sophistication, the degrees of sophistication of some of these
authors. It could be oftentimes we're seeing Marcus in Coe and as kind of the first seed or
inception of the gospel tradition. I think it's lost on a lot of people just how creative that work
was because it wasn't using all of these prior gospel texts in order to craft itself in so many
ways. But this also suggests that Mark had a degree of literary sophistication that may have been lost
on Matthew and to some extent, or maybe Matthew didn't feel as skilled in that space and so decided
to conduct a different kind of project with that material. The mark in evangelist was brilliant
and creative. I want to go back to the very first line in the gospel of Mark. The first word
in the gospel of Mark is the word archi and it's the origin or beginning of the good news of Jesus
Christ. Now you could say that archi means it's the beginning of the book. I don't think it is. I
think it's a it's declarate declaring what the genre is. I'm writing an archi. I'm writing an
origin book and it's the origin of this good news that we have of Jesus Christ, the Messiah.
So I think the genre of Mark can be understood as a muthus of archi. It's a myth of origins and the
archi refers not to the beginning of the gospel, not to the beginning of Jesus's life. It is a
declaration that the book as a whole is an archi. That's in fact, I think what the original title
of the book was. It wasn't attributed to Mark. It is an archi of this good news and I think that
really changes the way we understand Mark. He's very sophisticated. I think that's wonderfully
insightful. It's interesting how much you and I agree. I studied under you and so forth, but
independently I've drawn much the same conclusion. I think that when you're dealing with an etiological
myth, kind of a charter myth, foundation myth for this cult, Mark sees that as his project. If you
add the last segment on that first verse, a son of a god, you're dealing with a demigod myth at
that point. I mean, right from the beginning, he tells you right up front. He shows you his cards
where this is going. And so yeah, I think it's a charter myth for the cult. It's almost whimsical
in the sense that the freedom, the literary compositional freedom that Mark seems to enjoy
throughout the text, and I think that's correct. I think that he's setting what would you call it
an eti, a foundation myth. Yes, okay. Used charter myth. I would also talk about founding myth.
Could be also etiological in that sense. Now, I want to ask you some questions and I know you
know the answer to. Would you say that Virgil's Aeneid is a founding myth for the early Roman
Empire? Absolutely. That's the whole point of it. That's the whole point of it. Right. Is he the only
one who's creating founding myth? Do you think Jews are doing so too? Right. Exactly. The notion
that Mark is doing so is everything in Virgil's Aeneid historical? No, certainly not. Certainly
not. And so we give him a pass on that, but we don't give Mark a pass on the miracles in his
founding myth. Right. I think we hold. It's funny because we, I think just in religious studies
generally, we give almost any other religion a pass. We almost expect any other ancient major
sage or founding figure to be decorated with myth and fable and folktales and so forth from
the beginning. For some reason, I think it has to do with the dogmatism and faith-motivated
influence that's exerted on this field. I have an expression that I don't know that you've heard
me give, but I have given it in class and so on. The embarrassment of commensality. If somebody is,
does your thing, it's an embarrassment that they do your thing because then you're not special.
So there's an embarrassment to commensality and you face that all the time in people who
are questioning your work because they don't want the translation fable to be commensurable,
what we find in the New Testament. It may even be reduced down to an arrogance in western civilization
that we see our myths as somehow superior to those of other cultures and civilizations.
And part of it, I think, is related to social identity theory because people who hold to these
stories understand that to be what is distinctive about their social identity,
what I would call an axiological collective. Don't worry about that. That's a sociological
lingo, but it means that they're held together by ideologies. And if other people share your
ideologies, it diminishes the social identity that you have because no longer have your
boundary that's different, let's say, from Judaism or Islam or whatever.
Right. Right. The uniqueness of claims. That's it. That's right. Yeah. I don't want to leave
the story of the garrison pneumonia quite yet. The last criterion that we have,
mimesis criticism, is ancient recognition. And if you look on the next page where we've been
looking, you'll see some poetry that's at the top of the page where you have the Homeric
Centonies. These are as early as the late fourth century. And when these poets retell the story
of the garrison pneumonia, they use lines in sequence from the story in Homer of the garrison
pneumonia. These poets saw the similarities. Let me read them. They're a little tricky to read,
but I'll let you read the one to the first batch. So this is how these Byzantine Christians
retold the story in poetry of the garrison pneumonia. When they, that is Jesus and his
disciples, arrived at the area located among the garrisons, here there was a headland where a cave
lay next to the sea that's almost identical to the Odyssey, with cascading laurel as though
encircling it. In it, swine and goats rested at night and round it a high tomb was built with
large stones set deep in the earth with tall pines and high foliage oaks. Here slept a monstrous man
whom a demon shepherded by himself far away. He did not engage with others but lived apart and
knew only cruel thoughts, for he had been made into a monstrosity and was not like a man who eats
bread, but like a wooded peak of high mountains that looms larger than the rest. And Richard,
you can see in the left-hand column that those lines, the same sequence, absolutely the same order,
with a few things changed like having swine. So later in the poem, the poet switched to Odyssey 10
in the episode with Searcy, so if you'd read those few lines. So he, Jesus, spoke and they,
the demons, cried out and called to him as you commanded into the crowd of swine. So here we
have ancient recognition of similarities in these stories by Christians in the fourth century or
potentially later. It's hard to date some of these chentos. And so all of the criteria,
nemesis criticism, get satisfied. The story of polyphemus is accessible. Other people are
imitating it. The parallels are dense, sequential, distinctive. They're interpretable. Jesus is cooler
than Odysseus. And ancient Christians saw these similarities and were not embarrassed by using
poetry from Homer to tell the Gospel story. Now, I don't know how you can wiggle out of that
constellation of considerations. And once you grant this, it opens the door to other possible
imitations. And again, you won't find this in the, in scholarship. And we, we, both of us get
blackballed of what we're doing. And I would be surprised if it could be otherwise.
Right. No, I think if you've taken together the argument is unassailable. I, I have yet to read
a compelling criticism of your core arguments from anyone. And there's been a number of attempts,
I think. Yeah, there have been. I think we could chalk that up to just, just how upsetting,
disrupting your work is in this regard. But when you get down to the actual evidence here,
I don't see how you wiggle out of it. I really just don't. It's, it's, it's that firm. And
especially when you start looking at just how important Homer was in the ancient mind, it's
for lack of trying almost that we're not making these kinds of investigations in the field.
Yeah, I think it's conscious avoidance. And I think there are reasons for the avoidance.
By the way, we both want to thank MythVision and Derek Lambert for bringing us together to talk
about this. Certainly. It's funny. Yesterday, I spoke with Derek and we said, this was a conclusion
that we drew that if we could take all of New Testament scholars, at least the halfway honest
ones, send them all to a summer camp to study Homer. Just, just what a fountain of result,
you know, great results would probably come out. Now, I want to say one more thing. And this is
more speculative, and you may not agree with it, but there are reasons to think that the
garrison demoniac story also was influenced by Q. And nobody has seen that. So in the book,
where we've been reading on the next page, the Mark and demoniac surely imitates Homer's
polyphemus and his Jesus imitated Circe. But here, the evangelist also redacted
logia from the logoi of Jesus. That is the Q document as I reconstructed. In fact, its
beelzebel controversy may have inspired Mark's garrison exorcism in the first place. They went
to the other side of the region of the garrisons. And when they disembarked from the boat, immediately
a man with a defiling spirit met them in the tombs. He made his dwellings in the tombs. So
if you'd read the right hand column. No one ever was able to bind him. For often, he was bound
in stalks and chains. He ripped from him the chains and smashed the stalks, and no one was strong
enough to tame him. But in the logoi of Jesus, we find this. How is anyone able to enter the house
of a strong man and loot his goods unless he first binds the strong man, and then he will
loot his house? It's the same Greek word that you have in Mark. For binding, the garrison
is a strong man who is possessed by the strong man. Go ahead and read the next piece for Mark,
and then the square that follows, and at night. For he had said to him defiling spirit come out
of the person. And in the logoi of Jesus, we find when the defiling spirit has come out of the person,
look at the similarities, Richard, in Greek. To Akathrothanpnevma,
exlthi apotu anthropu, is almost exactly what you find in Mark. Okay, so then you have the business
about the follows. So the next square, and the defiling spirit came out. And the defiling spirit
came out and went into the swine. And the herd rushed down the cliff into the sea, about 2000 of
them and drowned in the sea. Okay, and here's the parallel in the Q document. When the defiling spirit
has come out of the person, again, look, Richard, at the Greek. It's almost identical. It wanders
through waterless regions looking for a resting place and finds none. The reason you find none
is in places where there's no water, you don't have living bodies to inhabit. Then it says,
I'll return to my house from which I came. And on arrival, it finds it swept and tidied up. Then
it goes and brings with it seven other spirits more evil than itself. And moving in, they settle
there. And the last circumstances of that person become worse than the first. In the gyrus endomaniac,
it's thousands of demons return and give the trouble. And of course, the name legion means
cipher for the Roman legion that destroyed Jerusalem in an ironic way. And this is the
burden of this book on the synoptic problem. If you recognize what Mark has done with Homer,
it makes the parallels with Q even clearer. So because you can kind of scrub the Homeric stuff
out of Mark's narrative, and what do you find left? You find this stuff from Mark. Nobody has
suggested that either. And so that's why we need to have a rethink of Q. Because Mark is a major
witness to Q. Not only did Mark know Q, he's probably the most important witness we have to Q.
And so that is a heresy for people who, for the two-document hypothesis.
I think this also, I mean, just kind of zooming out a little bit and looking at
the larger ramifications of this. We see creativity myth-making in the earliest strata
of the gospel tradition. And I think that that also debunks a common myth that we have
sort of this historical core or something quasi-historical at the beginning, and then caked
onto an embellishment kind of like a fish story or something like this. But I've been saying for
quite a while now that I think this was a myth factory from the beginning. And so I think the
earliest strata that we have, I even went to the so-called creed in 1 Corinthians 15 about him
dying on behalf of sins and raising from the dead and having appearances, clearly myths. I mean,
these are not the kind of mundane kind of fact-telling that normal people would give.
That's right. It's not folklore. There's a word play that I have in Greek
that it doesn't translate into English very well. The Greek word for tradition is pravosis.
And the Greek word for a source of a document is a prototipos, a prototype. And so for these
stories, my pun is, there's no pravosis. There's only a prototipos. There's not a tradition.
There's a source, a source document that's against remythologized or imitated. I'm so glad we were
able to get into the cube piece because it's a story that I think is a mimesis of Homer and a
metophysis of Q that is a redaction of Q that uses these elements in the narrative.
I have enjoyed your work for quite a long time. I kind of liken it to a treasure chest.
Every time I go and read something in there, I always come away with treasure.
And even in this conversation I have as well. And I think it's important for us,
if we want to be honest in this field and intellectually honest, I think that's our moral
duty. I do too. And I also think that it's exciting. For those that are willing to see it,
those that are able to investigate these kinds of things with an honest pair of glasses on,
then I think what we find is a fascinating journey into the depths and origins of this religion
that to me is so much more exciting than what is traditionally done.
That is so important, Richard. This is fun. This is fun. And it captures your imagination.
It has to be disciplined imagination as we talked about from the beginning. But I feel sorry for
people who are in our field, who aren't given the opportunity to be imaginative in that way.
And to be creative. It's a real pity. And I'm grateful that Derek Lambert shares our enthusiasm
and our joy for this. And maybe this is a good way to stop the conversation. But what else would
you want to say, Richard? Yeah, I do think it's creative. But I also want to just drive home
that this is solid, inescapable argumentation that we're, yes, I mean, we're finding parallels
here in the Logoi of Jesus. And there is some measure of speculation that's inherent to that,
right? But at the same time, though, we're not seeing ghosts here. Especially with this example
that you've brought forward with the demoniac, I would challenge our viewers, the New Testament
folks that are out there, tell us where we're wrong. What have we done wrong here? How do you
get out of that? And if we're not wrong, then time for everybody to come aboard and start thinking
and reasoning through this depth of literature that is impactful at every level in beginnings of
this religion. And so beautiful. Yeah.
