Ladies and gentlemen, I did a live video yesterday with this book in mind.
Dr. Joshua Bowen, of course, did the atheist handbook, or the atheist handbook to the Old Testament.
Volume one, Dr. Joshua Bowen.
Make sure if you do get the book, leave an Amazon review, please.
Five-star rating, of course, if you like it, and tell us what you like about it.
I really, really ask you to do that.
Well, sometimes life throws curveballs.
Everybody, I know that Derek and I said that we were going to be doing all kinds of videos,
and that they were going to go up on his Patreon.
And after the stream, if you haven't seen that, we throw down and do a freestyle rap, so you should probably go check that out.
Well, I'm, I can't hold it, and I like evolution.
No, that's not right.
I hate it, because it's the stupidest thing that's ever come about in this world.
You know, I hate it. That whale penis is almost 14 feet.
Okay.
This is, yeah!
But we were sitting in my living room talking, talking about, man, who the hell knows what.
And Megan came downstairs and said with this sort of smile on her face that was letting me know that maybe it was more behind it.
I used the words, don't panic.
Yes, she used the words, don't panic.
And she said, I've been having contractions since like 8 or 830.
Anyway, with Derek and Ryan asleep in the next room at about, I don't know, 1230.
She woke up and she said, it's time to go to the hospital.
So anyhow, Megan gave birth to our twins at 1.56 and 1.59 this morning.
But of course that meant that I've been here in the hospital.
And so Derek and Ryan had to head back home.
They're going to be going up the twins.
Looks like they're going to be going into the NICU for a little bit up in DC.
But anyways, that just meant that it would be difficult for us to get any recording done.
But don't worry, we will get it done and however that needs to happen.
So if you did happen to join Derek's Patreon for these videos, it's my fault.
It's not his.
But I promise we'll get some videos up for him.
Thank you all for joining and for supporting him because it's well worth it.
Anyway, talk to you guys soon.
