This is what it is, okay?
I said empty your mind, be formless, shapeless, like water.
Now you put water into a cup, it becomes the cup.
You put water into a bottle, it becomes the bottle.
You put it in a teapot, it becomes the teapot.
Now water can flow, or it can crash.
Be water, my friend.
Water.
Welcome to the Water Boys with Derek Lambert here and Dr. Luther G. Williams.
We have a special guest here tonight.
I'm really excited about this show.
This is really, really interesting.
I'm going to let you introduce him, but I will say he is an instructor in Kung Fu, in the arts of martial arts, which is interesting.
Because I actually have a personal background in karate and taekwondo growing up.
I did jiu-jitsu in high school.
My father's a hand-to-hand combat trainer in the Green Beret and Special Forces, so we're familiar with that background, which is beautiful.
And Luther, if you will take this and run with this, because this is going to be an interesting show.
Well, I have to run with it, Derek, because I feel cheated.
You know, I spent about 10 years in the Atlanta area going to school, and it was a place of great light pollution.
And I never could see the stars clearly until some professor would invite me to dinner.
And usually they'd live in the outlying areas, and then the stars came alive, because there was no light pollution around, you know?
And there's this song I used to listen to called The Night the Lights Went Out in Georgia.
And when I saw the Georgia sky, I knew at night what they were talking about.
Well, our guest tonight is going to walk us through the night sky, and I'm so excited about it.
His name is David Warner Matheson, the author of The Undying Stars.
He's got a multi-volume series called Star Myths of the World and How to Interpret Them.
Actually, he's the author of eight books. Let's look at just a few of them.
Astrophiology for Life, The Matheson Corollary, and his latest book is Ancient Myths, Ancient Wisdom.
His YouTube channel is also called The Matheson Corollary.
You can follow him on Facebook at The Matheson Corollary or The Undying Stars.
He's got two Facebook sites.
His Twitter account is DavidWMatheson, and his website is StarMythWorld.com.
Just run all that together, StarMythWorld.com.
And there you'll find videos, book samples, podcasts, and a voluminous blog.
So we are delighted to have with us David Warner Matheson.
David, welcome to the podcast.
Thank you very much, Luther. It's great to be here.
I'm looking forward to talking with you and Derek.
So, yeah, I appreciate that intro and can you see me okay?
I'm trying to make sure that I'm on the screen.
I'm trying to lean over. Are we all three on the screen together?
Good.
I see Derek and you, David, but it doesn't matter too much right now.
So, hey, I'm just happy that long as you're on the screen, I'm happy, man.
I mean, your website is out of sight.
Really, really great.
One of the things that keeps popping up, you know, you go there.
The images are fantastic from all around the world, and Derek can attest to that.
And it tells you repeatedly that virtually, and this is a quote really from the website,
it says virtually all of the world's myths, scriptures, and sacred traditions
can be shown to be based upon a common worldwide system of celestial metaphors.
So we're going to get right into that.
But the first question I'd like to ask you, David, is how did you get into this area of study?
We know that you grew up loving myths and loving the stars,
but what really was your entrance into this field?
It is a long story that goes all the way back to when I was a child,
and my dad used to take me out to see the stars, and I used to love the myths,
like you mentioned, and had an opportunity to actually teach the Odyssey at the college level.
But this actually took place after that.
Can you hear me okay? I'm getting a little feedback or something, actually.
Can you hear me okay?
A little bit of static coming from you, bro.
Yeah, I'm not sure what started that.
Okay.
Let's see.
I may have to switch to a better set of headphones.
I don't think that would be the cause of it.
You could try it if you'd like to just test it real quick. That'd be fun.
Okay.
Yeah, I'm not sure if it's on my end or if it's the Skype.
Let me just make sure all my cords are plugged in.
Sorry to ruin the flow, Luther.
You had a great run-in, but we've got a lot of static coming in here.
A lot, yeah.
Oh, hey, Dave, I'm sorry.
I can't hear much of the static, but we'll get it back.
Do me a favor, Luther, when you started speaking, it silenced.
Do me a favor.
If it comes back on, test it out by hitting mute on yours, Luther,
just to see if it might be coming from your source.
I don't know, but we'll test it.
Yeah, you're right.
You're right.
Okay.
When I'm not speaking, I'm muting.
You got it.
All right.
So, yeah, but really it was much later that I really started to see the connection
between the myths and the stars.
And I've talked in other interviews as well about a book called Hamlet's Mill,
which was published in 1969.
And I learned about it from reading a book by Graham Hancock.
Graham Hancock and other authors reference Hamlet's Mill a lot,
talking about how important procession is and some of the research that they're doing.
And Hamlet's Mill really talks about this vast ancient system.
And we'll get into that a little bit.
I've got a quotation.
I put together a little presentation to illustrate some of the points that I talk about.
But they talk about there's this vast ancient system that included myth,
but it also included things like number and music and time.
And it all seems to fit together.
But what we have is a ruin of this system.
But they were talking about how all the myths, Greek myths, myths in the Americas,
myths from the Maya, from the Pacific were reflecting pieces of this system.
But it was like they use the metaphor of a missed painting.
Chinese missed painting, you know, that technique where they just kind of show a little piece here
and then a little bit there.
And the rest is, you know, your imagination fills in that it's all covered with myth.
Well, that's kind of what they said we have of this ancient system.
We can see a piece here and there.
But the connection between it all is missing.
And that really fascinated me because, as I mentioned,
I was really interested in the stars growing up and in the myths.
But the thing that troubled me was they also talked about the Bible being based on this same system.
And I was taking the Bible literally at that time.
I was really taking the Bible seriously from a literal perspective.
I was, like, when I went to grad school, I did not do any studying on Sunday.
I would only read the Bible or commentaries on the Bible on Sunday.
And so when they suggested, you know, that the Bible actually connects in with all these myths as well,
I would kind of skip over that part in my mind and say,
well, you know, obviously they don't understand that the Bible is, you know, in a different category.
But some of the things that they talked about, like Derek, you've mentioned,
seeing some of the things that I talked about with Samson and the jawbone,
that was the one that really started to get my interest.
And they talked about how there's a lot of things in the Samson story that are difficult to take literally.
For one thing, he ties together the tales of two foxes,
like 300 pairs of foxes and puts a fire brand or a torch in between each tail
and sets them loose in the fields, you know, the crops of his enemies.
And the author said, you know, the tying together 300 foxes in one night is probably pretty different.
That's a pretty long night's worth.
And they actually said something like the whole tale of Samson stands out as a grand tissue of absurdities,
is what they call it.
And I was saying, you know, that's pretty, you know, I have to reconcile this.
But the problem is, the more I look, the more of the system I started to see,
and they started talking about some passages in Revelation,
and I could clearly see how, because I'm very familiar with the stars,
I could see how what they were talking about actually made sense in the text.
So we'll get into some of that.
But what I would say is I was not out looking for this.
I was not out looking to quote unquote discredit the Bible.
In fact, I am not trying to discredit the Bible at all.
I think this is the language that the Bible is speaking is actually a metaphorical celestial language.
In fact, I don't think that I've found so much evidence in the years since then that I have absolutely no doubt about it.
There are just hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of examples,
and there are even passages that you can only really understand properly, I would say, celestially.
They don't make sense geographically or terrestrially.
So long answer to your question of how I got into this.
I was not trying to get into this, but I always loved the myths and the stars.
And then the idea that all the world's myths could be tied together and seem to be part of some vast worldwide system was very fascinating to me.
I was surprised to find that the Bible is also part of that system.
And that's something that is, I think, a really positive thing.
It shows that we're really all connected instead of divided.
And so many times these kinds of sacred traditions have been used to divide us.
Instead, they're actually, I think, all pointing to the same truth that we're all connected.
Wow! Just to pause you right there, because this is beautiful.
You know, for a time, and I'm in similar kind of boat, I'm not trying to give my testimony at all,
but it's interesting how I started looking at this, I saw so much evidence for this thing to be allegorical,
or to have a, it couldn't make sense.
And so I was left at this point between two options in my head.
And it was, the Bible's not true, and it's a bunch of fiction, and it's like, when I say fiction,
I mean, like, it's made up, and it's a lie, as a lot of these scholars want to suggest.
And me and Luther firsthand are aware of many of these scholars, even having them on the program,
you know, that would show that, hey, this is fictional, this is a made up myth,
that they fabricated the story, et cetera, et cetera.
Well, the same thing could be said in the opposite spectrum.
Hey, look, you have to believe these things literal.
So what you're suggesting is that, and this is where I have to say this is my own right now, on my journey,
is that the Bible is actually true.
It's just, it's a different kind of genre than you would expect.
And it's talking about something completely different than what you would think.
Am I wrong in saying that?
No, that's a really insightful thing that you just said, Derek.
So I would totally agree that there are generally two ways that we can miss this.
Now, if you're conspiratorial, you could say there are two ways that people want to steer you away from the kung fu.
So you mentioned kung fu.
So you're in fateful North Carolina, right, Derek?
So that's where I actually started learning kung fu when I was 22 years old.
Wow.
In fateful.
So my sequel is so there you can go visit him and take lessons if you want.
But it's like the, I apologize to people who have watched lots of interviews if I use some of the same metaphors,
but to me it is like the karate kid in the Mr. Miyagi, where he is teaching Daniel Son all these,
and it's a very powerful scene that we all remember.
But first he makes him wash the car, then he makes him paint the fence,
and then he explains to them, actually Daniel Son, this is something very powerful that you need.
You have all these problems in your life.
And now, you know, I wasn't just making you wash the car because I needed my cars washed or waxed.
Wax on, wax off.
It's because you need this.
But there, you could imagine if you were the only people in town who knew the kung fu, if we're being conspiratorial.
I don't know.
I don't know how this knowledge got lost.
But if you were the only people who knew kung fu, you might want to tell people, you know, that waxing the car,
it's not really good for fighting.
It's just waxing the car.
So there are two ways you can miss the very powerful kung fu that is contained in the myth.
It's got something very powerful for our lives that we need.
Wow.
But you can, I believe, miss it by taking it too literally.
I agree.
Yeah, and we've got the, we've got like, I don't know where that feedback's coming from,
but I wonder if it might be one of our microphones so maybe we can play around with it a little bit.
But I think you can miss it by taking it too literally.
And I think for centuries, people took it literally and it was used to put in all kinds of different oppressive systems.
Well, you have to obey this Duke, because if you don't, you know, he's been placed there by God.
So therefore, all your, all the excess of your hard work, except for basically what you need to basically get by on a very austere, minimal lifestyle needs to go to him because it's just God's will.
So that system was in place for centuries.
And when that started to unravel, in large part, I would say because of the invention of the printing press, now people can actually study the books themselves.
And the first people who translated the Bible into English were burned at the stake and things like that because putting the words in front of people is very dangerous.
If it's actually based on the stars, somebody might figure that out.
Once they start reading it, it actually is pretty obvious.
Well, it's not obvious, but if you study it long enough and then someone suggests to you that it's based on the stars, that's what happened to me.
I agree.
You start to see how it is.
So then, okay, well, that's not working anymore, but we don't want people to find out Mr. Miyagi's kung fu.
So let's have them take it.
As you said, you can miss the message another way and say, oh, there's just a bunch of primitive stories that, you know, they didn't understand thunder and lightning.
So they had to come up with something.
It's not primitive stories.
It is profound truths that are powerful and necessary and helpful, but you can miss it in a couple of different ways.
And if you don't miss it one way, we can get you to miss it another way.
I'm not saying that necessarily there's a conspiracy, but there are two ways of missing the message.
And I believe that the original intention, if you're trying to listen to a message that someone's giving to you, it's best to listen in the language.
That they're actually speaking.
And I believe they're speaking an esoteric, metaphorical, celestial language, not a literal language.
David, will you rescue for us this word myth, which is so central to what you're doing?
Because in the minds of many of the listeners and in my mind for a long time, a myth meant a lie.
It meant something not worth our time and thought, something born of ignorance.
But really, life is a myth, isn't it?
I mean, life is full of comedy and drama and horror film and action adventure film, part documentary, part cartoon.
So what is it about a myth that is worth paying attention to and that makes it as great or maybe even greater than history?
Yeah, that is a that's a I'm glad you brought up that point, Luther.
So the word myth is often used just like you said, well, oh, that's there's this common myth.
And OK, so we use it that way.
But obviously, what I'm talking about are these ancient traditions, this these first instructions.
I believe Peter Kingsley, I'll refer to him towards the end, is an author that actually a reader reached out to me and said, hey, have you read Peter Kingsley?
And he says, you know, every culture received these original instructions all around the world, and they are very ancient.
And that's what I'm talking about.
But they're in the form of stories.
They're in the form of myth or sacred stories.
Sometimes they're in scripture, meaning they're actually written down in ancient India.
Obviously, the Bible is what we call scriptures because they're written.
A lot of times they're passed down orally.
But we wouldn't say, you know, let's imagine let's relate to the movie The Matrix, right?
The Matrix is a cult classic.
Everybody knows The Matrix, and there's Neo and he has to wake up and Morpheus has to give him the choice of the red pill or the blue pill.
And when you walk out of the movie, nobody turns to each other and says, that is such a lie.
I don't think Neo even lived in that city.
I mean, we would say that your friend would say, dude, what's the matter with you?
That was a fantastic movie.
That movie was great.
I learned so much from that movie.
There was so much truth in that movie.
He said, yeah, but I don't think it's real.
I don't think they really have those ships that go underwater in the sewer system or whatever.
And your friend goes, it's just a lie.
There's so much truth in it, right?
So a myth is actually in Luther, as you said, at the end of your intro to this question, it's actually more precious as this is a quotation from Alvin Boyd Kuhn, who I reference a lot.
He lived from, I believe, 1880 to 1963.
And he said, these stories are a thousand times more precious as myth than as literal history.
And he says somewhere else, there's a reason.
Because if you're taking it literally, you say, well, I know, in order to wake up, I guess I need to go to that city where Neo lived and I need to cut my hair like Neo in the matrix.
And your friend would say, and you go, what city was that?
Maybe we can watch it a thousand times and figure out from the buildings which city Neo lived in so we can go there and wake up like Neo also.
And your friend would say, dude, that's not the point.
So if you if you understand it as a myth or a metaphor, Alvin Boyd Kuhn said this, he said, don't fall too much in love with the story itself.
If you take the story so literally, you will think it's about someone else instead of being about you.
But if you understand that this is actually about each and every human man and woman, that's what Alvin Boyd Kuhn also said.
I'm throwing out some of his quotations, but he said the scriptures and the ancient myths are not apprehended or grabbed.
You don't grasp their meaning until each and every man or woman sees himself or herself at the heart of it.
It's not about someone else.
Now, I do believe that we can talk about what I think it means later, but I do believe there is a supernatural realm, an infinite realm that it's pointing to.
But to Luther's point, it's a really excellent point.
Sometimes this word myth might get in our way.
So call it whatever you want.
Ancient sacred stories, sacred traditions, they were given their present in every culture of the world.
The Native Americans have their original instructions.
The cultures from the Pacific Islands have their original instructions that were given to them.
Every culture had these original instructions.
And then later, I think they got taken away or stamped out or discredited or people were told,
Hey, you know, you're just believing in a bunch of demons.
We need to school you to the real true scriptures, which happen to be the ones that we have here.
I think that's a profound problem.
Agreed.
That's still going on.
I totally agree with you.
You brought up some really interesting stuff.
I've tried to be as rational as possible when approaching this in my journey.
I've taken things, if you will, from multiple angles and tried them.
I've tested them. I've even told Luther.
There were moments in my journey, if you will, where I told him, I said, I'm not sure.
The evidence is showing that these aren't literal historical stories, so I'm willing.
And I told Luther, I legitimately was willing to go wherever it took me, even if that was a scary place.
I told him, I said, it might be one of those places where, at the end, there is nothing.
But I'm going to do honest research.
And as I began to do so, I stumbled across a lot of these star ideas and the concepts and constellations.
It opened this door.
And your name is in this scheme of things for gentlemen who've done this research as well.
And I said, oh my goodness, hold on.
Before I throw the baby out with the bathwater, because I was stuck with only this option, it was obvious this did not literally happen.
Unless I wanted to fantasize and be a fundamentalist in some way and absolutely disregard any other evidence and just go with what we've been told.
So then I was stuck with this option where I'm like, it's myth, but what does this mean?
And I started seeing evidence, but look, I've got very little.
I told Luther, I said, this is going to be an interesting show because I think you're going to be...
We're going to be taking a journey with you, I think.
It's going to be interesting.
Yeah, go ahead, Luther, go ahead.
No, I just wanted to make a correction because somebody chimed in.
I see a text message and said, what podcast, but we're doing Skype.
I'm so used to doing podcasts.
So my apologies for that.
But we are eager, David, to have you walk us through the night sky and just give us some evidence for astral theology.
Take it where you will, whatever culture, whatever time, whatever place.
Derek, you ready to take a walk and have David lead us on the journey through the night sky?
You already know I am, brother.
All right, David, it's yours, man. Take the driver's seat.
All right, thank you, Luther.
Well, I appreciate what you said, Derek, about your own personal journey.
And I would say that you can use the odyssey of ancient Greece as your Bible as well.
But you don't have to believe that it's literal.
You know, I think they're all connected and I actually think they're all teaching the same thing.
So now, because we're talking a lot of generalities, let me boil down what I have been working on and what I've been looking at.
What I really mean when I say I believe the Bible is based on the stars.
I believe that it's based on the same system as these other myths from around the world.
But if somebody believes the Bible literally, I'm not going to say you have to be ridiculous to believe that.
See, I think there's so much truth and value in there that that's why people wouldn't, for century after century, put up with the teachings if there wasn't a lot of truth there.
So if you believe it literally and you don't want to see this evidence, then I would recommend turn it off now.
But I'm not trying to step on anybody else's beliefs.
The problem is when somebody who takes it literally uses that to excuse oppression or violence, which has been the case a lot and is still including the Bible.
People would say, well, it's people who believe that other thing.
I'm not trying to step on anyone's belief and most of the people who are listening to this are not doing oppressing others, although hopefully we're not enabling the oppression of others through what we believe.
But I'm going to take a look at, we're going to dial down into the actual constellations a little bit because, Derek, I don't know, it might be your microphone.
Maybe you want to use your internal, your regular mic instead.
I'm not sure if that's what it is.
But let me put up a little presentation that I can use to show some visuals, to show some constellations, and then we can go from there.
So I'm going to share my screen and I go to this one.
Can you still see me okay?
I can't see you guys now.
Derek, thumbs up.
Can you see my screen?
I can see you as a small circle in the upper right hand corner.
But I can see your screen, yes.
Okay, right on.
So I'm trying to present, I've got a, here we go, trying to make that the full screen.
So you can see that okay?
Yeah, we got that.
Star Mids of the World.
Right on.
So I'm going to just zoom down into, and I just wanted to give right up front, and we've already touched on this.
I don't have a lot of words on this presentation.
It's mostly pictures, but kind of five big points to zero people in.
And as I've already said, I am finding evidence that all the world's ancient myths and scriptures are based on esoteric celestial metaphor.
We could talk about the definition of esoteric, but let's talk about the celestial metaphor.
I believe it's the same system found worldwide.
So they're all closely related.
I do believe they're designed to convey profound truths.
This isn't quote unquote, like primitive groping of early humans after, you know, trying to figure out why there's a solar eclipse or why there is a volcano.
Some people would argue that's what this came from.
I would say there's, there's a lot of reasons to believe it started with profound spiritual understanding.
You don't make the metaphor.
You can't make the metaphor pointing to something higher.
If you don't already know where you're trying to point somebody, Mr. Miyagi had to know karate really, really well before he could say, hmm, I know waxing the car would be a good way to teach this.
So it's, it's profound.
It's not primitive, so to speak, quote unquote.
And it's not about someone else.
As I mentioned, this is a quotation from Alvin Boyd Cune that it's not apprehended in its full force and applicability until every man and woman sees himself or herself to be the central figure.
So, so I want to just show some of these constellations and the part of the problem of when I'm trying to explain what I mean to somebody is we don't really have a in general.
If I ask somebody, could you please sketch out the stars of Sagittarius or the stars of Capricorn on this piece of paper here while we're sitting, you know, over dinner?
Hey, could you just sketch out the constellation Hercules for me?
There's not probably three people in a thousand that could do that.
Maybe there's more than that.
But the point is we're never taught this in school.
Most of us are not taught how to see the constellations and then where we are, when, when, when we try, we're presented with pictures like this, which might be very poetic looking, but it's not very helpful.
You're not actually going to see that projected in the sky.
This is off of a planetarium map that I use, which is actually a great app, but I never use these this artwork.
And have you guys heard me talk about H. A. Ray before?
Yes, yes, he's he's the author of the curious George series that I listened to as a child.
Awesome.
Awesome. Awesome.
So H. A. Ray, not just the author and creator of curious George, along with his wife, Margaret.
So he and she both created an illustrated curious George, and that's what he's most well known for.
But he also loved the stars.
But he complained in this book that he wrote in 1953.
He published a book called The Stars, A New Way to See Them.
And he said, the stars are fantastic.
I love the stars.
They're ancient, you know, ancient cultures obviously place a lot of importance on the stars.
But we are impoverished by not having a good way to visualize them.
So when we go out in the night sky, we get frustrated.
And he said, there's kind of two problems.
It's kind of like what I said earlier to Derek's point.
There's two ways you cannot see the stars.
One is you have these flowery diagrams or these artistic representations.
That's no help.
And then he said, the other way, the other problem is, and I've inverted the colors just to make it a little more visual for people who are trying to watch on a screen.
Everything that is like light colored here is the dark night sky and all the little black dots are obviously the stars, but I've inverted it.
But here's an example of outlines that you would find on Wikipedia or the standard way of outlining.
These are no help either.
So H.A. Ray complained in his book.
He said, we've gone from either these super flowery paintings that you can't see in the sky to these ultra modern kind of sticks that don't tell you anything.
And he said, I think there's a better way.
And he proposed this other way to outline the stars.
So this is a picture of some of the stars of, there should be a way for me to make a bigger pointer.
I should have figured that out before the call.
But maybe you can see my pointer here.
This is Perseus here.
This is Andromeda here.
If you went out into the night sky and tried to find that, first of all, it would be even hard to remember that random set of lines.
But it doesn't look anything like what the names of the constellations are.
So he proposed a different way.
These are generally H.A. Ray outlines that I use.
And as it turns out, H.A. Ray's outlines, either he was inspired by a supernatural divine or, you know, source other, you know, some unnatural source, or he was an inheritor of this ancient tradition.
Or he was just such a genius that the way he outlined them is the same way that the ancients outlined them.
But I'm going to show you some evidence that the ancients also outlined the constellations this same way.
It turns out that in order to see how the stars and the myths are related, using H.A. Ray's outlines are very helpful.
And someone might say, well, that's ridiculous.
He published it in 1953.
Well, I will show you some Greek artwork from 500 BC.
And there's others from even earlier that match right up with his outlines.
But look at the difference here.
See, here's Perseus.
And here's his outline of Perseus.
That's the figure with the triangular hat.
One arm is sticking way out.
One arm is kind of curved there.
Hey, Derek.
I don't know if that's your mic.
Can you hear me, Derek?
I can hear you now.
My mic was muted.
Okay.
Yeah.
Is it muted now?
Because now I don't hear it.
I don't know if maybe there's something, maybe a wire crossed or something in the mic.
But the point that I'm making here is that this outline of Perseus, you can find that in the night sky.
And the distinctive aspects of this outline of Perseus line up with aspects in the myths.
This is the outline of Andromeda.
She's got her arms flung wide apart.
This is actually usually envisioned as a chains around her wrist because in the story of Perseus, he comes to rescue her.
She's chained to a rock.
This is Aries, the ram.
Now I'll go back to the, you're not going to, this is not very helpful for finding Andromeda right here.
So these outlines are very important because they match right up with the myths.
See how Perseus, I'm pointing here with this.
I wish I could make my arrow a little bigger, but this foot is twisted.
You see how it has a twisted foot?
Yeah.
And he also has this hooked kind of hand.
He looks like Captain Hook or something.
Well, this hand, this hook will show up in different ways.
It'll be imagined in different ways, in different myths, including in the Bible.
Like in the Bible, when the first man and first woman are thrown out of the garden, there's an angel with a flaming sword that turns in all directions,
who's placed at the east of Eden.
The east is important because it's Perseus rising in the east with a sword turning in all directions.
But in ancient Greece, this same sword, there's a comparison.
So that's Perseus, in case you couldn't see my little pointer.
That's Perseus.
One is kind of the modern outline.
One is how H.A. Ray.
H.A. Ray, you can see why Perseus has this hooked sword or a sword that turns in all directions, or sometimes it appears in all different ways in different myths and scriptures.
He's got a twisted foot.
That's important.
There's a Bible story where a certain prophet twists his foot.
We can talk about that.
He's got an outstretched arm.
It almost looks like he's waving a wand or stretching out with a wand or maybe a sword towards Andromeda.
He's got a triangular hat.
All those types of things will show up in myths.
There are myths of figures who wear this type of hat that's based on the constellation Perseus.
Or that reflects the constellation Perseus.
I'll show you what I mean.
For instance, in the Perseus story itself, the myth of Perseus, he's actually given a special sword by the god Hermes.
Hermes and Athena helped Perseus to slay the Gorgons.
When he has to go, he's given this task to go bring back the head of Medusa is what the king asks Perseus to do.
Because the king's trying to get rid of Perseus so he can marry Perseus's beautiful mother.
Perseus is thwarting the king because he keeps getting, you know, he's coming into his own, he's becoming a man.
Now he's able to stand up to the king and the king says, great, you're such a hero.
Why don't you go bring me back the head of the Gorgon Medusa.
And so off Perseus says, fine, I'll do that.
And off he goes.
And then the gods come to him and say, you know, Perseus, you're in terrible danger here.
I'm going to have to help you out.
You may not know it, but these Gorgons turn everybody to stone and their scales are so thick that no mortal blade can cut through it.
You're not going to have any success at all, but we'll help you and then you will have success.
And so Hermes gives Perseus a cap of invisibility, which you see there.
You can see he's wearing Hermes's winged cap or Mercury is how Hermes is named in Latin.
So Hermes is the name in ancient Greek.
And he also given the special sword.
It's not not a well-known name of this type of sword, but maybe you guys know the name of this sword.
It's a special kind of a sword with a curved blade.
A lot of video gamers know the name of the sword because apparently there's a like a first person role player video.
Is that a, is that a scimitar?
Yeah, it looks like a scythe or something, but it's actually, they call it a harpay or a harpysword, H-A-R-P.
It's a Greek name, but apparently it's in some video game.
I forget which one. I don't know.
But if you do like a Google search for harpysword, harpysword, you'll find all these video game references.
So he gets this special curved sword.
Well, why does he have a special curved sword?
Because of that, that's pursues.
There's his curved harpysword that he's going to use to cut off the head of the gorgon.
So you wouldn't know that from the modern, if you look at the modern outline, it leaves that curved part, but that's a very important part.
It leaves that part off altogether from the outline of pursues.
Do you see that?
Yes, it almost seems like they deliberately left stuff out, whoever the modern outline is.
It's like they're not wanting you to see how the ancients actually viewed this stuff.
That's right. If you were conspiratorially minded, you might think that somebody is trying to hide the truth from you, right?
Oh, that couldn't be. No, it couldn't be.
We'll just pass that by and continue on, and you can let the listeners decide for themselves.
Clearly, some important parts of the myth would be hard to know that it's based on the stars unless you are familiar with the constellations,
but not just that, unless you know the right way to outline the constellations.
Well, it turns out that HA Ray's outlining system appears to be a worldwide system.
So it's not HA Ray's system, or it may be his, but it was someone else's thousands of years ago.
So let's continue on.
I actually have here, I was going to ask if anyone knows, this is not the story that is preached every Sunday in church.
If you go to church, you might go for many years without hearing about this particular story,
but there is a certain Old Testament figure whose foot is crushed against a wall or twisted against a wall.
I was very angry when that happened. Luther knows, I'm sure.
Let's see. Crushed against the wall. Was that Mephibosheth?
Oh, that's a good one. Yeah, Mephibosheth was also right, lame in his feet.
So I would say that it's very, very likely that Mephibosheth is based on the same constellation,
just like we have characters in Greek myth who are lame in their feet.
Like Hephaestus, the god of the forge is thrown down from heaven by either his father Zeus or his mother Hera.
In different versions, it's different.
But so Mephibosheth is a good answer.
It's not what I was after on this one.
So in this one, this is the story in the book of Judges of a figure.
He's not preached about very often because this is a figure named Balaam.
Balaam is B-A-L-A-A-M.
He's an Old Testament judge in the book of Judges who is asked to go.
He's asked by a king to go curse the king's enemies.
The king is getting ready to have a battle.
He says, I need a I need a prophet or a holy man to curse my enemies so that I will do well in this battle.
So Balaam gets on his donkey.
So it's the story of Balaam and the ass.
It's usually in the King James version.
It's Balaam and the ass.
And he gets on the donkey and the donkey heads off down the road and then the donkey stops the ass.
And Balaam starts getting angry.
The reason the donkey has stopped is because there's an angel in the way.
But Balaam doesn't see the angel.
Just the donkey does.
So he starts, you know, getting mad, trying to get the donkey to go.
Donkey won't go.
Donkeys, you know, very frightened by the angel backs up and crushes Balaam's foot against the wall.
And Balaam starts beating the donkey because his foot hurts.
And finally the angel reveals itself to Balaam.
And the donkey actually starts talking.
That's another important part.
Probably why it's not preached about every Sunday.
But the donkey says to Balaam, why are you beating me?
You know, I've served you all these years and you're beating me.
And I'm just trying to help you out.
There's an angel with a sword in front of us.
And then the angel reveals to Balaam and says, why stop beating that poor animal?
You know, if it hadn't stopped, you would have, if she hadn't stopped, it's a female donkey.
If she hadn't stopped, you would have been in danger.
So she's just trying to help you.
Well, that story is based, I would argue, on this very part of the sky where Pursus,
that is the constellation whose foot gets twisted.
He's often riding on a donkey.
This is actually the constellation Taurus.
Taurus down here is right underneath Pursus.
The long horns of Taurus could be envisioned as the long ears of an ass or a donkey.
And so, and the reason I know that that is a valid interpretation is because the same V-shape in Taurus
serves as the jawbone of the ass in the story of Samson.
I won't go into the story of Samson, but the constellation Taurus could be an ass
as well.
So I believe that's Pursus right there is Balaam.
There's this twisted foot in the angel that's blocking his way.
In this case is actually Andromeda.
Go ahead, Luther or Derek, whoever it was.
Oh, I just, I just was going to ask you.
I wrote something down just so I didn't forget.
It sounds to me the crushed foot concept also could go right back to Genesis 3
with the idea of crushing the serpent's head.
Is that tied into the same constellation or is this a different?
Great question.
I would argue a different constellation because it's not, the foot doesn't get crushed.
That's Genesis 3.15 that you're referring to.
I actually have a picture of it a little bit later, but it's a good call.
That is celestial in nature, but it's the head of the serpent that gets crushed.
You will bruise his heel and he'll crush your head.
So that's a great point.
But there are many figures who have a crushed foot.
The word Oedipus in ancient Greece has to do with, it's just like octopus.
Octopus is eight feet.
Oedipus means crushed or twisted foot or something like that.
I'm not a scholar of ancient Greek, but it has to do with the same concept.
So anyway, I'm just showing, I don't want to bog down on the story of Balaam in the ass,
but when I say all the stories can be seen to be related to the stars,
I'm trying to show, you have to know the constellations.
They're not hard to learn.
You can read H.A. Ray's book, The Stars, A New Way to See Them.
But once you understand the constellations and their specific characteristics,
then the stories start to make more sense, or the constellations that they're based on make more sense.
So let me show another one just to move along from Balaam.
Let's move to a different constellation.
We'll get to the one that you're asking about in a minute, Derek.
That's a great question.
So hold that thought.
Oh, here's mine.
I've got a whole blog post that people can read about the story Balaam in the ass.
And so there is Balaam riding on the donkey.
In this case, it's the constellation Taurus.
Long horns can become long ears of a donkey.
And there's other pursues figures who have donkey ears that we'll talk about later that supports this interpretation.
And then Andromeda does play an angel sometimes.
And I believe that's who's playing the angel in this story.
So we'll move on to, let me show you another constellation.
Here's modern outlines again for a different part of the sky.
And this is Hercules and his friends.
This is an outline of Hercules.
This is an outline of Bootes.
This is an outline of Virgo.
Those are not very helpful once again.
Although the outline of the Big Dipper is fine.
There's your Big Dipper right there.
But so sometimes the modern outlines aren't terrible.
Like this is, sorry about that.
Let me get back here.
This is the Great Swan Cygnus.
That's not a bad way to outline Cygnus.
I would connect these lines.
But let me show you the HA Ray.
Sometimes I deviate a little bit from HA Ray.
But in general, I use HA Ray's outlines.
This is kind of how I outline Cygnus slightly different than HA Ray.
Because these triangles, these two triangles are really easy to see in the night sky.
And you can see them right now actually.
But what I'm trying to show right now is this constellation Hercules.
Here's the constellation Hercules.
Here's the way you'll see it outlined on Wikipedia or on an iPhone app.
Not very helpful.
That outline actually, that outline can be helpful.
Sometimes the myths will use different ways of envisioning Hercules in particular.
A couple different ways.
But what I want to show is this way of outlining Hercules as a powerful figure.
Kind of lunging forward, brandishing a sword over his head.
See how that is?
You wouldn't get that from this outline of Hercules.
You wouldn't get that.
But that outline right there is very, very helpful for understanding a lot of myths.
Hercules is a really important constellation.
Also, you can look at Bootes.
That's the constellation that's over here in front of Hercules.
That's how HA Ray outlines Bootes.
Here's the modern outline.
It's terrible.
You'd have a hard time finding that in the sky.
Or same thing down here.
Sorry about that.
My mouse is too sensitive.
This outline of Virgo doesn't really help you see how Virgo is a reclining virgin or maiden or beautiful woman.
And I'd never be able to find her sheath in her left hand.
She's got a sheath of wheat.
I can hardly see it in that outline.
Right.
Right.
That is a beautiful constellation called Coma Baronesis.
It's an important one as well.
And you're right, Luther.
So her hand, that's an important point you're bringing up.
See, she's got this distinctive outstretched arm.
That's one of her most important aspects or one important aspect of this very important constellation, Virgo.
But you could envision another line from her hand to the bottom star in the constellation Coma Baronesis.
And then she would be holding that sheath, which is an important aspect of the constellation Virgo.
So great point.
So let me show you some ancient pottery that relates to this outline of Hercules.
Because it's, I think, really easy to see in these ancient Greek vases.
So here's the comparison.
Again, on the left is the modern way that you'll still see this on Wikipedia or on different planetarium apps.
On the right is the HA Ray method.
So now let's look at a couple.
Here's an ancient vase.
That's Hercules.
Look at how he's brandishing that club over his head, right?
And he's also reaching out in this pottery.
He's being depicted as fighting some Amazons, some warrior women.
And he's reaching out.
He's about to grasp the helmet crest of that one Amazon in front of him.
And what's really interesting is right in front of Hercules.
So now I've just put up the stars over here on the left.
If your audience can see that, you can see how the outline of Hercules.
He's got, you know, one leg behind him.
He's got his one arm overhead.
And then his other arm is reaching down.
You see in front of Hercules, there's this beautiful little arc of stars.
You see that?
And I'm kind of pointing to that's called the northern crown.
It's a pretty easy to see constellation.
Well, you can envision Hercules.
Like I said, you can add another line in your mind.
And the ancients obviously did.
In some cases, Hercules will reach out and grasp something that's associated with the northern crown.
In this case, this curved arc of the helmet.
Sometimes it's a discus that he's throwing.
Sometimes it's the horns of a bull that he's fighting or a horned river god that he's fighting.
But often in the myths, you'll see a figure who's associated with Hercules reaching out towards that arc of stars.
So let me see what we have here.
Okay.
I'm just, I'm going to zip through one more constellation just to show you.
Here's another terrible modern outline for this is the constellation Sagittarius.
Now, actually, they've outlined this part of Sagittarius is very visible.
And sometimes it's called the teapot in modern, modern, you know, like, it's kind of an informal part of the constellation Sagittarius.
And those are the brightest stars of Sagittarius, the teapot.
But you wouldn't really be able to understand any of the mythical aspects of Sagittarius with this outline.
But let me show you how H.A. Ray has Sagittarius outline.
Oh, yeah.
This is a big difference.
So now you can see why Sagittarius carries a bow and we'll get to some, we'll get to some biblical and other mythological connections of this constellation.
But if you don't know the constellation Sagittarius, then when I start telling you, or when I start trying to explain to people, you know, all the Bible and all the myths are based on the stars.
It's really hard to understand what I'm saying unless you see this.
So that's why putting it up on these visuals hopefully will help people understand what I'm talking about.
But Sagittarius is pointing the bow right towards this constellation of Scorpio.
So here's, here's how H.A. Ray outlines Scorpio with the two pinchers here.
So you can see Scorpio is a pretty, pretty long, it's a very large constellation in the night sky, beautiful, very beautiful.
It dominates the night sky in the summer.
H.A. Ray makes those two claws, but actually I will often outline it with multiple heads because in many, many myths, Scorpio will play a monster with many heads.
Like when Hercules or Heracles, the hero Heracles, battles the nine-headed Hydra, I believe he's battling Scorpio.
But in the Bible we have a seven-headed dragon.
That would be the constellation Scorpio with multiple heads.
So in different myths, sometimes it's three heads, sometimes it's, see, here's a modern outline of Scorpio.
It's not terrible, it kind of leaves off the barb at the end of the stinger tail.
Let me show you, but you can see there's three really bright stars.
So in some myths, this constellation will have three heads, like the three-headed dog at the entrance to the underworld in the Greek and Roman myths.
Cerberus or Kerberus, I believe, actually lines up with Scorpio.
I talk about that in one of my books, but it can be three heads, it can be seven heads, it can be nine heads, sometimes eight heads, but it's a multi-headed constellation.
So that's why I deviate slightly from H.A. Ray.
But the main point I'm making here is you wouldn't know Sagittarius.
You wouldn't be able to see some of these mythical connections for Sagittarius that I'm going to show you in a minute if you don't outline it, if you're not able to imagine this outline.
So let me show you a Greek vase that I love that's located now in Boston.
You can find this in the Boston Museum of Fine Art.
This is the goddess Artemis.
I think this is one of the best examples I can show of how the stars in the myths visually, how you can see that the system that H.A. Ray was proposing is actually very ancient.
This is a fifth century BC vase, a bell crater.
It has big handles on either side.
I've been to see it in the Museum of Fine Art in Boston.
I'm really, really happy to get to see it in person.
This is Artemis slaying the unfortunate youth Actaeon who's being torn apart by his own hunting dogs.
He accidentally stumbled.
He was wandering around in the woods after a hard day of hunting.
He was just kind of absent-mindedly relaxing, wandering around.
He accidentally came to the grove where the goddess was bathing in a pool with being attended by her nymphs.
He stumbled upon her and saw her while she was bathing, and she got very angry with that.
In most aspects of the story, he's turned into a stag and then his own dogs tear him apart.
This painter has not depicted him as a stag, but can you see the connection to Sagittarius that we just saw?
Let me put up some stars here.
There's the constellation Sagittarius as H.A. Ray outlines Sagittarius.
I hope that you can see the angle of the body, the length of her skirt, the angle that she's holding the bow.
Even there's a little plume on top of the head of Sagittarius.
If you look over here, there's a line of stars that go up from the head of Sagittarius.
The ancient artist has even put a plume right here.
I don't know if it's her quiver of arrows or what that is, but behind the goddess there's this plume with a tassel on it.
All these points of connection between the goddess as depicted, even the angle that she's holding her bow, and the stars in the night sky.
I would even argue that this arc here of the tail of this dog would match up with the southern crown.
This is the southern crown right here.
But the ancient artist has actually chosen to depict, I would argue, Actaeon in the guise of Scorpio.
Same general body angle.
The arms kind of outflung that delta at the head of the Scorpio.
I would say that he is depicting a Scorpio kind of posture for Actaeon.
Now somebody might say, oh, that's a stretch.
Okay, maybe, but look, are you telling me that that's a stretch to Sagittarius?
Clearly, the goddess is lined up with Sagittarius and right across from Sagittarius,
where Sagittarius is pointing the bow in the night sky is towards Scorpio.
So what I'm saying is, if you were using the modern outlines, you would look at this vase.
You could look at it every day for a year.
I think that it relates to the stars.
See what I'm saying?
Now real quick, while we're on this here, is it, I hear a noise, is it possible what we're looking at here is also in the story of
Judas Iscariot and this idea of Scorpio being Judas.
I mean, I've heard that said before, are we jumping too far ahead?
Well, I wasn't actually getting, I don't have any pictures of that, but let's ask a question.
How did Judas meet his end?
Anyone know how he met his end?
Yeah, there were two accounts.
Right, there's two accounts.
Yeah, one is a hanging and the other is he fell headlong and his bowels gushed out.
Exactly, that's two different constellations.
But which one do you think, so there's actually a funny anecdote that I've heard pastors say or some pastors said,
this is a reason why you don't just open up the Bible to find inspiration.
You open up and look at the first verse you read.
So a pastor was saying, well, some people have said, well, when I get into trouble, I just open up the Bible and I follow the first verse I read.
And the pastor said, now there's a gentleman who did that and he opened up the Bible and the first verse he saw was Judas hung himself.
He said, oh, I don't like that verse.
I'll open up to a different one.
So he flipped through randomly and he opened up to a different verse and he put his finger on the page and it said, now go ye and do likewise.
In other words, it was an anecdote that was told in church, one of the many years that I was going to church, why you don't just randomly take verses out of context.
So as Luther correctly said, there's two different verses.
One says Judas hanged himself.
See that little line right there?
I'm pointing with my mouse over here to the constellation Sagittarius.
Oh, okay.
If you were to depict someone hanging, you would have a rope going up, right?
Right.
That's Judas hung himself.
There's a different constellation where he falls forward and his bowels pour out.
I'll show you that constellation a little bit.
That wasn't something I was planning to get into.
So yes, sometimes these myths or sacred stories are very gruesome or even bizarre in some places.
Some of the things that the Greek gods do or some of the Egyptian gods, you might say, what?
I love myth, but the more I read it, I loved it as a child, but I realized they kind of cleaned up a lot of things.
There's a lot in the myths.
I would argue are based on the stars that are teaching us profound things,
but sometimes they'll be pretty violent or gruesome.
So anyway, that I would argue is how you get Judas hung himself.
David, if you don't mind real quick, I only brought that up because I just wanted to kind of tell people,
our audience, just to give an example, this thing is all over.
And so you don't have to show any of these constellations if they're not in the scheme,
but if you want to make comments about it, because I'm sure we're going to see enough evidence as it is,
but there's so much.
This thing, like you said, you could practically, if not every story could be seen this way.
I have not seen every story like this, but I'm learning as we go.
So this is interesting.
All right, I'm muting.
Yeah, great.
So I do have a book called Star Myths of the Bible and it doesn't go into every single episode and character in the Bible,
but it goes through a lot and it turned out to be 766 pages.
So there is so much evidence that the Bible is based on the stars and that ties it to all the other myths,
because as we can see here, the Greek myths are based on the stars.
So we'll get to some of these other stories that you're bringing up,
because now that you've mentioned them, I'll point them out when we get to those constellations.
So I would just show three different constellations, mainly Sagittarius, Hercules, and Perseus,
where the constellations as outlined, if you go to, like I said, Wikipedia or many modern books,
you won't see the outlines in a way that will help you to actually decode the ancient myths
or that won't help you very much to find them in the night sky either.
So I totally recommend HA Ray.
So I just put up the modern version.
You can see that looking at the modern version wouldn't help you very much in understanding this one at all.
So let's talk to a couple of those myths or ancient sacred stories that you brought up.
Derek mentioned the crushing of the head.
So I actually did prepare a little discussion of that here.
This is the passage in Genesis 3.15.
It's sometimes called the proto-gospel, because it's seen as, oh, this must be talking about Jesus as the seed of the woman.
Actually, I would say that here's the virgin, Virgo.
In this case, her offspring is Ophiuchus.
So in some stories, you see how she's lying on her back with her feet elevated and apart.
Often she's seen as being in the process of giving birth.
That is how all babies come into the world as their mothers have to push the baby out.
In this constellation in the Northern Hemisphere goes across the sky on her back like that.
So in the Northern Hemisphere, it looks like she is in the act of giving birth,
and different constellations can be envisioned as the child.
So in the Maui story, in one version of the Maui myth in the Pacific,
he is thrown into the sea by his parents because they're so horrified that Maui is born with eight heads.
Well, I would argue that is Scorpio, right here.
He's thrown into the sea foam.
Scorpio, remember, has eight heads.
The sea foam in this case is the Milky Way.
If you can see my mouse, I've outlined the Milky Way in red here.
Scorpio has been thrown into the sea foam there.
If this was not, I inverted the colors to make it easier for people to see,
because it's harder when the background is black and you just have the little white dots.
This is a lot easier to see, but obviously in the night sky, you'll be able to see the Milky Way just fine.
It'll be this brilliant shining band.
Well, this is actually the brightest, shiniest, widest part of the Milky Way is right here between Sagittarius and Scorpio.
So the offspring of Virgo could be Scorpio, or it could be Ophiuchus.
Now, in this particular passage in Genesis 3.15, I would argue that Ophiuchus is the seed of the woman
that is going to crush the head of the seed of the serpent.
Actually, I think the serpent that talks to Eve, you can just see the tail of it.
It's Hydra, but this is the offspring or the seed of the woman and the offspring or the seed of the serpent.
Hydra has already disappeared.
Hydra is this long serpent that's right underneath Virgo.
So Hydra has already disappeared into the West.
Remember when the Lord throws Adam and Eve out of the garden?
The first one that he addresses is the serpent.
He says, you're going to crawl on your belly and eat dust.
That's actually, he's going back down into the earth.
He's sinking down in the Western horizon.
Then he throws out the woman.
He turns to the woman next.
Then he throws out the man.
This is Bellodes up here.
That's probably Adam.
He came from the dust.
He came from the Eastern horizon and into dust.
He's going to return in the Western horizon.
Then we'll get the angel with the flaming sword will come up in the East after they've been expelled from the garden.
So I went into a little tangent, but I would say that's the seed of the serpent.
Scorpio is the offspring that's being stepped on by the offspring of Virgo.
But you can see that bruising his head, biting his heel.
Hey, David, in Luke chapter 10, Jesus has 72.
Some manuscripts say 70 disciples and he sends them out two by two.
And he says this, which always struck me as a clear picture of Ophiuchus.
He says, behold, I give you power to tread on serpents and scorpions.
And he mentions both of them, serpents and scorpions.
And Jesus is giving that power to his disciples.
Isn't it interesting that there's a transfer of legacy going on?
And now the seed of the woman apparently is inherited by the disciples.
What do you think of that?
I think that's a great piece of analysis, Luther.
I would definitely agree with you.
I think Ophiuchus is an extremely important figure.
And Christ does match up with Ophiuchus in many, but not all, stories.
And I think that you're absolutely right.
That quotation that I put up earlier about Alvin Boyd Kuhn saying,
and these stories aren't really grasped or apprehended in their full force and power
until we realize it's about us.
This is actually something for us in this life.
So I would absolutely agree with you.
I would say it has an esoteric meaning.
It doesn't necessarily mean that we can handle poisonous snakes.
I know some people believe it means that, but I would say it's an esoteric meaning.
But I think that's a wonderful interpretation that you've pointed out.
And I would totally agree it's celestial.
It's esoteric language based on celestial metaphor.
And even the number 72 is a celestial number.
It's a number that is found in sacred traditions around the world.
And it has been argued, and I agree with this argument,
that it relates to the procession of the equinoxes.
And that's another long sidebar.
But just that number 72 or 70, it's a celestial number.
So this is, I would say, definitely a celestial passage.
But hopefully that answers to your earlier question too, Derek,
about what this has to do with crushing.
This is the Lord speaking to the serpent in this particular passage.
That's why he says,
I'll put enmity between the and the woman
and between thy seed, Scorpio, and her seed, Ophiuchus.
It shall bruise thy head and thou shall bruise his field.
Now this was our dinner course meal, right?
I think I'm full.
I don't know if I can handle too much more of this meal.
I know.
So for our audience, this blue line is the horizon, correct?
This is dealing with what you're seeing at the horizon east to west, correct?
Right.
Yeah, I'm glad you brought that up.
So this is, whoops, I was trying to move my mouse down to the bottom,
but if you can see at the bottom there,
this is a great free app that you can download to your laptop
or your desktop, which is called Stellarium or Stellarium,
S-T-E-L-L-A-R-I-U-M, Stellarium.
And it's a planetarium app.
So you can change your longitude and latitude.
You can change your location.
So this is the horizon as it appears where I have it dialed up,
which happens to be in my longitude and latitude,
35 degrees north is where I am here in California.
That's how far north I am in California where I live.
So that's where the horizon would be at the particular date and time
that I dialed up to illustrate this to people.
But the horizon will be in a different place at different times of the year
and in different latitudes.
But to your, I'm glad you brought it up,
because as I was trying to explain the story of Adam and Eve and the serpent,
it doesn't matter where you are on the earth.
The stars will cross the sky from east to west.
They will rise in the east.
They will set in the west, just like the sun does,
because the earth is rotating towards the east.
At least I believe it's rotating towards the east.
Some people have argued with me on that,
but I believe we're on a spherical earth that's rotating towards the east.
So the sun will rise in the east.
Well, so will the stars.
So you can see down there at the center of the picture, there's the letter S.
That means right now the way I've turned this planetarium I'm facing to the south.
So east is to our left.
West is to our right.
So the stars in this diagram are all rotating through the course of a day
or the course of a night because of the earth's rotation from left to right
as we're facing this.
So that's an important point to bring up.
So there's another serpent over here who's already descended down into the west,
because these stars are all rotating towards the right and down on our screen.
Powerful.
That's all I could say.
This is awesome.
It's so beautiful to see this.
It's so freeing.
And once again, to the beginning of this discussion,
now you can see why this still applies.
It's not a historical one-time event.
It's not only to this people specifically.
Don't get me wrong.
Many people may have used these stories and applied to them to their people.
But this is why I was telling people, there's a group of people who rightfully so point out
that these myths or these stories are for Israel only.
It's Israel's stories.
But when you miss that these stories came from other peoples,
and you can see how all of this stuff is borrowed,
because it's all telling you the truth about the heavens and how it applies to the earth,
then you can go, you know what?
That's fine.
I agree that the biblical stories are an Israel story,
but you're missing the esoteric application of this stuff to yourself.
You can read it in, like you said, the Greek myths.
You can read it in.
I'm sure that the Asian myths that over in Asia and that part of the world,
wherever you go, it's just culturally different.
And there's minor details that vary and what not based off of that area or whatever they experience.
But the same underlying principle of what you're talking about right here is true for everyone.
And this is not to only specific people.
Yeah, it is worldwide, Derek.
So it's the same system worldwide.
So even in the myths of ancient China and ancient Japan,
like there's a story about the Lantern Festival in China that they celebrate every year.
And it's about the Emperor of Heaven is angry with the people
because they burned up a special bird that he loved.
His beautiful bird was burned up by the people.
It flew through the fire or something.
Well, I believe that's see these two great birds in the Milky Way.
That's the fire, the river of, you know, it could be a river.
It could be smoke.
It could be fire.
Anyway, there's lots of stories in the Kojiki of ancient Japan.
They're based on the same system.
So let me just show you one other biblical one here from.
So this is Genesis.
Let me jump all the way to the book of Revelation.
Hey, David, while you're queuing that up just to key in on what Derek said and what you said,
it seems as if the variations in these stories are not really a problem because they're not meant to be uniform.
You know, I mean, this stuff would drive literalists like Irenaeus and Tertullian and the early church fathers who were anti-nostic.
It would drive them crazy because they say you guys are coming up with all these variations of stories.
It has to be a uniform truth.
It's got to be the same thing.
But what we're seeing are variations on a theme.
Is that right?
Right.
So if you take them literally, then you do have a problem.
And I've been asked this problem when I was a literalist.
I had some trouble with, you know, the question of, wait a minute, if the scripture says that Judas hanged himself,
then how did he also fall down in a field and his bowels spewed out?
Right.
And well, I guess, you know, it could be reconciled by saying, well, after he hanged himself, then the rope must have broken and then he fell.
But it's, and his bowels spewed out, you know, and he said, okay, that could be.
But it's not a problem if it is esoteric, if it is understood as a metaphor.
So one that I like to use is the story of Achilles.
And Achilles is a famous hero in ancient Greece, is in the Iliad.
And in many aspects of the myth, he is rendered invulnerable to being killed by mortal weapons,
because when he was a baby, his mother dangled him in either, I don't know if you guys know,
but there's a couple of variations, either in a fire or in the River Styx,
either it's a magic fire or in the River Styx, but she dangles him by his,
she had to hold him somewhere when she dangled him in the fire so she held him by the heel, right?
That's why we have an Achilles tendon.
That's where Achilles was held by his heel.
Well, we don't find any record of ancient Greeks having a big argument over,
well, was it a River Styx or was it a fire?
Well, I'm from the camp.
I'm going to be an Achilles was dipped in the river sect,
and I'm dead set against people who are of the Achilles was dipped in a fire denomination,
because I don't think they saw it as a problem.
There were different versions of all these different myths,
and it was not seen as a problem because it was esoteric.
It has a meaning, but it's not a literal meaning.
It's the same thing with the Book of Revelation,
and I think it's taken in all kinds of literal ways that are not helpful.
Like this passage that I've put up here,
some people think this is about helicopters in the apocalypse.
It's going to happen and it's describing helicopters.
They didn't know how to describe helicopters,
so they described them as horses with tails like scorpions.
This is from Revelation 9, and it's the smoke that arose from the bottomless pit.
You can see there came out of the smoke locusts upon the earth,
and under them was given power as the scorpions of the earth have power,
and the shape of the locust was likened to horses,
prepared under battle, and some people take that as must-be helicopters,
and their faces were as the faces of men,
and they had tails like scorpions, and it stings in their tails.
Look, if you're trying to take it literally,
I'm not trying to actually poke fun at people,
because if they're trying to take it literally,
they're trying to take it literally.
But this was another passage after I saw the Samson passage
that really I was taking the Bible literally,
and Hamlet's Mill actually discusses this passage and says
they must be talking about the Milky Way and the constellation Scorpio,
and I said, oh, that actually makes a lot of sense.
So if you look at...
This is the standard outline of Sagittarius.
You can see that teapot right there.
See the teapot outline, the teapot-like outline?
That is actually very easy to see in the night sky.
It's not terrible that they outlined the teapot there.
Now, this is more useful for seeing the myths,
but the teapot could also be seen actually as a grasshopper.
This would be its head over here on the left.
It could have two little antennas sticking up here.
One leg here, one leg here.
You see, grasshoppers kind of fold their legs up.
Can you see how that's a grasshopper?
Oh, yeah, I can see.
You see one leg arching over its back?
You could even...
This leg could actually...
You could have the end of the leg sticking down here like this
if you're looking there.
That's the locusts.
So we have lots of locusts in the Bible.
They're generally talking about this part of the sky right here.
I would argue that is that constellation Sagittarius.
So we know that Sagittarius is often envisioned as a centaur with a bow.
Sagittarius, if you look up Sagittarius,
the sign, the astrological sign, is a centaur.
So these are men with faces like men,
tails like scorpions.
They're like locusts.
They're like scorpions.
It's talking about this part of the night sky.
The smoke arising from the bottomless pit would be the Milky Way
because this is the brightest part of the Milky Way.
And even they have crowns on their head.
Here's Sagittarius here.
You see the southern crown right there.
They're on their heads with crowns like gold.
Here's the scorpion tail.
They had long hair like women.
You see this up here that we've been talking about.
Even in...
There's some stories of Greek myths where Achilles was dressed as a woman
when he was a child.
His mother would dress him as a girl
because she heard from the oracle that he was going to die in battle.
So she would dress him as a woman.
So Sagittarius is often a constellation that will play both a male or a female figure.
See, because of the long skirts.
So sometimes Sagittarius, all these constellations will be
sometimes a male figure, sometimes a female figure.
But let me show you how it sometimes also looks like a horse or a centaur.
You could actually...
I've drawn another line in here.
This is how I believe Sagittarius lines up also as a centaur.
So I'll take that line away.
Maybe your viewers can see.
There's a little star right here.
So H.A. Ray does an outline it this way.
But I believe that this long body that usually looks like a skirt
the way H.A. Ray has it looks like a skirt.
That could be the body of the horse of the centaur.
There is another constellation called Centaurus.
But we know that Sagittarius is envisioned as a centaur
because astrologically the sign of Sagittarius looks like a centaur.
Well as H.A. Ray outlines it doesn't look like a centaur.
But there are nearby stars that make sense.
If you connect that line then now we've got a human torso with a horse's body.
Here's the horse's legs and there's even stars for the tail.
Actually, I didn't draw them in but there's a little tuft right here.
There's four little stars kind of in a little diamond.
And there's your centaur.
So I would argue that that is what is going on in this passage in Revelation.
There's lots more.
I mentioned Hamlet's Mill.
I just wanted to finish off this little segment.
And we can go back to just our faces talking if you want.
I've got more stuff to show but we don't have to.
There's no particular distance we have to go on this marathon.
I'm just showing you some examples.
But this is a really haunting quote that I love.
Quotation from Hamlet's Mill.
This book was really instrumental in kind of starting me on this path.
And on page four they say,
The dust of centuries had settled upon the remains.
This is how ancient it is.
The dust of centuries had settled upon the remains of this great worldwide archaic construction
when the Greeks came upon the scene.
It's so old.
It was already blanketed in dust when the ancient Greeks arrived.
It predates ancient Egypt.
It predates ancient Babylon.
It predates ancient China.
And it's worldwide.
So I believe it's probably very ancient.
And then they said,
But something of it survived in traditional rites and rituals,
in myths and fairy tales,
no longer understood.
I mean, what a haunting passage.
We have this inheritance but it's kind of in pieces
and it's not really well understood anymore.
Yeah, this is interesting, David.
My mind right now is loving this.
I mean, this is just so...
I'm serious.
We weren't laughing necessarily just making fun of the literalist approach.
We're laughing because we used to do that.
So it's like, we used to figure things out.
We laugh at it now because it's like,
Wow, when you only know what you know, you only know.
But with what you just said here,
something comes to mind.
And I feel like we're going to discover more.
This stuff is so rich.
It's so deep.
And there's a lot of numbers.
That'll be another show just showing how they could see.
How do they know how to check precession?
You had to be here for a long time
to really know how to calculate the movement,
the measurements, the time spans, the distances.
I mean, everything that we've seen
and what me and Luther have been on,
I'm sure you've been in these areas too.
But something to take note of is like,
Glebeke Tepe is on the scene.
I'm interested to find out as more research comes out
over the next century what we might discover
about how what Hamlet's Mill is saying here
might be seen even little hints of that
in something that's 12,000 years old.
And that's just what we can carbon date.
That's not even maybe what's underneath Glebeke Tepe
or if we find something else.
It just doesn't make sense to say
we just out of nowhere understood this stuff
and just had these stories ready.
This is too complex.
Right. You bring up a really important point.
So there's archaeological finds around the world
which point to the evidence that the conventional timeline
of human history is probably in need of some radical revision,
which I think it is.
And Glebeke Tepe is a really important site
because it was only really uncovered in the late 90s.
So this book was written in 1969, Hamlet's Mill.
And authors like Graham Hancock who referenced Hamlet's Mill
were writing in the early 90s saying,
there's so much evidence around the world
that there may have been something much more
to our ancient history than we know.
And the conventional archaeologists would say,
well, come on, show us some evidence.
There's nothing more ancient than the ancient Egypt.
There's nothing more ancient than ancient Mesopotamia
or ancient, there's some ancient civilizations in India
or even cultures in the Americas.
They're finding evidence that much more ancient
than had been admitted before.
But when Glebeke Tepe came out, as you said,
it was buried in like 10,000 BC.
Who knows how long before that it was created,
but it was not created by hunter-gatherers
because these are very finely worked, very huge stones.
And you just don't have that kind of time to develop
those kinds of specialized skills
if you're living a very precarious existence.
So I believe there was probably some very ancient culture.
I don't know if it was a civilization or what it was,
but it was very sophisticated spiritually, very advanced,
apparently had advanced astronomical knowledge,
and then something happened to it, probably catastrophic.
And then the remnants are now the survivors of that.
We're all the descendants of the survivors of that
all around the world, but it's been so long
that the traditions have all diverged into these different forms,
but they all still share this common heritage.
But putting all the pieces back together again is very difficult.
So what I always like to say is I can point to the evidence
that all the world's myths are based on the stars.
I believe I can prove that beyond a doubt.
I can go through hundreds of examples from Greece,
hundreds of examples from Norse myths,
hundreds of examples from the Americas,
or from Asia, or from Australia even,
which is a very ancient culture, right?
Australia was thought to be isolated for several thousands of years.
So if this system is in use in Australia,
which I believe it can be shown to be in use in their myths as well,
then this must be very ancient indeed.
And I would argue that this mythical evidence
stands alongside all that archaeological evidence,
like Gobekli Tepe, as a whole other body of evidence
that points to the fact that our ancient understanding of,
our humanity is more amazing and mysterious than we ever knew.
And I don't have all the answers figured out,
but I can tell you that the mythical evidence is pretty overwhelming.
Then we could argue about what it means,
but I think it's almost undeniable that this system is in use worldwide.
Hey Dave, the scholars who were naysayers
and came out in favor of Egypt being, you know,
hitting the mark and being the oldest,
they even got the dating of the Sphinx wrong.
It took John Anthony West to notice in Schwalor-Delubic's writing
that there was water erosion around there,
and then they had to revise how old the Sphinx was,
dating back maybe to the age of Leo in precession.
So I mean, the scholars didn't seem to have much of a clue.
And when John Anthony West, you know,
John Anthony West went and got,
he said, I need a, I need a geologist to help me here,
because this thing that Schwalor-Delubic wrote,
so Schwalor-Delubic for those who are listening is saying,
what is that name?
He was a writer in the 50s and 60s who wrote in kind of this one passage,
and the Sphinx was obviously weathered by water,
and then he doesn't really take it up again.
And John Anthony West, the late, great John Anthony West,
saw that passage and said, whoa, this is really significant.
And then he went to Egypt and looked at it himself and said,
yeah, I think Schwalor-Delubic was right here,
but I need a geologist to verify this.
And he brought Robert Shock, a Yale geologist,
a professor at Boston University out there.
And when they published their results,
they were so ridiculed and put down by the scholarly community
who said, where's your evidence of an older civilization
and those sorts of things?
So yeah, I think that's a really important point.
The archeological evidence points in this direction,
and so does the mythological evidence is what I'm saying is this.
And Hamlet's Mill, just so your readers or listeners
don't get the wrong idea, it is not an easy read.
These two professors, Giorgio de Santiana,
you can see their names on the cover there,
and Herta von Decken did not have access.
They wrote this in 1969.
I don't believe they were using HA Ray's outlining system.
So unfortunately, they know something's going on.
They know there's relationships to the stars,
but they don't really have all the celestial vocabulary.
This book got me started wanting to decipher it more deeply
because it's actually a very frustrating book to read.
It says, hey, there's something going on,
but it doesn't necessarily give you a lot of this ancient system,
the vocabulary and the grammar of it are those constellations
in many ways, I would argue.
So if you're not able to match it up with those specific constellations,
the whole code actually comes out from where those constellations are
in these heavenly cycles, precession being one of them,
but these heavenly cycles, those are just the words.
Once you can read the words, then you have to say,
okay, what are they talking about?
Well, I would argue they're talking about the heavenly cycles
and they're relating those to our cycle.
When Adam and Eve get thrown down from the heavens,
that's a myth picture of what happens to us when we come into this world.
We come from the spirit world and we get enclosed in coats of skin.
That's a reference to, after they realize they're naked,
God says, we'll make some coats of skin for them.
They're cast out of paradise, out of the spirit realm, into the physical realm.
That's where we are right now.
We're going through the lower realm.
It's trying to tell us this is where you came from, the spirit realm.
So don't forget where you came from and don't treat people as though they're just a physical body.
Every single person you meet has an infinite side to them and so do you.
That's beautiful.
That is really beautiful.
Tremendous, just tremendous.
Wow, wow.
Yeah, I'm trying to get back out to the camera part here.
What do I have to do to unshare my thing and go back to seeing you guys?
You can go to the bottom right.
There should be like a double square option and if you click the share screen button that you clicked originally,
it'll unshare and we'll be back to the main unless you're going to share something else.
Oh yeah, well there's lots more, but I guess are we coming up on two hours already?
Yeah, we're about 12 minutes away, huh Derek?
We are coming up on that.
Yeah, we've got a few more minutes if you want to still talk about some of how this stuff...
Let's back up for a second because I told Luther before we started this thing that we would end up wanting to hear you talk about the Bible
and obviously there's no escaping with your knowledge going elsewhere
because I told him we could talk about the Bible and the constellations,
but as soon as he thinks about Samson, he's going to go, oh yeah,
and by the way this is so-and-so from this myth and this is so-and-so
and I love that about you because your wealth of knowledge is also opening the mind and saying,
alright, it's not just this book.
Can you go into a few...
We can do another show where we go specifically if you'd like into some details and stuff,
but give us some of your favorite stories.
We want to hear from your heart some of your favorite constellations,
how these stories, you know, give us something deep.
I know you can come from the heart on some of this.
Great, okay.
Well, I appreciate that.
Yeah, so as we...
So I think I've established, at least for many listeners,
that the stories are based on the stars.
So then we get to the question of, well, what does it mean?
Why is that helpful for my life?
How does that help us?
We're down here in this physical world.
So like I said, let me just show this.
You have Stellarium up here.
Am I still sharing my screen?
I think I am.
You can probably both see.
So this is that app, Stellarium.
It's a wonderful app if you want to have a planetarium in your computer.
This is the stars.
This is the bad outlines.
This is the modern outlines.
Let me go...
The nice thing about Stellarium is you can go here and pull up...
It's an open source app.
That means people who know how to code can make improvements to it.
You can always put in all these other systems,
and someone's gone in and put in H.A. Ray.
So I can change all the outlines to H.A. Ray.
But let's just watch those stars just a little bit.
I'm going to start them moving across the sky.
We'll move them a little bit faster.
There they go.
Hopefully, I don't see that.
Now slow them down a little bit.
So we were talking about why would all the stars around the world...
be based on the stars?
Or you were saying,
I can't really help going to the other ones.
I think it's so important that they're all connected
because that really unites us.
But first of all, some people have said,
hey, it seems obvious we all can see the stars from anywhere in the world.
And I would come back and say,
it isn't really obvious that every myth around the world
should be based on the stars when you think about it.
You might say, well, some cultures might do that,
but would every single culture base their sacred stories on the stars
unless there's something else going on?
Some cultures might be more attuned.
But if some people say, yes, they're all based on the stars,
and that could have arisen coincidentally or coincidentally
without any connection.
The specifics...
I didn't get into too many of them,
but I have in some videos and some of my writings.
The specific parallels between the myths from cultures
that are not supposed to be connected in any way.
I mentioned briefly the Maui story.
There are connections between the Maui story
and the myth of Solomon's judgment.
That's one of my favorites.
I'll breeze through a few of my favorites.
But let me just talk about what I believe is going on.
I believe that this system is esoteric.
Esoteric...
Let me just briefly talk about esoteric,
because sometimes, like the word myth that you brought up earlier,
Luther, which is sometimes used to mean a lie,
esoteric can sometimes be used to mean stuff that is hidden from you on purpose.
And I think it was...
I've heard that Aristotle said...
I haven't actually found where Aristotle says this,
but I've read that Aristotle somewhere says...
and maybe I'm mistaking it, maybe it's a different philosopher,
but Aristotle, I believe, is who this is attributed to,
says esoteric means you learn it before you understand it.
And a good example of that from popular culture
is Mr. Miyagi teaching Danielson.
Danielson learns the motions before he knows what they mean,
before he understands what they mean.
There are other examples that you could use,
like the Montessori method I've written.
I've even made some videos about how Montessori
teaches these advanced concepts like...
it's a teaching method that was invented by Maria Montessori
in the early 1900s,
but it teaches advanced mathematical concepts
like a polynomial using physical things,
and then later the student learns what it is and says,
oh, that's what it means.
Well, I think that these ancient sages,
whoever they were, these ancient wise men and women,
or maybe they had inspiration from the gods
or from some other realm, I don't know,
but they are using these pictures
to illustrate spiritual truths about the infinite realm.
And when you think about it,
what is better to represent the infinite realm to picture?
If we can't see this invisible realm,
because it's invisible, it's infinite, it's the realm of the gods,
how do we understand it?
Well, it's like Danielson had to learn karate,
but Mr. Miyagi had to give it to him
with something that he could grasp first.
So they're using the motions of these stars
that rise up in the east and go down into the west
to picture our cycles of the spirit,
the spirit realm, the infinite realm,
up there in the heavens, descends down into the earth.
If you look towards the right of the screen,
you'll see that the stars are moving down from heaven
out of the spirit realm down into the physical realm.
They're being encased in earth and water.
What were Adam and Eve made out of?
Or Adam, at least, was made out of clay.
Clay.
The lower elements of earth and water.
That's where the stars are up in the realm of fire and spirit and air.
And they're coming down into,
they're either sinking into a horizon that's made out of earth.
If you're looking somewhere and there's land,
or if you're looking out into the Pacific Ocean to your west
from California, you'll see them sink down into water.
But they're sinking down into the lower elements of earth and water.
That represents us.
That represents the divine spark from the spirit realm
being encased in a body of the lower elements,
earth and water.
That's what we're in right now.
But it's telling us that's where you came from.
You came from and that's where you'll return to
and then maybe you'll come back down here again in another incarnation.
I don't know.
So in Thessalonians, when it talks about a meeting in the air,
that's kind of a reversal of the process.
Now we're getting some of the heavenly elements in there, would you say?
Yeah, and actually, yeah, there's even a snatching up, right?
Which the Greek word is rapture.
And there's actually specific constellations that I believe are snatched up.
That I talk about a little bit in some videos about the revelation.
But yes, so we're not supposed to just wallow around down here in the mud.
We're supposed to be elevating our spirit, right?
We're supposed to be rising back up, elevating back up and integrating,
reintegrating ourselves with our spiritual nature.
We're not supposed, we have two natures.
We've got a physical nature and we need to be getting in touch with our spiritual nature,
our higher self.
And so that's what I think a lot of these myths are teaching us.
There is, it's not just a fantasy, oh my invisible friend.
No, we actually do get messages from our higher self, you know, like this.
I think probably everybody's had that experience where you just, you didn't know something
and then you woke up the next morning and you knew it.
Or you got this intuition that you should do something and you're like, wow,
I wonder where that came from.
And we want to become more integrated with our higher self.
So that's where I want to go and kind of the closing when you ask about some of my favorite myths.
But let me just, what I'm trying to say is this is the grand scheme I think is that it is,
it's esoteric, it's teaching us something kind of like Mr. Miyagi is teaching Danielson
about something we don't, we can't see the invisible realm,
but we can see the infinite realm in the infinite heavens.
This is the serpent that I was talking about.
This is, this is the constellation Hydra, the serpent.
It's this long serpent.
That's the one that goes down and eats the dirt, gets cast out of the heaven first,
see him going down to eat the dust there.
Can you see the head of the serpent?
Yes.
He's the first one, he's the first one that's cast out of the, the garden,
the heavens out of paradise.
This is paradise up here.
And he's cast out first.
Then right behind him is the woman.
That's Virgo right there.
She's the one who reaches out her hand to take the fruit.
See how she's reaching out her hand.
You can see her outstretched arm.
And then Bootes, I believe that's probably her husband right there above her, right there.
There's actually some paintings that show Adam and Eve very much in the outline of Bootes and Virgo.
But, so let me minimize this again and go to, just, I think I'll leave,
let me leave our listeners with a couple of my favorites in the,
the ones that I had set up for you do come from the Bible.
Really, my favorite is the Odyssey.
That's, I love the Odyssey of Homer with Odysseus.
But let me go back to that.
Let me go back to that I had here.
Let me talk real briefly about a couple of kings.
So, so Alvin Boyd-Kuhn says these stories are not about ancient heroes,
ancient kings, ancient queens, ancient princesses.
They're really about us, but they're showing us how we could be good and bad.
You know, they're giving us positive examples and negative examples, just like the movies do, right?
This is actually a painting from the 1300s of King Solomon.
Solomon is obviously the wisest.
So he's going to be an example of how we're supposed to be, what we're supposed to be doing.
And there's, oh, I'm not in the presentation.
Hold on, let me get to the presentation view.
Here we go.
So there's a, there's a passage in, well, I didn't write it down,
but I believe it's First Kings chapter three.
Oh, it's probably Second Kings.
Sorry, Second Kings chapter three, because of course First Kings is mostly David, his father.
So Solomon is descended from David.
He's a constellation, I would argue, but there is a passage where he is approached by God and God says,
ask what you want.
What do you want Solomon?
Ask anything.
And we know this is in Second Kings three.
I'm pretty sure we know that he asked for wisdom that he may judge God's people.
Exactly.
Not just wisdom, but wisdom to help others.
Right.
You are right.
He needs wisdom.
He says, I am in a very difficult job.
I need wisdom.
People are relying on me.
I need to have judgment.
They come to me and I am feel like a little child.
Well, this is, I believe, not just about some ancient person who was wiser than we'll ever possibly be.
I mean, he is a, he's a figure who is the wisest to ever live.
But if we just see it as, well, that was great for him, but I don't have any wisdom.
This is what we're supposed to be trying to get.
And God actually says to him afterwards, you know, I'm really pleased with your decision because you asked for wisdom.
You could have asked for long life.
You could have asked for riches.
You could have even asked for the life of your enemies, but you asked for wisdom.
I believe that this ancient knowledge, I compared it earlier to like a kung fu.
It can be used for all of those things.
It can be used to harm others.
I mean, the spiritual realm, the supernatural realm, there is, you know, a possibility that this power can be used to harm others.
But that's not what we're supposed to use it for.
Some people do use it for that, but we're supposed to be using it to gain wisdom to help others.
And so God was pleased with that.
And then immediately after that passage in, I believe it's 2 Kings chapter 3, hopefully I'm not misquoting the address.
But if people go somewhere in 2 Kings, I'm pretty sure it's chapter 3.
Right after he asked for wisdom, God says, I will give you wisdom.
I'll give you a wise and understanding heart, he says.
And then right after that is the judgment of Solomon.
Well, I think it's one of my favorite passages because it shows us how we're supposed to have judgment and how we're supposed to choose blessing over cursing life.
We're supposed to try and give life, not death.
There's these two mothers and actually two harlots who have had two children about the same time.
They both got pregnant about the same time, had two children and one of them overlaid the baby in the night.
We don't know which one, but they come to the king because the mother says, oh, this woman switched babies with me.
She gave me the dead one and the other one says, no, no, no, she overlaid the baby.
And so Solomon has this terrible dilemma.
How is he going to choose?
And he says, I know, cut the baby in half.
We'll give it to each mother.
And one mother says, yes, do that.
And the other one says, no, no, no, no, give the baby to her.
I don't care.
Don't cut him in half.
Just give it to her.
And Solomon says, aha, no, give it to her because that's obviously the mother.
The one who says cut it in half is obviously so delirious.
Her baby must have died and now she wants someone else's baby to die.
In fact, it doesn't even make sense really because she was trying to get the baby,
but she's become so overcome with hate and cursing, she's trying to bring down the other person.
So this whole scene, I believe, can be shown to be celestial.
Here's that same part of the sky again.
Remember how I said that Hercules sometimes can be connected to the northern crown?
We saw that with the Heracles grasping that crest.
That's the baby.
Now, you wouldn't probably look at the northern crown and say, oh yeah, it looks like a baby because it doesn't.
It looks like a necklace.
It looks like a crown.
That's why it's called the northern crown.
It does not look like a baby, but in so many myths,
a Hercules figure will be snatching up a baby that represents the northern crown, including the Maui myth,
which is very far away from where Solomon's story comes from.
Maui, when he was thrown into the sea foam, like I said, he's snatched up by his powerful grandfather,
whose name is Tamanui Tehra, and Tamanui Tehra snatches up baby Maui and hangs him up over the fire to dry out.
Well, that's the same snatching up of the baby.
So let me show you.
Notice how the baby is always, look at the swordsman in this picture.
See how he has his sword over his head, just like the constellation Hercules.
And look at the baby, how he's arching.
See the arch of the baby?
Yes, yes.
No, that is awesome.
Here's another painter.
Right, right.
So this one's from the 1600s.
Last one I was showing you was actually by a famous painter named Raphael.
Raphael was in the late 1500s, early 1600s.
This is another painter named Rubens, who was in later 1600s.
But look at that baby.
See him arching?
Yes.
Yeah.
The leg, the leg to the back, that's the U.
That's the R.
And you see how the swordsman is in the same position as the constellation Hercules again.
In fact, even the arms of the mother, so one mother has her outstretched arm.
See that?
That's a Virgo symbol.
Here's one more.
See the swordsman again, he's a Hercules swordsman.
His sword is over his back and the baby again, strongly arching.
You see that?
Yes.
Wow.
So now let's go back to our northern crown.
Oops.
See, this is the swordsman.
I would argue that Solomon is Ophiuchus again.
Solomon sits between the two pillars, right?
Two pillars of the temple.
Solomon is very wise and he is judging, but he's not the one who holds up the baby.
When I was a child hearing this story, I always thought it was Solomon who held the baby up with his sword,
but you can see from the text that he's telling someone, hold up the baby.
Okay.
I believe that the two mothers in this story, one is Virgo, one is probably Sagittarius again,
and I'll just finish with this.
There's lots more we can talk about, but this kind of speaks to the code,
or once you understand the code, how it works.
See, Virgo is here on the, this is a zodiac wheel.
It's just a way of depicting the constellations throughout the year.
I could show it with that planetarium as well.
But as we move around the sun, the sun will move through the heavens.
We'll see a different background of stars at different times of the year.
Well, the sun will move through Virgo just before it plunges down into the lower half of the year.
Now we're recording this in November.
It's very dark by five o'clock, you know, in California where I live.
But in the summer, it's not dark until like 930 at night.
That's the upper half of the year.
That's the summer months.
This is the top of the year, the summer solstice.
But as we continue around, we descend down into the lower half of the year.
There's this crossing point where the day and night is equal.
That's the equinox.
We pass through Virgo right before we plunged down into the lower half of the year.
That, I would argue, is, and this comes from Alvin Boyd-Cune as well.
That's the lower half of the year.
That's where we are in the body.
That's where we have our first birth.
That's representative of our first birth coming down into the lower realm.
But we're supposed to have a second birth where we start to awaken to the fact that we're a spiritual being,
where we start to become more integrated with our higher self, start to listen to our higher self who wants to help us,
and become connected with the higher self.
That's the second birth.
That's down here at the turning point.
We go down, down, down, down as we're here in this body, you know, in the mud, like I said.
But we start to realize, wait a minute, it's like the prodigal son realizes, wait a minute.
What am I doing eating here out of this pig trough?
I'm actually meant for something more than this.
And you start to wake up.
That's the second birth.
And it happens down here at this turning point where the year starts to turn back upwards right there at Sagittarius.
So Sagittarius is a place of rebirth.
So I think what's happening in this story is two babies, a live baby and a dead baby, a northern crown, southern crown.
The two mothers, this is actually the second birth.
That's our spiritual birth.
This is the mother where we are born into our body of death, as Paul calls it, right, in the New Testament.
Paul, I think, is totally Gnostic, knew all this stuff.
Why don't you just say it, David?
Why don't you just say it, bro?
So the first mother, that's our cursing.
That's like, you know, we come down into this body and we curse.
We, you know, try and bring ourselves down and bring others down.
Cursing means like reducing to the physical.
All our curse words are about physical things.
They're either, you know, talking about bodily functions or calling someone a name that has to do with their physical body or their, you know, trying to reduce them to, hey, you're nothing more than just your physical aspect.
But blessing means raising up the spirit.
So I think these two mothers are, one's a blessing mother, one's a cursing mother.
It's not about two women who came before Solomon.
It's about, actually, we're all in this condition.
We all can be the blessing mother or the cursing mother because we have a physical body.
We're all born into this, you know, under the curse.
It says that a lot in the New Testament, but we're supposed to be blessing.
We're supposed to be, that means raising up the spirit of ourselves and of others.
So, and I think it's really actually more than just, I mean, that is like a lifelong work because it's very hard to do this.
And it has to do with elevating and listening to that higher self, you know, disciplines like meditation and yoga.
And playing a musical instrument or doing martial arts can help us to do that.
But it's, we should be doing it in order to help others to bless and not to curse.
Those are some of the things that I think are tied up in this.
So, I mean, there's lots more, but how's that for a story to end on?
Never better. Never better. I'm totally blown away. How about you, Derek?
He's probably got his mute button on. I'm trying to go back to it.
That was edifying. That was edifying. That was powerful.
Let's put it like this. We have to do this again, brother.
I mean, I'm not even kidding you. Like, I really, really, really think this would be great if you'd be willing.
If you have the time, of course, we'll try and schedule proper time.
But I would like to do a series with you in dealing with this and just going on into the stars.
And because, you know, when me and Luther came to this research, we came from a historical background.
And I've had these talks with Luther recently.
And, you know, wherever the evidence goes, I'm going to go.
It doesn't matter who. I don't care what man thinks. I'm going where it leads.
And the historical evidence, looking at the biblical account, there's a movement called preterism,
me and Luther affiliated with, or very familiar with, were definitely oddballs in this whole thing.
But it's the concept that everything that is predicted in the New Testament had its fulfillment in the first century
or within time span of the Gospels.
You can prove this by time statements and such.
So for the longest time, we're scratching our heads going, well, this stuff already happened.
All right. And we can't prove historically a lot of it, but like the destruction of the temple and stuff like that.
Well, now that we've gotten so deep, I mean, we've gone way further than we were.
We're seeing a cyclical situation.
And yeah, it may have been fulfilled, at least the constellational and the age-related material being that we're talking precession.
It was fulfilled, but we're in a whole other age.
This thing never ends. And this is why it's so beautiful what you're bringing to the table, because the historical angle,
if you take it in the logical conclusion for preterism, is it ends at 70 A.D. with the destruction of the temple.
That is the end of the age. Jesus said, it'll be with you till the end of the age.
And that's it. And oh, gosh, there's no more.
But when you see that there's not only Jesus, there's Hercules, there's, you know, Serapis,
Osiris. I mean, you can go on and on. You're stuck with this.
You have no choice but to go, okay, okay, something else is going on.
This is much bigger than what I once thought.
And now, how do I apply these principles to my soul, to my being?
How do I love my wife and my children in a way that they've never thought their dad could?
I was so caught up on the story and going, like you said, Solomon was smart, but I'll never be that smart.
Man, I feel like we're pretty smart.
I mean, if we're going to, you know, I feel like we're pretty, you know, we make wise moves here in this life.
But I'm rambling. I don't mean to hog the mic.
You want to add to that, Luther? And then we could start getting to a close, like closing.
Just a little bit, Derek. And what we see happening is the historical passing into the esoteric
and the esoteric passing into the mystical, because ultimately we've got a layhold of that mystical relationship,
that application where once we learn the language and Dave, you're all about learning the language.
And once that is mastered, you know, your whole point is it's going to help us to navigate spiritual territory in a way that's right for us.
So it's, it's, it's empowering as never before.
I don't know anybody who's taken this kind of approach to astrotheology.
No, it's, it's, it's marvelous. I just don't have enough I can say.
Well, I appreciate that. I will say that I'm certainly not the first to see that there are connections between the myths and the stars.
This goes back to even the ancient times.
There were philosophers who hinted at it. Hamlet's Mill talks about some of that.
And there was a pastor in the 1700s named Robert Taylor, who wrote The Devil's Pulpit.
And, you know, I certainly take a different tack than maybe some, you know, I think Hamlet's Mill may have reached different conclusions than I would reach.
And Robert Taylor, I think probably reached different conclusions than I would reach.
And maybe, you know, not to disagree with the hosts on the show, you might reach different conclusions.
I'm not so sure that the sacking of the temple, you know, that, that whole history, certainly super important.
I know you guys have Joseph Atwell on. That's a whole other can of worms we could talk about.
I wouldn't say, you know, just so that listeners don't get the wrong idea, I'm not in the preterist eschatology camp.
I'm in the completely esoteric camp, but I totally agree with you that this is for us.
Solomon gets that wisdom from the infinite, right?
He doesn't. He's not wise by himself. We're not for us to, you know, we can, I think we're given all these different kings,
both wise and foolish kings to look at as examples.
You know, King Midas is another one I was going to bring up, but we don't have time, but he was given actually a choice.
Hey, what would you like Midas? Just like Solomon and Midas, we all know, chose, I want gold.
I want more gold. I want to turn everything to gold.
And guess what? You can't eat and you can't drink and you turn your children into a statue.
So all the things that you need for life, right?
You need food and water and you need children to perpetuate the species.
If we only pursue gold, that's the wrong choice.
And so there's there's many judgments.
The judgment of Paris was getting Paris started the Trojan War by making the wrong choice.
Also, he chose, I want the most beautiful woman in the world.
Well, she happened to already be married and that started the whole Trojan War.
So these these these patterns are found around the world in these different myths.
And they're given to us to say, hey, you you're not Solomon, but you can have access to that wisdom.
But it doesn't come from you.
It comes from that realm, that infinite realm.
So you got to get tuned into it.
And I think we have all these ancient tools and guides that were given us these ancient original instructions that were given to everybody.
Every culture has them.
And if we start to listen to them, you know, I don't hold myself up as a guru or a teacher.
I always say, go go to the myths.
Once you learn how to listen to them, that's where the answers will be for you right there.
So thanks so much for having me on.
I'd certainly be happy to come back and and we can talk about other things.
Oh, David, this has been a show of shows, right, Derek?
Unbelievable.
Yeah.
Wow.
Wow.
This is beautiful.
David, if you're a gracious gracious host, if you don't mind real quick before we go, can you give give our audience?
How?
What website do they need to go to?
We know your books.
And if you look up his book, guys, gals, make sure you search David Warner, Madison, because there are different David Madison.
So and that's M-A-T-H-I-S-E-N, correct?
Yeah.
If you just search, really, if you just search for my name and stars, it'll generate lots of results for you on any search engine.
But my main website, I've created a few over the years that are still out there in the web.
But the main one is Star Myth World that Luther said at the beginning of the show, starmythworld.com.
And from there, there's links or is a little menu that has videos.
You can go look at videos that I've made.
There's a podcast link where you can listen to other podcasts.
And I'll put this one up there too when we're done.
There's books and you can see sample content from each of the books by going there.
And there's the blog.
And so the blog has over a thousand, you know, it's almost, I think up to 1100, almost posts.
So it's been going for many years.
And you can see kind of the evolution of my thought.
It's not always the same.
Hopefully nobody's upset that my views have changed over the past eight years that I've been writing the blog.
Because I've been learning more and I'll continue to learn.
I mean, that shows honesty.
That shows that's what me and Luther have been doing.
I mean, at the end of the day, let's call it like it is.
This evidence might flip us on our head.
I mean, you just never know where we might end up in a year or two from now in terms of what we think.
I mean, you brought up some things at the end that I feel like is a to be continued cliffhanger.
I want to talk about the temple and maybe we could go into maybe some ideas sometime.
But yeah, the Undying Stars, check it out.
That book talks a little touches on that whole story there.
Undying Stars.
That was 2014.
I wrote that one in 2014.
It's a good one.
So I just got a personal revelation and we have three more hours for this show to continue.
What do you know?
I think my family loves me.
Thank you.
Thanks a lot, guys.
I really appreciate it.
Thank you.
Please come back, please.
Thank you, David, from the bottom of our hearts.
You're terrific.
My pleasure, Luther.
Great to talk with you.
You have a good one.
Thank you, guys.
Thank you, Luther.
Good night.
Luther.
Yeah, Derek.
So what do we do, brother?
I mean, this is unbelievable.
This is great.
I'm glad we had David Matheson on the show.
Ladies and gentlemen, you see where this is going.
If you just get the slightest glimpse, this is the material that we're trying to bring out there.
We want people to see how this is life changing.
We don't always agree with everything our guests bring on.
In fact, sometimes we'll disagree a lot, but they always bring nuggets.
They always bring something to think about, and it's always good for us to think these things out.
Me and Luther are on this adventure together, on this journey we call life.
We met each other under amazing circumstances through research and a passion for truth.
And we want this show to go on.
But just like your bills at home, you got lights you got to pay for.
You have things you have to pay for.
And if you're able to help with any financial helps in any way, shape, or form,
we're going to leave our links to our PayPal links down in the description.
We'll have one for the show in general, one for Luther if you want to help Luther
contribute to his personal help, and mine too.
Also, he has a Patreon account.
We want you guys to maybe help out, and that way you can see Luther's information.
Luther's going to be putting forth articles.
He's going to be writing on these topics and a variety of others, because we're just talking about myths.
We haven't got into gematria.
We haven't got into languages and understanding the names.
We haven't understood a lot of how this stuff is really complex.
And Luther does that, man, and you are awesome.
I mean, you really are awesome, brother.
I appreciate having you on the show.
Well, you are Derek.
We explore this together, and you give me half my ideas in the middle of the night.
I say, what did he say?
And there's my hook.
We bounce off each other, bro.
That's right, brother.
We want to keep this thing going.
The water boys, only we're bringing this stuff like this.
So I've had a lot of compliments from people who've suggested the place that we're coming at from the heart.
We keep it where we're being truthful and from the heart, and that's our goal.
If you guys are able to help contribute, if you want to see Luther's information and what he's bringing out,
I think it's a dollar a month or something to that effect.
Maybe it's two.
I think so.
Something like that, just to see your articles every time you publish.
Check out David Matheson's stuff, check out Luther's stuff.
Obviously, you know me.
I just want to host the show and I go to work, and who knows, something might come of this in the future.
But help us out if you can.
If you're able, if you're not able, please focus on what is most important.
That's your family and what you have in front of you.
But if you're able to help us out, we're trying to better this thing and put this thing on the map
because we think that this information is probably the most valuable information pertaining to researching ancient societies
and how that affects our history of who we are, what we come from, who our ancestors were, what they thought.
And that's me rambling there, Luther.
You got anything else you'd like to add?
Oh, no, it's time to sign off, Derek.
I think it's all been said.
We just got to have more great guests, world-class guests like David Warner Matheson on again.
Can't wait till the next show.
Yes, I can't wait either, brother.
Well, thanks, y'all, for checking out the Water Boys, Dr. Luther G. Williams and Derek Lambert.
Signing off.
