We are live, MythVision podcast. Welcome back. I'm your host, Derek Lambert. Ladies and gentlemen,
holidays are coming, and I have a special treat. Dr. James D. Tabor has joined us today. How are
you, my friend? Good to see you, Derek. It's been a while, so we're going to talk about a lot of
things. But mainly, Messiah is my favorite subject, of course. I knew it would be. In fact,
when we were on tour last year in Israel, there was so much information that you were giving. I was
just like, wow, there's a lot here to learn from you, and I'm hoping that people today can have fun
doing that as well. Real quick, I got to do the shameless plugs to get them out of the way.
Let me give this plug. Guess what, Derek? You've read this book, also sent to Paradise.
Did you know, and I might be the only one in the world who's suggested this,
that Paul thought he was one of the Messiahs? So, ask me about that later. There's a whole chapter
in this book on it. You're one of the first scholars. Do you remember that? Do you remember what I
argue? But we'll get into it. Yeah, yeah, yeah. You're one of the first scholars I've ever made
that statement about Paul that I had ever read, right? Because I haven't read far and wide. I'm
sure there's others who've mentioned that there's something going on there, but you really highlighted
that for me. I've never heard of that. So, shameless plugs to knock those out here real quick.
We've got Dr. James Tabor's YouTube channel. You got something you're working on right now
that's not public yet? Yeah, it's a series. You see that number 22? Yes, sir. Because of the war,
partly in Israel today, I decided to shape it more with our own time, not just all through history,
although I've done all through history. And so, number 23 that I just recorded today,
I take John Hagee. Does that name ring a bell with you? Yes. Big evangelical prophecy guy,
probably the biggest since Hal Lindsey. He has Cornerstone Church in San Antonio, Texas,
20,000 people attending on a Sunday in about 10 services. I don't know how he gets them all in.
And so, I took his interview about his latest prophecy book and clipped parts of it,
and I go through and basically deconstruct it. And I haven't titled it yet, but I'm going to call it,
I think, the fatal flaw of evangelical Christian expectations, because I'm not going to tell you
what the fatal flaw is, but there is one. Wow. Subscribe to the YouTube channel. That'll be
by tonight, I think. I've got to edit it real quick. That's exciting. Yeah, get me over 50,000.
I don't know if a bell rings or what, but I'd like to get that number. I know, right? Hit it. Hit the
bell. Also, we're going to be talking about something today on the size and the time of Jesus,
but also a little before that, specifically the course that we did, Jesus and the Dead Sea Scrolls,
what you did on MVP courses. This is an interesting angle that I know people have tried to tackle in
the past, usually evangelicals in many ways, try to, I don't know, make a lot of these connections
or try to act like this is contemporaneous to Jesus, but you're pointing out this stuff happened
before Jesus and might even be the four runners, the inspiration behind the Jesus that we're seeing,
this messianic figure that we have kind of a shadow of in the biblical text of the New Testament,
and a lot of the things that the Essene or the Qumran community, depending on, because I know
that that's debated as well amongst academics, there's so much that highlights in the New Testament
that we see there as well. So, sign up for the course. I will say this. We're really talking
without Ryan knowing exactly or giving us the exact rundown, but Black Friday is here, and let's just
say there's going to be a special here for everybody who's helped support giving a discount
for everybody who's interested in taking some of the courses. I'll leave that to you guys. You
guys do the pricing and, you know, whatever you think is right, because you have a bunch of courses,
not just mine. Yes, yes. Yeah, and on that course, just we're going to talk about it in detail,
the messianic part of it, but the thing that people forget, the Dead Sea Scrolls date to about 100 to
150 years before Jesus. Like if you take their main charter, we call it the community rule,
and in the course, we literally go through all of it line by line. That definitely dates to the BCE
period, so 100 years before Jesus, maybe a little more, but it doesn't mention the teacher yet,
so it's even earlier probably, but here's what people tend to forget. The movement goes down
through Jesus' time. John the Baptist, Jesus, James even, and they don't leave Qumran. This is
based on the archaeology until 70 AD, or CE, when the Romans destroyed Jerusalem. Then they head down
to Jericho, 19 miles to the tip of the Dead Sea. They wipe out Qumran, and most of us, you know,
we don't know, but most of us that work on this, have supposed that maybe that's when they had
the scrolls, assuming they hid the scrolls. Some people say, oh, it's a Geniza, you know,
where you store old manuscripts that are worn out, but they weren't worn out. Like the Isaiah scroll
is perfect. You can read it today. It wasn't worn out. I think it was their treasure trove of their
historic archives, imagine, but they exist, is my point, all the way down to the first century.
So they're going to have to react to other figures coming along that is not their guy,
because their guy, we call him the Teacher of Righteousness. We don't know his name.
He's gone by the time of Jesus. You know, he's been dead quite a few years, probably 100 years.
So if I were to date him, I'd put him 75 BCE. I kind of go with Michael. Why is on that?
We cover that in the course. And so, but think about that, because that would mean
that even though we go to, you know, Jesus and early Christianity and so forth,
it's not as though those people disappeared. Our main source for the Essians, if you're
going to use that term to describe them, that's what Josephus uses. He is talking about this group,
I think. He writes that, you know, definitely, you know, he was born base. No, I'm forgetting
when he was born. I'm slipping. Do you remember? It was around 50. Yeah, not off the top. Exactly.
I feel bad for not knowing that off the top of my head. I usually know it, but he was born around
50 or so, because he's in his 20s, I know, when he's general in the Jewish war, which breaks out
in 66. It says 37 AD. Yeah, 37. I'm sorry. I don't know why I said 50. I just wanted to make sure.
Too bad we're doing live. You could, you could make me smarter than I am.
Trust me, we're all human, James. And 37. Oh, let me, let me change that. He flourished
into the 50s and 60s. How about that? We don't have to do his birth. But the point is, here he is
talking about the Essians and he writes his Jewish war in 75, looking back on it all. So,
we always have to keep that in mind that they're aware of Herod and the different things that
happened in the first century, as well as going back to their founding. So, we cover that in the
Course, of course. Well, I definitely enjoyed learning things I'd never explored pertaining to
the Teacher of Righteousness and the Dead Sea Scrolls in the Course as well. And one of the
hot topics that I find, you're going to be doing the Zoom call this, oh, by the way, just to give
a shout out to the Super Chatter here, Josephus Zeno. Zeno, thank you so much. Thanks for the
great information, gentlemen. Hey, and I even messed up his birthday. Is he like Josephus
returned, right? Or he follows Zeno? Yeah, right. Sorry, Josephus. He's a Josephus that follows Zeno.
Right? Yeah, okay. I wanted to ask you because I know you did a, you did a pretty popular
video over there on Paul Gia's channel. And there is this tension in the academic community on
New Testament studies pertaining to the idea and model surrounding Jesus' death and what they did
with Him after He died. So, there's a group that oftentimes will say cognitive dissonance explains
once Jesus dies, they have to rationalize. And then they explain everything after He's dead,
making Him this guy who is aiming to die on purpose or potentially actually going and dying.
But then there's like the people like, I think Jason Staples and others who say,
this guy, this historical guy, actually went on a mission potentially to die or in hopes that God
would come in and intercede through the suffering model. And I imagine you're going to get into
this Sunday on the Zoom call? Yeah. And what I've decided to do with the Zoom call, we already had
one last month. We do it like the last Sunday of the month, usually. So, coming up this Sunday.
And by the way, anyone who signs up for the course through Saturday night,
so if somebody did take advantage of this Black Friday special, you can join us still on Sunday.
And if you think, well, I haven't even started the course, it doesn't matter.
Because what I've decided to do on the Zoom calls, I'm going to do Q&A like I always do.
And I like to have people, this is not a webinar, everybody's on the screen and people are gathered
round. But I also want to do a topic each month. And the topic I've picked, just because there's a
lot of interest in it, you see the lightning flash on my wall there? You got thunderstorms?
Yeah. So, if I lose, everybody will reschedule this, maybe. But so far, it's okay. I don't know
why it's doing that. Anyway. If you have a metamorphosis right in front of our eyes,
you know, skeptics... That's actually from something else. I'm trying to figure why it's
doing that. There. Right. No.
Am I still here? No, I'm still here. I'm just... I heard thunder, but that flashing was
something else. Anyway. Okay. No, there it goes again. So, I don't know what it is.
Well, we see you and hear you fine. I know. But can you see that white on my wall going,
you can't see them? Maybe it's just me then. Yeah, I don't know. Yeah, it looks like the
light's going off and on, which it isn't. Can you hear the thunder? No. No. It might be subtle,
but it's not. Yeah. So, anyway, what I was going to say is I want to do a topic. And the topic,
I think, I want to do... I wasn't aware that Jason Staples has this idea. But by far, if you take,
you know, critical biblical scholars, Bart calls them real scholars, you know, how he'll often say
if somebody has an idea. Is he a real... Is she a real scholar? Yeah. What he means is, you know,
you have a PhD, you walk in SBL circles, you present papers, you publish scholarly articles,
and so forth. As you're not just some fringe person that might have a bogus PhD or something.
So, yeah, I'm a real scholar. I got a Chicago PhD with Jonathan Smith. That qualifies me.
But I'm one of the rare ones. And like I said, I didn't know Jason thought this, but Jason's
a smart guy. So, I could see why I would think it if he does. I think Jesus anticipated his death
and he got it by finding himself in the text of scriptures. Now, how would I possibly prove that?
Well, what can you prove in terms of the ancient world? You don't prove it. But what would be something
in favor of that that one could argue? And the answer is the Dead Sea Scrolls. Because in the
Dead Sea Scrolls, we have a collection. It was in the very first cave, cave one, called the
Thanksgiving Hymns, the Haudaiyot. And we go through it in the course. It's one of the things we do
in the course. And we think some of them, and maybe more than I take a minimalist view, that
hymn 10 through 17 are actually written by the teacher himself. So, I think more than that might
be, but you want to kind of be conservative so you can make your case. And what you find as you
look at those is he's very aware of the idea that he is going to go through suffering and that he
is going to be led to the slaughter and BB trade and so forth, as if he's anticipating it and he's
quoting scriptures. And then the group then later, looking back, begins to quote scriptures that he
referred to, like strike the shepherd and the sheep will be scattered. I started to say shattered,
both scattered and shattered. That's from Zachariah and so forth. That is something that's put into
the second edition of another scroll called the Damascus document. Could be losing people with
all the technicalities, but the point would be that as you delve into the scrolls, it looks like
that community might have been studying some of the same prophetic texts. And the dynamic, I call it
the dynamics of messianic self-identity. I've written about this on my blog. There are even
articles. I think we're going to go to my blog in a bit. So, what do I mean by the dynamics of
messianic self-identity? It's like, how does somebody decide I might be the one? In Judaism and in
because it's a textually based messianic hope, you find yourself in these texts. And the alternative
idea, which most hold, I have a minority position here, is that, well, things happen and then the
community in its disappointment goes and tries to find texts that will justify what happened,
even though they didn't expect it. And they go, oh, really, he said that he would die. And he said he
was going to give his life as a ransom for many. When actually there's the possibility that he's
reading Isaiah 53. And even though it is about Israel, generally, as the suffering servant,
there are these individual kinds of elements in the four suffering servant hymns. There are four
suffering servant hymns in Isaiah. But a couple of them take on an individual quality, like a person
is talking to God. And at one point, God even says, oh, you think it's a small thing that I want you
to regather the tribes of Israel? And you go like, well, Israel wouldn't be regathering the tribes of
Israel, right? So it's actually talking about a figure, even though as a whole, the servant in
second Isaiah or third Isaiah, it's actually second Isaiah, most of them. The servant is the
nation of Israel, for sure. But then who is the faithful servant that brings Israel back? So you
get that kind of dynamic. So I'm convinced that it's more likely that Jesus himself, like the
Dead Sea Scroll Leader, is reading those texts and thinking, if I'm the one, then does that mean I'll
have to go about and suffer? And like I said, it could go either way. This is like a double sided
coin. You could say, yeah, but I can make the other argument, of course, again. But you just
have to think, because you'll hear all the time, there's no idea of a Davidic Messiah suffering
anywhere in the Hebrew Bible. And then I'm thinking, oh, really? What about Zachariah,
where Zachariah talks about them looking at the one they've pierced, and then the family of David
mourning for this pierced Messiah one? That's in the book of Zachariah. Now, Christians love that,
they say it's Jesus, right? You remember, they'll look on the one they pierced. It's quoted in the
book of Revelation, I think. Every eye will see him, including those that pierced him. So that's in
the book of Revelation. So the Christians are applying it that way. But the point is, it was
written long before the time of the teacher or even Jesus. And you can see how someone might
appropriate that and reapply it because it's right before the end. It's in Zachariah 12 and 13.
There's a whole section there of prophecy. So you do have a pierced Messiah in Zachariah.
So you have to be open to that possibility. So that's what I'm going to discuss in the
Zoom meeting on Sunday. I've got a little presentation for the students that are studying
the Dead Sea Scrolls. And we'll go through the text and I'll put them up on a screen.
And like I said, it's not a webinar. You don't just listen to me talk. Everybody's around.
And then you can put up your little virtual hand. You know, we use Zoom and you can do your little
hand up and say, I want to ask a question and then I can call on you. And we don't often
cover all the questions, but we save them and we keep rolling. So the Zoom meeting is just great.
We do it extra. You know, it's not part of the course really. We mention it, you know, because
we save the recording and put it in the course for anyone. Yeah, we put it in the course because
you can't know it. You know, I do it on a Sunday at noon Eastern time. And you say, boy, that's kind
of a tough time. I go to church and then I go to, we go out to dinner after that. A lot of
Christians do that. Not trying to exclude the Christians by making it on Sunday. But some
people are home on Sunday. And for me, it's a day that I'm fairly flexible on. But whether you
can make it or not, you can, you get the recording, you know, and you get the benefit. And then you
can email me questions as well. And also I'm in email contact with my students. Like when I write
them, I use a program where I can write them personally, the whole group, and then they can
send questions in. And I've got a whole list of questions. So it kind of builds month to month
because more and more people are taking it, more people are finishing it. When I did this with
the Mark course, Derek, you were in a few of those, I think we did seven or eight, I think we did
eight months of it. I don't know if we'll do that many with the Dead Sea Scroll course. But you know,
the competence level just kept rising because you get a cadre of people that are hearing all
this, even if they can always be present and they're listening and they're following. And it's
like, wow, we're kind of really digging into this stuff. It's not just go take the course and maybe
I'll see you later on another course. I like the idea of being with them. Right. Absolutely. And I
think that people really gravitate to you, they connect with doing these follow ups. And I hope
to see more scholars doing that as well. I wanted to ask you pertaining to the idea of suffering
before we get to any super chats, because we got one here that I think would be interesting, is
this idea of martyrdom, I think of the Maccabees and of course, the literature that developed
around them and how they went out, they were killed and stuff. And it makes me wonder, being
Hellenism had influenced at this time. And there is a lot of Greek idea of martyrdom as well.
I know that a candidate Moss, you know, wrote on the myth of persecution and stuff,
a noble death, suicide and martyrdom among Christians and Jews and antiquity.
And that's Arthur J. Dredge. Is that Dredge? Drog. Oh, snap, co-authored. Uh-oh. Okay,
so take us through, tease us with this James, because
no, we do. We start all the way back with Socrates and even earlier figures. And we do the Hellenistic
martyrdom thing. That book became a classic. I published that, oh my goodness, 92 or 3,
I think. I can't remember when I published it, but you can still get it. It's out of print,
but you can get plenty of copies because Harper published it, so it's out there. But yeah, we do
that. And guess what? We have a chapter on the death of Jesus and we have Paul and we have Masada
and we have the Maccabees, of course. Arthur takes some of them and I take others. It's a
fully co-authored book. You know, we're kind of equal. His name is first alphabetically,
but we work together on it. And it's an important study. And that led me right into some of the
stuff that I've done on Paul, because in Philippians, remember, he talks about, I don't know what to
choose. Whether to depart and be with Christ, sort of like, should I die as a martyr? Right.
Will I remain here? Whatever. Jesus himself, if possible, let this cup pass from me. At
least we get in the Gospel of Mark and the synoptics. So we discuss all of that. And yes,
there is a sort of a model. And the model all has to do really with the title of the book,
a noble death. There's a different kinds of death. But you could call it death by choice.
But death by choice could have ignoble purposes as well. Somebody could be depressed or in despair.
Or somebody could kill themselves. You know, we call it whenever there's one of those horrible
mass shootings, often the person at the end will shoot themselves, right? Kind of like death by
cop, they call it, or they let themselves be shot. I felt like that. We wouldn't call that a noble
death. We would call that kind of a cowardly death, because you weren't able to face what you did.
And therefore you're leaving. But there's also a noble death. So martyr comes from the idea that
you gave a testimony, okay? And that your death was a testimony to something, to the cause that
you died for. So it could be military deaths for a noble cause. You know, we talk about
just and unjust wars and so forth. And we honor our veterans. We honor our slain and
most societies, if, you know, we are convinced that the war was a just cause. So we go through all
that. Now, these messiahs, though, do you have my blog handy? Yes. You know that page I mentioned,
Josephus messiahs, yeah. In the time of Jesus. People can find this. By the way, look at the
right on the screen. And there's my newsletter, too. You can sign up for it's free. Sign up for it.
Yeah. And I protect your emails. Don't worry about, you know, is he going to sell them to Derek or
something? I'm just kidding. Listen, I've got a good price. Okay. Anyway, as you go on through this,
I just went through Josephus. And he refers to groups sometimes. He calls them brigands or
Les Tases, the Greek word, you know, robbers, because he's writing for the Romans. This is mostly
in the Jewish wars you can see. But look at all of them. You know, we could just read the list.
Can you see the list? Yeah, we want me to read them. Yeah, just read them. What the heck? Some of
them, three of them are mentioned in the New Testament. So let's check them off. We got Hezekiahs.
Go ahead. Yeah. Hezekiah, Ezekius defeated by Herod in 47 BCE Jewish war. Of course, I'm not going
to read the sources, but you can go there. I just read the names of the guys. Yeah, Judas, AKA Thudus,
son of Ezekius, four BCE death of Herod. Hey, look, there's a father-son thing. Very important.
Now that's not Judas the Galilean. Everybody gets mixed up. We're going to get to him.
Wow. That's Judas. That's the guy that Herod defeated in order to take over rule. The Romans
were very happy with him. Okay. Simon of Peria, four BCE death of Herod. That's amazing.
Is it Athronges? Yes, the shepherd king. Does that tell you any? I bet he was Davidic.
Yeah, most likely. Judas the Galilean, six CE, Archelaus removed. Now look how many were four
BC. Look at that. Judas, Simon, and Athronges were all four BC. Why? Because Herod the Great
had died vacuum. King of the Jews is dead. Remember, Herod was declared King of the Jews by the Romans.
All of a sudden, three guys crop up in one year. I'm it. I'm the guy. I'm the messiah.
They were all suffering messiahs because they all got killed. Now, did they anticipate their deaths?
I don't know because all we have is the simple description. What's going? Judas, 44 CE,
James and Simon, 46 CE, sons of Judas the Galilean, crucified by Tiberius Alexander,
nephew of Philo, who was a procurator. Isn't that interesting? So you got Judas the Galilean,
had two kids, James and Simon. Wait a minute. Jesus has two brothers, James and Simon.
They're both martyred, right? Remember Simon? Supposedly he was over 100 years old when he got
martyred. This is not them. This is sons of Judas the Galilean. Then you got the Egyptian.
The Egyptian. That's mentioned in the book of Acts. I give the references.
Eleazar, Eleazar, son of Judas the Galilean. Another son of Judas the Galilean. Goodness.
Yep. Then Eleazar, son of Jarrus, Ben Yar, commander of Masada, was of the family of Menachem.
Yeah. Menachem. Anyway, it's just a short little rundown. Here would be the question.
These figures apparently identified themselves in the text. They would, of course, go for the text
of power and glory because that's what the Messiah is supposed to do. What I want to do in the Zoom
meeting is talk about how, excuse me, there are texts that have to do with power and glory,
but also write with them can be the suffering as well. That's what I think might be going on with
Jesus. I'm pretty sure with the teacher, especially if you will grant me that he wrote some of the
Thanksgiving hymns because you have this first person reference to someone who believes he's
going to suffer. Then, Derek, it goes further than that. We have some materials from Cave 4
that we didn't know where to put them. Originally, people thought they might be with the war scroll,
a couple of fragments. I'm going to cover them when I do this thing on Zoom.
Now, we're putting them with the Thanksgiving hymns. Martin Abeg, for example, has argued,
he's one of the great Dead Sea Scroll scholars that I've learned a lot from. He even argues that
the teacher is probably the one that the hymn is referring to. Guess what it says?
I've been exalted to the counsel of the Elohim. I have a seat among the gods.
Now, you study all of this literature all the way back. I know because you've done Enoch stuff and
so forth. You know this is not necessarily some new surprising thing. The idea that you would go
through sufferings, enter into the lower world, and struggle with death, come forth victorious,
and be exalted to heaven, even becoming a God that we can find in the Hellenistic world.
I know your friend Miller works on this. I think Robin does as well. Doesn't she, Faithful? She
works on some of these things. I'm sure she writes on some of the stories and lots of people that
work with Hellenistic literature deal with this. And I don't know that it means Jesus was reading
Homer or something. I would rather think that he's probably immersing himself in some of the prophetic
texts of the Hebrew Bible because that's the kind of thing that gets quoted in the Dead Sea Scrolls
as well. But either way, the idea and the pattern can be very similar because it's almost like Campbell
thought of kind of universal archetypes. The hero struggling with his enemies, suffering,
maybe even being killed, and then overcoming death and triumphing, being triumphant and being exalted
or something like that. It's kind of a natural pattern when you think about it. But I'm not
talking about mystery religions and vegetarian deities or something like that. I'm talking
about martyrdom figures. Even in the Maccabees, do you remember what the martyrs and second Maccabees
say when they're doing these horrible things, cutting their tongues out and frying their body
parts? And I don't want to go over all that. But what do they say? You will die and never come back.
I will be raised from the dead. Now, everybody says, oh, well, that's the general resurrection.
Well, I don't care if it's general resurrection or their resurrection,
they're expressing hope that even if you die, yet shall you live. And so Paul has that same view
that his suffering is going to lead to his glorification. And guess what? He extends it
to the followers, right? What does he say in Romans 8? We will be glorified with him, provided
that we suffer with him. That's exactly what we find in the Dead Sea Scrolls. In the Habakkuk
Peshir, I'm not going to give everything away now, but just to tantalize people, the scroll group is
writing about the teacher and they say, we will be saved by our faith in the teacher and our suffering.
And they realize that this idea of being the righteous community that follows God,
even if it leads to your death. So it's just so interesting to study into.
So I'll take this one moment to say, before we get to super chats, because we wanted to do a quick
hangout here and discuss this and tease people, hoping to get more people to sign up, Black Friday
special, the whole nine, is this idea of suffering, messiahs, and stuff, it's prevalent. It's not
only Hellenistic, it's also Jewish. I think it's been married to Judaism sometime earlier. And so
this tradition can be all within the vein of Judaism and still have a lot in common with that
other side of the coin. But I'd like to get into the super chats here, because one of them actually
gets into this idea, which you just brought up about being exalted. And it's harmonic. My buddy,
Tim, he says, in 11 Q 13 is Melchizedek seen as God incarnate dying for the sins of the people.
And does it have a date prediction landing in the 30 CE? I'm afraid to answer that because he
donated $6.66. I looked up the Wikipedia page just for that specific
Oh, we cover it. We cover it. Don't worry. That's actually covered in the course. And it's also
covered in, I will cover it on Sunday in the Zoom meeting. The problem is the worms,
you know, how the worms go in, the worms go out. This is from Cable 11. It's just a fragment.
It's 11 Q Melch, we call it or 13 Manuscript 13. There weren't many manuscripts in Cable 11.
But there's some missing pieces that do refer to the book of Daniel, which has that phrase about
the Messiah being cut off. And as Harmonic Atheist notes, how do you figure the prediction or the
date? Because it's based on the idea of a final 490 year period. Those who know the Bible remember,
Oh, the 70 weeks prophecy of Daniel. But this group, interestingly enough, says, wait a minute,
a Jubilee is 49 years. So 10 Jubilees would be 490 years. So 70 weeks is also 10 Jubilees.
And they were more stood in counting Jubilees. And we do know when this text is written,
they talk about what's going to happen in the ninth and the 10th Jubilee and even weeks
within the ninth and 10th Jubilee, meaning you're into the final 49 year period.
Now, here's the problem. And this gets to the super chat. Here's my period. And if I start at,
say, with Pompey, who goes into Jerusalem and defiles it and so forth, even though he was a
fairly benevolent Roman as Romans go, conquering Jerusalem compared to Vespation or Titus or Hadrian.
But does that start the clock? And then you get way up into the first century.
Or is it with Ezra and Nehemiah? A lot of people start it with 457 BCE,
which is a date that can come out around the time of Jesus, like 30, as mentioned here.
So it's very hard to date 11Q13 or 11Q milk. And whether it's about dying for the sins of the
people is a stretch because of that missing part. And even if it is the Messiah cut off,
does it mean cut off for the sins of the people? So Daniel 9 is a tough one. I mean,
it's that famous 70 weeks prophecy, but it's like a sliding rule. And I think it was applied
several times at various points. Josephus quotes it and refers to it in the Jewish
war book six. He doesn't, he refloods to it by some of the language. And he says that what we
learned from this prophecy, or we thought we learned incorrectly, was that about this time
the Messiah would come. Now he's pushing it all the way down to the 60s and the 70s with the Jewish
war. And then he realizes, well, all those Messiahs got killed, the ones we just went over,
all the way down to the Jewish war. So he says, you know what, it's actually talking about this
passion. Because what it says is the prince of the ruler who is to come will destroy the city
in the sanctuary. And he said, that's Josephus. That's not the Davidic Messiah. So it's a
complicated text to lay out. And you'll find different groups are using it in different ways.
But as far as dating it, it's tough to date. It really is. There's some carbon dates on it that
I haven't looked them up in a while. I need to see if that was part of the carbon dating.
Okay. And which cave, you know, the cave that we got to see the inside of? I have it right here.
I figure I'd just tantalize everybody to tease them because I know that we use some.
That was three and 11, but the three was incorrectly identified. But
this cave right here that, I don't know if you could see that or not, but it's a little bit shaky
because, but this is the actual one. I think that's the one that people say is three. If it was the
one on the left, depends on which one it was. Yeah. Ross said something. And he probably got
that from you is that they found a Melchizedek scrap or fragment from this cave. That could be
cave 11. And I can't tell from that angle, but if you back off, but yeah, I'd have to let people
can go up inside them now. And you got to be careful of the bat. They were like stuffed up in
these cracks and stuff that we're looking at right there. And they were fine. And some were
on the ground. They sifted. And yeah, when we go on these tours, we get to go to come run and you
get to play around in the caves. How about that? That is so cool. I just figured I'd tease people.
Okay, thank you for that super chat, Tim. You the man. Constellation Pegasus says,
Jehovah's Witnesses have something similar to what these Jesus types may have been thinking.
Some Witnesses think they're part of the remaining 144,000. They will go to heaven
while everyone else stays on earth. Yeah, I'm thinking in the book of Revelation,
those people are sealed, I remember, before all hell breaks loose and they're protected,
kind of like the book of Ezekiel, where you put the mark on people that are going to get spared
and the rest are killed. But so I don't know if they think they're the bride for sure, you know,
but whether they're supposed to die, I don't know. I don't think that Witnesses think they're
going to die, but they do think they're very especially chosen. The problem with the Jehovah's
Witnesses' chronology is that it started back in the 1800s with Russell and then Rutherford and then
all the other leaders. In the early 1900s, they were saying millions now living will never die
and they were part of the 144,000 and now we're kind of getting past that. I guess you could have
somebody that, you know, maybe was born in the night, let's see, 1920, what if someone was 100
years old, so they're born in 1923, but see that's kind of getting past their number that they had
in, obviously, for a while there was a lot of people. I'm one of the 144,000, so Christ will
come before I die. Yeah, that's, I cover a little bit of that in my series on Prophecy on YouTube.
And in the future, Derek, I want to do a course on apocalyptic ideas through history and we'll
cover the Witnesses. But yeah, they do think that they get to go to heaven while everybody
stays on earth and the evangelical Christians that are dispensationalist types, Darbyites,
like Hagee, like John Hagee, I told you I did a thing on him. They also believe that they're
going to go to heaven. You know how people talk about the second coming? They really have three
comings. They have Jesus came when he was born, right? That's coming one. And then the rapture
when he comes for the saints and takes them away, they don't have to go through tribulation.
And then the third coming is when he comes to judge the world and punish everyone and set up
the kingdom of God and the millennium and finally the new creation. So they also sometimes will use
that chapter about sealing the 144,000. Yeah, right. Thank you so much. Constellation,
appreciate the love. Josephus, Zeno, do all these suffering besides have roots in Egypt?
I don't think so. I think the ones that Josephus mentions tend to be Galileans if you had to pick
a geographical location. They tend to be from Galilee. But really, I don't think the regions
matter as much. As far as Egypt, you have the Egyptian, he's called. We don't know his name.
I think we only know him from Josephus. And he's mentioned that in the book of Acts, of course.
But he's dated differently than Josephus. I would go with Josephus, his dates.
But I'm more thinking, I sort of agree with Michael Wise here. We study a lot of his stuff in the
course. Michael Wise, WISC, he wrote a book called The First Messiah, which I just love the title,
The First Messiah, can you imagine? Because you're not talking about Jesus. And he argues that
he calls them scripture prophets. They're kind of different because it's along the lines of what
I'm arguing. I think he shares my view on this, that you find yourself in these Hebrew Bible
prophetic texts, sort of a tight network of texts that is your point of reference or your points
of reference. And you go, Oh, I wonder if I'm this or maybe I'm this or maybe I'm that. And that's
why you get in the New Testament, this repertoire where people go, Hey, John, the baptizer, who are
you? Are you Elijah? Because you got Elijah coming back, right? Are you Moses? Because you got Moses
coming back, you know, the prophet like Moses. Are you the Messiah? Are you like who are you? So
you get this kind of rundown of these different categories I call them and candidates. That's
my rubric that I work with. A category is like a text out there. And a candidate would be somebody
going, That's me. Right. So I mean, you can read like, like in examples, when you're reading about
the section, there's there's a section in I believe it's Deuteronomy, I could be wrong.
Yes, Deuteronomy. Typically about Moses saying like someone's going to come. That's right. Like Moses.
Deuteronomy 15. No, is it Deuteronomy 18 or 15? I can't remember now. Yeah. So these texts are kind
of the Jewish communities at this time, the Judeans, however you want to categorize this, people who are
in this tradition are searching them and going, Well, one of us is going to fit this category.
And that might be why they're out at Qumran. Qumran is right across from Mount Nebo in Isgah,
where Moses is buried according to the last chapter of Deuteronomy. So I call it like,
you want to be on the 50 yard line for the teacher coming back, you know, maybe position
yourself right there. Because he's got a head up to Jerusalem and take over. So to speak.
So I don't want to jumble them all together and make it like a mishmash. But like I said here with
the Paul book, I argue in that book that Paul thinks he's the guy, you know, the category. Did
you see my dog just come in? Look, there's Eden. Eden is not interested in this messianic stuff.
So I argue in the book that Paul finds himself in Isaiah 59.
I'm sorry. I got it. I'm getting mixed up because the dog got me off track. Paul finds
himself in Isaiah 49. And let me read it to you just as an example. Isaiah 49. Now, I think Jesus
found himself in this text too. But I'm trying to extend it. I want, I want people to see that
these are fluid texts that somebody later could say, well, maybe I'm the one that's going to do.
Kind of like a lot of Muslims will say, I found Muhammad in Isaiah 42 and like,
something like that in a way. No, but this would be me. I'm Paul. Okay. And I've been called by
Jesus and I'm thinking about my mission. What is my mission? I listen to this. Listen to me,
O coastlands and harken you peoples from afar. Okay, so I'm going to go whoever this is. It's
the nations, right? You coastlands. The Lord called me from the womb, from the body of my mother.
He named my name. Paul says in Galatians, he who separated me and called me for my mother,
he's quoting this, right? He's quoting it. And he applies it. He hid me in the shadow of his hands.
He said, you are my servant in whom I will be glorified. And then he goes on to say,
he formed me in the womb to be his servant, to bring Israel back to him. And then he goes on to
say, and to raise up the tribes and become a light to the nation, to the nation's plural,
that my salvation may reach to the end of the earth. So there you get the idea.
The guy called from the womb. Listen, coastlands, my guy's coming. He's going to gather up the tribes.
Remember, he sent first to the Jew first, he says. So he would go to every place, according to the
book of Acts, and he says it in his own letters, and he would preach in the synagogue to the Jew
first, and then to the Greek. And Acts does that. So is he reading this and thinking,
oh, God is in effect saying to me, oh, you think you got a hard job, Paul? Yeah, I do want you to
gather Israel all over the nations. Get them to come back. Remember, broken off branches,
but there's a remnant that Paul believes that is grafted in and coming back because of faith in
Jesus, as he says. Jason, by the way, you mentioned Jason, he's written all about that, right?
But even other versions, even if you don't take his kind of position, Paula Frederickson
does this too in her book, Paul the Pagan's Apostle, with his whole calling is, let me get the
nations to be a light to the nations, bring them in, and help wrap up the end because he thinks
that it's... In Romans 15, he describes this mission right out of this chapter. He actually
quotes some of the language of the chapter in Romans 15. So categories, candidates, what I'm
wanting to do then with the Dead Sea Scroll course is ask, when is the earliest example of what
wise calls a scripture Messiah? You see the difference, not just someone who thinks they're
destined for some great spiritual purpose. Messiah means anointed, but a scripture Messiah, meaning
no, I'm in this text, I'm in this text, I'm in that text. And if something happens, then
they sometimes anticipate it, like you will all leave me and fall away. Well, is that because
I'm reading Zachariah about striking the shepherd and the sheep are getting scattered? So what came
first, the chicken or the egg? That is that Jesus gets struck and obviously people scatter when they
want to save their lives. Mark says they all forsook him and fled. But did that happen? Or did he
realize if this goes the way I think it's going to go, I'm going to have followers that are not
going to stay faithful. So I got to tell them, you got to stay faithful, you got to stick with me,
pray, be strong, stay with me. And according to Mark, at least they didn't. So...
Right. Oh, wow. Okay. Thank you so much for that, Joe Cephas.
A couple more here. Constellation Pegasus. If Job is the oldest book in the Hebrew Bible,
it's interesting how Job's first appearance comes from a fierce storm. Reminds me of the
Canaanite storm god. Any dots to connect here? I'd like to say it's out of my field when I don't
want to. Job is tough. Boy, the Hebrew is tough. The dating is tough. The language is tough.
And the other problem with Job is you have the beginning that we don't think is
part of the middle. And you have the ending, the epilogue. So the preface and the epilogue,
which is the setup, are two things. And then you've got the middle that doesn't explain it as the
court of heaven and so forth. But just the kind of ongoing dialogue between Job, a suffering figure
who maintains his righteousness and wants to question God and write his case with an iron pen
and have a goel or redeemer come along later and vindicate him. So, you know, I'm just not an expert
on that, so I'm probably not able to offer much. But look, I mean, mountains, storms,
whirlwinds, all that sort of stuff is all the way through the Hebrew Bible when you talk about
Jehovah or God in any kind of poetic way, right? He rides upon the winds. He rides
his chariot through the heavens and so forth. So that kind of idea is there for sure.
Thank you so much. Doc Pluromenat says, could the teacher be a historical figure,
Menehem the Essin, associated with the Jewish war and redactors connected
eschatological messianic expectations to address the Yahads' evolving needs?
Yeah, I would tend to think he's earlier than Menachem the Essin,
because he comes way into the first century. I would tend to think the teachers earlier,
just based on dating all of the scrolls. One of the things we do in the course,
and I'm actually going to do one of our Zoom sessions, probably the next one I'm going to do,
is how do you date the scrolls internally and externally and externally in terms of what they
refer to and also scientifically because some of them have been carbon-dated. But remember,
the carbon dates give you the date of the material, not when it was written. So it's not always helpful.
Like you can have a copy of something and you go, oh, it came out first century. Like I think the
Habakkuk Pescher dates the copy we have from Cave One. I think it dates to the first century,
as I recall. There's some argument for that. Sometimes these dates we're not sure of because
you get two or three results. But that wouldn't mean that the text originated then. It would mean
that that particular copy was passed on on material that dates to that time. But the best way to date
them is to try to look at things they refer to, like historical events. For example, they do talk
about Antiochus Epiphanes. They talk about various Maccabean kings by name. They talk about
Alexandra Salome, for example. They mention different figures. Well, that can help us to
date them because they're referring to something contemporary. So it's tough. But I think it's
hard to put the teacher into the first century. For me, it doesn't work. And most of us that work on
the scrolls would think he's somewhere. He's either put in the second century BCE, like the last
quarter of the second century, or maybe the mid to third quarter of the first century BCE. I tend to
go with first century BCE. I can say this. There's no event mentioned, say, from Herod the Great on
in any of the scrolls, as far as Wise is able to tell. He's the one that's done the work on it.
And his work was chosen for the Oxford Encyclopedia of the Dead Sea Scrolls,
or the Handbook, rather, the Oxford Handbook of the scrolls. They chose Wise's work for the dating.
So that represents the opinions of most of the major editors that work on the scrolls,
that Michael Wise's dating is probably one of the most reliable that we could go on.
It's got to be first century BCE. As far as his name, who knows. I wish we knew.
Let's call him Judah. Let's call him Jesus. Let's call him Jesus. You can't call him Jesus,
but you realize how many Jesuses there are. There are a lot of Jesuses in Josephus.
I was going to say in the Talmud, there's mention, and this is something a lot of the
mythicists would jump on, is like, oh, there's a Alexander Jenaeus, a Jesus under Alexander
the Jenaeus, and this is mentioned in the Talmud. And it's like, hmm, this is 70 BCE.
What if, you know, this is the first one, you know, and his name is Jesus? Who knows.
And the same with the Pantera, or Pandera, he has different names. It seems to be earlier than
the time of Jesus of Nazareth. So, right. Thanks for the question, though.
Yeah, thank you. Hang Fashi, before the Romans wrecked Masada, the leader of the movement,
exhorted the men to kill everyone and unalive themselves. Apparently, he referred to Hindu
practices. Is there a reason he went to Hinduism as an exemplar for Hebrews?
Well, I don't know that he went to Hindu practices. I'm just not familiar with that.
The models that he gives sound like Socrates' model for the noble death. We cover that in
this book, A Noble Death, that I mentioned earlier, in case people are just tuning in.
I wrote the chapter on Masada. And also keep in mind that Manachem's speech,
obviously, you just read it, you can tell, it's not a speech that he actually gave, but it's a
speech that, it's a speech that Josephus composed for the occasion, which is part of, you know,
Greek historiography. And it sounds a lot like the noble death of a Greek Stoic,
or any kind of Greek martyr of Greek tradition that chooses death rather than life when the
circumstances were in it. And that's actually what the book is about. That it doesn't surprise me
that that's known in Hinduism. But I would need to know more about what actual texts and period.
I think it's something that's fairly universal, because people who find themselves in dire
circumstances must make choices. And the argument Manachem gives is, do you want your children
taken to the copper mines, your women raped or killed and sent to the brothels in Rome,
and your men crucified before your eyes? Or what should we all take our lives? And according
to the story, they chose 10. And those 10 killed the rest willing, you know, they laid their neck
down and allowed themselves to die. And then those nine, one of them killed the nine, and then he
supposedly killed himself. It's such a legendary sounding story that lots of scholars doubt it.
But the idea of them all dying rather than being captured does seem to be, to me, a compelling
narrative. When you go to Masada, always take groups to Masada. And I show you where skeletons
were found and hacked up and everything in toward the southern caves where they found some of the
skeletons. I was going to say, I literally have footage of that here. But there's look, people
really do need to check out the course. But I'm like, we're gonna be putting more of this stuff
that we did while we were over there for people to see over time. Dr. Pluromonot, Second Wild Thought,
and we have to wrap things up here soon. The teacher pointing to Hurricaneis II and the
wicked priest and antagonist, antagonist, Matthias. Yeah, antagonist, Matthias, yeah. Matthias. The
whole earbiting incident when he was deposed to disqualify him from priesthood looks like a
halarchic dispute. Yeah. Well, people have identified the wicked priest in various ways.
Antigonus is the last of the Maccabeans. He was actually sent to Mark Anthony for crucifixion
and beheading, apparently. We have two accounts, one he's beheaded when he's crucified.
Herod the Great has to defeat him. His name is actually Matthew. It's a good Maccabean name,
as you can see. And he is of the Maccabeans. He's the last really. And then Herod, who has no pedigree,
gets in. And when he gets in, because of the power of Rome, he's declared king of the Jews.
What he lacks is no priestly lineage and no Davidic lineage. And also, his father is an
Idomian and his mother's Arabian. So even though his father converted to Judaism,
his mother's Arabian, this is Herod the Great I'm talking about. And so I don't know. But the
earbiting thing, yeah, the idea would be if you have a physical infirmity of some type,
then you're disqualified to serve. And it does bring up this thing about technicalities that
people consider today, when they think of Jewish halachic for people who aren't familiar with that
term, its interpretations of observing the hundreds of commandments, the rabbis finally count 613
commandments of the Torah. But then how do you observe each one? You know, you say keep the Sabbath,
but what do you mean? Well, don't work. Next question. What's work? Don't carry a burden.
What's a burden? So they even come down to, if I'm a tailor, and I have my needle, my sewing
needle that I use all day long in my lapel, and I forget and I go out on the Sabbath,
that's the same as a builder carrying a jackhammer. You say, well, it's just a little needle. Yeah,
but I make my living with this needle. So I'm carrying the instrument of my work or trade. So
that's breaking the law. Whereas someone else would say, probably a Jesus type. Come on, are you
kidding? You know, the Sabbath is made for people, not people for the Sabbath. The kumran group won't
even go to the toilet on the Sabbath. Right. Think about that. We talk about that in the course.
And the toilets that I think we have discovered and where they are and so forth.
Why? Because you can't go out of your dwelling on the Sabbath. And the Sabbath day's journey,
where the toilets have to be, is beyond that. And so you just have to wait. So, you know,
you can chuckle at that. Josephus mentions it, and he thinks it's very admirable. He said,
look at the piety. They don't even go aside. He calls it in English, go aside, you know, go
to the John, we'd say. They don't even go to the toilet. Probably talking about defecation,
I don't know about urination, but maybe both. You can also see people needing to go pee, you know,
and like, oh, boy, don't drink anything Saturday night, because you're going to be in trouble.
I mean, Friday night, rather, Friday night. Right, right, right. Yeah, that's, oh my gosh,
that's so funny. But as far as halakic disputes, I know Dr. Porwin knows this because he's asked
me before about these things. We have MMT, which most of us think is a letter from the teacher
to the Jewish community of Sadducees remarking on some of their differences halakically about
ritual purity. And it would show you how absolutely strict they are. But, you know, even that letter
is disputed. I've heard it argue the opposite, that that letter is not from the Qumran group,
but from the group in Jerusalem. So we don't know a lot about the Sadducees. We just mainly
know what's in the New Testament, because in the Talmud, they're called the like Epicureans,
because they don't believe in afterlife, sort of like eat, drink and be merry, because, you know,
when you die, you're dead. And I think they were pretty religious and strict, but they're very
much into ritual purity. That seems to be the thing. Wow, there's so much. Doc, thanks for
that 20. I really appreciate that. Last one here is Constellation Pegasus saying,
were Jews allowed to bury people when on the Sabbath? I think not. No, you don't bury on the
Sabbath. And that is a very interesting question when it comes to Jesus. It seems like I'm the only
one that worries about this, but according to the fullest burial count of Jesus that we have,
as to where it was, believe it or not, it's in the Gospel of John. Remember, Mark just,
Mark doesn't have any details, and he doesn't even have anything at the empty tomb, other than
the women coming and the tomb is empty. But John, the last few chapters of John,
that would be essentially the arrest trial crucifixion and resurrection of Jesus,
like John 18, 19 and 20, those seem to be different. They seem to have a lot of details
about Caiaphas and Annas, his father-in-law and Pontius Pilate and so forth. And one of the things
that John says, just the Gospel of John, is that the tomb they put Jesus in happened to be near
the place of crucifixion, and it wasn't used, and they just blocked it up to keep the body in.
And then they would have come and reburied Jesus permanently. And so when Mary Magdalene comes
early Sunday morning, that's John 20, she doesn't think he's raised or anything. She just said,
oh my God, they've already taken him. Where have they taken him? See, meaning the burial parties
got here before me. So chances are Saturday night of, you know, after the Sabbath,
the people responsible for the burial would have come and got that corpse and taken it for a
permanent burial because it's going to begin rotting. And you're already now, if it's a
Thursday crucifixion, you're two days, if it's a Friday crucifixion, it's over 24 hours. So you
got to get that body in the ground. But as far as burying on the Sabbath, no, you don't bury on the
Sabbath. You wait. Wow. Thank you. Constellation for that final super chat. Let's go ahead and
let everybody know Black Friday specials for all the MVP courses. And of course, you're going to
want to sign up for Jesus and the Dead Sea Scrolls this Sunday. He's doing a zoom call with all
students who've signed up. And if you can't make it, we understand it'll be recorded and it will
be saved there. But it's always good to see the students showing up and hanging out with you.
Yeah, yeah, I get to know the names. It's fun to talk. And the thing about it, if you sign up by
Sunday night, well, you could even sign up. I said, I'm really, I'm tired. I did two videos earlier
today, two interviews. If you signed up by Sunday morning, even the link is going to be there. Yeah.
And the meeting starts at noon Eastern. But Ryan puts the link on, she's going to put the link up
probably Friday morning. I'm going to give it to her tomorrow on Thanksgiving and she'll put it up.
So you could even sign up, you know, now Thursday, Friday, Saturday, even Sunday morning, and you
could come to the zoom meeting. Well, if you did sign up now, though, they can watch the course.
And yeah, I want them to sign up now because at least you could watch the opening of it.
Right. So exactly. Some of you are so diligent, you could watch all 10 lessons before we even
look at all these courses. Well, I know there's Robin, Faith Walsh, Kip Davis, and that one's
18 lectures. It's a big one. There's obviously Dennis McDonald. That's 18 lectures as well.
And there's more courses, of course. And New Testament studies for everybody. We did our
Mark course. And then Dale Allison, Jr. And then in David Littler and the new courses with Richard
Carrier, there's a we just got a bunch of different courses and we have more coming.
Yeah. So okay, well, good to see you, Derek. I hope hope to see some people
on Sunday. And either way, I'll see you virtually from time to time. So
absolutely. Thank you, Beth, for that super sticker. And Dr. Table, I think we should do
where the four horsemen show up. How's that sound to you? Okay, just don't include me.
Yeah, you are not going to appear in this on a white horse wearing a crown at all.
It could be McDonald. Who knows? Thank you so much. Hit the like button, share it,
drop a comment. Let us know what you think. I hope you have a wonderful Thanksgiving and
enjoy the holidays with your loved ones. And who knows, I might pop in here for another live
sometime soon. So thank you so much, everybody. Thanks, Derek. I appreciate it.
