Did early Islam look far different than what we painted as today?
We have this fine, clear dividing line between Christians and Jews and Muslims.
But in early Islamic history, Syriac Christians played a much more significant role in Islam.
In fact, so much so that people were marrying and practicing the traditions of each other's
faiths, sometimes even conversion took place back and forth.
Wait till you hear what the doctor has to say today.
We are MythVision. Welcome back to MythVision Podcast. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm your host,
Derek Lambert, and today I have an Islamic scholar, but he's not only an Islamic scholar in the sense
that knowing around the time of the origins of Islam, you know, he fits in the category of
Christianity and Islam, like the origins of Islam and the Christianities around that,
but it goes even back further into early Christianity. If I could use the term Syriac
Christianity, where they would have read potentially in Aramaic, some of the versions
of Christianity that you probably wouldn't call Orthodox, I suspect he's aware of these things.
And my guest is Dr. Michael Penn. Thank you so much for joining me. I feel like I butchered
that somehow. I don't know how. Please welcome to MythVision. Thank you, Derek.
Thank you. So tell us, if you don't mind, real quick briefly, you've written three books that
I'm aware of. You've probably written more, but these are the ones on Amazon. Invitation to
Syriac Christianity and Anthology. What is this book about briefly?
Yeah, this was a really fun one to work on. Basically, there is an entire branch of early
Christianity and medieval Christianity and modern Christianity that most of us never think of.
That is, instead of Christianity solely being a religion of the Mediterranean, it's also a religion
of the Middle East and of Central Asia and of China. That means that through much of Christian
history, the actual center of Christianity geographically was not Rome or Constantinople,
but actually Baghdad. And that millions of early Christians were reading, writing, and hearing
a form of Aramaic called Syriac. And we have over a thousand years worth of documents in this,
over 20,000 manuscripts. And so what I did is I combined forces with three other professors.
And for three years, we would meet and try to figure out how do we, out of an edition of tens
of thousands of possible texts, get it down to about 120 excerpts that would allow folks who
don't know much or maybe never heard of this giant Eastern branch of Christianity access to a tradition
that has been all but lost. And so a lot of it literally was having the four of us in a room
for three days every few months battling out what would we put together, how would we introduce
and organize this for the widest authorship, readership, excuse me. And so that was just
really a treat. It is appearing officially on February 22nd. That is auspiciously on 2222. So
we're looking forward to that. This is the upcoming. Don't miss it. There is so much we don't know.
And that is what I love about what he's doing. And I personally want to follow up to do an episode
on this actual book if possible with you, Dr. Penn. I really think that'll be fun. Do you want
me to call you Dr. Penn or do you want me to just call you Michael? Michael, I prefer that.
Okay. It's total tradition. Everyone's different. Totally get it. Well, thank you so much for that.
I just want to give our audience a tease here. When Christians first met Muslims, a source book
of the earliest Syriac writings on Islam, what is this about? One of the things that is unusual
about the early history of Islam is that outside of the Quran itself, we really don't have textual
sources about Islam written by Muslims till about 130 years, 120 years after the death of the Prophet
Muhammad. In contrast, though, we have dozens and dozens of early Christian writings from the first
few decades after Muhammad's death, looking at Islam from the outside. And so what I wanted to do
was put together an anthology of some of these earliest Christian writings when Christians
first met Muslims so that people had access to them because it really in many ways revolutionizes
not only our understanding of early Christian Muslim relations, but it's also really important
historical material for those first very nebulous decades of Islamic history. So again,
this is a collection of texts with introductions, but are particularly historically significant
because it lets us know how in the first few years after the death of the Prophet Muhammad,
how Christians who were encountering Muslims, what did they think about Islam? And what could
they tell us about Islam's origins and earliest history? Thank you so much. I think we're going
to be talking mostly about this book today. But last of all, envisioning Islam, Syriac
Christians and early Muslim world, divinations, rereading late ancient religion. If you don't
mind giving us a recap of this as well, we might be touching into the same vein of both of these,
but yes, this is kind of the companion volume to what I just mentioned. That is,
instead of being a collection of translated texts, it was a chance for me over embarrassingly a
14 year period of going through those texts, going through material culture, archaeology,
a history of early Islam, to really look at the different sort of viewpoints that the earliest
Christians had who were in direct contact with Muslims in the seventh, eighth and early ninth
centuries. Thank you so much. I really appreciate that. I hope everybody goes down in the description.
Get you a copy of one of these books and get acquainted, especially the one coming up, because
we're taking a dive into Islam like never before here on MythVision, wanting to get to critical
scholarship, right? Oftentimes, I say this just so everybody understands, the critical scholars
will actually go places that you may not hear traditionalists go. They're kind of looking
at it in a factual way. You can interpret it how you will, but at the end of the day, the data
sometimes is even different. They grant voices that are not allowed to be spoken or heard in a
traditional sense. We know this from Christianity. You're not supposed to listen to Martian.
Don't you know he was a heretic? And my point is, sometimes the critical scholars will let
Martian speak, and you can actually get into the world of someone that isn't or is a minority
position, which may not have been a minority position to begin with, which sounds like Syriac
Christianity in a way, like this really couples some really intense questions. So if I may,
I'll start with our first one. And this one's simple. When one thinks of Christianity,
one thinks of Latin and Greek speaking world, but there's a forgotten world of Christians,
which are Syriac speaking Christians of the Middle East. Can you tell us more about them
than what we've already heard? Where they were and lived and what type of Christianity did they
believe in? Is there a way to nail that down? It's going to go further. I'm probably going to have
a follow up about this just to get into a little deeper, but please. So there are about 10 million
Christians living today that are part of the Syriac heritage. About half of them live in the Southern
Indian state of Kerala because of early missionary movements to Southern India. The other half were
mainly throughout the Middle East. But because of the last century or two there, and especially
the most recent years, there's a huge diaspora community around the world in the United States.
There are fairly substantial Syriac communities in the East Coast and Rhode Island in New Jersey,
around Chicago, and close to where I teach at Stanford in the Central Valley of California.
In the ancient world, Syriac Christianity was a huge branch of the Christian Church,
one that stretched from what would be modern to Eastern Turkey throughout the Middle East and
Syria, Iran, Iraq, Lebanon, up through Afghanistan, down to India, and up into China. It was the largest
church for most of pre-modern church history. And so a lot of what I'm interested in is how
does our understanding of Christian history change when we move our analysis to this in some ways
almost forgotten branch of Christianity? Now, a lot of what these Christians thought, believed,
wrote is very similar to what we encounter with other Christians, but often it's a little bit
different. So for example, the New Testament of most Syriac Christians does not include the book
of Revelation. So we can kind of see what does Christianity look like when Revelation is not
considered to be a sacred text. Pretty much none of them heard about Saint Augustine. So what does
it mean to have a branch of Christianity that doesn't have this really strong original sin
trajectory that becomes so important within the West? And also, unlike most more Western Christians,
these Christians were under Islamic rule for about 90% or more of their history. And so the
question is, what does it mean for Christians when their exposure to Muslims isn't an invading force,
isn't this kind of religion you don't know much about, but you hear that's developing a few
thousand miles away. But what about Christians who were marrying Muslims, whose kids were dating
Muslims, who had Muslims that their business partners who were part of Muslim armies, who
were building monasteries funded by the Muslim Caliph. And so that change is not just a change in
geography, but it also means a lot of the things that we nowadays consider to be very standard
for Christianity are very different in this more Eastern branch. And that's one of the things that
continues to excite me and my students about studying this almost lost branch of Christianity.
I would go so far and correct me if I'm wrong here, because this is your field. And I think
you would also fit that this might help shed some light on early Islam, because,
you know, as we talk about, we have orthodoxy and this is the straight narrow. And, you know,
it was very rare that a heretic would go off the path, but nonetheless, you know,
in Islam, there seems to be the same kind of issue where things get stiff and it becomes
like this. I guess if that's a proper term to use, my point is, is it's always been this way.
And this is how it is. And no, it seems that we shed light on it. There might be more unity
than diversity than we would expect more getting along. So this leads me to ask just a more
doctrinal question that maybe you can help me with. Maybe you can't. As far as Syriac doctrine,
the Syriac Christians, we see in Islam, like these early implications of a triune with a
mother goddess, things like this that are very strange. And this this reflection of what maybe
they think of Christianity as, you can't always take things for the words that they say. For
example, if I'm reading a contrast somebody in the early church, or they're describing a heretic,
they might go further along and paint them even further. I know there were early versions of
Christianity that had a divine goddess in their Trinity, but I didn't know if these Christians
are there right in the vein of where the origins of Islam happened. Therefore, the knowledge of
Christianity is like right in their backyard. It's not like, you know what I mean? No, no, I
think it's a really good question. And one of the challenges, especially for the first century or so
with the history of Islam, is really a lack of sources, especially from the Islamic side. We
simply don't have the degree of kind of written histories that we get in some other religions.
But what we do have is this plethora of outside voices, of people outside the tradition looking
in. Now this means, of course, they have their own biases. But one of the things that I feel that
scholars of the history of Islam have increasingly been doing and are increasingly good at,
is how does one balance out the sources within the early Muslim tradition and what they can
tell us about the history of Islam and the sort of biases they have with this other set of material
of non-Muslims who have exposure to Islam and are writing about it, who also have their own biases.
But to start bringing these two voices together gives us a much more rich perspective on what
that opening century or two of Islam might be looking like. It often leaves us, unfortunately,
with more questions than answers, which is typical in historical studies. But I do think
that that shift of now looking not just at Muslim sources about early Islam, but also
Christian and Jewish sources about early Islam really enriches the field and is going to be
interesting to see in the coming years how that affects our overall idea of the early trajectory
of Islam. Thank you so much. What was relations like between the Syriac Christians and Muslims?
Did they marry each other? Which I think you said they did. Maybe we can give an example of one.
Did they participate in each other's religious festivals? Did any of the Syriac Christians
work in senior positions in the Muslim government? If so, is it possible you could give us a few
examples? Okay, so I will quickly answer that all as yes. Let's make it easy. Yeah, to fill in a
little bit. One of the things that when he's doing my research about the about 60 or 70 early Syriac
sources we have that speak about Muslims that range in size from a little manuscript fragment
to like a 300 page history book is the diversity of these Christians responses to Islam was really
incredible. It ranged from completely antagonistic to downright friendly. And it's that sort of
variation that made me so excited about these sources. That is you will have highly polemical
sources that can proclaim the Prophet Muhammad to be equivalent to the Antichrist. Or you can at
the same time have the head of the world's largest church go on for a page and a half on what a great
guy Muhammad was. I mean, he's not quite a prophet, but he's really, really close. And also to see this
very strong dichotomy between Christian clergy who were trying so hard to keep the boundaries of Islam
and Christianity separate and clearly what's happening on the ground, which is no one else
is paying attention to them. And so it also gives us a window to everyday life. So one example
of this and one of my favorites is an early eighth century Christian bishop and lawyers
approached with the following question, which is a woman is Christian woman is married to a Muslim.
And the married the Muslim man is threatening to kill a Christian priest. If that priest doesn't
give him what his wife, the Christian Eucharist. And the question is from, should the priest give
that woman the Eucharist or not? And there are just so many levels of things being intermixed here,
right? That you have a Muslim such as inter intermeering with a Christian woman,
but wants to make sure she has access to Christian rituals. And so those are the sort of things that
for me, who I see myself very much as a social historian, trying to figure out a bit what's
happening on the ground that these sources are just wonderful at. And we have this at all levels
of society, as I mentioned, being part of Muslim armies, intermeering, be queuing their legacy
to their Muslim neighbor, who's one of their best friends. And at the same time, other sources that
are incredibly critical of Islam. And so once I get that sort of diversity of opinions,
I feel closer to some sort of understanding about what's really happening on the ground.
This makes me reminded of like biblical research where we don't have sources, but what was the
religion of the common Israelite and what was the priest? Well, we have the literature of the
priest. And we know what they thought. And it was usually all or nothing, you know, and it's never
this nuance. Yeah, yeah, yeah, ball was great. And so was Ashura. We love Yahweh too. You know,
it's like, whoa, whoa, whoa, what are you talking about? So it's a reminder that what you're suggesting
we at least have better evidence for, we have some sources that are voices of this nuance that may
have existed in antiquity, where we just don't have other than archaeological data to back up
things like this, what was their worship like? What was this this that? So this is really interesting.
It sounds like this divide was more gray. And there wasn't such an all or nothing position all the
time. I think of it in two ways. One is there clearly are folks who are trying to build fences.
And there are clearly bunches of folks who either jump over those fences or don't even know they're
on the ground in the first place. Another way I think of it is when I talk to my colleague,
especially do let's say South Asian religions of today, I tell them, oh my gosh, I found this
amazing information. Can you believe it that Muslims and Christians used to worship in the same place?
And they look at me and they're like, Michael, you're telling me you actually could publish
something that says something that obvious? Have you never gone to a Hindu shrine before?
And it makes me think that they're kind of right that folks who deal with lived religions
are very familiar with this much more blurriness on the ground. But because we have inherited
a traditional legacy of Christianity and Islam being so separate of in many cases being depicted
as clashing civilizations, it means that we forget everything we know about actual lived religions
and assume that they were as neatly divided as some of their clergy members wanted them to be.
Wow, well put, well put, I agree. Islam seems to give the impression and it may not be all Muslims,
right? So there's a lot of people that are in all these camps that might have a position. But
this impression that all Muslims and Christians did was battle each other, which you're pointing
out that's not necessarily true. And Muslim apologists, for example, will take all the credit
and for all the victories in the Muslim conquest. When actually their armies were mixed, can you
tell me about the role the Syriac Christians played in the Muslim army? What percentage of the
Muslim army consisted of Syriac Christians? Were any Syriac Christians made generals of the Muslim
army? Like, how mixed is this? If only I knew, if only I had a Gallup poll from the seventh century.
What I do know is that we do have sources that are very specific about Christians being in Muslim
armies. We have sources talking about Christian priests in a Muslim-run town that's being besieged
by the Byzantines. And the question is, well, the priest is fighting on the wall against the
Byzantines. Is that okay or not? Or in the eighth century, we have this really fantastic letter from
the head of the East Syrian church, this church that stretches all the way to China. And the Muslim
Caliph had just sent him a letter saying, hey, I'm about to invade the Byzantines. I really need you
to come along. Do you mind? And of course, he's off on the fastest horse he can find to actually be
part of the entourage for this. And so that, unfortunately, doesn't give you the questions
you want answered of what percentage it is, where did these people fall in the hierarchy.
But it does tell me that there is this sort of messiness. And again, it should not surprise us.
We should not be surprised that people who have the same religion but are from two different nation
states are occasionally going to be on opposite sides in a war that happens all the time.
But because we have these very firm lines in our mind between Christianity and Islam,
and this idea that that is the primary identity that the people have,
we kind of sort things into camps that don't really match what's being happened in the ground.
So again, I wish I could speak on point until you was 22.8%. I just don't know. But I have enough
case examples that are documented to let me realize that things, as I mentioned, are
messier than we used to think they were. Wow. This could change so much. I really do appreciate
your answers here. Now, when one looks at a map of where the Muslims conquered,
we tend to forget that those lands were a bit like the early settlers of the U.S.,
a white government ruling population of Native American Indians.
What kind of percentage of the population were Syriac Christians and what were Muslims?
Do we have any idea about that? That's a question I can help a little more specifically with.
Again, we don't have the poll data or the census demographics.
But what scholars are increasingly convinced by is that Christianity remains the dominant,
the majority population in the Islamic Empire for many, many centuries after the beginning
of Islam. And so what that means is when we're talking the first century or two into the Islamic
Empire, you have a situation where the rulers of that empire are themselves Muslims. But they
have to deal with the fact that by far the majority population is not. By far, the majority population
is Christianity and in the Middle East, that generally means Syriac Christianity.
And so that also changes the way we think of early Islam to recognize that the Islamic Empire
by demographics was predominantly a Christian empire for its earliest history. Again, if not
by rulership, by just the number of folks from different religious traditions that are in it.
Wow, you don't hear this every day. The Christianity of the Quran is different.
This is kind of what I was hinting at at the beginning from mainstream Christianity
in the sense that Islam sees Jesus as just a prophet. It's anti-Trinitarian. He didn't die on
the cross but was raised up in heaven and will return in Damascus. He spoke from the cradle,
et cetera, you know, infancy gospels, I think. Does the Christianity of the Syriac Christians
match these beliefs? And if so, do you think that is where the Quran learned all of its Christianity
from? If we're taking a historical, so before anyone gets their panties in a wad here, I have
to admit, you know, we're taking a historical critical approach. So we're not, we're trying
to figure out if we were to try and explain where all of these ideas came from, where did they come
from? Well, no one needs to have a faith crisis on this one because we don't have enough information
to directly say. What I think, what I do feel comfortable saying is the idea that
some of the depictions of Christianity within the Quran can be explained solely by the fact
that Syriac Christians are different than any other Christian we know. It's just wrong. That is,
there is enough similarity on basics in terms of theology and practice that the Quran's description
of Christianity in its various aspects can't be explained solely as simply they just knew
these wacky Syriac Christians. That is a theory that has occasionally been put forward as more
and more people study Syriac Christianity that kind of fades in the background because it doesn't
really match up with our evidence well enough. Is Syriac Christianity uniform or is it kind of
potential? You see what I mean? Because it's a big thing. It's also a heavily divided church
that is starting in the 5th centuries. There are a number of church councils that really become
incredibly divisive for Christianity. Most of these focused on a theological issue called
Christology. In shorthand, I sometimes think of it if a Christian believes that Jesus is both
God, that is divine, and human. How does that mixture work? Is it 80-20? Is it 60-40? What are
the details? And while very few modern Christians lose sleep over this, that was the big theological
questions in Christianity in the 5th and 6th century. And many of our modern divisions in
Christianity are historically based on those sort of divisions. What it means for Syriac speaking
Christians is when Islam encountered these Christians, encountered them in four competing
churches where, yes, there was a lot of similarities, but each of those four different divisions in
Syriac Christianity was very real. And it's in the same way that you occasionally see two churches
across the street. There are different denominations and trying to get people in their drawers and
not the ones across the street. That's not a bad depiction of much of Syriac Christianity. So it,
though even today numerically is a small tradition, 10 million approximately out of
2 billion Christians, even today there is an a unified Syriac church, but rather a number of
different ones that divide it in the same way that we have over 500 Protestant denominations in the
U.S. So there's no unified Syriac Christianity and certainly not at the time period in which
earliest Muslims encountered them. So the question, I guess, to ask you since it is a guess, and I know
experts in the field don't like guessing, especially when it's, you know, they have like,
look, I have facts, I can back this up, but if we were just to be hypothetical here and you were to
try and puzzle together early Islam or to the doctrines, right, the doctrines of their understanding
of Jesus, where how would you maybe fit this idea? Like, would you think that traveling
merchants somehow are passing on stories and here he gets a manuscript because maybe he's
hunting like, let's be honest, Joseph Smith to use an analogy. He's looking for literature. He didn't
know a thing of Egyptian, but he thought he did. He's looking for biblical literature.
He's in the vein of Abrahamic faith, and he's trying to find stuff. So he's searching for the,
you know, God's text and things like that. I wonder if Muhammad may have had this kind of
interest as well. And as he, we may not, we have the tradition of him, but if we'd have seen him
on the ground, maybe he's a hunter for truth and he's searching and see, I don't know. I mean,
I'm throwing it out there to you. No, it's great. And one of the challenges is it's really hard to
figure out the historical Muhammad. That is, there's a movement in the study of the New Testament
called the historical Jesus that is trying to figure out, okay, we have sources written decades
after Jesus's death. Each of them have their own perspective on this. Is there a way we can back
engineer it to figure out who was Jesus really from a historical standpoint?
That's kind of hard to do. New Testament scholars keep making tons of books. The problem is while
we have thousands of books on the historical Jesus, no, two of them agree with each other,
which again kind of tells us that our evidence from a historical standpoint is late. It's biased.
We can't quite really back engineer from there. There's something very similar in terms of the
Prophet Muhammad, which is the Quran speaks very little about Muhammad. And we don't get
really written sources from Muslims about Muhammad's life to like 100 plus years after his death.
And so I don't mean to take the complete pass on the question, but as a historian, I just need to
recognize, since I decided to be a historian of the ancient world and not in the late 20th century,
there are tons of fascinating questions I have that I just don't have enough evidence to provide
any sort of answer I feel comfortable with. So here's the same thing as me.
I'm just saying, you know, it's a great question. If you find the answer, tell me.
At least from the sources I know, it's just not good enough historical material. Now,
that doesn't mean they aren't how they're approached. That means it doesn't mean that you
can't have answers as a member of a faith community. But that's using different types of
evidence and different types of evaluating it. If you put on just the hat of historian,
there are many things in the ancient world that historians can't tell you diddly squat about.
Simply because we don't have the sources. And unfortunately, most of the things we really
want to know about Muhammad, similar to many of the things we really want to know about Jesus,
we can't say much of just because we don't have the historical sources.
That's why I like intertextuality and like looking at things like Cadman's Cave and
is there connections? Is there common sources where they get the idea of interning clay birds
into living? Right. And so there are certain things you can trace out like the example that
you mentioned, which is within the second century of Christianity. There's an amazingly popular
document that we now call the Infancy Gospel of Thomas is about Jesus as a five-year-old who's
throwing temper tantrums and killing most of his schoolmates. He fortunately later resurrects them.
One of the miracles, in fact, the first of that is him churning, as you said, kind of clay into
birds that fly away. Now this is a tradition because the Infancy Gospel of Thomas gets
translated into tons of different languages. It's incredibly popular, even though it doesn't
eventually make him in the New Testament. It's pretty clear that the Quran, which gives the
exact same story, is at least indirectly aware of this tradition. So that's one case where we can
see a connection, intertextually, as you said. There's another known as the story of the Sleepers
of Ephesus, which also we have a very lengthy Christian tradition in multiple languages.
And we find the same narrative in the Quran. This should not surprise us. The Quran has a very
lengthy chapter about Joseph of Technicolor Dreamcoat fame. And it looks in changes some things,
but it looks very similar in its overall structure of what we know the story of Joseph and his
brothers within the Book of Genesis. That is, the Quran is in conversation with a variety of
different sources, including Christian and Jewish sources, if not actual written sources, at least
aware of the tradition as its accessed orally. That tells us a little bit about early Islam.
It didn't grow up in a vacuum, but it still doesn't get to the point where we really want to know
who was Muhammad, what exactly did the very earliest Muslims think, etc. So we get a few
little pieces around the edges, and those are exciting. But I still as a historian feel disappointed.
I want a lot more sources so I can really answer some of those bigger questions you raised, Derek.
I agree. I agree with you. If you find them, please send me an email. Oh, you know I will,
definitely. I will definitely want to do this again with you, of course, too. If I may in the
question, because I want to formulate this before I move on to the next subject, in the name of what
we talked about with intertextuality, or at least common source tradition, whether it's oral or not,
we're finding a more flexible idea of Christianity and Islam than what we see today. It's very
distinctive. Yeah, it's not as, you know, the communities are much more together, it seems,
or at least, like you said, fuzzy, to granite the least, fuzzy. I wonder if the dual, is it dual
cornon, the two-horned figure that we find in here. A lot of people today are trying to tiptoe
around who this might have been, or what this might have been, and some say, yes, this is Alexander
the Great. That this comes from the Alexander romance, or it seems to come from this common
source. Do you have an expert historian opinion on this, on where you stand on that, and maybe the
shed's light also on how flexible were they with their sources? I mean, you know, are they picking
up on this material, similar to maybe like Josephus, right? Josephus is reading outside of just his
Bible. He has a broader world he's looking at. He's a historian. He's trying to find a way to
have Alexander the Great talk to Daniel, or at least know that Daniel wrote about him and things
like that. So what do you think about this whole dual cornon? Am I saying that right? Dual cornon?
It worked just fine. Okay. Quick answer here is no. That is, I don't have something directly to
that to say. Slightly more indirectly, though, is none of what we're talking about really should
surprise us. What I mean by that is if we look at the way Christian authors, or is your case
Josephus, a Jewish author, write, they're always influenced and incorporating knowledge, texts,
oral traditions from other religious traditions into their own narrative. And so I think what would
be more surprising would be if early Islamic documents like the Quran didn't do this. The
fact that they do is kind of expected in the late ancient world, because this is a period of time
where people of multiple religious traditions are coexisting, circling with each other. They're in
specific sort of interpersonal relations. They're often reading each other's texts or listening
to each other's stories, or occasionally attending each other's worship. And so that mixture again
isn't in a self surprising from a historical standpoint. I think you're correct for us in
the 21st century, it seems more surprising, because we often have what is almost a naive belief
that at its origins, everything was clearly demarcated. And it seems like no, things were very
overlapping and mixed, even from the very beginning. We see this across a bunch of different religious
traditions. Wow. Thank you so much for that answer. I appreciate that. With Syriac Christians living
with Muslims, were there any famous debates between them where one was trying to convert the other?
If so, can you tell us about them? Yeah, of course. So perhaps the most famous,
it is the head of the East Syrian church, that huge large one that goes all the way to China.
In the late eighth and early ninth century, the name of the figure who was in charge of that
church for 43 years is a guy named Timothy, Timothy the first. It turns out that 400 pages
of Timothy's letters survive in only a single medieval manuscript that right now we think is
located somewhere near Baghdad, it's been put somewhere for safekeeping. And because of that
one sole medieval manuscript that miraculously makes it to the 20th and 21st century, we get
this huge corpus of material, of the writings from the head of this church. We have 59 letters from
him. And the largest of those letters, about 100 pages in length, is him recounting what he claims
is a two day audience with a Caliph, where he and the Caliph basically talk about Islam and
Christianity. Now, most scholars think, yeah, you know, actually, Timothy was part of the Caliph's
court. Remember, in this time period, he's heading the church where the majority of folks in the Islamic
empire are part of these churches. And as a result, he's an important figure within the Islamic
government. What we have is certainly not a transcript of that conversation. But we feel
fairly confident that he had conversations like that with folks like the Caliph. And so we do have
a number of these documents that are a narrative between a Christian and a Muslim
speaking about their religious differences. What makes this one so valuable is not just its length
and the fact that it probably reflects however imperfectly real conversation. But it's actually
the head of the largest church in what was then the Middle East, giving some explanation of what
he thought such a conversation might look like, however close it was to the real conversation
he had with the Caliph. So that's one example of this sort of theological encounter. And we
also know that these are encounters that are happening at much different levels. It's something
you might be talking about over the fence with your neighbor who's of a different religious
tradition than you are. And so one of the things that Christian sources try to do is give you some
basic information that if you had that conversation with your neighbor, something that sources
hope you'll convince them that you're right, or at the very least convince you that there are
answers to objections that your Muslim neighbor might have on your practice or belief. So it seems
like throughout society, whether it be kind of the everyday folks having these conversations
about religion as many people do in the 21st century, or at the highest echelon between the
Muslim Caliph and the head of the most geographically expansive church of the time period,
that this sort of question of how do we talk about Christianity and Islam? How can Muslims and
Christians either defend their beliefs, attack someone else's belief, or come to some sort of
compromise between them? It's something I find really fascinating and as a historian makes,
I actually do have some sources about. I love that. I really do. Did any early Muslims convert to
Syriac Christianity? If so, do you have any examples?
Yes, there is conversion going back and forth. There is a lot of discussion on the Syriac
Christian side of what you do about a Christian who converts to Islam, and then perhaps on their
deathbed decides to convert back to Christianity. What do you do with that person? Alternatively,
we do have sources suggesting that there are occasionally Muslims who are converting to
Christianity. Our suspicion is that that likely will be tied to familial networks. That is,
if you're marrying someone of a different religion, you're more likely to convert to their religion.
We have evidence going back and forth on that. One thing that we rarely have, unfortunately,
is we rarely actually have names of people. A lot of these narratives or even legal documents
about them are a little bit generic. Occasionally, when I do get a name, it's in what's clearly
kind of a narrative. I'm not quite sure about the historicity of that particular person,
but I do know from other sources that there is substantial movement from one of these religious
traditions to another. One of my favorite things, though, that this goes back to this idea of
blurriness of lines, is we do have Christian legal documents talking about baptizing Muslim
children. The idea here is that their Muslim parents are bringing their children to Christian
church to have their children baptized, not to become Christian, but simply because baptism
will give them some sort of spiritual protection. We have the heads of these churches saying,
yeah, that's exactly what we should do. It's not Christian baptism. They call the baptism John
the Baptist. That is, it's kind of like that half-baptism. But sure, go ahead and do this.
We hear from the early eighth century of a Christian bishop being asked,
what do we do when our Muslim neighbors come to us and they want to be blessed by Christian relics?
Can we let them do that? They're just like, oh, yeah, totally brought some of the Christian
relics. Or what do we do when Muslim comes to us with a demon-possessed child and is asking for
a Christian exorcist? And this makes perfect sense. If your kid is possessed with a demon,
I have two tweens, so I feel occasionally I know what this feels like. If there's demonic
possession of your kid, you want that demon out of them, and you don't really care about the
religious affiliation of the person who does that. And so these are the cases ranging from what we
might actually call conversion to more kind of everyday things of interested in the religious
power that might be in a tradition not your own, where we see different types and levels of crossing
over. Wow. So the next question might be a simple one here. If the Syriac Christians were the majority,
why didn't they just team up and overthrow the Muslims, especially when Muslims had anti-Trinitarian
beliefs? Well, okay. So two things. First of all, why should they? Like, I'm not trying to be facetious
here, but the fact that your rulers have a different religion than you do doesn't necessarily
inspire, oh my goodness, we need to rebel against them. Especially in terms of Syriac Christians,
because most of them had lived in what to them were hostile empires. That is, the more Eastern
ones lived under the Persian empires, they lived under Zoroastrian rulers for centuries.
The ones that are more in what would be today Iraq and particularly Syria in Eastern Turkey,
they did live under a Christian emperor, that is the Byzantine emperor, but that emperor had a
different theology, different Christology than them. They considered him to be heretical. They
certainly, the emperor certainly considered them to be heretical. And so we do have a case in that
case of Christians often being persecuted by a Christian government. And so being under Islam
isn't necessarily being more antagonistic than what these Christians have encountered in the
first place. And then you add the actual practicality of, do you really want an armed rebellion
against folks who seem to be really good in terms of the military ventures in the seventh century?
So we have no sources that are suggesting that Syriac Christians are a secret column within
Muslim society that would love to overthrow it. Thank you so much. In Islam, you are not allowed
to build new churches and synagogues. One can repair an existing one, if you will. Did early
Muslims allow or even fund new churches to be made? If so, why did they do this and go against
their own religion? I totally get what you're saying. A slight corrective, which is what you're
referring to, is a document that ends up being called the pack of Omar, which you're right,
has this prohibition against building new churches. We suspect that the form we have of that document
really doesn't come that way till the ninth century. That is their centuries before this.
And we know from archaeology and tons of evidence no one's listening to this. That is,
we have again for the letters of this guy named Timothy the first, he literally spells out how
much money the Caliph just gave him to help with monastery development. And this shouldn't be that
mysterious. That is, if you are the ruler of an empire at a time when the majority of your
population is Christian, it makes good sense to still be supportive of some portions of that
religion. Now, that doesn't mean there are not times. That was a horrible double negative.
Let's try it a different way. There are certainly times where we see specific rulers or other
early Muslims who are trying to prevent the building of a given church. And that is occasionally
successful and oftentimes not. And we certainly know from archaeological evidence that in the
seventh and eighth century, we have a lot of new churches being built. And so here there really
is a difference between what a given written source says is supposed to happen versus what's
really happening on the ground where even the Caliph himself is essentially disregarding this idea.
So I don't want to paint because I think it's a false picture that early Christians and Muslims
just held hands and saying kumbaya all the time. But it certainly wasn't at what we often depict
it as this idea of a clashing civilization. And the question of churches and the way they're
being built or repaired is just one of many strands where I think there is a strong division
between what we see being prescribed by certain texts and what's actually happening on the ground.
Wow. My final question, and this is in a vein of an interview I did with Robert G. Hoyland.
And of course, I'll have Dr. Shoemaker on soon as well. Wonderful people. I really enjoy it.
You have been fantastic. We discussed some of these sources, right? We went into, you know,
the fragment of the Arab conquest. And the whole point was this issue of when did Muhammad die?
Did he die in 632? Or do some of the outside voices kind of speak to him being around at the
conquest leading this conquest, if you will, to Jerusalem? And my thoughts were, we're talking
about Christian sources. Some of these might even be Syriac. And I'm going through like some of the
sources that Dr. Hoyland- You're going through my faves. So that's great. Yeah. I mean, I'm just
going through some of these. I'm flying through them. West Syrian Chronicles, obviously. We go
in the coins a little just to kind of tease people with some numismatics. Let them see like,
who is this guy? You know, curiosity killed the cat. So why don't we all do what the cat did?
So I just started popping these up and we went through those piece by piece. And it's something
that Dr. Hoyland, Shoemaker, I believe you'll probably fall in the same category. But I'd love
to just hear your thoughts. We don't know. We're not sure. But you won't get this answer. My point
was with traditionalists, they're not going to tell you that they're going to lean with their
tradition typically, unless they're probably an academic using a historical method, and they're
able to kind of somehow compartmentalize their tradition from their research. My question is,
if you were to put a number on how reliable you think these voices are of Muhammad being alive,
and I guess, could you be comfortable giving a number or a guess on where you would
feel on this? Or is there something you could say other than I pass?
This will be a particularly good conversation to have with Professor Steven Shoemaker as he wrote
an entire book on just that question of, when did the Prophet Muhammad die? Now that seems very
academic. Like, does it really matter if it's traditionally 632 or if it's 634 or 636? It just
seems like a number. The reason for Steven's work that that's so important, and I think you alluded
to this, is it makes the difference between whether Muhammad died before the military successes of
the Islamic conquest, or whether he is actually part of that conquest itself. And so that's where
that's where rubber hits the road. I'm not going to pass, but I suspect that Steven Shoemaker and I
may be a little bit different in our answers, because we have this conversation often with each
other. He is studied more than I have, and thinks that the very least 632, the traditional date,
should become circa 632. That is plus or minus a few years, and I'm very comfortable with that.
The challenge is most of the sources that seem to suggest that Muhammad was part of the conquest
are written by Christian authors. There's nothing wrong with that. But I'm not quite sure
how entirely informed they are. That is, I have a feeling, if you just went into a bar tonight,
and you, as part of a pub crawl, just said, hey everyone, you know, there's this Prophet Muhammad,
you might have heard of him before. Any idea who led the Islamic conquest? They're probably going to
say, well, of course, Muhammad did. That's the one Muslim figure we really know. And so occasionally,
I wonder if these later Christians are doing the exact same thing, which is they're thinking
through what they know of. Well, Muhammad is really important to the tradition. They're
wore these conquests that are incredibly successful. I bet he was still alive at that time.
Again, Steven Shoemaker has thought about this a lot more, but that is the one reservation I have,
is when Christian sources, especially some of them that are quite late,
there's a good chance they don't actually know better than you and I do.
So I'm very comfortable with saying plus or minus a few years, but I haven't yet been convinced in
the camp that it has to be that Muhammad was the head of the conquest. And I guess flipping
that coin around, because there's always two sides, how confident can we be that the Muslims
are accurately getting the date of when he dies? You see? No, exactly. Yeah, that's the difficulty.
And I guess it's a big, I don't know. I think the one,
one thing that might be in favor of them getting it roughly right is simply
were the Prophet Muhammad heading the conquests? And given how successful those were militarily,
one would think that early Muslim sources would want to make a big deal about that.
Like that makes for a really good narrative. Now, this isn't a particularly strong historical
argument, but the fact that our earliest sources don't include something that would help them
might be an indication that they just knew he wasn't part of them. But again,
we're kind of doing a little bit of inside baseball here, because we don't have strength
of sources to be certain one way or another. And that's why I even threw it out there to
Dr. Hoylund. And I said to him, is it possible that by the time this narrative has come up
in the Islamic tradition, they're trying to somehow separate themselves from the Jews?
I mean, if you consider they were with Jews in the conquest, the Jews would have loved going to
rebuild the temple. They have their reasons. And maybe there's an inside baseball argument
I can make where it sounds like they want to separate themselves from the Jews and somehow
have the Prophet die before, or maybe there's an oral tradition that said he did die,
because there's already there's so many traditions about the Prophet himself.
Which one really goes and which one's the true one? And that's already a difficulty as well.
And again, from just a historical perspective, the challenge is we have so few sources for the
seventh century, especially for Muslim authors, that it means we can do a lot of speculation.
We can try to weigh probabilities. But the thing that frustrates historians like myself
is we just don't have the sources to put forward an argument we find entirely convincing yet.
Maybe that will change. Or alternatively, maybe the very beginnings of Islam will remain much a
mystery simply because we don't have evidence one way or another on these key questions.
And that's true for a lot of ancient history. So I don't mean pessimistic about that. There's
some things historians we can be helpful with. But unfortunately, in the very beginnings of Islam,
it's harder because we have a limited source material.
If I may tease you with a funny question, this is not going to take a lot of work
as we're leaving. Do you think we, and I mean, this is totally a guess, but it's an optimistic
hype, do you think we'll find a Dead Sea Scroll recovery of something Islamic?
Oh my gosh, that'd be great. One of the things, and you had Sean Anthony here before,
and speaking to Sean that really stuck with me, is he mentioned that right now one of the most
important resources for the study of early Islam is Twitter. Because apparently there are a bunch
of folks in Saudi Arabia who are going around with their cell phones, taking photographs of
ancient Arabic inscriptions we've never seen before. And so there is so much more that is likely
out there. If not a cache of documents like the Dead Sea Scrolls, at least archaeological material,
culture, and scriptural evidence, that really hasn't been accessed yet. So I do suspect if we
have a 25th reunion of our conversation today, it's going to look differently because I do feel
very optimistic that there is more evidence that is slowly coming to light. And I'm just excited
to see what that means for some of the bigger questions you raised today.
Same here. Thank you so much. This has been fantastic. If you were to tell a brand new
person who's tuning in right now, they're just now embarking upon your work,
which of the three would you suggest they jump on first?
I would say start with the invitation to Seerat Christianity. Don't need to read it cover to
cover my goodness. It's like 460 pages. But just find some places there under topics you're interested
in and kind of see what this Eastern Christian tradition might, how you could explore it in
a different way. So that would for me in many ways be the starting point. It's also helpful
because it has three other really smart editors. And as a result, it's a collection that I think
we're all pretty proud of. So that'd be my entry point. It also has introductory material.
That means it's not presupposing any sort of knowledge about these topics. So to me, that's
the entry way. Thank you so much for that. I hope everybody goes and gets you a copy. If you're
interested in this stuff, this is definitely good material. We're going to be bringing more of this
on to MythVision. Let's give a round of applause. Dr. Michael Penn, thank you so much for joining me.
Michael, I meant. See, I go back to my tradition. That's what I do. Thank you for joining me today.
And I look forward to reading more of your work and having you back at some point for further
conversation. Thank you, Derek. It's been quite a pleasure. Thank you. And never forget, ladies and
gentlemen, we are MythVision.
Thank you.
