Welcome back to MythVision Podcast. I'm your host, Eric Lambert, ladies and gentlemen.
I've been asking the question of historicity, whether Jesus existed historically or not,
for quite some time on MythVision. You know, I was a hardcore myth-assist for a long time
and now I'm like, okay, taking the question more seriously saying, could there be a guy? And I
leaned at the could, but it could be wrong. I say that as someone who's not dogmatic. I'm talking
to Dr. Richard Carrier today and welcome to MythVision once again. Yeah, glad to be here.
I wanted to let everyone know, I saw that you do online courses. You've wrote peer-reviewed material
on the subject of whether Jesus existed. There's probably not a prominent historicist in history.
You haven't read on the subject matter. I haven't read nearly as much as you. I say that to humble
myself and realize maybe I'm missing something and I say that honestly. Yeah, it would be,
it was a six-year postdoc research project that I was paid pennies to do, but still,
you know, it was a lot of work doing this and I wouldn't have done it had it not been for
people wanting to see the research done. And I definitely haven't done the research that you
have. So to act like I know or be confident in a historical Jesus in any way without really
lifting all the rocks, I kind of want to say I'm agnostic really ultimately, though it makes sense
that there could have been a guy in my head. Yeah, and you know, in my formal book, the
academic peer-reviewed monograph challenging the historicity of Jesus, that actually my
upper bound margin of error is one in three chance that there was, right? So it's definitely
plausible. And you can also talk credibly about like, well, if there was, what is the most credible
version of historical Jesus? There's really a scale. There's a lot of plausible, they're all
contradictory, but there's a lot of plausible versions of historical Jesus that all fit the
evidence, right? So it's this question of what is more likely? What is most likely? And that's the
real challenge. So the thing with the course, so I teach this course on the historicity of Jesus.
And the goal of the course and what I add to where I structure it is I have the best case
for historicity and the best case against. And then I want the students to try and poke holes
in either side, right? Like, just get all the information once you have the information that
you need. And that's what I do is I select the information that's most important to make these
judgments. And then if the students need more information to make a judgment about something,
they ask in class. And that's one of the cool things about the class is like, we go through like,
well, what about this? What about that? And so on. And then I can give them information,
I can give them even bibliographies if they want to go further into different things. And so we
explore these different options and you really try to like beat the evidence from every angle that
we can, right? And the benefit of, and I encourage historians to take the course, because I don't
necessarily assume the course is going to convince you. That's not the point that the
point is by the time you finish the course, you will know way more stuff about why this debate
makes sense. And then you will actually be more competent, actually more skilled and knowledgeable
about how to even defend historicity, because you'll know which arguments really don't hold up.
And therefore, which ones you really need to focus on and really challenge. And then also you'll
learn like the best arguments for mythicism. I don't teach the bad ones. So like, if whatever
is probably not taught in my course, is probably not a good method for arguing for mythicism either.
So, so you gain all these skills and suited for historicists, you learn what the best case against
your position is. So you can steal man it, right? And so I think that's, that's, I think crucial
for anyone who wants to defend historicity as well. And so I heavily encourage historicists to come
in and engage with the work and so on. It's not just a rah, rah propaganda thing for, for mythicism,
it is definitely an exploration, hitting all of the key points. And then so that we can figure out
does this make sense? And what does make sense in context? And that's the most important thing is
getting that context because we can't anachronistically just assume we understand how the ancient world
worked. And so that's what the course is about. And it's one of my most popular courses. And so I
do get students in it. Now that I'm teaching it every month, the classes tend to be small because
people spread out throughout the year. But, but I don't care. I don't care if it's a lot of people
or a few people. It's always a good course. So it's, I'd like to make a plug. Yeah, in light of this,
I want to let everybody know that is watching myth vision, you guys have watched my journey,
and you say, Oh, Derek's definitely leaning a historicist angle. That doesn't mean I'm dogmatic,
right? So I don't, I don't line myself up with Bart Ehrman and his anti mythicist position.
I'm not that kind of guy. You guys know, I'm no expert. I'm not an academic. Maybe Bart sees
something I don't. Maybe he doesn't. I don't know. I just, I'm being honest, like, I really want to
know what can we know and how, because the evidence is not the best in the world. And so like to try
and say it one way or the other is like, yeah. And so I want to join you, which I went ahead and I
threw you it's 50 bucks. If I'm not mistaken, $49 for each course, any month, I teach 10,
10 different courses in both philosophy and history every month. And they're all subjects
I'm published in in one form or another. And, and they all function kind of the same way.
But, but it's $49 a class. It's, it's really simple. It's one month. It's study at your own pace.
Do as much or as little work as you want. Like, so it's basically, that's how it works. But it's
basically organized reading, challenge questions, conversations, and then all it's basically the
opportunity a month long Q&A with an expert. So you can ask me all the questions you want.
And you'll get like a detailed answer, possibly even bibliographies if you want them, you know,
that, that kind of says you're basically buying my attention for a month, essentially. And I love
it. And then also the concentration of focusing. I'm telling you what to focus on,
what you need to know, and then making it as efficient as possible for you to get that info.
And so you can discuss it. This is great because next month, I'm going to be seeing you in person
in California. And so I think it will be wonderful if I'm also taking courses from you, or at least
this course specifically. I'm planning on, yeah, especially this one makes no sense, right?
Yeah, because I'm going to be doing in person interviews. And for like all my Patreon members
who ask questions, I get to ask them to you and record them in California with Dennis McDonald.
Like we're going to be all hanging out, right? So it's going to be awesome. It's going to be cool.
And yeah, but I wanted to say for all those who are watching, if you've had this question, if you
want to join in this next month, I'm taking the course, take it with me. Come take it with me.
Let's check out what Dr. Carrier has to say. If you totally disagree with Carrier,
even more reason to know the nook and cranny of everything he has against what you think.
And at the end of the day, we can do a live stream after this month is up,
where we'll have Dr. Carrier come on live on MythVision. You guys can ask questions, you know,
we'll have fun. We'll have fun. And I want to learn from you. I know there's stuff that I'm missing
or it'll be good to have you, someone who leans mythicist, take the jobs at historicist in a way
that allows us to really like think heavy and hard about how we can ask these questions from the
historicist angle and to see your responses. I'm excited. I'm excited. Yeah. Yeah. I want to see
ultimately, I mean, I've wanted to see this for a while and it hasn't happened yet,
but I'm waiting for an actually a peer reviewed defense of historicity, like a book that focuses
just on that question and does it well so that I can tell people like, here's the best defense of
historicity. Here's the best defense against. So you can compare the two books. I want that.
And I think going through this course will help people start to understand what it is we need in
that kind of the best defense of historicity. And I, so yeah, I would love to have students both
pro and con come in, ask all the questions they want. And it will also inspire you, like you
mentioned, you might be able to get some stuff live with me on camera, me and Dennis McDonnell
possibly even coming next month. So, so yeah, September, start September 1st. So yeah,
everybody go in, go to my website, richardcarrier.info. There's right up the top menu. This is take
classes. That'll just follow the links through there and you'll get the instructions about
a register and join us. I would love it. It would be great to have a bunch of people in
really picking this apart and trying to figure it out. Me too. I definitely want to do this because
I also want to show how one should be. I'm, I'm trying to be a kind of that role model,
so to speak, figure to let people know, like, don't be dogmatic, like the evidence is not that.
Yeah, you're right. You've been really good at that, I think. And that's also that people forget
that that's also what I do too. Really people assume I'm just like every other dogmatic mythosist.
Right. No, I actually, there's a possibility there was Jesus one and three, like I said,
you know, I think it's somewhere between one and 12,000 and one and three. So I think it's
very uncertain, but that's the point is the evidence is so poor and so problematic that
you can't have a certainty in this either way. And so, so that's what you just have to wrestle
with that. Like, a lot of people are uncomfortable with ambiguity and uncertainty, but no, you just
got to get comfortable with it. So it's really just a question of, of, I think, pulling people out
of their dogmatism and then letting them figure out how can they move this probability around?
Like, where should this probability really be? How confident should I be in either side and why?
And so that's part of what we teach in the course.
So excited, literally. Look, if you guys will join with me, if you're not a Patreon member,
obviously, I'd love to see you guys be there because you can private message me. We can
constantly communicate, but join the course and we're going to do this, which this coming up
month, September? That's right. So it'll, the course will start September one. There's no
scheduled events. So you can come in and come and go whenever you want. It's all, you know,
bullet and board style. It's Google groups. So, so you don't, you know, there's no time limit
or anything. But it does have like weekly assignments. So like readings and challenge
questions and discussion and stuff. So, so if you've got to knock out, you've got to keep on
schedule with it with the four weeks, but you can work as hard or as not, you can go in there and
just be lazy and just watch or ask throughout questions and things like that. It's better,
obviously, if you do the readings thoroughly, because that's kind of the point is to focus on
which things you should read and why. But, but yeah, so it starts September first,
and you can register anytime starting now. And, and when follow the registration instructions
and then everybody will get an invite day or two before September one, and then they can all
pour in and start working on the course. Let's do it. I'm excited. Let me know if you guys want
to do that. I mean, I'll see you there. Hopefully you guys sign up. I did sign up already. And I'm
going to be taking the course September first, and we're going to get that whole month out of the
way. At the end, we'll be talking about, you know, what we figured out, like what we think about
the topic. And of course, I'll have Dr. Carrier join us again, and we will do a live hopefully
where we can talk to you guys and, you know, just let the world kind of hear like what,
what the thinking process is here. So thank you so much, Dr. Carrier and go support him.
Not just this, like this is a way that, you know, you're not in an academic setting where
meaning like politically how academics, you know, make you think you have to do this and that
you go where you want and where, you know, the evidence kind of leads you without having to
steer you. That's right. Yeah. But this is a way to support you by also taking your courses. So
yeah, absolutely. And it's an opportunity to benefit from my knowledge. You know, I've worked
so hard at gathering all this stuff. I love imparting it and helping people figure out how
best to defend things. So I, for example, I do the counter apologetics course, which is everything
I've learned debating Christians so I can like give you clues on how and tips about how to better
argue and debunk Christianity and fight against Christian apologetics and things like that.
Right. So any one of my courses are like that, like, and I have things like in philosophy as well.
I have like the science and philosophy of free will. Weirdly, one of my, it's actually my favorite
course. And it's one of the most popular courses again, because this is a subject people want
to talk about. But I see it as an excellent touchstone where you can learn everything about
philosophy, everything from aesthetics to politics to metaphysics to epistemology and semantics,
like all aspects of philosophy touch on this one subject. So you can actually start to like
learn how to be a good philosopher just by tackling this one subject. And so I do that with
all of my courses. They all like, well, we'll come out of them with, with more skills and more
knowledge and that you'll be able to be more effective at the things you want to do and argue.
Wow. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll see you there. Thank you, Dr. Carrier.
