Paul's associated with a lot of churches. So how many churches do Paul have?
He had a ministry of 30 years. Let's just say he wrote each church twice a year.
Okay, you've got 20 churches. He writes each of them twice a year. That's 40,
and he did it for 30 years. That's 1200 letters. We've got seven. He started out by saying,
what do you know about the gospel of Judas? Well, we don't have a gospel of Judas.
The National Geographic woman's on this phone and asked me what I think of the gospel of Judas.
I said, and she said, well, would you think it's significant if we found it?
I said, well, I think it's significant. Yes, it's significant. She said, well,
we think we got it. Song of Songs is the most interesting case. It's really nothing about it.
I think it's Solomon. I mean, it's about a young man who is passionate about a young woman.
They're both gorgeous. And the reason they did that is because they started to allegorize it.
So that in ancient Israel, the standard allegory was that this is not talking about a young man
and a young woman who had the hots for each other. This is talking about God's love for his people.
We are MythVision. Welcome back to MythVision Podcast, another show with Dr. Bart de Aerman.
And I hope you're doing well today, Dr. Aerman. I am so far so good.
Last time, I think you had COVID. I'm not going to lie. You're cold.
I didn't have COVID, but I did have a cold. Yeah, it was pretty heavy. So I was like,
what is going on? Yeah, I actually, I tested it wasn't COVID. That's yet to come.
Well, let's hope that doesn't happen. We'll jump right in if that's okay with you.
Great. Question number one, what is your opinion regarding the hypothesis put forth by Walter
Bauer during the last century that most of the earliest Christian communities for which there
is available information were heretical in their beliefs by the standards of the proto-Orthodox
church? Right. So do you mind if I provide a little bit of background?
Walter Bauer was a German theologian and lexicographer. His Greek dictionary is still the
one everybody uses who does Greek New Testament. And he's a very famous philologist and thinker.
And he wrote this book called Orthodoxy and Heresy and earliest Christianity. It came out in 1934.
He wrote it in German. And he argued that the traditional way of understanding heresy and
orthodoxy was wrong. What people thought for many, many centuries, going back to the
second, third, fourth centuries was that Christianity started out as a single thing. Jesus
taught his disciples the truth. They passed it off to their followers, the bishops of the churches
became, were in that line. And so the truth had always been handed on. And you find it in the
Nicene Creed and you find it, you know, in the Bible is like, it's all been one thing. And every
now and then there'd be some heretic who comes along, who decides to mess things up. And he's
either willful or stupid or demon inspired, usually demon inspired. And he'll end up saying
something else like there are two gods, not just one God, or Jesus isn't really human and divine.
He's just divine, you know, just human. And so you have these heretics coming along every now and
then twisting the truth. And so with that model, that, that model that was made especially famous
by the church historian Eusebius in the early fourth century, in that model, what we think of
Orthodoxy, the correct belief is original. It goes back all the way. It's what the majorities
always thought. And heresies are these kinds of offshoots, these kinds of, Bauer came along
in 1934 and said, no, that's probably not right. What Bauer did is he went region by region
throughout Christianity. So he went to Egypt, he didn't go there. I mean, he writes about Egypt,
he writes about Syria, he writes about Asia Minor, he writes about Rome. And he finds the earliest
surviving evidence for what Christianity was in each of these places. And it turns out our earliest
evidence for all of these places like solid evidence of what's going on in Syria is almost
always what later came to be called heresies. So that the earliest form in, in most of the
places he surveys was not Orthodox. So what he argues is that it's not that there is one thing
that came down from Jesus all the way down. And there's these offshoot is that in early Christianity
there were lots of different groups with lots of different views. And that they, they fought it out.
And they tried to get more converts and some got more converts than others. And eventually one form
emerged. This form that emerged called itself Orthodox, believing the right things, and said
that everybody else was a heresy. And then they rewrote the history of the engagement. And so
what is my opinion about that? I think it's right. I mean, Bauer, I don't think Bauer specifics are
right. I mean, Bauer, you know, he was writing, he was writing, you know, in the 1930s, you know,
so 90 years ago he was doing it. And we've got, we've learned a lot about Christianity since then.
But one thing I think we do know is that there were lots of different kinds of Christianity
from the early, from the very beginning. I mean, just read, sorry, I'm going on about this one,
but it's like, it's like a big point in my, in my scholarly career is showing that this is the
basic view, the basic view is probably right. Even when you get to the New Testament, go back as
far as the New Testament, people don't really appreciate the fact that every time Paul writes
a letter, he's got enemies who are Christians that he's trying to refute. Well, you know,
if we had their letters, it'd be really interesting because we just think, well, everybody was kind
of agreed with Paul, right? Yeah, except for all the people who he's writing to. And so, so I think
that probably ours, ours, we were basically right and that it's even more complicated than he thought
and maybe even more diverse than he thought early on. Thank you so much. That was really well put.
I appreciate it. Question number two, and it's, you know, some of these might be a little bit
longer just to get my question out and the ideas around it. It's not for you. It's technically
for the audience to keep up with me. So do you have an opinion or have come across any scholarly
publications or discussions on whether Jesus and or Paul may have suffered from mental illness
as recognized by 21st century science? It is safe to say both were inside the apocalyptic bubble
of their day and their false predictions about the return of the Son of Man Jesus or Jesus himself.
Paul made, sorry, Paul were made on this basis. However, Mark does say Jesus's family thought
him mad when he first preached in Nazareth. Were they right? Also, Jesus supposedly talked to the
devil during his temptation and may have thought he was the promised Messiah. In the case of Paul,
the vision he had on the Damascus road appears to have been one of the many since he was also
mentioned being transported up to the third heaven in another passage, as well as additional
instances of receiving revelations. Neurologists have discovered there's a part of the brain
that when stimulated will cause a person to have visions with some thoughts or with thoughts, sorry,
taking on religious cast. Do all these actions inspire confidence? Both men were in their right
minds, Dr. Amon? It's a very good question and I'm sorry to say is unanswerable. The reason it's
unanswerable is because it is very hard to tell when somebody is what you kind of might colloquially
say losing their mind or that they're having some kind of neurological event that is leading to
visionary experiences. Even today, when a psychoanalyst can analyze somebody and spend
weeks, months, years with them, it's very difficult to analyze what the psychological state is and
neurologists, of course, have to actually do serious neurological tests. We have no way of
testing Jesus or Paul and we don't have enough information about them in order to do any kind
of reliable analysis. Just with respect to Jesus, for example, right, the gospel say that he was
talking to the devil and the wilderness. But that doesn't mean that the historical Jesus really
thought he was talking to the devil and the wilderness. This is a story told about him.
And so it doesn't mean that he actually, what, that he thought he had done that.
So the story, the first story we have of this is in the gospel of Matthew and it's 85 years later,
it's in about the year 85. So it's about 55 or 60 years after Jesus' life by somebody who didn't
know Jesus and probably never talked to anybody who knew Jesus and he's telling a story he heard.
And it doesn't mean that Jesus was really thought that he was talking to the devil the whole time.
The other thing is that it's very easy to say that people who have different worldviews from ours
are crazy. But it doesn't mean that they're clinically crazy. They might be, but it doesn't
mean they're clinically crazy because people in different worlds, it's so hard for us to
understand that people have different worldviews that seem to us to be bizarre, really bizarre.
And just because somebody has one of these bizarre worldviews that seems to us to be bizarre,
doesn't mean they're crazy. It just means that they're brought up in a different world
understanding different things. There are plenty of people today who believe in demons,
who believe in demons and they're not crazy. They might be, I mean some of them might be,
but they're not crazy to believe in demons. I mean, I used to believe in demons. I used to
believe I could cast out demons. It's even out of my mind, it just meant that I had this weird view.
And so yeah, so I don't think you can psychoanalyze somebody 2000 years later,
especially Jesus. You don't even have anything, you don't have any of his writings,
let alone, you know, recordings of what he said. And so yeah, I don't think you can do that.
Thank you so much. Question number three, when the predictions made by Jesus and Paul regarding
the appearance of the Son of Man could be Jesus himself, Paul fell to materialize or I'm sorry,
they fell to materialize. Do scholars know of any other movements that cropped up within the
innocent Christian community to revise these fellow predictions prior to the rise of the
new prophecy of Montanus in the 170s? No, that's a complicated question. I know. Are people going
to know what you're talking about? Let me unpack it a bit. So Jesus predicted that there was going
to be a cataclysmic event where there would be a cosmic judge who came from heaven to judge the
earth and he called this person the Son of Man. In the Gospels, when he talks about the Son of Man,
often it's clear he's talking about himself. The Son of Man must go to Jerusalem and be rejected by
the scribes and elders and be executed and raised from the dead. So, you know, he's talking about
himself the Son of Man there. But there are other passages in the New Testament where Jesus talks
about the Son of Man and there's nothing to suggest he's talking about himself. That's when he
talked about this cosmic judge coming on the earth to judge people for how they how they live and how
they behave. This was a common belief in Jewish apocalyptic thought that there would be some kind
of angelic being or some kind of being that would come and would judge the earth at the end of time
and that it was going to happen soon. Jesus appears to have thought that. Paul, after Jesus' death,
also thought that Jesus was coming back. Paul actually never says that the Son of Man is coming.
He doesn't use that term Son of Man, but he does talk about Jesus returning from heaven in judgment.
And so, Paul appears to have thought that Jesus was this Son of Man that he had heard about. Jesus
probably heard about Jesus talking about. And so, your question is, well, yeah, so that didn't happen,
right? And so, that's always been a problem for readers of the New Testament because Jesus does
say it's going to happen within his own generation and that his disciples, some of his disciples would
be alive when it happens and they obviously weren't. And Paul seems to think, Paul pretty much says,
in 1 Corinthians 15 and 1 Thessalonians 4, that he'll be alive when it happens and that didn't
happen. And so, your question is, did anybody else continue things going to happen like next
week sometime or next month before the Montanist? That's where your question got tricky because
the Montanists were a group of Christians who were, theologically, they were just, you know,
they were proto-Orthodox Christians. They had typical orthodox beliefs, but they did believe
that the end was coming soon and Jesus was going to come back very soon in their lifetime. And then,
in fact, he was going to come to the town of Papusa in what's now Turkey. Yeah, well, that didn't
happen either. And so, they were a group expecting the imminent end. And the question is, were there
people between Paul and the Montanist who thought the end was coming right away? And the answer is,
yes. There were lots of people. The expectation did fade out over time. And it's interesting,
just when you read the early Christian writings themselves, Jesus predicts this in the earliest
Gospels in Matthew and Mark and Luke. He doesn't predict it when he gets to the Gospel of John.
When you get to later Gospels like the Gospel of Thomas, he preaches against it. And so,
clearly, since it didn't happen, people are saying, yeah, he didn't really say that.
Because otherwise, he'd be wrong. But people did continue thinking it was going to happen soon
in their own day. And not everyone did, but it continued to be a thing, and it continued to
be a thing all through history. I mean, as you know, there are millions of people today
who still think that when Jesus said it's going to happen soon, he meant soon for that,
2,000 years later. That is so true. That's all my next books about, by the way,
the book I've just finished writing is that people thinking it's coming on Thursday.
I really look forward to potentially interviewing you to promote that one, because I'm a fan of
looking at this apocalyptic stuff. And the rise of Islam in the seventh century, there was a lot
going on in the Christian world with this whole, the end is about to happen. And Muhammad may have
fit this apocalyptic character in his own little region. So there's something there. Question number
four. What role did the book of Enoch play in the early Christian movement? In his epistle, Jude
quotes from this book. What are your thoughts? Yeah. This is another complicated question,
and people may not know the book of Enoch. You're referring actually to first Enoch. There are
several books that are in the Enoch literature. Enoch, people may know, is a figure from the
Bible. He's the seventh generation descendant from Adam. And so he's the one who was so righteous
that God took him up to heaven without dying. And so in Jewish thought, starting a couple
hundred years before Jesus, Enoch became a big figure in some circles, because people started
speculating. These were kind of like Jewish mystics who had this kind of apocalyptic view of things.
About Enoch as somebody who could reveal the truth. He was a human, so he knows how to communicate
to the rest of us, and he was taken up to heaven. So like he's seen a lot up there. And so they have
these books that they wrote that are connected with Enoch. In which allegedly Enoch is writing
what he knows about the heavenly realm and what's about to happen and things like that. So some of
these books are apocalyptic in nature. They have this kind of vision of God's in charge,
even though it doesn't look like it. And if you see what's really going on in heaven, you'll make
be able to make sense of what's happening here on earth. The book of first Enoch that we have,
so this is going to get even more complicated. The book of first Enoch that we have is actually
five different writings written by five different authors at five different times that somebody
else spliced together. And so the first one is the most interesting. For me, it's the most
interesting. For other people, others are more interesting. But for me, the first one is the
most interesting. It's the longest. It's called the book of Watchers. It's chapters one through 36.
And it's a riff on this passage in Genesis 6 that people ignore, but they really ought to pay
attention to this passage. This is the passage in Genesis 6 before the flood, where the angels of,
where the sons of God, who are these angels, look down and see the daughters of men and see
that they're beautiful and they want to have sex with them. And so they come down and they have
sex with these women. Excuse me. It's the angels right now calling you. They just call and say,
man, you're in trouble. What are you even talking about here? Prepare to meet thy fate.
Yeah. So these angels come down and have sex with, and in one strand of the Genesis story
itself, that's why God destroys the world, is because the offspring are giants and they're
taken over the place. And so the book of first Enoch, the book of the Watchers, gives an extended
account of this. Even names who these people are, names their names, talked about what they do and
how awful they are and how God punishes them. The book of Jude does quote the book of Enoch,
and which shows that for the author of Jude, this was an important book. It doesn't necessarily mean
that he saw it as a scriptural text. It was not a scriptural text in Judaism, historically. It did
end up being attributed as having kind of scripture-like qualities, canonical qualities, in some
parts of Judaism. But it never, of course, made it into the Hebrew Bible. How influential was it
on early Christians? It's really hard to say because there are allusions to it. There may be
allusions to it in 1 Peter, for example. It may be that the author of Revelation knows it. I mean,
there are lots of options. But Jude is the only direct quotation that we have in the earliest
Christian writings. And so it's hard to know. I mean, would Jesus have known this book? I doubt it
because I doubt it, but it's possible and so on. Thank you so much. I appreciate that.
Question number five. What are the Bodmer papyri and their importance to scholars? Is it true they
are generally dated to around 200 and include the earliest extant versions of Jude and first and
second Peter plus major portions of the Gospel John, which in turn excludes the story of the woman
taken in adultery? Also, aren't some pagan works included, such as three previously unknown plays
by the Greek playwright Menander? Am I at a doctoral exam here? What? The Bodmer papyri?
Wow. I have to say to our audience, I didn't throw this at you and say,
hey, here's some time for you to prep or anything. It was just off the cuff.
The Bodmer papyri are a collection of papyri manuscripts that were discovered
in Egypt in the early 20th century. Not the earliest 20th century, but before the mid-century.
They contain a number of different kinds of documents. We call them papyri, by the way,
because the ancient writing material in very ancient Christian times was papyrus,
which was manufactured out of the papyrus reed. And so they didn't use paper. They had a way of
taking these plants and making them into a writing surface. It was very, very good, nearly as good
as paper in many ways. But so the oldest manuscripts of Christianity are on papyrus.
And so the Bodmer papyri were very significant for a lot of reasons. One is that they contained
copies of some of the books of the New Testament and also other books. And so
they do include books of some of the unusual Catholic epistles. I think it's 1st and 2nd
Peter and James, which is significant because these books were not widely circulated early on.
But these do date from, they're usually dated around the year 200 or so. And so they'd be very
early. They are fragmentary in nature. They do include large sections of Luke and John
and are our earliest copies of Luke and John. And they're not complete copies of Luke and John,
so they're fragmentary. They've got fragments. That fragment is called P75. It's the 75th
papyrus. So it's P for papyrus, the 75th that was catalogued. And it's an excellent manuscript of
Luke and John that helped confirm what scholars had been long saying, such as the woman taking
the adultery wasn't originally there and other things. This P75 is a very accurate manuscript
by what we can tell. There's another manuscript called P66, which also has John in it that is a
highly sloppy manuscript that described, made tons of mistakes and corrected his mistakes all over
the place. And then another corrector came in and corrected his mistakes. It shows that some
scribes were more careful around the year 200 and some were not either because they were incompetent
or they were sleepy or they didn't care or whatever. I mean, they weren't trained as well. I don't know.
But so, yeah. So this papyrus collection, though, does include other writings. And it's very
interesting because there are evangelicals who will say that since 1st and 2nd Peter and James
are in this Bodmer papyrus, that shows that Christians considered them to be canonical
scripture. The problem is that this manuscript that has 1st and 2nd Peter and James in it
also has books that are not in the New Testament, like the Psalms of Solomon and
3rd Corinthians. It's like, yeah, okay, that doesn't work because we're going to say those are
therefore canonical. So what were the others then? So it was a major find and that was
significant, especially for New Testament textual critics trying to get the earliest manuscripts
of the New Testament. Thank you so much. I apologize for this exam that we're testing
your memory, aren't we? Bring the fingers on. Let's go. We're already in. Question number six.
What is your opinion regarding Christianity's impact on preserving the Greek and Roman
literary and cultural heritage once it took full effect, if you will, of the Roman government
around the latter half of the 4th century? For example, it is estimated well over 95% of the
Roman and 90% of Greek pagan writings were destroyed or otherwise not recopied for posterity.
Christians thought many of these writings were from the devil. It is known roving monks on occasion
would burn books, which church leaders encouraged followers to purge their libraries of pagan
material. Christian mobs in Alexandria helped destroy the pagan Serapium and participated
in the murder of pagan philosopher Hypatia in 415. The only Roman novel to survive in its entirety
is in Metamorphosis, the golden ass by, uh, is it, uh, Epileus? Yeah. Even though many more
such works were written, the rebalged satiricon only survives in fragments. Even important works
from such ancient pagan authors as Livy, Tacitus, Archiminides have major lacunae while the
complete works of others are only known through citations. It's a really, really good question
and it's really difficult to answer. There, there's a huge loss of Greek and Roman literature
that we would love, love to have. Just to give you one example, one further example,
my brother is an expert on the Greek, on the Roman playwright, Plautus, who is a very, very
funny author. He writes these plays that are outrageously funny and some of them are kind of
body. They're like little rocks. They're, they're really good, but uh, a lot, most of this plays
we just have a little fragments. And so like my brother, my brother, one of the things he's done,
my brother's a classicist, but what, what he's done is he's taking, like, you'll just have a
whiner to and he'll try and figure out the entire plot of the play was based on, you know, and so
like you got to do that and you hear about all sorts of things that people wrote. We don't have
them anymore. My view is that Christian book burnings, where Christians with burning books
were, were few and far between. I don't think it happened often. There certainly were some bishops
who might have encouraged that kind of thing, but, and you actually get it in the book of acts,
right? There's this, in the book of acts, you get this book burning of these magic books. And so
sometimes books were seen to be dangerous and they were destroyed. More often they simply
weren't copied. I mentioned that, you know, our oldest books around papyrus. Papyrus is a good
writing material, but, you know, after a few hundred years, you know, before we had acid-free
paper, you know, if you get a book that was written 200 years ago, that wasn't as, isn't it, you know,
it starts crumbling. And papyrus is like that. So if you don't copy, you know, say a treatise of
Seneca, if you don't copy, if somebody doesn't copy it, then, you know, it just, it just disappears.
So you don't have to destroy, just don't copy it. And that happened a lot. And one reason it happened
a lot is because in the Middle Ages, when books were being copied in the West and in the East,
in the, in what had been the Roman Empire, in that, that area, Christian areas, books were being
copied by those who were literate and about the only people who were literate were scribes and
scribes were, were in Christian monasteries. They were monks. And so if you've got a monk in the year,
you know, 1200, and he's got a choice of copying the letters of Paul or the plays of Plautus,
which is he going to do? He's, you know, he's going to copy scripture or some like faking thing.
And so, yeah, so they didn't copy these things very often. And it's a real, real shame.
To put it in the other perspective, though, I should point out that the vast majority of early
Christian literature was also lost. I mean, just, you know, a minute ago, I mentioned like Paul's
opponents. Some of them obviously wrote letters and they wrote, they wrote things, well, we don't
have any of them. And you just think about Paul himself. This is a really kind of interesting
thought experiment. So we have in the New Testament, we have 13 letters written by the claim to be
written by Paul and scholars are scholars debate, some of them, but most critical scholars today
think that seven are certainly by Paul. And the other six are either doubted or weren't written
by Paul. Most critical scholars say that he didn't write first and second Timothy and Titus and probably
not Ephesians, Colossians, the second Thessalonians, and they have arguments for this, right? There
are reasons for thinking that. Let's just say that Paul wrote, we have seven letters from Paul.
They're called the seven undisputed letters. So in the New Testament, Paul's associated with a lot
of churches. He found a bunch of churches and he certainly founded churches we don't hear about
in either his letters or in the book of Acts. So I made churches to Paul have. Let's say, so he had
a ministry of 30 years. Let's, let's say that he founded 20, 25 churches. How often did he write
each church? Well, we have evidence he's writing a Corinthian church repeatedly. And so let's just
say he wrote each church twice a year over the course of 30 years. Okay. And so, okay, you've
got 20 churches. He writes each of them twice a year. That's 40. And he did it for 30 years.
That's 1200 letters. We've got seven. And that's only if he's writing them twice a year.
It's like, I mean, and that's one guy. And so, I mean, it's like, oh my God, we're, yeah, so we are,
we are, we have, it's been a huge loss to Roman and Greek literature. It's also a huge loss that
we don't have more Christians. Thank you for answering that. And that makes you really think,
it makes you wonder what we don't have. Oh my God. Question number seven.
With the recent advances in forensic science, can examples be cited where this technology has
been applied to ancient documents or other artifacts from early Christianity carbon 14 dating
has been used for decades to determine the approximate dates of some manuscripts and other
artifacts containing carbon, the most famous example being the late dating of the shroud of
Turin. However, recent developments in DNA analysis means usable profiles can be obtained
from as few as a half dozen viable cells. While advances in spec spectral analysis suggests
previously unreadable writings on palimpsest can be deciphered. Another tool is ink diffusion
analysis, which can be used to ascertain whether a document is ancient or modern forgery.
This technique, which I love this example, was employed to help help show the Mormon documents
discovered by Mark Hoffman and sold to the LDS church during the 1980s were in fact,
modern forgeries. Yeah, a lot of these technologies are being used. You write about carbon 14. It's
New Testament scholars have always been reluctant to apply carbon 14 because it destroys the
specimens. You don't have to take like whole manuscripts and destroy it, but you do have
to take a little snips. And so when the gospel of Judas was discovered, and it became public,
people probably know about this, I don't know when it was, maybe 10, 12 years, I forget, 14 years,
I forget how long ago, but I was involved with that. And the National Geographic wanted me to be
on the team that was examining it. And they called me up and they said, they started out
by saying, what do you know about the gospel of Judas? I said, well, we don't have a gospel of
Judas in church while I was mentioning it. There's National Geographic of Women's on this
phone and asked me what I think of the gospel of Judas. And she said, well, would you think it's
significant if we found it? Yes, I'd be significant if we found it. Are you kidding me? She said,
well, we think we got it. And so they gathered a team together. They wanted, they got a
Coptologist, Steven Emel, who could verify the, could examine the manuscript per se,
and they had me to kind of situate it in the context of early Christianity. And so they had
these people. But this woman on the phone, she said, well, you know, what we really want to do is
date the manuscript. And I said, well, you know, for that, you need a Coptic paleographer. She said,
oh, okay, what's a Coptic paleographer? I said, a Coptic paleographer. He said,
Coptic, the language this thing's written in, an ancient Egyptian language. And a paleographer
is somebody who dates manuscripts based on handwriting analysis. She said, well, we're
wondering if you could help us with the carbon 14 dating. Could I help you with the carbon 14?
I'm not a scientist. I'm a biblical scholar. So they found, but they found a guy, they found a
person in Arizona who, who does this kind of thing. And so, but you have, you have to take
low pieces. And to do the carbon 14, you got to destroy the pieces. So you don't want pieces that
have writing on them. All right. But you have to take a bunch of them. So yeah. So already back,
so this was years ago, they were doing it then. But they've also, they do multi spectral analysis
now. I don't know about them doing DNA analysis on manuscripts. I'm not sure how you control
that. Because, of course, people are handling manuscripts for centuries. And presumably,
the DNA would be contaminated. The shroud of Turin, I think is, I think it's a no brainer.
Yeah, it's a medieval forgery. And so I know people are saying, Oh, no, it was all messed up.
Not my joke. Yeah, I'm with you on that. I just did an interview on that actual topic with a
historian, Andre Nicolotti. And he goes through the history and chose that there's nothing before
the sixth century of even mentioning a shroud. And then there are many shrouds. So there's already
a scandal going on with, with creating these relics. But yeah. Okay, so we're going to shift
subjects to Hebrew Bible. But before we do one interesting comment slash question,
with the recent launch of the web space observatory, some astronomers are predicting
there's a good chance we will know within the next 25 years or so if there are other intelligent
life forms in the universe. If this happens and we are still around, what impact do you think
this might have on Christianity or religion in general for that matter, Dr. Amin?
Well, it depends what one means by intelligent life forms. I'd be amazed if there aren't some
kind of life forms out there. Because I mean, you know, our, our galaxy has 100 billion stars in it.
And it's one, I mean, there are different estimates by how many hundreds of billions of
galaxies there are. And so surely, even if it's by chance, but the fact, you know,
the likelihood that there's anything like us, it's completely remote and improbable, I think.
So, you know, in some way, I mean, a parrot is intelligent. But I mean, it's not going to affect
people's religion. If they find, if they find high, high intelligence, then people will have to
account for it. And religion is very flexible. You know, religion can adapt itself and maintain
its basic criteria. And it typically does. And, you know, if you want to, if you want to see one
kind of conservative Christian's view of how that happens, then CS Lewis's space trilogy, where,
you know, you get actually, you know, people, people do have other kind of religions based
on what their own situations are and different. And so God would also reach out to these space
people and maybe it wasn't Jesus, maybe, you know, I don't know. So, yeah, it wouldn't kill religion,
I don't think. Thank you so much. All of the space people might kill us. Yeah, I was going to say,
you know, what if they came and they, and they heard us talking about trying to convince them
about this idea that we have about a God and they're like far more advanced than like,
what are you talking about? What if, you know, imagine them trying to say, no, no, no, no,
you got this all wrong. We know how the universe, like we have far more understanding of this that
we live in. That would be interesting if we could take some notes. No, that would be great,
obviously, if our minds could get around it. But I think the more likely thing is that if we find
intelligent life, we may well damage it. Because we have a huge history of colonializing people
that are inferior to us. And I think it's a real, that would be a real danger, although
how we would possibly get there is another question. I mean, as I understand what little I
understand about the speed of light, you know, Einstein, Joe, general relativity is like, you
know, we wouldn't be able to get there anyway. So it's right. We'd have to start now and wait,
I don't know how long before our generations. Exactly. Unbelievable amount of time.
You got millions of light years away. It takes millions of years to get there.
If you're going to speed a light and nothing can go faster than the speed of light,
that's the whole point. So if you ain't going 866,000 miles a second.
Yeah. Well, we'll shift in gears to Hebrew Bible, Old Testament studies and things like that.
And this might be where we really stretch your memory. I don't know. We'll see. Hopefully,
I'm not pushing too far. First question I have, why do scholars consider the book of Zechariah
a product of multiple authors? As was the case for the Pentateutes, Isaiah and Daniel, we get
those, but Zechariah. So with all of these books, we have similar criteria for how we decide.
In some books, it's easier to demonstrate than others. But the way we do it is what you need
to imagine is suppose you've got two novelists. Suppose you got Charles Dickens and Mark Twain,
and they both written something. And somebody later, like take some pages from Dickens and
some pages from Twain, and they sew them together into a book, and they don't tell you you've done
that. When you read through that book, all of a sudden things change. The writing style changes,
the topics change, the ideas change, and you think, you know, this don't sound like the same guy to me.
I mean, well, yeah, maybe he's just having to maybe maybe approach things differently, maybe
decided to try a different writing style now, maybe decided to talk about something else now.
So you have to consider all the possibilities. But this is the case with Zechariah. The first,
probably two thirds of it is from an earlier prophet, second two thirds. The first two thirds of
it sounds a lot like kind of what we can situate in in kind of what you think of classical prophecy.
The second part of it, I think it's chapters nine to 14, especially 10 to 14, are have more kind of
an apocalyptic flavor to them. And so they're sometimes thought about as being kind of
preliminarily apocalyptic. So they're not quite as apocalyptic as like Daniel chapter seven or
something, but they're kind of leaning in that direction. And so you get passages like that,
you get you get a similar phenomenon in Isaiah. Most people who are like a familiar biblical
scholarship, like, you know, at some level, might remember that the people that scholars are pretty
sure that there are three Isaias, first and second and third Isaiah, the first Isaiah is chapters one
through 39, etc. But less fewer people know that within first Isaiah, there's a section,
chapters 24 to 27, that's called the Little Apocalypse, that's like the end of Zechariah.
It doesn't fit into its eighth century context in terms of its ideas, its thoughts, its theology,
its understanding of things, its writing style. So people think this was inserted.
And so for all of these books, this is the kind of detective work that scholars do.
And they do it at a really sophisticated level. And so it's not the kind of thing where you could
just like read your English Bible, say, Yeah, I don't think that's right. I mean, you can say that
a lot of people do. But you've got it, you know, you got to know the languages, and you got to dig
in there. And you got it is complicated. It's complicated work. And it doesn't mean that it's
necessarily right. But to evaluate to really to evaluate it, you've got to be able to do that,
that level of work. Thank you so much. Next question. Why was the Rassi songs song of songs
included in the Old Testament canon? Was it because the priest thought it was written by Solomon?
Right. So it is interesting in the in our Old Testament that there are several books
that are thought to be written by Solomon. And there are books from outside the New Testament,
the Old Testament were thought to be written by Solomon. And some of them make better sense
than others. The book of Proverbs, Solomon was known as a very wise man. So well, he wrote a
bunch of Proverbs. And so that makes sense. Book of Ecclesiastes claims to be written by Solomon.
It just says, it says, you know, I mean, he doesn't say my name is Solomon, but he says that he's
the son of David, who's the king in Jerusalem, who's like the wisest and richest man ever to
live and see who might that be. And so he's claiming to be so and it's not written by Solomon.
Song of songs is an interesting case because on one level, there's really nothing about it to
make you think Solomon. I mean, it's it's about a young man who is passionate about a young woman.
They're both gorgeous. They they are just like inflaming love with each other and want to have
sex. And there there's all sorts of innuendos in there you don't get in English translation
because translators are afraid to translate it because oh my god, really, that's what I said.
And so so I don't think it got in because people thought Solomon wrote it. I think people started
revering it as a as a sacred book. And the reason they did that is because they started to allegorize
it so that in ancient Israel, the standard allegory was that this is not talking about a young
man and a young woman who have the hots for each other. This is talking about God's love for his
people Israel, that he is passionately in love with them, and he just wants to do anything for them.
And with that reading of it, then it takes on a completely different tone. It's no longer a love
poem per se. And then and so it gets accepted in. But then you have to ask, well, okay, but who wrote
the thing? You know, if you attribute it to Solomon, that adds weight to its its authority.
Christians then take it over, of course, because it's in their Old Testament too. And the Christian
allegory was typically Christ's love for the church rather than God's love for Israel. And so
that's how I still I think a lot of Christians read it that way, don't realize what it is they're
reading. Not quite rated X, but it's getting out there. It's a high R. Let me tell you.
I mean, it is kind of funny, like if it seems that it's implied that this is definitely a sexual,
very, very in love type sexual book. It's kind of a joke, though. I think it's funny is what
I'm trying to get at. It's not like to mock, but it's like, you have turned something that was
like practically an ancient playboy into sacred literature. And I mean, I guess that happens
a lot, you know, that happens throughout history. So well, I'm glad they did it. I love I love the
book. And it's great that it's in the Bible, because otherwise nobody would read it. And
you know, yeah, I suppose you could say that about a bunch of different books of the Bible,
like when you actually read them and just isolate them and read them for what they have to say.
Wow, that's in the Bible, including, you know, the Klesiastes, another book that Solomon allegedly
wrote. Oh, my God, that takes a contrary view to things than most of the Hebrew Bible.
Thank you so much. Next question we have is, is it true some Old Testament passages have been
bolderized, if you will, by translators to soften otherwise x-rated material, which is kind of what
we're talking about. For example, is it true that when Abraham made oaths beneath his thigh
and Ruth lay between the feet of Boaz, these were euphemisms to disguise the fact the subject
referenced was a more intimate part of the Melanatomy? Yes, it's certain. These certainly
were references to genitals, but the Hebrew words themselves are used euphemisms. And so
with Ruth, it literally says feet. It doesn't say genitals. And so it'd be like today, you know,
if you say, yeah, yeah, so I guess people don't say the same or we used to say so and so kick the
bucket, right? It means they died. You know, and it's not it's not that a translator putting that
into French, if they translated into French as he kicked the bucket, that's the literal French.
He's not, he's not bolderizing it. He's just translating the English. So it's a euphemism.
Or, you know, a more common one today, he passed, you know, he passed away, instead of saying he died.
So it's just, so the euphemism is in the original in these cases, not the fault of the translator.
There are places where translators do kind of soften it up a bit, especially, for example,
in the song of Solomon. And it's especially interesting, by the way, people won't know this,
but it happens in the writings of the early church fathers. Some of the church fathers describe,
we were talking about heresies earlier, and how you have these heresies, and you have these
church fathers that attack heresies. And one of the things they do is they claim that these
heretics are all a bunch of perverts, and they go into some length to describe what it is these
heretics do in the ritual services. When the addition of the, of the church fathers appeared
in the 1900s, I'm sorry, in the 1800s, in the 19th century, in the, in the anti-nicing father series,
there are sections, for example, in the book of Clement of Alexandria, that the translators
refused to put into English. And so what they did is they translated them into Latin. So the
English translation has entire chapters that are in Latin. The reason they're in Latin is because
that means only scholars can read them, and they're not going to be like hiding them under the bed
at night, kind of pull them out. They're just like, whereas if you put this in, if you put,
you let regular people read this, oh my God, you don't want them reading this stuff.
Wow. It seems that, it seems that Christians still carry on that tradition. If you're not a
Christian, you just want to be a pervert. I'm just joking, not all. There are some fundamentalists,
is my point, that did actually use that. Yeah, no, you have no, you have no morals if you don't
believe in God. Yeah, silly. Next question. Do mainstream scholars believe Ruth, Esther, and
Jonah are examples of Jewish fiction? This is a complicated question. I don't think I've ever
seen any discussion of it, except for, I mean, I've written about this a little bit, but not about
those three books. But the reason it's complicated is because ancient languages didn't have a word
comparable to our word fiction. And they didn't quite have the same concept we have. So let me
explain. I've had, I've had to deal with this in my work on ancient forgery, because I had to deal
with genre issues. And what kind of writings are these? Are these meant to be factual? Are they
meant to be stories that didn't really happen? So they did know about stories that didn't happen,
but they didn't have like this category that we have, like this work is fiction. So in our thinking
today, we have different kinds of genres of writing. And so somebody can write a novel,
or a short story, or a limerick poem, or a front page news article in the New York Times,
or an op-ed, or a sports column. All of these things are different kinds of writing,
and there are no kind of legal law, there are no laws about how to do it. But there are these
kind of expectations of, you know, if you're writing a sports page column, you know, if you're
writing about last night's football game, you know, your first paragraph will summarize basically
the whole thing, and then you do the play by play, you know, and so, and so that's, and people expect
that. And if you're doing a science fiction novel, you know, you have all this stuff that didn't
really happen, but you know, the reader doesn't think it really happened because they know it's a
science fiction novel. And so with, with genres, there's this kind of unspoken agreement between
an author and his or her readers about what this kind of writing is going to be. And if you know
what kind of writing it is, then you expect them to follow it. And so that's why you don't have
biographies of, say, Abraham Lincoln negotiating the Civil War with the Martians, because that would
violate what biographers are supposed to be doing. Biographies don't talk about spacemen, you know,
it's just like, you know, and so it has a different thing. Whereas if you're, you know, if you're
reading a science fiction novel, you will never find a science fiction novel that is 14 lines long
with certain rhyming and rhythm, like a sonnet, you know, because that's different. And so you
have these rules. And the question is, what do the ancient authors think of their rules
when they wrote genres, because they had genres, and there were no laws about it. But, but so
the question is, when somebody's writing Ruth, what do they think they're doing? Do they think
that they're presenting this great story that has great meaning in it? Do they think that they're
recording a historical event that transpired centuries earlier? What do they think? And the
only way to know is to get hints from the text. And most of the time, these texts don't give us
enough hints to let us know, in my opinion. I don't think we know whether the authors of Esther or Ruth
thought they were writing interesting stories that didn't happen, or if they thought these were
things that did happen. And the interesting thing is, you can say the same thing about many of the
Gospels. For example, just stay outside the New Testament, the infancy Gospel of Thomas, where
Jesus seems to be that he's this five year old, Wunderkent, who has these supernatural powers
who can zap his friends when they irritate him, or he can wither his teachers when they like,
show that he knows more than they. Is that, is it meant to be what we would call fiction?
They didn't have a word for fiction, but do they think it's a hap? How would you know? I mean,
you have to guess. And so I don't know about Ruth and Esther. What about Jonah before we jump off?
Same thing, same category, kind of? Yeah, it's the same category. On my blog lately, I've been
talking, I guess a few weeks ago, I was talking about short stories in the Old Testament,
and I talked about all these and talked about what they were doing and stuff and what great
stories they are. But I don't think we can get into the offer's mind and know what they were doing.
You can for other writings. I mean, you know, for other writers, you can say, yeah, actually,
they're just trying to describe something that happened, whether it did or not. That's what
seems to be what he's trying to do. And so, yeah. Thank you. All right. Next question. How does
current scholarship respond to the theory, the scroll found in the temple during the reign of
Josiah as mentioned in Second Kings and Second Chronicles was Deuteronomy, and that the books
from Joshua through Kings were compiled by one author, a view advanced by Martinoth?
Yeah. So I think it still continues to be thought that maybe not like completely our
book of Deuteronomy, but some kind of book like Deuteronomy would be what is being referred to
in Second Kings when Josiah discovers this. So Josiah is undergoing, undertaking a religious
reform because the people of Israel have started worshiping other gods. They're all sort of
worshiping practices. They're not following the law of Moses. And it's very, and he thinks that
the problems the nation's having are because they're not worshiping Yahweh correctly. And so he
decides to reform and he's going to repair the temple. He's going to get, you know, get these
other cults out of there and stop all the craziness that he considers be craziness of other religions.
And in the process of that, as they're kind of redoing the temple, renovating the temple,
they find this book and it's called the book of the law. And scholars have long thought that this
is something like the book of Deuteronomy that was probably edited later, but in our Deuteronomy.
So Martin Know was a German scholar who thought that there was a continuity
between Joshua, judges, 1st and 2nd Samuel, 1st and 2nd Kings, those books. In the Hebrew Bible,
those are just four books. It's 1st and 2nd, sort of the same. So this is called the Deuteronomistic
history, or the Deuteronomic history, which is a collection of books probably written by one
author that is showing the history of Israel from the time that Moses died and they started
conquering the promised land, going all the way through to the fall of Judah at the hand of the
Babylonian at the end of 2nd Kings. And so basically it's a history of ancient Israel and ancient
Judah starting out as a unified nation and then splitting after the death of Solomon into two
nations. And then the northern nation is being destroyed by the Assyrians in the 8th century and
the southern kingdom Judah being destroyed by the Babylonians in the 6th century. And so there is
continuity among these books and it's still seen that way. They're seen as continuous with some
editing probably going on. But yeah, I think that's still an accepted idea. Thank you. Thank you so
much. What's your opinion regarding the cult of Asherah, a woman deity worshiped mainly on the
rural areas who was possibly considered the wife of Yahweh? This is a position advanced by William,
Dr. William Dever, among others and is based on archaeological discoveries of her figurines
in areas where Yahweh worship occurred. Yeah, I don't have any independent evaluation of it. I think,
I mean, I've been convinced that something like that's probably right, that Asherah just appeared
to be, it's definitely a female divinity. There are passages in the Old Testament that condemn
Israelites for worshiping her. There are reasons because of archaeological discoveries for
associating her with Yahweh. And so there's, I think there's a widespread view among experts
that, in fact, she was seen in some circles as the wife of Yahweh, which is scandalous.
But, you know, we have all sorts of scandals when it comes to both men and women and to the Bible.
Thank you so much. All right. What is your position regarding the historicity of the patriarchs,
the exodus and the conquest? Archaeological excavations and studies over the past 40 years have
failed to provide support for these personages and events. Instead, the lands of Judea and Israel
appeared to have been gradually settled in waves over many centuries along the lines of first
proposed by Albert Alt. Some scholars have even argued by the time of David, the population density
of Judea was still so low, his empire was probably limited to Jerusalem and its immediate
environs, like the source would be the Bible on Earth by Finkelstein and Silberman.
That's a great book, by the way, that your people ought to read. These are two bona fide scholars,
Finkelstein and Silberman. It's a great, great book, and I will never disagree with anything those two say.
Thank you. I disagree with something, but it's like it's a really, really good book.
So, I don't know if we're going to talk about my course at some point.
We need to mention it, actually. I'm going to be lecturing on this on this very topic. I'm doing
a course, you can say more about it, but I'm going to be doing a course that I've just announced
that will be a study. It's going to be how scholars read the Bible, but I'm starting off with a sixth
lecture. The first part is going to be a sixth lecture course on Genesis, and then I'm going to
do the rest of the Pentateuch and sixth lectures, and then I'll do it. I'm going to do something on
what happens next, and the conquest, the settlement, and all that kind of thing.
The Bible is quite clear that there is an Exodus under Moses, and in the Book of Numbers, we're
told that there are over 600,000 men who had been in slavery, and their wives and children leave,
600,000 soldier-aged men who escaped from Egypt, and so what are we talking about?
I mean, two and a half million people or something left Egypt, and they wandered around in the
wilderness for 40 years, and then they conquered the promised land in the Book of Joshua.
This is the heart of the biblical story in some ways for the Hebrew Bible, the narrative,
and I'll be evaluating the historical reliability of that. These biblical stories have been called
into question seriously since the 19th century because of archaeological discoveries and because
of internal tensions within the stories themselves, and the plausibility of there being two and a
half million people who escaped slavery that aren't mentioned in any source. People will say,
well, the Egyptians ain't going to mention that. It's like, you know, boy, they took it on the
jaw on that one, so yeah, yeah, but they're a very good reason for wondering if that's the case,
and so I'll be lecturing about those things and talking about evidence and what we know,
and then once people know the evidence, then they can make up their mind. Was there really a
battle of Jericho where the walls came tumbling down? Was there a city of Jericho that had walls
at the time? Well, you know, there are ways to find out these things, and so we'll be talking about
all that in my course. I hope everybody joins the course. It also begs the question of, was there
Joshua? Was there really, you know, some of these characters? Well, you started out asking me about
the patriarchs. I mean, there's no evidence, of course, that Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob,
Joseph. There's no, like, external evidence for that. Our only evidence is in the Bible itself,
and so you have to, there are all sorts of issues that one has to address, such as if Abraham,
if you follow the biblical chronology, he must have been living in the 18th century BCE. Scholars
are pretty sure that our earliest source for Abraham would be what's called the J source of
the Pentateuch, and it would be about 800 years later. And so I try to put this in comparative
terms. Like, if you find somebody today who's our first source for somebody living in the year 1300,
you know, like, we don't have it, there aren't any other sort of, like, but somebody writes about
somebody living in 1300, this is the first time you hear of it. You know, what do you make of that?
Say, well, they're moral cultures. Yeah, okay. So you have to, you have to weigh all that. And
he's only 99 having his first child. I mean, that's very plausible, is it not?
Well, if it's a miracle, it don't matter how old he is. That's true. That's true. That's, I think,
the whole point of all of them. I think we have time maybe for one more. What is your position
regarding the hypotheses that the Israel God Yahweh was derived from the more ancient Canaanite gods,
El, the sky God and Baal, the God of storms and battles?
I don't think Yahweh was derived from El and Baal. I think that he was a divinity among a group of
people who lived in that region, just as there are other groups that worship El and Baal. And so
I think that there are numerous gods being worshiped. These are all polyphists in the ancient world.
And the followers of Yahweh eventually took over that part of the world, eventually,
and they incorporated religious practices and beliefs of other peoples into their own.
And so you have Yahweh being called all these things.
Thank you. All right. If I may, just to put the icing on the cake. Did Canaanite tribes,
the Israelites encounter, also practice harem, the practice of exterminating all enemies,
following a battle with possible exception of young women, of course, the virgins,
according to the Old Testament, the Israelites did so. So I didn't know if, I guess, that's,
go ahead. No, it's a good question. Was this a common practice? I don't know.
The reason the Israelites do it is because they are, the reason they do it in the Bible,
and honestly, they really did it. But in the Bible, the reason they do it is because
Yahweh cannot allow his people to start worshiping other gods. And so you can't have foreign influence.
That idea, so far as we know, was not shared by other peoples in what they called Canaan at the time.
And so I don't, I don't think that, that this principle probably was followed. And I don't
think we have any evidence that it was followed by anybody else. And there's actually not much,
there's no evidence the Israelites followed it. Because, I mean, even in the Bible, it's clear
that lots of Canaanites are still alive later. And so they didn't destroy everybody.
Thank you so much, Dr. Erriman, for your time. Ladies and gentlemen, check out the series.
It's coming soon. Every one of my descriptions is going to have access for you to go take the
course with Dr. Erriman, learn something about these things, especially those who want to wield
themselves with some knowledge on understanding the biblical narrative. You know, you get harassed
by fundamentalists? Why don't you learn a thing or two? That's often my audience.
Can I say just one thing about it? If they want to just look it up on their own, just,
just look up barterman.com slash courses and they can find it. And also, for those who haven't
heard, I also have a blog where I do this kind of stuff all the time. The kind of questions Derek's
asking me, I get questions like this every day. And for 12, well, since 2012, this is my 10th year,
I've answered every question I've gotten. And so, so think about joining my blog. It's used
to raise money for charity. So I don't, I don't get anything off of it. But, but raises money.
The ultimate question is, what does he think about me after all of this harassing that I do to him?
Maybe I could do a blog post on that.
Thank you so much, Dr. Airman. And I appreciate you, sir.
You're welcome. Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen, join MythVision's Patreon not only to support us, but there are 72 videos
that I did with Dr. Dennis R. McDonald and Richard Carrier, all on the Patreon Early Access.
You guys can ask personal questions when I go to interview these scholars and you're helping
me on MythVision grow.
