People when they hear about the Good Samaritan today, obviously the first thing that comes to mind would be Christian parable of the Good Samaritan
Anyone who helps someone on the street, you know, like a random stranger people call him. Oh, this is a Good Samaritan
What is a Good Samaritan? I discovered that people
Don't know that
You know, we exist basically
Most people think that it's just a parable of a guy
Maybe named Samaritan or maybe those people existed, but they got extinct like the Canaanites
So the first high priest ever was in the holy land at least his name was El Azar
He was the son of Aaron and believes to be the son of Aaron the brother of Moses
And then came Pien Phas and then came El Azar right until a high priest named
Uzzi
He was basically rightfully the he was a Levite. So he was qualified
But there's another person his name was Eli and he uh, according to the Samaritan accounts and also other
Scholars who believe that some that he had
power money
Some Samaritan accounts also mentioned that he had black magic
And he started to also have a movement
We are
MythVision welcome back to MythVision podcast. I wanted to spice things up today and bring you a special guest
A modern-day Samaritan
In fact, we're gonna learn a little bit today from a modern-day Samaritan on the history and
What it means to be a Samaritan the different traditions and I'm sure you're well aware of those
So we have Abud Cohen joining us today. How are you my friend?
Hi, thank you for having me. Thank you. I'm great. How are you?
I'm great. I'm great little glitchy here on the internet. So bear with us. He is across the world
You are near Mount Garizima if I'm not uh mistaken
Yes, that's correct. Uh, we we are like a small community that lives
Uh, half of us live on Mount Garizima and the other half lives in Tel Aviv in a village
named Cholon
so we're about 800 and
Uh, we are not aware of other communities that are
That call themselves Samaritans
at least
Not before a hundred years today. There are people who
Uh considered themselves Samaritans that we never met
They just found out about us on the internet and they just learned about the religion and
So yeah, it's people are just discovering about it. Yes
Yeah, there's an there's a well known history here to
A rivalry in fact between Jews and Samaritans, but before we get to that, I'd like to ask what is a Samaritan
Right
so
First of all the word Samaritan
it's derived
There's two theories. One is because the people lived in Samaria
That's what some people say, but others people's it most likely one of the
reasons why it's
Named Samaritan is the word Samir Shomer which in ancient Hebrew means keepers or guardians
because in the same commandments it also says for my keepers or
Uh for my commandment keepers. So that's the explanation of it. So the Samaritans we believe that we uh are
descendants of the ancient tribes of israel
At least what we
Remained of us today. We believe we come from the tribes of
Ephraim and Ashe who were the sons of joseph
from the tribes of joseph and
Another half of us
From levy. So for example, my last name is as you can see Kohen and if you're if you're your last name is Kohen
Then you are a Levi
so
People when they hear about the good Samaritan today, obviously the first thing that comes to mind would be
the christian parable of the good Samaritan
And anyone who helps someone on the street, you know, like a random stranger people call him. Oh, this is a good Samaritan
Uh, and I and I heard it myself
On many tv shows and
In movies. Oh, I one time I heard it was like, what is a good Samaritan?
I know we are called Samaritans in english, but
What is a good Samaritan? I discovered that people
Don't know that
You know, we exist basically
Most people think that it's just a parable of a guy
Maybe named Samaritan or maybe those people existed, but they got extinct like the canaanites
There's no I don't I'm not aware of any canaanites today. Although we believe that we
Live basically among the canaanites, uh, but at some point we believe that we were not even called samaritans
We believe that we are from the ancient israelites people call it ancient israelites ancient hebrus or the hebrus
Uh, that we believe entered the length three thousand six hundred
Uh and sixty two years ago. This is our calendar year by the way
Um
and
You know, so I can go on and like basically give you a like a brief history of
or a brief summary of how this
Uh split happened between the jewish and that's what yeah, let's get into that first thing
I'd like to mention too as we're getting into this is
The bible that we read right typically christians judaeo christian worldview. We're reading has this
The split happens so first a syria is conquered and they
end up in a diaspora and eventually according to the biblical narrative and
From what I understand historical accounts in historical counts
It's like the leadership in the region in the north
Were taken and the rest of the people remained. I mean you didn't take every single person joe and his mama
The higher status people
Something like that. It's almost like making the nation weaker in some ways, but not leaving the land empty
Exactly and and so they take these people and then what ends up happening
According to the bibles is like they take the people of the bible
We're reading is like he takes the people from the land and then he inserts other people from other regions as was well known in
Assyria's conquest and in their empire would to be move people around and stuff so that they can't unite to fight against
but um that doesn't mean there weren't people who were actually from the north originally in the land and
The bible's narrative from what I understand and the historians I talked to they say
That when you get down into judaea and the babelonian situation that happens
The babelonian exile happens and finally they come back because persia saying hey
Cyrus just go build your temple and there's people wanting to help them build the temple
now
I don't know how true this would have been
I don't know if samaritans would have actually come down and i'm using the term anachronistically
Let's just say the samaritans are ephraim manasseh and some of levi
And let's just say they came down to to you know, jerusalem and they're saying hey
We'll help you build your temple
I don't know how true that would be to begin with because they don't even view
jerusalem as the place but
If that is the case the jewish people are saying to the samaritans
Or at least in the biblical account. It sounds like they're saying you're not really israelites. You're really foreign
How does that make you feel though as a samaritan? Doesn't that that's a deep issue that is between jews and samaritans? Is it not
True true. That's why um, you know, we have the probably the term good samaritan because uses was giving a an example of how to be
You know a good neighbor and love your enemy in a sense, but he is the good samaritan and
You know a jewish person and it's like the palestinians and the israelis today almost, you know
um, so he gave a good example, so
We are definitely
in a sense hurt
That we are basically
Belief to not be from the israelites. We're definitely, you know, because we believe that, you know, this is all our traditions about right?
And and you were born as a samaritan
Raised up on this idea that we have direct descendants of the israelites, so definitely
however
you see
Say the story of our our origin, you know from our own traditions and our own accounts and our own
You know the things that we derive from our ancestors and and what's the what's the word?
Um
You know the legacy from them
What we have is the story of two high priests who got into
Kind of like a fight if you ever heard about this story. Tell me tell me
All right, so the high priest the third high priest
Let's say the first high priest ever was in the holy land at least his name was el azar
He was the son of erin and believes to be the son of erin the brother of moses and then
Uh came pinhas and then came el azar, right? Sorry pinhas then abisha. Anyways up until a certain high priest
I don't remember the name the number exactly which number was it?
uh like in in uh in line, but up until a high priest named
uzi
He was basically rightfully the to be the the high priest. He was like the rightful heir like they like this name
um
And he was a levite so he was qualified, but there's another person his name was ali
and he uh according to the samaritan accounts and also other scholars who believe that some some
scholars also believe this idea this theory
um that he had power money
Some samaritan accounts also mentioned that he had black magic
And he started to also have a movement
Um and started to believe that this high priest is not basically the right
It's not qualified to be the high priest. He's just not qualified and ali was also a
Co-hand and he believed that he could uh be the high priest and eventually he he made his own movement
and and
built the temple in shilo, which is about
Um a few kilometers away like 40 50 maybe even less than 30 kilometers from mount gharizim
Which is where the samaritans believe the temple or not a temple
Tabernacle should be built
And so you see the story goes on that these two movements become eventually
The kingdom of israel in the north and the kingdom of judia in the south and it is believed that like the jewish people were
Separated from the kingdom of israel and we know that in accounts there the kingdom of israel was named and stayed
As the kingdom of israel like the name of it for a long time up until it was changed to samaria
So people heard about samaria and judia. This is where it came from when the number of the samaritans
Who were believed to live across the north?
so
There's two two statistics one says it's up to two million one says it's up to one million two hundred thousand
so it's above above one million two million samaritans living in the north and
So you know the story goes on that even the differences in the Torah occur
um
For example, the jewish people moved to use them the assyrian fund
uh, you know the assyrian writings
um, and of course the pronunciation changed over time
The samaritans we believe that we have kept the ancient hebrew
Uh, although, you know, like any language there are some changes that that can occur because of you know, like how the any languages evolve
So, uh, i'll be showing you i'm sure i can share my screen and show you soon how the hebrew looks like and maybe some other photos
um
But yeah, so so this is where this really happened between two high priests and two movements and
Ellie and uzi and eventually there's another story that goes on. Maybe you heard about rechavan and yerubam
uh
You know, I need to to study the the history of uh from yerubam and and
and uh rechavan more
Honestly, especially with the the relation to their father salomon king salomon because king david
He didn't build the temple yet in jerusalem
It is believed that in samaritan in the samaritan traditions that king david had a dream of
God communicating to him that the mountain of blessings rate was here
and this is where
abraham
Came and isa came and jacob came and joseph came
so
but salomon did
didn't
Obey god's law so in in accordance to the samaritan tradition
Right, and I think you see hints of that in terms of what happens in the bible itself the bible that we have right that
salomon ends up getting drunk and he loses his mind in the end
one thing that I would love to ask is
I'm sure with the samaritan tradition over against what we call the bible in the west and and the jewish tradition is that
there are hints in our bible
That actually tell that mount garazim was holy and sacred and of course the place
Can you tell us examples of why?
You think your your tradition actually is like in the bible?
It kind of gives hints right does it not before I tell you though
I I want to make it very clear that I I'm a very open-minded person
I'm trying not trying to prove, you know any point, right?
I I've I love everyone and I love, uh, you know, I love
Really the people of the world, so I'm not like trying to prove anything. I think we have beautiful traditions to share
The reason why I say that is because I know that for example, I
Love this mountain and like any jewish person he would love jerusalem so much
So we consider jerusalem is of course a very holy part of the holy land, right?
But
We believe that first of all we focus on the first five books of moses
This is what was given to the prophet moses on non-sinai the first five books the pinta took
and
We believe for example that the hints to the place of worship or the chosen place
Were given even in genesis even in the first book we start seeing hints of an holy place
For example, god told abraham go to the
One of the mountains that i will show you so here we start seeing like okay
There's one of the mountains that i will show you then we see the jacob had a dream of angels falling up and down
Uh when he came to lusa
Which we also believe mount gearizine is carry out lusa
He came to this this place and then he woke up from the dream and he says
In ancient hebu we say
In zekib et eluwan this must be the house of god god
And
This is the gates of heaven. So there's like two things that he gave to this place. So we already seen. Okay. There's this holy place
Um, and know i built also an altar. We believe he built it here after the the flood
and
And you write the story abraham and isek again. We believe it happened here. We have been physical altar that we believe
Is this one end the same that where it happened?
So it's it's a pretty huge claim
But we believe that ever since the israelites entry to the holy land
We never left this mountain and the reason is because we know one of the famous rituals that the israelis did
When they entered the holy land was and this is of course found in also the mesoretic text, which
Also the christian people
Read right the story of six
tribes sitting on mount gearizine and six tribes
standing sorry on mount eba
And we know that the six who were on mount gearizine
um
Were commanded to put the blessings right and six of mount eba were commanded to put the cursings
Not to curse the mountain itself
But more to set the laws for example to say blessed as he who
Like loves his neighbors all right and all the nation will say amen
And of course the cursing would be cursed as he who who kills or
Or steals or cheese or something like that and of course all the nation will say amen
And this is how the law is set before everything
Before you move on to you know, let's say like to conquer the lands, right? This is the law that is set here
And
All the nation will say amen and no one will say that I didn't hear about it. So that's the samaritan story and we believe joshua
uh built
The tabernacle of moses with the ark of the covenant in the first year when the israelites entered the holy land and specifically
uh
The biggest difference between the samaritan Torah and the jewish Torah is known to be the ten commandments. So
What is the first commandment in the Torah?
Don't have no other god before me. Exactly. And what's the second one?
um
Is it not uh the first one? I'm the lord your god and the second one is you shall have no other god before me
That's what Jewish people mostly considered. I I I know right right so
So for us we count those ten commandments
differently
The first one and the second one is like i'm the lord your god. You shall have no other god before me is just one and the same
So this means we have
Nine I can might be wondering because if we consider the first one and the second one the same well actually we have a tenth commandment
Which is to build
An altar on Mount Gerizim and this is like a pretty big verse
and after that verse in a few uh
Verses like after two pages or even like a one page. We start seeing
hence
We keep seeing hints to the where to build
uh
Where to go where where to build a tabernacle and where the center should be the hints were really like this when you come to the place
which I
Have chosen and then after a few verses like that when you shall come to the place
Which I have chosen or only to do it when in the chosen place right now
This isn't the Samaritan Torah in the same
Place as in the mesoretic text
You will see
And when you shall come to the place which I will choose right will choose will choose because
Are you seeing where it's going? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah one saying this has already been chosen
Which would kind of imply according to the narrative
um
That if you go back to
Joshua if you go back to you know, jacob if you go back to these places where
Well jacob specifically this is the house and the tabernacle, you know this idea and it is a tabernacle
It's not a temple till later
So so I see one is future and one is past tense one is saying we already have it one is saying it will be
And and just so you know about this is our first time actually talking
I love everybody too, and I'm not interested in like creating a war. It is interesting to see
What war is there to create? There's just all I'm saying is there's there's been a division
Of words between jews and samaritans
And there's even been conflict in history when you read about this they have been
Blood wars against each other and so I I I know that's not your intention. That's not mine either
I also must say without I don't have to but I figure I might as well. I don't believe
um in the bible
I love learning about these things. I love to learn
The differences of thoughts and so while I'm not a believer
I like that. I really like that. I don't mean to cut you but no, please um, but uh
People really missed the point about the bible. They tried to prove that the stories happened while missing white
The stories were written in the first place. They tried to prove the flood happened and they tried to prove that the miracles happened
Okay, so we have proof but like let's look a little bit about maybe the wisdom that was given there and then prove things
You know, so yeah, I I definitely
I definitely approached the bible critically and that's why it's interesting hearing the differences. I love. Yeah, I love also like
You know, of course the scientific things that that can apply to that. I love these these parts too. So yeah, okay
So you're pointing out future and go to the place. I will show you and the jewish version
Um, but in the samaritan pentatou you have go to the place
I have chosen
Which is the place jacob had his dream and I suspect is
Going to be on mount garazine
Right, it's it's gonna be a well exactly. So we believe that
like I said, abraham and isek and jacob and even for example, um
There's hints that even moses spoke about it
he
When you know the story of moses. He was basically forbidden to enter the holy land because of a certain
Thing he did because he hid the rock instead of talking to the rock
So god punished him because he didn't obey his his laws. So he were
He was forbidden to enter the land and when he tried to like, you know, ask god for forgiveness
He
He was obviously very desperate to enter the land, you know, he spent 40 years trying to lead those israelites
And then he was not for you know, uh allowed to enter the land. So he was like, please god, you know, like in the sense
I'm not I'm just quoting here. I'm just paraphrasing but he was like, please god
Let me go and see this beautiful land and this beautiful mountain
Right. He says literally like one beautiful mountain. He says
Not even a beautiful. He said the good mountain
And you can so that's one for example theory of why people waste americans and other scholars believe it
Maybe this is the original text in some ways and I'll tell you a little bit more about the differences in the pentaduc in this american pentaduc soon
Some interpretations even samaritans might might not like
But that doesn't disprove any of their claims of them being, you know
Like on mount gear zine for for that alone
but just I want to go back to um
Where we were talking about like the mount gear zine. So one more proof you might call is the song of the sea
Where it says
that you like that you shall live in
your mountain of
um
I have to translate this first from hebrew, but it would be something like the place that you live in right so the place that you live in
So you see these are some mentions that we believe that were
given to mount gear zine and mount gear zine is mentioned we believe 12 13 times in the tour 13 names different names
um
Other than the gates of heaven and the house of god and uh that mountain of blessings
maybe the chosen place is one of them and it was um
Oh, one of the mountains was one of them, but I was searching for a specific one
Um lusa is also one of them the word gear zine
There's two interpretations of where that comes from one is that the people
that
Live there were called like that gear zine. I'm not sure where I read this from or heard this from that. That's one theory
I heard another one most accepted by samaritans here also and and some historians is gear zine
means the commandments the mountain of commandments
so
So this is interesting um, you have two mountains
jerusalem is obviously in the south
And what do you mean we have two mountains though? Well, I'm that's the thing i'm trying to get at because
How would there be a mountain?
Right, you have a mountain up north, but then jerusalem's claiming to be the holy place
How do they interpret that then I mean do they say that it's a mountain down there?
The mount of olives is that what they're trying to what is it that they're equating with?
You mean in jerusalem, right? So it's it is considered. I mean, I'm not 100 accurate on the history of that
I do know that there is a little bit of differences between the actual
Heart mountain of tion and betel where the you know, for example the house of god
I heard one theory that they differentiated that that's two places even though it's around jerusalem
Uh, that's one theory. I know but I have to study more about what where exactly or why how is it?
How did it get switched? I like I wish I could even explain more because super interesting
But i'm i'm still a student also about this. No, I get it. I get it
But I do want to point out the one more thing. I think is important
so one difference between the samaritan pentatouk and the jewish pentatouk is that you have
A verse that appears in the same place in both torres
But in a different way. So the verse says in the samaritan pentatouk, it says
When you shall come, sorry you shall build an altar on mount garyzine
While the jewish text, the maseratic text says you shall build an altar on mount
ebal
So that's one
difference basically
But remember that in both torres mountain there's a verse that says you shall put the blessings on mount garyzine
and the garyzines on mount ebal. So in both
The blessings were put on mount garyzine and the garyzines were on mount ebal
So it's interesting to see the differences and i'm super curious to know like
When did this change happen or how?
Yeah, me too
I'd wonder how what's the oldest
Samaritan pentatouk material we have
I mean because everybody passes on their tradition
But it's like what is the oldest that we have and then of course the there's
That still wouldn't prove anything one way or the other it
I can share my screen here and show you
If that's okay, yeah, yeah
so we have a
very ancient scroll
We believe is
Well, we believe it's our it's over 3000 years in fact
3600 years pretty huge claim as some people say that even books didn't even exist or scroll scrolls didn't even exist at that time
Right, but we still believe that and and this is uh
I'm gonna share my screen here. Okay
Let me know if it's good
Okay, okay, got it
Right, so the person here on the right. He's one of his uh, his name was jacob. He's a high priest by the way
We have a high priest even until today
For example, the high priest today is my grandfather and he is believed to be number 137th high priest
Some numbers say 133rd. So there's differences in that. I think that's that's not very important
What's important is that the high priest is chosen based on age based on family. He has to be the
oldest of the kohen family that lives on Mount garizim. So that's one high priest and his
He's holding uh, basically our oldest Torah scroll
Um that we have also considered one of the oldest Torah scrolls in the world
As a scroll and not a book, right? Right now
Of course the first question that many people might have in their mind. Was this really attested to be 3,600 years?
Was this carbon dated? Well, the answer is yes. It was carbon dated, but
Um, it was proven to be around 800
almost about 800 years old
Okay
And of course, there's like different reasons why we believe that I mean
We never said that this is the same papers like papers did not survive sometimes
So we just replaced them the idea is that the texts remains the same if the paper goes wrong
We would have replaced it really so and this is written on a deer skin by the way
So that's something that we keep
Uh in this in the synagogue in uh in the safe that um, we only bring out three times a year out of the safe
and
One more thing I want to say about the scroll
Would be that some people, you know, like obviously they saw this is a good opportunity to make quick money, you know, because
Unfortunately, we don't have many scroll scrolls left. There's many Samaritans that sold their books and their manuscripts around the world
Uh about in that's because of poverty right in the first world war
Uh because of european and american researchers specifically
Uh who were ready to help out by you know, buying some kind of books like for example
This book over here might be like I see it's a christian publishing house blog or something
Maybe they also sell it of course it was sold in auctions. Luckily
This was never stolen
uh, because I'm saying luckily because unfortunately there were two that were stolen from our
synagogue one is
Years old and was and one is up to 400 years old you can search a an article that I
Have a really good friend who wrote it. I forgot the name of the article
But it's something like the stolen samaritan scrolls. Maybe sort of google that store stolen samaritan scrolls
Uh, there's interesting theories of how that happened
Wow, but yeah, that's uh one of our oldest books and of course, uh, this is ancient hebrew again
If you want to look a little bit closer, maybe we can also search for
Samaritan hebrew also known as paleo hebrew or
Just ancient hebrew in so many ways some people don't like to call it ancient hebrew
But many scholars agree that it's called ancient hebrew because it's just like
It's another evolved version of ancient hebrew which is considered some some connected to aramaic
All right. So just a small thing about the language
I think is worth mentioning
I want to
Kind of expand this one if I can okay. That's not how we expand it. But do you see it? Is it uh
Like the letters are good like for example here
Let's say this example better this
letter right here that looks like
Well, this is shown which means teeth basically so you can see why
Right teeth and you can see for example the eye
This is in which means eye
in ancient hebrew or ute
Which in ancient hebrew means hands and other examples. So it was pretty holographic
Today the assyrian hebrew is a little bit
For example, the eye is not doesn't look like the eye exactly
So you can search for also this tablet to differentiate between modern hebrew
So one example I want to give is this is the eye in today
Which also means eye in hebrew compared to the eye which was like like a triangle
And all the languages really drew even more accurate eyes
But the language is developed and we learned this language at the age of about five years
Even earlier than that
for example, we
start learning
How to read the Torah in ancient hebrew by the age of five six years and then by the age of nine we
Start doing the bar mitzvah. So
Wow, so there's a lot of tradition here and I really really
Um, I appreciate you coming on and sharing this, you know and talking to me and
I appreciate you too. I mean, I don't have these opportunities that much. Um, I started to be more passionate about sharing
uh with the world when I found out
That people didn't don't really have no ideas
So I was like, wow, this is really cool. People know about the good samaritans, but
I couldn't kind of like enlighten them on this beautiful traditions and story and represent my culture
Yeah, yeah, this is where you come from. Let me ask you a couple more questions before I let you go because I want to do more
Uh discussions around
You know the temple in 70 that was destroyed the jewish temple and the way that they could upkeep their laws
It seems like since the tabernacle could be on this mountain and there's still an altar
That there's still sacrificial animals that that you can sacrifice. Do the samaritans still practice that today?
So
We do not have a tabernacle anymore
We believe it was destroyed or in a sense
We don't believe it was destroyed if we want to go to the stories of our ancestors that were passed down
It was hidden. It was hidden by god
basically who
kind of hired a prophet
To take all the tools and then hide them somewhere in like in a cave in the mountain or something like that
the reason why he hid it is because
Well, the nation started to not follow
the laws basically correctly. So that's basically the belief inherited and
So we don't have any
Sacrifices other than one actually, which is the Passover
ceremony so the Passover ceremony or the Passover sacrifice is a
Basically 3,600 year old ritual that we believe we never stopped doing for over those generations
Because it's very very very basic
Let's say a structure for the israelite religion because
You know, if we thought we should talk about the history of the israelis you always have to mention the exodus
and the story basically of
Why god is god also one of the reasons of other than he created the world
Is also that he for the israelites is that he was done who also released them from slavery
So how to remember this throughout the years for generations so that you will follow
God and his commandments specifically the Torah commandments basically
is by passing down this story by
Doing the sacrifice
Which will make your next generation or like for example when you're a child and you see this and like you have to
Wonder like why are we doing this?
And that's what literally the Torah tells us, you know
Like it says that and it shall be that when your child asks you
Why do we do this and you shall tell him the story of the exodus and we believe this would have been happening across those
hundreds of years and
Today we only have this Passover ceremony, which we're where we basically bring
Like every family it does what the Torah tells us to do in the Passover ceremony
Which is to bring one year old lamb
And one year male year old lamb who which is very you know, which is healthy and not sick
They're specific laws and we have to prepare it in a specific way not to eat it raw not to eat it boiled has to be
basically
I don't know if the word barbecued more like just really
Like just made with fire, right so
About 50 sheep 60 sheep, for example, we're sacrificed
Last year and this is based on every family bringing one or two sheep
The sheep has to be prepared in a specific way like not to break any bone when you make the sheep
That's literally what the Torah tells us so we have to put a sheep the sheep on a long stick and then it's put in a
Big oven so basically each oven can hold about four sheep
So after we clean all the intestines of the sheep and just prepare the meat
We have to clean it and dissolve it. We put it in those big ovens. Of course, there are some photos
Not recommended for vegans, maybe though, so
But we basically
So it's it's considered a happy day in a sense for the Samaritans because of like remembering the independence
Although like when I was a child and even still today, you know, we also have animal feelings for animals
So it's also mixed feelings for me at least
Um
So basically we cook the sheep for three hours from nine until 12 a.m
At midnight we come back to this place the parcel of our place and we bring the sheep out of the ovens and
We sing in a really strong beautiful chant
And then we eat the unleavened bread with bitter herbs like the commandant told us
And then, you know, for seven days we eat unleavened things
Then the seventh day we do the pilgrimage and I do want to share like one more photo of the pilgrimage because I
I love the pilgrimage photos. They're on the top of the mountain usually on sunrise
And a lot of photographers come to see it. So let me share this. Thank you
Because I want to also mention a few more points
so these are like for example the
For example, do you see the priest holding the Torah? This is yes
I'm not I'm sure it's not the first time you see it. There are some similarities between this and the Jewish
traditions
and this is what I want to want to what I want to point out that there's many similarities between the uh
Samaritan priest and the Jewish
Sorry, Samaritan traditions and Jewish traditions. So the high priest or sorry the priests or the cantors more
We call them cantors
They raise the Torah left and right for people to be to get the blessings from it
We visit six or five checkpoints on the top of the mountain. One of them is the place where we believe the Tabernacle was built
The place where we believe Abraham and Isaac a story happened
And we have Yom Kippur also which is comes in october
After the fasting of Yom Kippur for 24 hours, we start building the Sukkot. So um, this is how a Samaritan Sukkah would look like
These are like fruits
Put on the ceiling
Don't mind the symbol we can use any symbol we we can't you know, there's no specific symbols people just like to use it as art
and
There's like and oh, this is my grandfather's like three years ago
We spend like two days making those
And then on the third day everyone has to be ready. It's like a competition of he builds them
Most beautiful one, you know
Wow, look at this one. For example, just a bell the people can be creative some some families
They kind of took it
To another level and they made the whatsapp logo
Let me ask you this
If I may just to press on a couple things
I'd love to get your personal thought because you're very
aware of the world around you and
The Samaritan world in which you were born and your tradition
um as someone living in 2022
Do you feel a tug?
between
What is true?
What is history? What is real facts and what?
Is wisdom so do you feel like maybe I should ask a more direct question?
Do you sure is there some of your tradition? You don't literally believe
But you you read it as tradition and you say this is just my past my story
I don't believe it to be true, but I this is my story and I love
My family's story
right, so I think
what comes
uh before everything
would be really my love for
Hugely big parts of this tradition
Um the sense of community that it gives you
I think we humans evolved to have a sense of community a sense of belonging it kind of like ensured our survival, you know
and being in the community
Um
It definitely it feels like a big family, right?
So that's definitely something they give even for being in a nation. I'm not saying it doesn't give you that
but
But you know, we we share this
traditions and we kind of like feel that we we're going through life together and there's like this really beautiful support that we have for each other
So I should I love that
but when it comes to
for example certain beliefs
so
First of all, there are definitely things that I believe
happened, but
there are some other things that I believe for example in our
some of our traditions that I believe were
Uh, not the point that they happened or not
but it's just to basically, uh, prove a point
For someone because there's a difference between
You and nodding your head that you understood something and between you really
Understanding something. You know what I mean? Yeah, no, I get it
Right and you know those stories
Like a lesson like a lesson something. Yes, like yes, and basically just consciously understanding something
for example
Those stories were kind of like a mechanism
in many ways some of them were just a mechanism for us to
basically
Derived some kind of wisdom that makes us live life better, right?
um
Of course, I cannot be more specific. There are some people some maybe some Samaritans also from my community watching this and they might
Think that I'm doing some kind of blasphemy because of believing that we have more religious people than others
More some religious Samaritans than others, but we don't have anyone that doesn't keep the laws or that doesn't keep the traditions
Or doesn't keep Shabbat or doesn't eat kosher. Everyone
Uh follows these rules and we love those rules and we believe that they teach us discipline and
Other things so I hope uh, you know, I'm following up on your question because yeah, uh, really as I'm being as honest as possible because of
Uh, like it's an important question that you really asked and specifically the more modern generation
Since we're talking about modern Samaritans
um
the more modern generation
might likely be more prone to believing less
In some of the traditions because you know, the world is more orienting towards logic and proving and reasoning
so
but today we see that you know, they're living life very beautifully
in sync with
The religion because I believe that the religion is not
Being any hindrance. It's actually being the opposite because
I think having a healthy, you know, having a kind of like a calm state of mind
and
That might come through spirituality or religion, you know, I think that helps us live longer
You know that helps us live healthier just having a calm state of mind and if religion helps
with that
Without you hurting anyone then
You know, let it be if it's a device for you to become let it be so I think I'm not I don't want to go too far into philosophy here
But I don't know you understand what I mean because that's how I see it in many ways also
I get it. Let me ask you this as far and you don't have to name names
But in I speak to Jewish
Friends of mine as well and in the Jewish community, there's some friends of mine who don't believe
They don't like for example, right? They'll say look, I don't believe that the god is real
I don't believe in the stories all of these things, but they practice kosher
They they obey the laws. They keep Sabbath things like that
And I didn't want you to name any names
But are there samaritans in your community?
who
Obey the laws obey the tradition
But they they may not actually believe in it in any literal real way
um
So I think
There is yeah, there is one that I know at least and he
you know like some some
Some samaritans might hear me might hear me like say that and there might be shocked, but yeah, I mean
Um
There's a way that I basically know about it, but at the same time it's not that this person hates the culture or the traditions
It's that he's a super logical person who is just like doesn't want to take any hearsay. You know what I mean?
Uh, so that's something that happens
I
I personally like I do believe in god
But some people might find it difficult for them to believe that I don't believe that god
exactly
um
You know exist in a in a sense of being
Some being who is watching over us. It's more like through us sharing with us his creation in a sense
That's uh, what I believe to me if there was one that makes better sense personally, so
So it's um, it's definitely something I want to you know, I like philosophies so like we can go on
You can we can write a book about these things, you know, right?
Um, but that's like basically a hundred like in the last hundred years
There's about seven or eight samaritans that maybe left the community
But maybe I don't know like about exact numbers but maybe half of them
Were probably because of not like losing interest maybe in the traditions or just not want just wanted to be independent
uh, and of course like we're not
Yeah, you know the community that doesn't follow them and you know, just stalk them or anything
And everyone is do does your community get um, do christians try to proselytize your community often?
um, not often but I
I think I was asked to look twice twice. Um, like
I was invited to christianity maybe twice while doing my tours
um, but no like that's
They were very friendly people. They didn't exactly like I didn't feel any
Harm or anything like that
Uh, and oh we don't have missionaries though. Like we don't invite people or bro in some cases we
um, do
basically
Women do convert to become samaritans. So because we have uh, we had less men than women and also
Usually the man is the one who goes to check to to to find a woman. So we have people from
About like 10 to 15 women from ukraine
That converted to become samaritans and they learned, um, you know how to be samaritans. Wow
It turned out to be uh, like sorry for the pun, but the good samaritans
So so this is a really interesting. Um, can anybody join?
so
Hmm
It's a good question. So I think
Not really
everywhere, but in a way not knowing yes. Okay. Let's say yes and no for that answer. Uh, yes
that we do not
Exactly condone anyone who might you know want to follow what the samaritans follow and believe what the samaritans believe and
And uh, you know follow the laws and make their lives better if if they obey those some of those laws
So we're we're not, you know against that
And we're even not against people joining our community itself. There are some families that that have joined us
Uh, very few actually like there's like only a couple that lives among the community only a couple of families
Uh, and it's not easy at all because
It's a community and it's closed and it's when I say closed
It's just never happened until now that people came and just lived with us
Start learning ancient Hebrew and you know, there's about a thousand melodies that
Samaritan have learned so
Um, it takes a lot of time to learn ancient Hebrew and how to properly read it. So when someone reads it incorrectly, it's
In a way, it's it's kind of like doesn't make him a samaritan in many of the community's eyes. Oh, wow
so
so, uh
We are definitely like for example, there are people can join if they can prove that they are
Serious they're gonna come every year
To certain festivals and every few shabbats
So that it's not like there's a certain law. It's more like the community. It just has to see that you're serious and that you
You know, you're you're not causing any harm to the community by basically bringing other people who you know, because we're probably scared
Uh people bringing change maybe, you know, right?
I can I could see I could see how that would be a threat
also
When I was mentioning can people join it makes me uh wonder about conversion because
Can people?
Integrate and become samaritans and the reason I ask that is because it seems like
There's more of a genealogical
Connection that you need to be a descendant of right. There was also going to mention that definitely being um
Like being an israelite
It doesn't exactly
Mean, you know, it's not exactly
Uh, one of the necessities, you know, like the ukrainians that we married were not even like some of them were not even jewish
They were even uh, some of them were even allowed to uh, you know, make the christmas tree at their home
Some jewish people might see it as a splash for me, but you know, her husband just wanted her to feel at home
There's nothing serious about it, you know, just a christmas tree
So people are very open-minded. So you have to consider also that we are considered not samaritans from the mother side not maternal
It's more from the father side
Uh, and it's both but more from the father side like abraham isaac jacob
So that's uh, that's worth mentioning I guess, you know
Yeah, the the last question I have and I really ask the one more thing about the samaritans around the world. I am having
even uh, random messages from random people
On social media telling me that they did a dna test and they found that some of the traces have samaritan origins
You know, so I don't know how to feel about that
It's interesting
Yeah, right
So no, no, no, no problem. No problem. You know, I I got into this
I realized that there was an issue between how jews viewed the samaritans and they would
polemics, you know that they wrote uh, not only are in the bible the hebrew bible, but are also
In the talmud and these ideas that they view the samaritans as gentiles
But samaritans don't view jews as gentiles. Correct me if i'm wrong
Samaritans actually see jews as also brothers and sisters
In the family of israel as well, correct
You are very correct. Uh, we do believe that the jewish people were from the tribe of juda
This is where the word jewish comes from and the tribe of juda were
It was like really one of the most dominant is if not the most dominant tribes like in numbers in from the 12 tribes
Uh, and we do not have any hatred really. There's nothing in our traditions or anything of our books and poems that say anything bad, you know
In against the jewish nation
Like the story of when the assyrians, by the way, brought 27 the number was 27 000
Inhabitants of the north
So this number we believe is just really small very very small number compared to the big population that was
Living in the north so that doesn't mean that this is where really our origins come from and for those who want to go
And dig deeper you're more you're you're you're invited to uh search google for dna
studies on samaritans some samaritans cohex for example, we're proven to have
Uh a dna that is related to
Yeah, the jewish nation
It's pretty exciting findings
You're doing virtual tours if i'm not mistaken. Right, right
I had my I had like I I had one yesterday this yesterday morning 6 a.m
Well and over today at 7 so it's very
It's it's odd. You know, you're a samaritan in the 20 22nd century doing a
A virtual tour to someone in america. That's crazy, but it's something I like doing
What is the tour like tell us what it what it is and how much it costs?
yeah, so the tour
Is um, I think it's 45 dollars per ticket, but if there's a group
There's like some kind of certain discount and there's actually a discount going on
Right now while we're recording. It's a 50 discount. So it might be 25 dollars and it's basically a 45 minute
Tour around the mountain which kind of gives a really nice summary on the samaritan community history and of course you're
interacting with me all the times you can ask any questions
It's really interesting because it's kind of different than the tours that I do in in real life
Of course, I would probably prefer a more in real in person, but this one allows you to add media and
Videos so it's pretty nice. Wow abud. Thank you. I'm gonna explore
Samaritan
It's a meet to real samaritans. That's what they changed. They like the title to be like that and I was like, uh, yeah, sure
I'll put the link in the description so everybody who wants to take
A purpose only in the u.s. We're now
Okay, so if you're in the u.s. You could take a tour on the mountain mount garazim
from your
Living room from your bedroom from wherever you're at you can go with abud on the tour
It is a time to be alive. Look, I really do appreciate you coming on
I don't know much about the samaritan pentatute. We did not get too deep into too much
There's a lot about the language
I know that you can talk about a lot of differences in the tradition and in practices that you do
I would love to have further shows possibly having discussions with you and others in the future
But I really do appreciate you dropping everything you're doing to come and hang out with me
I think it's also worth it for people to check out the documentary. They want to see more visuals
Uh search for samaritan documentary on youtube. It's a 50 minute
Uh video and I also have a podcast that I do from time to time is the open peace podcast that I opened with two
three friends
From israel and we have also a palestinian friend and we're trying to you know
Like also talk about different topics like this and also bring the israelis and the palestinians together to talk about
um
important topics so
I can tell that you just from talking to you that you're a good person and you really want to
Like yeah, you want to be uh fair and you want everybody to get along and things like that
So I respect that and I thank you for doing that
Absolutely. Thank you so much for having me. I uh, I super appreciate the opportunity and uh, you know, I'm looking forward for more, uh
And you know episodes like this, you know, like I said, I'm a student and I also learned from you today. So thank you
Thank you. Let's do it again
Go into the description check out the links. I had a blast
If you have any questions drop them down in the comment section
I'll visit what I'll do it again and we can talk about those questions
We can take another deep dive if you're interested
But most of all if you're all forgetting and sometimes I hear you do never forget
we
are
myth fission
Ladies and gentlemen join myth fission's patreon not only to support us
But there are 72 videos that I did with dr. Dennis R. McDonald and Richard Carrier all on the patreon early access
You guys can ask personal questions
You
You
