Go in the description, subscribe to the New Testament Review podcast with Ian Mills and
Laura Robinson. Ian Mills with New Testament Podcast Review, I have a question about the
Diatesseron, Tation's Diatesseron. What, educate me on this. It seems someone's trying to create a
single solidified proper gospel. Well, I think everyone is trying to create a single proper
solidified gospel. And I think you see this, if you go read the prologue to Luke's gospel,
he says many have attempted, and this word attempted is a criticism. This is a word that Luke
himself uses as a criticism of other people. And we see this is how it's read by the early
church. So the early church has to say that Luke is talking about heretics, writing other gospels.
But there's good reason to think Luke is in fact talking about Mark for sure,
and probably either Mark and Keele or Mark and Matthew. I think we've attempted to write
this story, but I, the author of Luke's gospel, am going to put this in the
good and proper order. I'm going to write this stuff down accurately and in the correct order.
And then we see Marcian doing the same thing, right? Marcian comes along and he rewrites Luke,
and this becomes his one gospel. We've got the gospel of the Hebrews, which is another gospel
that Irenaeus says, the people who used this text used only this text. And it seems to be
harmonizing the synoptics. It seems to be some sort of combination of the synoptics, but harmonizing
isn't a qualitatively different exercise than what Luke is doing, right? Luke is taking Mark and Keele
or Mark and Matthew and creating a new gospel with them, right? He is himself harmonizing.
So I prefer in my rating on this synthesizing. I think synthesizing is a better description
of what Luke is up to and what Taysian is up to as well. So I think Taysian, we don't unfortunately
have any comments from Taysian about his own work. But what we do find is that Taysian wrote
another gospel and his gospel seems to be a combination of Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John.
He's using the four canonical gospels as his sources. He doesn't preserve everything from them.
He cuts out the genealogies. He seems to cut out other smaller things. And then in weaving these
things together, he puts them in a brand new chronology. He doesn't adopt Matthew's chronology
or Mark's or Luke's. He creates a new chronology in which the temple is right at the middle of Jesus'
ministry. So John puts it at the beginning. The synoptics put it at the end. Taysian has a new
setting for this. And in doing this, he seems to have introduced new readings, new interesting tidbits.
He is writing another gospel. And the interesting thing about Taysian
is Taysian's deotessoron, and this is a word that probably he didn't have for it. He probably
just called it the gospel. But deotessoron means through the four. And we probably have Eusebius
applying this term to Taysian's gospel as a way of describing what this is. This is the
through the four gospel. This is the by means of the four gospel. And Taysian's gospel was
used as the primary, and in lots of cases it seemed, the sole liturgical gospel in Roman
Syria and to Saned Persia for as many as 400 years. We have a theod of Seir writing in the
fifth century saying he went and collected copies of Taysian's deotessoron that were
being used as the sole gospel in 200 churches. He goes around to these churches that are using,
he says, they didn't know any better, and they were using this as their sole gospel. This is
the only text they had. Ephraim, one of these major proto-orthodox church figures in Syria,
writes a commentary on the gospel, and it's just for him, the gospel. And this is Taysian's gospel.
The doctrine of Adai, which is this narrative about how Christianity first came to Syria,
the doctrine of Adai said that the apostles of Adai, and Adai is how is the name Thaddeus,
one of Jesus's disciples. So the followers of Jesus's disciples, they devoted their time
to reading the Jewish scriptures and the new, which is Taysian's deotessoron. So it represents
early Syriac Christianity as reading, using the deotessoron as their gospel. One more example
is we have Urbula, another proto-orthodox church father, who writes out this rule that people
have to have in their churches the separated gospels. And that becomes the way that Syriac
Christians refer to the four canonical gospels that we are familiar with. They call them the
separated gospels. And that reflects at least a possibility that the United Gospel, that is,
that term only makes sense relative to something that Taysian's deotessoron,
something that combines all of them together. And so we see that text disappears over time.
Unfortunately today, we don't have a single copy of Taysian's deotessoron that survives.
There's something called the Duro-Europus Fragment, and this is the first article I ever
published, that some people have argued belongs to Taysian's deotessoron. It's a
fragment of 15 lines, almost entirely composed of the description of Joseph of Arimathea,
and it harmonizes the canonical gospels. And people immediately, as soon as they found this,
so this must be Taysian's deotessoron, it's in Duro-Europa, which is in Syria. It's early.
This is probably Taysian's gospel we found. The problem I've argued in a piece published
in The Gospel of Taysian, I think, is the book is called, published by TNT Clark.
I argued that the Duro-Europa fragment, there's only one place where we can compare that to
Ephraim's commentary in the deotessoron. Ephraim wrote this extended commentary
on Taysian's gospel, and there's only one piece of evidence from one place where we can compare
that with Ephraim's comments, the order of some stories. And in the only place where we can test
the Duro-Europa fragment against our best, earliest, and most reliable source for Taysian's
gospel, they have different orders. And so the Duro-Europa fragment is probably just another
example of someone doing what the Synoptic Gospels are up to. It's probably somebody else writing
another gospel, combining the sources available to them. Taysian and this other fragment are doing
the same thing. Heck, it could be the Gospel of the Hebrews, although that doesn't seem likely,
because there's Johanan elements in there. But we do know there were other people who were doing
this, doing the same thing, who were taking written sources and writing new Gospels.
And a lot of them didn't become wildfires, so to speak. So this is fascinating. I love this.
Where in this Syriac, is it Syriac or Syriac? Oh, the same thing, I think. In that church that's
using the deotessoron, if I'm saying this wrong, please. No, it's all good.
Did they have Pauline letters?
They did. They had a corpus of 14 Pauline letters that for them was part of the New Testament.
So they had the 13 we're familiar with, and they had third Corinthians. And Ephraim,
the same person who wrote the commentary in the deotessoron,
means Jim Protorotharic's Church Father, tells us that only the heretics reject third Corinthians,
because third Corinthians criticizes their heresy. So he's talking about the Bardeisonites,
and Bardeison, the movement associated with Bardeison, who is one of our early named,
possibly the earliest named historical figure from Syriac Christianity. I've got to think about
that for a second. But probably the very oldest person who we have anything resembling like writings
and teachings from, we have a work that's associated with his school that survives.
But Ephraim is polemicizing against that view, which early Christians who discuss him seem to take
Bardeison in his school as more or less normal good Christians, but later gets rejected as heretical,
because they were very interested in astrology of all things. That view, Ephraim says third
Corinthians denounces. And some people even argued that third Corinthians may have been a
composition written against Bardeisonite Christianity. That doesn't seem to be the case,
it does seem to be written against some sort of deuseticism, and that's a complicated conversation.
But we have copies of third Corinthians that survive, and between Ephraim and Arthur Hot,
this other figure, early Syriac Christian figure, we know that third Corinthians was viewed as a
authentically Pauline epistle that was used by mainstream Christians, reasoned by all kinds of
Christians, except apparently not by the heretics in Syriac Christianity.
So you actually mentioned earlier that you don't really prefer the term harmonizing,
but synchronizing, correct? Yeah, synthesizing. Sorry. And so I think that's important, because
when I'm thinking, just follow my thought here, and I love to hear your opinion on this or even
position on this. When I think of that, synthesizing this, I think of somebody who not only is trying
to create the best version of what they think the truth is, but is cutting out what might be
contradictions. And so I have a struggle where I look at Matthew, and I see Matthew 10, Matthew 15,
Matthew 1, verse 21, which Dr. Goodacre answers, like, yeah, it does sound very Jewish only, you
know, I came only for the Law Sheep of the House of Israel sounds exclusively ethnic focused,
so to speak. Luke is not okay with that. Luke says, nice try, buddy, I got a better version,
all inclusive, you know, come in. What do you think the diatester on position was on this? You
think they cut out those exclusive Jewish only ideas? It's really hard to tell. It's, we do have
Theodore of Sir does say that there seems to have been some sort of effort, he says,
by Tation, to make Jesus less Jewish. But part of the problem is Theodore's caricature of Tation
is more informed by the controversies Theodore is engaged with 200 years later than what Tation
was actually involved with much earlier. And some of the things he says, like he says that
Tation never says, he says that Tation cuts out any reference to Jesus being the son of David or
being a descendant of David. And that's not true. We can just go, we can read from his commentary.
There's even other testimony to that not being the case with Tation. Probably Theodore of Sir
found one instance where he there was a citation that he liked that it was dropped out. And this
is a very normal thing to do. You sort of make sweeping caricatures of texts you don't like.
So for the most part, we don't really know what Tation did with respect to any specific passage.
I mean, we could look up what evidence there is in Ephraim's commentary or the other scattered
testimony that we have that we used to try to reconstruct Tation's gospel. One of the things
we do know very interestingly is that Tation added in that Mary and not only Joseph was a descendant
of David. So this is, of course, maybe a problem if you are considering the genealogies and what
Matthew and Luke and both of them go down to Joseph. But Jesus isn't Joseph's kid, right?
And so we have people early on already sort of struggling with this. It makes perfect sense,
as a first century gospel, that you are going to be interested in the legal genealogy of Jesus.
That's what matters in antiquity for lots of people. But if you are very invested in this,
Joseph doesn't matter because of the virgin birth position, then maybe someone like Tation,
writing a little bit later, who's very interested in the nature of the incarnation and things like
that, maybe he thinks, so what's the point of all this stuff leading to Joseph? Joseph doesn't
matter. So he does two things. He cuts out the genealogies, both of them, and adds in that Mary
was also a descendant of David. And so we've got the Davidic line running into Jesus.
And I think both of those maneuvers make sense as part of the same strategy of
seeing all this stuff about Joseph being irrelevant, not to mention contradictory. You're
absolutely right. We've done a whole podcast, one of our first episode on Raymond Brown's
Birth of the Messiah book. We explained how these genealogies between Matthew and Luke are
irreconcilably contradictory, but cuts out these genealogies and then makes Mary also a descendant
of David, as she is not explicitly named in any rotation sources. That's mind-blowing for me. I
bet there's many other examples like that that are in the diatestra. Yeah, it's difficult because
so little bit survives. Our best source, Ephraim's commentary, is infuriatingly
occasional. I mean, he doesn't give us ever long running excerpts. He picks just things he's interested
in and moves on. And often there's short quotations or even allusions, and he likes, it's very
paraphrastic. He will sometimes give us a lemma, like a citation, but it's usually short, and then
goes on to paraphrase the rest of the contents of the text. And he sometimes seems to skip over
entire parapherapies. Of course, it's hard to know because we don't have a base text to compare it to.
So maybe some of the parapherapies were just omitted. I'm not sure how we would know.
Are there a minute or change? Yes, right.
