Go to www.weれendocaster.co.uk
Welcome to MythVision Podcast.
Your host, Derek Lambert, and our co-host is, again, in the Batcave editing his book.
He's ready to publish sometime soon, and when he does, you guys at Gall's are going to want
to get ahold of this book.
It's full of lots of goodies and information.
A lot of things that you don't find just by skimming through the book, reading it at
face value.
A lot of nuggets that Luther has been pulling out.
So give Dr. Luther some love when that comes out.
Make sure you get the book.
We have a special guest for a long time, me and the co-host, Dr. Luther.
We've been influenced by some of his ideas.
We have Daniel T. Unterbrink on the show.
How are you, Daniel?
I'm fine.
Thanks a lot for having me.
I'm glad to have you here, because, you know, we wrestle between ideas of mythicism and
historicism and all this stuff.
Our show is full of people.
We don't always agree with everybody, and sometimes we don't agree.
But we love entertaining ideas, and that's what MythVision is all about.
So you're an independent scholar who self-published five books on Christian origins in order to
attract attention from the scholar community.
After seven years of relative obscurity, his ideas were taken seriously by Margaret
Starberg.
She kindly introduced him to Professor Barry Wilson, who has been working with him over
the past year.
His educational background and work experience in Medicare auditing gives him a unique advantage
over most scholars.
He doesn't believe anything without solid proof.
That is why he rejects the modern scholarship approach of interpreting history through secondary
sources such as the Gospels and the Book of Acts.
These secondary sources must be interpreted using primary sources such as Josephus, Tacitus,
Suetonius, Pliny, and the authentic letters of Paul.
His method raises many questions that cannot be answered by the traditional interpretation
championed by scholars.
He has two degrees from Ohio State University, a BS in Business Administration, and a BS
in Education.
Daniel T. Unterbrink, thank you for joining me, brother.
It's really good to be here, and I don't know if you just want me to take off, or?
Well, I guess we could start with who the heck is this guy named Jesus?
Well, I guess it depends on, you know, what books you've been reading, how you've been
brought up.
You know, if you're brought up in a Christian household, you believe the Gospels.
If you, some mythists don't believe any of it, you know, myself, I believe that there
was a person in history and people associated with him, but it might not be our picture
that's given to us in the Gospels.
And you know, that was why when I first started in on this project of Judas the Galilean,
I was basically, I was just looking at the birth narratives of Jesus and Luke and Matthew
and seeing that there was a discrepancy between the two.
And by doing that, I came across, the Matthew version is set around 4 BC, the birth narrative.
The Luke version is 680, you know, so it's like one of those isn't quite right, you know,
or maybe both.
So I was getting into Josephus and looking at those time periods and I noticed a character
named Judas the Galilean.
In 4 BC, he had a golden eagle temple cleansing.
So here's a guy that is cleansing the temple when Herod the Great is king of Israel.
And then in 6 AD, this, if it's not the same guy, somebody that had exactly the same beliefs,
he's leading a tax revolt against Rome.
So you get the most important person in that era and he's got so many similarities to Jesus
that it just blows the mind.
So you know, and it's, it's similarities with John the Baptist and James the brother.
Judas had sons that were crucified.
You know, so you just go through history, you know, and you just start comparing the
book of Acts to Josephus and you're going, wow, you know, things are, you know, you could,
you can see that there's some truth in Acts, but everything's been turned around.
You know, so it was interesting going through and discovering all these things about Judas
the Galilean because to me, he was the most important person in the first century Judea
and he's been almost totally lost to history.
Well, when I find that, it blows your mind.
You're absolutely right.
And you know, because I wrestle with this, I am not the guy, I tell this to everybody,
no matter how you feel about this, if you're a mythicist or a historicist, it doesn't matter
to me because if I find conclusive evidence that leads me in a direction, I'm just going
to go.
I'm sorry if your feelings are a certain way, it doesn't matter, I'm going.
And you know, there are great questions to be asked and I think the great questions also
bring the best answers and the best ideas.
We want to start with whose thumbprints are near this thing.
One of those questions I've heard asked is, and this is a big dispute within both camps
that we're talking about here, is this man who's now deified, I mean, he's on a whole
another level.
He had to be someone important.
He had to be someone, he couldn't just be a nobody, even though some go, well, he could
have been a nobody.
What are the odds though that you're going to wrap this mythology around somebody who's
not significant?
And I would think this is something that you're talking about here.
Well, that's an important point, Derek, because if you look through Josephus, there is one,
two passages that mention Jesus.
One is the passage that most people talk to and talk about.
And that most scholars think that that is not an original, because you can look at that
and you go, well, wait a second, Josephus is calling this guy the Messiah, but at the
same time, he's never mentioned him before, he never mentions him again.
So it's almost like no historian would do that.
At the same time, while he mentions Jesus' death, he mentions the life of Judas the
Galilean in 4BC as the leader of a movement that cleanses the temple, tears down the Golden
Eagle, which is a sign of fealty to Rome.
So all of a sudden, he's not only attacking the king of Israel, Herod, but he's attacking
Rome.
Okay, so this took some guts.
Okay, 10 years later, there's a Judas in the pages of Josephus that leads a tax revolt
against Rome.
And remember when Jesus is put to death, in the book of Luke, they charged him with teaching
people not to pay taxes to Rome, you know, and they say, oh, I was a false charge, everything.
There's some truth to that.
Judas the Galilean was the leader of the tax revolt, you know, and Jesus was in the
Gospels was painted with that same brush.
I think it's funny too, does it Luke start out by saying, my account is the most accurate
account?
So if we go with the conservative account here, Luke's telling me the most accurate truth.
Let's go with Luke.
In that point.
Yeah.
So you've got this character that Josephus talks about, you know, in the most glowing
of terms in some points, but at the same time, his movement, Josephus is against because
Josephus is representing the wealthy.
And Judas the Galilean was representing the poor people, the people that had been taken
advantage of.
And if you read the book of James, you read through that and you say, well, geez, you
know, James was really hard on the employers and everything, but, you know, he was lifting
up the poor people.
Jesus was the same way.
And here is this Judas the Galilean who Josephus talks about his entire movement.
And he was the founder of what Josephus called the fourth philosophy.
Now the other philosophies were the Pharisees, the Sadducees and the Essians and most people
have heard of those.
The fourth philosophy were the Zealots, the Sakari, who were the fanatics that carried
knives with them to circumcise people.
You know, they, if you were going to enter, if you were a Gentile entering the temple
area, if you ran into one of these guys, you might have an operation on your hand.
They were fanatics.
They were crazy.
And Josephus, you know, looked at them and he said, you know, they're lunatics.
They would sell their property.
And if you read the book of Acts, the early Christians did the same thing.
They sold their property and they had everything in common, pure Communism, okay?
So you have Josephus talking throughout antiquities and war about this group of people.
And he talks about Judas the Galilean's sons who were crucified and they were put in jail
at the same time.
And their names were Simon and James, the sons of Judas the Galilean.
Now in the book of Acts, chapter 10, two of the apostles were put in prison about the
same time, Simon, Peter and James.
So it's like, you've got, and I'm saying these things just go on and on and on.
When you put them next to each other, you've got, there's something going on.
So you had the death of the crucifixion of Judas' sons, then you've heard of Masada.
The Eleazar was one of the leaders of the people of Masada.
And he was the grandson of Judas the Galilean.
You know, so you've got the grandson, you've got the sons.
And so, and every time that Josephus talked about these other people, he would reference
back to Judas the Galilean.
And the funny thing is, in Josephus' writings, there's no account of Judas the Galilean's
death.
This is interesting.
And the reason, and the reason why there isn't, it was probably there to start with.
And now we've got the passage about Jesus that was an overwrite of the death of Judas
the Galilean.
And there's so many questions.
And I'm going to go ahead and say this right now.
We won't have time.
So we're going to have to do another show in the series.
We can do as many shows as you want.
So many questions, because I wanted to just say one thing and ask your opinion.
Many scholars recognize that Eusebius and church fathers definitely were dabbling with
text.
Do you think that they had whitewashed and Hellenized a version of Judas the Galilean
in this place by making him into Jesus the Christ?
I think it was done much earlier.
I think it was done in the composition of the Gospels.
Because of Paul, correct?
I think between 70 and 100 and some AD, that that work had already been done.
And then later people are working off of that stuff, and they're trying to explain things
and things that didn't make sense to them.
They're putting their own version together, you know, the great fire of Rome.
You know, nobody talks about it, but in Tacitus, he talks about these, in 64 AD, these Christians,
and they were Jewish Christians that were, he said that they were causing trouble back,
you know, in the day.
And now they are also causing trouble, not only in Rome, but in Judea.
Well, that wasn't Paul's group.
That was under the leadership of Judas the Galilean, or if you want to call them Jesus,
and James, okay?
So they were fanatical.
Their whole idea was to get away from Rome.
Rome was an occupier, and you know, you can look at modern groups kind of in the same way.
We sometimes call them terrorists today.
Now to the Romans, they would have been terrorists.
You know, if they're committing a murder, let's say somebody, a zealot, comes up behind
a Roman centurion or whatever, and puts a knife in his back.
That to the, to the, to the, to Chari or to the zealots, that would have been a positive
thing to do, because they're fighting for their home, their country that's being occupied.
Right.
To the Romans, it's a matter of terrorism.
So you got to look at, you know, how things look from both directions on that.
It's almost as if the Paul movement, and I don't want to get into Paul yet.
I still want to talk about Jesus, but it's almost as if they flipped this guy and made
Paul almost seem like he was on the conservative side.
But you actually talk about that in the book, and guys, gals, make sure you get this book.
Judas of Nazareth, and you have another one that's called Judas the Galilean, correct?
Both titles?
I wrote Judas the Galilean in 2004, and I've, in 2006, I published another book called New
Testament Lies, and in that, I included the Slavonic Josephus, which is also, and I've
got an appendix in that book that has all 13 of the passages that you want to get from
the Slavonic Josephus.
Okay.
It, well, after I wrote my first book, I came across that material, and I go, oh my God,
I can't believe I didn't include this in my first book because I wasn't even aware of
it.
But when I became aware, I go, oh, this is starting to fit together with what I wrote
before, but now it's a totally different source.
It wasn't written by, it was discovered, it's a Russian document that was essentially a
translation of Josephus' war, and it's like a reader's digest version.
So it's a shorter version, but within that, there are 13 verses or passages that relate
to the Jesus movement, which, and most scholars say, oh, it's from the Middle Ages, so it's
not, you know, but there are, there's nobody, there's no movement that I know of that would
have included that type of material in the Middle Ages.
This would have been very early materials put in by, you know, a follower of Jesus or
Judas who, you know, still held on to the law, you know, it was not a Pauline Christian.
Very Torah orthodox, right.
You know, I love this, I wanted to just show this to our audience while we're here because
I saw the title, and I said, Judas of Nazareth, and I love the catchiness of it because you're
really saying, we know Jesus of Nazareth, but you're kind of trying to say something
there, and then you say, how the greatest teacher of the first century Israel was replaced
by a literary creation.
I love that title, and I almost want to read, guys, you've got to get this, I'm excited
because everything you put in here makes, like, it's interesting stuff.
Touches on the, to me, the pivotal points, we need to ask these questions.
So I figured I'd ask, let's delve into some evidences like you've already done, if you
can think of some more parallels that kind of tell you, I mean, I thought Jesus was
a pacifist.
Like, why is this guy supposedly this rebel revolt leader?
I mean, I have had the question myself, you know, why is he flipping money-changing tables
and stuff, and what's the point of that, and never really got it growing up?
Well, yeah, you can be both.
You can preach a kingdom of heaven, okay, there are passages in the New Testament where Jesus
feeds the 4,000, he feeds the 5,000, now it's not hocus pocus stuff, it's, there's a bunch
of people going out to see a great preacher, and some of them bring food, like my mom would
always brought food, she would have thought, well, geez, you know, we got to eat.
I myself would have just run after it, you know, without any preparation.
So that whole thing is when Jesus, when they start sharing the loaves and the fishes, what
is that?
It's not hocus pocus, you know, like all the stuff's created out there, it's saying we're
going to share with one another.
So there were people in the crowd that had brought food, they share with their neighbor.
Everybody got to eat, because everybody shared with one another.
That was the kingdom of God, bringing people together.
So you know, even though they're preaching a nationalism against Rome, they still can,
you know, help each other.
In the book of Acts, it talks about they had everything in common, they shared everything.
So it was like, this was their way of life, this was their kingdom of heaven, you know,
on earth.
So, you know, this Jesus character, or Judas the Galilean, that was his message to people,
but at the same time, what kind of also got people excited was, you know, we've got an
occupying power, how do we get rid of them?
And the idea is, if we follow God close enough, and if we do what's right, God will perform
the miracle and get rid of them.
In that sense, he was wrong, because it didn't work out.
When he goes to the Mount of Olives at the end, you know, and the Romans capture him,
if you go into the Old Testament in Zechariah, there was a, when they went up to the Mount
of Olives, the, all they had to do was start the fight and God finished it.
So in the book of Luke, they asked him, how many swords should we take?
He goes, they said, it's two enough, he goes, yeah, two's enough.
All they had to do is start the war, and God was going to finish it.
And God didn't finish it.
These guys, these guys were true believers, so don't, don't get the idea that they were
just, you know, political people, you know, like just trying to overthrow.
They were going to overthrow the Romans with the help of God.
They were going to be instruments of God.
I heard that these girls even kind of emphasize that too, right?
In the war rules, squirrels and stuff, so yeah, so, so Jesus tells them, go and buy
a, sell your cloak and buy a sword and stuff like that.
And that sounds like something, this kind of character that you're describing Judas
the Galilean would do.
Right.
And, and that, I mean, these are elements I'm, I'm currently listening to a book called
zealot.
And I mean, it's, it's not like, as land, yeah, Reza, Reza, I think something.
Yeah.
And it's, it's full of good tidbits of information.
It's not a scholarly, you know, approach, but it takes some of the characters and acts
like the Egyptian and others who led revolts and failed miserably.
Why is it even saying that you really have to ask those questions like scholars ask good
questions.
Dr. Price I have on the show, love them to death.
He asks these great questions like, if you ever stopped and thought, why is acts even
mentioning that they're comparing this Jesus character and acts to the Egyptian who failed
on his mission or the other guy who went out and said he was going to split the, the
river, the, what is the, I can't even think that he, that John the Baptist was baptizing
in.
Thudas.
Thudas.
Thudas.
Yeah.
Why is he even compared to Jesus?
It makes no sense unless you factor in some of the historical context that you're talking
about and that's the question.
Was he really called Jesus or did they slap Joshua onto a Judas?
And gave the Old Testament sensibility over onto this Judas character.
Maybe we could talk about more of that.
Let's see side by side if you want or.
Okay.
Now, the idea of why is he not called Judas.
There's a person in the New Testament that is the evil one and that's Judas Iscariot.
Iscariot is a garbling, garbling of Secarius, which are the dagger men, the, the, the people
that James was the head of, the circumcision group.
Okay.
These, these were the, uh, Secarius.
So, uh, Judas Iscariot turns out to be the person that betrays Jesus.
Now, who betrays Paul?
If you read the book of Galatians, it's James and the circumcision group.
They betray Paul and they all turn their, all the Jews turn their backs on him.
Uh, Judas, the Galilean is totally written out of the story replaced by this Jesus of
Nazareth character and then all the evil that Paul sees coming at him, he makes it into
Judas Iscariot.
You know, the person that betrays the true messenger, just as, just as James and Peter
betrayed Paul, who Paul believed he was the true messenger of God, you know, not, not
James, not the brother of Jesus, you know, or not Peter, who is one of the main disciples.
But Paul said, you know, even though Paul had never met him, he'd never met Jesus.
He was, he was against the movement to start with.
He was Herodian, you know, so, you know, he had everything against the movement, but yet
somehow in his mind, you know, he's now the center of the movement and you can read it.
You can read his, uh, uh, letters and you start thinking, this guy thought he was something
else.
So Daniel, before we get to Paul, full fledged, because I think that's where we're going
to go.
Um, there's more information about him.
That's the thing.
Oh yeah.
And well, you cover a lot too in this book.
I mean, they really need to see some of the stuff that you're not talking about yet.
And you know, you, we don't have enough time to go through the whole book.
I mean, just buy the book and read it.
You'll find out guys and gals, um, but Judas is scary.
Does this, and I know this is a rabbit.
This is an offshoot of some of the stuff you're talking about here, but the gospel of Barnabas
has Judas being crucified in the stead of Jesus.
Could there be a connection?
I know that a lot of people say Judas is a fictional character.
I think you've mentioned that as well, uh, before that they've kind of been made him
into this character in the gospels.
Could this be something tied into why that gospel has him being crucified instead of Jesus?
I think as time went on, you had, you had authors going all different here, I think.
You know, now there are, there are a couple of passages that might help disprove Judas.
Paul in Corinthians says that Jesus, when he returned, he returned, you know, after
he was crucified, he returned and talked to the 12, okay.
In the gospels, he, he returns to the 11 because Judas Iscariot has committed suicide, okay.
The gospel of Peter also has him, uh, Jesus returning to talk to the 12.
So there were, there were traditions that knew nothing about Judas Iscariot.
Paul knew nothing about him and, uh, the, the author of the, the gospel of Peter knew
nothing about him.
So you know, when was he invented?
I think he was invented, uh, you know, shortly after the war when every, every, the Jewish
movement was wiped out.
So Paul had the whole field to himself and it's a money making field.
His, his goal was to bring money.
Yeah.
So, uh, with Judas, if you look at the earliest writing, uh, gospel and Mark, uh, he doesn't
commit suicide.
So I date that as between 70 and 72 because the suicide of the Iscariot was in 73 on Masada.
So after the suicide of Masada, then all of a sudden that's been incorporated into the
life of Judas Iscariot.
And it's funny cause it's like there's a field in one of the accounts where the, the
bowels, you know, all this stuff.
So you got to kind of think if this is a metaphor for that, that suicidal pack that took place
and, and, and Masada, anyone who, I'll put a picture on the screen for you right now,
you can see this is a place where they all cuddled together.
They didn't want their women and children to be enslaved by Rome or to be handled by
an uncircumcised.
They were so radical that they killed the kids and the women first and then killed themselves.
And isn't this where Josephus somehow applies his story and says, look, uh, but I drew,
I drew a straw and there was, there was another, another time he wasn't at Masada, but there
was another time when it was the same type of deal where he was with another zealot
and they drew a straws and he tried to talk the other guy out of doing it.
So because he didn't, he didn't, he, he wanted to keep his life, you know, he was, he was
not a, a zealot by any stretch of the imagination.
So Paul, you talk about Paul, Paul's about some money and the Dr. Price did a video where
he was trying to pin down who this Paul guy is.
A lot of times that, you know, I've heard him say Paul Simon Magus and one of the reasons
is Simon's trying to buy the Holy Spirit and he kind of, in the acts, they kind of made
it, they'd done some very confusing things in the book of acts, but maybe you could talk
about take that wherever you go and I'm here for the ride.
Well in, in the book of acts, uh, Paul starts out as being an enemy of the church and he
probably was cause he was Herodian, not, you know, we say Paul of Tarsus, wasn't from Tarsus.
He was from Jerusalem.
He was, he was, uh, you ever wonder why, uh, Paul's sister and nephew were in Jerusalem
when he's there in the sixties?
Because they're Herodians, Josephus says that Saul was from the royal family.
So he had a connection with these, uh, with this group, the ruling, the ruling class.
Now in the twenties or third, probably he probably converted in the, the twenties to
the, uh, what we would call the Jesus movement, uh, he becomes a fanatic for that, but, uh,
his family, how would his family have looked at that?
It'd be like a Kennedy becoming a Trump supporter.
You know, it was like, what are you doing?
This is crazy.
So, so it's the same type of, of deal, um, even when you look at the, uh, the gospels
when Jesus' families were, were thinking that, oh, you know, Jesus is out of his mind.
We had, we had to go get him.
That would have been Paul's family.
Paul's family would have said that he's out of his mind because we had to go get him because
he's, now he's becoming one of these crazy zealot types, you know?
So Paul stays in the movement for quite a while and he was probably a good foot soldier
and everything, but at some point I think he probably was so ambitious that he wanted
more and about the same time, his cousin, Agrippa, who was the, uh, a friend, great friend
of Caligula and Claudius, you know, the two run because he was, he was raised there.
He was, uh, uh, a player.
He becomes king of Israel in 37.
And this is about the same time you see Paul shifting away from the Jesus movement and
creating his own, what I call the Christ movement, where he's trying to convince, uh, Gentiles
to become part of his movement.
Okay.
And he's also having them send money to Jerusalem, you know, so, and he goes, he essentially
says, well, you know, if we can't find anybody to take it, I'll take it there.
So he was going to be collecting money from, you know, a hundred, the more people he converted,
the more money that was going to come in to go to Jerusalem, you know, whether or not
any of that money ever got to Jerusalem, I doubt it.
Okay.
But then, you know, the whole idea was that, you know, here's a guy that might have started
out with pure motives somewhere along the line.
He became jealous of cousin Agrippa.
And then I think he started working for cousin Agrippa because Agrippa also wanted to convert
the Gentile nations over to Judaism.
But how do they do it?
They don't make them want to go through circumcision.
No.
No, you don't want to have the Gentiles doing that.
You just say, oh, you know, we'll, you know, we'll accept you the way you are.
And that was Paul's message to his Gentile followers, you know, essentially is, you know,
we have a superior form of Judaism.
You don't need to be circumcised anymore.
You don't need to follow the law.
You don't need to have food, eat certain foods or anything.
You know, those are for the people that aren't mature in Christ.
So he's trying to get the Gentiles, and he's even calling the Gentiles now, you know, the
people of God, and the Jews are no longer the people of God.
So he's totally flipped the script on everything.
And eventually, you know, he's thrown out of the movement, you know, at Antioch.
And that is at the same time, you can date that by, there's an episode in Josephus where
you have Ananias, again, it's a name that's in the book of Acts, goes to talk to the king.
I can't think of his name around the top of my head, but he goes to talk to this king.
And he was telling this guy, he was preaching Paul's message that, you know, you don't need
to be circumcised.
You know, it's King Isaiah's.
This came to me.
Okay.
And it's in the 19th chapter, 19th book of Josephus and of antiquities.
At the same time, you then have a representative being sent from Galilee to combat what Ananias
is teaching to King Isaiah's.
So King Isaiah's eventually follows the representative from Galilee and becomes circumcised.
This same exact argument takes place in the book of Galatians in the second chapter, where
the circumcision group sent by James from Galilee come and refute Paul's teachings.
So and that was dated at 44 AD, 44, 45.
Now, if you do the math, that meant that, you know, Paul puts out 17 years where he
talks about, you know, meeting with some of the disciples and everything and going to
a council and, you know, developing his disciples or the apostles, give him the authority, so
to speak, to go to the Gentiles.
So you have those 17 years, and then you might have another three, five years where he's
actually doing that.
So you have 20 years, probably, that he's in the movement.
Well, if he's going out of the movement in 45, that means he didn't start till 25.
Well, according to the Gospels, Jesus doesn't even start the ministry till 28 or 29.
So you got to start looking at all these numbers and putting them together and you go, this
doesn't work.
You know, this had to be an earlier movement.
And this is where Judas the Galilean comes in, because he was a little earlier than
the Jesus of the Gospels.
What, where do we place his death at?
Judas the Galilean?
Wasn't it the 16th or something?
It's not recorded.
Oh, OK.
OK.
Now, in the book of Acts, and I think it's chapter five, verse 36, Judas the Galilean
is mentioned.
There's a character called Gamalion, it's dated around 35 AD, and he goes, Judas the
Galilean was a one-hit wonder.
And then he says, you know, he was put to death, and then also, then Thudas was put
to death.
And he mentions Thudas and then Judas the Galilean.
Well, Thudas was 44, 46 AD.
So you have a character from 35 talking about Thudas, who was from 46.
So that's impossible.
And then he says, Judas the Galilean died after 46.
In actuality, if you go to Josephus, it's the sons of Judas the Galilean that were
put to death after Thudas, and that was like 47 AD.
So you know, the whole thing is, this is a butcher job from the author of Acts.
It looks like chronology is totally jacked up in a lot of cases.
I get it.
And I know, see, everybody's trying to figure out, I call it Pin the Tell and the donkey.
Who is this Jesus?
And so what, what, like Bart Ehrman, okay, Dr. Ehrman, he brings up, his Jesus is the
Jesus Ben Ananias, you know, the woe-sing type apocalyptic Jesus.
Now, I'm not sure if he chronologically backdates that Jesus from the 60s or whatnot and says,
Jesus is the actual guy.
But you're actually trying to go back closer to where the story's saying, hey, this happened
in the 30s, but this guy was probably running around.
We know that the narrative of the birth connects somewhat to him.
His life has connections in many ways.
And we can look at the sources you said in Josephus.
And also the other version of Josephus has some elements.
Slavonic Josephus.
It's interesting, uh, Jews, the Galilean, the talks in, uh, he came on the scene with
the tax revolt in 6 AD and it says he came, he had a co-teacher who was called Satic.
Satic means a righteous one.
Who was the co-teacher with Jesus at the beginning?
John the Baptist.
Oh yeah.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
What did he teach?
A baptism of righteousness.
You know, so it's the same character.
And then when you go into the Slavonic Josephus, and this is what blew me away when I first
saw it, it introduces John the Baptist in 6 AD, 6 AD, right before the introduction of
Judas the Galilean.
So you've got those two at 6 AD.
Okay.
And it's like what group in the medieval times would have done that would have put John
the Baptist in 6 AD?
Nobody.
Yeah.
But yet somebody that actually knew the history at the time very well may have.
They also put the birth of Jesus or the Messiah at around 25 BC, which again, if you go from
25 to 6 AD is when the tax revolt, that's 30 years.
Jesus was supposed to be 30 years old when he came on the scene.
And these are from the Slavonic Josephus.
I got a question.
What do you do with the Tacitus statement, Crestus?
Do you think Crestus was possibly Judas the Galilean?
Yeah, I think it's, you know, we got to remember these guys were writing 110 AD or so.
And what they were seeing were not the real Christians.
What I call the real Christians were the followers of Judas the Galilean.
Oh, oh, oh, you're talking about the real guys, real guys.
The real guys.
Yeah.
They're all dead.
They've got wiped out in the war.
Right.
Roman were wiped out.
And they've kind of been replaced by this other movement that, you know, people believe
this or that.
And it wasn't, it wasn't centered on the law of what Judas the Galilean's movement would
have been.
Right.
So it's a totally different thing.
So some of their statements, Tacitus, are somewhat confusing.
That's why I was going to ask, because everybody, when I talked to people who are trying to
pin him down, they say, well, Pontius Pilate, the pilot stone verifies Pilate existed.
And that means this Crestus, who's crucified with a following.
And he had to be crucified during Pontius Pilate's time.
Well, if you go that far back, it's not Pauline Christianity that we're seeing.
So I wonder who this Crestus was.
And it just makes me wonder, is this the death narrative, so to speak, of Judas the Galilean
that we never really saw?
It very well could be.
You know, we'll never know for sure, you know, I mean, unless something comes up.
This probably was put to death around 18, 19, 80.
And the reason I say that is Pilate is in Josephus.
He's mentioned twice in the time between Archelius and Josephus, or in Pilate.
There are a bunch of other rulers, procurators, governors, that were there, okay?
According to the traditional viewpoint is that Pilate came in 26 AD, and he left about
37 AD.
Now if you read that whole section in Josephus, every event that surrounds Pilate are 18
and 19 AD.
Then it mentions Pilate, and we're supposed to believe that's 26 AD.
And then the next mention, we go back to 19 AD.
And we have another Pilate passage, 26 AD, then we go back to 19.
So the passage about Jesus in Josephus, that would have been 19.
It fits in between all the other 18, 19 AD mentions by Josephus.
So the question is, did Pilate actually come earlier than 26?
I think he came around 18.
And there's coin evidence that I have in my last book that I wrote, and you can get it
online for like 99 cents, that has a section on the coin data.
Because the only way to know who was publishing these coins is to have an idea of how long
they were in power, because it doesn't have their names on it, it has Tiberius' name.
So if it was Gratis, you know, Gratis is supposed to be there till 26, yet I'm saying that maybe
Pilate was there at 18 all the way through to 37.
That's a very possible, very possible.
You know, that's the case, the death of Jesus slice Judas the Galilean could have easily
been in 18, 19 AD, you know, when Pilate comes to town and starts, you know, defiling things.
Judas, or Judas the Galilean already had one temple cleansing, he might have been gone
for a second.
And this is another interesting point, in the Gospels, Jesus has two temple cleansings.
One at the beginning of his career, which would have been the Golden Eagle with Judas
the Galilean, and one at the end, you know.
So it's like, that's never been explained by anybody, why, you know, they say, oh,
let's just don't worry about it.
But yet there were two temple cleansings in the Gospels.
Judas the Galilean was involved with the first one, and I think there's a good chance
he could have been involved with the second one, if he came when Pilate was there in 18,
19 AD.
The date is all there.
So you know, read the book, you know, it's hard to explain, but I mean, if you really
study and look at the passages in Josephus, you'll see that there's something going on.
And these are the same times that the passage about Jesus has been altered, all they had
to do is alter a date, you know, like, Gratis was here instead of three years, he was there
11 years.
You know, it would have just taken one stroke of the pen and they could have totally changed
when Pilate was there, but yet the passage reads like he was there from 18 to 37.
And I think the coin data might support it also.
So it's an interesting thing because when we look at the Gospels, that's mainly theology.
I'm not going to say that there isn't some bone there, but it's mainly it's like a theological book.
It's not it's not purposely history.
And, you know, we're past the point of the fundamentalist approach.
You know, we're looking at this thing going, what's going on?
And you said something in other podcasts, because I've kind of watched you for a while here.
And you talk about Paul.
And you say that, you know, scholars recognize Paul comes early, the authentic Pauline literature.
Of course, you have pseudo, you know, Paul, but the original seven.
Paul comes prior to the Gospels and the Gospels then become a literary creation after the Pauline literature.
And a lot of times you say that when we're reading about Jesus, we're actually reading about Paul.
Paul's actually putting his own story or followers of Paul.
I think if I'm not mistaken, or that can be true, but we also interpret the Gospels through the eyes of Paul.
So if something doesn't jive with what we know of Paul's teachings, we assume that Jesus taught the same thing.
You know, so that we're brought up to do that.
You know, and many scholars do the same thing.
You know, so they try to make things fit when they really don't fit.
They were two separate movements.
Say you had Paul's Gentile movement, then you had the movement of Judas the Galilean that was totally different.
I don't know how you can't see that in Galatians chapter two.
It's so obvious.
It's like one way, you know, how did Paul last as long as he did preaching something he called it a new gospel, totally new.
In Galatians, he says, you know, my my gospel is new.
It's a revelation.
How did he get away with doing that for as long as he did?
There's a passage in first Corinthians, I think it's the ninth chapter where he says to the Jews, I act like a Jew to the Gentiles.
I act like a Gentile.
If the Jews are coming, he's talking their language.
But once they leave, you know, he's preaching what he wants to preach.
So for a while it worked until eventually, you know, Paul always in his letters, he would go, I'm not lying.
Well, who was who was telling people that he was lying?
The real the real Christians, the Jewish Christians are saying, this guy's a liar.
You know, Paul would always say, oh, I'm not lying.
So it's you got to really start looking at these things, you know, and saying there's something going on here.
You know, he's not being accepted by the actual people.
And then then he goes in Corinthians, I think a second Corinthians, and he talks about the super apostles, how evil they are.
Who are the super apostles?
James, Peter.
These are the people that we look at as being the actual followers of Jesus.
And they're made into the boogeyman by this this Paul character.
You know, so one thing about Paul, though, I think I think that people need to realize there's a soul character in the book of Josephus.
OK, after the after the stoning of James.
Josephus mentions Saul, who was a herodian of the of the royal family and his brother.
They start creating mischief and stuff and trying to get money from people.
Go to go to the stoning of Stephen, the same things happening.
You know, Saul is.
Persecuting the church after the stoning of Stephen in the gospel in in Acts, it's in 35 AD.
In Josephus, it's 62 AD.
So they've put something that this the 62 AD is after Paul was thrown out of the movement.
Now he's persecuting the people in the movement.
People would not believe that, but that's true.
And then there, you know, when when when the same Saul went to visit Caesar, so did Paul in the book of Acts.
He escaped the Jews in Jerusalem, so did Paul in Acts.
He talks to the herodians, so did Paul in Acts.
These same things that that are in the story of Acts, this character that Josephus writes about did in the 60s.
So Paul or Saul was around in 67 AD at least because he went to talk to Caesar.
And who Caesar was at that time was Nero.
Nero was not a friend to Israel.
He had just murdered his unborn child by kicking his pregnant wife.
So this was a character that, you know, Saul's meeting with this guy.
Can you imagine John the Baptist meeting with?
Or Jesus, you know, and Judas the Gallant?
They wouldn't have, they wouldn't have met with this guy.
So, you know, you've got, you've got this Saul character, you know, that was not a what you would call a good character.
And then in the book of Acts, you have the saving family members, his sister or his nephew comes to his rescue.
Well, the Saul of Josephus, his nephew is a temple treasurer.
So now you know why, now you know why the guy had information.
Follow the money.
Follow the money and follow the connections.
You know, it makes no sense in the traditional version that the nephew of Paul, who was supposed to be from Tarsus,
had any influence or could have found anything out.
But if you look at the Saul from Josephus, you had the temple treasurer.
He would have known everything.
He could have, he could have opened doors, got him out of there, you know, and they're trying to save him
from the Jewish Christians who were fanatical about killing them because he was such a nasty person to them.
So it's a total reversal of what people believe.
But yet it's in the book of Josephus, which is a primary source.
This is interesting how you how you're saying Paul is this Saul character.
I mean, they do flip the name on him.
He's Saul in the book of Acts too.
Right.
So you have this Saul-Paul connection.
Do you think that the narrative of the shipwreck is just a Josephus add-in by the Acts character?
I do.
I think Josephus, what he reports that he himself was shipwrecked.
So I think it was probably added in as, you know, well, you know, Josephus was shipwrecked and Paul could have been too.
So I think there are certain elements that are, you know, they're cobbling this story together.
And I just kind of add some some more weight to the character.
Now, now I want to get into something theological in this perspective.
If you don't mind just to ask you your thoughts on it.
I don't know if you have a thought on this.
But the when we're talking about the historicity of Paul and we talk about the historicity of Jesus,
and we try to find out what's going on here, it seems that Paul's teaching a theology of a death,
burial, resurrection concept of Jesus.
Regardless of your position or what that means, whether you say that's in the heavens,
as a mythicist might suppose, or say this is actually here on earth, there's a death,
burial, resurrection concept, this Paul character's teaching that a real resurrection is happening.
He says it's the foundation, all the faith, according to some of the texts.
He says, if that isn't true, then everything we believe in is alive.
Do you think that the original movement had a resurrection theology about their Messiah,
who may have been dead, and they're thinking he's going to rise again, or thought he did rise again?
Or do you think that's a Pauline literature, like a Pauline idea?
I think the interpretation is different.
I think Paul's interpretation was different.
His was more of a pagan interpretation, where you're, you know, you're the man god rise and everything.
I think the the Jews probably used it as a recruiting tool, because let's say you've got
a movement and your leaders killed. Kind of hard to recruit people, but if he's resurrected,
it's maybe a little easier to recruit.
So I think they probably used it as a way to keep the movement going.
You know, and then after the movement, after he dies, who takes over?
Well, most people would say Peter. Some people would say James.
I think the person that took over was John the Baptist, because John the Baptist was still alive.
He didn't die until like 36. So the the Judas character died around 18.
So they're preaching, he was resurrected, and he's going to come back and everything.
But it wasn't as God, because they didn't believe he was God.
They believed he was the Messiah, Messiah, the anointed one. That would be the king.
So the concept's totally different. You know, Paul, you know, he's preaching to people that
don't know anything about Jewish history. They're thinking more about their their pagan
upbringing in the gods and all that. So he's making this Jesus character being resurrected as a god.
And then when you finally get to the book of John,
the word becomes flesh and you know, dwelt for a while amongst it. So it's like,
now he's he was there at the beginning of creation. You know, it's like the Jews would have been
howling at such such a thought. You know, they they they were monotheistic. They didn't want
a person to be God. But I think they did believe in you could be resurrected.
And I think they believe that that was a way that they could keep their movement going,
so that eventually they could defeat Rome and, you know, have the kingdom of God, you know,
fulfilled. Right. You have said, you know, Paul is a Herodian. Okay, he saw the Herodian, not
Saul of Tarsus. He saw the Herodian. And I think if I'm not mistaken, Romans chapter 16 gives us a
hint. He's writing to his kinsmen, the Herodians, I think it mentions there. There are there are a
number of passages. And I think I have that in the book, where he's talking about different
Herodians that are part of their movement. So, you know, it's pretty, it's pretty strong evidence,
I think. It's very temple focused. A lot of this is very, there's so many ideas that come in my
mind. I know that like people like Robert Eisman. Now, if you don't follow Professor Eisman's dating,
that's fine. But he has made these connections that seem interesting between these Dead Sea
Scroll sectarian documents, where there's Sons of Light and Sons of Darkness. Well, Paul uses
the same language in many ways. So, I wonder if that Dead Sea Scroll literature is really part of
this early movement, this Judas the Galilean movement. And they're still going off of this,
this very, I guess you'd say a very Jewish, racist, Jewish, hardcore, anti-uncircumcised.
Yeah. It's interesting if you look at Josephus's accounts of the Essenes and the fourth philosophy
of Judas the Galilean. When he, in the war, he writes and he spends a lot of time on the Essenes
talking about their practices and everything. In antiquities, he kind of skips over the Essenes
and now he's talking about Judas the Galilean's movement. And it's like, wait a second, they look
like they're the same thing in a sense. So, it's like, it's very confusing. I don't know if anybody
will ever know, but there were several sects of the Judas the Galilean or the Essenes even. There
was one that married and there's one that didn't marry. Well, Jesus's movement, they all married.
So, it's like, you know, maybe that was part, maybe they were two different sects of Essenes,
one that married and one that didn't. And that the Judas the Galilean movement was the one that did.
So, it's like, you know, they both valued, they both underwent torture and did all these things.
Josephus is conflating these two groups. Maybe he didn't know. Maybe at that point, you know,
he's like, all right, maybe he was, you know, far enough away from it that he didn't know for sure.
But it sure, it looks like Judas's group would have been very influential with the Dead Sea Scrolls,
I think. Yeah, I definitely think you're hitting the nail on the head there. Something I
wanted to ask you pertaining to Paul and in the New Testament, because I'm looking at your table
contents here, you talk about the Hellenistic and Roman influences. Can you just touch on that for
brief seconds? Because it seems like this is a Hellenized mission. There's a mission going on,
for sure. I definitely think that the war and the climatic type of scenario that was going on in
the first century, even amongst the Jews themselves, you know, you had this battle going on between
different sects of Judaism and all this stuff going on. It seems like the Hellenized version
obviously won, but that this New Testament documentation we have with these Gospels and Pauline
literature, it seems like a Hellenized, like that's the intention of it. Well, a good way to look at
it is, what side are you on? Are you on the people that are the ruling class? Are you for the people?
It's starting to sound like Elizabeth Warren. But it's true, because the people that ended up
winning the war were the Romans, the Herodians who stuck with them, and Paul's group. You know,
he always told his people, you know, pay your taxes, you know, because these guys are, they're
taking care of you. So, you know, it's all pro-Roman. If you look at the book of James, it was like,
you know, these owners, they're treating you wrong. They're going to go to hell, you know.
So, you know, in the Gospels, Jesus is talking about the goats and the sheep, you know, and if you
help the poor and everything, you're gonna, that's what you do. You'll know people by their fruits.
Totally different way of looking at life and how you deal with one another. You know, one was shooting
towards, you know, satisfying the Romans and the wealthy, and the other was shooting towards,
you know, the poor and helping them out. So, that's the difference between Jesus and Paul.
Unfortunately, what we have left today is all Paul.
Right. And see, I so wish, I don't know why, I'm fascinated with the story. You know, I was,
I was a firm fundamentalist believer at one point, and I've heard your testimony, you know,
you have a background. Yes, sir. And you've done some great research. I love the honesty
and your approach, you know. And I can't, I can't tell you guys enough to get this book because
so many pertinent questions are asked in here. I thought I meant, I thought you said one time,
and I know I'm all over the place, but that's what we're doing today. Okay, we're breaking the eyes
and guys, there's, there's layers in this, and we're just touching the surface so he goes deeper.
Do you, who do you think the author of Marcus, do you still hold on to the idea that you think,
and I know you don't know for certain, but you speculate and you make a guess that you think
it might be either Paul or a follower? I think it would be Paul or a follower of Paul. Number one,
there weren't any of the Jews left, you know, and it is a document that doesn't sound like a Jewish
document, you know. So the only, the only choice really, I don't, I don't think
who was supposed to be the secretary of Peter. No, that didn't happen. Paul, Saul was long gone
from the party, you know, from the forties on. So we're talking 25 years later, you know. So
it, and you got to remember when, when he was preaching to the Gentiles, he collected money
by having them send money to Jerusalem. What happens after Jerusalem and the temple are destroyed?
You got to find a different, a different approach. How are you going to get money?
You got to now have it sent somewhere else, or to support something else. So, you know,
that might be one of the reasons why the gospel was written.
You know, something, I just, this is not pertaining to your book necessarily, but just in the vein
of the discussion, I was trying to consider, I hear a variety of different people who are like,
well, Paul's historicity needs to be questioned. And I think the reason why there's so many
questions surrounding people like this is because we do find books that are very fictionalized in
terms of placing the time, the chronologies off, purposeful rewrites and forgeries and
fabrications and things that we keep finding all over the place. And one of the things that
pertaining to Paul that I find very interesting is how you mentioned he goes to visit Nero.
I mean, this guy is meeting Nero and Nero is reigning right up here up to the war, yet we're
supposed to believe he's back here in the 50s and doing all this stuff. It just jumps around too
much. It just seems a little unrealistic. And well, the timeline has been shifted. And that's,
and that's why it doesn't seem right, because it's not right to what most people think, because
there are so many different things that have been shifted around. If you go by my timeline,
it'll be consistent. It'll match up with antiquities and war and make sense,
where you won't have the problems that you do with the traditional timeline.
Right. Obviously, there's no reconciling the situation there. What are your thoughts of that
book Operation Messiah in light of all this? Because you make a good point that Paul's after
the money. He's obviously probably after the fame as well. I mean, as much as he's Paul,
which is the small one, he's still, I'm the chief of centers, you know, like, why are you saying
that? So that there seems to be a little ego in that it's like, I'm the humblest one in all of
this crowd. Let me tell you, what do you think is going on there? What do you think? Do you think
that that's, I mean, do you think he's working with the Romans to make a mission here happen?
Or do you think this is just one very conceited, money-grubbing, singled out guy?
I think originally he might have been working with Agrippa, his cousin. Agrippa, the king of Agrippa.
After Agrippa dies, and after he's thrown out of the movement, he probably just went back to
Jerusalem and got involved with politics. Because you see him being a player on the field, not after
James is murdered, he's stoned. You know, you talk about all the high priest naming, but then
the Saul character is now being an envoy to meet with Agrippa II. He's going to meet Caesar. So
it's interesting that he, money's there and power is there. It's no longer now in the 60s associated
with his Christ movement, because he's been totally discredited. After the war, he can
do whatever he wants. He's still around. You know, they say he and Peter both died in Roman 64 AD.
Well, Josephus has Saul meeting Caesar.
So you cut out there at the last second. I think the internet's delayed. You said
they both died in 64 AD is what the tradition holds. But Paul didn't die.
No, he was still, he was still kicking, and we don't even, we don't know anything about Peter.
I mean, maybe that tradition's true, but certainly the one with Paul is not, because he was still
alive, kicking, doing whatever he could to make a buck. And you got to remember these Herodians,
they weren't all like independently wealthy. They had like even Agrippa, he had to make friends with
Caligula and Claudius and borrow money. And he was a real piece of work, really trying to get
money from people. You know, so it's like, even though he ends up being very successful, because
they, you know, Caligula gives them all this land and he becomes even bigger than Herod the Great.
But, you know, at first he didn't have the money. So here we got Paul. He found a way to make a lot
of money with, within the movement. He gets kicked out, he got to find another way to make money.
So, you know, and I'm sure he, you know, he, he probably was scamming people all over the place.
So Simon, Simon Peter, John, these are sons of Judas. Is this Simon?
I'm sorry. There's a Simon and a James, or the son, they're the ones that were crucified.
And he probably had other sons too. So who is this Simon of his son? Was this the Simon Bargiona?
Or a different Simon? There were so many different Simons. There's, there's a Simon,
is it another Simon the zealot? Right. Okay, explain that one too.
Right. And then you have, you have the sons of Thunder. You have in, who are those of,
I think the sons of Thunder were the two that were Judas the Galilean.
Because that fits the whole story. The sons of Thunder stays in a boat and lets the sons leave
and doesn't do anything. Does that sound like thunder? Unless it was a joke,
yeah, the sons of Thunder over here. But if they're the sons of Judas the Galilean,
then they're the sons of Thunder. This is a fascinating discussion and I really enjoy
what you do here. There's so many avenues we can route a trail into, but I think,
I think I want to leave this where we're at. Do you have anything you'd like to add to this,
just for a starting interview? Well, okay, I'm happy to come back anytime
that you want me to come back. But I would like, if people do get the book and start reading it,
ask questions, give the questions to you. And then when we have interviews, so we have people that
are actually looking through the book and getting good questions and getting a little deeper into
the stuff. Because I had interviews before where the person interviewing me confuses
Judas the Galilean with Judas Ascariot. And you go, well, geez, the interview is shot already
because you got to have a little knowledge. So I would just hope that your listeners would
get the book, read it, study it, write down questions, and then I'll be happy to come back
and, you know, answer or at least try to answer the questions. There are some things I'm totally
stumped on that I'm thinking, I don't know about this. I've tried to follow as many of the characters
as far as I could. Yeah, you, Delvin, you've got a lot of notes in here. There's a lot of Brandon,
you've got Eisenman, you've got, you know, there's a lot of different people that you're pulling from
in the bibliography and in your notes. It's definitely worthy of checking out and then
you have the Slavonic Josephus. There's 347 pages of like written material in this subject just on
this one book and you've written many books. So ladies and gentlemen, go down into the description
of this book. Be sure to get it. If you don't want a hard copy, get the e-book. It's really,
really interesting. I mean, I have not read the whole thing yet myself and I need to go through
this because it's a fascinating question. I really appreciate you joining me here on this show.
How can they get a hold of you or if they can't get a hold of you, at least what can they do?
Do you have any platform websites? Anything? I guess if anybody wants to, they could reach me
through email and you have my email. So you could, you know, if they could get a hold of you,
you could give them my email and that would, that'd be fine. And I could individually answer
questions or yeah, that's fine. Okay, awesome. Well, look, do you have a website? There's a website
that's Judas the Galilean. I think it's, it's been so long since I've worked on it.
I told you, I'm not a computer geek. I need to do that. I need to, you know, get a good website.
But by the book, there's another book that's 99 cents, an e-book that has a lot of the same
material, but it all has new stuff in it. And it's, it's a little longer book. So it's got a
lot of good stuff in it that this book doesn't have in it. So you got the two of those together,
you'd have everything you need. That's all we need. Well, thank you so much, Daniel. I appreciate
you joining me. And I wanted to go ahead and just, you know, get this first interview out the way
and have you guys bring your questions to MythVision. If you have any ideas or thoughts you'd
like to throw out there, please do. You know me and Luther were here. And go down in the description.
There's all the goodies to be able to help us and to be able to get this book. Thanks a lot for
joining me, brother. Thank you. Yes, sir. You have a good day. All right.
