Please consider becoming a patron of MythVision Podcasts, you'll get early access to every
video including this amazing one and you can ask me personal questions, private message
me anything you'd like.
Professor Lynn Pagels I'm skipping ahead on some of my questions because when we talk
it flows, the conversation flows, and we have no choice but to discuss what's pertinent,
what's relevant to our mind at the time, and the suffering of Christ must be literally
true to Orthodox believers.
Do you think these persecutions and martyrdom of these saints are myths to back up their
theology of Christ?
For example, Professor Candida Maas comes to mind.
Also it seems Gnostics didn't care for persecution or martyrdom while Orthodox Christians were
applying their understanding to Christ's martyrdom.
Not all Gnostics seem to be anti-martyrdom, but not all Gnostics seem to be anti-martyrdom.
Did persecution of Orthodox Christians cause their position to become more popular?
This is the true faith because we're being persecuted like our Lord, like Peter, like
James, like Paul, so that helped validate the truth of their claims in some sense.
There are lots of questions about persecution, and originally people pictured that it was
universal, that every Christian was in immediate danger of being arrested and tortured.
That's overdone, but recently someone like Professor Maas has simply said, oh well it's
just a myth.
There were very few people who actually got killed and tortured compared to the number
of Christians there were, and they basically build themselves up as victims in some way.
What I think she misses here is the fact that you don't have to kill a lot of people to
terrify a whole population.
That's what crucifixion was for.
The Romans crucified Jesus and others, it was public, it was like a billboard, as Paula
Frederickson said, like don't become a revolutionary, this could happen to you.
So Jesus' crucifixion, like that of many others, thousands of other Jews, was to tell
the rest of them, don't try it.
And that still works.
You don't have to crucify and torture, kill a lot of people.
But Christians were persecuted actively.
What I understood about Candida Maas's work, she was writing at Notre Dame.
She was not liking hearing a lot of Protestants talk as if they were persecuted when they're
actually affluent, well-off members of Christian communities, seeing themselves as persecuted
with a kind of persecution complex.
And she was challenging that point of view with contemporary Christians that she was
attacking.
And that's what she was writing the book about, really.
She's now come much more upfront with it, and she's deliberately writing a challenging
certain kinds of Protestant views, which I think is much better than trying to pretend
that that's the way it was in the early church.
But the death of Jesus, some people said, well, who was the Christ anyway?
Was Christ, do we mean the spirit inside of Jesus?
If we mean the spirit inside of Jesus, well, the spirit can't be tortured.
The spirit is not the body.
The body was tortured, the spirit was not.
So some people made that distinction.
Most Christians did not, whether they were called Gnostic or Orthodox.
They understood Jesus' crucifixion was a horrifying event.
There's no worse and more terrible, shameful, agonizing death than crucifixion in the Roman
Empire.
It was a powerful statement and the idea that a crucified man who ended his life as a complete
failure in any human terms would suddenly then have his followers say, we saw him.
He came back.
The worst thing happened to him, and he wasn't defeated.
God has vindicated him.
We believe in him.
This was a huge vindication.
So I don't think it's what inspired other people to seek martyrdom.
But when they were arrested and tortured, those who didn't give in did feel they were
imitating the passion of Christ and that doing that, and they still do, you know, there's
still Christians who are crucified and shot to death and beheaded by people who hate Christians
in parts of this world, in parts of Africa and Egypt.
This is going on today.
It's happened also in Asia, in parts of Asia and China.
So martyrdom of Christians is not over.
And it is the way that many realize that they may have to confess their faith.
So it's always been part of Christian tradition.
So in a sense, I guess in light of the question that I've rose about persecution and martyrdom
validating that we're on the right path to, it's almost like an assurance of saying it
became more like you can purchase your salvation through this.
It's like you legitimately are, you know, the Muslims have something similar, some forms
of it.
Yes, yes.
Jihad, you know, if I die for this, I'm automatically going to heaven's 72 virgins depending on,
you know.
Well, certain leaders, certain bishops too, encourage people not to give in.
If you're arrested, don't give in.
You have to confess Christ because otherwise he will deny you in heaven.
So yes, martyrdom was encouraged and other Christians were troubled that they're, that
young people were encouraged to martyr themselves because it was a way to get to heaven.
Although, and they said, well, this is the quickest route.
It was a way, just like the jihadists say, you know, if you or your son or daughter dies
as a martyr, they immediately go to heaven and they have special rewards.
That's part of Christian teaching too.
So I want to get back to what you're saying.
Oh, and yes, and people like Churchillian who saw people he knew tortured in the public
sports arena, dying in horrible ways, entertaining the crowd.
He said, he said, he watched that and he thought, how can those people do that?
How do they dare go to their deaths with that courage?
He said, this, the more you kill us, the more we multiply the blood of Christians is seed.
And Justin Martyr, another man, Greek philosopher coming from a pagan family, watched people
being tortured in the arena in the Coliseum in Rome about the year 150.
And he said, I've seen criminals die in the arena.
They scream, they plead for their lives, they are desperate.
These people are courageous.
They go to their death with a kind of courage that is like Socrates.
I mean, they're like philosophers, but they're just ordinary people.
They're not even educated.
How do they do that?
And Justin said, he liked Churchillian watching such things, became a Christian, which is
totally contrary to what the Romans had in mind.
But he also said, that's how he became a Christian because he felt there was power in these people
that was inexplicable if it didn't come from a divine source.
So that's what they meant when they said, when Churchillian said, the blood of Christians
is seed for the church.
The more you kill us, the more we multiply.
And for Gnostics that are anti-Martyrdom, or it seemed like some of them were not fans
of doing that at all, did that help these Orthodox guys kind of go, you're definitely
not true Christians, if you're not seeing that this is, I mean, it's like, it's like
the New Testament, they're, Jesus is using the Old Testament or Hebrew Bible as his
source, right?
So now you've got Christians, three, four, five centuries after Christ.
And here they are seeing in their own scriptures by this time, they're looking at their own
apostles and their own prophets and they're going, hey, they're dying, like we must be
doing something, not saying they're encouraging, like, go die tomorrow, no, but my point is,
it's validating the suffering servant concepts that we've seen in Christ, it's validating
exactly what happened to Paul, Peter, James, and these Gnostics aren't doing that on a,
it doesn't seem like that's happening to them.
So obviously they're not authentic, or this can't be the true faith, or something like
that.
Do you think that played a part?
You know, if Christians today had to consider that if we decide to meet and worship Jesus
today in somebody's house, we could get a knock on the door, the military could come
and arrest us and torture anybody who said that he or she was a Christian and then kill
us, we'd have an argument.
Some people would say, you've got to do it, you've got to stand up.
That's what makes you a Christian, you've got to follow Jesus through the passion, through
the crucifixion, through the death, and others would say, no, if you can get out of the city,
if you can go where the police can't find you, do that.
Because Jesus said, you know, flee into the hills.
He also said take up your cross and follow me, so it just depends on what you...
There are contrary sayings exactly as you say, Derek, in the Bible, in the New Testament.
Is there interpolations possibly?
I mean, taking a scene in the second century and they're gone.
I don't know.
I mean, I do think that take up your cross and follow me might have come later because
I'm not sure that many of them realized how Jesus would die until it actually happened.
It was too shocking.
But although he may have predicted it.
But I think there were so many sides taken.
And one thing that they would always challenge people they called heretics by saying, well,
you just don't have the conviction.
You just give up.
You just say, oh, no, I guess I'm not a Christian now.
So it's one of the most painful questions, most terrible questions that any person would
have to consider if that faith was being attacked by the state.
Thank you.
