Recently, I've been talking to my very good friends Abdullah Samir and apostate prophet.
Just trying to wonder what's going on and apostate prophet's really been taking it to
the Muslim apologist online about the Kaaba.
He's been debating this topic and discussing it and went to the lion's den.
All of these things.
Well, I ask an expert today, Dr. Shadi Nasir, is the Kaaba from pre-Islamic Arabic pagan
culture?
Or does it come from Judaism and Christianity?
Could it be a mix of both?
Ladies and gentlemen, join Mythision's Patreon, not only to support us, but there are 72 videos
that I did with Dr. Dennis R. McDonald and Richard Carrier, all on the Patreon, Early
Access.
You guys can ask personal questions when I go to interview these scholars and you're
helping Mythision grow.
A couple questions, and then I'd like to get into some other stuff here, is you sent me
the articles I was reading of some other scholarly work on the archaeology, and like my simple
question, I know it's not easy to answer probably, is the Kaaba.
And I hope I'm saying the right, the Kaaba.
Some people want to argue has pagan origins, others will argue that it's potentially working
within the Judaic or even Christian temples in the region, kind of doing both in a way.
There's a stone, and there's this controversy surrounding this that Muhammad is still making
this something that is holy, like it's something that they must practice as part of the religion.
Based on your scholarly research, and this may not be your particular specialty, but
what you've understood in your research, is this a pagan origin, and is this something
only from that region, because some traditionalist, if you will, will try to say, Abraham built
this house, you know, and maybe there's some traditional truth.
I'm trying to stretch here a little, saying, OK, what if it's a synagogue or a Christian
original temple or building, and in that kind of way, you could say, well, it's Abrahamic,
but there seems to be some pagan influence, too, on the Kaaba, and that's something that's
foreign from Christianity and Judaism.
So what do you know about the Kaaba?
So I mean, the first thing is that what we know, again, from the sources and from archaeology,
that the Kaaba is not unique.
There were other Kaabas in the region, right?
So there were many of them, so it was something that is common in that region, and we have
two early books, I think, from the 8th century, 9th century, you know, on pagan pre-Islamic
Arabia written by Muslim authors, and they describe some of these Kaabas, like 11 of
them or 12 of them, and Mecca was not the biggest, so there was even bigger Kaabas in
the south, in Najran or in Taif, right?
So the origins, again, I mean, I am not an expert on this, and even archaeology is limited,
unfortunately, for political reasons.
I don't think it's, you know, it's not easy to do excavations in this part of the world,
this part of the world, so maybe if, hopefully, there would be more excavations in the future,
we would know more.
But who built the Kaaba, you know, Abraham or Ishmael, or I don't know, no one knows,
right?
And the tradition said, it's even built, there is a tradition that it was Adam, when he descended
from heaven, you know, this is where he landed, and this is where they built the Kaaba, right?
So these are all, you know, traditions that, you know, they can fall into the category
of, you know, myths.
Some people would take them literally, and this is really what happened.
I can't verify that, no one can.
But in terms of pagan practices, I mean, for sure, the Kaaba before Islam was a center
for the Arab pagans.
There were idols there, it was worshipped, right, by the pagans.
Now, originally, was this the purpose for it, or was it an Abrahamic shrine?
And then it turned into a pagan practice, I'm not sure, an expert on this can explain
that from the readings I did, that probably, yes, as you said, probably it was a synagogue
or, you know, a square for a church, and then it turned, you know, into a pagan shrine
with idols, just like a church would turn into a mosque, or a mosque would turn into
a church.
So that was what I found that I thought was beautiful in a way, it shows the humanity,
and this is what I like to point out, I find beauty in this, you know, where people have
a religious experience from the tradition, I get what's kind of a religious experience
from the history of what's really going on, I love to find this out, and it demystifies
all of the myth, if you will.
This there was Byzantine artwork in early mosque, and things like this, and even I heard
in that PDF you sent me a Barbara, someone from Germany, I think her name is Barbara.
Let me ask you that, not even that, there was an expedition, there was an expedition
in the 80s, I think in 1981 or 1982, by German and Saudi archaeologists, okay, and they did
excavations in a place called the Fakariat al-Faw, F-A-W, right, so it was, it seems
that it was a center of trade between, beneath Mecca, before Mecca started to flourish,
so this place, it seems that it was a flourishing trade center before Mecca, 150 years before
Mecca, right, and they published the findings, you can find the book online, it's just excavations
of Qariat al-Faw, Q-A-R-Y-A-T-A-L-F-A-W, and there are pictures of dolphin, like statues,
right, and inscriptions of dolphins, of Byzantine shoes, and accessories, so even in the 400
AD, that's 200 years before Islam, right, there were, there was trade happening between
the north and the south, and Arabia, or Hijaz, it was not an isolated place that they were
not, they did not know what was happening around them.
They also had crosses inside of the, some of the artwork, I mean, it's not like what we
see with Jesus on it, but like symbols, I must ask you this, I've heard this said, and
I know, I need a scholar's angle here, because there are people who bash Islam, who have
a statement, and not all people who think this bash Islam, but they're, it's kind of
like this narrative that's spread, Allah wasn't just the name for God, but it was a actual
designated deity among the pantheon of pre-Islamic, Arabic tribes that had multiple gods, but
it may have been like the supreme God, and I'll use an example here, so that people
understand that I'm not coming out trying to be rude at all.
Yahweh, for example, the God of Abraham in the Old Testament, he was the God of gods,
he sat on a throne, he reigned over a council of other gods, when you read in Genesis, he
says, let us make man in our image, this is a divine council, and he is the God above
all gods, just like Marduk is the God above all gods in the pantheon of the Mesopotamian
deities at some point, and then it might have been inlil or different deities, so it's
Allah.
I mean, this image is also, to what extent it exists in the Quran, not in this kind of
description, but the image of God sitting on a throne, and the angels are around him,
and then even in the Quran, when God speaks, he speaks with the we, which is interpreted
in grammar to be the majestic we, but there are also other scholars, but sometimes God
says I, sometimes we, right?
So there are other scholars who said this we, it implies this kind of pantheon, like this
image of a king or a god sitting on a throne and surrounded by the angels.
So yes, the image is there, right?
Is the name Allah though?
Does that derive from the pre-Islamic Arabic pantheon, where it's a specific?
I mean, I read that, I'm not, you know, I'm not an expert on this, I read that, you know,
it is how it is derived, is it, you know, accurate to what extent, you know, I don't
know, you know, we have scholars who think that though, right?
Yeah, and that's, I mean, again, deriving.
So what is the, again, I say, you know, people are, you know, they, it's legitimate if, you
know, if they think about these issues and, you know, in that, in that fashion, but so
what's the alternative?
Is that, is the alternative that the name Allah, for example, just came out of nothing?
No, I was thinking one of two things.
Maybe you can get where I'm coming from.
The name just simply means God, right?
And so it's kind of like saying Yahweh or like, like to the Israelites, they had the
term for God, they might have used the term El, or like, they'll actually say Hashim,
they won't say God.
They have a respectable term they use that denotes God, whereas the Jews or Christians
even have God, and they would say, you know, the Christ and the Father or whatever they
might have as their analogy, I was thinking one of two things.
The pre-Islamic pagan traditions had a pantheon with a specific deity that was the supreme
deity, and they incorporate this deity into their monotheistic revelation, where they
say you're at the top and you are God, you are all, and it's one God, or they are looking
at the Christians and Jews idea of monotheism, they're saying, nah, you Christians are right
only some, but you're wrong some, you Jews are right some, you're wrong some, but your
idea of monotheism, and we have the, in Arabic, it just means God.
So it's one of the two things I think, or what a combination of both.
I don't see a problem that it's a combination of both, and you know, and the name Allah,
it existed before Islam, right?
So I mean, the Prophet's father's name was the servant of God, like Abdullah, right?
So the name existed before that, it's not, people have to understand that when Islam
came and when Muhammad was preaching Islam, he was not preaching something new, okay?
So it's not, you know, he was saying something that people back then, what are you saying?
We are not familiar with these notions, right?
And even the stories, the biblical stories that he was telling them, they already knew
these stories.
Tell us about the story of Alexander.
It's in the Quran, it says, you know, they ask me, they're asking us about Alexander.
Tell us about, they knew who Alexander was.
If it's Alexander, if the one with the two horns, if it was Alexander or whoever, I'm
saying that the Joseph, you know, they know, tell us a story, and he would tell them the
story.
So they knew, he didn't tell them about Confucius or someone.
Good point.
He didn't tell them about someone in the East that they didn't know, no, all the stories
in the Quran and all the concepts, they are pre-Islamic.
They come from the pre-Islamic Near East context.
Otherwise, no one would follow this man.
Good point.
What are you telling us?
Who's Confucius?
If you want to tell us about someone great, you know, in the East, if he was a prophet,
you know, or Buddha, he didn't talk about the Buddha, right?
Why?
So the point is, when you talk about the origins of Islam, Muslims themselves, they don't say,
well, Muhammad came and then he reinvented the wheel.
No one says that.
Islam is a continuity of Judaism and Christianity.
That's what he says.
Now, you want to say, he plagiarized it, okay, fine, you can say if this is what, you know,
if what you believe in.
But I'm saying that from our perspectives in the way that we deal with that, it is only
natural that you have a new religion.
It says itself that I am coming after Judaism and Christianity.
And of course, it's going to incorporate many of the, it's not going to, again, start
things again.
I'm just finishing things now, whether this is true or not, whether people like that or
not.
That's another issue.
So the name of God, of Allah, whether it came from, you know, the pagan pantheon incorporated
into the monotheism of Christianity and Judaism, Judaism, that's normal.
Just as many Islamic practices were pagan practices and they were incorporated into
Islam pilgrimage, for example, right?
Yep.
The same, I mean, it is described in the Muslim sources how pagan Arabs were doing pilgrimage
around the Kaaba, the things that they were saying, even like, it's exactly the same phrases
that Muslims now say when they are doing pilgrimage.
It's exactly the same phrases that the pagans were using, but you replace the name of the
idol with the name of God.
That's it.
Holy snikes.
I absolutely love this stuff.
Yeah.
And I actually want more Muslim friends, you know, I know that a lot of them that they
won't like me because they're like, yeah, you're looking for the human origins.
But like, there's going to be a lot of scholars, I think, that are Muslims that I'm going to
have friends that are going to be friends of mine for this reason.
I'm trying to take a balanced approach.
As you could see, I really want to be respectable because I know it's sacred to many people,
just like Christianity is sacred.
I do poke holes because I was a Christian.
No, we have to poke holes.
That's what we do.
I mean, if other people are not comfortable with poking holes, they just won't.
But I think that's what we do in academia or we are curious and we want to poke holes.
We are curious.
We want to understand the origins of things.
Sometimes it would hurt other people's feelings, you know, I understand that.
But you know, I think that's a grand quest to poke holes.
That's not my goal.
My goal isn't to do that.
It will do that no matter what.
That's what's going to happen because people get offended.
My goal is to try and not worry about what people feel.
I'm only interested in what I can find out and learn and try to understand the origins
because I think too many people just they propagate this idea.
It's their beliefs, but they propagate this idea and then they want to pressure everyone
else to believe their idea.
And I like, no, sorry, I think you're wrong.
And if you're going to be allowed to run around telling other people they're wrong and that
Islam is the truth and that Allah is going to burn me in hell and this, this, that and
all this stuff and you're going to force people, you know, I'm sorry.
I agree with you.
And again, that's my personal opinion.
So not, not, not, not to be footnoted, you know, is that, you know, mean what you are
saying also applies among Muslims themselves, right?
So you see that there is a movement, you know, from a, from a certain group to discredit
other groups and vice versa.
So what's happening in the past also 30 years that you have, you know, a group of Muslims
who are more active, let's say, you know, on media, probably internet in advocating what
they think Islam should be or is, right?
And actually, I mean, I don't have numbers, but, you know, this group of Muslims, they
are the minority in, you know, so they are, I would say 10%, 15%, maximum maximum of
Muslims, but they are the ones with the most resources.
Okay.
And you have the other historically majority of Muslims, the 85% who don't have such resources.
It doesn't mean the 5% or 10% they are wrong.
I'm not saying that.
I'm saying that they constitute a minority, you know, in Sunni Islam, at least, and they
pressure other people and what you are saying is that this is what Islam is.
And of course, you have the other 85% or 80%, they have different, you know, views on
that. And they said, no, this is what Islam is.
And they pressure each other, even without even going outsides that, no, you don't know
what you're saying.
No, you don't know what you're saying.
I am right.
You are wrong.
I think it happens everywhere.
It's part of human nature, I would say.
So I did a live show on my channel, Dr.
Nassir, and I had two Muslims and they were arguing over a Quranic verse that talks
about, is it pre-pubescent girls or post-pubescent in the idea of Muhammad marrying Aisha?
And does the, I know, I know, and I was like, you're on a skeptic channel talking
about this, hello, but they don't, you know, they didn't care.
And then two of them said, yes, this is pre-pubescent and post, it's talking about
both. It's not just one.
And yes, it's saying in this time, for whatever reason in the culture, this was
acceptable, or at least they're saying, this is what the Prophet did.
And this is OK that he consummated with a nine-year-old.
Now, we, to our standards, you already know how that is.
I don't even want to go there.
We know today we don't accept this, or at least in America.
Right.
The world might think differently, but the other guy said, are you kidding me?
And he started to yell.
He called the other guy a Taliban.
Oh, I was like, oh, my gosh, did you just call him a Taliban?
And like, I didn't even have to poke holes.
I just sat back.
I grabbed my popcorn.
You were you were enjoying the show, huh?
So well, after about an hour of talking about women's, you know, periods,
I was like, OK, this is no more.
Let's stop. Let's talk something else.
You know, it's I find it amusing that mostly really men, you know,
they discuss these issues, you know, whether, you know, the wife of the Prophet
was nine or eight or whatever.
And then you don't have women themselves who are probably more concerned
with this issue and then they want to discuss it how it is.
It's always coming from the other side.
I don't know. But yeah, I heard some of these, you know, debates, etc.
So it's it's unfortunate that even with an issue like that,
you know, it leads people to consider the other person blasphemous.
Yeah, they won't think it's before nine or after nine.
So.
Ladies and gentlemen, join the vision,
patron, not only to support us, but there are 72 videos that I did.
Dr. Dennis on the phone and Richard Carrier, all on the patron, early access.
You guys can ask personal questions when I go to interview these scholars
and your help and myth vision grow.
