Help MedVision keep bringing you material by becoming a Patreon member, as well as PayPal.
Like, share, subscribe, and comment.
Mr. Jason, folks. We were talking briefly about the Epic of Gilgamesh and the Bible.
What does it have to do with the Bible? I mean, I've heard about the flood myths. I've
heard about this in just in passing, but you say there's more. And so let's talk about
that, including that into the conversation. But everything Epic and Gilgamesh and the Bible
that you know of. So the Epic of Gilgamesh, the first time you kind of see an influence is actually
in the Garden of Eden story. Gilgamesh is on this quest to become immortal. He wants to learn the
secret of immortality. And he learns it from this man named Utnapishtam. And if you're going to
try to Google that, it's U-T-N-A-P-I-S-H-T-I-M. So Utnapishtam, you have no idea how many times
I've typed that word. I start to spell it, and I just kind of see the thing autofill in my head
the way it went on my phone. You remind me of that Army of Darkness movie. You ever saw that back
in the 90s, and he's supposed to remember the three words when he gets to the Book of the Dead.
Yeah, Klaatu, Klaatu, Klaatu, Klaatu. Yeah, yeah. I just don't have his chin. He's got a great chin.
No, so Utnapishtam, you know, yeah, I literally, when I say the word, I see it pop up, you know,
the way my phone does. So Utnapishtam is sort of like the Sumerian Noah. And so Gilgamesh,
he tracks his dude down, but he's still alive because he's becoming mortal after the Great Flood.
And Gilgamesh is the fifth king of the city of Uruk after the global flood. And he tracks down
Utnapishtam, and he's like, you know, Utna, how do I live forever like you? You know, because my best
friend just died, and I don't want that to happen. I'm going to live forever. And he's like, oh,
look, you have to go to this certain place, and you're going to have to find this fruit that gives
you eternal life. And when you find that, if you get this fruit and you eat it, this is basically
the fruit of the gods. It comes from like the, you know, the, it's the fruit of life. This is what
the gods eat so they can stay alive. And if you eat this, you'll live forever like me. But it's
going to be really difficult to get to. And he's like, Gilgamesh. So he goes and he finds the fruit
and he gets it. But he doesn't eat it right away. He sets it down because he's tired because it was
such an ordeal to get it. And then a snake comes along and eats it. Now the snake gets to live
forever. It has stolen the secret of immortality from Gilgamesh, from the humans. And so no one,
except for Napishtim, is going to live forever. And Gilgamesh is going to have to be like everyone
else on earth. And he's going to have to eventually grow old and die. And so this snake kind of coming
between humans and immortality and the fruit of life. And then because of that, you know,
humans get, you know, grow old and suffer and die. We see that parallel at the end of the genesis
to Creation Store at the end of the Garden of Eden. So at the end of Genesis 3,
same thing happens. They get kicked out of the garden, you know. And the snake is to this day
still the symbol of immortality and health. I mean, just look at the side of an ambulance.
There's the staff, you know, with the staff of Asclepius. It's a Greek myth.
Well, that was popular throughout the Mediterranean world. It even pops up in the
Bible in Numbers 21, I believe. Noah basically erects a statue to that same snake god. And people
who look on it are then healed from the curse. I believe that snake god's name is Pam. I believe.
Yeah. In there, they call it Nehushden, which is the same word they use in Genesis 3 with
the talking snake. It was actually a common deity. He was actually worshipped in the Jerusalem
Temple for quite a while. It's mentioned, I believe, in Second Kings, where they talk about how they
take the statue that Moses made and they throw it out. They're like, okay, we're not going to worship
that snake god anymore. We're only going to worship Yahweh. But that was worshipped for
centuries, if not thousands of years in Jerusalem. It was just one of their gods. It was their god of
like health. It was connected with wisdom, the Asherah tree, you know, all sorts of things.
But anyways, that's one of the little parallels. That's pretty brief. But another one comes in
the story of Jacob. So Jacob, he goes off, you know, he ticked off his brother Esau. He's kind
of afraid of him because Esau's a scary dude. And he goes off and he goes to find him a wife.
And he finds like four of them. And he comes back and he's about to cross the Jebek River.
And it's at night. And when this happens, he is set upon by this mysterious figure. And they
get into this wrestling match in the middle of the night at last for hours. And in this wrestling
match, it's very difficult. He becomes wounded. He gets a lip for the rest of his life. So it's
like actually physically alters him. He also gets the new name of Israel. And this particular scene
is very similar to a scene in the Epic of Gilgamesh. And so in this scene in Gilgamesh,
Gilgamesh is running around. He's causing all kinds of trouble. And the gods, they want to take
him down a peg. So they build a man. And similar to Jacob's brother Esau, this is a wild man of
the woods. He's all he's completely covered in hair. He looks like Sasquatch. Okay. And so this
Sasquatch dude, he's made by the gods. And he's supposed to come in there and fight Gilgamesh.
Okay. And so he's this divine creation. Gilgamesh has no idea who this dude is.
And he's about to cross a threshold the same way that Jacob is about to cross a threshold,
the Jabba River. And he's set upon by this wild man. And they get into this huge wrestling match.
Now, in both cases, they're set upon by a divine figure. It happens when they're about to cross a
threshold. They have no idea the identity of this figure until the end of the fight.
In both cases, the match is not a struggle. It's not like a mortal type of struggle. You know,
they're not actually trying to kill each other. It's just a wrestling match. Okay. The goal is to
subdue the opponent, not to kill the opponent. They're both leaders of their people at the time.
You know, there are numerous parallels. Okay. And in this thing, Jacob eventually,
he eventually wins and he pins his opponent. He's eventually victorious. Both of the heroes are
victorious. Jacob defeats his mysterious opponent the same way that Gilgamesh does.
Now, at this point, some people point out, they say, Oh, in the epica Gilgamesh, it says that
Gilgamesh ended up on his knees. Doesn't that mean he lost? It says that he ended up with one knee
on the ground and one foot on the ground. He basically like taking one knee. This was a victory
pose in the ancient Near East after a wrestling match. This is not saying that he was forced to
his knees. This is that he was victorious. And then he basically assumed the traditional pose of
the victor. Okay. So it's not like he got pinned down on the ground. No, he is victorious. And this
is how they posed. And so you have all of this. And then after that, the opponent, despite being
divine in nature, ends up losing. And the opponent then reveals their identity to the hero Gilgamesh
or Jacob. And the opponent then blesses the hero. And this blessing, it comes in both instances,
it's a two part blessing. The first part deals with the hero's identity and their legacy. And then the
second part of the blessing basically tells them that they are going to defeat a bunch of future
enemies. And so it's like the same format, the same thing happening in both. And so
you have all these different parallels between this one scene in the Epic of Gilgamesh and this
one particular scene in the story of Jacob. And while in Jacob's story, he's not fighting with
his brother, he's fighting with either an angel of God or with God himself, which the latter
makes more sense because he's renamed Israel, which means struggles with El or struggles with God.
And if you actually read the older versions, it says that he got in a fight with God. And then it's
like, yeah, you know, it then reveals himself, I'm God. And he actually says that he needs to let
him up because he basically pins this creature down. He pins this, you know, his opponent.
And then his opponent is like, look, you have to let me up so I can basically get the dawn going.
He has to go and pick the sun up and carry it over the sky. This isn't just an angel, this is God.
And so he got in a fight. And we actually have parry. It seems funny. We have parallels of this
all over the place, including as far away as India, where a guy does the same thing. He gets in a
fight, he gets ambushed by a God and not just like a little lesser deity. No, it's like a big head
hodge and he pins the dude down. He's like, you got to let me up so I can pick up the sun.
And he's like, all right, you know, and so we see a similar thing, you know, Jacob lets him up.
And because of that, he's sort of made like the father of the nation. And so some people actually
think it was sort of like a bargain that this was a separate story from the Abraham story and that
he was sort of a nobody, but because he defeated God. And God was like, well, you got to let me
up so I can pick up the sun. That there's a verse that an older version of the story would have said
that Jacob said, okay, I'll let you up. But you have to give me my own nation. And then the God
said, okay, you can have the land of Israel. And that's why he gets the name Israel. Because otherwise
the story doesn't make sense in the form that we have it. I mean, he was already going to get that
because he was a descendant of Abraham. You know, it makes no sense. And even if not, we have earlier
in the story where he tricks his father, Isaac, into giving him the nation, you know, giving him
his blessing, and he inherits the nation instead of his older brother, Esau. So this thing of him
getting this, it doesn't make sense in the form we have it, it makes more sense that it was a bargain
with this God. And in the Epic of Gilgamesh, the hairy man he fought against, I mean, nothing's
verbatim, right? So is that man divine? Yes, he was created by the gods just to take Gilgamesh
down a pig. Because Gilgamesh was sort of abusing his power. He was like going and sleeping with
all the women, like, you get married, guess what? The first night, your wife is spending with him,
not you. You know, he was very abusive of his kingly power. And it's sort of a tale about the
corruption of people and power. And the deities come, they knock him down a pig with Inkidu.
What's the name of that? Do you remember the name of the hairy creature?
His name was Inkidu, E-N-K-I-D-U. And he then becomes like a brother. Or because some of these
words are ambiguous, in some translations, he becomes a lover of Gilgamesh, which may seem
weird, because you think ancient Nerees, you know, they're very, you know, anti gay. But we have
hints in the translations that David and Saul's son...
Yeah, what was the name? Was it Jesse? No, Jesse was David's dad.
Yeah, that's right. Oh, what was his name? I cannot even think right now, but I know who you're talking about.
Yeah, it was one of Saul's sons. And he was like David's best friend. And some of these words in
there are sort of ambiguous. And there's one scene where he says that, you know, he's like,
I love you more than I love a woman. He doesn't say I love you like my brother, you know.
You could take it that way. You could take it like warrior type.
Right, but it's like you... And seeing as how you also have some parallels between the story of David
and the story of, you know, and the stories in Homer's Iliad, he may have been gay or bi. I mean,
this was actually popular. This was very common with heroes at the time. Their prohibition against
homosexuality is likely a later addition to the theology. So it would make sense that, you know,
they would have some of these heroes who were gay. Real quick on this note. I'm sorry,
I'm jumping from that topic back to the hairy guy. Yeah. Do you think that what the Bible
scenario did is they separated Esau from the divine character, making his brother, the human
brother, hairy, and yet remaining the God he fought to be kind of like both characters,
if you combine them before you want the epic of Gilgamesh is saying.
Right. And there's actually some wording in the story that seems like that may have been the case,
because this figure that Jacob fought, it seems like he's trying to get away before the dawn.
And one hypothesis is that he needs to keep his identity hidden. And then when Esau comes along,
because right after that, Esau comes along. Now, Jacob and Esau, they had this big feud,
because Jacob basically cheated him out of his inheritance. And so Jacob will become the father
of the nation. And Esau, he can go suck rocks. So he's worried that when they meet up, that they're
going to have to kill each other. You know, and that's like, that's in the story, you know.
But then Esau comes along and he's like, yeah, okay, everything's good. And the way the scene
plays out is very anticlimactic. And there are some certain phrases that some scholars have
pointed out that are strange. And some have said that maybe we're supposed to understand
that the stranger at the river is Esau. And he was basically fighting him.
Esau does represent the sun, too, by the way.
And he, right, because he's red. Yes, yes, he's a represent, he's basically the sun.
He's one of these mythical figures that becomes historicized. And he's also, like in Kiddu,
Esau, or Edom, is basically their Adam. He was created by the gods to be the first person.
And he's the primordial man of the Edomites. And then Israel just kind of borrowed that story
because they liked it. Dr. Price talks about that. He says Edom and the that there were no vows
in the land. Right, right. They basically read earth. Right, right. Which is what Adam was made
Adam means earth. You know, Esau or Edom means earth. And he's red. He's supposed to be linked
with the sun, you know, the all the red hair, just like Samson or the sun god Shamash, and the rays
of sun, the hair, you know, these are things you these are patterns you begin to recognize.
But scholars have pointed out that the way the scene with the stranger ends, and then the subsequent
scene with Esau popping up and basically being like, okay, yeah, our struggle's over.
You, you can have your inheritance. I think it's supposed to be understood as this struggle.
Basically, it put the icing on the cake. Okay, yeah. You beat me. We're good. You tricked me once
with the battle of wits. And now you beat me in a physical fight. You get the thing. And he was
originally supposed to be like a deity. You beat me. You get the land. Now let me go pick up the sun.
You know, but now he's historicized. He's supposed to be just a man, but I still like this idea of
the father of their nation, fighting the frigging deity and winning, you know, because you've got
you've got to explain his name, his name, Israel struggles with El.
Well, if he's no longer struggling with Esau in this scene, if Esau, if the sun god
has now become just a man, right, he's just like a barbarian, some hairy dude, you know,
he's Sasquatch. That doesn't explain Jacob's new name. You've got to have him fight a god.
Right. I think it's funny after that narrative to use that explains the split. And it explains all
these weird little things in the story. You realize that originally, Esau and the stranger
were not two different things. It was one divine being that represented a sun god.
But they were trying to get away from polytheism. The same way you can't have the sun god Shamash
anymore. So you take all the stories and you make them about a man named Samson.
Well, you do that. But now you have a contradiction. He fights this, this wild man. But his name
means that he fought a God. Okay, let's have the fight be with the God. And the wild man just
acknowledges it. Done. Problem solved. But then you have all these little clues, little tidbits
in both sections of the scene. Because with the exception of that one scene that has these little
problems, it matches up with the story of Gilgamesh and Inkydo. Perfectly. It's just when you get to
that one part. So I think they split it on that note. I think it's interesting because when I used
to read and watch the movies and Jacob comes to meet Esau and the Warriors, they make it so just
literal and everything that we've learned growing up. I think it's interesting that
when he goes to meet him, I was anticipating when I was reading the story, it's like a movie kind of
and you're like, it's about to go down. You can tell Jacob in the narrative at least. Maybe I'm
putting too much into it. But I thought he was afraid the way they played it up. Like he took
his brother's thing, his brother the warrior, his brother the beast. And he's afraid to meet this guy
and he sends half his family in front of him to go see Esau first. Like, hey, go show them, say
we're here on behalf of like, listen, we don't want problems and then notice. I may lose some of my
wives, but hopefully. But hopefully we're good. He's happy with the camels, happy with the women,
that kind of thing. And he's like, hey, and then when they meet, they're like, hey, we're good.
Part of me wonders if that was the reason they're trying to narrate out making them good or if
I find it funny that they have no more problems. Like after this scenario,
there's no other issues ever with Esau. Of course, the narrative picks up and continues on to the
next sentence. And yeah, yeah, because after that, in the story of Gilgamesh, the basically the source
material, Gilgamesh and Inkidu, they become best friends, possibly lovers. They are inseparable
until Inkidu eventually dies. And it is earth shattering to Gilgamesh.
You have to look for the eternal life remedy. Right, right. So all right, last part, we've
got to talk about this Ecclesiastes scenario that you say is verbatim or somewhat.
Yes, yes. So this comes from Ecclesiastes nine, seven through nine, I believe. Yeah, yeah. Ecclesiastes
nine, seven through nine. So what happens is they're talking about the meaning of life,
basically. They're like, what's the meaning of life? And they essentially, what they basically come
up with is basically the Bible just says yellow. It's like, look, just live it up, get you some wine,
have you some fun, you'll just have a blast. Enjoy it while you can because it's temporary,
which seems kind of weird in the Old Testament, right? Because it's like, look, life's gonna suck.
You know, you need to do everything kosher and live this miserable existence where the whole
thing is devoted to temple purity. And it's just going to be miserable. And then you go to shield.
You know, but this is just like, live it up and have fun. But there's this passage in
the Epic of Gilgamesh. He encounters this goddess Siduri, I believe, who's, she's like a goddess of
wine. Okay. And so already you can see, that's why they're saying that. And he's basically looking
for advice. And her answer is like, look, you're gonna die. You might as well have fun while you're
here. So here's some fermented grape juice, get drunk, have fun, live your life, enjoy it while
it lasts. And the phraseology in there is so strikingly similar that numerous scholars have,
they're like, look, this is from the same source, you know, this section, these two verses in Ecclesiastes,
they are, they are taking this almost verbatim from these lines in Gilgamesh from Siduri. I'm
going to read it real quick out loud. Oh yeah, go close this up. Go eat your food with joy and drink
your wine with a happy heart because God has already approved your works. Let your clothes be always,
always be white and do not spare precious ointment on your head. Enjoy life with your beloved wife
during all the days of your fleeting life that God has given you on earth during all your fleeting
days for that is your reward in life and in your burdensome work on earth. And that, if people want
to go to the Bible to look for some kind of inspiration for how to live their life or anything,
that's a hard passage to beat. Look, you're gonna die. You've got a limited time on earth,
it could be gone like that, like tomorrow it could be over. Go spend some time with your family,
have some fun, don't take it too seriously, and enjoy it.
