Please consider becoming a patron of MythVision Podcasts, you'll get early access to every
video including this amazing one, and you can ask me personal questions, private message
me anything you'd like.
Professor Tevor, we did Luke, we talked about from Paul, Mark, Matthew, then we ended up
in Luke about this resurrection theme, can you segue us into John and tell us what's
happening there, and there's a big picture, we're already getting a picture painted, you're
doing a great job, there's a great canvas here, and keep painting the picture if you're
all getting into John.
Well, what happens in John, I'm going to remind you of Mark first, and Paul, because
that's the early view, and then we're going to contrast it.
What happens, remember that Jesus had said in Mark 9, some of you won't taste of death
until you've seen the kingdom of God come with power.
And then seven days later, he takes three of them up, and they could see the kingdom
come with power.
So that's the foretaste experience, okay, transformation.
Paul says this, very similar, flesh and blood will not inherit the kingdom of God.
Same thing.
As you got to get, that was just a vision of what's going to happen at the end.
So keep that in mind, flesh and blood can't inherit the kingdom.
So if Jesus did walk out of the tomb as a corpse and walk around and eat some fish or
bread, that's not the coming of the kingdom of God.
The kingdom of God is this huge transformation.
That's when the caterpillar comes out of the cocoon, and it's flying, it's the monarch
butterfly, okay.
And until that happens, you don't have the big event.
Okay, we'll come back to the paracels.
So you go to John.
Now John has something very interesting.
The first 10 verses of John 20 is a separate story of the empty tomb, different from all
the others.
Mary Magdalene comes alone before sunrise, and we're not going to worry about harmonization
now.
We can talk about that.
Let's just read what it says.
And she arrives, and she was wondering, how am I going to get that stone rolled away?
She wants to anoint the body.
She's the one in charge of taking care of Jesus' proper burial by Jewish rights.
We're in John 20.
John 20.
Okay.
It's a separate little thing.
And she goes there, and she's told by a person there, she says, where, I think he's called
a gardener, isn't he?
Yeah, I think he's called a gardener, as I recall.
Where have they taken him?
Notice.
She's basically reacting like you would.
I came to anoint the body, and the body's gone.
Where have they taken him?
Now that would argue that she's just acting normally, and it's just like missing corpse.
Well, according to all the Gospels, who had charge of the burial?
Joseph of Arimathea and his associates, and they're in charge of the burial.
The women are going to be part of it, but they're not officially in charge.
So where have they taken them, meaning where did the burial party who carried him and put
him temporarily in this tomb near the cross?
So John is helpful because he says it's a place near the cross where they stashed the
body because Passover is so near.
You're going to eat the Seder that night, according to John.
See, he has a different chronology than seems that Mark does.
I don't think it's different, but in John, it's clearly different.
So if you're going to eat Passover that night, you can't even go into a Pilate's judgment
seat because you've already prepared for the Passover ritual, the ritual purity, gone
to the mikvah and so forth.
You cannot do a burial, and this is Jewish law.
So what do you have to do?
You have to wait till the festival's over, and there are two Sabbaths.
There's Friday, which is the Passover Sabbath, and then there's Saturday.
So Saturday night, the burial party probably came and took the body.
It's at their first available moment.
Mary comes early that morning, maybe 4 or 5 a.m.
They've already taken him.
That's a separate issue.
Keep that for a while because then we can talk about empty tomb later.
Then what happens?
She runs and tells Peter and the beloved apostle, who I think is James, by the way.
We'll get to that, maybe.
And they run, and they just camp like, what?
He's gone.
He's gone.
And then they go back and go, he's gone.
But then they find out that evening Jesus appears among them, very similar to Luke,
and manifests himself.
And then he appears a week later, and then John has an added thing where he appears in
the galley, which I'll mention in a minute.
But let's just stay with John 20.
So John 20, tomb is empty, and then he appears.
So it's pretty similar to Luke, but the part that interests me, or the first 10 verses,
if you read them without the rest, would just be a pretty accurate account of what you would
expect if somebody thinks a corpse is waiting to be anointed and they arrive and somebody's
already taken it.
She didn't go like, oh, he's raised, like he said.
I'm going to go to galley, and there's nothing like that.
No angel, no messenger.
Not even a messenger in the tomb, just whatever.
We put the body here the other day, sundown, and it's gone.
What happened?
Where have they taken him?
She's just trying to figure out, where is he now?
And then he appears.
Well, once he appears, then they touch his wounds, he eats later, and all these things
just like Luke.
So there you've got the corpse again, even if it's sort of semi-glorified.
But there is a statement in John, and I think John's already trying to harmonize, because
he then appears to Mary Magdalene, and he says, don't touch me.
I haven't yet ascended to heaven.
And there you kind of got the idea, like, yeah, I look like a resuscitated guy now, but don't
touch me.
He's almost saying, I'm already kind of ready to go experience the glory of the resurrection.
Maybe John's trying to get both in there, because clearly he thinks he's going to go
back to heaven, and he says that.
And then in John 21, they're up in the galley, and it's like they haven't even seen him.
I mean, it seems like a separate account.
A bunch of them are up there, and Peter's fishing, and they have the story about the
fish, and they worked all night and didn't catch any.
And then they look on their shore and go, it's Jesus, and then they eat fish with him
and so forth.
So that's remembering the galley experience that Mark and Matthew allude to, but it's
different.
It's on the lake.
So we've got really three different things here.
We've got, like, an apotheosis thing where he's just gone.
We've got an empty tomb.
Did he get reburied or whatever?
We've got appearances in Jerusalem, and then we've got appearances at the lake.
The Mark and Matthew thing put it up in the galley.
So it's hard to, I mean, you can always harmonize something if you work hard enough.
All of that happened, and we just need to figure out the sequence.
He seems partly physical.
He can manifest himself physically.
Don't angels appear physically and eat with people, but then they head off to the flame
of fire of a campfire, and wow, where did he go?
Maybe he's doing that kind of thing.
We call that epiphany.
But Paul, I think, would not say it's epiphany.
It's the metamorphosis.
He was transformed and into this new state.
And so what I think is important is bringing the gospel of Peter.
Now the gospel of Peter has a lot of really crazy, fantastic things.
Everybody would agree.
When Jesus comes out of the tomb, his head reaches the sky and all kinds of things.
But there's a part of the last part of the gospel of Peter, where it breaks off, unfortunately,
where Peter says, we wept after the death of Jesus.
We wept and cried, it either says seven or eight days.
I think he says eight days, seven days, eight days, I'm not sure.
We wept and cried for seven or eight days.
And then Peter says, I'm going fishing, and then it breaks off.
I think that's a little kernel of what really happened.
When Jesus died on Passover, there's still the seven days of Unleavened Bread.
You don't leave.
What do you do during that seven days?
You weep and cry, because you've lost the master, OK?
Then you go up to Galilee and they have some sort of experience up there of epiphany.
Unfortunately, it breaks off.
We don't get to see that.
But just that idea that we wept and cried for seven days.
And then Peter goes, I'm going back.
I'm going back fishing.
He still doesn't have faith, in other words.
So if all these appearances are taking place during that first week, why would he be weeping
and crying and then saying, I'm going fishing again?
He'd be like hanging with Jesus like Luke X.
So I know most people would say that are, you know, into harmonizing.
Well, we don't we don't need to fit gospel of Peter in.
That's some late legendary thing.
But I think that one verse is pretty telling because it would really fit the historical
situation that if I have to finally interpret this, like I'm telling you what I think the
gospel writers thought.
Now if you ask me or I ask myself, what do you think James might have most likely happened?
I would think that that there was some recovery of faith through extraordinary visionary experiences
in the Galilee.
And some believed it and some didn't.
And if you put all the stories together, that's kind of what you get.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
It was maybe even on the Sea of Galilee that makes a lot of sense to me.
Interesting.
Yeah.
And the legend just grew from there.
The problem is always remember, these are literary accounts written decades later.
So what when we read a Mark, a Matthew, a Luke and a John and a John has two chapters really
20 and 21 are different.
You're reading what that writer at that time is trying to do with the tradition.
It's not like somebody's orchestrating a sequential laying out of the story.
It's like Mark is trying to tell you his audience.
Here's what happened.
And I think that's the earliest and it fits Paul perfectly.
That's a thing Mark's very Pauline influenced.
There's no appearances.
There's no physical appearances.
So how could Mark put the physical appearance, how could he leave them out?
He would want to have them in there because he didn't believe in that kind of resurrection.
He believed in the glorious experience of transformation.
Mark and Paul are like this.
That's the...
Theologically, they're so close.
That's actually Dr. Steve Mason said this and maybe I can get your remark before we
end this video here real quick and just a simple comment on this even if you can, if
you don't mind.
Mark ends the actual Mark letter we have, the book, if I could use that.
It's not a letter.
Mark ends with the women were afraid and they told no one.
And it's...
Versa.
168.
Yeah.
These knucklehead apostles, they can't get it.
They just don't get it.
From what I understand, Dr. Mason thinks that Mark is riding with Paul.
We talked about this fraction that happened earlier and Paul had to deal with a heartache
of his audience now hearing from these other guys.
And if you're right about that fraction and Bowers correct and there's a real thing here,
is it possible to you and your expertise on this that Mark is actually making the apostles
look this way?
As a polemic, as a saying, look, you need to have the flesh and blood will not reveal
this to you.
My father in heaven, it will be a visionary.
Paul's the guy.
Yeah.
A couple of times in the book, as you know, and it's really in second Corinthians where
you get the phrase, we no longer know Jesus kata sarks according to the flesh, even though
if we might have once known him that way.
So what he's saying is, and I don't know that Mark's absolutely making it up, but Mark
is brutal.
I learned my mark from Norman Perrin, Mr. Mark.
I mean, he's the ultimate Mark.
He's trained a generation of scholars.
That's all he ever taught.
I took three courses from him, one of them in Greek, and he was just wonderful.
And people know his books in my field.
They respect him so much.
And he would say, no, Mark is the gospel.
What is the gospel?
It's not the glory.
It's not celebrating the resurrection.
Yeah, he's raised, death is...
No, it's the crucifixion.
The suffering comes first and then the glory.
So we're not even going to talk about the glory.
You'll see him in the Galilee, as he said, but we're going to go around talking about
corpses appearing.
Well, Mark's not even at that stage, I don't think, where they're creating that apologetic
polemic.
That would be more Luke with the ghost thing.
But yeah, Mark, do you realize the apostles never get anything right in the entire book
of Mark?
It's shocking.
The women flee from the tomb in trembling in fear and say nothing to anyone.
And his parent used to say, so what is the last view of Jesus?
The last view of Jesus in Mark, and Luke takes it out, he's so shocked by it.
My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?
And he bows his head and dies.
That's the last.
And then the soldier says, truly, this is the Son of God.
A dead Messiah crucified, taking up the cross is the Messiah.
If that's not your Messiah, if you're falling for the glory, the hallelujah, the rewards,
the celebrations, we're all going to heaven, forget it.
If anyone would come after me three times, he says, the least has to be greatest.
I mean, this was parents' whole thing.
What is the gospel?
Paul's the same.
Think of all the times in Paul's letters.
Don't get the glory.
Don't get the glory before the suffering.
What does he say in Romans 8?
It's the most glorious chapter in all of Paul's Romans 8, cosmic glory.
If we suffer with him, he says, we will be glorified if we suffer.
And he loved talking about how much he suffered.
He got to have the cross first.
I bear in my body the marks of the Lord Jesus, and we'll get on that too, because I think
he's kind of a second Christ, so to speak.
Ooh, you know what?
You're not alone.
Dr. Price, Robert Price thinks that Paul visions himself somewhat of a Christ.
In the sense of anointed to do something else, we'll talk about Paul's mission.
Paul has a mission and a message.
In the final statement, just to get your point, do you think Mark is doing that?
What Steve Mason says is they've got the disciples all, or the apostles, they're all wrong, but
don't worry, you're going to see this Paul, you know, he got it right.
I certainly would be sympathetic to that view.
I don't know if Mark created the failure and they really didn't fail, or maybe they really
failed.
This is like the wandering wilderness mimesis from the Old Testament, with Moses kind of.
But, or maybe they did really fail, but I think Paul is concerned that they're going
around preaching and say, Peter travels with his wife, he says, and, you know, the brothers
of the Lord travel, and they take money, and he's kind of hinting like they're not, you
know, I was stoned three times, I was whipped, I was beaten, I was left for dead.
That's also in 1st, 2nd Corinthians, where he does about the break.
He's just talking about, I'm not going to glory in, I'm just going to glory in my sufferings,
and then he names all these things as catalog of suffering.
And I think it could be that he thinks, you know, I don't want to make too much a riff,
like he hates some or anything like that, but like, I know James dies a horrible death
at the end, I'm not going to play that down, but are they living a somewhat, you know, different
life in Jerusalem?
I know there's acts as early persecutions, but then you get the idea, acts 15, they're
all meeting together, and so, you know, what Steve is saying, Steve Mason, I think that's
possible, but I do think Mark and Paul are just like this, theologically.
Yeah.
Now, everybody didn't agree with that, but boy, I could defend it, believe me.
Perrin taught me how.
And for Boltmonians, as Perrin was, that is the gospel.
Nothing else is the gospel.
You're worried about a corpse, you worry about any, you know, the gospel is that greatness
comes from suffering, exaltation comes from service, and the least will be greatest, and
until you get that, you've missed everything.
I mean, that's the message.
Thank you.
