Ladies and gentlemen, Christian apologists capitalize often on trying to argue the Gospels
are historical. Dennis McDonald's work in Mimesis criticism is showing that the author of Mark,
specifically Mark, is lifting material from not only the Hebrew Bible, the Septuagint,
but from the Greek epics, either the Odyssey, the Iliad, in this discussion of the synoptic
problem and the fourth Gospel, John. The question is, did John use the synoptics in writing their
Gospel? Some Christians will argue no, and many times you'll find it's Christian apologists who
would deny these things. But does the Mimesis criticism in Dennis R. McDonald's work help us
to see the Homeric that is built into Mark in the fourth Gospel? And does this show that the
author of John is dependent, using his Mimesis on earlier Gospels, to write his story the way he
wants to about Jesus? Dr. Dennis R. McDonald, if I may, what are some of the connections between
the Johanine Gospel, Johanine, John's fourth Gospel? And in what ways does your work in Mimesis
criticism show some connections to the synoptics when it comes to this whole discussion?
Well, that's a great question, Derek. And it requires a little more background.
Many people have thought that you can use John either as the earliest of the Gospels or as an
independent verification of the truthfulness of the synoptic narratives, because you have lots of
overlapping stories between the two, or that they use a common source as an alternative to the Q
hypothesis, that some people have argued that John and Mark have overlapping content because of a
common source. But if one grants that the Gospel of Mark imitates the Homeric epics, that whole
argument falls apart. The Gospel of John, in its earliest manifestation and perhaps in its last,
knows the synoptic Gospels, because the same Homeric imitations appear in the Gospel of John.
This is most obvious, probably, in the Passion narrative and all of the events that lead up to
it. But we also have the Johanine version of the Triumphal Entry. We have the
Stilling of the Storm and the Feeding of the Five Thousand, and other
miracle stories that have Homeric backgrounds to them. So John knows the synoptics. And another
reason for suggesting it comes from Papias. Papias quotes John the Elder, who seems to have been
the author of the Johanine epistles. And at several points, John is evoking Gospel texts that seem
to reflect Matthew. So throughout the Johanine tradition, apparently these synoptic Gospels
were available, and only later did you have a composition of the Gospel of John. Now one of
the peculiarities is that all of these parallels, all of them, to the Gospel of Mark appear in the
Dainesean Gospel, one might say, passages where Jesus is depicted much like Dionysus. And scholars
have known for a long time that the Gospel of John is the result of a compositional stratigraphy.
That is, there are various levels of composition. And for your viewers, I'd like to talk about
my view of the Gospel of John as an excavation going from the most recent version, the canonical
version of the Gospel, then mooring down to the next level, and finally to the bottom level.
I view the Gospel of John like an Indian Pueblo, where you have one building that sits on another
building that sits on another building, and archaeologists have to deal with this building
before they can deal with this building, before they deal with this building. The final version
of the Gospel of John clearly has something to do with the epilogue in chapter 21. There are lots
of reasons for it. One is the quite clear double doxology or postscript in the two, chapter 20
ends like it should be the end of a book, and then you have another chapter and another postscript.
Also, in the epilogue, it's clear that the beloved disciple is the hero, and he has died,
and it's caused something of a crisis for the community, and that the community recognizes
the leadership of Peter, so that Peter is the one who is going to guide Jesus' flock.
Every reference to the beloved disciple in the fourth Gospel apparently comes out of this last
redaction, and this has been shown by Martin Hangle and others that you have this, what I call,
the beloved disciple gospel, and it may have been created in order to draw a bridge between the Gospel
of John and 1 John, because 1 John begins, that which we have seen and heard and touched, we deliver
on to you, his congregation, and even in antiquity people saw that to be a reference to the Gospel,
what we have seen and touched and so on. There's a segue between 1 John and 2 John, 2 John and
3 John, and 3 John ends with, I have more things to say to you, and then we have the apocalypse of
John, in which you have a John who writes to the seven churches, he's in exile, and he fulfills the
promise of the end of 3 John that he has more things to write to him, and so you have this,
what's called a Johannine corpus that begins with the Gospel, goes to epistles, and then ends with
an apocalypse. Does that sound like the organization of the New Testament? The New Testament begins
with Gospels, goes to epistles, and ends with the apocalypse of John. But quite apart from that,
we find another layer that is viciously hostile against Jews. There are three indications that
the Johannine Christians have been excommunicated from the synagogues, and they are very bitter about
it. And this level is where we find the most hostile treatments of Jews. You are your father,
the devil, he was a liar from the beginning, and this polemic before Abraham was, I am, Jesus is
the new Moses, most of the biblical passages come out of this layer of, but there's nothing in it
that's Dionysian. And then we get this other layer that has most of the parallels to the
synoptic Gospels, but it also has the changing of water into wine, the episode of Jesus in the
Samaritan woman, and he offers her living water, the Eucharist is being Jesus as blood and flesh,
and also the famous prologue, where it's similar to the prologue of Euripides bakai and so on.
In my view, the Dionysian Gospel was a supplement to the synoptic Gospels to make Jesus a donor
deity like Dionysus, whereas Jesus says, carry your cross, sell your goods, and follow me,
and lay up treasures in heaven. The fourth Gospel in its earliest version makes Jesus like Dionysus,
who offers eternal life, who offers wine at a wedding, to people who are drunk. Jesus is a
party animal in the Gospel of John in a way that he's not in the synoptics. But in that,
now I'm, so this is the excavation, but now I'm going to rebuild the history of the tradition.
In that earlier stratum, which is a kind of supplement to the Gospel, the synoptic Gospels,
there's no criticism of the Jews as a whole. In fact, but it's written for Gentiles,
but the Jews are not demonized. In this next level, we find lots of parallels to the Jehanin
epistles. It's clear that these authors are trying to evoke the elder's teachings,
but it becomes hostile against the Jews. It's no longer the chief priest. It's no longer the
Pharisees. It's no longer religious leaders. It's the Jews as a whole. And the final edition comes
along and it's ironic. It's trying to make nice. There's no anti-Jewish polemic, even though it
inherited all of this anti-Jewish stuff. It accepts that there's a Petrine Church.
And the final verse basically admits multiple Gospels. I guess the whole heavens would have
to be a manuscript to be, in other words, to hold all the things that could be written.
But this is what the beloved disciple said, and it's the one that we're basically going to privilege.
Now scholars have, in the past, teased out these various strands by using literary methods,
vocabulary and the style and so on. But they've not used mimesis criticism to show
that it's the earlier stage and the earliest stage and only that stage that has imitations
of the Bacchai. It's only in this middle stage that we get heavy imitations of the Johnian Epistles.
But also, I am a firm believer in social identity theory and I think I have a methodology for the
examination of texts that's called social identity criticism. And it's, Derek, it's a very simple
methodology and it can be applied to modern societies, ancient societies, it can be applied
to texts. And it just goes like this. All of us live in social in-groups. We can be a religious
in-group, it could be an ethnic in-group, it could be a national in-group. And the way in-groups
craft their identity is a two-fold. One, to identify the ideal leader, sometimes called the
prototypical leader. So who is it that best embodies the in-group's ideology? One can think of
certain Republicans in the United States that would do that for Donald Trump. There are Democrats,
like myself, who might do it for Barack Obama. But we have an identity that identifies the values
of the in-group with a leader that we venerate. But even more important than the prototypical leader
is the stereotypical out-group. Who are the enemies? And most in-groups have multiple out-groups.
And so you demonize or stereotype the out-group and in doing so you reinforce the values of the
in-group. Now if you look at ancient texts you can see that the leader of the group
differs from book to book to book and sometimes inside of a book. Is Jesus a teacher? You see the
Messiah? Is he the Lord of the universe or whatever? So you have these changes.
I was going to say the identity, what you're saying, even Jesus is not even the same per Gospel,
like we talked about last night. And sometimes you can see inside the same Gospel different
Jesuses. So Jesus in the fourth Gospel is different in the Dionysian Gospel from the things that are
added by the second, in other words, he's the Dionysian character. In the second one he's the
polemicist against Jews and establishes these rigid boundaries between Jews and his followers.
And in the last one he's the Mr. Nice Guy that is handing on his authority to the beloved
disciple and to Peter and so on. But you have multiple out-groups. So you can talk about
the United States as an in-group that often identifies its president as its stereotypical
leader or other politicians or cultural characters. But its out-groups could be, depending on your
group, communism or Afghanistan or Cesar Chavez or whatever. And by establishing these stereotypical
out-groups you ungenerously identify what your values are. So kind of having a little bit of
a reversal there you can find out what the in-group of the literature is based on who their enemies are.
That's right. You can think of it as looking in a mirror and you get the mirror image of yourself
because the person you're looking at in the mirror is the reverse of yourself.
So that you get your reflection by seeing the reverse reflection in the mirror.
Now with the Dainesean gospel, the first gospel, the bad guys are Pharisees and chief priests
but not Jews as a whole. And even the Samaritans are not bad guys.
He moved to the next one. It's the the Jews who are demonized and stereotyped as children of the
devil. And so that tells you something about the in-group and their leader. And the last one...
And it may give you dating too, but go ahead.
Yeah, that's right. And in the last one you don't have any clarified out-group members except if
it's a part of a corpus. You could say Rome becomes the bad guy because of the apocalypse
of John and you know fearful of the empire and so on.
So most of the stratification of the gospel of John has been done on literary grounds.
But I think you can do it on social identity grounds for this reason.
And you can do it in terms of mimesis. What texts are important to imitate at each stage?
And you can do it also in the synoptic gospels. The enemies in the gospel of Luke are different
from the enemies in Matthew, for example. And you can see this in the Acts of the Apostles
who the bad people are. And so I'm just getting sunlight, right?
But anyway, this gives you... So I'll end it here. The gospel of John probably has three strands
and they're identified in terms of literary features, social identity and mimesis, what they're
imitating. And you can't say that the synoptic... that the gospel of John is independent of the
synoptics because they imitate... the authors imitate passages in Mark especially that already
have imitated Homer. So you have Homeric radiation going from the epics to Mark to the Johannine
Gospel. And these are not independent traditions. So that's the story. Thank you, Dr. McDonnell.
