Dr. Richard Carrier, I spent about 20 to 21 hours listening to your
audiobook the other day and I have some questions. One that came to my attention,
what was Jeremiah's prediction that failed? What did Daniel do to try and fix it but failed?
What did Christianity do to try and fix Daniel? And although they had more success, they still
failed. Yeah, I have a section on that. It's element seven in On the Historicity of Jesus,
which is in chapter four, where I go into, I mean, the element headline is the pre-Christian
book of Daniel was a key messianic text laying out what would happen and when, partly inspiring
much of the very messianic fervor of the age. So there's a lot of messiahs, a lot of messianic
claimants around this time based on the book of Daniel. Even Josephus mentioned that this was
like even inspired the Jewish war. There's a lot of people looking in Daniel and thinking that it
was predicting the end of the world at this time or this century, basically. They had different dates,
different calendars, different calculations from Daniel. Everybody's doing this, even the Dead Sea
Squall Sect were using Daniel to try and use the math in Daniel to predict when the end of the world
would come, right? So, and I have a whole speech on this. I know I've mentioned this in another video,
but you're all going to die how the Jews kept failing to predict the end of the world and
accidentally caused Christianity and that talk. And that's actually, I make a case for historicity.
I actually may have a particularly historicity of Jesus' model that I should argue for in there.
So if you want to see me giving a case for historicity, that's one to do. It's also funny,
there's lots of jokes in it, but it is an actual accurate history of what happened
about apocalypticism. It's basically about why, where did this idea about the end of the world,
the disastrous, horrible end of the world come from? And why is it so, why is it driving the
production of all of these religions and sects and wars and so on? In the speech, I begin,
I go all the way back to the flood. I start with the first apocalypse, right? That's the,
people forget that there already is an apocalypse in the Bible and that's the flood,
like a total destruction of humanity and only just one family survives, right? So that's pretty
apocalyptic. And in that, God's, God's so, you know, aggrieved by it all that he swears he will
never kill, he'll never wipe out humanity with water again, which is a clue, the fact that
next time it'll be fire, which is why everything is now fire. And you get to like Jeremiah and all
these, God's going to burn and the ashes, we're going to stop the skulls of our enemies. There'll
be ash and skulls because of the fire of God. So it's very, this apocalyptic stuff evolves from
that notion, but it also comes from Zoroastrianism, right? So this is the apocalyptic thinking of the
Jews, of the Israelites in particular, starts to rise after they're influenced by the Persians that
have controlled their, they were basically the conquerors of that region and Judea was under
the sway of Persia. So they got a lot, and a lot of exile Jews were in Persia at the time
and under Persian say trepis within the Persia. So they acquired this idea of apocalypse, which
comes from Zoroastrianism. The general apocalypse where fire is going to burn away the world and
everybody's going to rise from the dead, who's deserves it or whatever. So that's the Zoroastrian
apocalypse. So these things merge. Even the Jewish idea of the flood, reverse it into fire, merge it
with Zoroastrianism, we've got apocalypticism and you get this in Jeremiah. And Jeremiah is trying
to predict when this is going to happen. So Jeremiah is dealing with the fact that Israel's,
the Jerusalem's been defeated and crushed and the Jews have been sold into slavery or, you know,
put into exile or whatever. And he's trying to, when is this going to end? Like when will our
punishment end? When is, and he's, you know, God comes to him and says, oh, it'll be 70 years,
70 years and everything will be fine, whatever. And it turns out the timeline doesn't match his,
right? So the truth did not match his 70 year prediction. And so the, so Jeremiah's prophecy
failed quite plainly. So now Daniel nine, this is the thing, Daniel nine is Daniel and is,
is in tears and in prayer, like, why did Jeremiah's prophecy fail? And he's like praying to God to
explain like, why, why, why? And, and then Gabriel comes down and says, okay, I'm, I've been sent,
like, if your pleadings have led God to send me down to explain this to you. And this is,
it's not 70 years. It's, it's 70 weeks of years. So 70 times seven, right? And then, and then he
goes into this complex timetable and then you take X number of years and then another X number of
years and then you do, you do this some math. And, and if you do the math in a way that's intended
originally the original authors, the original authors wanted to get this to be, to line up to
with about 171 BC, they wanted that to be the apocalypse. So because, and they want, they talk
about a dying Messiah, the anointed, the Christ, you know, in the Septuagint text will be killed
basically. And then the end, and then these some other things will happen really quickly. And then
the end will come. And then that's the promised end. And this is what Jeremiah was talking about.
He was really talking about this many, many years later, not 70 years later. And when the authors
originally wrote this, and I have an article on my blog on Daniel, dating Daniel, and how we know
Daniel is a forgery. In that article, I go into everything I'm really briefly summarizing here.
And I go into the numbers in the scholarship and how we know all this. But the original authors
of Daniel are representing the book as being written 700, 600 BC, right? But of course,
they're writing in the 170s. And there, the Onias III, who is this figure, who's a priest,
who basically what was considered, who was considered the rightful priest of the High
Temple, he was he was deposed by, you know, unaccepted authority or whatever. And so he was
regarded as kind of this messanic figure, like he was so holy, and so righteous people revered him.
And he was killed. He was assassinated. And so that was a great outrage. And so he's the holy one
whose death is going to trigger the end of the world. And so they published this book to try and
really push the rebellion against the Greek rulers that has caused all of this. And so they're
saying that, you know, Nias, the Messiah has been cut off. And this is exactly what Jeremiah predicted,
right down to the exact timetable that's happening now, the end of the world come fight.
And so it's really a proper war propaganda, right? It's designed to get people to go out
and fight this rebellion. And but the thing is, is just like Jeremiah says, oh, everything's going
to be honky dory in 70 years. The Daniel thing, it says, well, everything's going to be honky
dory within a few years. And then they do win, right? The rebellion succeeds. This is the, you
know, the Maccabees and revolt and everything. So they do succeed. But the world doesn't end.
The paradise doesn't come. So things are still up, even though it's under Jewish rule now.
So, well, that prophecy failed, right? So the Daniels prophecy, Daniel was trying to fix
Jeremiah, Jeremiah failed, Daniel tried to fix it, Daniel failed, that prophecy failed. So by the
time we get to the Dead Sea Scrolls and the writers of those, they're struggling to re explain,
they're doing the same thing to Daniel that Daniel was doing to Jeremiah, they're trying to say,
like, well, it failed, that can't be. So we must have a timetable wrong, what's the math wrong?
So they're doing the math differently, they're using the numbers, looking at what Gabriel told
Jeremiah and assuming there's must be some other way to do the math. And there's a more obvious way
to do it that gets you right around the time that they're doing conveniently, right? And what days,
what times, so by dense depends on the math you do, and it depends on what calendar you use,
and then what anchor dates you use. And so there's so many different ways that you're creatively
and re interpreting the text. But the range of dates comes from mid first century BC to about
mid first century AD. So that that century is the hotspot in Jewish messianism, because that's
when everybody's math is coming up with some date for the end of the world. And so everybody wants
to be the Messiah now. So there's this messiah fever is really just just basically burning up
Judea. And of course, it actually does lead to the Jewish war, like, you know, leads to catastrophic
consequences. But that is, that's what's going on. So when Christianity arises, it rises right in the
nexus, the whirlwind of this time. And there is a calculation, Julius Africanus shows one of these
interpretations you can give is pretty straightforward, that gets you to the 30s AD, I guess you would
date the 30s AD, depending on your calendar and stuff. So the Christians, I think really did do
this, they did this math, this 30s AD, gotta be happening now, right? So they're expecting
this to happen now. So that's why they're like primed to have this revelation, confirming that
it has happened, that the end is nigh, it's anytime now, or it's begun even is the way they're
preaching it. So that's how Christianity actually accidentally gets caused by a failed prophecy
in Daniel, which was caused by a failed prophecy in Jeremiah. So I don't know if that answers the
rest of your question, but it does. But I want to probe a little deeper. Using the mythosist model,
would this also fit a perfect, we're going to put this guy here idea with the mythosism,
because it fits their model of calculation to say this is the end. Yes, of course. And I mentioned
that as a possibility. And in chapter eight on the history of Jesus, I start with the Talmudic
Jesus, the Jesus of Nazareth and the Talmud. Alexander Jenaius. Correct. He's dated to the
time of the Greek, or not the, to the Maccabean era. So the Jenaius line. So in 70s BC is when
Jesus is depicted as living and dying. And he's, obviously there's no Romans there now. So he's
executed by Jews through stoning and hanging. And so it's placed at a different point in history.
But there is a way to do the Danielic calculation to get that too. But the more obvious one gets
into the thirties. I think the reason that the Christians in the West, the Christianity that
grew up and expanded from the Roman Empire, as opposed to outside the Roman Empire, because the
Talmudic Christianity is Babylonian Christianity is outside. This is in the Parthian Empire. It's
not the Roman Empire. So different things mean different things. A Pontius Pilate execution
wouldn't mean anything politically or socially. So it wouldn't be a salient myth to build
in outside the Roman Empire. It makes more sense inside the Roman Empire because then it's contextual.
You've got the involvement of the powers that be in it. It's salient to that period,
to people who are under that regime. So I think that's why they picked it. I picked that one
because that particular date they can put under Pontius Pilate and they could put under the
right of the key moment, especially because it's 40 years before the war. Later Christians then
saw that particularly relevant. But already in Paul, he's already assuming, if you assume Paul's
writing in the fifties, which there's some evidence he is, he's already assuming it started in the
thirties. So something started in the thirties before they even knew the Jewish war was coming.
So I think it was this Danielic map timetable. They were doing something similar to Julius
Africanus and various other messiahs were picking different decades in that one. This cult just
happened to pick that one. And that's how it started. It started then and inspired the religion.
And then Paul comes along 20 years later and then 20 years later, Mark is writing his thing. And so
I think Mark is particularly interested in the pilot narrative because that ties it into the
Roman Empire. There's no reference in Paul to the Romans even being involved in the execute. In
fact, there's several references in Paul that suggest that if he thought anyone killed Jesus,
it would have been the Jews, especially if you think First Thessalonians two is not interpolated,
then it's plainly the Jews. And I think generally that's the Paul is working with
a Jewish execution of Jesus, if he was, if a historicity was true. And that works too. So
that could be the thing in both ways. It can be the way Jesus himself could have been selling
himself as this messiah. Danielic timetable says, it's now it must be me. Same way I think a bunch
of other guys were doing or Jesus gets himself killed. And then they do the timetable math and
wait a minute, the timetable says now our guide died. Now it must here's the messiah who slain
and Daniel nine, it's all happening. So you there's many ways you can get this to explain
historicity to the historicity fits with this as well. So it doesn't the this this fact does not
support historicity or mythicism any more than the other. It's it's sort of a neutral fact.
But it is a fact necessary for understanding either historicity or mythicism. It's interesting.
And I just think it's funny that even the Christian idea of it felled, you know,
that the yes. And that's right. You said the last part is then they predicted the end is coming
that when I and then you know, 20 years later, Paul says, well, okay, it's anytime now. Now Jewish
war still hasn't come. So now Paul's going, okay, it'll be when the last one dies, the last person
from that generation dies, that's when it will be. And then you know, you get to John as well.
It's when I was whenever I want. It could be my will. So yeah, so and then it keeps failing.
And then many sects of Christianity have been founded by trying to fix the failed prediction
of the end of the world. You can go through many sectarian examples throughout history.
