We are MythVision. Welcome back to MythVision podcast. Karen Della Carrier is joining us
again today. She went to the top and she still hasn't stopped. You like I rhymed it? Anyway,
you guys do not want to miss this story. I'm telling you, Karen has, she called me and said,
look, I've got a few things you absolutely must hear about the Church of Scientology. And you
know, I want to expose the cults for the dirt that they carry. I want to show people why these
are harmful, why you don't want to become a Scientologist or go into these superstitious,
strange, weird cults that want to control your life and milk your money. So Karen, you knew everyone,
you knew everything. And that's not an exaggeration, meaning you just, you had your hands there,
your eyes were on it, you were on the boat there with Elron Hubbard. I always point this out.
And you're going to tell us some crazy story again today. Please educate us.
This is the story of how Scientology likes to use the government to do dirty work.
It wants to use the government to arrest you. Although they fend the flames and
lie, manufacture, whatever, etc. I told you in an earlier video, if you didn't see,
they were trying to set me up for child trafficking, sex trafficking. They wanted me
frassed and agitated with the FBI coming to my door to, of course, the FBI. As soon as they
heard it's the cult of Scientology, they knew their shamanic. So that was, but this is a story
of a guy called John Nelson. John Nelson quickly rose up the ranks. He was
a young guy, very smart, very reliable, very honest. And he rose up and was posted
in a very high position called commanding officer CMO Int. Int is short for international
simply means the hierarchy of the base, the, the group that manage all of Scientology
internationally. So they were at the pinnacle and he fled. He couldn't stand it and he blew.
That's the Scientology jargon for flu. Escaping is known as a blow. You blow out of there. Oh,
he blew. She's planning to blow. Blow means escape. I just want to put out as you continue
the story, just to say it isn't normal when an organization has a term like blow as like a thing,
like you guys, he blew too. Like if people are blowing, there's a problem. Just so you know.
That's not perfect. You know, the second in command, Marty Rathburn said that David was
scavenged every morning, every morning, asked two questions when he woke up from sleep. First thing,
every morning, who blew in the last 24 hours? That was a standard question. Who blew?
What's the latest flap? Those were the two questions. But you see, he expected
to be told of who blew in the last 24 hours. That was it. Blowing and leaving the group
is an expectation. Another surprise. I mean, can you imagine if a pope woke up
every Sunday morning and came before the bishops and the cardinals and stuff and said,
all right, which priest committed homosexual tendencies? You know what I mean? Which
priest messed with a child or something, which we know that's been an issue that's happened in
the Catholic Church. But I'm saying, I doubt the pope is going every Sunday morning saying,
all right. Tell me the latest of that. No. Every day, that tells you there's a problem,
a serious problem. People are trying to get out, but they don't know anything else. They have such
vested interest in it, too. They're so stuck in their entire lives. I mean, I see why people
feel like it's easier to keep going than it is to turn away. But if it's so bad that they can't
just keep going, oh my, how bad does it have to get? So anyway, I'm sorry, I just.
You have a policy that if you blow, you're automatically declared as a suppressive person,
which is they name you as a criminal, anti-social personality because you escaped,
just because you quit without authorization. And you know, boy, I think you interviewed Ron
Ryskiewicz, the father of Ryskiewicz. He had to plot for six months. He had to make it a military
precise strike operation to get out of there. It was six months of planning.
Like, it's not easy to blow their security guards. As soon as they hear you want to leave,
you're put in a further lockdown of a lockdown. You're imprisoned. You are completely, because now
they've lost trust that you're with the program. You're asking to leave. You're a borderline enemy.
You're a shade of asking to leave makes you enemy.
You can walk in and out, even spin-offs of Christianity, Presbyterian church and
Methodist. You can walk in and out. When you left your.
I could leave when I wanted to. Yes. Even though there were cult tendencies, but it was more
psychological and not, there wasn't more of a physical, it was more psychological.
Yes, I could walk out and I did not have the repercussion I had was eventually getting a
letter that I was excommunicated. I didn't have to worry about looking over my shoulder.
None of this stuff that you're talking about here and this guy, it seems like his honesty,
and I mean, I don't know him, but it seems like the way you describe this guy's honesty and his
being a virtuous man is probably what led him to blow to begin with. He probably saw the crap
that they're doing and finally said, I'm done. I can't, that's not who I am. I'm out and he runs.
What happens when he runs? Nice analysis. That was good what you said. I hope John Nelson
gets to view this sometime. One little piece of data, because we're educating viewers. We'd like
to educate you. One piece of data is that the culture Scientology evolved something called
blow drill. Blow drill means posses, gangs of Seahawk members go after pursuit to kidnap the
person, hold them back, put them in a van and drag them back in. That's an absolute standard thing
which went for 25 years. I don't know if they still do it now. It's called blow drill and the drill
is immediately someone's missing. Every single confessional, all their personnel files, their
ethics files, everything is searched to see where they could have gone. Have they been in touch with
their mother? Do they talk of friendship and family? They itemize every location and possible connection
that you would flee to. Most people do flee to family. So they've got all these, they look at
the addresses, they research and policies of people go after in pursuit acting like federal
marshals. They act like they have the authority to take you back into custody. They'll get it for
and many people would write, but the hilarious thing is
while these posses were allowed freedom to go kidnap someone back, some of them blew.
Oh my, no, no, this was their freedom. They were not being, because they were given fully
way to go kidnap this person back so while they were off to kidnap someone back, they also fled.
I love this, by the way. This is wonderful. This is the party day. Okay, so John Nelson,
he not only flees, he goes to a spin off group in Santa Barbara run by David Mayo,
the arch enemy of David was kept. Now was he somebody big up in the organization before and
then David takes power and he's out, but he's still practicing Scientology? Well, a different version
of Scientology without brutality, without the ethics, without the this and the that. Got it.
A gentle form. So yes, David Mayo was a hero of mine. He mentored me. He was just one of those
good guys, even though he was in, he was right. And so now
John Nelson is working for David Mayo, the arch enemy of David Mascallage. So a plot is brewed.
A plan is done. John Nelson wants to just destroy John Nelson, even worse than destroy.
This was a homicide hit. That first plot. Let me tell you how it was arranged. Okay.
A culture Scientology hire a law firm. It got lots of law firms, but it's the law firm that hires
a private investigator. The private investigator hires a dirty private investigator. And the dirty
private investigator can hire one of his buddies who is really, really dirty. So the culture Scientology
has levels of cutaway. They didn't do anything. All they did was hire a law firm. It's almost like
mafia gangsters that order a whack. They're sitting in Miami at dinner when the whack occurs. If the
FBI wants to see where will you want that homicide? They were sitting in a dinner of 12 people.
They have a perfect alibi. They were nowhere near. How did it go? The boss ordered his captain who
ordered the next guy in the next level. So they have their hands when nowhere near the target,
they simply ordered the whack. That's the way it works in the mafia. So Scientology,
John Nelson was doing business in the Far East. It was a little debate whether it was Hong Kong or
Singapore. I thought it was Singapore. In that country, if you're a heroin dealer, you are executed.
I want to send you a couple of pictures where at the airport it says, if you traffic an heroin,
you will be executed. Instead of saying, welcome to Singapore or welcome to our city,
they must have had so many dealers. You will be executed. They announced right there in big signs,
I'll send you a couple of pictures, right at the airport, you will be killed. If you've come in
here to sell drugs, you will be killed. So with all the cutaways, a private investigator was hired,
a dirty one, a really dirty one, who would plant pounds of heroin in John Nelson's hotel room.
And then, of course, the government would be kicked off, go look in his hotel room.
And then he would be executed by the Singapore government. Do you see how Scientology's hands
oh my they manipulated it. They formulated it. Oh, I can't help but have to ask, like,
how can he even get out of that? How could you possibly get out of that unless they knew it
wasn't him? I can't imagine him making it out of there alive, or at least getting off without
20, 30 years locked away at the very least. Oh my gosh.
My story is told in a book called Expert Witness, an anti-Scientology or Scientology book. And
there's a chapter in it describing this thing, this John Nelson hit to be executed by the local
government. Scientology has never challenged this book. Scientology never tried to get a
restraining order on the publication. This book is in publication called Expert Witness by Jesse
Prince. The story is covered there. I'm telling you, I'm telling it to you in a live version because
two dearest friends of mine who were on the Apollo with me, common old messengers,
saw the documents on this hit, live with their own eyes. From Scientology's organization,
they saw the hit. They saw the program and the orders and what I think they saw it after the fact,
but they saw the documents that this always dripped up within Scientology hierarchy.
Now, the dirty, dirty private investigator pulled out and aborted at the last moment.
He was willing to be dirty. He was willing to funnel money and maybe beat up someone
and break their legs in a dark parking lot. He was willing to do a few things, but he didn't want,
on his conscience, maybe the ghost of John Nelson followed because he killed, he didn't want,
he just didn't want to do a homicide because essentially it wasn't,
no question, and the government would have passed in Singapore. There's not this 20 years of appeals
and you know, the Supreme God and you know, a person on death row has 20 years of appeals
in the United States. Not like that in these countries. That sentence, go there, shot, boom,
you're dead. So the PI pulled out and aborted it and John Nelson, who never knew any of this was
going on, is alive to this day because the hit was aborted at the last moment and they didn't
then start it all over again trying to do away with him. But I'm telling you this story because
it shows how dark and how evil Scientology hierarchy is in its highest ranks. I don't think it compares
with some of these religious religions that you interview so well. Yeah, this is a different
level. This is a different level. So when Heath, when he aborted the mission, can you tell us what
happened? Like, how did that happen? Did he say, hey, look, I put this here. Did he confess and
did he tell the government like, look, don't do that. It was me that put it in. Like, what happened?
No, he didn't, he didn't, he didn't, he didn't plot the drugs.
Oh, how do we, how do we know about this? He aborted, he aborted. Aborted means he didn't
carry out his instructions to go plant the heroin because his conscience
made him feel, look, I'm willing to reckless and do a few things, but I'm not going to
cause the death of an innocent guy by planting heroin. So back at the last moment.
How do we know that? Like, if I'm going to be a skeptic, right? Just for a moment to try and
like prod back. Like, how do we know since he didn't do it, how do we know he was going to?
Like, did he say something or did someone know this and say something about it? Like,
how do we know this story, so to speak? Does that make sense? Well, I know the story because
as I just told you, two messengers who were with Howard and were right in
hyrax saw the story in real time in the cult documents because they were senior enough
to have availability to read all this. I don't think they, they're good people. They,
they wouldn't have read it while the operation was going forward. I don't think they would have
allowed a death to happen, but after it was pulled, they read the documents on this
in the church hierarchy and they were, and we discussed it back and forth.
Oh my gosh. How devious and how ill this could be. You know, many years ago in the late 1980s,
a girl in Portland, Oregon, won a $30,000 judgment against the cult. The cult just went ballistic
because she wasn't harmed. She said, well, the church had promised her all these things and she
didn't get the gain. Anyway, it was a $30,000 judgment. My husband, Hiba Gench, was sitting with
church hierarchy in a row. Now this was the top brass, say 708 of the absolute top brass of the
church. Elron Hubbard. I mean, like the top people, right? Yeah. No. Hubbard wasn't, Hubbard wasn't hiding.
Okay. But the top brass, everyone below Hubbard, about 708 people, and a guy called Mike Sutter
piped up and he said, if anyone wants me to get rid of her, speak up. I'm willing to do it.
And there was thin drop silence. I'm telling you this because you would think that people would
have said, what? Are you out of your head? We're a church. We don't go bumping off people. We don't,
we don't, we're not killers. Nobody said a word. Thin drop silence though Mike Sutter was
volunteering himself as an assassin. And nobody said a word.
Wow. Oh my. You know, you lift up the curtains. Yeah. I want to,
I really want to focus on the degree of evil. Yeah. I really want to, and also cover up of it
because it's covered. My boy, who is dead at 27 years old because of the cult,
at 12 years old was having full blown sexual intercourse with a 40 year old woman called Marie
Warren in Clearwater. Oh, you know what? That's another story. Oh my gosh. What happened when my
son, 12 years old, never reported to Clearwater PD. No. He was having sex at 12 years old.
As soon as I stepped out of the church, people wrote to me, Aaron, did you know that? No,
I mustn't get into a new story. Yeah. This is the story of John Nelson,
who worked for years, morning, noon and night, 60 hour weeks, 70 hour weeks, working for the cult.
And because he left the hierarchy of the church were organizing ahead.
Don't you see the cult as a kind of mafia religion? Wow. Who carries on like this? Talk to me, Derek.
Who carries on? No one. I don't know. I can't really think. I mean, maybe the initial, I would think,
initial Joseph Smith movement back in the 1830s. There are some people who say that it was mob-like.
He had some hitmen that were on his team. He had a death squad that would help kill people that he
opposed. We're talking about 1830s when people were in the Wild Wild West pulling guns on each other.
Here, we're in 20, you know, 2000s and this crap's going on in a church. It's like,
that's just crazy. Like no one's doing that today that I know of. I don't see that at least.
If there's something I'm missing, comment down below. Let us know. If you know of anything crazier
than this when it comes to cults, I really am interested in seeing your comments down below
and what you have to say. Please show support, like this video, share this content, let other
people know to stay away from Scientology. And for that matter, any cult, any cult. But,
Karen, you are full of stories. I cannot wait to get more of these for the audience. I'm serious.
There's some deep stuff that you've learned. You've found out that you've lived through.
And also, your current husband today. He is full of realizing there's some dirt going on in the
papers, the money, taxes, the whole nine. I really appreciate this. I seriously do.
Is there anything else you'd like to say? Well, I want to tell you, if you've come this far in
the video, you are our audience. Stay with the channel. Let's us participate together. Let's
grow together. Let's learn and educate ourselves. Because every decision you make going forward
in your life is based on the knowledge and data points you get as you move forward in time. So,
get the data. Get as much data as you can from this channel. Because it's not, I mean,
some things are worth taking. But above all, it's educational, gain a little bit of extra
knowledge you didn't have half an hour ago. Yeah. Please do. Thank you so much, Karen. You rock.
I want to talk about what's going on in court right now with the celebrities and all that stuff.
We've got stuff we can talk about for sure. Absolutely. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
Take care. Bye-bye.
