The reason I read the journal, I was interested in the God Dionysus, and particularly I was interested in theatre,
and the God Dionysus is the patron of theatre.
And he's the God of intoxication and wine.
What kind of rituals were involved in honoring him?
I mean, you could honor this deity in the drinking party, the symposium, drinking wine and so forth.
But there was another way in which he was honored, and that was...
That's described in the Euripides.
Tragedy at the Ba'ai, where women, just women, went out on the mountainside and became extremely arranged.
They did not have wine with them.
We don't know what they were doing except by metaphors.
They were, in contrary to God, in a form of extreme derangement.
And the metaphor, which probably describes what they were actually doing,
is that they were gathering magical plants.
We know the plants that they gathered, they are all vines and similar things,
that were seen as primitive versions.
We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
I'm bringing a legend, a living legend.
He has had almost an apathiosis in this life.
And that is Dr. Carl A.P. Ruck.
Welcome to MythVision, my friend.
Love to you all.
You have a pretty long resume.
You've had quite an experience in academia.
And so I'd like to have our audience at least get acquainted a little bit about who you are.
Down in the description, you can go and check out his links.
He has obviously a bu.edu classics website.
There's another one here that I found is just going into more detail, if you will.
He has a PhD at Harvard University in Classic Philology.
Hope I'm pronouncing that correct.
That is in 1965.
He is a master's at the University of Michigan, classical philology.
And 1959, and then, of course, 1955, bachelor's at Yale University,
pre-medical psychology and classical philology.
Also, all the books today, we might be talking about Apples of Apollo,
the Apples of Apollo, Pagan and Christian Mysteries of the Eucharist.
Hopefully we can get into that, but we're needing a little background.
Go get a couple of his books.
Is there any other way people could support you?
So by the time they're done with this episode, they're like, this guy's great.
I really want to find out more.
Well, actually, there's a bestseller book that just was released about a couple of years ago
by Brian Morresco, who had brought all my lifelong investigations to the forefront
in a journalistic approach.
And he's gone over my evidence and come up with new confirmation of it.
So most people would probably find that a good introduction to what I've been doing.
It's the immortality key by Brian Morresco.
Yeah, I know all about it.
I've actually listened to it on Audible, and I plan on doing an episode with Brian at some point.
But I figure I'd get the grandmaster here, the gentleman who's spent a long time.
But before we get into the Eucharist, I think it'll be important to talk about some of the struggle in academia that you've dealt with
from what I understand and correct me if I'm wrong.
Maybe you want to paint the picture for me.
I've heard that you had a lot of resistance when you started talking about the road to a lusus and these ideas,
just like, let's say, the sacred mushroom in the cross.
You know, like his entire career was completely...
John M. Allegro was like completely shunned and frowned upon in the academic community by many people.
But you found some of the things I suspect that he said valuable.
You may not have drawn all of his conclusions, but I don't know.
Can you tell us a little bit of background and what you found useful in this,
and what you've been kind of vindicated by scholarship as they've approached this subject deeper?
Yes, I really became ruined by reading the General Allegro's Sacred Mushroom in the Cross.
I read it because it was interesting and didn't realize it was going to get involved in so much controversy.
What I found most interesting was that he quoted many classical sources that dealt with mushrooms.
And in my training as a classicist, no one had ever mentioned that the Greeks knew about mushrooms,
or that the Romans knew about them.
And so I was intrigued by the fact that these were authentic citations from classical texts.
And I wondered whether there was more to it.
And as a classicist, I could investigate that.
And so I did write a couple of papers that were scholarly and published by peer-reviewed journals.
And in the course of working on the papers,
I became aware of the fact that Gordon Wasson had written Mushroom's Russia in History,
which is a book that I did not have access to.
It was published as a rare edition, expensive, only 500 copies.
And I didn't have access to one in the library.
And so I was unaware of the work that he had done.
His work probably was what got General Allegro involved in his studies.
I sent my two papers to Gordon.
And he almost immediately contacted me and said that he thought that we should meet.
We had a few meetings in Boston and discussed things, and very shortly,
he decided that we should write a book together.
So I became involved with Gordon Wasson through General Allegro.
And I didn't intend to get involved in the controversy about Christianity from the very beginning.
Good idea, you know, that was...
It was enough trouble just to bring up the subject of Mushrooms and Classical Antiquity,
which really wasn't that controversial, except that my work involved...
Mushrooms in the god Dionysus, the god of intoxication.
And by working on these topics, I argued that Greek wine was not what we have reconstructed it to be.
Everyone knows that the Greeks drank their wine diluted with water.
Red wine diluted with three or four parts water.
And anyone who's had a glass of red wine and think of putting four times the same amount of water together
would be a very insipid drink.
You would lose its taste, and it certainly wouldn't be very intoxicating.
And the going opinion of why they drank their wine in this insipid way
is that they didn't want to get drunk.
Who wouldn't want to get drunk?
I mean, that's...
You know, I hear people today, it's very rare, just making a funny modern analogy,
where they're like, I can't drink to get intoxicated, so I buy the non-alcoholic beer.
But it's very rare anyone even does that.
Typically, people drink because they want to fill the effects of the substance they're drinking.
Obviously.
Obviously.
But it turns out the Greeks drank to get drunk.
That's hard to figure out.
And we know how much diluted wine caused intense intoxication.
Three or four glasses of it was enough to get you on the edge of sobriety.
And if you had eight to ten, you were having drunken brawls.
And this was drunk over a period of time in a sequence of toasts.
And there's no way that diluted ethanol would cause that reaction.
And so what I discovered was that everyone knew, since it would be very insipid,
to drink the wine diluted that much.
They added things to so-called flavor it.
But the things they added to flavor it were intoxicants.
This makes a lot of sense.
People still do this stuff today at local clubs.
They know if they can intoxicate someone, they'll put them in the right kind of mood and things.
People who've taken modern substances, I've had my share of experience.
I don't know anymore, but I have in the past.
In light of this, if I made to try and paint like a picture in the timeline,
how early back do we have recorded evidence of, in a ritual sense,
are they using intoxicants?
Where can you find that as early in history and maybe you tell us where and when?
And then maybe give us a timeline as we're leading down toward Christianity.
I know you can't be exhaustive because you've written books on this and this is a lot.
But maybe you give us an idea back in ancient Egypt or back in ancient Sumer.
And then it works its way down the ingesting of God's tie into this.
What's going on or something?
What's happening?
Well, I can't say that it was wine that caused it.
But we traced it back to prehistoric rock paintings.
And I worked with a archaeologist and published around 20 years ago.
The first documented occurrence of probable psychoactive mushrooms depicted in a rock face painting.
It's not a cave, but it's a rock overhand.
In front of it is a space where probably a ritual was performed.
And what we have is a painting of a bull.
The rock face has a natural configuration and the painter has fantasized on the rock face
and let the bull come out of the rock face by painting it.
Which is the sort of thing that one often would do in order to induce a hussatory experience.
You look at a stucco wall and very intensely in the stucco starts to take form.
And you can have a hussinary experience merely by meditating looking at a surface like that.
And so out of the rock face a large well painted bull occurs.
And along the bottom of the area there are 13 dancing mushrooms.
At the time we thought that they were celosely mushrooms because of the stem.
But now I realize that is not definitive of what the artist is doing is showing that the mushrooms are dancing.
Which probably indicates that in front of this rock face some kind of ecstatic dancing was performed.
As far as the bull that is extraordinary because it may be one of the oldest metaphors for the mushroom.
In classical tradition we have the metaphor that when mushrooms sprout from the earth
they bellow like bulls.
And we're totally unaware of the fact that we thought a mushroom this is a zoomorphism.
It's the thing that moves.
This is really interesting.
Moving cows and bellowing bulls are mushrooms.
Okay this makes me wonder of like proto-Indo-European.
Maybe there's no way to prove this but they have really old myths of like a cow licking ice.
Exactly.
And we've simple mindedly and just believe that they like hamburgers or whatever.
Wow and you know if you flip a cow patty you might find something underneath it.
Yeah I've had those before too.
That is part of it too.
The celosely mushrooms do grow.
Right right okay so we have this going way way prehistory.
Do we find it in Sumer and what kind of substance do we see and then do we see it in Egypt
and do we find this going down into the different civilizations.
What kind of rituals they had and things like that that we can document.
It's probably the primordial religious experience.
It was the first inkling that the reality as you have ordinarily constructed it
is not the only way you can construct it.
That is said the first awareness of the fact that there might be spiritual presence.
So yeah I've had some experiences while hallucinating myself.
I've taken substances of course and I think a lot of people who are on the spiritual side sometimes
don't like to use the word hallucinate and I prefer it.
But either way you're seeing things you're experiencing things and I must admit
even people like the opening for Graham Hancock who wrote the opening for in particular to the immortality key
he's like look I'm an atheist but I go down and have a shaman experience like once or twice a year
and I hate to think like I have this open mind of my experience is just amazing and blow away
and I just thought it was really cool to hear someone like him say that
and that show that these are profound and deeply tied in with the human experience in life that we have.
So anyway.
One can be a thorough atheist and still understand the nature of this experience.
I mean when you say that when I say that you're you can come in with certain spirits or gods
that doesn't mean to say that that is really what you're encountering.
What you are aware of is simply that the physical entities that you have saw a constitutive reality
are not the only way of constructing what your perceptions are.
Kind of like I did an example the other day and I asked somebody can you imagine an elephant in your head.
Yes.
Is that elephant real.
Well in my imagination in my okay yeah that's an alternative experience that you can dive into.
The only difference is is I'm just telling you to imagine it there's a whole realm of an experience that you can go into with that
and these help us enter into those types of things throughout history but we're doing it in a ritualistic way.
From what I was told and I correct my logic here if I'm mistaken I was told that in the Osiris cult
that they would eat the bread or the flesh of the God and drink the beer instead of wine.
It was beer and this was the blood or the life giving blood of Osiris.
How far back does this tradition go and correct me if I got any of those substances messed up or incorrect.
The Egyptian material is another example of the same metaphor.
I've written a book with a couple of other scholars on Egyptian material called the beer of dreams
and there is a special red beer which is involved with the goddess Hathor as a cow
and it was a ceremonial highly intoxicating so-called beer that was red because it had the blood of primordial people in it.
It was a spiked beer problem with mushrooms.
There's so much here okay we're fast-forwarding as we go of course.
So now we're going to get we're skipping quite some time we're getting down into the Greco-Roman period.
Hellenism is beginning to pop on the scene Christianity is not here yet.
Are there any what mystery cults what period we're practicing the ingestion of deities and we're ingesting hallucinogenics in their substances in a ritual format.
The reason I read John Allegro's book is that I was interested in the god Dionysus and particularly I was interested in theater and the god Dionysus is the patron of theater.
And he's the god of intoxication and wine and we have a literary account of what kind of rituals were involved in honoring him.
I mean you could you could honor this deity in the drinking party this imposing drinking wine and so forth.
But there was another way in which it was honored and that was that's that's described in your refugees tragedy the Bacchai where women just women went out on the mountainside and became extremely deranged.
They did not have wine with them.
They we don't know what they were doing except by metaphors but they were encountering the God in a form extreme derangement.
And the metaphor which probably describes what they were actually doing was that they were gathering magical plants.
And we know we know the plants that they gathered.
They are all vines and similar things but that were seen as the primitive version of the grapevine.
But unlike the grapevine which is edible, grape leaves are edible, grapes are edible.
You have to manufacture an intoxicant from the juice of the grape.
But these wild vines, the leaves and the berries were intoxicating in their natural state.
And so they were encountering the primordial primordial version of the deity that then evolved into the drinking party wine.
And amongst the things that they were gathering were mushrooms.
Why mushrooms? Because it's connected with the God Dionysus.
Wine is the product of the growth of a fungus, yeast, and it is cultivated intoxicant.
And the opposite of cultivated intoxicant would be the primordial version.
And just as the wild vines are the avatars of the grapevine, the primitive form of the yeast fermentation is the wild mushroom.
So there's every reason why in honoring the God you honor not only his evolved civilized emancipation but his primordial form.
And the women were honoring that aspect of the God.
Have you ever read Dr. Dennis R. McDonald's works?
I haven't, no.
Oh, I think you would cherish his literature. He has a book.
This one right here.
And it's called The Dionysian Gospel.
Oh, yes.
And it's about the fourth Gospel of John and how he believes that there's strata.
There's multiple strata to the development.
There's been like redaction or editors that have edited John.
But in it he shows over and over connections with John and Euripides the Bacchai in a literary imitation form that there's a connection between the two.
But he goes even further too.
He also connects this to ancient Greek literature, you know, Homer, the Iliades the Odyssey, all of this fun stuff.
But in particular, he shows commonalities between the figure of Jesus in this Gospel and, of course, Dionysus.
So, you know, you're well aware the miracle of turning water into wine, all of these things.
I am the true vine.
These are clear imitations that would give you a visual.
Yes.
I think you'd really love this work.
The Dionysus myth is so close to Christianity that the ending of our text of Euripides Bacchai is mutilated in the manuscript.
But it's been restored because in the visiting period a writer lifted lines from Greek tragedy in order to tell the story of Jesus,
of the suffering Christ, the Christos patiens.
And he lifted lines from Euripides Bacchai, which scholars have identified as originally coming from the Bacchai.
And they then restored Euripides texts.
Ooh, this is interesting.
Okay, let's take in light of these ritual acts where there's a substance involved and it's more than just intoxication with wine.
And we now are trying to look at the New Testament.
I've talked to some academics who want to kind of reject the idea that there was no chemical substance beyond just regular wine,
which would intoxicate you if you drank enough.
But there's like this growing suspicion that there's something more possibly going on.
And of course we go back to like the immortality key, your book The Apples of Apollo, which I highly recommend everybody get.
This is a wonderful book.
It goes into a bunch of different poetry and just showing you these ideas.
Let's start with the conclusion and then have you build up your case.
Do you think that the Eucharist is more than just wine?
Is this a hallucinogenic experience in your estimation?
I think that for certain groups within Christianity, it was a mystery initiation which induced an actual alteration.
Do you think Paul, with his visions, with his experience of Jesus, may fit that category?
He was either schizophrenic or he had a mystical experience.
He says that he knows a man in Christ.
He's obviously referring to himself, but he self-deferentially speaks,
as if it were someone else who was caught up and taken to the seventh heaven and heard words that were for the mystery.
And so that is a description of a mystery initiation.
Or, as I said, was schizophrenic.
Yeah, I kind of wondered what your thoughts would be.
It's not required or necessary, but it is interesting to think about.
Now there's an agape feast that I hear about.
The early church is mentioning this love feast, this agape feast that's happening.
I think it's taking place in Ephesus, in Asia Minor, I'm not sure.
Do you see connections to that in the mystery cult?
There was the general term for the early Christian meeting.
I thought this also had a term, this agape feast was something that predated what we see as Christianity,
but was also found within mystery cults and stuff.
The paintings from the catacombs depict a banquet for the dead person who was there.
And some of the paintings have a toast to a female called agape.
Some people have taken it to mean the name of the dead person was agape, the woman named agape.
But it probably is an indication that in the catacombs they were having a secret Christian ritual.
It's generally taken to indicate, I mean the catacombs paintings are taken to indicate that the Christians hid from persecution in the catacombs.
That is the most stupid way to hide.
Since people knew they were down there and they would all together and very easy to cash if that's what was involved,
they were having a necromantic agape meeting, probably with a mind-altering substance in the presence of the tomb of the dead person.
Okay, I've got another question.
How likely is it that we would say Christianity is really Judaism?
In light of the fact that that's kind of anachronistic to assume Orthodox Judaism's on the scene,
but there's so much engagement with like Pharisees and Sadducees and such, at least as painted in the Gospels,
and it seems Paul's engaging with Scripture in some sense.
The question then becomes like everyone wants to know, is Christianity really within the vein of Judaism or a form of it that's so Hellenized
that it would be open-minded to saying we're going to eat the flesh and drink the blood of a God?
There's a reason why Jews are not Christians is because Christianity is not a Jewish religion.
It is a Hellenistic religion. It espoused occult traditions and Judaism would have been an occult tradition in the Hellenistic world,
but it is a thoroughly Greek or Hellenistic religion.
How does that impact maybe Christianity's? Oh, go ahead.
Well, it has relations, obviously, to non-canonical versions of Judaism because there were mystical versions of Judaism also.
So this is a Hellenistic adaptation of esoteric Jewish mysticism, which is not mainstream Judaism.
Right. How does this impact the origins of Christianity in your look?
I mean, I talked to all sorts of academics all over the place and I'm kind of wondering.
They'll say, well, it started off as like a strictly Jewish movement and this Jewish movement was very obey the commandments,
follow the Torah, all of this stuff as you're seeing in the Gospels,
but then it eventually gets out to the Gentiles and it seems that then at that point you're finding this more open, inclusive message.
How do you see the origins of Christianity?
I doubt that there was a historical Jesus.
I have similar doubts that there was a historical Dionysus, their mythical figures.
It's possible that there was actually a figure that became the mythological Jesus.
And if that is the case, it is, as the Bible claims, the inheritor of the throne of David,
which had to be born from Mary, so she is the lineage of David.
So there may have actually been a Jewish faction that was promoting an heir of the lineage of David in opposition to the then political structure.
There's no evidence of any life of Jesus after the birth until the last year or two.
And that may be because the figure who gave rise to the myth of Jesus was this heir to the throne of David
and he would have been in hiding and sequestration, perhaps being trained.
And it's possible that a locale for that security would have been the Essing community in which we get the Dead Sea Scrolls.
That's a very interesting take.
If I were to dive into Allegra's theory that Jesus or the Christ is kind of this mushroom experience, you may not follow that it's a mushroom, but what is your take on that?
I feel that Allegra's error was that when he, as he thought, proved that Christianity was a mushroom cult, that proved that it wasn't a valid religion.
And then my take on it is that it proves that it was a valid religion, not that it wasn't valid.
It was in keeping with all the other versions of valid religion an actual incompetence of spiritual presences, a mystery.
The Dead do not mean that spiritual presence really exists.
They exist as much as anything else that we construct exists.
What we think is reality is our construct.
It's quite obvious that if we augment our eyesight with a microscope, what we see is real and we accept it is real.
But to think that the five organs of perception that we have or that those organs without alteration are the only way of perceiving reality is an error.
And many people are aware of suspicion that there is at least another way of perceiving reality and that's called intuition.
You can sense things without knowing exactly how you perceive that.
So we mentioned people staring at you from behind and that you can sense that most people can sense that that is happening.
And by what organ of perception do you sense that?
That doesn't mean to say there's only this extra sensation.
There must be an continuity of ways in which you could at the end of your surroundings.
I can tell you having these experiences are obviously very profound.
And this is one of the reasons I wanted to probe is since you had such interaction with Allegro, I didn't know how much you would agree with his conclusions about it being mushroomed coal.
Even if he thinks this invalidates Christianity and you think this validates, do you agree with his interpretations of it?
Or are there things about it you would say he went too far?
Where do you stand on it?
I think it's quite possible that he's right.
And what I reacted most to was his construction of metaphors.
The metaphors are archetypal.
What does archetypal mean?
Well, ordinarily it's taken to being that there are patterns of our thinking which are common to us as humans.
And so we have similar ways across culturally and across many centuries of time to construct the same metaphors.
That is quite possible.
Another possibility is that the plant itself has a mentality and that in periods of altered consciousness, our consciousness and the consciousness of the plant are the communion.
Now it's, of course, outrageous to think that the plant has consciousness.
But on the other hand, most people be aware that animals are conscious and you can feel a certain kind of empathy with animals even though you don't have any direct means of communication.
By what rules are we so self-centered as to think that only things that move are conscious?
How do we know that there is not consciousness in plants?
Or in things that we take to be inanimate like rocks?
Now of course there is.
If we look carefully with our augmented perception with the electron microscope, we know that we think what we think of as static and unmoving is actually moving at great speeds.
And what we think is solid is actually mostly empty space.
So Dr. Rugg, as we're exiting here, I just want to have you on this specific book, The Apples of Apollo.
What are the apples of Apollo?
And people think the Garden of Eden, right? They think it was an apple that Adam and Eve, I know that's jumping to a different topic.
But what are the apples of Apollo?
It's upon Apollo, but the apples themselves are the golden apples of the tree of disparities.
And at the time that, I guess we have discovered it already by that time, there's a Greek vase painting showing Perseus, the Greek hero, who is documented in literary texts as having kicked mushrooms
when he founded the city of Mycenae.
So we have literary texts and this Greek vase painting shows Perseus not picking the mushroom at Mycenae, but picking a golden apple off the tree of disparities.
And the apple that he's picking is annotated above and by two obvious mushrooms.
So that's that picture on the front, right?
No, that's a theosophist's drawing of the crucifix, but it's superimposed upon it.
If you perhaps who's nature is a little bit, you can see quite clearly that there is a mushroom.
Okay. Yeah, there's a lot of mushroom iconography in the paintings and arts through Christianities, you know, stained glass image images and things.
And of course, they did a lot of art with mushrooms.
So it was prevalent.
But when people try to act like those mushroom, that mushroom idea was later a medieval thing only.
Like, you would obviously object and say, no, no, no, this is stemming back earlier.
Yeah, if it's there, it's not something that was invented in the Renaissance, the medieval period.
It's derived from the origin.
It goes back to the very origin of Christianity.
And there's every reason why it would do that, because as we said at the beginning, Christianity is a Hellenistic religion.
And Jesus is an adaptation of Dionysus.
And Dionysus as the God of wine is the God of mushrooms.
The East is obviously recognizable as connected with Dionysus.
But the mushroom of fermentation is linked as the civilized version of the wild mushroom, which figured in the rituals of the Bacchus, the Minas.
You know, I'm sure you've heard of the literary connections between Euripides the Bacchae and the Book of Acts.
I'm sure you've heard of some of those connections, right?
In one of our books, Dionysus and Praise, the cover reproduces a vase painting where a person is offering to a priest as a substance to be added to the wine, which is also depicted in this vase painting.
It's mixed and what is being offered is a mushroom.
I would love to have you and Dr. Dennis R. McDonald on together at some point.
I definitely need to get a copy over to you if you're interested in reading the Dionysian Gospel.
You're going to see so many comparisons on the front.
He splits Dionysus, of course, in half and in Jesus.
But there's so many comparisons from son of God, being a son of God, a child of God, wild birth narrative situations.
One is a virgin birth and the other one's conceived by Zeus himself.
Really weird.
The bosom of the father, like you kind of wonder if there's some Abraham's bosom.
Is there a connection to the bosom of Zeus here with Dionysus?
There's a lot of things to consider that they don't recognize him as the son of God, Penteas.
He gets ripped apart by the minads.
That experience where the bright light and the minads capture him when he's hiding in the tree,
this might actually be an imitation of Paul or Saul's conversion where a bright light comes.
There's probably what he calls eclectic mimicism,
which means there's more than one literary source being used in this narrative.
Because when it talks about Paul saying, Jesus says,
Saul, Saul, why do you persecute me?
And he's like, who are you, Lord?
Well, that's a literary lift from when King David was running from Saul.
And he says, Saul, Saul, why do you pursue me?
Same Greek word for persecute and pursue.
So it's lifted.
But the bright blinding light and this experience of Jesus could have destroyed him according to the narrative,
but he shows him mercy.
What happens in that situation is the bright light appears to Penteas and the minads rip him apart.
Dionysus does not show him mercy.
So there's this possible literary comparison going on.
And I think you'll enjoy the book in many ways.
Yeah, definitely.
This has been a blast.
There's so much you have in your works that we really could uncover and dive into narratives,
different cults with different ideas, different gods in the Greco-Roman world.
Of course, you're a classicist.
You are an emeritus, correct?
Yes, I haven't been tired.
Oh, man, that's amazing.
So you're still trucking.
Well, I hope you keep going.
I wish I was able to be a student of yours and actually sit there and learn.
But I really do appreciate the teaching you've already brought me today.
There's so much to explore.
I kind of wanted to do just to go over some basics and run through some stuff, overarching view.
Next time we can actually dive into examples from your books.
And I hope more people will get them, study them, look into this stuff because this is fascinating.
Thank you, Derek.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen, all the links are down in the description.
His books are there.
Trust me, you don't want to miss out on the material.
The Apples of Apollo is an amazing book.
I'm enjoying all of this and never forget, we are MythVision.
Ladies and gentlemen, join MythVision's Patreon not only to support us,
but there are 72 videos that I did with Dr. Dennis R. McDonald and Richard Carrier
all on the Patreon Early Access.
You guys can ask personal questions when I go to interview these scholars
and you're helping MythVision grow.
MythVision.
