Do we know any of the details on that?
That was that was recorded on the recording any of those made public other only in you endo that Tom has very kinky bizarre
I hate to get into people's sexual thing even if it is Tom Cruise but apparently he has
strange and
I
Think kinky is the best word of
Sexual things, but without going into the deeper specifics. So
All of this unbeknownst to Tom
or as
recorded with heavily concealed cameras and
Daily as David Miss cabbage drank his scotch in the evenings with his comrades with his
the top brass
They mocked and laughed at Tom's sexual secrets
Can you believe that I believe it and I not only believe it Karen, but what's interesting about you discussing this
Sometimes I think in your position. It's easy for you to say things and people not realize well
How does she know I mean you were kind of married to heber gents
So like, you know, you actually have an inside scoop to the highest echelon
within Scientology, but you're connected with many of these
SPs as we like to call them people who were at upper echelon positions that have
apostasized from the Scientology cult and
They're
Vocalizing these things and telling us so there there's probably inside things like I wonder if your husband
Heber ever told you any of this stuff about how they're looking at Nicole or being in the position
You were hearing the murmuring within the cult at the top
About her as an enemy or on how maybe Tom Cruise was laughed at when they knew the things
He had said on the recording. Is that the case or are you hearing this from other SPs who had left the cult?
Can you fill us in a little more on how you know this information?
Marty Rathburn back in the day was a very dear close friend of mine and
It's not a secret that I sent him generous donations and
His blogs
Electrified the world as he as he wrote up all he was the vortex. He was the center of
Excientology world
And he wrote two or three books
Elaborating even more on all of this those books have never been
First of all just knowing Marty on a very personal basis
Marty
Has not Marty has does some flip-flops he seems to be
That's a whole different story you don't want to get off the Tom Cruise but
There's no question that Marty was Tom Cruise's auditor. There's no question
In the Scientology time track that Marty was the most inner circle
Confident of David Mascavich. No question. It's
Everyone in the world who was in Scientology in the 90s and I think Marty blew in 2005
2007 somewhere around there
he was the
Lieutenant actually he was David Mascavich's right-hand man. So if anyone in the world
Was in a position to know the actual facts
No, to answer your question. Heber and I never discussed Tom Cruise. We discussed many many things but not
But not Tom Cruise Tom Cruise didn't
Tom Cruise seemed to go more and more
Weird and crazy
After 2005 he slowly, you know the Mac Matt Laura interview on NBC
when he was
combative I
Know the history of psychiatry. You don't
This is the way he spoke to
His host was interviewing him Matt Laura on NBC and the debate was
he was saying poking his nose that
Psychiatric drugs should not be taken by a mother
That's depressed after childbirth
He's not even a female. He didn't even give birth, but he was dictating how bad
psychiatric drugs were
right, this is
him debating Matt Laura and
Matt said do you remember the do you remember the name of the
The show
No, no the girl the actress
He was the actress who was taking
Psychiatric drugs. I don't I don't remember. I know the interview you're talking about and it's insane
But yeah
Matt Laura said but she said that she got
Benefit from the psychiatric drug and then Tom went off like a firecracker
You have an investigated psychiatry. I have it was just
It
But you see he's aping David Miss cabbage. He's gone into the identity
Do you understand how people do a copycat of someone they greatly admire?
The Beatles were a sensation so tons of bands with black fringe hair all
They were being the Beatles that the copycat bands that went all around the clubs and stuff, right? That's an example of how
people emulate look at how many people
Emulated Marilyn Monroe wearing the halter neck and
Talking in a baby voice and stuff like that. Do you remember? I mean that's just a copycat of someone
They are so admiring and Tom
kept on
copying David Miss cabbage. That's who he was
Aping or echoing and that just made the media think oh
God
What happened to Tom Cruise?
Well, I'll answer the question Tom Cruise was being the savage combatant
Because that's what he found out the way you treat people is
You overwhelm them
He was indoctrinated
That people are degraded beings. There's most of the population are just
Subhuman practically animals
This is the David Miss cabbage attitude people are robots. They're just
There are only a handful of big beings Tom
You and I are in the category of big beings
We're not the scum of these the general population that are donkey and stupid than
Robotic and moronic
This is a Scientology attitude of the general population
Till you give them gobs of money and get Scientology indoctrination. You're just a twerp. You're just a
Average practically lunatic stupid fool your plebeian
you're a country
Country boy with no wisdom at all only Scientology will bring you upward and take you higher
Tom swallowed all this. He was the big being
