Dr. Kip Davis, you traveled from Canada, somehow made it through the border and came to visit me
to record this course that we have here, The Real Israelite.
The border crossing, I had to do it twice.
I know, it was crazy. Your traveling here was interesting. You came to the studio,
The Real Israelite religions. And of course, you're dealing with the facts on the ground and
propaganda. Can you tell us what you think people will gain from this course and why they should
take it? I think if you have any interest in the Bible, or if you have any interest in history,
or if you have any interest in literature, and even if you have any interest in the translation
of religion and religious ideas in popular culture and within our modern world, I think
you're going to get something valuable and useful out of this course. What I'm trying to do is,
I'm trying to do two things really. On the one hand, my course is trying to provide a very
practical, real-world picture of what religion and culture and life was like within Iron Age
Israel, this place and this time that we identify as so-called biblical,
what it actually looked like and how people lived and what they thought about God and how
they worshiped him. But then on the other side of this, I spend a great deal of time talking about
the actual text of the Bible and how it's developed these ideas for its own purposes and in many
respects for its own ideology or even ideologies. Because I think we can identify elements within
the text itself which are not always entirely congruous to one another. Just as an example,
one that I'm thinking of off the top of my head, I deal with in my lecture on Kings and Prophets
where I show two sides of this picture. Within the Bible, we have elements of royal propaganda,
we have elements of state apologetics for the throne and for the kingdom and for the benefit
of the ruler. But then you also have embedded within the text of the Bible resistance text
which are clearly produced by people who were in opposition to the royal household and the
throne and the administration. So you've got various pictures of what's going on.
You go into something that I saw, a really interesting video
recently that really caught on fire, just went viral by our friend Dr. Justin Sledge on Esoterica
on the origins of Yahweh. And of course, you go in in this course specifically kind of addressing
some of this material. Where do we think Yahweh comes from and how this gets incorporated into
the biblical corpus, how this name we didn't know about this name before and then it's now being
revealed to Moses. So what is this tradition? But I just wanted to tease people to say this is a
very thorough course. I edited this course. It's 13 hours of content. The amount of time that went
into editing it is a different question. But I wanted to just highlight something. You keep bringing
up Josiah's reform. And this is a very pivotal moment by academics of the biblical corpus,
the kind of propagandistic approach from the authors of the literature. They have different
views too. This is something worth thinking about is how do these authors, how do these
prophets think, etc. But I asked to kind of get this out there. You can see I'm jabbing at the
fundamentalist angle here to say this Josiah's reform, it's almost like the propaganda worked
because everyone accepts that well his perception of Yahweh needed to be in this central location
and the worship needs to be out of this particular place. That like became the hook line and sinker
everyone buys today as if that was really from God. Yet for millennia before Josiah came on the
scene that was never even thought of. It was just that's what you're showing about the material
evidence. Even in the Bible we see this hinted at. Can you talk about that a little more?
Yeah, absolutely. This story of Josiah I think is maybe one of the most important and also one
of the most interesting within the entire Old Testament. And for the reasons that you've alluded
to. So it's on the surface of it. It looks like it fits right within this this this biblical picture.
And so much of this is by design because it takes place within what scholars call the Deuteronomystic
history. Which begins way back in the book of Joshua and then stretches through the book of
Judges and then First and Second Samuel and First and Second Kings and it culminates with Josiah.
So right at the outset if you're reading this from basically start to finish and you get to Josiah
the expectation is you know what's going to happen and you know the problem and Josiah provides
what seems to be a very natural solution. Like it's one of the one of the amazing things about
reading the Deuteronomystic history. And back when I used to read it as a as like a like a
sincere evangelical believer was just how stupid it seemed everybody was. Where they constantly
got these very simple things wrong right. I mean the minute you start disobeying Yahweh and
promoting the worship of other gods in the Jerusalem temple or you know the promotion
of worship outside of the Jerusalem temple everything goes wrong. But then when people you
do things correctly then everything is good. So it's setting up the story is setting up this
conclusion to the point where when you read it the expectation is oh yeah of course this is
what happened of course when Josiah undertakes these reforms everything works. If I can add in
there just with you on the evangelical mindset here is that like they paint they force you to
the conclusion where it's like you almost are thinking how silly what do they gain from worshiping
these other gods. How stupid don't they see what's happening to the world and their nation because
of this. And that is the propaganda you're describing. That's the propaganda. Exactly.
We're not seeing that like that what their propaganda is is actually the thing that's
contrary to reality. It's so not that way in reality but go ahead. You know there's this
expression that does protest too much. I think it's Shakespearean right. And that's the Deuteronomystic
history in a nutshell and that's Josiah's reforms in a nutshell. Like what he undertakes to do is
so thorough to use a word. I think it's a clear indication of just how widespread and how common
place these other religious expressions throughout the kingdom were and always had been. And then we
see elements of this you know popping up in other texts within the Hebrew Bible.
But more recently I've sort of focused on one part of this story this Josiah's story which I
think is really really telling. So Josiah basically reads this early form of the book of Deuteronomy
which indicates to him that he needs to eliminate the worship of all the gods in the Jerusalem
temple except for Yahweh. And then he needs to go outside of the city of Jerusalem and eliminate
all the worship of all the other gods. And then he also needs to eliminate all these other cult
places where Yahweh is worshiped and then establish just the Jerusalem temple as the only place
where you can worship only Yahweh. And then the other thing that he does is he institutes
this Passover festival. We're told for the first time becomes basically a pilgrimage where people
are not just to celebrate the Passover in their own homes but they actually now have to come in
and celebrate the Passover as you know a collective as the nation of Israel in the Jerusalem temple.
And this is this is not only just entirely new it's also just a mass of pain in the ass if you
think about it. And Josiah's reasons for doing this are I think pretty obvious. He's exercising a
form of authoritarian control on the religious practices of all the people throughout the nation
by basically saying you can't do anything of all this stuff that you've been doing up to this time
you've got to stop doing it and you have to come here to do it. Now I just want to say one thing
about this that I've started to see within the story which I think is really interesting and
it's really subtle. When Josiah clears out the temple and removes all the all the cult
objects from the temple it says he takes out the ashore pole then he grinds up the ashore pole
then he burns the ashore pole. So there's a special focus a special strong emphasis
on you know the desecration of this ashore pole that was in the Jerusalem temple. But then it says
he takes the ashes and he scatters them over the graves of the common people.
Now it's just it can appear as just a description in passing but I think it's really important
and it's really indicative of what's happening here. What Josiah is doing is he's just expressing
his extreme contempt for what the ordinary people are doing you know the people who are living out
in the countryside outside of the city of Jerusalem just in their family households. He's basically
expressing his contempt for their religious practices because within the households
is where ashore was worshiped not just in the Jerusalem temple but also within the households
and she the worship of ashore was very prominent within these these households. So for him to
basically throw this ashore pole this burned up destroyed ashore pole and desecrate the graves
of the common people this is him basically thumbing his nose at them and saying yeah
this is what I think of all your little your little household your little household colts and
shrines and and you know you better stop doing this stuff. To use a New Testament example of this
kind of propaganda even though your course is specializing on the Old Testament ideas or
Hebrew scripture ideas or ancient Israel etc is in that passage with the woman at the well in John
4 where Jesus is talking and when the Messiah comes he'll tell us all things and and and she
goes you know my ancestors worshiped on this mountain and he's like oh yeah yeah and Jews
worship in Jerusalem and in Samaritans Mount Garazim he goes but soon and now is the time where
anyone and everyone will worship not on that mountain or on this mountain but in God and
father in spirit and in truth almost anywhere. So there's already an anti Jerusalem kind of
anti Mount Garazim propaganda in the New Testament here and suggesting screw those mountains God
will be worshiped anywhere and everywhere and that is the new propaganda that we have but
really it needs to be in spirit and in truth which means the Christ cult kind of position.
Yeah yeah no I think that I think that's exactly right and and that's that's what you see
expressed throughout the the Hebrew Bible are these similar sorts of expressions
which are clearly and obviously designed to denigrate forms of worship that the writing
elites in the Jerusalem temple found that they didn't like basically.
We go through Josiah's reform you go into apocalypticism you go into human sacrifice
and that one was tough to edit because the the kind of videos you use you're using modern tv shows
often to kind of get people enticed in how the the family works the cultic practices
there's so many things you go into what can someone who takes this course walk away with by
the way if you do get this course and I hope you do you're not only helping kip davis you're not
only helping myth vision but you're also going to own it for life it's all in super high quality
it's 18 lectures it's 13 hours long you can share it watch it with your friends meaning you can
like have them come over and check out the videos and stuff I mean there's there's so much you can
use this for but what would the biggest takeaways be in your opinion kip on this course so just
just to give people an idea of what they're going to get so yes there's the 13 hours of lectures
there are over 30 pages of notes that I've included with the course there is a bibliography
that I believe has almost 150 entries in it of secondary literature that you can read
um to to to help further your your exploration into into various topics that that are of interest
there are pds of all the lecture slides which itself is over 120 pages I think um so you're
going to get all this stuff but I think the the biggest takeaway maybe of the course is that
people who take it are going to provide themselves a really comprehensive solid background of what the
bible is and where it came from which is really my my primary goal I'm a I'm a biblical scholar so
my my interest is in helping people to understand what the bible is where it came from what it's
about but then in addition to that uh something that I want to help people do is to understand how
uh the bible has contributed to even our our own modern ideas something that the people might not
be clear to see right at the outset is that western culture uh the united states canada
europe australia these places where um most of your viewers and mine live uh has developed
out of a very strong apocalyptic worldview uh and there are elements to the way in which our own
brains are just wired um that come from this uh these these ancient religions and and these these
these ancient religious expressions and I think it's useful as just as an exploration of of
human sociology and human psychology to to take a look behind the curtain um as I've said a few
times today already uh taking a look behind the curtain of what's recorded in the bible to see
where all this came from and it helps us to it helps to provide people with a a better understanding
of where people took it even long after there was no israel anymore and there was no israelite
religion anymore what happened in judaism and what happened in christianity I think you you can
gain a strong sense of what happened there uh through the background information that I've
provided in my course well I hope everybody knows in the description pinned at the top in a comment
you can go click the link go sign up today share this with your friends let them go sign up
your help in academics want to expose this material more coming to youtube and you'll
own it for life I know I learned a ton while editing it and I will continue to return to
it to learn more information dr kip davis thank you so much for your time I hope that this uh
course can help enlighten many people and maybe provide some freedom to some people
who want to be able to explore these these things without the dogma attached to exploration
thanks derrick
