Is the shroud of turn fake or is that really the shroud that was housing the body of Jesus
from the first century? Today an expert historian on this topic discusses with myth vision that
very question. If you've been harassed by multiple Christian apologists shoving the shroud of turn
down your throat telling you it is authentic and you better realize it well give them this video
because they could use a dose of reality when it comes to the history of relics in the church.
Pay attention closely as Dr. Nicolotti actually exposes these ideas and let's get his book out
there for more people to check it out.
We are myth vision. Welcome back to myth vision pod.
I'm your host Derek Lambert. Today we're talking about the shroud of turn.
One of the big questions is is it authentic? Is this really the shroud that goes back to Jesus?
A lot of you want to know the answer to that question. We have a lot of apologists that love
to come and harass this question in the chat against people and this debate has been going on for a
long time. So today I'm actually going to be interviewing a professor who actually is 100
yards or something from where the shroud is actually located right now and that professor is
Andrea Nicolotti and he is a professor if I may a full professor of history and Christianity
and churches at the University of Turin. So his specialty in particular is on the shroud of turn.
He's written a book the shroud of turn the history and legends of the world's most famous relic.
It is in English. It has been translated nicely so everybody can go and get the book,
check it out. But also today I'm going to be having professor Andrew Casper who's going to be actually
translating from Italian into English and let's hope this works out as planned. He is also an
author and has a book for those of you who haven't got it an artful relic. So make sure you guys go
get the books. I highly recommend them. No time wasted. Let's go to question number one and I'm
going to try and make these questions very simple and maybe say them slow enough where Dr. Nicolotti
can actually understand and then we can come back. So the first question I have for you
is the simple obvious one that everyone wants to know. Is this really the shroud that Jesus
from the first century was put in? Yeah, the response to that question is quite simple. No,
it is not really the it is not the real burial shroud of Jesus Christ and that is in fact the
opinion not only of myself but most people who study it but that does not mean that it's still
not an important an interesting object to study. I absolutely agree with you and I just wanted to
clarify question number two. How do we know this is not the shroud that Jesus from the first century
was put in? So there are three ways that we can answer that question. The first is from the
historical record. There is no testimony of the shroud that dates from before the Middle Ages
and in fact those that do exist from the Middle Ages say that the shroud is a fake. It is not
a real relic. So the second response to that question involved the textile itself. The type or
style of weave of the shroud is typical of the Middle Ages and does not exist back in antiquity
at the time of Jesus Christ. And then finally there is the scientific reason and that is that in 1988
the shroud was carbon dated and the results of the carbon dated verified what we already knew
which is that the shroud derives from the medieval period. I appreciate your response.
Following up on that answer is the question. Many people believe that that 1988 scientific
carbon dating is wrong. They say that they took the sample from a certain spot on the shroud
that isn't really from the authentic shroud when they weaved it together. Is this a conspiracy
made up and has no truth to it? So I think that we can see the answer to this question
kind of paralleled by what's happening with the coronavirus. So a lot of the so-called
scientists that make those objections about the carbon dating are really pseudo or really
motivated by pseudoscience. The idea that somehow the samples were switched or that there's actually
a technical problem with the process itself. So for me the biggest reason to reject the
objections to the carbon dating is that no real scientific expert who has experience in the process
of carbon dating has actually accepted the denials that are raised against the carbon dating of the
shroud. And in fact most of the people that do make those objections come from Christian
audiences who are motivated by different things than scientific reasons. And in fact there was
a scientist I believe in Lyon, France who used to believe in the shroud. But then once he found
the carbon dating results he then realized that that was scientific proof that the shroud of
turn cannot in fact be real. Thank you once again for your response. Was creating these shrouds
common practice in the time in which this shroud may have been created a better way to put it?
Is that a way that we can show that this was not really from the first century?
So there are actually a lot of different shrouds that are attributed to being the real
shroud of Jesus Christ. And the shroud of turn that we know today is really one of the last ones
after a long line of these that have existed going back to the Middle Ages. So there have been a
lot of shrouds that have been worshiped or venerated as the authentic shroud in Europe,
in particular in France, both before and after the emergence of the shroud of turn in the Middle
Ages. The shroud of turn just simply overcame or survived all the other shrouds that were worshiped
as the authentic shroud. Many of them were destroyed during the French Revolution. But the
shroud of turn is the one that has emerged to this very day ever since it came into the hands
of the Savoy, the dynastic family who owned the relic in the 1400s and onward.
When did the practice of inventing shrouds begin? Because we know the church would,
I'm being funny a little, but they'd have the toe bone of Peter and then the staff of Paul and
everywhere around the church, they had relics. So when did shroud invention begin?
Yeah, so among the first relics of Jesus Christ that go back to the very beginnings of Christianity,
there actually was no shroud. There was, of course, relics regarded as pieces of the true
cross as well as the crown of thorns. But there was no shroud in the earliest relics. It was in
the 5th and 6th centuries that we start to see testimonies to cloth relics that were believed
to be associated with Jesus Christ. Some of those were associated with his death and others with
other times. But it was the 5th and 6th centuries when we start to see the first eyewitness testimonies
to the shroud. We don't have any traces of the original relics from that medieval period that
were regarded as the real shroud. There was, for example, one by Charlemagne who claimed to have
been seen by Charlemagne as the authentic burial cloth of Jesus, but we don't have any more traces
of what those first shrouds were in the medieval period. The first ones probably arrived in the
West during the Crusades when there was a big traffic of relics coming from Constantinople
and the Holy Lands. And among those relics that were transferred into the West would have been
real relics, but also some that were false or were fake. So a really interesting case involves the
shroud of Cardouane, which was believed to be the real shroud up until 1933. It was believed to be
real, just like the shroud, until there was a cleric who realized that there was writing on it that
was in Arabic. And therefore, in fact, this shroud of Cardouane was not a Christian relic, but was,
in fact, an Arab relic. It was even believed that that shroud worked miracles, like raising the
dead back to life. And so it was a little bit of an embarrassing thing that this shroud that was
believed to be have miraculous powers was, in fact, of Muslim origin and not Christian origin.
So what happened when they realized, when the ecclesiastics realized that this shroud of Cardouane
was, in fact, not a Christian object, they immediately removed it from any kind of cult
significance, and it just became a curiosity, like a museum curiosity. This same thing, however,
did not happen with the shroud of Turin. Thank you so much. The question I have next, who is this?
Who is this person on this cloth? And is it just a painting? Is it drawing? Or is it a real person
who's laying in the cloth that they created it from? So I have to be a little bit cautious here,
because the shroud of Turin is not open to study by people who are qualified to study it. The church
actually keeps it sort of safeguarded, and so you can't actually study it directly. Therefore,
what I have to say about it is a conjectural only. So what we can say is we can look at the
those who have studied the shroud in 1978, largely American scientists and scholars
who were granted access to study the shroud directly. So what those scientists concluded
in 1978 was not that the image on the shroud was painted on, but that the image you see on
the surface of the cloth is a darkening or a yellowing of the cloth itself. So it is possible
that there was in fact a pigment on the surface of the cloth that would have painted the image on,
but that pigment is lost, and then what's left behind then is in fact that yellowing that you
see on the surface of the cloth. So another possibility is that the coloring of the cloth
is a result of a chemical reaction of some sort, or maybe even some sort of radiation or heat,
some sort of natural process of coloring the surface of the cloth. We need to actually do
more studies in particular to look at the depth of the coloring on the cloth, because they say
that the coloring is actually very superficial, it's just on the surface, but you need to take
a closer look, do more studies of the cloth itself to see whether or not that's true.
So there have been attempts to try to replicate how the image would have adhered to the cloth,
involving a swabbing. There have been attempts to try and replicate what and how the image would
have adhered to the cloth, using as a model a living body and a bow relief for the head,
both covered with the cloth, and then rubbing the fabric with a kind of brush filled with some kind
of pigment. Yeah, it would be an orthographic or sort of a perspective projection of a face
on the surface of the cloth. If someone can do an experiment by actually, you know, putting some
paint on their own face, then pressing a cloth against it, and what you would see is something
very deformed, not at all like what we see on this on the shot of Turin. Could be that the
image in the shroud comes from some sort of miracle, but that's not something that can be
verified by scientific means. Could also be that some sort of radiation, like some sort of photographic
process would have been responsible for forming the image on the surface of the cloth. We can't
actually come to a firm conclusion about this because we don't actually have direct access to
the shroud in order to study it directly. Some believers in the shroud argue that since it is
not possible to replicate today a copy identical to the original, this means that it must be the
result of a supernatural event, but this is really an absurd claim. It's an impossible task to try to
exactly replicate something from antiquity, just like we can't exactly replicate a strativarius
violin or an object from ancient Egypt. If you're looking at a microscopic level, you can't
actually fully exactly replicate something from the past. We can only come to sort of general
conclusions about what kind of process could have been used, but to try to require modern scholars
to exactly replicate the means is impossible. It obviously is something commonly practiced that
they were making relics and saw value in them. Just like today, people stand in front of a statue
of Mary. They know that that's not really Mary, but Mary comes to life in the relic, in the statue
and whether it's real or not, actually Jesus, they see value in that, which comes to Dr. Andrew
Casper's book, where he talks about this as something that was practiced all throughout history,
especially in turn. So what makes your book different than Dr. Andrew Casper's book,
an artful relic? So my book, I started writing my book from the point of view of the history of
the Shroud of Turin and not from a theological or artistic point of view. There are other scholars
who have taken other points of view, like Dr. Casper, that I do not in my own. My own book talks
about the history of the shrouds that go back to the medieval period, but in particular the Shroud
of Turin itself and also all of the stories and the histories plural about that object.
One of the things I did is I translate a lot of the earliest texts that talk about the shroud
and its appearance and all the conflicts that surrounded the Shroud of Turin throughout its
history. My book also deals with the selling, how the shroud was sold to the Savoy family,
the same family that became the first kings of Italy, and how therefore the shroud was for them,
not only an object of devotion, but was also a political object for them and their rule.
I also wrote about how the court historians of the Savoy court, the Savoy family, the court
historians made up an ancient history for the shroud that didn't actually actually exist in
order to justify their claims about its importance. So even how the church constructed their own
history of the shroud and how it wasn't even an equal or balanced even history, sometimes it was
promoted and sometimes it was not. In recent decades there's been a huge growth of interest in the
Shroud of Turin. When I was a kid it was talked about much less and even my first start living
in Turin is talked about much less. And I also wanted to write about the scientific history of
the shroud starting in 1898 when the shroud was first photographed and all of the scientific
uses of the shroud in order to argue for or against its authenticity, bad science, but also good science.
Thank you. Yeah, your book is a little different than Dr. Andrew Casper's and I enjoy his because
it's telling you the imagination and coming from the artistic, religious side, whereas you're talking
about the history and getting into the exact of how it plays through history. You said there were
people who said in history that the shroud was fake. What did they have to say about the shroud
and when did they say this? What year? Yeah, the first documents we have are French that come from
the second half of the 1300s. The first documents regard this controversy between the cannons of
a small church in France and their bishop who is the first to state that the shroud is indeed a
fake relic. In 1389, this bishop was the first to affirm that the shroud was being used for monetary
reasons, motivazione di lucro, quindi per guadagnare soldi, quindi, sì, esatto. For reasons of money
and for profit, the shroud was being displayed in these churches for reasons of profit.
Right after the Pope, the Avignon Pope, Clement VII, while he did not declare the shroud specifically
a fake relic, he did prohibit the canon of that church from presenting it as a real authentic
relic. And then from the time that the Savoy got their hands on the shroud in the 1400s,
there never really was any questioning of its authenticity until the French Revolution,
or maybe better to say until the age of humanism. And then there are even people from inside the
church that at various points considered the shroud to be false. And in fact, one of the
main ones was in fact himself a priest. One of the first medievalists, Ulysses Chevalier,
was in fact himself a priest. And Ulysses Chevalier did not believe in the authenticity of the shroud.
Thank you so much. I have to ask, since you mentioned in history that some leaders in the
church were saying, no, this is fake, or no, you're using this for money. And some people say, no,
this is true. This is real. Where is the church at today on the relic in admiration of the shroud
of Turin? So I have a response that is a little bit of theology, but also a little bit of like
church politics from a theological position. It's a private cult, and it's not required to be a
Catholic to also then believe in the authenticity of the shroud. And this is why there have been,
in fact, members of the church who have taken positions against the authenticity of the shroud
and also against the authenticity of other relics as well. And this is why the shroud in the, or
sorry, the church in this present moment today does not affirm definitively the authenticity
of the shroud of Turin. So the church can decide whether or not it can insist upon the cult of
any relic, the shroud, or otherwise, or to just simply let it be as it is. The church has not
been equal in its position on various relics. It can insist on the veneration of certain relics,
while not insisting on the veneration of other relics. We're in a moment where the fame of the
relic is propagated by the church, but not really in a kind of official way. So there are a lot of
preaching, a lot of journals, a lot of newspapers and print media that do insist on the authenticity
of the shroud and kind of silence those that are against it. Depends a little bit on the different
bishops of Turin and also the different popes that we've had in recent history. There have been
bishops in the past, bishops of Turin, in the past that were less insistent on promoting the
cult of the shroud of Turin. And then the current bishop is much more insistent on promoting the
cult. It's been the reverse for the popes. There were popes in the recent past that were much more
insistent on promoting the cult and then the current pope right now, the current Pope Francis,
is not so insistent on promoting the cult of the shroud. This sort of attitude is a little bit
self-contradicting and I think in the end probably has the potential to damage the position of the
church. The strong insistence on those within the church who do want to promote the cult of the
shroud of Turin could do damage to the faithful who might wonder why there is such a heavy
insistence on the authenticity of the shroud when there hasn't really been enough studies to prove
that that is in fact the case. Yes, there are plenty of people inside the church that don't
really hold the shroud of Turin to be authentic but do not say so publicly, do not reveal those
attitudes very publicly to be in contradiction to what others might say. What kind of backlash
have you received for your work, for your book? Have you received negative people antagonistic
towards your work? The reaction has been kind of the extreme from both sides or from both directions.
From an academic and scholarly point of view, the book has been very well received. It has won
prizes and it was published by the top premier academic press that there is in Italy. On the
other side though, the book has been heavily criticized by what we call syndenologists who are
largely those who study the shroud from the point of view of its authenticity and it's even resulted
in the book being taken out of various Catholic and Christian bookshops. So I could give an example
inside the Cathedral of Turin where the Shroud of Turin is kept. There is a little bookshop and
every single one of the books about the shroud that is sold in that bookshop promotes its authenticity.
Yeah, the book has been very well received because there's been decades since there's
been any kind of serious scholarly study on the history of the shroud. In fact, it's been about
a century. So my book fills a big gap. It used to be that serious scholars kind of avoided studying
things like the Shroud of Turin that were the subject of such this kind of cult religious
cult attention. But since the publication of my book, now there are other scholars, other historians
who are interested in looking at other similar objects. For example, a new book on the Blood
Relic of San Gennaro in Naples, which is a very important Christian relic in Naples.
Thank you so much. I highly recommend everybody to go get the book. Help reverse the problem.
Since many people are being critical and the public, you know, we want more publicity and not
just academics, myth-vision fans go get you guys a copy because I want to promote critical thinking.
I want us all to look into this stuff. And that doesn't mean be critical for critical sake.
That means value the art of this, but also understanding what the actual facts are. So
be sure to go get you a copy. If you haven't gone down in the description, the book is there,
the Shroud of Turin, the history and legends of the world's most famous relic. And don't
forget our friend, Dr. Andrew Casper's book, an artful relic. He helped translate this whole video
today with our good friend, Dr. Niccolotti. I hope I'm saying that correctly. And once again,
thank you so much for your time. I appreciate it. Thank you.
Grazie. Thank you. It just translated from... Okay!
