Ladies and gentlemen, I'm the host of MythVision Podcast, Derek Lambert.
I created a GoFundMe for my trip to Israel and please consider helping.
I've been a fundamentalist most of my life and believing that Jesus was God in the flesh.
But after further study and investigating my own worldview and the challenges of life itself
allowed me to do so, I considered maybe Jesus didn't exist at all. And you know,
you go from one extreme to the other to the point where I thought, none of this is real.
And then I started to sweep away the dust and maybe realized that there was a fossil
that I wasn't looking at. And then I thought maybe there was a guy, maybe there was a man
at the basis named Jesus. Well, this October, I'm hoping to walk through the places Jesus was
according to the Gospels. And if he was there, I'm hoping to get footage so you can all see that
and be there with Dr. James D. Tabor, who's going to be my tour guide. Also my good friend,
Gnostic and Formant Neal. Both of them have been cooperating and communicating and working together.
We're all planning on making a trip to Israel. Please, we could use your help.
But how important is it to be there at the places? Maybe even be at the place where Pontius Pilate
himself was casting the verdict of people being guilty and innocent. That's one of the locations
I plan on visiting or Hezekiah's Tunnel, where we can go through that dark deep tunnel on the earth
with the Israelites dug to get water beneath the earth and survive when they were surrounded,
for example, in warlike situations. I want to go and see what it looks like and have someone like
Dr. Tabor take me and point out what's going on around us. I think I've kind of taken for granted
what maybe the real verisimilitude of the situation was in the first century.
Would you care to join us? I'll bring back a bunch of footage. I could really use your help.
So please consider helping us make this trip possible, if you can. If you can't, I totally
understand. I'm simply trying to make this something that I can burden my family with
will probably be gone for 10, 11 days, and I hope to get as much content as possible
so I can come back and shock the world with my visit. A man who believed he was God
until he didn't even exist. There was somebody who existed. How much of it is history and how much of it
is myth?
you
