Dr. Allison, we have an eight-part lecture course,
The Quest for the Historical Jesus.
Can you tell us what this course is about?
Well, it's really about the last, I suppose,
about 250 years of scholarship on the historical Jesus.
But it begins before that.
It actually begins with the Reformation
because I think that the Quest for the Historical Jesus,
if you look at its genealogy,
actually goes back to Protestant criticisms
of Roman Catholic doctrines, Roman Catholic texts,
Roman Catholic claims to miracles.
The early Protestants are pretty skeptical and critical
when it comes to all sorts of religious traditions.
And that sort of skepticism,
that leariness about miracle claims and so on,
eventually moves into the deistic movement
and the Enlightenment and so on.
And sets the stage for the first person I discuss
in the class, who's a German
who was actually a pastor named Raimaris.
And then I just look at what happens
from Raimaris pretty much to the present.
So it's from Raimaris to John Domino Croson
and looking at the major figures in between
what exactly they said, why they said it
and what the responses were to them.
The major figures, at least in the first half of the class
are all German because that's where most of the interesting
stuff was done for the first century or little more.
And then finally we get some British and American scholars
at the end of the course and bring it up to date.
But it's a survey of the whole Quest for the Historical Jesus
focusing on 10 to 12 major figures.
Is it safe to say that anyone who studies New Testament
interested in biblical theology, biblical research
and trying to figure out what Jesus might have said
or what he might have done or the history behind
what scholars think today and how this would be
an important course to go and watch?
Well, I hope so.
So first of all, I don't think you ever understand anything
without knowing its history.
So if you wanna know who a human being is,
heck, that's what psychologists do.
They go back and look at their history,
maybe even back to childhood.
If you want to know what the field is like today
and what people are doing and why they say certain things,
you need to know what people were discussing before them
and why they were discussing it and so on.
So the big picture is always important.
It's just like, I don't know.
If you wanna talk about the United States right now
and its political problems right now,
I don't really think you can do it without talking about,
going back at least as far as the Civil War, for example,
and looking at the fallout from that
and looking at the Civil Rights Movement,
looking at World War II and the Vietnam War and so on.
Anyway, to understand the present,
you just have to understand the past.
And it's the same thing with any area of scholarship.
And I actually think that,
I think otherwise it's just very foolish.
It's not only to miss the genealogy
and the setting and the context for everything
and understanding where it comes from.
It's also to make the modern technological mistake
of always assuming that the new is the best
or you should only be watching the new shows
or listening to the new music or whatever.
But there was a lot of good music in the past
and there were lots of good shows in the past
and there were lots of good books that still repay reading.
I spend my time as often as not in older books
as opposed to contemporary books and articles.
So for many reasons, I think this history
and the figures in it are really important.
Which characters in history were your favorite?
If you could pick three, because I know that's hard.
Three.
Yeah, I'll give you three.
Out of the three of the historical quest of Jesus
that you do in this course,
really, which ones are your favorite?
So I don't know that I can answer that question.
I'll do so, but I don't know that it's an honest answer
because I'd have to sit here and think about it
and I wasn't prepared for this.
I suppose of all these people, Albert Schweitzer is my favorite.
He's my favorite for multiple reasons.
He was a great writer.
He was a brilliant person.
I also share some of his views about Jesus.
He was just a brilliant person.
I actually think of him as a sort of mutant,
somebody who had more energy and more intelligence
and more just about everything than the rest of us.
So he's always been an intellectual hero,
but he's also, for me, a moral hero.
Strauss, David Friedrich Strauss is another hero,
but not on ethical grounds.
Not because he's a moral hero
or because his life was that interesting.
He's not like Schweitzer in that respect.
He's also not quite as good a writer,
although he was a decent writer.
I simply find his big book on Jesus,
his critical life of Jesus,
to be endlessly fascinating and endlessly,
just endlessly repays my attention.
So I pull it out all the time.
It was originally published before 1850
and I think it's still really, really helpful.
Strauss knew how to see things.
He had the attention to detail.
And I really, really value that.
Somebody who can see things.
You know, most of the time we see and don't see.
He saw, he looked and he really saw.
I suppose the third person I'd have to cite here
is Joachim Mierameas.
And the reason for that has to do with my own history.
It's just sort of personal.
He was one of the two people when I was a teenager
who really turned me on to this field.
He was constantly citing Jewish sources to explicate Jesus.
And I thought it was fascinating.
He pulled me in.
And I do remember fantasizing once
when I was mowing the lawn as a teenager,
thinking, you know, when I grow up,
what I want to do is write books about Jesus
like Mierameas and I've been able to do it.
So from that point of view,
maybe he was a sort of inspiration.
He certainly got me really hooked into this field.
So there you go.
Three people.
You did it.
You did it.
I'm glad.
I'm proud of you.
I hope that people will take the time
to actually go and check out our course
because it's not only well laid out.
It's extremely organized.
It's beautiful.
Lots of extra reading material.
You can study and find your way through.
This is just lecture one
that I'm scrolling here through to give people an idea.
And then of course you have the videos that are in 4K
and they are beautiful.
I can promise you they are beautiful
and there's a lot of content to learn.
I hope that people will check it out.
Lectures two.
And of course, as you go through the course,
it literally tells you your progress,
how far you are in the lectures.
And I hope that more people will go
and check out this quest for the historical Jesus.
So be sure to sign up for sure.
Dr. Allison, I really appreciate your time.
I really appreciate you expressing that.
I thank you.
I hope people will sign up.
I think this is an important topic for both people
on both sides of the spectrum.
Specifically in my audience,
you're gonna find both Christians
and probably apologists that are looking to respond
to skeptics such as myself or people I have on.
And then those skeptics.
And I thought your course was so well balanced
and just such a great resource
for both people to try and understand.
We're all humans trying to figure this out.
And do you have any final comments?
Well, we all have agendas, right?
We all have agendas,
but agendas don't prevent you from doing history,
from looking back and figuring out what happened.
And they also don't prevent you
from putting forward arguments.
And at the end of the day,
the arguments are the things that matter, right?
Not the agendas of the people behind them.
Because they're what we can debate in public
and the arguments are what push things forward.
Thank you so much.
