Welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
I'm your host, Derek Lambert, and today we have John Knight Lundwall, Doctor John Knight
Lundwall.
How are you doing, Doctor?
Doing great, Derek.
Glad to be back.
So soon.
I know.
I know, man.
This is good, though.
Every time I enjoy when you come on because it's not as strenuous on me, I don't have
to pull stuff out of you.
You have so much information, ladies and gentlemen, he's the author of Mythos and Cosmos, Mind
and Meaning in the Oral Age, and John's thesis is an interesting one.
If you're not familiar with his work, go down in the description.
You see the book on the screen.
Go check out the book because for the longest time, I'll spare you the details.
He might even touch on it as we do the show.
He usually does because he has a unique position on this.
When you go back to oral people prior to writing, a lot of people, if you will actually, you
know what, John, I'll let you break this down because you're the one who's the expert in
the field here, but in particular, your thesis on the orality to written and how that works
from mythologizing history to historicizing mythology, you've touched on this prior, but
in your book, you go in depth, which may, your thesis is completely different than all
the other mainstream people in this field if I'm not mistaken.
Yeah.
Actually, there's a lot of innovative.
I spent years studying different theories of myth and quite shockingly, in the 20th
century, every theory of myth omitted orality studies.
The lacuna is so enormous.
How could you miss that?
I spent several years reading Havlock and Ong and Goody and people in the field since
the 1960s who developed the orality sort of way of looking at history, and none of this,
there's scholars that argue against them.
I mean, the scholars will argue against everything.
But once I began implementing this kind of field of study into my main field of study,
which is ancient mythology and ancient religion, and then adding to it something that the orality
guys missed, and that is ancient cosmology because that's everywhere, then I've got a
synthesis.
We're going to talk about that tonight.
Tonight, after watching our last podcast, I thought I would jump into sort of the origins
of the biblical creation story.
And of course, in the text, nothing is explicit.
It's all implicit, right?
We're getting fingerprints of the oral tradition, and so we're going to try to sort of dig
them up and see how looking at how oral societies function, how might that change or interpretation
of the biblical text, the biblical cosmology, because ancient Israel, well, actually, Derek,
we know almost nothing about them, right?
The Torah is written pretty late.
And actually, Derek, we know almost nothing about 1st Temple Judaism.
I mean, it's amazing how little we know about huge blocks of history.
We know almost nothing about the origins of the Pharaohs.
We know nothing about the origins of the Mesopotamian city-states.
We've just discovered in the past, I guess, and it was the late 1990s, when Gobekli Tepe
was discovered.
You're aware of that site, right?
It's 9000 BCE.
It's a temple with stone pillars, gorgeous stone cut megalithic features, art, and it
predates everything, not by a century, not by a millennium, but by thousands of years,
right?
And it's so, I mean, it just goes to show that our view of history is so incomplete that
one historian actually looks at it and says, well, it's rather depressing unless you choose
to ignore it.
So that's what we got.
Hey, we got a little daemon in the picture here.
He heard Gobekli Tepe, and he said, stones, can I play with them?
All right, buddy, we're doing the show.
Is this?
Go tell your mom.
Is that Derek Jr.?
No, that's Caden.
You already are.
Go ahead, poke your head one more time.
He said, can I be in the show?
Hey, Caden.
So, hey to everybody.
Hi, cheese.
Hey.
Hi, Caden.
Nice to meet you.
I've always been on my corndies.
Yeah.
Okay, no, go get mommy.
Go get mommy.
No.
Go get mommy.
All right.
Sorry about that.
So, yeah, this is, I mean, what you bring up is interesting.
And if we don't know anything, and I don't want to stop you from where you're going,
so keep that in mind if you wanted to keep rabbitrelling.
If we don't know much about that, all we can do is go off of the sources we have.
And maybe even the sources that the biblical authors were using in developing some of the
stuff.
It can kind of say a lot, I think.
So you were saying, I'm sorry.
Well, I mean, so in, for most of prehistory, our sources are oral, so we don't have them.
They're gone.
And so all we have are, you know, a few scraps of archeological debris, and you can't recreate
history by looking at pottery shards in a few statues.
She doesn't tell us anything, almost nothing about the ancient thoughts and metaphysics
of ancient cultures.
And as a result of that, we have filled in their metaphysics by subsuming 99,000 years
of human history under sort of this Darwinian paradigm of, you know, pre-rational, semi-primate,
you know, evolving out of the cave kind of thought.
We either do that or we romanticize them and say, oh, you know, they're super spiritual
and they're Shaman warrior priests who are connected with the landscape.
Academics do this.
They're either primitive slack-jawed yokels or, you know, they're romanticized.
No one, you know, no one ever seems to want to take ancient people as in people living
five, 10, 50,000 years ago and say, well, maybe they were just like us, right?
Either they were, you know, semi-evolved homo sapiens or, you know, we romanticize them.
But what we don't say is, let's assume that they're pretty much just like us.
Why are there so many differences?
And so we'll talk about.
Yeah.
You go into that.
You go into that.
Yeah.
The hardware was the same.
I mean, yes.
Yeah.
You asked scientists today, and I mean, like according to the consensus, if you will, approximately
we're 200,000 years old in the model that we're in technically.
That's correct.
Feet, hands, brain size, everything.
So, you know, I heard Randall Carlson once say this, which I love watching his stuff,
too.
He said, you know, if we've only got approximately 5,000 years at best of the oldest written
literature or possible literature that we have of writings, and this is not in like
regular letter, alphabetical type letter, you know, he says, what happened to the 195,000
years of human history?
So I'm with you.
That's correct.
Exactly.
Exactly.
But you know, as we start peeling back the layers, I mean, they've now found hundreds,
hundreds of hinge sites throughout Europe dating to 5,000 BCE.
So this is 2,500 years before the Great Pyramid.
And their hinge sites, as in, you know, the precursors to Stonehenge.
They would be wooden hinges surrounded by a ditch with two or three openings.
Some of them are aligned to solstice sunrise and sunset positions.
So already, you know, 5,000 BCE, we've got evidence of astronomical observations.
Well, why wouldn't we?
What, you know, the human beings, 5,000, 6,000, 7,000, 8,000 BCE, they domesticated animals,
they domesticated plants, you know, how much work, you know, how much intellectual intelligence
that takes, but somehow we just want to put them in the dumb box.
And in any case, this has nothing to do with tonight's presentation.
You know, I, no, no, actually, let's, let's get to tonight's presentation.
Yes, sir.
All right, Derek, you know, I always try to PowerPoint my podcast.
I am a very visual guy.
So, you know, that's why I do this.
And I think it helps people, some people, you know, they just listen to the audio,
but some people actually watch the YouTube video.
And if they do that, then they can at least follow along.
Tonight, I thought, again, we're going to talk about biblical cosmology and the origins
of the creation story in Genesis.
Now, and of course, this is the reconstructed origins because we just mentioned we have
so little as far as, you know, the, the oral tradition doesn't survive.
We get fingerprints of it in the biblical text.
And that's what I'm going to try to follow tonight.
Let's see if we can, we can lift some of those fingerprints and see what that,
that might do for us in order to enter our discussion.
I'm going to set up some context in the ancient world.
Derek, all oral societies had a creation story.
We call them their creation myths.
But again, myth, the word myth is not an ancient word.
They didn't have that word.
They never told a myth.
That's our category that we assign to them, right?
Because they're, you know, proto-rational, pre-scientific, half-evolved, you know, people.
So, so they are dealing with myths.
Turns out myths are very rational observations of nature and the cosmos as conceived of by
oral minds, all right?
So, you said it, they're operating on the same hardware that we're operating on, but
they are operating on a slightly different software.
Orality structures thought, literacy structures thought.
So this is an entirely different epistemology, an entirely different way of codifying, storing
and transmitting knowledge.
And we've forgotten it.
So we have to reconstruct it.
It's not easy to do, all right?
So one thing we know is all oral societies had a creation story, a creation myth.
This story was the most important one.
Now the way a lot of these creation stories are treated, both in popular culture and in
academia, Derek, is that, you know, sometimes we treat them as like their campfire stories
or, you know, the stories that you gather around and the priest tells you like maybe like at
a church meeting, right?
But that's not what creation stories were in the ancient world.
So let's give a couple examples.
Well, actually, let's hop to the next slide here.
This is my contribution to misstudies.
This is how oral societies layer, store, codify, transmit their knowledge from generation
to generation, okay?
They start with the knowledge that has to be transmitted.
And this is an oral society's cosmology.
Their cosmology is the observations of nature of the above and the below.
Of actual nature, trees, rivers, you know, seasonal cycles, et cetera, you know, crops,
agriculture, migrations.
But they noticed early on, at least by the very early 3rd millennium BCE, because that's
all we have evidence for, but, you know, obviously now that we're finding hinges throughout Europe
dating to 5000 BCE.
Some of them, you know, opening up to solstice position, sunrise, sunset.
Now we know that they're observing these things going way back.
And again, we have to remember, Derek, that Egyptian religion appears in a thunder clap.
You know, we've got pottery shards and post holes and a few little figurines and then
pyramids and pyramid texts, right?
And the pyramid texts show this grand cosmology and religious system.
Well, where did that come from?
Well, it had been developed by the people with the pottery shards and the little figurines
and the post holes, right?
That was already developed in prehistory.
We have no writing.
And so, you know, that alone should tell us, wow, OK, so things are going on at a very
early period that we know very little about.
So the bottom line is they would notice when a certain star rose on the horizon, a plant
would bloom, or that was the time to harvest, or this is when the animals migrated into
the valley, right?
And so they had these heaven, earth links.
And over time, you know, they learned how to hunt, how to gather, how to agriculture,
how to farm by observing the processes of nature of the above and below.
And so they would pass this knowledge down in three different ways.
Using memorable narrative, that's myth, and myth is codified so that it's memorable.
It has outsized figures, oversized scenarios, monsters, copulating gods, you know, it really
is kind of childish gibberish by the time it comes to us.
And for the longest time, that's what people just thought it was, you know, if you don't
expect anything other than childish gibberish from this stuff, that's all you're going to
get, right?
So it's only been over a couple centuries of some very smart people relooking at it,
realizing, oh, a lot more is going on here with ancient myth.
So myth is memorable narrative of the oral cosmology.
But you know, when you don't have any writing, you need to layer your memories in different
mediums.
And so myth had a partner, ritual, they acted the myths out in songs and dances and festivals
and chants and in rituals and liturgies, right?
And so ritual was somatic narrative, bodily narrative that copied the myth.
And then they all created, as far back as we can see, a sacred space by which they measured
and observed the cosmos, told the myths and performed the rituals.
And the sacred space became a fundamental part of creating the society.
In Mesopotamia and in Egypt, Derek, you could not build a city before you built the temple.
You built the temple first, that cosmicized the land, that allowed you to create order
out of the chaos, because nature, it turns out, you know, the romantics say, we want
to get back to nature.
I've got 195,000 years of human history, all shouting at us, don't, don't, we're trying
to escape nature.
It's horrible.
Toil, toil, toil.
And so the temple was built as a way to organize the society so that they could basically
subdue nature in the agriculture, in the rituals, in the myths.
That's how they created their society, their city, their village.
And so this pattern here, the cosmology, mythology, ritual, and sacred space is different mediums
by which oral peoples pass down the information from generation to generation.
So the bottom line is, if the Bible begins in oral tradition, and now pretty much every
Bible scholar says so, right, I mean, everyone's in agreement on that, where the disagreement
starts one step after that, and that is what does that mean, you know, what does the oral
tradition mean?
Most Bible scholars still treat the oral tradition like a fuzzy, literate one, right, that they're
still, they don't treat it what's on your screen.
If there's an oral tradition, then there's going to be a mythic element, there's going
to be a ritual element.
Somehow the sacred space is going to be revealed in it, and there's going to be a cosmological
underpinning to it.
The question is, can we find that in the creation stories in the Bible?
And tonight, I'm going to show you, in fact, it's actually there.
It's all there in shadows and fingerprints, but actually once you see it, you can't unsee
it.
It's pretty evident.
I thought I'd go back just to this slide.
All societies had a creation story.
The story wasn't a campfire story.
A creation story in the ancient world, Derek, acted, it almost acted like a founding document
for a modern society, like the Declaration of Independence or the Constitution.
So let me give you an example.
There's an ancient Egyptian festival, it dates to the Old Kingdom, so early 3rd millennium
BCE.
So it's early stuff.
And the festival was called the Opening of the Year.
This is their New Year festival.
I really should have looked this stuff up before.
I think it's when that renket is the Egyptian name of it.
And so what it was, is it occurred at the rising of the Star Sirius after the Star Sirius
had disappeared under the horizon for 70 days.
That was when the Nile inundated and flooded, and so the water over rose, the banks of the
Nile.
Black soil that was very fertile on the fields, and that is how the Egyptians survived.
They took that soil and planted their crops in it, and year to year, that was their agricultural
cycle.
But it was associated with a celestial cycle, and it was also associated with the flooding
of waters.
Now this becomes very important, because at the Opening of the Year, they are celebrating
their creation mythos.
The water that rises on the Nile, I mean some scholars have argued, you get a lot of these
Near Eastern creation stories where the earth is the first dry land that appears out of
the waters.
This is what we get in the Bible, and it's what we get in Egypt.
And so as the creation story goes, there's the waters above, waters below, and then the
earth first rises out of the waters.
Well, some scholars have noted that maybe the primary metaphor there was actually the
inundation of the Nile, because the water rises, it fertilizes the earth by which you
plant your garden of Eden, right, by which you grow your crops.
This is the renewal of the earth, the re-creation of the earth with the inundation of the Nile.
So some scholars have argued that it's the inundation of the Nile that provides the basis
for these early Near Eastern creation stories of the first dry land appearing out of the
waters.
That makes a lot of sense, yeah.
So I think it does make a lot of sense.
You know, last year I was in Egypt, I'm rabbit trailing already, and you know, I promise
you this will be under 90 minutes.
I am so sorry.
But last year I was in Egypt, and I was, I don't know, 500 yards away from the Great
Pyramid on the causeway, and we were actually, there's a shaft there called the Osirian
Shaff, and it's this, I don't know, 60, 70 feet vertical shaft cut in the rock, and there's
an old rusty iron ladder that you can climb down into it.
I can't believe they let us do this, because the ladder was hanging off, and I thought
maybe anyone, you know, someone's going to die doing this, but anyway, so I was at the
Osirian Shaff climbing down, there was a tomb down there at one point, and this is underneath
the causeway that leads to the Great Pyramid.
And as I climbed down, you know, there's limestone bedrock, and I saw, in fact, do you see that?
I don't know if you can see that, that's a sand dollar, right, fossilized sand dollar.
I bought one of those because that's what I saw embedded in the limestone, a fossilized
sand dollar.
Wow.
And then I realized, you know, these guys are cutting so much stone.
I mean, all these monuments, pyramids, and temples, and obelisks, right, and as they cut
through the stone, it's filled with fossils that are all sea fossils.
And so, you know, quite frankly, it would be very easy to say that the dry land appears
out of the waters above and below, because that's their actual experience.
They're cutting the rock, and they keep running into sea fossils, and they, and some, you
know, they don't know plate tectonics, but they do know that somehow the earth itself
is filled with sea fossils.
So how does that work?
What's really interesting, though, still rabbit trailing here, I will get back to the topic.
If you look at that sand dollar, that five-pronged image is the exact image of an Egyptian star.
That's what they carve on their ceilings in their tombs and temples.
And so the star is actually the, you know, the image of a fossilized sand dollar, right?
And it makes you realize that the waters above and the waters below, they represent it as
a starry region, right, and the earth emerging out of it.
We keep going to terrestrial images, so, you know, the Nile and maybe the oceans.
But as I'm going to get into here, they resolved this as the starry world was the primordial
waters.
In fact, it's the Milky Way, right, and, you know, in Greek cosmology and in the creation
story, oceanus surrounds the flat disc of the earth, and oceanus is the Milky Way.
And so in any case, I'm back here to the creation story.
The opening of the year, they celebrated this festival.
During the festival, they celebrated the death and rebirth of Osiris.
That was part of it.
They celebrated the creation.
They celebrated the inundation of the crops, and this is their planning season.
And so the creation story then has all these fingers.
It has a religious element in the Osiris cycle.
It has an agricultural element in the crops.
It has a political element as the Pharaoh and the royalty oversee it all.
And once you understand that, you realize, you know, this creation story is actually
sort of the entire network of how the society works.
It's running their agriculture, their economy, their religion, and their politics.
That's what the creation story was doing.
And so, no, it's not a campfire story, right?
It is a festival.
It is a ritual.
It is a myth.
It is a cosmology.
You know, it's being kept in tune with Osiris and the agricultural cycle, the solar cycle.
It's all of that.
And that was, you know, and so as we go outside of Egypt, we find the same pattern.
There are patterns in ancient India that they would celebrate their creation story on the
day of the new year.
And all the inhabitants of a villager city, all of them, would show up together and perform
a ring dance around the villager city.
And this was a reenactment of the creation.
It renewed the created world, re-cosmosized, this is what the Egyptians are doing when
the land gets re-fertilized with the inundation of the Nile.
They're just analogically performing a ritual that renews the world, right, based around
their temple, because the priests are the ones that dance around the temple.
The citizens dance around the village or the city.
And so, we get these patterns.
And my point is, we're going to have cosmology, myth, ritual, and sacred space as part of
the oral tradition.
Can we track that in the biblical creation narrative?
And that's what we're going to talk about tonight.
One more thing.
I've totally shot my timeline, so I'm going to go as fast as I can, Derek, I apologize.
There's one more thing I want to talk about, though.
And that is ancient oral cosmology is a radically different way of seeing the world.
This is part of that oral framework of thought that we have lost sense of entirely.
But we get hints of it through our texts.
We have to remember, I'm going to give different examples, but every culture applies it a little
bit differently.
And then we're talking timeframes over 3,000, 4,000 years, and things aren't going to be
the same over that time frame.
And so it gets really difficult to try to piece this back together.
But here's what we know.
In ancient Iran, there was this idea, this belief that everything on the world that
you see was a shadow or reflection of an eternal, pure form or archetype that resided in the
heavens.
Every tree, river, mountain, stone actually was a copy of an eternal tree, river, mountain
that existed in the heavenly realm.
Now, why would they think that?
Not only that, but every city in Mesopotamia, every city was dedicated to a star or constellation.
They did this in Egypt.
Traditionally, there were 42 gnomes or villages up and down the Nile in Egypt, and each village
corresponded to a field in the Book of the Dead.
And that field is a celestial zone that the dead traveled through as they sought the secrets
of rebirth.
And so they would build a village, assign it a star constellation, and so when Pharaoh
sailed down the Nile, he was sailing through the cosmos from village to village.
And so Euripides-Bakai, the play, the initiates of Dionysus have a heavenly vision where they
see two sons and two cities of thieves, each with seven gates.
Well, what are they seeing?
They're seeing the actual sun you see with your eyes, but it's eternal form in the heavens,
meaning that the sun gets its light from another source.
It's eternal source that we don't see.
And so this is radically different.
So how do they come up with this kind of thinking?
And I think in part, I've already mentioned, they would watch a certain star rise on the
horizon or reach at zenith.
And at that same time, they would see certain plants bloom, or that's when you planted or
harvested, or certain animals, birds would fly in certain migratory patterns, or winds
or seasonal aspects.
And they connected the two and they said, that star is causing this plant to bloom.
This is the basis of ancient astrology.
And so somehow that star holds the invisible power over the natural laws of nature that
we see.
This is a powerful stuff, by the way, John, the way you're connecting this.
It really makes perfect sense because we now, now that we're a written society, can compartmentalize.
I'm going to make it in dumb, dumb terms because I'm a man and you're a man, right?
I can't multitask worth a damn, but I can tell you what, in the ancient world to survive,
they multitasked it like they were pros.
I can only imagine the women probably came up with a lot of this stuff too because they
said, oh, this connects to this, this, this, but the men too, this is really cool because
before we get off the village stuff and why you're connecting this, there have been books
written by people who think of astrothiology and they go, I know that it's probably Occam's
razor.
You know, here we go with another literary what seems to be from our perception, the
correct understanding.
And there's no way to prove or falsify what I'm saying here, but there's no way to prove
it either.
The city like Bethlehem and what it means and it might have significance to a celestial
story even in the New Testament.
And if that is the case, which you can't prove because we're so logical and all about like,
well, there was a place, was there a place in Nazareth?
Yeah, there was.
No, there wasn't.
Well, what if, you know, there's something else going on that we can't wrap our heads
around?
So I love what you did there, connecting those two because if we were back then and didn't
know what we know now, of course, the volcano God and the, you know, and the star God would
connect to life and when life would rise, we recognized the stars that were behind why
and we would make those connections.
And we think that's dumb today, but really you don't wake up in the morning and see a
certain star at night.
You look at night sky and realize, you know what, in three weeks from now, approximately,
you know, we're about to have harvest.
I mean, we don't think that way, you know what I mean?
That's correct.
And you're right.
So this is part of the software of the ancient oral mind.
They're analogical thinkers, literate minds are analytical thinkers.
We compartmentalized just as you said, into different categories, we separated out, and
that actually allows us to create really abstract categories, which, you know, leads to microchips
and refrigerators, right?
Oral peoples think analogically, if A is similar to B, there's a relationship, I'm
going to pay attention to that, and I'm going to connect them, okay?
And so, if the star rises on the horizon at this time, and you know, I have two weeks
to plant my harvest, then that star is the harvest star, or the planting star, and there's
another star that's a harvest star, right?
And so, and therefore, the power of fertility and planting is in that star, the power of
the harvest and the growth and the fecundity is in the other star.
And so, and then they start assigning religious identifications, as in, well, no, wait a second,
if that star causes this plant to grow, maybe that star is associated with resurrection.
And maybe if I analogically bring, you know, richly copy the rising of that star in a ritual,
that'll help me plant my soul in the next life, and then I go through the cycle where
I get resurrected in the next life.
So they're analogically copying these things, but now, so here's the problem though, Derek.
What I've just said, they had a very sophisticated metaphysic connected to this that no one can
reconstruct.
Right.
And it's very easy to sit down, and most of our textbooks are this way.
They say, well, you know, the mystery religions are, you know, it all comes from personifying
the agricultural cycle.
And one, I'm showing here on this slide, that actually the agricultural cycle was the material
manifestation of a celestial cycle, right?
And so, you know, when we actually read the Pyramid text, no one knows what they mean,
but what we do know is everyone's traveling through the stars to become a star.
They're not traveling through the fields to become a cob of corn, right?
It's all astral imagery, and so, you know, it's the same with the Epic of Gilgamesh.
It's the same with the temples, which are reflections of the macrocosm.
They're bringing down the powers of the eternal world to cosmicize the land in the material
temporal world.
All right.
Real quick, before you move on, because I know you're about to, I was wondering if the
orality of connecting things the way you did, the way you were explaining how they connect,
I wonder if that found its way into writing, chiasic structures.
It appears there's an orality to chiasm or the chiasic literary structures utilized by
writers where they would connect, you know, one thing, and you might not hear it for three
or four sentences, and then they connect it again in almost like a poetic, almost like
there's a sequence to it, you know, a heartbeat to the literary device being used there in
a chiasic way.
I don't know.
Well, you know, actually, so the writers of the Bible, gosh, they're geniuses.
So some of the stuff they do with the text, and maybe we'll get into it tonight.
I've already blown my timeline.
I'm trying to get this in under an hour and a half.
Please, go ahead.
Go ahead.
Most of this is not part of my presentation, so I've got to move on, but I think you're
right that, you know, just to add to that, I'm talking about the foundations of astrology,
and I think astrology as a science emerges sometime in the middle to early third millennium
BCE, and what happens there is it's this oral way of thinking, this oral cosmology
wed to the new invention of writing, because the Mesopotamian astronomical priests had
a word for the constellations.
They were star writing, and they were literally the writing of the gods that if you could
read would foretell the future.
If that star foretells when this plant needs to be planted and harvested, then this other
star just might foretell whether the king wins the battle or not.
I mean, again, we don't think that way, but analogical thinkers think that way, and now
that they have this new tool of writing, they begin overlaying that on the stars and constellations,
and now everything is a written message, and this turns into a formal science.
The academy is the ancient temple priest cult, and they're all trying to read the writing
of the gods using astrology, and what was astrology?
It was a way to manage the state, so we even get ancient astrology wrong, and it wasn't
birth charts.
No, they were actually trying to manage the state to try to get everything in the city
state to match what the cosmos was doing in its annual cycle.
If you could do that, you would have a powerful city state, your crops would never fail, your
king would be glorious in battle, so they were just trying to line everything up to
the cosmic cycles and trying to interpret that.
And so, bottom line is, let me move on.
Dreamtime, that's the aborigines of Australia.
They have a tradition where all people are related to the stars.
People come from the stars.
This, by the way, is a huge Native American tradition.
The tribes descend from the star world.
You know, the hope, I don't have time for it, the hope, whenever a newborn baby is born,
they recognize that the soul in that infant just came from the star world, so they'll
take the newborn and put it in a completely dark room, no light, for 20 days.
Only the mother and a couple of women can attend the baby, because the baby is adjusting
from the pure realm of the star world to the material realm where it's a tough life.
You have to get up the next morning and go on a buffalo and find some plants to eat,
and you know, it's a tough life.
And so, there's this sort of beautiful symmetry where everything, starting with the human
being, belongs in the star realm, and the life is preparing yourself to return to the
star realm.
All right, so we get the same, the Iroquois, Native Americans believed in a race called
the Angwe, which are star people who manage the plants and every material thing you see
on the earth.
Well, this reminds, this last example, Plato's allegory of the cave, this is another reflection
of the same kind of thinking where Plato says that, you know, all of our human experiences
is like we're sitting in a cave and everything we see is really just a shadow on the wall,
and the reality of it exists behind us in the true heavenly world where the realm of
pure forms, and we're just looking at the shadows, and he actually is quite literal
about this in his book Phaedo, Phaedrus, Phaedrus ascends to the heavens where he sees the
true heaven and the true earth and all the true pure forms.
And so, what we're dealing with then is a cosmology where reality exists in the heavenly
world, and everything we see here is a shadow, is a copy, and in order to sort of maximize
the fertility and the creativity and the potentiality in this world, we're going to try to copy
the stellar cycles or the star world in our culture, okay, and in our religion.
All right, so now the question is, do we find this kind of pattern at all, whether it be
the oral template of cosmology, mythology, ritual in temple, whether it be oral cosmology
in the eternal forms or archetypes in the heavenly world, do we find this at all in
the creation story of Genesis, because if it's there, then we're looking at a fingerprint
of the oral tradition, because once they write it down, most of the stuff disappears.
I mean, how do you write that stuff down?
When you write a myth down, you're just writing a narrative in everything that's attached
to it, the rituals, the temple, the agricultural cycle, and all these secret religious aspects
to it, none of that gets written down, right?
And so, do we find any of this in the creation story?
And it turns out, actually, yes, we do.
So I'm just going to quickly blow through this.
You know the seven days of creation, Derek, right?
Day one, the foundations of the universe are laid with the statement that Yahweh makes
for Elohim, and that is, let there be light, right?
Now, have you, when is the sun, moon, and stars created, do you remember?
The fourth day.
That's right, the fourth day.
So if we have to wait till day four for the sun, moon, and stars to be created, which,
by the way, is where we get all our light, then what is the light on day one?
Right.
Right?
It's not the light of the sun, moon, and stars, so what other light is there?
Well, that's thinking very modern and materialistically, but in the ancient world, there is a eternal
light above the sun, moon, and stars, and it's this eternal light that the sun, moon,
and stars get their light from.
They've reversed it, right?
So that's not the way we think, but it turns out that's what's embedded in the creation
story.
So day one, let there be light.
Day two, by the way, you know, Elohim lays the foundations in the universe by sparking
the centella, the light of the universe, the eternal light of the universe, and by verbalizing
it, let there be light, the idea, the spoken word, the idea that the universe is created
by the word John one, in the beginning was the word, and the word was God, and the word
was God.
That's a very old idea that goes into Egypt, right?
The Shabbat, the stone, Memphite theology, but Todd creates the universe by uttering
the God word, right?
And so this is millennia before, well centuries before Christianity, some scholars would argue
millennia before Christianity.
All right, so day two, we have this interesting thing, the waters above and the waters below
are separated.
And again, most of our textbooks, still in modern academia and biblical studies, tell
us the waters above are the rain clouds, and the waters below are the oceans or the
salt waters, and this is how they conceived of the universe.
Well I just went over that actually the water, the rain clouds have an eternal archetype
in the star world, and the oceans have an eternal archetype in the star world.
And so what is it?
Is it the rain clouds and the oceans, or is it a firmament beyond this world?
Day three, the first dry land appears out of the waters.
All right, so then we get the next three days.
And there's a parallelism that exists here that hopefully you can see.
Day one, there is light created, but day four, the sun, moon, and stars are created.
Day two, waters above and below are created, but day five, the birds and fish or the material
existence of the above and below are created.
Do you see that?
Yeah.
First dry land on day three, but all the living things on the dry land, the material existence
of the dry land, occurs on day six.
In other words, the first three days are the eternal archetypes of creation, and the next
three days are the material manifestations of creation.
So this is an echo of that old time cosmology, where everything existed in the star world.
Now, yes, the Hebrew scribes have altered it a bit, but you can see, yeah, actually,
the imprint is still there.
And then of course, day seven, we have God who rests after the six-day creation cycle,
but the Hebrew word for rest really should be reside.
He resides over his creation because now he's not taking a nap.
He is residing in his temple, which is the microcosm of the macrocosm he just created.
Now suddenly, this links us to that opening of the year festival in Egypt, where Osiris
resides in his temple at the rising of the star series, the inundation of the Nile, as
the world is recreated.
Yahweh resides in his temple at the first day of the year, we'll get into that, as the
society renews their covenant with Yahweh by reciting their creation story.
Any questions?
No.
That was the chaiastic structure I was kind of referencing that earlier.
That was on point, though.
Hey, your screen's covering part of my quote.
Hopefully I can remember it.
All right, so that's point one about the creation story.
The sequence actually has a parallelism in it, which kind of shows us that there probably
was an original oral cosmology that we've talked about.
Now we've got something else that I think is really interesting.
In Plato's Tameas, there's this dialogue between an Egyptian priest and Salon.
He's one of the founding fathers of Greeks, one of the ancient wise men of Greece.
He supposedly lives sometime around 700 BCE.
And the dialogue is really interesting, because the Egyptian, are you familiar with it at all,
Derek?
The Egyptian priest, he basically says, oh, you Greeks, you're such young foolish children.
You think that you're all that.
You are at the end of a very long history that you've entirely forgotten.
Is this the Atlantis reference?
Yeah.
Okay.
So it starts getting into that, but this conversation specifically, the Egyptian priest says, look,
the creation collapses over long periods of time.
Things that the creation is destroyed.
And here we have the quote, there have been, and I can't read it, there have been and continue
to be many disasters that have destroyed human life in many kinds of ways.
The most serious of these involved fire and water.
So the priest is saying periodically, there are great cataclysmic floods and great cataclysmic
fires that level civilization and people have to start over.
And what's interesting is he actually gives a date.
He says, so long the last time the great cataclysm happened was 9,000 years before your time.
Now, you know, where's the Egyptian priest getting this?
And of course, modern scholars are arguing over this.
Some of them say it's a mistranslation.
It's not 9,000 years.
But you know, it says 9,000 years, right?
So you know, that's 9,700 B, the end of the last ice age, right, Egyptian priest is saying,
you know, 9,000 years ago, there used to be a mighty civilization in Greece, but it was
weighed laced, weighed, laid waste.
And so just now you're starting to eat your way back up out of the pothole, right?
So he's talking about these large cycles of creation, destruction, recreation that go
through flood, global floods and global fires or, you know, worldwide floods, which to them
would be everything they knew, right?
So that's a Plato's to Mayus 22 C.
Now, so what, you know, how far did that cosmology extend?
Well, it's coming from the Egyptian priest, which means that the Egyptian, the Egyptians
had this cosmology, right?
And by the way, that dialogue, the Egyptian priest recites the myth of Phaeton, which
is the Greek chariot driver.
You know, he goes to the house of the sun and says, I want to drive the chariot, the
solar chariot, and, you know, Helios is his father and Helios says, you really shouldn't
do that.
I promise you can do anything, but please don't ask for that, because you're not strong enough
to control the solar chariot and Phaeton said, no, no, give it to me.
And so he drives the solar chariot and he can't control it and the sun creams to close
to the earth and it burns and it creates too far away from the earth and it freezes and
floods, right?
Here, here are these creation cycles, right?
And, and so finally, everyone is complaining that this guy is killing everyone on earth.
So Zeus takes out a thunderbolt and kills, kills the chariot driver, he falls to the
earth.
And what's interesting is the Egyptian priest recites this myth.
It's a Greek myth, but he says, oh, we've, we have this myth.
The problem is, is we do not recognize this myth in any Egyptian writing, right?
And they'll have different names, the Horus and Set and Osiris, but we can't, you know,
we can't figure out where it is in the Egyptian writing, which tells us either we haven't found
it or there are aspects to Egyptian writing and mythology that we're totally clueless
about.
I think it's both because we are totally clueless about it.
But again, what's really interesting is the Egyptian priest says, you think this is, you
know, a myth of the chariot driver and the sun, but really it's about the declination
of bodies that orbit the earth, that move around the earth.
And so it's, it's tracking long time steller cycles and, you know, that's an eye opener.
That's like finding Beckley Tepe, right?
You get this little hint in the dialogue of Plato that the Egyptians are tracking, you
know, stellar cycles apparently for 9,000 years, you know, where, where's this coming
from?
What, what are they doing?
Well, again, you know, academics will argue and conspiracy theorists will argue.
The truth is we don't know what to do with it.
But the bottom line is the earth goes through creations, floods and fires.
What turns out almost all ancient societies also had a flood story.
They all had a creation story.
As far as we can track, almost all of them had a flood story.
And it was the American folklorist Alan Dundee's who noted that the worldwide flood stories
are almost always associated with the respective creation stories in a culture.
In other words, wherever there was a creation story, a flood story was associated with it.
Right?
And so what is going on there?
And do we find this in the Bible?
It's the Noah's flood, a reflection of the creation story.
So here's what I'm going to do.
I'm going to show you, I'm going to blow through this as pretty quickly, okay?
Your viewers, I've got all this power pointed.
They can look up the scripture references, but I'm just going to show intertextual comparisons
between the creation account and the flood account in Genesis to show that, in fact,
the two stories are the same story, okay?
So let's do this.
Creation account, Genesis, chapters one and two, flood account, Genesis, chapters six
through nine, we begin.
By the way, this isn't an exhaustive list.
This is just what I pulled out of the hat when I put this together, right?
There are a lot more comparisons to make.
Genesis one, six and seven, the waters above and below are separated, preparing for the
first dry land to appear in Genesis seven, eleven, when the flood occurs, the same verbiage
is used.
The waters above and below commingle.
It's a reversal of the creation, but it's the same verbiage, the same imagery as the
waters above and below are used, one, to create the world, two, to destroy the world.
Genesis one, two, spirit moves upon the water, this engender engenders the life and fecundity
in the cosmic waters.
Genesis eight, nine, Noah sends a dove upon the waters.
The whole point of this is Genesis one, nine, the first dry land appears out of the waters.
Genesis 11, the dove returns with a leaf indicating that the first dry land has appeared out of
the waters, right?
These are parallel motifs, point for point, down each story.
Genesis one, eleven, vegetation, animals, man are created.
Genesis eight, sixteen through nineteen, Noah lands and he releases all manner of life,
vegetations, animals and man upon the world.
Genesis one, twenty-eight, God commands Adam and Eve to multiply and replenish the earth.
Genesis nine, one, the exact same language, God commands Noah to multiply and replenish
the earth.
All right, so here are just a few parallels to show, Derek, that the flood story in Genesis
is a mirror image of the creation story in Genesis.
So what is going on there?
Well, first off, we know in all other cultures, the flood and creation stories are linked.
And so, yes, that's true of the Hebrew, the Israelite account, it's true of the biblical
account.
But then, you know, as Plato says, there's also a destruction of fire.
Do these links continue with the story of Lot and the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah?
And it turns out, yeah, they do.
So let's track those down.
So now we're going to go with the flood account and we're going to compare it to Lot's account.
And it turns out, Genesis six, five, evil fills the world by which God says, enough
of this, I'm going to destroy the world, Genesis 1820, Sodom and Gomorrah is filled with evil
and God says, enough of this, I'm going to destroy the cities.
God vows to destroy the world, Genesis six, seven, God vows to destroy the cities, 1821.
The exact same verbiage is used in Genesis seven and 19, rain floods the earth and fire
rains down from the heavens on the cities.
The parallels are meant to be seen.
Right, obviously.
And so, Genesis seven and 13, only known as family are saved, Genesis 1915, 16, only
Lot and his family are saved.
And then here is one comparison that I think is really interesting.
And by the way, I don't know what to do with it, but in Genesis nine, after Noah, you know,
the ark lands on Mount Ararat, he releases the animals, the world is renewed, recreated.
That's the purpose of the flood story in part.
And then we get this really interesting scene where Noah becomes drunk and he collapses
in his tent and his sons walk in, they see his nakedness, they cover him up and then
Noah wakes up and realizes that someone saw his nakedness and covered him up.
So he curses the child that covers him and blesses the other children.
Okay, well, what's that all about?
Good question.
But then we have a parallel scene with Lot.
So Lot escapes Sodom with his two virgin daughters.
Remember there's that whole scene where the people of the city want to take the angels
that have come to Lot and do whatever they want to do with them.
And Lot says, no, these people are under my protection.
You can take my daughters instead.
Right, you can rape them all you want.
So this is, you know, this is really, it's odd and the text doesn't explain that.
It just states it as a matter of fact, but Lot is meant to be a foil to Abraham.
So there's an internal logic to what's happening here.
But Lot becomes drunk because his daughters think that the whole earth is destroyed.
This is a echo of the flood narrative where the whole earth is destroyed.
Lot's daughters leave Sodom and Gomorrah and they think all the earth is destroyed.
No one's left to repel the earth.
And so they get their father drunk and impregnate themselves with him.
And so there's irony there.
He offers his daughters to the mob and they refuse.
And in the end, he's the one that impregnates his own doctors.
I mean, it's brilliant irony that the scribes are purposefully embedding in there.
So it's almost an ancient version of Shakespeare going on there.
This literally goes back to Genesis 3, 2 with Adam being naked.
Boom!
Right, right.
And so exactly.
So both of these are a parallel to the creation account where Adam and Eve are naked.
The serpent says, eat of the fruit of the knowledge of good and evil.
Eve does.
She causes Adam to do.
They realize they're naked.
So they close themselves and then God shows them and says, who told you you were naked?
And he offers a curse and a blessing.
So that's the point.
We have the same motif in the creation story.
It's repeated in the flood story and it's repeated in the fire story.
And so we have these parallels running between all these stories, which are really interesting.
So now the question is, why is that?
So there's a couple explanations.
One explanation is, well, maybe the Hebrew writers just decided to parallel these stories
in this way, the way they wrote them.
Let's just make these stories copies of each other.
The other explanation is, the origin of the stories were copies of each other that was
retained in the oral tradition.
So when the scribes wrote them down, they retained it, even though they modified each
story, but they kept the parallelisms in there.
And I think that's probably the accurate answer.
Originally, the creation, the flood, the fire all belonged to the ancient Cosmo vision
of the Israelites.
Okay.
And so then these stories retain basically the parallels and copies of each other.
But now, if you remember this slide, this is the oral tradition, right?
If a story descends from the oral tradition, would we be able to find elements of each
one of these different mediums embedded in the story?
Okay.
We've just gone over some of the cosmology and the narrative itself, which is the myth.
Is there any ritual imagery or temple imagery in the stories?
If there is, then we might be, I mean, this is our tell that this belongs to an ancient
cultic oral tradition, right?
Which by the way, might help us reinterpret the text.
We don't have to interpret it as a literal newspaper editorial.
The earth is 7,000 years old, right?
This is a completely different cosmology and a completely different epistemology.
So maybe we should just step back and say, you know, we don't have to go there, right?
Well, it turns out, yes, turns out those fingerprints are in the text.
So I thought I'd point those out.
First let's start with the creation story.
And I've already mentioned this in our last podcast, Eric.
If you compare the creation account of Genesis one and two with the account where Yahweh
tells Moses in Exodus chapter 40 to construct the tabernacle.
This is the first time the temple is built in the Mosaic era.
Okay.
If you compare these two accounts, what do you find?
Well, actually, here's what you find.
Day one, Genesis count the foundations of the cosmos are laid.
Step one of the erection of the tabernacle, the posts and the stakes and the foundations
of the tent are laid.
Okay.
That seems pretty simple.
Day two, the firmaments, the waters above and below are divided.
Step two, you divide the Holy of Holies from the rest of the temple via the veil.
You place the Ark in the Holy of Holies.
So this literally is dividing the sacred space, the firmament above and the firmament below.
Day three, the first dry land appears and the fruit of the earth appears.
Step three, you insert the tables.
So the Holy of Holies is called the Debeer and the chamber outside of the Holy of Holies
is called the Hey Cal.
There's a veil that separates them.
When you step through the veil, there are two cherubim that are in the Holy of Holies,
that guard the Holy of Holies.
There's a throne and there's the Ark of the Covenant and it has been argued in the earliest
temple traditions, the menorah or seven-tiered candlestick was in the Holy of Holies.
In later times that gets put in the Hey Cal and the chamber outside of the Holy of Holies.
So step three, in erecting the temple, you place offering tables in the Hey Cal.
This is the chamber outside of the Holy of Holies.
And on the table, you place bread.
This is offering bread, but it's not the offerings of sacrificial animals.
It's the offerings of the fruit of the earth.
And so it's a parallel to day three, where the first dry land appears and the fruit of
the earth appears.
Day four, sun, moon and stars are created.
Step four, after you place the table and the bread, is you light the candlestick and the
lamps in the temple.
Now it's dark in there.
Why don't you do that right up front?
Right?
Why don't, as soon as you put the Ark and the veil up and you separate the Holy of Holies
from the Hey Cal.
It's dark.
Why don't you light the lamps then, right?
Why do you have to put the tables in and put the bread in and then light the lamps, right?
Well, actually, they're just following the sequence of the creation days.
That's why.
Right?
And so day five, life in the air and waters.
Step five, you burn the incense, which is representative of the life in the air.
And you slay the sacrificial animals, okay?
Day six, you create the animals.
There's a little overlap there between step five and day six and humankind is made on
day six.
Step six, the priests are anointed to become high priests so they can enter into the Holy
of Holies.
Day seven is a day of rest where God resides in this temple.
Step seven, after all that happens, the cloud of Yahweh appears over the temple where God
resides in this temple.
Bottom line is then, is this, when you compare the creation account to the construction of
the temple account in Exodus 40, what do you get?
You get two parallels of each other.
So I would think, Derrick, you would stop at this point and say, what's the creation
account about?
Is it about the creation of the world or is it about the creation of the temple?
And is the creation of the temple a, you know, that's a microcosm of the macrocosm, so maybe
it's both.
But the Israelites didn't separate them.
In any case, this has nothing to do with 7,000 year old earth or dinosaurs or any of that.
We are now entering into the sacred cult of the Israelites.
And by the way, also in chapter 40, we're told this happens on the day of the new year.
This is the exact same thing that's happening in that Egyptian festival of the opening of
the year.
It's the day of the new year where they are celebrating the creation story, the inundation
of the waters over the fields, and the death and rebirth of Osiris.
In the Hebrew account, it's the day of the new year.
They erect the temple.
They are literally acting out the creation account by building the temple and anointing
the priest.
Okay.
And so we have these parallels that are going on.
So before you move on, there's a few ways to interpret this that I've heard.
Some people will speculate based on these parallels that the Genesis one is technically
an allegorical code, if you will, for literally just talking about the mosaic temple built
by the in the time of Moses.
So technically everything prior to Moses that we find is all just an allegory or a symbol
of later things in Israel's history.
There's a lot of people interpret it this way.
So they look at the temple and they see these parallels and they go, wow, well, guess what?
Genesis one is, it's the temple at Mount Sinai.
It is Israel's temple.
Now I'm open to that.
I'm open to this already being a temple that's there, that this is initiating its temple language.
But to devoid that from the reality of the world around them, as above so below the principles,
like you said, on not being able to disconnect those, I think you can't just throw out the
cosmology of in some sense, we're not talking ex nihilo here either.
We're not trying to say out of nothing, God spoke, OK, but it has this implication of
creation to the actual material world that we do see around us and above and so forth.
And that to me is a careful reading is saying it's both, not saying, oh, this is really
a code, wink, wink, only about the temple, which has no relation to any, they didn't
think God really created heaven and earth and everything in it and animals and men and
all that.
No, it's really just a secret code for mosaic creation of the temple.
And they called that the creation.
So technically there is places where you can find where the mosaic creation is the temple
and God's people, Israel and such, any cause of the creation.
But is it only that because then you start running into problems in my opinion, you redefine
things like what death means when Adam dies.
And this is a common tool that's used by a group of theological minded people such as
myself called full preterist.
I had to stop here to kind of give you something on why this is important.
They don't really have this in the back of their mind.
They want to be theologically correct to make sure the Bible is harmonized to the end.
And what they've done is they said, well, when God said in that day, you eat of the
fruit, you'll surely die.
He wasn't talking physical death because they would have died that same 24 hours.
That's how they define it.
Instead of saying now he is now mortal rather than immortal.
And that's the way I look at it.
But I used to look at it the way they look at it.
And one of the things I don't think the deep human normal thing to think about is death
is something we all encounter.
And if you don't think they had a story on why death is the literal physical death,
why it exists, and that they had a hope for something beyond that in this story, then
I think you're missing the point.
What they've done is they redefined the term.
They say death and no, it's an allegory for spiritual death or covenantal death or something
where they just weren't right with their covenant with God, not physical death.
But to me, in my research so far, as I've left that movement and began to start looking
bigger, just like there's a creation account to all worldviews, there's an explanation
behind death for many of them as well.
And a hope for something beyond or something like that.
That's kind of like the rabbit troll that happens.
If you think Genesis one is only talking about the mosaic covenant at Mount Sinai, only.
Not saying it wasn't written around that time.
It wasn't incorporating the actual temple there.
But creation itself, as we have in a sense understood, not out of nothing necessarily.
Maybe they did have that idea, but it's not what I'm implying.
I guess what I'm saying is like John, John Walton, I'm sure you've heard of him.
Oh yeah.
You know, the mode in which creation is active.
See the guys will say Adam is Abraham or Adam is Moses.
This is how far the interpretive method goes for them.
They say everything priors in allegory to something later in history in Israel's history
and the Adam is actually the one with the law, knowledge of good and evil, which would
be probably Moses or they would say it's Abraham.
And they go so far as to go all the way when Paul says from one man, all the nations of
the earth.
Well, wink, wink from one man Abraham, all the nations, 12 tribes of the land.
That's how far they interpret things.
So I just, I wanted to mention that to you to kind of give you why I think your method
of saying it's both is important.
They couldn't disconnect it and just say it was just this.
There was a bigger picture in their mind, as well as a microcosm, the macrocosm.
All right, I'm linking this to oral society and oral cosmology.
And so, you know, yeah, so what you're talking about is that's recontextualizing and I'm
recontextualizing it by saying this is how oral societies work.
So this is the matrix in which the early Israelites would have lived.
But you know, look, we have huge lacuna in our text and in our history.
It's fascinating that there's no mention of an afterlife in the Old Testament until the
book of Daniel, right?
And so that mean most scholars say the Israelites didn't believe in an afterlife, right?
The famous Hebraeus Robert Alter, I love reading this translation says, you know, there's a
I think it's the story of Balaam, where Jacob's afterlife is mentioned and in a footnote,
Alter says, well, they didn't have a belief in an afterlife.
So he retranslates the word afterlife is after time.
And he says because they didn't believe.
I find that really hard to believe that there was no belief in an afterlife by the early Israelites.
In fact, I don't believe that I'm with you.
In fact, even if the text doesn't say it explicitly in cases, you've shown enough evidence connecting
it to things like Egypt and other ancient Near Eastern where they did travel a traverse
and after afterlife experience in some way, you know, so I yeah, I we know again, we know
nothing of the actual esoteric rituals that occurred in the Tabernacle in the Temple of
the Israelites. All that we're given, you know, we get the sacrifice, animal sacrifice,
we get the, you know, the sacrificial lamb ritual every year where the sins of Israel
laid upon lamb and it's sent out into the wilderness.
That's all we get.
And a lot of scholars assume that's all there was.
I don't think so, right?
The hope, again, in these ancient oral societies, the most sacred things are never written down.
You know, the most central ritual elements of the Temple would not be recorded ever.
And so we just, there's so much we do not know.
And it's like the Freemasons I heard, like, there's a secret thing that like, if I tell you,
I'm going to have to kill you.
And it's like, I found out later, if I'm not mistaken, someone was like,
it's a handshake.
And I'm like, what the like, who gives a crap about a handshake?
All right, let me just move on.
So look, if there are Temple images in the creation story, and the flood story is a
repetition of the creation story, are there Temple motifs in the flood story?
Right? Well, let's look at that.
Again, I'm just going to fly through this Genesis 622.
Actually, there are only two times in the Torah, all of the Old Testament that's not,
where God explicitly instructs man to build something, to do something.
And that is his instruction to Noah to build the ark and his instruction to Moses to build
the tabernacle.
And it turns out that there is an execution formula in the Hebrew that is used in both
accounts that are identical.
When Noah finishes the ark, I should have read this before I did the podcast,
but it goes something like, and Noah finished the ark, he did all that God asked him to do.
And then in Exodus 40, the exact same verbiage is used in Moses finished the tabernacle.
He did all that God asked him to do.
It's a weird grammar that's used, but it's an execution formula.
And scholars have noted they're identical, and therefore the ark of Noah and the tabernacle
of Moses must be related in some way, right?
What turns out they are.
And then, of course, we find that Noah has to take a pair of every animal on the ark,
but then in another account, he has to take seven of every animal on the ark, and they
have to be clean and unblemished.
Well, the clean and unblemished is the sacrificial animals of the temple.
And so now there's a cultic background to the animals in the ark,
because they are the sacrificial animals of the temple.
And so again, this is a motif that the ark is the temple.
So this is really interesting.
We're told in Genesis 717, this is a little bit esoteric,
but the waters covered all the hills and mountains.
And so this is where we get the idea that the flood is a global flood,
and it covers absolutely everything.
But there's a tradition in Jerusalem that the temple mount, that the temple is built on,
it's called Mount Zion, is the tallest mountain in the world.
The problem, of course, is Mount Zion is surrounded by other mountains that are much taller than it.
And so what is happening is it is metaphorically the tallest mountain,
because the temple is the connecting point between heaven and earth.
It is the place where you reach the heavens from the earth,
and that's why it's the tallest mountain, right?
So the whole point of the waters being above all the mountains
is to get the ark above them all.
It's the tallest point that connects heaven and earth.
It's a temple motif.
We do not recognize that.
The ancient writers would have recognized that.
Of course, there's in the legends of the Jews,
the temple was founded over the Apsu,
and Near Eastern Temple ziggurats were all founded over the Apsu.
This really connects to our epic of Gilgamesh,
which is one of the sources for the Noah story in the Bible.
If you're familiar with that,
Gilgamesh goes to the underworld to find the secrets of eternal life,
and he meets Utnapish team,
and he asks Utnapish team,
how do I get eternal life?
And Utnapish team says,
Utnapish team says,
I'll reveal to you the secrets of the gods,
and he tells them the flood story.
And in this story, Utnapish team builds an ark,
which is a seven-storied cube.
Well, a cube isn't a boat that floats in the water.
So what is that?
That doesn't even make sense.
Well, it turns out the ziggurats were a series of stacked cubes,
and some of them were seven layers of stacked cubes,
representing the seven ancient levels of the cosmos.
And so Utnapish team's ark is a temple,
and it's built to travel through the Apsu,
the underworld heavenly waters.
And so we get this cubic imagery that is temple imagery
in the epic of Gilgamesh,
and so returning to the Hebrew temple,
the Holy of Holies is a cube that is built over the Apsu.
According to the legends of the Jews,
there is a hole underneath the Holy of Holies,
which leads to the heavenly underwater waters, right?
Underworld waters.
And so the temple cube,
I mean, I actually have tracked this image of the cube
as the sacred space through multiple traditions in Greece,
Egypt, Mesopotamia, the Bible.
And so it's actually a fascinating discussion
that one day when we talk about the great flood myth
all by itself, we can get into.
Anyway, and so the ark is constructed in three vertical levels.
The temple is constructed in three horizontal levels,
Holy of Holies, Hey Cal, Outer Court,
and these are the three tiered universe.
And so the bottom line is there is tons of temple imagery
in the flood story, just as there's tons of temple imagery
in the creation story.
So again, they're layers of each other.
Heaven, earth, and sea.
Heaven, earth, and sea.
So now is there any temple imagery in the story of Lot?
Can we track it there?
And it turns out this is where it ends because the story,
I mean, Lot is used as a foil.
So we only get one motif in the whole story.
Abraham goes to Lot.
They have so many animals and servants
that they both can't live in the same place.
And so Abraham says, you pick.
You can live in the valleys or you can live in the mountains.
And of course, the mountains are associated with God
and the sanctuary, right?
And so Lot says, well, I'm going to live in the valleys
by the cities.
And the whole story is an anti-urban pulmaic, right?
The ancient Israelites were herdsmen
and they hated the cities.
They thought they were wicked.
And so Lot chooses the cities.
We're told that he pitches his tent towards Sodom,
whereas Abraham pitches his tent towards the altar
he's built for Yahweh.
That's our one temple motif in that story.
And it's a very brief.
And but what it shows is Abraham stays in the highlands.
Close to the Lord with the altar he has built for Yahweh,
whereas Lot goes to the cities.
And sure enough, when the angels come,
Lot meets him at the city gate, which is a reversal.
You don't meet the angels at the temple gate.
You meet them at the city gate.
And Lot knows this is a terrible thing to do
because they're not safe.
He thinks the men of the city will defile the angels.
And it turns out that's what they want to do.
And so the only way Lot escapes the destruction of Sodom,
you know, of the hellfire that rains down
is to return to the mountain, return to the sacred sanctuary.
That's what's implied, but it's very subtle.
So look, I think I'm just going to end my presentation there
because I don't know how long we are, but we've already,
we've already surpassed what I promised that it would be.
Yeah, I think literally any second the Lord's returning at this point.
That's how long it's...
No, I'm just showing that we have these parallels
in the book of Genesis.
I am connecting them to the oral tradition
of cosmology, mythology, ritual, and sacred center.
Those hints are all retained throughout the cosmological stories of Genesis.
And so now the question is, how do we reinterpret them as a result?
And, you know, we can save that for another conversation,
but I'm sure your audience can figure out...
The one thing we can't do is take it literally, right?
But that doesn't mean there's not an enormous amount of beauty.
The way the Hebrew scribes actually record these stories is quite elegant.
And so I'm just going to end with this quote from my book, Mythos and Cosmos,
where I say, what we think about the universe, its origin and structure,
turns out to be the box that contains our imaginations.
This point cannot be overstated as civilization's ultimate framework
of cultural imagination is its own cosmology.
So there's a lot to be said about that.
The ancient Israelites built their cosmology around, you know, their temple,
their creation story, their sacred cycle, their agricultural cycle, if they grew,
you know, and so there was layers of religion and politics and economics and agriculture
all within it.
But at the same time, there is an elegant metaphysics that's contained in there.
Yeah, I'm probably not going to get into it because my 90 minutes as well as well up.
So that's what I've got for you tonight, Derek.
Any questions?
That was wonderful, brother.
No, actually, everything I tracked with you on, that was really well done.
You made me want to go and actually try and find more parallels on purpose.
You know what I mean?
Because they're there.
I know they're there.
There's a lot.
There's a lot.
Yeah, no, there's a lot.
So anyway, it's, you know, look, there are a lot of believers.
I don't think notice or even care, but this stuff is really interesting.
And so, you know, maybe if we do another, we can talk about the great flood myth in the
Near Eastern tradition.
I promise you, I've got stuff that is new.
No other scholar has tackled it.
And so it's really fascinating.
So, you know, until next time,
yeah, Derek.
Yes.
Bless you, brother.
Dr. John Nightlund.
Well, everybody, go check out the book down in the description.
And like I said, he always brings power points, good visual representation.
He knows what he's talking about.
Show him some love.
You guys go down in the description, get the book.
And don't forget, we are Mithition.
Join our Patreon.
We are Mithition.
Mithition.
