So why is Jesus the Christ? Because he's dead and forsaken on the cross by God and all of his
followers. If you can't even call Jesus good, then you're certainly not going to call him God.
Peter's confession of Jesus as the Christ is a false confession inspired by Satan.
People would say, well, what do you mean forgotten? It's in my New Testament.
Nobody's forgotten it. And I'm telling you they have. And here's why.
Welcome back to MythVision. Ladies and gentlemen, we're talking about why
the Gospel of Mark was forgotten. Pay attention closely as Dr. James D. Tabore and I discussed
this matter and there is an extensive, you could call it college level course where we're actually
discussing the entirety of the Gospel of Mark. And with that being said, Dr. James Tabore,
I really appreciate you joining me today. Why was this Gospel forgotten? And does it carry
problems for Christians? People would say, well, what do you mean forgotten? It's in my New Testament.
Nobody's forgotten it. And I'm telling you they have. And here's why. People start reading
the New Testament. They read Matthew. They get to Mark. I did this as a kid trying to read the Bible.
And it's like, well, I've already read this. It's a cut down version kind of of Matthew like a
preces or a summary. And then I go into Luke, oh, a lot more new stuff there. And then John,
you know, that's the main spiritual Gospel. What happens to Mark? People quote Matthew all the time.
They quote Luke, Mark, no, scholars know this, but I'm talking about many average Christians.
Mark gets left behind. And part of the reason is pretty obvious. I mean, there's no birth story.
Other than the first line, which actually is not part of the Gospel story, but it's kind of a title,
the beginning of the Gospel of Jesus Christ's Son of God. Then you start, you even know who Jesus is.
It says he came from Nazareth to be baptized by John the baptizer.
And then you follow it on through. Also at the end, who would end a Gospel with the empty tomb
of Jesus? Easter morning, women come to the tomb. It's open. It's empty. And there's a young man,
not an angel by the way, a young man. He's sitting in there and he says he's not here. He was taken
away or taken up literally. He was taken up. He's not here. And they flee from the tomb.
Fear, astonishment had come upon them and they said nothing to anyone. And how can there be a
Gospel if you say nothing to anyone? So clearly, as you know, Derek, and we've talked about this,
there are three other endings that were later tacked on by pious Christian scribes thinking,
well, we can't just end it like this. This is an embarrassment. And we got the birth stories in
Matthew and Luke so we can go at those. But Mark is kind of a problem child. You know,
the proverbial redheaded stepchild, like what are we going to do with this child? And I like redheaded
children. I have one. But just the idea that where does this belong? And yes, it is a problem,
not only how it begins and how it ends in this non-Gospel way, but when you begin to see the
figure of Jesus within Mark, he does all these things that don't seem to fit. Like he says,
he's asked, why are you teaching in parables and riddles to the crowds? He goes, because I don't
want him to be, I don't want him to understand or be converted. What kind of Jesus is this?
And a guy calls him good, good rabbi, he says. And Jesus says, why are you calling me good? There's
none good but God. So what happens historically is that Matthew and Luke, that's their story. It is
the Jesus story. That's why we're calling it creating Jesus. Mark creates Jesus. He gives us the only
Jesus story that we have, really. And they use it, but they're not happy with it. And I would say
they don't just use it, they overwrite it. I used to say rewrite it, and now I'm saying they overwrite
it. And as they literally want to cover things that are in the first story, because they're not
adequate. The failure of the disciples, Luke takes that totally out. How is it that, I mean,
to me, Derek, this is the most shocking thing. Peter finally gets who Jesus is. Remember in
Mark, it's like, who is he? Who is he? Don't know. Who is he? And Peter finally gets it. He goes,
you're the Christ. And Jesus says, get behind me, Satan. In this course, and I teach my students this,
Peter's confession of Jesus as the Christ is a false confession inspired by Satan.
Okay, I'm pausing here because that's kind of shocking. But that's Mark's view. Now for you to
figure out how and why you've got to delve into the Course and delve into Mark. And so we pull Mark
out, you get your own text of Mark. You might have one in a Bible. I don't want you to use the
Bible. I just want you to, it's almost like, hit me with your best shot. Here's Mark. Drop it in your
lap. Read it. Don't assume anything. Let's really see what's there. And then you'll see why it was
forgotten and overwritten because it's not adequate. It's not satisfying to people. It doesn't do the
glory hallelujah Christian believer thing at all. Is it fair to say that the Gospel of Mark is
technically, this is going to sound wild coming from my mouth, but it's technically a heretical
document. If we took it by itself, kind of like the later church fathers, when they're debating
the Christology later, it's almost like the earliest Christology that we find in Paul is
this idea that after Jesus dies, which I know Mark does something different, but it's after his death
that he becomes a son of God. Is it fair to say this is a primitive model that gets, it becomes
heretical to hold to this alone? Oh, for sure. I mean, if you can't even call Jesus good,
then you're certainly not going to call him God. You know, those are two different words.
And also, I would call it an anti-Gospel. If you want to use the word heretical,
heretical implies a lot of things about orthodoxy and later developments, but
look, it's not an easy fit in that. But because of the overwrites of Matthew and Luke,
almost encasing it, and then the triumph of the spiritual Gospel, as they called it, John,
you know, the church fathers, John wrote a spiritual gospel. Then they can tolerate it being there,
but it literally can't stand alone as the story. And yet it was the story. It was the Jesus
story until it was overwritten. So I think it's really important if you're interested in Christian
origins to start with the story. And I would call it an anti-hero tragedy, even anti-Gospel.
In the original, my teacher, Jonathan Smith at Chicago used to say that it's written as a joke,
but he had to define joke as incongruity. That's what humor is. You know, why did the chicken cross
the road? To get to the other side. Well, why is that funny? Because you're not expecting that answer.
So why is Jesus the Christ? Because he's dead and forsaken on the cross by God and all of his
followers. Okay, last scene of Jesus and Mark. So is it heretical? Yes. I mean, it doesn't conform
to later Christian orthodoxy and dogma in any way. And if anything, it's adoptionist,
which is the big heresy of the fourth century. Because Jesus is the one who hears you are my
beloved son at the baptism. And in some versions of Mark, this day have I begotten you, which is
very heretical, because that would imply that Jesus is an ordinary human being, but was chosen
or designated by God, you know, for this special role. But Mark goes further than that. He says,
if you would follow me, you too become part of the suffering servant enterprise that he introduces,
which is really his idea of the secret of the kingdom. So Mark is just, I call it a,
I use Churchill's words, an enigma, enigma, rather a mystery hidden in a puzzle. It really is. And in
this course, we lay that out, it's seven lessons with videos, it's got study sheets, bibliography,
maps, you get a PDF study guide that takes you through it, that becomes yours to use.
It's exactly what I have taught for years with my students. And whatever their background has been
from the most fundamentalist Christian to skeptical non-believers at college kids often are,
I'm telling you, this is the course that was always my most popular course. And it's because
you get so intrigued with the puzzles of the texts. It's like reading a good book or watching
a film where you just can't stop. And it's not what you thought it was. It's like reintroducing
yourself to something that you've never seen before. It sounds like when we recorded it,
of course, I'm thinking of Christians and how we would run to other gospels to make sense of
something that we saw in Mark. And that's the point. It's almost like they want to, like you
said, overwrite so you can come to their gospel instead of listening. And you brought it up,
you've said this many times, but just to emphasize, why do you call me good? There's none good but
God. I've heard Christian apologists over and over and over claim Jesus is Yahweh in Mark,
in the Gospel Mark, our earliest gospel. And of course, they want to argue this throughout the
gospels as well. One of the reasons they'll say they try to interpret this saying, well,
if you're calling me good, you're calling me good because I am God. I've heard Christian
apologists interpret it that way. There's none good but God. Hence, this is why I see why you're
calling me good because you see me as God and I am claiming to be that. This is how they interpret
it. The other thing that they do is they look at things like Jesus walked on water. Who else
hovered on water or kind of, so to speak, walked on water? Yahweh. So, duh, don't you see it?
What would you say to a Christian apologist who's trying to jam Yahweh and Jesus as one and the
same or even some Trinitarian idea, which we don't need to get lost into in the Gospel of Mark?
Well, I think that convoluted series of explanations you give is almost an answer.
I mean, the text is plain. Don't call me good. Only God is good. And he quotes the Shema,
hero is or the Lord our God is one. You shall worship the Lord and him only shall you serve and
so forth. So, Mark is not in that camp. Mark is presenting Jesus as what we call in the Hellenistic
world, a divine man, a divine human that is an extraordinary human that is receiving this measure
of inspiration from God. But the catch is he opens that to anyone who would follow. And so,
it's not some exclusive club. And that's why it doesn't have the virgin birth and the reincarnation
of Jesus, resurrection, appearances and so forth. Because he, I think he does think Jesus
has been apotheosicized or taken up into the heavens. I do think he thinks that,
but he doesn't even emphasize that. He uses the term son of man coming in the clouds of heaven.
That's from Daniel seven. Okay. And everybody quotes it and pulls it out of context and says,
that's the Messiah. And Daniel has asked or Daniel asked rather, what does that mean that
son of man business? And he says, that's the people of God taking over rule authority and power.
So, Mark is actually going with Daniel and arguing that the followers are everybody's divine as Jesus,
not because of some incarnation or pre existence or anything of that nature,
but because they're taking up a way of persecution and suffering against evil.
And that brings the kingdom of God. Mark is also unembarrassingly apocalyptic to the hilt.
There's, you know, Paul, first Corinthians and Mark, Mark 13 and other places. There's no way to
mitigate that failed apocalypticism. I know, Preterist, which you certainly studied and shared,
came from some of that, can try to do it with some sort of 70 AD thing. But yeah, you know,
if you read it together, first Corinthians seven, Mark 13, look, some of you standing here shall
not taste of death till they see the kingdom of God come with power. That's Mark nine, which they
are absolutely expecting the overthrow, the dramatic overthrow of the world powers
in the typical, you know, Jewish apocalyptic manner. But in the meantime, Mark is providing the community
with the way to follow. And what he's concerned about, I think, and what he's against is getting
on the Christian salvation bandwagon. Glory, hallelujah. He's gone in the flesh. He died
first sins and we're going to go to heaven. He just hooked ourselves to him. And he's saying,
look over there. I got a point. Look over there. See the guy dead on the cross. Go join him
if you want to follow. If I, if I may, it's your fault. I'm blaming you for this one. And this is
my final point because there's so much in the course that I hope people actually sign up. Go down
in the description. Don't miss out on this Mark course. I promise you it is amazing and 4k. I
recorded it, edited the whole nine. It's fantastic. Dr. Table, you mentioned 70 AD, you brought up my
peoples, the Preterist. And so I have to, I have to just say, you can see why there's an easy
mistaken conflation because as you point out in this course, it is a post war document that is using
the destruction of Jerusalem as its catalyst. However, that conflation happens because the
language is like, this is a sign. This what is happening in 70 AD is a sign about what is about
to happen. And because of that sign, it isn't the thing that happens and that is what is supposed
to be. It's the sign about what is, it's, it's a sign of what means the end is about to happen.
Does that make sense? Whereas Preterists are conflating it and saying, what happened in 70
is the thing instead of saying because of these signs that you're seeing, including the destruction
Now I would agree with that. And I think, look, what people do when prophecy fails is they
spiritualize it or reinterpret it. They say it was completely wrong. Forget it. I'll be an atheist
or not even delve into that anymore. Or they recalculate. Well, you can't really recalculate
with Mark. And if you want to throw it out and say it's worthless, that's your option. But if
you're going to try to keep it as part of the inspired word of God and the whole kind of Christian
message with all the rest of the New Testament intact, you only have one option. And that is
the option you just outlined is to say, well, yeah, it was talking about the end, but it did come
just not in the way that people have thought it was predicting. So it's a very common strategy
throughout apocalyptic history. You know, Jesus is going to come in 1914. And he doesn't. But he
really did. But he came invisibly. Or the Adventist Jesus is going to come in 1844. And then it was
1845. No, 1843, 1844. He didn't. But he left the heavenly sanctuary and finished the judgment.
And now he's in the vestibule of heaven, ready to return any time. So yeah, this is nothing new.
It was in the ancient world as well as the modern world. I have a term that I kind of coined over
time for preterism. And I don't know if this will make you chuck or not, but I literally
call it the eschatology that is there to save the savior. It's the savior needs saving. So they
literally come up with the best way to make sure he doesn't fail. Language is infinitely flexible.
Think of Christian scientists and Ellen. That would be Eddie, I guess. Mary Baker, Eddie.
Eddie, you can take any ancient text of any religion. And you can take a more literal historical
view. You can take a more metaphorical symbolic view. Language is, by definition, elastic, right?
And so I can read any text. The world is going to end tomorrow, you know, at 12 o'clock. And
then it doesn't. And I can still, without throwing that out, come up with the way of explaining
of what end really means and its significance and so forth. And of course, as you often refer to,
that we call that cognitive dissonance, where your cognition is hitting a wall and it's dissonant.
And you're going to crash and burn. But there's a way that you can think about it that saves you. So
yeah, it is saving the Savior. From really saying something rather foolish that some of you standing
here will not die. And remember who was standing there? Peter, James, and John. I think they're
long gone. And it even leads to that crazy discussion at the end of the Gospel of John. Well,
what about this guy? Was he going to be here? Because he's getting old and they're wondering,
you know, look, well, what if I want him to tarry till I come? It doesn't say he does. Of course,
you got to have an out, right? Otherwise, we'd have this old guy still wandering the earth, right?
Dr. James Taylor, you explain this so well. And I love learning from you. I love working with you.
I hope everybody, for the sake of your own understanding on the Gospel of Mark, we have been
inundated with methodologies on reading the Gospel of Mark, which takes us into this comparison,
harmonizing, contradictory narrative or deal. And we're really missing Mark. Look, I understand,
we're skeptics. I'm a skeptic. I love jabbing at the Bible. I love jabbing at Christianity and
things like that. I was one. But let's be honest, we really should understand what this document
says. And James is trying to bring it back to life, because honestly, it's been buried for 2,000
years. And I hope that you will join me and Dr. Tabor in excavating the body of Mark. Let's dissect
it. Let's see what it's made out of and not get Matthew's tomb and Luke's tomb in the mix. Okay,
that's the best analogy I can paint there. That was pretty gory, but do you have any final words,
Dr. Tabor? Yeah, I would just say that it's, we want you to see Mark as Mark as a literary creation
of great influence that was essentially subsumed and forgotten and marginalized.
So we're kind of recovering something quite important in terms of the history of
world ideas and human thought and religious development and so forth. You could argue that it's
the most influential document in the world, even though nobody's reading it or understanding it,
because of the way it was later used. But it is the original story. Paul didn't give a story.
Mark gives the story, and it remains the story really, even as it gets developed and changed
and pulled into the edifice of Christianity. I like going back, you know, it's always good
as a story and to dig back down. And I like to find things that are buried and forgotten.
So I'll buy into your analogy. Thank you so much, Dr. Tabor. I hope you see you all there.
Sign up today for an in-depth study on the Gospel of Mark with Dr. James D. Tabor.
On the front page, the very introduction, you get an RSV version of the Gospel to go through
this with him, and the Gospel of Mark course guide and maps PDFs the whole nine. To be able to
download and examine this Gospel for yourself, this will help you understand geographic locations
as the Gospel of Mark travels through different areas with Jesus. There's a whole
recommendation for reading deeper and studying this Gospel and understanding it from various
academic point of views. And Dr. Tabor recommended all of these. Now we go into the actual lectures.
There are high quality 4k recording. He is literally teaching you in depth going through
the examination of the text and showing you what it's all about. High, high quality underneath all
you can access the PDFs again in case you missed it in the introduction. And of course there's a
synopsis outline of each of these because we go through the entire Gospel with you. If you've never
sat down and just read the whole Gospel of Mark, in this course will be the first time you'll actually
do that. Highly recommended. This is just course number one. The GM packed it with different
visuals pertaining to the Gospel of Mark. And then here's lecture number two. Same thing.
Every video is 4k. Extremely high quality. You will own this course for life. So for $39.95,
you can't beat it. Go get it. It is well worth every single penny because this is history.
And how they forgot this Gospel is also an interesting thing. They override it. They want
to change it. But there's so many special things that Mark brings out that I highly recommend
people learn in order to understand these differences. GM packed with great visuals,
learning experience is amazing. And as you go through your progress is noted in the left hand
corner. So you can keep going through lecture two, lecture three, lecture four, five, six,
and seven. And all of them are full of information for people to learn and walk away with a much
better understanding of the Gospel of Mark on Mark's terms. That is so important that we emphasize that.
