The biggest lie, the life of the Apostle Paul or Saul from the Book of Acts and the Epistles.
I mean, we can clearly see in the Gospels fictional narrative, but how many scholars take
their time to say, hey, these seven authentic Pauline epistles, we need to reevaluate how
we're looking at these things. Kenneth Humphreys is going to take us down a path. He himself has
visited many of the areas that Paul claimed to have walked, and he himself says this man's
carrying way too much weight on his shoulders to be a historical figure. Something's off here.
I hope you guys enjoy this whole show because I really enjoy him. He always brings a new
insight that I've never understood or looked at things in that angle. He's a good friend of mine.
Hit that like, hit that subscribe button, make sure you guys share this out somewhere,
leave a comment on what you think about this, or if you have something that you can add
to the discussion. Who is the Apostle Paul?
We are Myth Vision. Did you read that paper? It was a friend of mine. He's not a scholar,
by the way. He's just an independent research guy, and he came to a conclusion where he thought
Paul was highly suspicious as a rewrite of something like False Prophet in the Old Testament
kind of stuff. I did reread it, yes, and it was well, very plausible, very plausible,
very plausible. It struck me the writer was himself coming from a Christian perspective,
like a struggling Christian, put it that way. Am I right? Yeah, he was. He's an atheist now.
He still believes that Paul is kind of like, he looks at Jesus and sees Jesus as a celestial,
not the same way that Richard Carrier, so to speak, more like Astro Theology. He thinks that
it's an allegory, it's a mythology, and whoever takes this crap literal, they're missing the point.
And Paul himself, he says, is also a myth. It's a rewrite of Old Testament characters. Every
person in the New Testament is just a copy or a made-up story based off Old Testament characters,
and the Old Testament characters are based off of the sun or the moon or the something.
And so it goes on. Yeah, I hope you press the recall button. I am. Let me get it started.
Do you want me to just go ahead and get it started? We've started already, but yeah, I mean,
there is a very plausible argument that would appeal to any rationalist. If you come from a
faith position, your vision is clouded, of course, all from the beginning, but it makes perfect and
obvious sense from a rational point of view that not only are the stories second, third,
fourth hand, but it is all allegory, trying to make a different theological point. And yet,
you can say, for the simple-minded, you have to make the story, give it a human element,
then they can relate to it. It's a bit like having a romantic subplot in a story about Stalingrad.
If you just showed Stalingrad, people always do much, but if you show a romance within that,
they can relate to the story. So Paul. Paul is our target today. And I figured,
you've actually told us on the last show, you've traveled, a lot of the places they claim
a historical Paul traveled. This guy had to be book who's rich to be able to do the things he's
claimed to do. I'm just going to leave it up to you. You're the scholar. I truly, first of all,
want to say thank you for coming back on the show. And I really want to say thank you for your work.
And anyone who's watching right now, I am omnipresent for the next five minutes. So if you
don't subscribe to his channel, and if you don't go and get his book, okay, Jesus never existed,
and check out his materials. I might end up causing the plagues of Egypt to fall upon you,
just saying. Okay. And nonetheless, if you're not a fan of Kenneth Humphrey, you're not human.
So just go back to Mars. I'm a huge fan of this guy. And I really appreciate this for our new
audience who's never heard of you. They're going to really love your voice if they don't agree
with your ideas. That's fine. They're going to love your voice. That's all that matters.
I'll just stop talking then, from what I'm going to say. Yeah, I mean, Paul is in many ways the
main man. I mean, you could say that the New Testament is essentially about Paul. It's more
about Paul than it is about Jesus. And Paul's sort of either his writings or what's written about him
fills up more of that material than that little fairy tower about Jesus, you know.
So yeah, we should look at him. And yes, okay, you say about following his trips. I have, you
know, for many years now, I haven't completed the whole circuit because it's just not possible
in terms of danger zones and the rest of it. But insofar as that area is accessible, yeah,
and I've really enjoyed it. I mean, you do. Whether it's the claims made about Paul being there,
whether they're fictitious or not, the places themselves are fascinating. I mean,
there is a history there and that I've enjoyed. But it does give, you know, when you visit a place
like Philippi or Corinth or any of the other places, you get some feel. You just get a feel for
that particular time and place. And then you can set against it. You know, you take a city like
Ephesus. You don't do Ephesus, a very impressive city, a major city of the Roman Empire. And then
you try and think, yeah, one day Paul came here and he caused a riot, you know. The whole city was
taken up, you know, infuriated by this man and he had to run away and the rest of it. And you think,
I don't think that is possible. You know, you come out of the harbour area, you see the great,
theatre area, you wander up one street after another, the various temples and what have you,
as a city of perhaps, you know, a quarter of a million people. And some Jewish guy comes into
town and says, I know the truth and you're all wrong. I mean, you know, can you really imagine
that they would have given him the time of day? I mean, that's what you get if you visit these
places. You get a real feel for where this story is coming from. I have a hard time buying it.
I really do. I love what you're doing there because the more I'm studying about pagan
parallels and stuff, we just did a show with Dr. Robert McNair Price and he did like a pagan
parallel one. And it just, you know, it's like, so how really crazy would this idea be when they
had all these gods already that looked very much like this in similar ways? It's not like they
blow their, their gas can go, let's kill this guy. You know, it's like, dude, you're just bringing
another freaking guy like we already have. What's so special? You know, it's not like they're going
to freak out, but I wanted to delve into some issues, you know, and things that you have found
about Paul. You know, one of the things about your YouTube channel that I love is that you
have these episodes where like, you know, this is fraud. Look, it's obvious forgery. It's obvious
lie. It's obvious. And I want to catch Paul red handed. I mean, he claimed to be not a liar over
and over and over. That means he's not a liar, right? Spoiler alert. Spoiler alert. Yeah, not a
liar. Yeah. He does. Yeah. I try and give Paul, if you like, a reasonable space to make all the
Christians writing about him. Give him a reasonable bite to see, okay, let's see if we can go with that.
But the towels become so extraordinary that you only have to run by, hang on. You know,
like they stoned him at Denver or somewhere where he, you know, a purge was it, they stoned him. But
yet the next day he got up and he went off more missionary work. And you think, well, that doesn't
sound like a real person who's stoned to the extent that they thought he was dead. You know,
he must have been seriously hurt. And yet brushes himself off he goes. And you think, yeah, this
is stretching Paul's ability just too far. It easily goes into the miraculous. And when you
not only see that in one story, but in every story, the whole bunch of these stories,
you add up, it adds up to, they're not talking about a real person. They're talking about a
superlative apostle, someone who ticks all the boxes of what he should be, of what a church
trying to give itself some sort of justification in the second century wants to tell people of
how they got to where they were. You know, they're not going to say, this is a new racket we've just
set up in the last few years by this product. No, they're going to, they're trying to establish
a legitimacy. And I think they hang that on this guy called Paul, right? They hang it on Paul. So
he does the whole bit for them. You know, the 12 disciples, well, gosh, they don't get a look
at much to it. We can't follow the, the, the, the, the, the perramulations of them around the world.
You know, they go off all, all these to Persia and Afghanistan and everywhere else where you can't
follow it at all, they get forgotten. It's all about Paul and he writes theology, he
founds churches, he takes the faith to Europe and then he takes it to Rome and of course
then he has the big finish, the martyrdom. The whole thing is just too much, too much
to be believable.
I, you said that in a way, and look, I'm not like I'm well read, okay, I'm just a host
of a show. I do read, I'm just not well read, like I don't have a lot of books under my
belt. And the way that you just said that was very unique. I'm glad that we made this
about this show because I've never thought of it that way. You know, you always hear
scholars get hung up on Seven Authentic and this ridiculous like, I think that Christianity's
ideas rub off a lot on some of the scholarship. And I love what you said there. So for our
audience, correct me if I'm wrong, you're saying what we have is a way of making one
character carry all the weight of what the church went through when it started changing
ideas heading towards a Pauline type of, type of thought process. So it really wasn't
a guy, this is kind of like this movement and how this movement became, in a sense.
Yeah, yeah, that's entirely. Now, was there an initial Paul character behind it all? And
that's interesting point. I mean, I, when I wrote my book, which was some years ago
I didn't come out and say, Paul's as fabricated as Jesus. I didn't want to say that because
I thought, oh, come on. It's easy for someone in the 21st century say they didn't exist.
This didn't exist. There were the other, you know, sort of denial. It's all, you know,
just sounds so negative. It sounds so unscholarly. So I was reluctant to go down that route.
And even now I will concede there may have been someone and there may have been someone
even with the name Paul, although, you know, that's questionable. But what sort of person
and how important was he, you know? Now, I think that in that era, the world was awash
with charlatans, or if you prefer holy men, right? So wash with them. The Roman Empire
had integrated, you know, a vast number of mini cultures with all with their own localized
gods and everyone's in their pitching. And these religions that were coming together
in a more global or pan Roman existence, they, they were competing with each other. So they
stole ideas from each other. They borrowed ideas that worked and dropped the ones that
didn't work. Even within Christianity, there were many variants. You know, there was no
one unified church until it was imposed upon, you know, there were many competing churches.
And, and, and so you've got a situation where a character, perhaps he started, you know, with
the idea of maybe he was a very successful spiritual character, or holy man, or quack,
or fraudster, whatever he was, right, he was successful. Yeah, it sort of, and you, and you
can imagine, well, how could he be successful? Well, you only have to take some examples from
your, your own American background there of evangelical Christianity, where you've had
scams, some of them have been shown in movies, where wired up a preacher, identify somebody
who's suffering, and he gives them the formula, hallelujah, you know, they can walk, they,
you know, they've, they've sold, sold a particular element, and then they pass the plate round
and all the dollars go into it. I mean, yes. So it's a successful business scam, or holy
work. And, you know, Paul could have been such a character that everybody was very suspicious
in that age. And, you know, it was sincerely felt that it was possible to foresee the future.
That's why it became, you know, a very restricted profession, because if someone foresaw the,
they say the future of an emperor, and it wasn't a good future that he would be dead soon, you know,
he was like, it'll be executed for spaking, you know, for that sort of dabbling in magic works.
So, you know, there was a strong belief in that, that, that, that sort of prophecy stuff.
And, and, and, and you can see how, you know, well, experience of people today, you know,
they still check their stars, their horoscopes, it's easy enough, people will always be intrigued
to know, well, you'll have a good day tomorrow, or, or you're going to come into money this week.
You know, people were interested in that stuff. Certainly, they were interested from the point
of view of curing of almonds and their, their illnesses and so on, which is an obvious
marketplace. And it was a marketplace like that. Snake oil salvagement appear, don't they? And,
and their particular magic charm, whether it's Jesus or Zeus or whoever it is, he's the one,
he does the magic, and, and, and you can see how it can get started. Now, okay, so you can start
with something where, well, we don't really know, I would suggest it would probably be Syria, if
anywhere, doubtful, it was Judea as such, you know, probably Syria, where there's a lot more, more
competition between different religious groups. So yes, somebody got started and, and it became,
I think, possible that you wrote something, and then you ascribed it to this person, this person
who's got a bit of a reputation, you know, this is how it, how you present, and you write a small
bit, it might simply be a single page or papyrus leaf indicating a curse or, or a blessing from
whoever God your practice is. So that's how the thing gets started. Now, after that, of course,
you've got the whole needs of Christianity to get Paul to do the bits they need done, do the bits
they need done. So of course, you've got to have the spread of the faith. That's the real, you know,
the story is so attractive, so powerful that, you know, unknown thousands flock to hear this magic
word, a word comes out of Paul's mouth, everybody accepts it, you know, conversions all over the
show. And, and, and so you have the first great myth created that somehow this faith spread across
the world, you know, instead of being just another, you know, Mickey Mouse religion in the corner,
backwater of the Roman Empire, suddenly we have the, the pretense that it was instantly successful,
instantly popular everywhere. And in fact, but if you take the real, real history of the Jews and
how they reacted to Christianity, it was like, who on earth are these people? This is a load of
garbage. We don't accept it. So of course, the Jews are hard hearted, aren't they? They won't accept
any of this stuff. So, you know, so he moves on to the more gullible pagans, who perhaps were,
were not quite as canny as the Jews. It's interesting what you're saying. I wanted to ask
you and I know there's no way to nail down all these. But in terms of dating, Paul, how do you
look at that? I mean, do you even try or do you say, well, look, there could have been like,
like, are there any that you think might be authentic, or you really not even really go into
all that and just say, look, we don't even have authentic to begin with. And if there were authentic,
they probably were embellished. Because we have like hand downs, you know, of these writings and
rewrites of these writings. What are your thoughts on the dating of Paul? Because I know they say
the seven are in the 50s or 60s. And, and, and I'm like, I have a hard time because even in the
authentic some like first Thessalonians four, you have Paul saying that the wrath of God is coming
on the Jews like he knows something he should not. Yes, yes, you do. Yes, you do. I think that's a
good giveaway to the fact it was it was post 70 post post the color, you know, the renaissance of
Judaism. Yes, I think that's likely. I'm not hung up on on on dating the epistles. And it's like,
as if it was holy grail, you know, we've got a document and we, you know, it's really important
because I think they are all composite works that have been worked on over over like two centuries
at least before they get any hard copy that we have, you know, they've been worked on. And
quite when any of that material is put together, yeah, it's difficult to say if you read somebody
personally, you know how they, they said to reach an a a amen stage, and then they start off again.
And it's as if, as it is, several shorter pieces have been stitched together. You know, it's so,
you know, it's like there's stops and restart stops and research to get the epistles of a length
that for me proves without any contradiction. I think they are never letters. They were never
letters. They are religious expositions of a particular point of view. But no one popped them
in the post and sent them off to here there and everywhere. You know, you just have to think of
how does that happen then? How does that happen? How do they manage to get these, you know,
sending an epistle to the whole world, you know, or even to all the churches of Asia or, you know,
even to a church? How do you, you know, wouldn't you have to say to the postman,
you know, take this document and deliver it to Jacob when you get to, you know, Carinthus?
Wouldn't you have to say that? Wouldn't you have to give him specific directions as defined in these
places? And what a heroic postman, if he's going to follow around Paul's route and try and deliver
a letter, you know, oh, I know he's gone off now, but here's his letter. To me, none of it hangs
together. None of it hangs together. You said something. I was going to say, you said something
interesting about the whole how you can see a development that, for example, we look at the
epistles, right? And we see like 2nd Peter, we know that's not written by Peter. Okay. And you
talked about these forgeries being written in the name of, there's, they did it because there's,
there's some possible guy at the root here that might be his name might carry some value.
There may be a Peter possibly. I don't know. I'm just throwing it out there, but it's obvious
people are writing forgeries of him. How do we know what the real guy even said if there was an
original guy? And it's, to me, like, you know, this is where it gets very complicated. But
dealing with what we are, go ahead. I'm sure you wanted to say something on that.
No, I don't wish to interrupt, but you can see how that what the truth is, there is a process of
accretion of it, religious ideas. There's a debate going on as to what these ideas would be. Sometimes
they're so poorly digested that they contradict something that appears a few pages earlier,
but it's all put into the mix. And it's worked on in different additions. And, and, and we are,
we eventually get to the stage where the church then endorses it. There is eventually a stage
where the church endorses it. The bits that they, they don't want, they throw out and they're,
they're heretical and not having those. But even within the body of material, it's got,
it still is, is patchy. I mean, hell, I've just recently reread Romans, Paul's epistle to the
Romans. What a loaded garbage. I mean, honestly, it's language is so torturous
into this idea of justification and righteousness and, you know, grace of God.
All these bits and pieces he throws in and, and it's, it's, it's obviously in part of the debate
that's going on within the church where it's trying to work out what it really believes.
I mean, could Paul really have written all that material in the middle of the first century?
There were no gospels. He doesn't seem to know anything about the historical Jesus when he writes,
you know, so yeah, he comes out with all this theology, all this deep theology that,
that Jen, that centuries of churchman ponder over, you know, thank you.
No, thank you. Thank you. I must, I must applaud you on that because this gets to the,
you know, when you're trying to get to something and, and you're asking, well, I was asking scholars,
I've been doing this a lot and I've had guys come on and go, you know, that I believe there was a,
there was a historical Jesus, but Paul did some wackadoodle stuff with him, right?
And then you got some guys who were like, well, we're not sure if there was. This is more reason
for me to believe Jesus never existed or the guy existed a hundred years prior and somehow had
enough time to develop something like this because I only say that because it's like
the complexity at which the Christology Paul brings, you know, this guy only lived 20 years
ago and you're telling me there's this system of thought that is so encompassing this person,
supposedly, that is just so rich that he's able to write all these letters about. He says he gets it
from Revelation and he, and, and from scripture alone. He doesn't get it from any man. Yeah.
I mean, this is weird. This is weird, you know. Yeah, you're told in a very imprecise and vague
way in which Paul is getting these communications from, from Jesus in heaven and yet it's so
comprehensive. You think, you know, it's better than a VCR recording, isn't it? He's getting all
this detailed information, you know, from the Lord in heaven and, and, you know, you have to start
from that position of religious gullibility to even entertain it. If we said this stuff about
any other character apart from Jesus, everybody would say, oh, let's rubbish. You know, if you try
and say this about Apollo or Dionysus, you know, nobody would say, oh, yeah, well, you say that,
but it's just not true. You know, yes, you're right. There's a richness. Use that word, the
Christians would like that. There's a richness about Paul's material that is way out of step
with what is happening at that time. Let's take an example. Galatians. Who were the Galatians?
Who were the Galatians? Right. Well, there's various theories about the Galatians. We know
there's an area in central Anatolia called Galatia, you know, got its name originally from the Gauls
that went that far. You know, there's Galatia. And, and, and, and yet maybe he didn't go to
Galatia proper, which is up by Ankara, you know, that area, because Paul wasn't really in that area.
They said you could have these either the North Galatians or the South Galatians around a few
Roman cities that were beyond the Taurus Mountains. Now, you think, okay, but we're talking tribesmen
here, aren't we? We're talking tribesmen. They probably had their own unwritten, well, I did have
their own unwritten language. Paul's writing in Greek, you know, and he writes high brown theology
to new converts that he spent what, a week, a day? I don't know how long he was there. You know,
he gave them a sermon, if you took the story literally, he gave them a sermon, they believed,
right? He goes off and then whatever it is, a week, a year later, a letter arrives at the greatest sort
of detailed and, and, and torturous sort of theology. And that's supposed to be convincing.
And not only did they have this document sent to them in a language they couldn't understand,
that, you know, they decided to preserve it, keep it so that someone else a century later
can collect it as one of Paul's epistles. He said it's this letter. You know, at what point do you
start saying, I'm not buying this, this doesn't together. Well, just step it further, because I
don't know the, the, I don't know the geographic location or anything in terms of that. I'd love
to research what you're talking here more. But to go further, he's also talking about Peter,
he's taught, and in this letter, he's James sending spies to spy out his freedom and Christ.
How's that relevant to them? Like there, so you got to ask so many more questions, and there's
more unansweral things when you start becoming skeptical. That's what it started to do for me,
was it made me open up in a very, and it helped me knowing that we don't know,
helped me realize no one knows that it's all, you're making this thing make sense the best you
can. And I think that's fascinating. And it's written in high Koine. It's like this isn't just
regular common Greek. This is high Koine Greek being written in high theology. This is not basic
stuff. And it's very complex. His arguments are, you know, very strange. He seems to spiritualize a
lot of the Old Testament understanding of things too. It's, it's, you know, like one place I had a
rabbi on the show recently was talking about 1 Corinthians 9, where he quotes Deuteronomy,
like 32 or something where it talks about a law of God to Israel, that you're supposed to not
muzzle your oxen while it's working for you in the field. It needs to be allowed to eat
whatever it wants to eat. And Paul goes, but is this not speaking of us brethren? That God is,
and then he goes right after that and does exactly what you said. He's like, and that you should
bless me and, you know, give us earthly things. While we give you heavenly things, we should
deserve our wages. You know, we're laboring like the oxen and are you going to muzzle me?
It's like, where did you get this into Deuteronomy? I don't understand you spiritualist. He's like a
Benny Hinn, you know? Yeah. Anyway, yeah. Well, I mean, that parallel, of course, to a modern
preacher is very relevant. It's the same sort of character. Now, I might be accused of being
biased or cynical, but to me, these are charlatans out to make a quick buck of people's gullibility.
And common have done that since the beginning of time, haven't they? You know, if you have a way of
doing a little bit of so-called magic, and you don't let on the secret, you will fool people.
And you can appeal to things that really matter to them, like someone they love is dying.
Maybe they are dying, but they know death is not far away. You are going to appeal to a real
core value, core issue with them, and then you offer them something. Believe what I'm telling you,
you are saved, you know? You don't have to prove it. They just have to believe it.
Did you ever hear about the temple priests? Not necessarily the Jewish ones, because I have
no evidence of this on them, but this was known in these places like Ephesus and other places
where the pagan temples, their priests would pay, and I can't remember the name of the guy. He was
a Roman, I believe. He was an engineer. He knew how to set stuff up where you would walk up to a
temple door and it automatically opened, or there would be moving objects, and they would think the
gods were doing it. They tricked the common folk to throw their coin in, that the god lives in this
temple, and just very interesting kind of ways of tricking people, whether it was a temple,
whether it was, you know, the wine, water and wine, you know, those type of things.
Yeah, yeah, exactly. You're speaking of Hera, or Hera of Alexandria. Yeah, I mean,
he was an early scientist and he worked out the harnessing of steam power,
yeah, and he used it to open temple doors and, you know, but you see, you could do it today with
somebody who was totally ignorant. You could show them a mobile phone and say, you know,
look, pictures, words, music, it's magic, it's my god doing that, and what other reference would
they have? You know, yes, so you can use science to fool people, and I guess, and so on, and the
priests were among the first to latch onto these ideas. I mean, yeah, there's no doubt about that,
and in fact, the Christians even acknowledged that, because when they would despoil in the
pagan temples, they just love to expose the, the, the false idols and the tricks they had,
you know, they didn't, they didn't, as long as they kept it away from their own door, their own
magic was, was sacrosanct, but these little tricks were, you know, and in many cases,
they've adopted them, still happen today, you know, you go to a ceremony, I think it's in Greece,
where you can have a vial of blood and on a magic day of the year, it sort of goes from this
solid to a liquid and, and everyone's delighted by it. There's that, every year at Easter in,
in Jerusalem, you have holy fire, don't you? In the church of the Sepulchre, holy Sepulchre,
you know, they all gather and, and, and, and sort of lights come down from the sky, you know,
and it's supposedly magical, it's supposedly magical, but not just someone lighting something,
and it all lights up, you know, but people's desire to believe is very strong. And, you know,
I've got friends like that, as, as we all are, you know, they, they, they like to tell me about,
oh, there's more mysteries than we understand, and, you know, it's, it's all a bit who, you know,
hocus pocus, yeah, I mean, it's, you are fighting, we are all fighting this, you know, the desire
to make the universe conform to our ideas, but it doesn't.
Mary, Mary's, Mary crying blood on these statues and, and, and, and the cookie of Jesus or the,
the cracker of Jesus with the red, it's, it's turning into him. And yeah, so I, I agree this is
all superstition. You know, it's maybe pulled some people through some hard times, I get it.
But I think it's done overall, as I just recently interviewed yesterday,
Aeron, I think that's how he likes me to pronounce his name. And he was like,
it's done more harm though, than it's done good. If we, if we had moved a little past this,
we would be in a better place. Scientifically, I think universally as humans dividing each other
over what you think about a God or a theology, it's like, this is absurd. I, I used to be that way.
Trust me, I can, I'm a 100% con vouch what it did in my mind and how I thought I was superior
in my belief system than other Christians. We aren't even talking about the ones that are
completely lost. Okay. We're just talking about the guys who were supposed to be my brothers,
you know, and it's like, Oh gosh, I'm so glad I escaped that box. So I want to go back to Paul
for our audience's sake, because a lot of people are going to enjoy this discussion, but
tell us some weird stuff about like, what is some like red flags that you found out? I mean,
example, Paul is on a ship headed to Rome and a shipwreck happens or, you know, like,
let's talk about some funny stuff. Well, this is his famous voyage to Rome, isn't it? I mean,
for a start, it's very, very curious how he even gets to Rome, right? Because there is a
theological need for him to go to Rome. Jesus has told him he's going to testify in Rome for,
you know, for him. So, so the story writer's got to get him to Rome. Now, there's a really weird
bit here, because he eventually, after he causes a riot in Jerusalem and the Romans,
a whole cohort of Romans rescue him and take him down to their capital, Caesarea,
they take him down there and he's in jail. Yeah, he's put in jail. He's waiting for somebody to
come from Jerusalem, but this guy never comes. So, Paul is left in jail for two years, for two years.
But then a new governor comes and he decides to put Paul in front of Herod, you know, King Herod,
and this is Herod II, and he says to him, I can't see any reason why we've got you here,
but Paul, you know, basically says, I appeal to Caesar. And then this convenient King Herod says,
oh, well, as he's appealed to Caesar, there's really nothing we can do. He's got to go to Rome now.
And you think, well, hang on, this is a king and a local king and the local governor, and they
couldn't just say to Paul, well, there's nothing to answer for, let him out, you know, send him on
his way. No, he's got to go to Rome now. So, you know, that's a sort of mismatch of logic.
You know, you can't imagine a situation where a tough guy, you know, a tough guy like the
provincial governor of Judea, you know, feels like, oh, he's uttered the magic words, appear
before Caesar, I can't do a thing now, he's out of my hands. I mean, that is just not plausible.
It's just not plausible. Then he gets put on the boat with 276 other people, as far as I know,
I can't really recall. And if he goes to Rome, but the boat, you know, gets into a storm. Now,
this storm lasts an unimaginable two weeks, I think it is, two weeks, two weeks. They're lost
in a storm, you know, on the Adriatic, you know, they're two weeks. And who takes charge? Well,
ultimately, Paul. Paul takes charge. He's a prisoner, but he takes charge. He forbids them
to launch the lifeboat. He forbids them to launch the lifeboat. They don't launch the lifeboat,
right? And the ship eventually gets stranded on an island, which by tradition is identified as
mortar. And, you know, and so they all get saved, and they're all ashore. And then we get another
little episode. Paul gets bitten by a snake, right? Gets bitten by a snake. But this deadly snake
has no effect on Paul, right? Another proof that he's got, you know, he's working for the correct
God. And, you know, and this is an island which, you know, archaeobiologists tell us, you know,
it's never had poisonous snakes, but, you know, we have to make an exception that, you know,
on this occasion, there were pys and sapes, you know. And so it goes on. Each particular little
episode, and unfortunately, or fortunately, depending on how you look at it, you know, the
Gospel or the, yeah, the Gospels or the New Testament never spends more than two or three lines
on any of these little things. You know, it's an economy of story writing. You know, it's very,
very succinct to the point of absurdity. But, you know, so then, okay, they make, when the
weather breaks, they set off for Rome. Now, interesting, if you look at that whole episode
of going into Rome, what is it exactly? Well, it's the culmination of Paul in chains being taken to
prison for, you know, to appear before Caesar, but also a grandee of the church arriving in grand
style. You know, when they arrive at the Porta Putoli, brethren magically appear and stay with
them for a week. And you think, where's that come from then? You know, both the strange
appearance of Christians and the fact that now they're going to take, having spent, I think it's
two months, three months on mortar, they're going to now take another week's holiday. And how? How?
There's not just Paul and his Roman guard. You know, there's two or three of his friends plus all
the other prisoners. You know, it's just absurd. So somebody has sort of like an empty hotel in
this Roman port. Oh, yeah, we happen to be Christians come and stay with us a week. You know,
it just doesn't work. And it parallels the gospel some like this, what you just described,
like parallels Jesus in so many ways, even in all of this, like even in like the Gospel of Mark,
where the added part of the serpents, you can be bitten by a Tread on serpents or bitten by serpents,
you can tell this is Pauline, but also him going to before Herod. I mean, he went to a different
Herod, but he ends up before Herod. And Herod's like, I don't see any problem with this guy. And,
you know, he doesn't appeal to Caesar, so to speak. But later in the story,
doesn't take long before they're going, we're going to go to Caesar, the Jews. So there's some
weird parallels that are not identical, but they're there. Yeah, the story, as you correctly
point out, the story echoes earlier stories over and over and over. You know, it's like,
well, I first the news on my website, Why Waste a Good Yarn, you know, they have a little bit,
little snippet of a story, and they reuse it again and again and again, it echoes in all the other
stories. And it shows, you know, they're not even great original story writers, you know,
they're not cleaning up a new wonderful story, they're just taking an earlier story and moving
the furniture around a little bit. You know, there's all they're doing. And what would happen if
we removed the book of Acts? I mean, even the Wii version, all that, what if we just remove the book
of Acts? What will we know about this guy, Paul? Very little indeed. Very little indeed. We know
something, judging, if we judge the epistles to be genuine, then we know something. But the story
is that much very truncated, it's really just around the shores of the Aegean. You know,
so there's none of this drama. I mean, Acts is somewhat like a soap opera, isn't it? It's a soap
opera. It's simple enough for the simplest of people to follow. You know, it's people coming and
goings and, you know, but none of it has credibility as a historical event as well. I mean,
I don't care if people have a Christian religion and believe Lotta nonsense. What has he got to
do with me? They can believe what they like. But if we are looking at history, you know,
then we've got to say there's nothing to substantiate this entire story. There really isn't.
There really isn't. And I'd like, on occasion, I'd like to find something that actually,
actually, sort of hit the button, that actually was genuine. But what convinces me more than ever
that none of it is, is the fact that nothing ever fits. Nothing ever fits in with real history.
You look at, say, you know, the geography of the Holy Land and all the places where, well, we get
drifted off Jesus. But Jesus, of course, goes to all kinds of towns, but they're just the towns
that we don't know of. All the towns that are there, well, they don't get mentioned. You know,
I mean, we have a big town called Sephiris that's only a few miles from Nazareth.
That existed. That doesn't get mentioned. This little town called Nazareth. Well, that's the
one that gets mentioned, although we can't find any evidence that was Nazareth in the first century.
You know, why doesn't Paul go there? Why doesn't he go and see where his Lord was born?
Well, perhaps he doesn't even know that story. Wow. Yeah, that's a good point. I really enjoy
those type of ideas, because it really screws the whole thing up when you don't see it like that.
You know? Yeah, you've got to have, I don't know, just a war feeling that it's all really a true
story and we're just trying to, we use our faith to make it all make sense. If we have faith, then,
you know, you can square the circle, you know, you can turn a triangle inside out. You can do
all kinds of things because, well, faith makes, you know, contradictions between the Gospels.
Oh, well, that's no real problem. You know, we're not worried about that. You know, a little bit
of this, a little bit of that. If you don't have that willingness to be gullible, then you do have
a real problem seeing this as a real story. What about Paul? I love this one. I'm sure you've got
a few of these. Paul seems to be quite obsessed in many places with not only defending that he's
not a liar, but also that he seems to poke at the super apostles. He, there's something wrong
with, and this could be simply like the charlatans, like you said, if they're authoring this in the
name of a guy named Paul, they may be trying to override the validity of an original movement
by suggesting, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, you know, we know about them because he can't deny them
something to keep part of this thing. But he seems to constantly talk crap about the 12 in a way.
And most Christians overlook that, that he's like on the super apostles or, you know, claiming anyone
who teaches another gospel other than the one in Galatians, then the one he preaches, let him be
a curse, he has to say that twice. So, and then he right then goes into the breath of Cephas and
James, and it's like, what's your problem with these guys? You know, what's going on with these,
and we have letters written by these people, which once again, here goes another people writing in
the name of, and it's like, hold on, James wrote letters, Peter supposedly wrote letters, all these
people writing letters, Paul's writing letters, but Paul talks crap about this James guy who's in
the same book, the canon, and this Peter guy is like a goon of this guy, James, and somehow the
church has rectified it by making the book of Acts coming later, let's make this thing, you know,
together. I doubt that if there were historical, if we were to just presuppose, let's just not argue
that point for just a second, I bet, and you'd probably agree, that these guys never rectified,
never saw things eye to eye, and never probably agreed. The book of Acts makes it appear like, oh,
well, Paul came in and he took a Nazarite vow or whatever it was, and yeah, yeah. Acts is clearly
an attempt to heal riths, cover over divisions. Yes, it is, it also suggests what it's a later
work of, it's very clear, because it's trying to do a tidy up, harmonising
operation on very irregular, badly fitting parts of what they've compensated together.
It's clear, I mean, if we bear in mind that the Christian story of, you know, first Jesus,
then his disciples, then the church follows, you know, in some harmonious progression is all bogus,
right, you have various factions under various different names, Nazarenes and Marcianites and
various, they're all in competition, they're sort of competing with other non-Christian
religions as well, and there's no harmonious story, but there are victors at certain stages,
and if we're now in a period, at least a century, there are certain stages where maybe a movement
is popular at one stage, 10 years later it's disappeared, you know, you just think of religious
groups now, they move on, look at the history of the Mormon church and how it's split into
so many different, you know, latter-day churches of different description, because somebody jumps
up and says, I want to be leader, and somehow, you know, there's a rift, and a separate church
is bought, I mean, it happened back then as it happens now, you know, so there is no real story
as it would be intended, but there is a white washed story, which of course, yeah, you're
absolutely right, acts as that document that tries to do that, tries to present it all,
but it sets up a terrible contrast, you know, the contrast between Paul as he comes across from
the epistles of scribe to him, and Paul as he appears in the Acts of the Apostle, you are looking
at two different characters here, you know, the one in the Acts of the Apostle is a team player,
you know, he's a good guy, he goes to the temple with the 12, but, you know, in his own, you know,
as you say, Paul owed nothing to any man, he came from scripture and his own inspiration,
and so on, so he's a bombastic bully, the one who wrote epistles, but he's Mr. Nice Guy,
actually he has a very passive role, he's active, he's taken places in Acts of the Apostle,
he's delivered here, he's taken there, they took him back to Tarsus to get him out the way, you know,
but the real Paul wrote epistles, he doesn't get taken anywhere, he's the guy who decides where
people go, so that's what happens when you try and harmonize what can't really be harmonized.
Like Galatians, when he says, I told him to his face, and in Acts it's like, you know, and me and
Peter were cool, and you know, they had questions, and I paid for the four guys as vowels, and you
know, we're cool, and James was like, oh man, you're on the same team, cool, high five, all right,
go do what you were doing, man, you're cool with the law, and then Paul's like, screw the law,
don't obey the law, the law's the enemy, it's like dude, what is going on, yeah, I totally agree,
I think this is so, I love this stuff though, because it really opens up my mind.
But I mean, there is a basic, I think, you know, reality, the fact, you know, Mark one of the story,
not much to the apostle Mark, but Mark one of the story, Jesus appoints 12 men, he gives them the
power over spirits and to heal people, you know, he commissions them to take the faith across the
world, right, and then you read, hang on, we're all on Paul now, they're sort of disappeared,
they've been not only marginalized, they've been basically forgotten, I mean, seven of the 12 don't
even get any sort of write up in the Acts of the Apostles, you know, they disappear, that's why
probably very few Christians could name them, you know, they're non-entities,
they should be the most famous people in history, aren't they, you know, but no, then Mark two of
the story is, it's about Paul spreading the faith, not the 12 spreading the faith, so it's a major
rewind, and I think it illustrates, I think, by that stage, the church in the early 22nd century,
the church had set up its little enclaves, it had its little congregations, it had, you know,
the beginnings of elders and bishops, and then it needed to legitimize where it had come from,
they couldn't just say, we've just devised a new religion, they had to give it a backstory,
and Paul was the backstory. That's, and that's why you see Paul in the Gospels, I mean, it's, it's,
this is a interesting, to me, it's just interesting, because what really helped me originally deconstruct
was when I saw patterns repeat themselves in Old Testament stories, and then saw it in the new,
and that's what made me go, hold on, hold on, you're telling me that this literally happened,
and it's happened literally three, four different times in this, everything from the 72s, and the
numbers, and the, and even elements that played a role, you know, like in Moses' story, it was like
fire by day, or fire by night, and cloud by day, these same elements were in Elijah and Elisha's
story, Moses and Joshua, and then of course, John the Baptist's work, Jesus, and the church,
and I saw these patterns and themes from Adam and Eve to Abraham to, and just said, dude, either
God is so beyond, okay, that he somehow was able to do this, which, when I was a believer, I mean,
for crying out loud, you accept almost anything, because you're like, this just makes it that much
more brilliant, or you go with the like, more, what plausible explanation is, these guys knew
their stories quite well, and they knew how to write stories, and you know, I watched the movie Iron Man,
and I can look and go, wow, I watched that movie Iron Man, leaving there, really wishing there was
a real Iron Man that could do the things the video, the movie shows, you know, like, I wish this is
true, you know, do we have that technology? Not yet, I don't think, but nonetheless, I'm like, dude,
what if there isn't Iron Man, you know, it's so hocus pocus though, it's like, abracadabra, so
is there anything else about Paul that we should know that you can think of, that's some funny
things, because you bring light to it, I think it's funny that, you know, you don't just like,
you know, point out issues, you kind of make it, I guess to say you poke fun at it, and I like that,
because you try to make humor. Well, I do that as a byproduct, the fact that it is so transparent,
it is so silly in many ways. Yes, I should have been able to find evidence, having gone
all these different places where Paul went, and yet, you don't find evidence of the story, you
find evidence of how the fraud was concocted, that's the evidence that you get, you know,
the fact that you can find Paul's elbow in about four different places in the Mediterranean,
you know, the fact that, you know, this shipwreck on the island of Malta, well, that's only what the
Roman Catholic says, the Roman Catholic Church says, Greek Catholic Church has an island off the
coast of Dalmatia, that's where, you know, so, which one was it then, you know, well, it depended
which side you back during the Crusades, you know, because when the Byzantines had those islands,
it was there, but when the western armies took over, you know, it moved to Malta, didn't it,
and you just see the transparency of this damn story. The trouble is, of course,
people don't want to get into that level of detail, of really fact checking, you know, it's just,
you know, there's a promise there, isn't it? There's a promise there that you'll live forever if
you accept Jesus, there's a promise that you'll meet your loved ones, you know, it'll all be happy,
hunky dory, and if you're so damn committed to that idea, you know, it makes an uphill struggle
for those of us who say, well, look, let's tell me the truth, whatever the truth is, you know,
and of course, plus the fact, people who push the religious agenda are making a good living
out of it, that's the way, you know, even, you know, dear old Bart, you know, he's proved many
times how fraudulent the Christian story is, but he's still clinging to, oh, well, there's a new
story called Jesus, you know, he knows which side is Brady's butt, it doesn't he, so,
yeah, he's good at it, he's good at it, you know, I'd laugh if the church has locations for his foreskin,
can you imagine? Paul, the apostle of Christ, his foreskin is located over here, I mean,
this guy was so against circumcision in his letters, and then he, it's just so crazy,
but doesn't Acts even play out this funny, interesting role? This tells you, in my opinion,
the church that the time the book, the book of Acts is written, is clearly trying to say,
you don't have to be circumcised, it's clearly saying this, because Paul is arguing with Peter,
and like, I've heard this explained so many times, and this is a huge Protestant Catholic debate,
this is from someone who comes from inside of the Kool-Aid drinking box, okay, and while I was in
there drinking this Kool-Aid watching Catholics and Protestants debate, they argued every time,
and the Protestants would point out something, you know, it's almost like,
what's his name? Matthew Dillahante says, he says, if you want to know how a religion is wrong,
ask another religion. Well, the Protestants will make this argument and go, oh, you say
Peter had the keys of the, you know, like he's the first pope, you think he's the first pope,
how did the first pope get it wrong then when Paul came up? Because it's really Paul against Peter,
if you go to the Roman Catholicism, it represents Peter technically, and Paul, you know, represents
the Protestant or what Protestants really took over later, they always go to Paul and use really
grace to faith, not of works. Well, I thought this was interesting that they make Paul rebuke
Peter, who handed Jesus' hands, the keys to the kingdom, dude, it's like, what's going on here,
dude? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, it makes you smile if you couldn't think rationally about something
which many people don't don't even want to be questioned. I mean, they don't want this tough
question. And if they're sufficiently enlightened to consider ideas, they'll be,
they'll need huge amounts of convincing, huge amounts of convincing, you know, it's like,
you're asked, they're presented a silly idea, but they expect a huge quantity of very rational
evidence ever to, you know, to question that idea, whereas it should be on the face of it
questionable in itself, questionable in itself, you know, the arguments made for religious claims,
walking on water, whatever it might be, you know, that is a questionable claim. You don't need a
huge load of evidence to prove that is wrong, but, you know, religious people are so committed
that, yep, that's the bell, that's what we have to take on that challenge, don't we?
I, I legitimately dealt with this. What you're saying here, just the other day,
I told the guy that, you know, scholars, it's pretty much a universal consensus that critical
scholars say Abraham didn't exist. And this guy wrote me, literally, and I had to post it in this
myth, mythicist room, mythicist versus historicist Jesus room. And he says, that's a lie. The
historical Abraham did exist. I know because Jesus, I've met Jesus, Jesus, the historical Jesus,
took me to see the historical Abraham, and I met him, you may not believe me, he said,
but this is the case. And I just simply being kind wrote back, were you taking dimethyl tryptamine,
or are you on drugs?
Yeah, yeah. Thankfully, we probably don't have too many of that type of Christian in this country,
because actually Christianity is quite a minority cult within Britain, you know, and within Europe,
I'd say, you know, as we said, I think on the last time we spoke, it's America that's holding out
for Christ, you know, you're sort of regimented and so conditioned to believe in what is basically
a very primitive set of ideas. I mean, you know, we've had the enlightenment, we've had the age
of science, you know, science now plots the fervorous reaches of the universe, and to believe in this,
you know, God from the Bronze Age, and a quaint but copied story, regurgitated story,
we're just a different hero from 2000 years ago. Well, men of science don't entertain it, do they?
Men, the educated elite don't entertain it, but the popular, the populace entertains this idea.
I think a lot of it applies to patriotism, and look, my father, and I'm not against that,
my father's a Green Bray, he retired Special Forces, but I do had, growing up, I had this sense of
connecting my pride, American pride, and being pro-military, pro-America to my Christianity,
and the fact that they, I guess you could say politically intertwined, you know,
I grew up very conservative, I no longer vote. Now, I get people who are on the opposite side,
who are looking at me going, you stupid, you, the non-voters are the reason why we didn't win,
you know, and this and that, I'm like, it's, for me, I mean, I couldn't vote not long ago,
because I was a drug addict who made some mistakes, you know, I lost my rights, but
I'm kind of glad I did, because personally, I don't even, I don't know, I don't want to get
involved in it, because too many, it feels like religion, I'm not, look, I'm not trying to say
that there aren't political things we should probably, you know, try to stand up for and vote
for, that we want change in the world, especially when it comes to freedom of religion and thought,
and not teaching that Jesus created the earth 6,000 years ago in school, okay, that don't dumb
our kids down. At the same time, I feel like it's the same veracity that comes into Paul,
and all these things that we do religiously in arguments and debates, is the same thing politically
I witnessed in America of Republican versus Democrat, and it's like, yeah, we're not saying the
name Jesus, but it feels much like religion, and I just, I'm like, I try to, I'm happy, I'm happy
where I'm at. So I empathize with you, when you say that you don't vote, because, you know,
most of my life, I've never voted to be honest, you know, to me, I never saw any, any political
movement that I could endorse so hard, hardly to even go and vote, you know, and our politics has
become weird, in the same way that your politics has become weird. Dare I say, your politics is
even weird as an hours, you know, it's so bad riots. I mean, like we're talking hate. If you
voted for the opposite side, there's literal hate of you. It is, it is like the fifties with black
and whites, except it's no longer a race thing, so to speak, even though there is some of that,
some places, it's now become what you're, are you wearing an elephant? Are you wearing a, you
know, because you had the Republican symbol, are you wearing a demon? I just stay out of it, man.
I just, I wish that it wasn't like that, because I'd love to go vote and say, hey, I feel like
I believe in what these people are doing all the way across the board, but, you know, choose which
evil, lesser evil, or I just kind of don't get involved, if that makes sense. I do this right
here, I deconstruct people, and people who watch this go, wow, okay, I no longer have to think like
that. I think you're doing a grand service, you know, you really are, and you have a, dare I say,
you have a lovely manner, and it's great to talk to you, it really is, it really is. You have an
open mind, but you're sensible. I try to be, I don't want to be mean. I try to sound patronising, but
you know, I sometimes get interviewed by, like I've been invited to appear on Christian stations,
and you, from the word go, you know, it's, oh right, we're gonna have an issue here, you know.
I love that, though, because I know exactly what you're talking about. I know exactly,
I actually was invited to speak on a show recently with a guy named Asher, and he's a rabbi,
and now he's a rationalist rabbi, which he even, he's like, what are you, I'm like a
magnostic, I guess by definition, I'm an atheist, though, because I don't worship a God, but whether
there is something out there, divine, or something, I don't know, I'm, you know, I don't, I don't
believe in that. And he's like, well, I'm an agnostic, even though I do believe that there may be a
God, the God of the Bible, which he, you know, the Hebrew scriptures is Yahweh. He went in this
interesting thing, I'd never heard a Jew take this time type of position. He even goes so far as
only the five books, and he says that the prophets were only written during a time,
and they were only meant for a specific time for specific people. However, he believes that
what happened is when they took away rights to read Torah to the Jews, the Jews used, or Israel,
used the prophets to get as much of the law out of the prophets as they could, till they were
allowed to go back to five books, and they elevated the prophets on a level equal to Torah when they
never were. So there's so many complexities just in the presuppositions to what we find in the
New Testament. It's like, okay, dude, like, if you really just think this thing made it, and it was
good to go, you got more faith than anyone I've ever met, because that's serious faith once you
start seeing the critical stuff we're looking at here. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Most talking to the Jews,
most Jews of my acquaintance in this country are actually quite secular, you know. I get a bit
annoyed when people speak of the Jews, specifically the ancient Jews, as if they all agreed, and they
all agreed with their rabbi, you know, they all agreed with the temple priests, like they were
just one herd. Now, there was maybe that tendency, but you know, by guys, there were lots of divisions
within the Jews. A lot of Jews became Romans, they embraced the pagan religions, you know. The idea
that there was one homogenous Jew is just ridiculous, just ridiculous. And some of the most outstanding
writers have been atheistic Jews, for Christ's sake, you know. That's true. Ken, how can people
help support what you do or get your book? Is there a website? Is there a YouTube channel? What
do we got here, boss? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, let's not forget. Get the book. It's a very thick book.
Lots of information. But it's very readable. It's very readable. That's probably the most
helpful thing people could do, because at the end of the day, I don't need a new television,
but you know, it's nice that the people get the word out, you know. Like you say, many people
will make the comment. I hadn't thought of that. You know, they just hadn't challenged. Even just
a very basic proposition. Jesus never existed. It might, oh, didn't it? I've never thought of that.
I assume because everyone goes around speaking about Jesus. He was a historical character,
but he's no more real than, you know, William Tell or, you know, King Arthur, all the other
mythological characters of history, you know. But of course, they don't have a religion stuck
upon them, do they? I mean, I'm often struck, it's getting into a little bit of the detail, but I'm
often struck the difference between following what the Jews did or didn't do and maybe say,
the tribe of the Isenai in eastern Britannia at the same time, you know. Nero had to send his
legions into Britain to not, now, would we embrace an ancient British God? You know, would we entertain
that there was someone walking around? You know, it's just so arbitrary that this story
out of a little province, sub-province in the Roman Empire produced the world's truth.
It's simply, it's simply an historical accident. It's a single, that's all it was, you know.
Constantine, Constantine was back in Apollo, then he thought, give this Jesus God a chance,
you know, and suddenly the church was in there, into the corridors of power.
I think there was a, I personally think that there was a temptation to go toward a monotheistic
tendency that unified one thought, because one might go, well, Apollo, why are you leaving out,
such as such, or why are you leaving out? Why not come at it from a view that eliminates all gods,
so you can't have your different flavors and everyone tastes the same cup of tea?
So let's get under one flag, one idea, one mind, and everybody could be controlled with the same
pretty packaged. I mean, look, and Jesus is so similar to other, we did that show with Dr. Baum,
he's so similar to these other pagans that some of the church fathers actually argue that point,
hey, just like you believe in Apollo and his virgin birth, you know, believe in Jesus and his
virgin birth, it's like, oh, that, well, yeah, why can't I, I could see a pagan going, you know what?
Good point, I'm going to your pagan, or he didn't probably didn't call a pagan, we call a pagan,
but I'll go check out your god then, cool, they were into that stuff, so.
The polytheists were both tolerant of each other, but had very similar ideas to what the
Christians tried to monopolize and did monopolize, and then their bishops became the top dogs,
and it was a totalitarian system or an attempt to force a totalitarian system on the Roman empire,
and that was, to the Roman emperors, very appealing, you know?
Yeah, but very damaging too, they collapsed not long after that, so.
Absolutely.
If anything you take away is, guys, be skeptical, check out Ken Humphrey's book,
I appreciate you joining for the show, this was a wonderful podcast.
It's been a pleasure, you take care now.
Yep, and if you guys have any questions, you have any ideas, anything you want to hear from Ken,
let me know, I'll try and prepare for the next show that we do with him,
I'm always a fan of his work, and obviously what you produce is not only educational,
but you have a sense of humor about it, and that's what I appreciate, you're not just rude and mean,
you know, you're rude, mean, and nice at the same time.
Thank you so much.
Well, we are Mythition.
