Did the author of Matthew use Luke as a source for their gospel?
This is Matthew in posterity.
Did Matthew use Mark and Luke?
The far hypothesis says something different.
And for those who are interested in understanding, what is the synoptic problem?
What is the problem?
What are the issues?
We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision podcast.
And today we're going to be talking about, well, the synoptic problem.
When gospels were written before, which ones?
Who's using what?
And there are various hypotheses today.
We're going to be dealing with Matthew and posterity, but we're going to talk
about what that means, what that is.
What's the problem?
And with that, our guest is Dr. Alan Garrow.
Am I pronouncing your last name correctly?
That's right.
Yeah.
Thank you so much for joining me today.
Can you tell our audience a little bit about your expertise, background and such?
OK, so my name is Alan Garrow, and I'm a member of the Sheffield
Interdisciplinary Institute for Biblical Studies or Institute for Tongue Twisters.
And I'm also the Vicar of St. Peter's Church in Harrogate.
So I'm a full-time pastor in a church in the north of England.
I did my PhD at Oxford University and I worked on Matthew's relationship
with a little tech school, the Diddakay.
And it was from there that I found myself coming in around the back
and the side of the synoptic problem and seeing things from a different angle.
Maybe think, oh, it's obvious Matthew must be using Luke.
And I published a couple of articles about that in the Journal
of New Testament Studies in 2016 and around that time.
So there's a guy also called Rob McKeown, who published a book on the same subject
the year before. And since then, this question, could Matthew have used Luke
as become a hot topic in this particular area?
And there's been a lot of debate and discussion about it.
Previously, it wasn't really making any waves at all.
Wow. So this is what we call the Wilk Hypothesis.
Well, it's actually, we don't call it the Wilker Hypothesis so much anymore.
Wilker was a German pastor.
He more than 100 years ago said, you know what, Matthew used Luke.
Trust me, he really did.
But he didn't have enough traction to overcome the way things were going at that time.
He didn't have an intellectual university position, for example.
He didn't write a great deal about the idea of Matthew using Luke.
He just said, I'm really sure this is the case.
A few other people through the course of the modern era have said the same thing.
But they've never been in a position where people took any notice of them.
So it's one of the amazing things that a lot of them have been students
writing their first article, maybe, or coming from a different field.
And people just haven't reacted to it.
And if you're not part of the conversation, then it's easy to get ignored.
And that's how it's been for quite a long time until, I'd say, about 2015,
things started to rise up from this particular hypothesis.
And most people who are watching this who don't know about this are lost.
So don't worry.
We're going to get you on track.
We're going to explain why this is an issue and why we're talking about this today.
Before we do, I want to give an introduction to your book.
Number one, the Gospel of Matthew's Dependence on the Dedekei.
This is on Amazon.
If you liked this episode and you're interested in hearing more about what Dr.
Garrow has to say, this is a book probably worth checking out.
Can you tell us briefly what this book is about?
Well, there's a lot of similarities between.
There was a little text called the Dedekei that was discovered in 1873.
It nearly got into the New Testament, but didn't.
And it has a lot of parallels with Matthew's Gospel, and it also mentions Matthew's Gospel.
And so when it was first discovered, there was a kind of an assumption that it must
know and use Matthew's Gospel.
In the middle of the 20th century, scholars started to say, actually,
there are some real problems with that.
It doesn't look like the Dedekei does know Matthew for considerable chunks of it.
And so my book is really flipping the question all the way around and saying,
wouldn't it make more sense if Matthew was using the Dedekei?
And I try to make the case that that's true.
And if it is true, then that also has an impact on the synoptic problem because
Matthew, you've got another bit of data to throw into the mix there.
And it sort of things out as far as I can see.
That's how I got into it anyway.
Yeah, I think we're going to dive in as time goes by to find out why this whole question
is important to you.
And each person seems to say they have a piece of the pie and it somehow influences
their conclusions on the synoptic problem.
But we're going to get to that.
The problem page, I just pulled this up when I was looking up the synoptic problem on your
blog.
I want everybody to know they can go and they subscribe to your blog,
where you write on stuff all the time.
This is particularly on the synoptic problem here.
Also, you can help support us here at MythVision's Patreon working very hard.
We have a community of people who are like-minded, who talk about all this stuff and more.
So please consider helping support us.
And that's in the description.
The first question, I think that's worth asking, Dr. Garrow, is a synoptic problem.
We've got a problem.
What is the problem?
What do you mean?
It's a puzzle, really.
So you've got Matthew, Mark and Luke.
They've got really substantial similarities between them.
Somebody is copying somebody else.
So who copied whom is really the question?
And it should be a pretty simple puzzle to solve.
You've only got three entities.
And provided you can work out which one is first, then you're then down to two basic options.
So it's become a celebrated puzzle in New Testament studies.
People have been worrying about it for nearly 200 years.
But my own position is that it's been made much more complicated than it should do.
It's really quite simple.
I was going to say just to show people visually what we're dealing with.
And I only grabbed four.
There are more because if you take the combination of three and you just move it in different ways,
you're going to have different hypotheses about how this started.
Right now, we've interviewed Mark Goodacre here on the Pharah hypothesis
that Mark is the first Gospel.
And then Matthew, of course, is the next.
And then Luke knows Matthew, according to the Pharah hypothesis and Mark, of course.
So Mark's used in both Gospels.
There's also the two-source hypothesis where Mark influences both Matthew and Luke.
But Matthew and Luke are independent of each other and that Luke is aware of not only Mark,
but also Q and Matthew knows Q and Mark.
So there's different versions of this, by the way, that I've seen,
where I've actually seen Q have an arrow over to Mark as well.
And I don't know if that changes the whole game.
Dr. Garrow.
Yeah, that's not such a common theory.
But a lot of things are possible.
Actually, one of the things which I'd say is more remarkable about the synoptic problem is that,
given that there are really quite a lot of theoretical solutions,
very few of them have been investigated in any depth.
And so there's kind of an assumption that,
well, we've been worrying about this for nearly 200 years.
Surely all the options have been exhausted.
And really, it's only three or four that have been investigated very thoroughly.
And so there's definitely room for moving on to a new solution now.
Wow. Okay.
And then there's also Matthew was written first,
which I think a lot of church tradition tries to say that Matthew,
or there's a form of Matthew that's first.
Luke knows Matthew and Mark knows both.
It seems that that position is probably not the most popular, I would suspect.
Yeah.
So I would say that 99% of scholars think that Mark is used by Matthew and Luke.
There was a book that came out very recently arguing for Greasebark,
but apart from that, I don't know of any active scholars who support this view.
It's actually, I mean, I could be wrong about that.
I'm not totally across what everybody's doing around the world, of course.
But it's really remarkable how support for the Greasebark hypothesis has collapsed in the last
20 years. It was the main contender to the main challenger to the two document hypothesis,
not that long ago, but now you'd really have to work very hard to find somebody to write a chapter
in support of it if you're putting together an edited volume or something.
It seems the two document hypothesis from what I understand is
like the number one contender right here.
Yeah. I think definitely in Germany, it's way ahead.
Mark Goodacre has done an astonishing job of
chipping away at that lead over the last 20 years.
And I'd say that amongst younger scholars in the UK and North America, certain parts of North America,
his theory is increasingly popular.
And you look at online surveys, which are not terribly reliable, but some put 2DH in the
two document hypothesis in the lead, some put Farah in the lead.
They definitely have become the two main parties in the last 10, 20 years, I'd say.
Thank you. And then the one I got here is the hypothesis that you'll be proposing,
which I just found the name particularly on Wikipedia, but it's that Mark is the earliest,
just like the Farah. Luke knows Mark and Matthew knows Mark as well, but that Matthew uses Luke
and not the Farah, which is the idea that vice versa.
So does this hypothesis include Q, whereas it seems that Goodacre is not a big proponent of Q,
not saying it's not there, but does your particular hypothesis,
you can have it or not have it? It doesn't matter or how does it work with your hypothesis?
Yeah. So to say that Mark Goodacre is not a particular proponent of Q is a bit of an understatement.
He's made a career out of trying to eliminate Q, but my view of the situation, I think a really
important mistake was made early on by scholars who believed in Q, because they found a bit of
evidence which suggested that there was a source shared by Matthew and Luke. And I think that
evidence is there actually. I don't think it's very extensive, but it's not terribly unlikely
that there would be sources floating around in an early period, which those Gospel writers might
both of them have thought was useful for including in their text. But they made a logical mistake,
which was to say, if Matthew and Luke both use a common source, that means that Matthew
cannot use Luke and Luke cannot use Matthew. Now, if you stop to think about it, that's
obviously nonsense. I mean, just because you might have seen a podcast and thought,
oh, that's good stuff. I could use some of that material on my blog. And another person has seen
the same thing and copied it onto their blog. It doesn't mean to say that person they can't also
copy the other guy across the way. It's not, it doesn't put a burning wall between them.
And so, personally, I think that there is scope for, because I think the did a case of source
used by both Luke and Matthew, but it's a small consideration, a much more important question
to answer. Once you're, if you're sure that Matthew, if you're sure that Mark is first,
the next question to answer is what's the relationship between Matthew and Luke?
And really, you've got two options, either Matthew use Luke or Luke use Matthew. Now,
if neither of those options is possible, and there's some really good reason why neither of them
works, then you get into the classic cube hypothesis. And so, the only way of explaining
the material that Matthew and Luke share that isn't in Mark, that's quite extensive is about
4,000 words. Some of it is word for word, the same. The only way of explaining that is by
interposing their common use of Q. But that's a very serious step to take. You should only take
that step when you're really sure that Luke could not have used Matthew, and Matthew could not have
used Luke. But what happened historically, you actually, you referenced this earlier on,
is there was a kind of assumption that Matthew was first. It was the record of the apostle. And,
and so 100 years ago, there was a kind of an assumption that Matthew could not have used Luke.
And assumptions are really powerful, aren't they? Once you once you got into your head that you
don't need to consider that part of the problem, that you just focus on another part. And so,
those scholars focused on arguments why Luke couldn't have used Matthew. And I think
So Dr. Garrow, we lost you for a second there. I almost thought you were raptured. But then again,
I thought maybe that's heresy. I'm not sure where when, but you were pointing out the conversation
is not really happening or wasn't happening on Mark using Luke. That wasn't really an option. And
then it became something that really gained a little traction in the last what, 20, 30 years or so?
Yeah, so it's just funny how the conversation goes. Scholars tend to talk about what scholars are
talking about. And the way the conversation had gone in the past was the assumption that Matthew
can't have used Luke. So we're not going to look at that question. And then so the question that
really got looked at is whether Luke could have used Matthew. And there were those who thought
this is not possible. And so the only way of explaining the material shared by Matthew and Luke
that isn't in Mark, there's quite a lot of it. Some of it's very close indeed is to say, well,
they must have been using a shared source. Now, the conversation since then has has gone on with
people saying, no, Luke could have used Matthew. And the Q scholar saying, oh, I really don't think
that's the case. Still not engaging with the possibility that Matthew used Luke. And and
actually, I think the internet has really got a lot to do with changing the pace of that conversation
because lots of people people have been saying Matthew used Luke over the years, but they've
not been able to talk to each other. And and now they've been collecting together and saying, you
know what, actually, this is a real thing. And some important publications have come out which
have raised it above the parapet. And now the challenge really for the two document people,
the Q hypothesis people, and for Farage to say, well, give us a reason why Matthew could not have
used Luke. Because we got lots of reasons Mark Goodaker and others have done a fantastic job of
saying, she was really unlikely in the form that it's commonly postulated. And we got a lot of
good people like John Kloppenborg and others saying, it was really unlikely that Luke used Matthew. So
the next question is, why didn't Matthew use Luke? And so far, the amazingly little has been
published on that. Mark Goodaker published a chapter in the book early this year. There was a
little article in 2017 by a guy called Joel Downing. And there's another, Alex Andreas has
published a little bit, I actually got something coming out in a journal later this year, which
responds to all of those. And they're really little arguments. They're not saying, you know,
when you look at this, but standing back and saying, it just doesn't make sense the way that
Matthew uses Luke, according to your theory, actually, everything that Matthew does in his
treatment of Luke is in keeping with his treatment of Mark. And everything he does in
his treatment of Mark and of Luke is in keeping with how other authors in that period merged
together common sources and sources, related sources, which they were putting together into
one narrative. So there's really, from my point of view, there is no problem. I mean,
not to say there are no problems, but it just is really simple and straightforward to say,
Matthew used Luke. And I think that the ball is pretty much in the court of those other scholars
now to say, well, give us a good reason why that couldn't be the case, because we've
had so much traffic on on why Luke can use Matthew and why Q is unlikely.
Okay. This is interesting. So there's an absolute agreement on Mark being the first gospel.
Not absolutely, but pretty close. Yeah.
Okay. And is there any really good reason to think that Mark wasn't the first gospel other
than papias is mentioned? No, I don't think so. I mean, there was a,
there were some little places where you get Matthew saying early in the morning and Luke saying
first light and Mark having both of those together. And that might look like Mark is conflating
Matthew and Luke. And that would be a really good argument for saying that Mark is last
rather than first, but they're very small examples. And actually, there are much bigger
examples of Matthew conflating related material in Mark and Luke. So I think it makes much more
sense to have Matthew third there. But yeah, it's possible to read these things always round. But
the reason why Mark is so commonly seen as first now is because of the what happens when you compare
Matthew Luke to Mark with the way that other authors are using
similar sources and similar situations just fits that wider pattern. So a big trend in the last
20, 20 odd years is to look at ancient compositional practices. What was everybody else doing when
they were doing this kind of work? And how does that fit or not fit with the way that our authors
the Gospel and the writers are behaving under a given hypothesis?
There's a lot here to really discuss and try to get into. I'm kind of thinking to myself,
what were some of the strong points that you would say actually convince you mostly that Matthew
is third, meaning using Luke as well? Okay, well, it's really, it's a very simple process.
You start off by saying one of the really good reasons for saying that Matthew and Luke both
use Mark. So then you're down to your next question. Either Matthew Luke or Luke use Matthew,
which is it? And it seems to me really unlikely that Luke used Matthew because
we can tell us a lot about Luke by the way he uses Mark. Mark uses Mark generally in blocks.
So there's a big chunk of Mark and then there's some other stuff. There's a big chunk of Mark and
there's some other stuff, a big chunk of Mark. And generally speaking, he keeps Mark and material
in the same order that we find in Mark. So it looks like it's a pretty simple
cut and paste job. In that process, you adapt Mark a little bit. And it's not to say that there are
no universals in this, but that's the general pattern. When Luke uses Matthew, if Luke uses
Matthew, the way he treats Matthew is completely different. He doesn't have Matthew in blocks at
all. Actually, he breaks up Matthew's discourses and spreads them across his gospel.
Now, looked at the other way, Matthew, his treatment of Mark is really typical,
as what these ancient authors did was they say, well, I've got three versions telling the same
story. I'm going to read them all, decide which one I think is most accurate and complete, use
that as my frame. And then I'll read the others or take information from the others, which is
supplementary, it fills things out a little bit. And I'll, and I'll slot that in at the places
governed by the frame provided by my main source. That's what Matthew does with Mark.
Matthew is effectively fat Mark. It's Mark with lots more teaching of Jesus put into that framework.
And if Luke is one of Matthew's sources, then the way he treats them is exactly how
other authors doing the same kind of thing also treated their sources.
So the Sermon on the Mount is a great example, actually, where actually there, Matthew takes
Luke's Sermon on the plane as his frame, and then he fills that out with other material from
elsewhere in Luke and from Mark, and I'd say from the Didache, to create everything that you
want to know about what Jesus has to say about the law. Nice set piece discourse.
And he's followed inter compositional practices producing that if Luke uses Matthew, then he
reverses that process. So the effect is, it's like, if you were to reverse the movie of Luke
using Matthew, what you would get is someone acting like a really conventional author.
But as it is with Luke using Matthew, it's behaving like somebody like we never see in
the first and second century, more like a 20th century movie maker with lots of cuts and
splicing things across all of those really complicated ways, very difficult to do.
Another thing which is a real problem for the firehouse is a thing called unpicking,
as it commonly talked about. This is where you've got two versions of the same story.
If Matthew is using Luke and Mark, he's spliced them together. But if Luke is using Matthew,
he has to go in and pull out all the bits that Mark has added, or that Matthew has
added to Mark. That's right. All the bits of Matthews are added to Mark and leave behind Mark
and stuff. That's a really amazing operation. Now, if you had Mark Goodacre on here, he would
dispute that. But this is a pattern which I think happens an awful lot. It's one of the things
which convinces most people that Luke couldn't have used Matthew. If you were to ask a firehouse
supporter, what do you think is the weakest point in the fire hypothesis they might well say? Well,
unpicking does require some special pleading, some special arguments as to why that actually
constantly worked out. Actually, what happened was that Luke was just using Matthew, wasn't
thinking about Mark at all because he's using Matthew in blocks. That's what Luke does. It just
so happened that the way that he used Matthew left out the Mark and bits.
I'm sorry. What is the weakest argument you'd say for your hypothesis?
Most things about Matthew using Luke, I think fit really easily. Somebody just observing that
without any background. I can see how that works. The question that requires a more complicated
answer and so it's a weaker spot is to say, well, if Matthew uses Luke, how come he hasn't got all
that good stuff like the power of the Good Samaritan or the power of the prodigal saddle?
There's material in the birth narrative that Matthew completely ignores. There's resurrection
appearances that Matthew didn't use. Then someone in my position has to say, well, there is a logic
to that. You can say Matthew has a consistent pattern in the sorts of things he omits,
but that's a more complicated answer. If I was wanting to attack my own hypothesis,
what I would do is to say there's something that you'd really expect Matthew to pick up from Luke
and he doesn't. Why is that? Right. Of course, I think that just for a second,
I think it's good to talk about Matthew if we can and then just to get your thoughts. I've mentioned
this in the last discussion I did with Mark Goodacre on this Q issue, or not Q, but the
far hypothesis. We talked about Q and we talked about this, but in Matthew, it's the only gospel
that has what sounds to me very Jewish tendencies in some respects. I mean that I came only for
the lost sheep of the house of Israel. We don't find that in any other text. The idea that to the
twelve disciples, there is this in Luke, but it's like he's clearly telling to the twelve,
you twelve will be seated on twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. Very,
I don't know, I guess I call it Jewish, but it seems it's very exclusive until, of course,
the go out into the nations, of course, and preaching the gospel at the end.
So what do you see in Matthew that's really unique? What's he up to? Because I know that
taking this magnifying glass and trying to parse out who was what, you're forced to know the character,
to know the narrative, to know the story, to kind of get familiar with this person
through the writing, whoever they are, and it's getting you to start seeing a trend of the kind
of style they are. What do you see in him that's unique? Well, I think that Matthew is very keen
on demonstrating that Jesus is the Messiah, so he wants to take every opportunity to show how
Jesus' life and ministry fulfills Old Testament prophecy. But another thing that he's really
keen on is gathering together what Jesus had to say on various subjects like the law, that's the
Sermon on the Mount, Mission, the End Times. So he creates these blocks of material and
he wants to preserve, I think he's somebody who wants to preserve everything that Jesus has to say
on the subjects he's interested in. And so he's got an old source and he thinks it's reliable,
he'll try and include it. So I would say only the lost sheep of the House of Israel might well
be something that Matthew has picked up as something which I think Jesus really said.
I'm interested in what Jesus said, I don't want to preserve it for posterity, I want
future generations of Christians to be able to read this and learn it and use it.
And so he stuffs it in. And that's why you get some things which are very old and Jewish
and other things which are more open and gentile focused, all in the same bag. Now, I think that
Matthew is also reacting against Jesus, Luke's openness to a law-free gospel. So he wants to
say, actually, I don't think that's really the story, we want the law is important still.
And so there's a bit of an editing out of that kind of emphasis in Luke. Another interesting edit
that Matthew gets into is he edits out female autonomy. So Luke has lots of women
who behave in untraditional manners and Matthew tends to chop them out of his narrative. So
maybe he's got a male audience, maybe he's got a richer audience, a more establishment audience.
So Luke is much more radical about money than Matthew is. And you find Matthew kind of toning
down the dial on that so that the people aren't condemned just for being rich. It's possible to
be rich and be a follower of Jesus. And actually, I think that in terms of the success of Christianity,
Matthew's gospel is really important for making it acceptable to the middle classes,
if you like. Because if you only had Luke's gospel, you'd think, well, this guy is pretty extreme.
He's saying, you know, give out all your possessions. He's saying, give to poor people
without asking for it back. Goes on about money a tremendous amount. And he also has quite weird
parables in there, like the unjust steward who gives away, you know, writes off debts before
being kicked out of his job. And so we would have quite a different picture and one which I think,
you know, most Western Christians would probably find a bit more challenging, actually.
As far as acts goes, I was recently talking to Dominic Crossen, and he was saying that he thinks
that Luke wrote acts as like a, like a sequel to the same, like it's a two volume work to him.
Do you see acts appear in Matthew at all?
No, I don't. I think that that's right. It is a two volume work. There's a guy called
Bartos Adamususki who thinks that Matthew uses acts as well. That's not something I've looked
into. And I think that there's not a tremendous amount of scope for it. Because what Matthew is
interested in doing is weaving together teaching of Jesus, and you don't get that in acts. So
that's not a job he's set out to do. Okay, I got to look into that, that other scholar.
There's so much interesting stuff here. I've been torn on this gospel, Matthew, because while it's
extremely Jewish in one sense, if you get what I'm putting down here, it's also foreshadowing
what I've heard other academics call, and it may not be the best term, replacement theology.
It kind of makes me wonder if there's multiple edits to this, or does it look like it's the
same author who's given you both material and saying, God's going to take the vineyard away from
the Jews, which it's simultaneously extremely Jewish, but there's a Jewish mission throughout
the whole thing. And so much so, Jesus is like, you know, to like the Syrophoenician woman,
yes, I'm granting you this, but I'm on a mission for the Jews right now. Okay, Mr. Centurion,
you have greater faith than everyone in Israel. That's awesome. I'm on a mission for the Jews
right now. But he still like gives them the nod, he gives them the blessing and then knows, hey,
don't worry, in the end, the mission's going out. There's even what seems to me, I read Alison's
commentary on this, and I thought, okay, this is interesting. Might be a fossil where he said,
you will not have gone through all the houses in Israel before the Son of Man comes, kind of an
apocalyptic fossil here that may be from the lips of Jesus. I just have a hard time wrestling with
this. Am I on the right scope? Do you think on understanding mission, but the author's already
aware of the Gentile mission while authoring this? Yeah, I think that's, I think that seems
likely that the Gentile mission is out there. And I think that it's kind of accepting its reality,
but also a bit cautious about its effect on the core tradition. So it feels like wanting to pull
things a little back, back more towards Jerusalem, if you like, rather than a way into the Gentile
territories that Luke and Paul have been going into. So it's a trend to rebalance, but it's
definitely not a, you know, the Gentile mission is not part of this at all. We're trenching
absolutely to being a hardcore Jewish outfit. It's just trying to get back to those roots a
little bit. But as I say, it's got a lot to do with the raw material. I think that I don't think
Matthew generates anything himself would be my guess. I'm saying I think he's knitting together
the sources he has available and that notes his material. Some will be pro-Gentile, some will be
less so. What do you do with the idea of Matthew seven? I have speculated, I'm sure other scholars
have, that this might be jabbing at Pauline Christianity here, the idea that you don't need
to observe Torah, like you're talking about the laws not significant. And there'll be people who
I did this in your name, I did this in your name, which might be just generally any Christian,
but it sounds like people following that drift, especially towards Gentiles maybe, that like,
you don't need the law at all. Antinomianism might be setting in at this point. Do you think
Matthew's kind of jabbing at Paul? Or do you think Matthew might be jabbing at what became
of Pauline Christianity? Oh, this is a really complicated area, Derek, because you have to
be careful about 16th century interpretations of Paul. So I think that I think Matthew is definitely
wanting people to be properly righteous according to the way that Jesus kept the law. And I think
he's anxious, he's nervous about a Pauline Christianity reflected in Luke's Gospel,
which is saying, Jesus just comes and forgives people. And the thief on the cross is just
forgiven, the prodigal son is just forgiven. Matthew leaves those out. And that might suggest
that he's keen on people being properly righteous. And I think there's quite a lot of evidence that
Didache has actually, you know, he's got these mostly ethics, it's saying, if you want to be a
follower of Jesus, you need to do these things and not do these things. I'm confident that, yes,
I think there is a dialogue between these two different streams of Christianity at the same
time as trying to hold stuff together, because it really isn't the case, according to my theory,
that Matthew is rejecting Luke altogether, he's accepting that Luke's got the material that's
worth including some of it word for word, but the tone and the tenor is drawing back on some of
the aspects that Matthew might think is extreme in Luke.
What do you do with the prologue in Luke, where it sounds like Luke is saying many other accounts
have been written. And so when we talk about many, I would imagine more than just Mark might be
what he means. And everything else beyond that is kind of speculative. If we don't have John,
if we don't have Matthew yet, all we have is Mark. And when he says many, I kind of wonder
what you do with the prologue, was I added later or was the prologue there at the outset of Luke's
Gospel, in your opinion? Yeah, it's a respectable view to think that the first three chapters were
added later. It's not a view that I hold at the moment myself. But I think about stories about
Jesus, the way things go with this sort of thing is that immediately after the event, so say the
eruption of Asuvius, everybody who was anywhere near that would be talking about it immediately
afterwards. There'll be loads of different versions. And across the empire, anyone who was within 100
miles of that thing would have, I saw this, and did you see that? And so and some people might write
it down. And gradually, it comes down to Pliny's account, which gets preserved for us. So we've
just got one. So as time goes by, actually, you don't get a proliferation of those
firsthand accounts, they tend to narrow down. Now, you might get more fantastical versions
growing up later on. And the same with stories about Jesus, all kinds of fanciful
gospels, which have got no connection to the canonical gospels, or very little, at least.
So I think that Luke can be writing really early and saying, lots of people are going,
lots of stuff to say about Jesus. But what I'm going to do is I'm going to get inside
into something which is sensible and that you can trust theophilus. If he's writing later,
then actually, I think that there's less chance of having the sort of raw materials he'd be interested
in and trying to produce a historical account. It's one of the things that counts both ways,
maybe. Yeah, so this would be a jab at Purvo. So Richard Purvo's work and stuff. And I think Steve
Mason has written something where he was talking about how Luke Axe looks like it knows of the
93 publication of Josephus. And I know it's a complicated argumentation, but I've thought about
that. It was really interesting because he was showing stuff that shows up that has really no
relevance to the story that we have in Axe, but does play a significant role in Josephus's work,
and showing where those places are where it's lifted. I don't know if you've read his argument
on that or not, but I didn't know if you had a thought on it. Yeah, I mean, it's a respectable
and respected argument. I'm working on something which I hope is going to counteract it and say
actually, we can demonstrate that Luke knows things about history of the early church that he
couldn't have known by any means other than having some kind of a direct connection to it.
So this is still all in play. It's an important question. If Luke does know Josephus, then
that puts him later. It doesn't mean to say that he's necessarily using Matthew. It doesn't mean
that Matthew, if Matthew's using Luke, goes even later than Luke. It's also possible that Luke is
present when Josephus is rehearsing his narrative in Rome. It's all kind of possibilities, but
yeah, it is an important argument. It definitely needs to be dealt with. But the difficulty with
all those things, just remember how difficult it has been to decide whether Matthew's Luke or Luke
is Matthew. We've got loads of material there. And with Josephus, you've got just a few fragments
here and there. There's so much. Oh, this debate. I wonder if it'll ever be settled. I can't imagine.
It will. I promised you it will. I'm not betting that, but if I was, I'd say if we were to reconvene
in 20 years, we'll be in a very different place from where we are now. Just because
you're not going to make progress with a problem if you don't consider all the answers. Is there a
basic approach to problem-solving of any kind is consider all the options and choose the one which
is the most satisfying. We just haven't been doing that. So if you've just been arguing between the
two options that don't fit and even the proponents of those two views mostly admit that there are
problems with them, then, yeah, if you only had those two people long ahead, so you're never going
to make progress, you're never going to be solved. Of course not. But it's a simple problem. There
are only three entities in it. We're pretty confident that Mark is first. How hard can it be?
Now, that's not to say that there's no scope for more complications, different versions of Mark,
Matthew and Luke, different sources shared by them and so on. But then the basic question of who
copied who and to Matthew, Mark and Luke, it is not complicated. We jolly well ought to be able to
solve it and actually it's pretty embarrassing that we haven't until now. Some pretty smart people
have been working on this for a long time, but you can't get the answer if you don't look at,
you know, you can't solve a problem if you don't look at the solution that actually works.
Couple more questions. The Gospel of John, are you with Goodacre on saying John knows all three
synoptics? I think that's possible in its final version. John's Gospel is complicated.
I think it has very early material in it and I think it has late material in it. So
you have to be super careful about saying, you know, John's Gospel knows the synoptics.
Yeah, possibly, but you know, be sure what I'm saying. Yeah, I totally get it. I think there's
at least a couple layers, if not three or so, and how this Gospel developed. And then I think
he wrote a book on Thomas, How Thomas Knows All Four, the Gospel of Thomas, that this would put
it late, whereas Elaine Pagels would try and put it really early probably. I think Goodacre's saying
Thomas is aware of the four Gospels. I don't know if you've read that.
Yeah, I mean, it's the same sort of thing. This is not something that I'm especially
seeing at all. And so I think that it's likely to be the case that Thomas is later than the
four Gospels. But that doesn't mean to say that it doesn't have saying that which are really early,
because it's the nature of the beast with a saying's Gospel like that, that if you find
another saying, you can just stuff it in. Because there's no narrative, it's really easy to add
material you just happen to pick up here there and everywhere. And he might strike it lucky sometimes
and find something really early and he might be dealing with much later material in other cases.
But I would listen to Mark Goodacre rather than me on that subject.
Right. I just interviewed Bart Ehrman recently. He's doing a course on the Gospels. He's calling
it the Unknown Gospels. And I actually was trying to, in a sense, speak to my my skeptic
community because I am a skeptic. But I love this stuff. I love learning about this stuff. And
it's just a fascination of mine, kind of a nerd on it. But you know, there are those skeptics that
are, in my opinion, like I used to be too skeptical. And they say like, if it's not in Paul, then it
just isn't reliable because the Gospels have legendary material. And we just talked about how
you were saying Thomas has possible earlier sayings depends, you know, if you're picking apart,
like, how do we know what's early and what's not? As far as if you were addressing a skeptic who's
saying, well, Paul says this, and it's very ambiguous. He doesn't talk about Jesus' mother.
He doesn't talk about Pontius Pilate. He doesn't talk about who buried Jesus. Like,
he doesn't go into any of this detail. What would you say to a skeptic who's coming over to the
Gospels? And they're like, nope, they're not reliable for historical gleaning. There's so much
legend. You scholars can't even agree on what sayings really went back to Jesus.
What would you say to them? I mean, I'm trying to encourage them to take the Gospels a little
more seriously at least, even if they do think something may not have gone back to the mouth of
Jesus. But what are your thoughts? Well, I think that you have to admit first up that we're dealing
with stuff which is 2,000 years old. And so certainty is really not an option.
But I think that if you and I were having this conversation in two or three years' time,
I might be able to produce a better piece of evidence for showing that Luke is really close
to this material. He seems to know stuff that he couldn't have known other than being very close.
And so, I mean, I think that's really where I get a bit stuck because you need hard evidence
to show an early date. And I can't produce that now because the work is in process. But
if you can show that Luke is the kind of gospel arm of Paul's ministry. So just say for a moment,
if there's a really good argument, which I think there is, that Luke is a companion of Paul,
then he's doing the storytelling part of that mission. Paul doesn't need to tell people the
story of Jesus because that's being provided for them by what Luke is doing.
And yeah, can we talk about this a couple years' time? Yeah, I'd love to because I was going to
ask you just something that came to mind was the idea that if he's a companion of Paul,
why does he need Mark's gospel? And like, so there's a lot of questions that come up when
you start to do these things that make you want to know, you know what I mean?
I'd love to answer that question. So I think what happened, and you know, I have to put a
think in bold capitals, that what happened was I think actually Mark and Luke are pretty contemporary
that Luke starts to write his gospel, he doesn't know Mark at all. And that would explain why
he goes off track from what Mark says about the passion and the resurrection.
Because if he had Mark from the beginning, that it really is asking for quite a lot of trouble
to go against the things that Mark is saying, if Mark is already a respected gospel. So it makes
more sense to me to think that he doesn't know Mark, but he's writing the stories,
gathering his material as he's traveling around the ancient world. Then he comes across Mark,
either in person, because they're both mentioned together in the letter to Philemon,
or someone says, look, you're working, you know, like when you're, have you ever, have you seen
this other podcast that there's other guys doing, people will say that to you all the time. If you're
doing something, people say, do you know this other person is doing the same thing as you?
And so somebody says, well, here's Mark's gospel, and he looks at it and thinks,
you know what, this has got some good stuff that I haven't got. And that's why he chunks it.
He just takes blocks, picks them up and puts them in. If you take those blocks out, you still
have a perfectly viable narrative. It tells a story that makes sense. But with those Mark
and blocks inserted, it's fuller. It's got more information that people are going to be interested
in. Actually, the striking thing about Luke's gospel is it's way long. It's, it's much longer
than a standard scroll length. And that could be because actually it was a more average length
document in the first place. And later on, it had other things added into it. I ought to add that
that was quite a popular view about 100 years ago. Now, I think I'm the only person in the world who
thinks that it's viable. So take that with a pinch of salt. But I would like to try and prove that,
oh, you know, make a case for it sometime later on. I can't tell you how much I appreciate you
giving us your time today and telling us your different ideas. I have friends with all sorts
of different views, you know, Goodacre. Dennis McDonald has a Q plus papious hypothesis,
but I don't think that you, you're probably in line with Goodacre on Q, right?
Not exactly. Not exactly. I am and I'm not. I think that, yeah, for the purposes of the
broad brush, I am. I think he's right that Q is not necessarily because Matthew's using Luke
directly. But I think it would be a mistake to eliminate the idea of sources that are shared
by Matthew and Luke because Matthew, both use Mark. There's going to be other sources floating
around. Why wouldn't they both use them as well? But yeah, if we're keeping it simple,
which is always a good plan, I'm with a good acre in that the Q is not necessary.
Okay. I was going to ask you about that statement about papious. If you thought the two Matthews
there, one of them might be that other material, but it's perfectly possible.
But we're into guesswork. Exactly. Exactly. Well, thank you. I can't tell you how much fun this has
been. Everybody go check out my Patreon. Help support us here because you're watching this
before everybody else for supporting. Go check out Dr. Garo's blog and you can subscribe.
I believe you can subscribe, right? Get emails, notifications.
There's an RSS feed on it. But it's AlanGarry.com has got videos and loads of stuff about the
synoptic problem. Let me go there here just to show everybody. Yeah, there you go. And of
course, I'd love to get into the diddakai with you at some point where we can see what you have to
say. And when we cut out what looks to be that old stuff, there's stuff that's so different and just
primitive, if I could use the term, that goes really early on. I think you and James Tabor agree
on the diddakai being extremely early. I haven't talked to anyone else specifically about it,
but I think everybody should go check out your website. And then Amazon, if they're wanting to,
go check out the Gospel of Matthews dependence on the diddakai. I highly recommend it.
I really sorry, Derek, but I can't recommend that for anybody who isn't a specialist because it will
bore you silly. But I hope to produce a more attractive version of that argument sometime
very soon. But if you are a specialist and you're interested in that kind of thing, by all means,
check it out. Yeah, I look forward to your upcoming publications. Can I throw one more at you just
for the heck of it? Of course. Okay, here is this percopy here we have. And this is I'm just going
to read it to you. If the order were Mark, Luke, then Matthew, that would mean that Luke splits
up Mark's material between Luke 12 and Luke 21. Then Matthew reverts to Mark's structure while
using Luke's language in this particular percopy. Yeah, the way that I would just the way that I
explain that is that it does look like that Luke 12 is written without knowledge of Mark,
according to my theory. But he comes across Mark 13. And he's is making use of that
in Luke 21. So that's why you've got two versions. And then Matthew, you can see he's got
material from Matthew is essentially using Mark there, isn't he? There's just a couple
of little bits that the in red that he's pulled across from from Luke. That's that's my immediate
response to that. But that's not a very well considered one don't admit. No, this was on the
spot, I think to and it wasn't like you had time to actually think that one's look at the Greek,
look at it carefully and things like that. But my friend Steven Nelson, I want to say thanks for
that image because me and him have been working on this stuff for a while and he loves the color
code to show like all of that fun stuff. And if you were to encourage somebody right now who
is interested in these topics, what kind of words would you want to leave them with before we exit
this episode? You can solve this an optic problem. All you need to do is to keep an open mind and to
look at the data. And if you're reading a book, remember that the scholars so far have been
looking at a very narrow range of options. Keep your mind open. Thank you, Dr. Garrow.
And ladies and gentlemen, we are MythVision. Join MythVision's Patreon today to access
hundreds of videos that I have worked hard in high quality content that are not in public domain.
They're only on the Patreon. You will also have direct access to me, referring academics,
questions, ideas, or just want a private chat. You have that access with me. Also,
I'm trying to do more traveling to educate people from more academics and expand what
kind of material I do produce on MythVision. This is a full time gig and you're helping the
community by joining. I'm trying to put together more to educate people who have harmful,
cultic practices or ways in which they're harming society. We are educating them from MythVision
on better understanding these ancient texts and mythologies and history in a way like not many
shows do. So please, I could use your help and you're going to get and benefit a lot by joining as a member.
