Please become a patron of MythFishing Podcast. Get access to everything early. Help us grow.
Ian Mills, New Testament Review Podcast. Thanks for joining me again today here on MythFishing
Brother. My pleasure. I appreciate it. We have so many questions we're going to get into
today. I figure let's start with the ending of Mark. Yes. You really have a lot to say
about this topic. It's one of my favorite topics. It's a fascinating thing that most
people have some familiarity with, at least if they're familiar with the New Testament,
but there's a whole world there to unpack. So, Mark, the second gospel in the New Testament,
the oldest surviving gospel, ends without any appearances of the risen Lord. It ends with
the women are afraid and they run away until no one, and the last line is for they were
afraid. It actually ends with the word for in Greek, the word gar. They ran away and
told no one for they were afraid. Fascinating ending. Jesus is resurrected. We get the angels
telling the women this. Jesus prophesied this earlier in the gospel that he would be raised,
but there's no actual description of that. And this, of course, troubled Christians. Matthew
and Luke, of course, provide, when they are rewriting the gospel of Mark, provide these
resurrection accounts. Scribes also supplied resurrection accounts, new resurrection accounts
to the end of Mark's gospel. And depending on how you count these, there's four, three,
four different endings to Mark's gospel, in addition to 16, eight, where the oldest
manuscripts end. So, how different are those differences? It depends. So there's a range
here. So the oldest manuscripts, Sinaiticus, Vaticanus, they end with just, they ran away
before they were afraid. Then we get what's called the shorter ending. So that's the
shortest ending, the short ending, the original ending, then we get the shorter ending. And
this is, they went off and told everyone immediately. Which is really, really funny,
appended directly to 16, eight. You know, they told no one for they were afraid. They
went off and told Peter immediately. It doesn't make a whole lot of sense. And some people
spotted that. And so this is sort of ending one B and in Codex Bobiensis, our oldest Latin
copy of the gospel of Mark, takes out 16, eight. So there isn't this running away for
they were afraid. They just immediately go tell everyone. And that actually makes sense.
That works as an ending to Mark's gospel, right? So we've got those two. We've got
the shortest ending, the shorter ending, and the shorter ending adjusted to like actually
fit with Mark's gospel, right? Then we get the longer ending. And this is one that if
you've read the King James Bible, or you look at this long section at the end of your
new international version, it's in italics. There's this extra several verses, 12 extra
verses. And it's, it reads like a sort of precky or adaptation or abbreviation or summary
of the resurrection accounts from other gospels. So we have two people walking on a road and
Jesus appears to them just like Luke in the road to Emmaus. We have Jesus appearing to a
series of women. There's a series of three short stories and then Jesus sends the disciples
off, gives a sort of commission to the disciples. And this is partially famous because this
is where Jesus tells the disciples they should drink poison and handle snakes. And so the
Appalachian snake handling churches, this is their verse. They are often King James
onlyists or some sort of Texas receptice. They believe that this longer form of Mark was
original. And that is what lies at the basis of their practice, their snake handling practices,
right? And then there's my favorite ending. And this is the one that is probably least
well known. Codex Washingtoniansis is a manuscript of the New Testament, a Greek manuscript of
the New Testament that's kept in Washington DC, which is why it has that terrible name,
in the Freer Collection. And the, there is something in it called the Freerlogion, which is
named after this collection it's found in. And this is a Mark 16, eight plus the longer
ending, though that those extra 12 verses with the snake handling and the retailing of Emmaus,
but the extra chunk put in there in which Jesus asks the disciples, why are you so
thick? Why aren't you getting this? Why, why are you disbelieving? And they answer and
they explain to him, it's because of the devil. The devil is the reason we failed to
understand what's going on here. It's he's the reason we don't believe. And Jesus says,
well, I took care of that. The devil is taken care of. Now you should believe. And so we
get an explanation. We not only get the resurrection appearances of Jesus, but we get the explanation,
an explanation for this theme that lots of scholars and people in antiquity as well noticed
about the Gospel of Mark. The disciples in Mark are dense. They just don't get it. And
that's true to a lesser degree of the other Gospels. Some of the Gospels give us slightly
more positive portrayal of the Gospels. But in Mark especially, there is this sort of
constant negative portrayal of the disciples. And we have, you know, the epistle of Barnabas,
the second century text, which comments on that. And Barnabas just says, it's just because
they were like ordinary folk. They were simpletons. And that's, and that's fine. But the phyrologian
gives a better answer for, or not a better answer, gives a different answer for why the
disciples are so thick in the Gospel of Mark. It's Satan.
Yeah, I've heard that one before.
The one other thing to note about the phyrologian is it's not only known from this one Greek
manuscript, which is now stored in DC. Jerome knows this. Jerome, the fourth century translator
of the Latin Vulgate famous early Christian Bible scholar, quotes a chunk of the phyrologian
and says he knows this to be in manuscripts of the Gospel of Mark. So this is a very old
extra story about Jesus and the disciples that is in one surviving Bible and was apparently
in more. This is quite interesting. I mean, what that tells me is not only were they solving a
problem, I don't blame them, especially when you start to orthodox your your beliefs into a
cohesive teaching, like we talked about the diatessron and stuff. Taceous, sorry. I think it's
interesting to how early that idea is. And I guess I want to ask you maybe a question probing
something. This is kind of theological, maybe, but it also makes you kind of wonder where Mark is
picking up this you dim-witted disciples. I've heard lots of people say Mark's using Paul.
Paul doesn't always seem to think the apostles are the brightest. They're the best. Oh, you super
apostles. Yeah, could this be? And I know there's no like, we know it is. But do you suspect maybe
that could be an answer for why they're so dim-witted in the earliest known gospel we have?
There's a famous scholar who argues this case. Whedon argued that the gospel of Mark is being
written by a Paulian Christian against the 12 disciples, that they're the villains of the story.
And while that's, you know, interesting, yeah, there's actually a lot to say that that's not the
case. Jesus tells the disciples that ultimately, you know, he says they're going to make mistakes,
they're going to deny him. But he says ultimately, he will meet them in Galilee, and ultimately,
they will receive the same crown of martyrdom as he will. So he, Jesus, foretells the disciples
ultimately are going to come around and be faithful and, you know, live, live, you know,
they're going to ultimately be faithful to Jesus. So I don't think it's a plausible reading of the
gospel of Mark to say that the disciples are actually the villains. It's probably doing some
other work. It's probably, I mean, the Barnabas interpretation, that these are just portraying
the everyman. I think there's probably something to that, that the disciples are in places sort of
the proxy for us are sort of reader. Yeah, exactly. There gets the sneak peek also to see the answer
to the dim way. Right. And I, Mark has sympathy, has empathy for, for the struggle to believe. I
mean, it is the gospel of Mark where we first find the prayer, Lord, help my unbelief, you know,
Lord, I believe, help my unbelief. And so it is sympathetic to the plight of the person who is
struggling to believe, who wants to believe, but has, has trouble. And I, I, I, I find that very
comforting that the earliest teachings of Jesus are, are expressing sympathy and Jesus honors the
prayer, Lord, help my unbelief, that is. And so we get the disciples, these followers of Jesus, who
we are told ultimately are going to confess, ultimately are going to die for their faith,
according to the gospel of Mark. We get them portrayed as people who struggle with unbelief.
And I find that, you know, I find that very comforting. And indeed, I find that moving.
I've even interviewed with Dr. Robert M. Price, and he says, and he's an atheist, and he's like,
look, that, that is, that is, that is a seriously great statement of anyone of anything to say that.
It's really deep. But I got to ask one more in the vein of this, because I've heard people try to say
that, that ending of Mark is actually found in the gospel of John, that its original ending was
somewhere in John. Quick question, I guess, to ask would be, do you honestly think the original
did get cut off and they added what was going on? I see. So some people have proposed that there was,
so Mark 16, 8, there is a proposal that Mark 16, 8 wasn't the original ending of Mark, that what we
find in our oldest manuscripts is actually the, a fragment that the rest of Mark, the ending of
Mark has been broken off, has been lost. And then scribes come along later and add these other
endings to fix that, but that the, the version that ends at 16, 8, they ran away for they were afraid
is not the original ending. And the scholars who argue this have often argued that the gospel of
John or sometimes the gospel of Matthew preserves that author's rewriting of what was originally
there. So they had a copy of Mark that had the extra ending before it got chopped and lost.
I don't think that's likely. I think that's, there's very little reason to believe that
if all of our earliest manuscripts of the, well, if our earliest manuscripts of the Gospel of Mark,
including versions, you know, the oldest Syriac version don't have this ending, it's hard to
imagine how, it's of course possible, but it's hard to imagine that this ending that the Gospel of
Mark with this additional ending actually circulated wide enough for someone like John to get it and
rewrite it. It's possible. But also 16, 8 makes sense as an ending. I mean, I am ending with gar
for the word for some people have suggested doesn't work, but they're getting a little
technical here. Gar is a post positive. It comes at, it doesn't come in the word sentence order,
word order that English uses the word foreign. So it's actually supposed to come after the word
that we translated as coming before. And there are other books that end kind of like this.
Jonah is a famous example. The book of Jonah ends with, and also many animals. And it's just,
they just didn't have the same stylistic sensitivities that we have, perhaps.
Interesting.
I, yeah, I think the Gospel of Mark ends in a beautiful way the way it is.
So I guess in the vein of all this, after reading John J. Collins book, The Apocalyptic Imagination,
and he talks about how there's the, there's light and darkness even before creation to play a role
often in the genre. I wonder if that Satan is the reason blaming Satan or blaming darkness,
so to speak, because the Gospels aren't apocalyptic genre in the same way, but they have an eschatological
apocalyptic sense tone today. Probably because their founder had this tone. I just say that to
say like, I wonder if they're building off Satan was the reason behind it, because a lot of times
the battle between light and darkness is often a thing in these type of genres. What are your
thoughts on that?
Yeah, um, obviously the Gospels are not apocalypses in the generic sense of
these are the stories about somebody going to heaven and getting a vision and coming back.
But I think they very much fit into apocalyptic in a number of important ways. These are Jesus
revealing knowledge, revealing teaching to his followers, which is Jesus is,
is for the Gospel writers, revealing God's truth to the disciples. And that is the definition of
apocalypse, right? That is the unveiling of a truth, the unveiling of knowledge of information.
And it also fits into the apocalyptic dark versus light world view, like you mentioned. Jesus is
having constant conflicts with unclean spirits in the Gospel of Mark, with demons, with Satan in
the Gospel of Luke. There is this conflict between the forces of light and the forces of darkness.
And John, of course, is the most the most the best example of this. In fact, John has often been
described as a repudiation of Second Temple apocalyptic literature or possibly Gnostic apocalyptic
literature, depending on how you want to situate it. Because in the Gospel of John, Jesus says things
like no one has gone up to heaven to see these things except for the one who's come down, namely
myself. He is explicitly contrasting himself with people who've claimed to have apocalyptic visions.
And he says, you don't find truth through visions. You don't find truth, he even says in John 5,
you don't find truth just in the books of Moses. Although he doesn't say the books of Moses are
bad, he says they testify about me, but he says you don't find truth anywhere else but me. I am
the way, I am the truth, I am the life. And these visions, these purely scriptural acts of Jesus
things, those things going to them for truth is the wrong thing to do, you should come to me.
And so it's placing himself as the source of all truth explicitly in contradiction to, in this
case, apocalypses, which is fascinating. So it is itself a kind of, you know, apocalypse. Although
telling the story of the earthly life of Jesus. Wow, this is interesting. There's so many questions
I have. Thank you. Yeah.
