Do the Gospels contradict each other? And is the death of Jesus fictionalized to mimic
the death of Socrates? Today we are examining this very closely with Dr. Dennis R. McDonald.
Get his book right now. I promise you it takes a deep dive showing you that there's a literary
creation on behalf of the authors of the Gospels to invent Jesus and make him more heroic than
the heroes of the past, such as Socrates. Socrates died without fear. He faced it like a man,
if you will. Well, Jesus is painted in similar light in the Gospel of Luke. However, that Gospel
doesn't look like the other Gospels. And if you're serious about checking out
what the scholarship has to say on these matters, Dennis R. McDonald is your guy.
Dr. McDonald, thank you again. Really appreciate you.
This has been. There are many Christians living in a world that you don't live in on a daily basis,
that I see on a daily basis, who want to scream and yell through the Internet with
cap locks on and say, the Gospels do not contradict the passion narratives, the death
narratives of Jesus as burial has empty tuned the whole nine. Those differences are just
different camera angles, different witnesses. And if you ever interviewed these witnesses,
you know, they take this so serious and literal. If you ever interviewed these witnesses,
they're going to give you different details, especially if it's really true where you really
should see red flags as if they all told the same story. Then you could say there's a conspiracy
or they're conspiring to try and like unite on something. But because they're different,
this helps prove our case even more that it's true. You're doing something so radically different
than just it blows the whole rug. Just pull it out and we're all going to fall over.
So we're comparing the death of Socrates to the death of Jesus or really we're comparing
the death of Jesus to Socrates because Socrates already existed for millennia, not really,
but centuries. So we're going to be doing that and how this contradicts other narratives.
Well, thank you, Derek. I am not sympathetic to the people that are fundamentalists and require
homogenizing the text and saying that there's no conflict between them or meaningful conflict
between them because that means you're not understanding anything about them.
Now, my book Synopses, Epic Tragedy and the Gospels is basically in volume one,
a synopsis of the Synoptic Gospels and they're arranged chronologically, not canonically. So
you can actually see going across the page left to right in English, the development of Jesus'
traditions from the Q document to Mark, then to Matthew and to Luke. And the mark and account
of the death of Jesus is influenced by Homer's Iliad and the death of Hector.
And the parallels are really quite striking. And in the mini course we put together,
we spent a good bit of time on that topic and that's true also in the book.
But if one were to take a look in the synopsis at the very same passages in Mark and then read
across the page and look at what's going on in Luke, you will see that the story of the death
of Jesus in Luke is remarkably different. And in some cases, it removes the Hector-like images
because the death of Hector is tragic. The death of Socrates is tragic too, but is more noble
than the death of a young man and so on. And so many people have noticed, of course, the
difference between the Luke and Passion narrative and the Markan one. And I think Luke also knew
it from Matthew. And we can look at some evidence for that. But the bigger point is that it's not
coming from a different source, as some have thought. It's not coming from an eyewitness who
simply was looking at it differently. It's coming from a second century intellectual
who's writing some 50 years after the death of Jesus and is wanting to make Jesus' death noble
the same way that the death of Socrates was noble. And we're going to read about three pages that
includes quite a bit of information, both from Plato's understanding of the death of
and trial of Socrates and the way that Luke cleverly has recrafted the Passion narrative of
earlier Gospels to make Jesus compatible to Socrates. So we're reading from page 450 in the
synopsis. The Last Supper in Mark consists of eight verses, about 146 words. Luke's account,
however, spans more than 20 verses, about 410 words, that is about three and a half times as much.
Whereas Mark began the Last Supper darkly with Jesus predicting that one of the 12 would betray
him, Luke begins with him saying, I have eagerly desired to eat this Passover with you before I
suffer. For I tell you, I will never again eat it until it is fulfilled in the kingdom of God. So
he is hopeful about his future after he dies. The result in Luke is a sustained period of Jesus'
instruction to the disciples in the form of a symposium with several similarities to Socrates
last day with his disciples, according to Plato's phyto. Mark had fashioned Jesus' agony at Gethsemane
after Odysseus' agony in Searcy's bedroom when he learned that he must sail to the end of the
earth to summon dead Thereseus from Hades. Luke retained some of Mark's parallels from the epic,
as one can see by comparing the two Gospels in the synopsis. But his account of Jesus'
prayer at Gethsemane removes every vestige of angst from the scene. For example, Luke transforms,
transfers the motif of agony from Jesus to the disciples who fell asleep, quote, unquote,
for sorrow. Whereas Jesus falls on the ground in grief in Mark, Jesus kneels,
a gesture of dutiful submission as if to royalty. Luke also softens Jesus' request by
introducing it with, if you wish, like a faithful subordinate he is willing to do the will of his
father. Mark and Luke both refer to Jesus' death as a cup. Socrates, of course, drank a cup of poison
and faced his death with confidence. Read there, would you, Derek, he withdrew. He withdrew from
them about a stone's throw. Nelt and Prang said, Father, if you wish, take this cup from me,
but may your will be done, not mine. Similarly, Socrates greeted his death
and welcomed his death. Plato emphasized Socrates' impassivity throughout the phyto.
For the true philosopher, death is less fearful than for others. Gregory E. Sterling,
another scholar, cites Seneca's claim that the circumstances of his death changed Socrates'
soul so little that they did not even change his expression. This is how Seneca expressed it, Derek.
To the very end, no one saw Socrates either joyful or sad in such vagaries a fortune he was constant.
Although Luke inherited from Mark Jesus' statement of submission to the will of God,
Jesus' prayer resonates also with Socrates' statement to Crito if it is pleasing to the
God's so be it. In Mark, the Jewish council convicted Jesus of blasphemy and delivered
him bound to Pilate, but Luke omitted any reference to his chains. In fact, he has never shackled
in Luke, and in this respect, he resembles the dying Socrates. Moreover, Mark is silent about
the charges against Jesus, but Luke makes them explicit. So Derek, here we go. Accusers brought
these charges. Socrates is guilty of corrupting the youth. Jewish authorities began to accuse
him and said, we have found this person perverting our nation. And by the Greek expression for the
accusation is very similar in both. And of not honoring the gods whom the city of Athens honors,
but other new deities. Prohibiting the giving of tribute to Caesar and proclaiming himself to be
Messiah, a king. Those charges against Socrates, so we're so well known that Luke's evoking of
them here would be a trigger to see Jesus as a Socratic character. Luke's reader knows that
the charges against Jesus are groundless. It was the Jewish authorities who were perverting the
people. And even though Jesus was the Messiah, he was not a king in a political sense that could harm
Rome. Moreover, the claim that he opposed tribute to Caesar is pernicious. And I refer to other things
in the Gospel, but I want to go to a Xenophon's treatment of the death of Socrates. Luke's pilot
declared Jesus to be innocent of the charges. But the religious authorities insisted that he,
like Socrates, was fomenting rebellion with this teaching. Derek, and this is Xenophon
defending the Socrates. But they were even more insistent and said he disturbs the people by
teaching throughout all Judea, beginning from Galilee as far as this very place. On hearing
this, Pilate asked if the man were a Galilean. And when he learned that he fell under Herod's
authority, he sent him to Herod Antipas, who was in Jerusalem during those days. When Herod
saw Jesus, he was overjoyed because for some time he had wanted to see him because of what he had
heard about him. He was hoping to see some sign performed by him. Jesus' hearing before Antipas
further demonstrated his innocence because not even this fox who wanted to kill him in the past
found any cause for putting him to death. So Pilate, again, if you would read.
Pilate summoned the chief priests, the rulers, and the people and said to them,
you brought me this person as someone who perverted the people. And after examining him
before you, I found this person guilty of none of your charges against him, nor did Herod, for
he sent him back to us. Behold, nothing punishable by death has been done by him. So I will
discipline him and release him. The crowd then asked Pilate to release Barabbas to crucify Jesus.
Xenophon's defense of Socrates in the first book of his memorabilia
begins with the charges against him at the Athenian trial, and he counters,
no one ever saw Socrates do or heard him say anything impious or sacrilegious.
As a matter of fact, he avoided ontological speculations and focused on ethics. So here we
have an extended quotation from Xenophon. He always discussed human goals. What is godly?
What is ungodly? What is good? What is shameful? What is just? What is unjust? What is self-restraint?
What is madness? What is courage? What is cowardice? What is a city? What is a politician? What is
government of people? And what is the governor of the people? I'm amazed that the Athenians could
ever have been persuaded that Socrates was not conscientious with respect to the gods. He who
never said or did anything impious about the gods, whatever things he said or did, were those of
someone who in speech and action actually was and should be regarded as most religious. So Pilate
in saying that Jesus has done nothing wrong is giving an apology similar to what we find with
Xenophon. Luke added to Mark's account of the crucifixion, the following famous statement,
Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they do. Even in antiquity, readers differently
identified whom Jesus was forgiving. The parallels in the phyto point it to the Roman soldiers.
The Roman soldiers were merely carrying out their orders. They did not know what they were doing.
According to Plato, it felt to a lackey to administer the hemlock to Socrates. On delivering
the poison, he said that he would not blame the philosopher if he were furious with him,
but he was grateful that Socrates understood who was at fault. You are angry with me.
You are not angry with me, but with others, for you know who are truly guilty, that is,
the Athenian votes, not the men. The men then left in tears. Socrates bathed him farewell
and told the others, Derrick. How courteous this person is. The whole time he has come to me,
occasionally has talked with me and has been the most agreeable of men.
Now he weeps for me so nobly. Jesus and Socrates harbored no hostility for those responsible
for carrying out their executions. The guilt belonged to others, and that doesn't appear in
another gospel. Mark and Matthew both state that the two criminals crucified with Jesus
reviled him. But in Luke, one of them rebuked the other. Do you not fear God? After all,
you are under the same judgment. We quite justly for we are receiving punishments appropriate for
what we have done. But this man has done nothing wrong. He says, Jesus, remember me when you enter
your kingdom. He said to him, truly, I tell you today, you will be with me in paradise.
The temporal reference in Jesus' response is not some indefinite future, but today. And the spatial
reference is not to an earthly kingdom, but to paradise, an idyllic heavenly garden, the peaceful
abode of the righteous dead. In other words, Jesus expects immediately after his death to find eternal
bliss today, even though he's not going to be raised for three days. Luke's Jesus thus resembles
Plato's Socrates again, who spoke to his followers at length about the delights his soul would enjoy
as soon as he left the body. He himself summed up his teachings by saying that after I drink the
drug, I will no longer stay with you, but will depart for the happiness of the blessed. That
very day his soul would be with, quote, the good and the wise God in a better life. The same fate
awaits all who have purified their souls from defilement. Instead of quoting Psalm 21,2, and
its reference to divine dereliction, namely, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me?
In Luke, one reads, Father, into your hands I commit my spirit. After saying this, he expired.
Confidence in God's acceptance here has replaced anguish at God's absence. That is a very important
observation. Mark's Jesus thinks God has abandoned him. Luke's Jesus says, I am coming to the Father.
Similarly, in the phyto, immediately before taking the poison, Socrates offered a prayer to the gods
that his departure may be fortuitous. Thus I pray and may it come to pass. His final words were,
Crito, we owe a Sclepius a cock. Pay it and do not forget. The Sclepius was the God of healing,
and Socrates owed him a sacrifice and gratitude that his soul was being healed through the death
of his body. Socrates and Jesus thus prayed and then confidently commended their souls to God.
In Luke's Passion, a declaration of innocence has replaced the ironic gloat of the Centurion,
which Mark probably modeled after the gloat of Achilles over the corpse of Hector. So here we go
there. Now, when the Centurion who had stood facing him saw that in this way he breathed his last,
that's Mark. Now, when the Centurion saw what had happened, he glorified God saying,
Oh, sure. This mortal was a son of a God. He's dead. Surely this man was righteous. Now, the Greek
expressions are very similar. But instead of saying he's a mocking that he's a son of a God,
the Centurion says this man is Dikaios. Dikaios is the word that is used for Socrates
over and over again for being innocent. And you see this in both Plato and in Xenophon.
Compare this statement of Luke's Centurion with the last sentence in the phyto.
Such was the end, O Echikrates, of our man, of our comrade, a man, so we might say, who of all
those whom we have tried was the best, the wisest, and the most righteous, Dikaiotatu. It's the
comparative, more righteous, but it's still Dikaios, the same word that we have in Luke.
This defense of Socrates' righteousness underscores the injustice of his execution.
Luke's Centurion likewise recognized the injustice of Jesus' execution when he said,
Surely this man was Dikaios. Just one final thing. In the phyto, Socrates is surrounded by his
companions, takes the hemlock, and soon dies. Only in Luke does Jesus die in the cross surrounded
by his friends. In Mark, the disciples all had left already at Gethsemane, but these people
are surrounded. So here we have an intentional argument with the Gospel of Mark inside the Bible
by saying the Marken depiction of the death of Jesus is insufficient,
and Jesus' death is more like the death of Socrates, the philosopher. And it's not
that Jesus thinks God had abandoned him. Rather, he has every confidence that his death is going to be
received by his father, and that he's not going to fear death, and he promises eternal life
immediately to the righteous thief. This is really brilliant, memesis, but sorry friends,
this is not history. Dennis, this is really good. I mean, it's a shock. It's obvious when you read
Mark and Matthew, the disciples flee. They run. They're afraid for their lives. They're not near
there. And in Luke, they are. You could call that a contradiction if you're trying to say that
they somehow match. But if we're reading them as authors with creativity, right, which is not
the common thing that I'm engaging with, usually people are trying to homogenize or harmonize these
issues. But these contradict. However, I find it really interesting how they made them like Socrates
in so many ways. And there are so many connections in the Greek words. I hope everybody watched,
saw those words on the screen, saw the Greeks, saw these things, and thought, wow, okay,
there's something going on here. This is cool. And this brings me to almost a different question
my mind went here. I asked Paul Fredrickson, what can we be certain about Jesus historically speaking?
And like, what can we be almost certain about? And she said, well, what I would do, if I was
going to try and figure out something most most confident about Jesus historically is I'd see,
I'd look at our gospels, right, factor in what the gospel say and see if they match in line up
with Paul. So she's saying, if we can take this and try to line it up with Paul, and she says,
I'm almost certain, like the most certain thing we could say is Jesus was crucified.
She said, honestly, and it was really good hearing her say this, because some people think maybe she's
conservative, maybe she's got a dated scholarship. She said, after that, everything's up for grabs,
everything. That's a powerful thing coming from Paula. And I know that you agree,
you would say amen to that, because that's kind of the eureka moment I'm in right now.
It's like, I almost want to say, I don't want to put too much, I mean, sure, he's a Jewish guy,
like of course, and he probably got in trouble, probably, probably, but you wouldn't put too
much strength into those categories of what he probably did, as you would say, this guy got
crucified. Everything else is up for grabs, because here we have these stories. And even the earliest
one, Mark, is riffing off of the Greek epic. And then Luke wants to go, sure, sure, sure,
but in this case, I want Socrates. And there's liberty to take their own views here. So
thank you for presenting this, but there's just no way to have him laying down crying to God,
begging God to take this away from him, to kneeling and having on his knee, to dying in
front of his disciples, but not dying in front of his disciples. My God, my God, why have you
forsaken me? And then he surely was a son of God to this man was innocent. And into your hands,
I commend my spirit. I mean, like, come on. I so admire Paula Fredrickson, especially her read
on Paul. And for that reason, I wish you were in this room so we could talk about what it was
that crucified Jesus. Now, crucifixion, obviously, is a Roman form of punishment. And it's to make
a public statement. It's not like giving people poison like Socrates, or beheading them. This
is a display. It's a public hanging, if you will. Now, was it there? Did he offend the Romans? Or
did he before? Did he offend Jews? And what kind of Jews might he been offended by? Or, yeah,
who would have, you know, had an issue with Jesus? And I can't answer for her. I can answer for
myself. But actually, that isn't what we're talking about. But yes, I think that's right,
when you have the soup, the crucifixion, everything's up for grabs. But of course,
the historian wants to know, well, why was he crucified? And so that may be a different time
to talk. It's that would take us actually to the Q document, I think, and to Paul's encounter with
Judaizers and his attitude toward Judaism himself, because I think that reflects
something of the early Jesus movement in Palestine. But that's a different story. But I love how
Paula put it. After the crucifixion, everything's up for grabs. And that's what you can see in
the synoptics. They are really struggling to make sense of all this.
