Please consider becoming a patron of MythVision Podcasts, you'll get early access to every
video including this amazing one, and you can ask me personal questions, private message
me anything you'd like.
We are MythVision, welcome back to MythVision Podcast, we're going to talk about the
Table of Nations.
We're talking to Russell Gamerican right now, Borosis and Genesis, Manito and Exodus is
the book.
See the description for more details, this right now obviously is going to take us into
a next chapter of the book, and I wanted to take us slowly through this as much as possible
because it's a lot of material to cover.
Dating of the Pentateuch or even the Hebrew Bible is a very, very difficult process, it's
not easy.
It takes a lot of reading far and wide and detective skills so to speak to try and pick
up on are there fingerprints that we can see that give us implications on dating some of
these ideas.
Today's episode is going to be on the Table of Nations Russell, but I think it'll be interesting
also to poke at a theological theme I think in this notion of the Table of Nations.
Basically you would, in your chapter you push things way into the 273 BCE Hellenistic
era under Ptolemy, Sotère, the first if I'm not mistaken somewhere in this time range
approximately, but the point is you're trying to date this and when I'm reading it, I'm
at the same time looking at what you're dating, I'm thinking, okay, what are the theological
implications of making all these descendants come from Noah and then claiming out of all
those descendants, God chose this one guy, Abraham, technically when he gets to the next
chapter, you know, he chooses one guy named Abraham and then he immediately off the gates
like, hey, I'm going to bless all the nations through you, okay, in you all the blessings,
all the nations will be blessed.
What's going on?
Table of Nations, Shem, Ham, and, was it, and Japheth, so these three, if I could use
the term patriarchs of nations, tell us what is the Table of Nations in Genesis 10 and
what's going on?
Well, okay, first off, in terms of the story background, Noah survives the flood in the
art with his three sons and their wives and probably some children.
And the names of the sons are Shem, Ham, and Japheth, and in the Table of Nations, they
talk about their 70 descendants, each of which was the ancestor of their own nation, like
Ham was the ancestor of the Egyptians and Japheth was the ancestor of the Ionians or
Greeks.
So each nation had their own ancestor, what's called an eponymous ancestor, it's where
the whole nation or ethnic group is named after one alleged ancestor.
Now as Van Cedar pointed out as early as 1992, this is a very Greek sort of a thing.
John Van Cedar?
John Van Cedar.
I got him right here.
Yeah, very good.
So he devoted several pages to this topic, how the Greeks, they had eponymous
ancestors to the various nations that that they had, for instance, the Greeks, the
Hellenes, they were descended from Hellas, or the Medians were, which is kind of a Persian
people, the Persians were descended from Perseus, the Medians from, from Medea, and
so on and so forth.
Every nation had an ancestor that, by coincidence, had that same name.
And you have the same thing going on with the Table of Nations, which shows the Greek
influence, I would say a late Greek influence.
John Van Cedar sees all of this happening, you know, 500 BC or whatever before the Jews
really had contact with the Greeks.
But I see all of this happening in the Hellenistic era after Alexander the Great conquered the
East and ruled Judea, and all sorts of Greek influences were present and throughout the
East.
So, so it is, it is a Greek sort of a phenomenon.
And in my book, Borosis and Genesis, I was mainly looking at the Table of Nations for
its chronological clues as to when this table could have been constructed.
Because there's three different groups of nations.
There's a bunch of descendants of Shem, which were basically grouped around Mesopotamia.
And then the descendants of Ham were basically grouped around Egypt and Ethiopia, Arabia,
and North Africa.
And then the Japhethites were like all around Asia Minor and the Greek world.
And so they divided the world into three parts.
And I wondered when did those three groups exist naturally?
You know, when were they in existence as political alliances or, you know, and if you
can find out when that took place, then you can date when the Table of Nations was.
You bring up an interesting note and I did, I'll be honest, I did not go like deep into
trying to look up the things that you're talking about because it's complex.
But you mentioned something like one of the sun's curse.
If I'm not mistaken, we know Canaan obviously has a bad curse, but one of the three main
Ham, I think it was, was cursed.
If I'm not mistaken, Ham's son, Canaan, was cursed.
OK, so because Canaan looked upon Noah's nakedness, which is all very euphemistic.
But because of this, God placed him under a curse to be forever in servitude.
Yeah, so that that whole you mentioned this and you say only during this time do these
political entities are the two ruling over the one, so to speak.
And you think somehow evidence to say, look at this timing in which this is happening.
This might fit the bill.
But I guess today it'll be interesting to hear your take showing as we speak, like what
you're discussing here, how this might be Hellenistic.
I'm also interested in going like, what do you think the point was?
Like, why do you think they wrote it?
Obviously, this is not literally true.
That these guys descend from this guy.
And like, this is not an accurate real genealogy of really what happened to these
nations, but it seems like it does have a political influence,
biblically, on trying to say to the readers of this book or books to say, look,
all these nations were all related in some sense.
We're all connected to each other.
They, you know, they are the other nations.
But in some way, we're connected in this known region of the world, this known
world that we're part of.
And I kind of wanted you to maybe comment on some of that stuff if you didn't mind.
Sure.
Well, as far as the reason why they have the Table of Nations,
part of it has to do with the Greek
literary genre that is found in Genesis one through 11, which biblical scholars
call the primordial history.
It's basically the history of the pre-flood world from the creation in Genesis
one through the flood and then the immediate after, after world when,
when you have these, these nations.
Well, there was a genre of literature among the Greek philosophers.
It was called periphusis, which it means about physics or about nature.
And it's trying to figure out how the present world came to exist.
And part of that exploration by the natural philosophers was cosmogony.
How did the universe originate?
And a lot of them thought started out in chaos.
God, some divine intelligence appeared that imposed some order on things.
And then you've got the stars and the sky and the earth and all of that stuff.
And then another aspect of this was they wanted to figure out the origins
of humans. So they have stories about how, where the first humans came from
and other life forms.
Another part of that was what you could call a polydogony or sociogony,
the origins of society, the origins of civilization.
Where did inventions come from?
And where did the nations come from?
How did our nations today?
How did they originate?
And some of these philosophers, they came up with theories of migrations,
how the different people came to where they are today, the different language groups.
Hecateus of Miletus, he created the first map of the world to assign
where all the different nations were located.
And so this Greek interest in their origins created this whole type of literature
that explored the ideologies and the origin of inventions, where did agriculture come from
and everything.
They were curious about what are the causes of our present world.
And part of that was organizing the nations into kind of genealogies and
figuring out how they got to where they were today, their known world.
So I think that part of the motivation for the table of nations was that the people
who wrote the first 11 chapters of Genesis, they read a lot of Greek philosophy and a
lot of studies and speculations about how the present world came to exist.
And as part of that reading, they saw some of the Greek philosophers who kind of catalog
the nations and tried to explain societal institutions.
And they imitated that.
They were trying to compete with weak literature.
They were trying to do everything that the Greeks did.
And the Babylonians and the Egyptians.
So there was a competition going on.
And I think the table of nations was part of that.
One of the things that is like a recent discussion I've been having on this topic,
if you will, what what role do the nations play in the biblical scheme?
It's obvious that the authors are writing from an Israelite point of view.
And the nations kind of play like a backup character, so to speak, in this narrative,
because it's from the Israelite view.
But do you see any of the literature biblically tapping into the table of nations concept?
What I mean to say is, are there any books throughout the Old Testament that seem to
heart back at this table of nations and say, you remember the dividing of the nations?
We're not always going to be divided.
One day the nations that were divided and allotted their own gods will come in and
see that our God is true.
Do you see that as playing into the table of nations scheme in any way?
They're harping at this idea that when the tower of Abba and the split took place,
the reason why we're all separated is different tribes and tongues and blah, blah, blah.
We're really all one family, but one day they'll come back and realize the truth.
Do you see anything like that?
Well, yes, and it's a little bit complicated because there are more than one groups of authors
at work that utilize the table of nations.
For instance, I'm going to skip forward ahead to the Enoch literature.
The Enoch literature in a couple places refer to the 70 angels who were over the 70 nations.
So now the table of nations has 70 figures and 70 nations.
So the Jews and the authors of the Enoch literature, they realize that there are 70 biblical
nations and each one of them in the Enoch literature had their own angel.
Now, if you go to Deuteronomy 32 verses 8 through 9, each one of the nations had their own God.
In fact, I'm going to read that at it.
Please.
It's very controversial.
And when I say controversial, it was controversial in ancient times.
The reading says, when Elion, which is the Hebrew word, meaning the most high God, gave the nations
their inheritance, when he separated humanity, he fixed the boundaries of the peoples according
to the number of sons of God.
And for Yahweh's proportion is his people and Jacob is his allotted heritage.
So in this two verses, Elion, who is the highest God, he has the sons of God, who you also see
in Genesis 6 verses 124, God has a lot of sons and daughters running around.
He has offspring and each one of these 70 offspring, each of them have their own nation and people.
Now, this goes clear back to the literature of Ugarit, the Baal cycle, the Baal Epic, where the
supreme God, who is El, he has 70 sons and daughters by one of his consorts.
Might be more than one, but yeah, anyway.
So the idea of the 70 sons of El, that goes clear back to the ancient Canaanite religion.
Now Elion, that's the highest God.
El is just, it kind of became synonymous with God.
Really El was a Canaanite, what we would say today, a pagan God, certainly different from
Yahweh, and he has 70 sons and daughters.
And evidently, one of those sons was Yahweh.
Yahweh was a lesser God, a minor God, one of the kids, you know, probably a middle child,
I would say, and you know, how messed up middle children can be.
So, and you have that in Genesis 1 through 11, you have a supreme God, the God of creation.
God who created the world in six days.
And then you have the sons of God, these lesser gods who are down on earth.
Some of them think some of the daughters of men are pretty hot.
So they have marriages and they have offspring that are giants.
And these are all these lesser terrestrial gods, of which Yahweh is one.
Yahweh makes his first appearance, not in chapter one, which has the supreme God.
He appears in chapters two and three, where he's this kind of minor God who's living in Eden.
He doesn't really know everything that's going on.
You know, Adam, why aren't you, what are you hiding for?
What happened here?
Cain, where's your brother?
You know, he's not omnipotent.
He's not omniscient.
He's localized on in this land, this one land on earth.
And there are undoubtedly other gods and other lands all around earth.
He's just, he just has one little corner of it.
So, so you have a picture where Yahweh is one of the 70 sons of God.
Now, this was, this is controversial, including in the reference in Deuteronomy,
because the Masoretic text, it changes it, it changes it from the sons of God,
which has very good textual witnesses, they change it into the sons of Israel.
And then I think there's another text that has the sons of Adam.
And all scholars recognize these are people who are modifying the original,
which is way too controversial.
And they're making it sense of somebody else, not the Supreme God,
how old you are.
Have you looked at the, sorry, I got to echo,
looked at the other source in Deuteronomy 32, 43.
Have you seen that discrepancy as well?
That's in the Dead Sea Scroll, Qumran.
Right.
The sons of God also appears in verse 43.
Yeah, I can pull up a really cool image.
My friend, Stephen actually produced one.
Yeah, this is a really, really, I think he did a really good job on this.
So give him a pat on the back, ladies and gentlemen.
And this is the image here.
I'm going to make it full screen if I can.
Let's see if that even matters.
And it doesn't really matter.
Same size.
So anyway, you got the exact point up top, 32, 8,
where he talks about sons of Israel and the Masoretic here.
And it says sons of God and the Dead Sea Scrolls, as well as the Septuagint.
It might say angels of God or sons of God, either way.
Right.
But in the Deuteronomy 32, 43, rejoice,
so nations with his people for hill revenge, it's all human.
Like this is not divine, but then when you get in the Dead Sea Scrolls,
he doesn't say rejoice, so nations with his people.
He says, rejoice, oh heavens with him.
And let all the sons of God worship him.
What the heck is going on here for hill avenge the blood of his sons?
Oh, what?
Like, what is this?
You know, this is a Dead Sea Scroll Deuteronomy.
You know, right?
Well, in the euguritic text,
Al is pretty much equated with the heavens.
Sometimes, as I recall, they're used in parallel.
So, yeah, it's talking about multiple sons of God.
Right.
And and this this recognizes it here in Deuteronomy.
There's in the Psalms, you have, I forget, with Psalm, I think.
Probably Psalm 82.
I could look at it.
You have a divine council,
which is in the in the Baal epic.
Al had a divine council of his seventy cents.
And so you have this divine council in heaven.
And you're right, Psalm 82.
And it was in the gods in this divine council.
They were portrayed as mortal.
One of the gods was going to was going to die
and and and be overthrown by another God.
And you have other traditions where in some biblical
traditions, El Elion is a father of Yahweh and others.
Yahweh has been promoted to the chief of the divine council.
So it's all very smarted.
Yeah, yeah, so it's all very controversial.
I think what's going on is.
In Genesis, you have a very consistent picture where you have
El Elion in Genesis 14, who is also the Elohim of chapter one,
the supreme God, the creator of heaven and earth.
He is in his own category.
And then you have these different sons of God, including this
minor guy, Yahweh, who was just over Israel.
And all the gods get along in Genesis.
All the nations get along in Genesis.
But once you get to Exodus through Joshua,
the the officials in charge of the Yahweh cult,
they didn't like that because their God had been demoted.
He was he was kind of a second-rate God underneath the Creator God.
So in the Ten Commandments and elsewhere, they identify the two.
They say Yahweh is Elohim, is El Elion.
All of these are different names for the same God.
They conflated and that was their way of making Yahweh,
their local God, the top God of the whole universe.
Right. Now, in Genesis, this local God, Yahweh,
he walks around, Abraham sees him with his companions coming from the distance.
Sarah slaughters a lamb and they have dinner together, have a conversation.
You know, for the cosmic God creator of the universe,
doesn't quite seem appropriate.
But then in Exodus through Joshua,
God is given Yahweh is given all these cosmic aspects.
All the time, you can't look on the face of Yahweh without being destroyed.
And he's a fire. He's a fiery creature.
He is a fire inside the tab.
They take over all these cosmic elements and assign them to Yahweh
and Exodus through Joshua.
So you have two different sets of authors that are kind of competing,
have competing views and Genesis lost miserably.
In the later books, Yahweh kicks the butt,
every divine butt of every other God is at war with all of them.
They're not all equals. They're not all, they don't play nice.
Yahweh is the only good one and everyone else should be destroyed.
And then later on, you get monotheism, where they say these other gods,
they're not just wicked. They're not just evil.
They don't even, they're not even real.
So you have this progression where the Yahweh cult in Jerusalem are garrison.
They want a monopoly on the whole God business.
And this monopolistic tendency makes polytheism bad.
All the 70 gods of the nations, they're all terrible.
There's only one God worth worshiping.
And eventually there's only one God. And then we have monotheism.
And look at where we are with all our monotheistic religions at war with each other.
You know, the benevolent polytheism of Genesis,
which actually comes from Plato, but that's a long story.
This benevolent polytheism where you're nice to all the other gods
and you respect other people, then you want peace and harmony.
I think that was much better than what we have today or back then.
So I think it's important to say that there are source material here
with various ideas about God, and obviously they're probably
bringing in different traditions about how they view and understand God.
Deuteronomy is different than Leviticus.
Leviticus would be different than, say, Genesis.
Genesis is, you know, it's documentary hypothesis stuff.
The difference between you and them would be dating
and how you where you place the source material.
You're not in disagreement, ultimately, on the idea of source material
and the documentary hypothesis as in like the compilation of text
and redactors trying to fuse concepts and whatnot.
You're 100 percent in line with scholarship on that.
The difference between you and them is one is trying to argue,
for example, I think it's P is 900 B.C.
And you're going, eh, let's try Hellenistic Age.
And so your dating is totally different.
That doesn't mean, and I want to say this so no one gets.
I don't want to poison the well because someone might go,
what, that's totally in disagreement with these guys.
You're also a little more complicated than that, because it sounds like,
oh, well, you're putting everything as if it was all written
and it all came into existence at 300 B.C. or 273.
But really what you're suggesting is the compilation of a lot of this literature.
Some of it may have been created during this time.
Some of it might be much older,
but the idea that the composition takes place of lots of this literature
and that there's a unified here is our legal code.
Here is our book.
This is what we have is what happens by 273 B.C.
According to you, approximately give or take a decade or so.
So that's what I want everyone to know.
Back to the table of nations.
This was important to get the backdrop.
These Cain, Ham, Shem, Japheth and all their descendants,
there's three patriarch figures and they all have descendants
who are patriarch figures of multiple descendants and on and on and on we go.
They all get different gods.
Now, what you mentioned earlier, the geographic location,
one seems to be more Greek along the coastlands,
hints of more of a Greco-Roman Philistine, if I could use the term
as Greeks and then others seem to be more of the
Egyptian and Afro, the African regions and theirs.
And then, of course, you have a different region.
These three patriarchs seem to be the geographical
centrality for each of these three groups.
And within the subheads of those,
you have different parties in those categories, so to speak.
Am I on the right track here?
Yeah, yeah.
Now, I have multiple lines of evidence that point to the penitent
being written around 272 BC, 273, 272 BC, somewhere through that.
Now, at that time in that region,
see Alexander the Great, he conquered the east between like 335
to 325 BC, and then he died of probably malaria and Babylon.
And then his generals all fought over the scraps of the NMPAC.
And those fights went on for decades.
But at the time that I say that the penitent was finally written down,
maybe drawing on some older oral traditions,
but this is when it was written down.
There were two major kingdoms in the north.
There were the Seliusians who were centered at Babylon.
Or while their capital moved around, let's say Mesopotamia and northern Syria.
And in the south, there was the Ptolemaic Empire,
which was following me the first Sodor and then telling me
the second Philodelsus, who created the Great Library of Alexandria.
So in Daniel, you have the king of the north, which is the Seliusians,
and the king of the south, which is the Ptolemies,
because those were the two major kingdoms.
Well, in the table of nations,
two of the groups of nations correspond very well
with the Seliusians and the Ptolemies.
The Sons of Shem are very closely...
I mean, most of them are in Mesopotamia.
There's Asher, which is obviously Assyria.
There's Aram, which is the people of Mesopotamia and northern Syria.
There's Elam, which is the Elamite mountains adjacent to Babylon.
And there was also Ludd, who is the son of Shem.
He's kind of an outlier, because Ludd refers to the Libyans.
And the Libyans were not in Mesopotamia.
They were an Asia Minor, which is modern Turkey.
You have Greece, you have the Aegean Ocean or Sea,
and then you have Turkey or Asia Minor.
And Lydia or Ludd was the major kingdom of Asia Minor,
which is not in Mesopotamia.
It's its own thing.
So if you look at the history of Lydia,
there were only a couple periods where Lydia was linked to Mesopotamia.
And one of them was like three years from 315 to 312 B.C.
under Antigonus, who was one of these warring generals.
That didn't last long.
But the main thing is after 278 B.C.,
Lydia was very firmly in the Seliusan Empire.
So Lydia, plus all these Mesopotamian kingdoms,
that's the Seliusus after 278 B.C.
And that's a very strong dating clue.
Now, the Sands of Ham, there's Pat, which is Northern Africa.
There's Kush, which is the Ethiopians.
There's Ham, which is in an emperor Egypt.
And another one of them was referred to Arabia.
And these were all within the Ptolemaic Empire.
And actually, under Ptolemy II Philadelphus,
his propaganda really exaggerated his rule over Ethiopia and Arabia.
You know, his official poet, Theocrates,
he said that Ptolemy ruled with a spear over all of these lands.
This is not exactly historically true,
but that's what they claimed in 273 B.C., specifically.
So there's a very good indication of date with the descendants of Ham.
And the third one, which is Jaffas,
they, those Sands and listed there, they go from the Caucasus
in the northern part of Asia Minor and kind of around the coast
and Silesia and Javen are the Isles of the Greeks.
And those people in Jaffas, they were all known from that period,
but they were independent.
They weren't in the Ptolemy's and they weren't in the Seleucid Empire.
So they were like a third group of nations at that time.
And the only period of time where the world was divided up in those three groups.
So it's a very specific, good indicator of date.
So like Psalms, for example, just to give you one example to get your thoughts on.
When Psalms has the author saying that the coastlands will sing praises to your name
or, you know, whatever it might be, but the coastlands, it brings up the coastlands.
That's not Israel. That's obviously not Israel.
No, they're talking about who are they saying, Hey, sing praises to the God of Israel.
Well, the coastlands, there were two people at that time who were maritime people.
The Greeks, they traded with their boats all over the Mediterranean.
They had colonies, Rome, Spain, the Black Sea.
They had emporiums all down the coast of Israel, clear to the knife.
The Phoenicians were their competition.
And they were based on the coast kind of around Tyre and Sidon.
And they were coasts that were adjoining Israelite territory.
So when you talk about the coast, you're talking about Greeks and Phoenicians.
And, yeah, and maybe a few Philistines, too,
because they wound up a little further south on the coast.
And when they're singing the praises of Israel,
these are kind of Mediterranean, seafaring cosmopolitan peoples
who represent the whole Mediterranean world, really.
And they're singing the praises of Israel because Israel is the highest of the nations.
They're a light to the world.
They're a law, an example that illuminates all the nations with their wisdom
and sophistication and goodness.
So Israel and the Jews were supposed to be elevated
to become the most wonderful of the nations
with a great reputation throughout the world.
So let me ask you this.
These nations that are playing a role in the in the table of nations,
I guess it would be my final point, because I really, really look,
I want to go into detail, right?
But I also don't want to go through every single thing that you talk about in this book.
I think it's important that they go and read.
They need to read this and see how interesting it is
when you break down each of these and say, I think there's something going on later here.
Yeah, you can drill down as deep as you want to.
There's so many footnotes and you can get as deep as you want.
It's better to have an overview.
I agree. Right.
And I like the airplane views.
It gives them enough appetizer to feed them for a full course meal
that they're interested in going and reading.
But I want to bring up something I keep harping back to is later authors
using this early
this early, early mythological history
of these genealogical descendants.
And out of all of these, let me pull up my Genesis 10 here.
It's obvious he goes through mentioning everything from Ninia,
Hamathites, eventually the families of Canaanites
and extended Canaan and Psydon and Gera and Sodom and Gomorrah.
And I mean, like you go on and on, the list is there in Genesis 10.
Finally, it says these are the sons of Shem, according to their families,
according to the languages, by their lands and according to their nations,
which is indication God's attached themselves not only to the land,
but they also attached themselves to the people, the blood.
So there's oftentimes that it's cosmopolitan ideas that start to,
you know, Hellenism says, OK, all of these divided nations,
you start to really get kind of a syncretism, if you will,
like overlap of ideas and we can all kind of get along.
And especially when people start to enter the Jewish or, if you will, Israel's God,
these are the families of the son of Noah, verse 32, the final verse,
according to their genealogies, by their nations,
from these, the nations spread over the earth after the flood.
These are not just Israelites.
I want anyone to know that because when you read in Deuteronomy 32,
there seems to be this extremely controversial point that you brought up earlier.
It doesn't say sons of God.
It says the seventy nations according to the sons of Israel.
Yeah. So there are groups of people who see that and say,
it's all about the it's all about Israelites only.
And they don't even see that the nations are not Israelites.
There's other nations, other gods, and there are a lot of these other gods
or the gods accept them as their inheritance, but Israel becomes Yahweh's.
And then what we have in the next chapter
says they they had a common vocabulary.
Then it gets into the myth of the Babylonian.
Now we're speaking in different tongues and they're trying to reach the heavens.
So Babel gets dropped, right?
And I believe I'm right here.
I believe so. So then it goes on all the way down to Abraham.
Give me a minute.
I want to in protect something, please, into the into the babel story.
Yeah, please, it's very interesting.
And the Lord said, Behold, the people is one and they have all one language.
And this they begin to do.
And now nothing will be restrained from them, but they have a medicine to do.
So let's go.
Let us go down and confound their language.
This is God's in the plural again.
It's not just one God coming down and scattering the people.
There are multiple sons of God before the flood.
And then the Tower of Babel story, you have multiple gods after the flood
and they scattered the nations.
And the gods, evidently, they scatter with them
because they have to go along with their each with their little nation.
But do continue on to Abraham.
No, great point.
In fact, I love that you connected that because it's obvious to me
that clearly shows common source.
This seems to be a common source when we talk about J.E.D.
and P. This is obviously from a similar author with a similar idea of God,
in my opinion, I could be wrong, but it sounds very similar.
And what they do, the redactor, whoever this is, is connecting this whole
Babel and the nations, the table of nations to Abraham.
I mean, if you keep going, he says, so the Lord scattered them
and talks about how many years a certain person lived and he got so and so
and he got so and so and they lived all the way down to Abram.
Heron died in the land of his birth in Ur of Chaldees
while his father, Tara, was still alive.
And Abram and Nahor took wives for themselves.
The name of Abram's wife was Sarah and the name of Nahor's wife was Milka.
She was the daughter of Heron, the father of both Milka and Iskka.
But Sarah was barren.
She had no children.
So it's already giving you this hint in Genesis 11 about him being a father.
He's going to end up becoming a father trying to say, get ready.
Don't worry, God's going to bless this chosen man
from all these people, from among all the nations.
This is going to be the chosen nation through one man.
I'll make you a father of many nations, the patriarchal blessing.
But I say that to say, as soon as you get to Genesis 12, right,
still hoping on Abram and he goes on to say,
I will make you into a great nation, singular, one, not nations, one nation.
And I will bless you and I will make your name great
so that you will exemplify divine blessing.
I will bless those who bless you, but the one who treats you lightly,
I must curse and all the families of the earth will bless one another by your name.
Now, this is my question.
This goes into the foundations of how you're going to approach
a lot of the material throughout the Bible, I think.
If we get this wrong, it's easy to see possibilities of getting other things wrong.
It sounds like the families of the earth, hint, hint, table of nations.
OK, this is not just Israelites.
This is a bigger picture here.
It's it's and they are claiming none of us.
I don't believe this.
I don't actually believe this ontologically, or I don't have a
epistemological basis for believing in this.
I'm saying the text seems to indicate the authors are hoping
they're predicting that all these nations
Shem, Ham, and Japheth's descendants, all these different people's all over.
Well, one day they will they will bless the Lord or they will say
the families of the earth will be will bless one another by your name.
And he also gives that idea of bless those who bless you, curse those who curse you.
What does Abraham do or Abram do?
Goes down to Egypt.
The Pharaoh sees his hot, his hot sister.
Doink, doink. Oh, crap.
That was your sister. Oh, why did you do this to me?
Cursed those who curse you, right?
You're already starting to see when people who aren't you are cursing you.
You get cursed and then blessings.
My point is it seems common sense to you, but there's certain people that I engage
that I think don't use that kind of mentality.
You know, yeah, that's true.
And throughout Genesis,
there are various misunderstandings that take place.
This episode with Abraham and his wife,
Sarah,
is kind of repeated with the Philistine bimolette, too.
It's kind of a doublet.
But
in in some of the extra biblical literature,
you know, God curses
the Pharaoh or whoever is such a way that they can't actually have inner force.
So her virtue is protected.
But other than these little novelistic misunderstandings,
which are all very entertaining,
the relationships and fantasies between the nations are pretty
pretty easy going.
Abraham
rescues not only a lot from this,
there's this one invasion from Mesopotamia
where some of these kings, they transwestern national boundaries.
And yes, that is a bad thing because
Genesis says all the nations should stay put in their allotted territory.
The four kings from Mesopotamia, they come down, they conquer Sodom and Gomorrah.
They take a bunch of captives.
Abraham rescues them.
He doesn't just rescue his nephew, Lot.
He rescues captives
and the goods from Sodom and the and the cities of the plain
because they're on friendly terms.
He's on friendly terms with the king of Sodom.
They all go to Salem,
which might be Jerusalem, it might be a city in Samaria.
They all go to Melchizedek.
And all of them, Canaanites and Abraham alike,
they all worship El Elyon,
the highest God, the cosmic God.
There's one God, this cosmic God who created the heavens and earth,
who's over all the gods of all the nations.
And I guess you could say it was ecumenical, you know, all of the nations.
They all pay tribute to El Elyon together, elbow to elbow.
And it wasn't this rivalry that you later see in Exodus through Joshua.
And in fact, Genesis ends on a very high note with,
you know, Abraham and Israel and their sons and Joseph.
They're all favored by the Egyptians.
This prophecy about the nations of the earth being
blessed through Abraham.
Really, this is taking place with Egypt at the end of the book of Genesis,
where Joseph is Pharaoh's right hand man, they're living peacefully together.
Their friends is not a bitter criticism of the gods of Egypt.
Everyone gets along just fine.
And then boom, Exodus one, Pharaoh, a new Pharaoh comes.
He's evil. He's genocidal.
He does this. He does that.
A little bit of a change in tone.
So you have these positive international tones or themes that are presented in Genesis,
which don't necessarily carry through to the rest of the Pentateuch.
But I think some of it's picked up in the prophets and in other parts of the Bible,
where a positive future with the nations is envisioned.
So the Bible is not consistent.
People who think the Bible should interpret the Bible, no.
Each book should be interpreted on its own to self-contained unit.
You have to look on it on its own terms.
You can't interpret the book of Joel using the book of Revelation or whatever,
you know, people always do.
But this positive view of the potential, positive international relations
and the Jews or Israel being a light to the nations,
that's the theme that gets picked up in some of the later books.
And it's not consistent, but, you know, the Bible isn't consistent.
But you do see that theme picked up in certain areas
that you seem to be particularly kind of expert in, right?
You studied that, I know.
I want, you know, I'm very interested in the topic.
Let's put it that way.
I'm not an expert, but I would say that I've really been digging into this
and I'm interested in knowing more because when you have opponents
who take a different position that you think is radically, completely anti-scholarly,
it kind of motivates you, you know,
motivates you to like want to really know what is going on.
Interesting thing is the opponents aren't Christian.
The opponents are people who also like me don't believe in the book, right?
They're not someone who's like, I have to believe in this and I need it to be true.
But I feel like they still have an axe to grind on it,
requiring everything to be filtered through an Israelite filter.
Non-Israelites could not participate or couldn't actually be part of the Covenant
or couldn't join or were not envisioned or Paul's Gentiles and on it goes.
And so it's helped me.
I know people watching may not, what are you talking about that for?
Or whatever. There's some people like that.
This has helped me want to know more about what is really happening.
It makes me want to read actual books and actually know what is actually being said
because then I can at least filter and say, OK, the Israelite who wrote this,
this was their intention.
They have an origin story.
They have a Deluvian story.
The Deluvian story produces why all the nations are like they are.
It's just a myth for why we're not Egyptians and Egyptians aren't,
you know, Assyrians and Assyrians aren't Babylonians.
And, you know, the on and on it goes.
It's this myth explaining why we all speak different languages.
We come from different places.
It's not actual history.
If you really want to know what really is the truth about these things,
there are other studies that actually get closer to the reality of what happened.
But in antiquity, I feel like we do a disservice towards religious text.
We are anachronistically forcing.
It should tell the truth.
Therefore, it's a lie if it doesn't say what actually happened.
But in antiquity, I think what happens in these religious texts,
it's the Bozo fundamentalist.
I say Bozo because I was a fundamentalist who are extreme about this,
who are demanding that this is how the text must be understood
and how they must be read that are forcing this interpretation on these books,
which makes people cringe at the Bible.
They cringe at these books and they have a hate toward them
because the people who are practicing such beliefs
and the way they force their ways about the books on people.
So I say that to say, I want to understand the Bible for what it actually is.
I want to value it for its imperfections.
I want to say in antiquity, I think these guys were practicing,
I guess you could say for their own ways of thinking, ancient science.
And in two, three thousand years from now, when we think we're scientific
and our great, great, great, great, great, great grandkids are looking back going,
how Neanderthal like you are such knuckleheads.
I want them to try and be as you have humiliation, humbleness
and approaching and saying, Derek Lambert and Russell Gamerican
use the tools they understood the world from at that time.
But we've had many breakthroughs since then.
And I'm not going to say they're knuckleheads.
They were brilliant men in the day they lived in.
And so were these men who authored these books.
Even if you don't agree with them, I don't agree with them.
I would never practice the things that they say or think some of that stuff's OK
in the context I live in.
So I say all that to say, Russell, I commend you for your book.
Borosis and Genesis, Minnitho and Exodus is an excellent book
for anyone who's excited in this topic and wants to like look at
very controversial groundbreaking material saying,
is this Greek at the very least?
Let me say this.
And this is something you would disagree with, but that's OK.
I want to say this stuff for our audience at the very least.
Let's say you guys want to date it back before two seventy three's two seventy two,
right, you want to go back at the very least, you should say some redactors
had to have inserted a Greco Roman or Greek, if you will,
because at that time, Rome is not on the scene in terms of this.
But a Greek read there's something going on by the time it's
in its final form by two seventy three.
At the very least, you should say maybe it's not as final form
because you still have the Dead Sea Scrolls floating around on their own as well.
You know, they're trying to come up with a let's let's make sure this is what all
people are reading kind of stuff.
And the sectarians, there's no help in those knuckleheads.
They're out there waiting for the world to end.
And I'm just teasing.
But they're not cosmopolitan.
It doesn't seem so.
Yeah, I agree.
In the 20th century, well, from, say, 200 B.C.
through the 20th century, everyone assumed that these biblical
writings of the Hebrew Bible were really ancient.
And it's really only been since, like the 1990s, that people have even
conceived of the notion that some of it could have very late Greek influences.
It's a new idea.
If you're conservatively rooted in the teachings of your church or your
university or wherever you grow up in with all these ideas, you're going to
think, oh, all this biblical material is really old.
But it's a new thesis that some of it could be Greek.
How much of it?
Well, we're still working that out and we're still testing the hypothesis.
But there seems to be a lot that's there.
I'm not the only person working on weak influences in the Hebrew Bible.
Lots of people are doing different areas and and it's working out.
And it's it's like a scientific hypothesis.
You come up with the hypothesis, you say, well, this is a new possibility.
We haven't considered before.
It might have more explanatory capability than the old ideas of the past.
Let's check it out.
And then you test it and test it and test it against the facts.
And if it holds up, then maybe you've really got something.
And I think in the 20, 30 years since Neil Peter Lemke first suggested
that the Old Testament could be a hell of a big book.
That radical new thesis has been tested and has really stood up.
And the older ideas, they are now under severe challenge.
And I don't think they're going to survive intact.
Although the older generation will always hold on to their older ideas
until they retire.
So it's always going to be controversial until that generation dies out.
But the idea of Greek influences is it's out there.
It's being tested.
People are working on it and it seems to be holding up pretty well.
Certainly something worth considering.
And everyone should consider evidence and not just their beliefs.
You know, beliefs come and go, but the evidence is what's really important.
Ladies and gentlemen, Russell Kamir can get his book if you can afford it.
No, it's an arm and a leg, which is why we're producing the series about the book.
But maybe one day you can.
And I hope you will.
Thank you so much, Russell.
Let's do this again.
Is there anything you'd like to say before we go?
Just as a great show, I really enjoyed it.
And that's terrific that you've spent so much time on this one
kind of groundbreaking book of mine.
It's a good service to your viewers.
I've had people
compliment the series from Europe and Africa and everywhere.
They really appreciate the work that you're trying to do to discuss these
ideas and bring them to a wider audience.
Well, me and the Divine Council have had our conversation.
And let's just put it this way.
We also made sure the webcam on your end was working good this time.
So that way, everybody was pleased with the appearance of Russell
American, and it wasn't like choppy because when I edited the last video,
I must admit, it took me forever.
Almost every single time I turn around, I'm chopping, chopping, chopping.
It came out great, but I cut so much.
Probably like five to seven minutes of audio I had to cut
just to get it to try and work itself out.
So, ladies and gentlemen, thank you so much.
If you like what we're doing here, this video is on Patreon early.
Of course, you're probably seeing this right now going.
I'm already watching on YouTube.
Why do I need to join the Patreon?
By the time you're watching this, I'm already launching James D.
Tabor, an entire video series on Paul and Jesus and the Jesus dynasty.
We're already delving into the Talpia tomb.
All of that's on Patreon.
So you're over here going, hold on, what am I missing out on?
Hundreds of videos that are on the Patreon that helps me do what I'm doing here.
One day, I want to fly out there to Oregon and meet Russell in person and interview him.
Hopefully, your voice will hold up because that's the only concern I have
and actually get some content with you, Russell, one day in person.
So this is a way of supporting, making this channel possible
to keep educating the general public.
Please consider checking us out in the description.
Love you, Russell. Let's do this again.
Back at you.
And never forget the gods even say this chant.
We are Mithvision.
