Help MythVision keep bringing new material by becoming a Patreon member, as well as PayPal.
Like, share, subscribe, and comment.
We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision Podcast, your host, Derek Lambert.
I am honored today to be able to interview someone who's not only a scholar, but works
at Duke University, right down the street from me, and I hope to get to meet him here
soon in person.
You guys get to see him on the show, Dr. Mark Goodacre, who holds a doctorate in Masters
and Philosophy from Oxford University.
And if I go to list everything, guys, I'll be reading the whole Bible to you.
So I'm going to spare those details, and I'm going to let him introduce himself.
Welcome to the show, brother.
Thanks, Derek.
It's great to be on this show.
Yeah, I work at Duke University, as Derek said.
I have a fancy title, which is really nice.
They do this sometimes.
I'm known as the Francis Hill Fox Professor of Religious Studies.
I'm currently the chair of the Department of Religious Studies as well, which basically
means that I spend far too long on admin and not enough time on the things I really enjoy,
which is doing research about Christian origins and being in the classroom and talking about
it.
Wow.
Well, it sounds like you've done your research, especially when I sent you some of these questions
to get your thoughts on them, and you're like, yeah, I'll take them.
And I'm like, those are some pretty heavy hitting questions, but I'm sure you've dealt
with them.
So we're going to get into some of that stuff.
Ladies and gentlemen, he's written quite a few books.
Would you tell us a few of those books, and you're going to see them on the screen?
Go down in the description.
Make sure you guys get a copy of each one of these books.
The one we're going to talk about mostly today is dealing with Mark.
So not only Mark, but the Gospel Q. And why is this important?
So Mark, if you don't mind, introduce please.
Sure.
I suppose the thing I'm most well known for, insofar as I'm known for anything, is I wrote
a book in 2002, which I called The Case Against Q. And that basically argues that one of the
pillars of a lot of New Testament criticism, the hypothetical document Q, actually never
existed.
It's a bit of a bold thing to do, really, in retrospect, because I was a young scholar
at the time, and had a lot to lose.
I have a bit less to lose now that I have tenure at a prestigious American university.
So I wrote The Case Against Q in 2002.
I actually think the book I wrote more recently, Thomas and the Gospels, The Case for Thomas's
Familiarity with the Synoptic Gospels, I think that's actually a better book.
I think it's better written, it's better structured, it's better argued.
But I don't think it's ever going to have quite the same impact as the Q book.
So I'm happy that people mainly tend to want to ask me questions about Q, even though the
Thomas book is the more recent one.
That's important, though, asking that question.
And I want our audience to really try.
If you're not familiar with Q, if you're somebody who's watching and you're going,
well, I'm just now starting to get into this study, it is extremely important.
I mean, it's a foundation stone, so to speak, to a lot of scholars and how they approach
a lot of things in their academic research.
So if you don't mind answering a basic, simple question before we get to more detailed, complex
ones.
Why is this question important?
Why if Q didn't exist or did exist, what would that mean?
Well, I think the reason that I think people put so much stock in it is twofold.
The first is that if it existed, it has to have been quite an early Christian text.
And that's important because then that means that you've got access to something close in
time or closer in time to the historical Jesus.
So for a lot of people, Q gives you that root into historical Jesus.
So people really love it for that.
But there's a second reason why I think people really like it.
And that's that as it usually is reconstructed, Q has no passion narrative.
It's mainly sayings, it's largely sayings that then suggests that early Christianity
might have been a bit more diverse than the impression you sometimes get from the New
Testament, because when you read Paul's epistles, all about the passion, all about crucifixion
and resurrection.
When you read the canonical Gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, all about passion and resurrection,
epistles of the Hebrews, Revelation, wherever you look, cross everywhere.
But Q doesn't have a crucifixion story, a resurrection narrative.
And so Q has this great appeal to people who can say, oh, my goodness, look at how diverse
and different early Christianity was, Christianity without the cross.
I mean, you can see, I mean, even if you know nothing about it, the idea of Christianity
without the cross is hugely interesting for anyone that wants to do kind of revisionist
history.
That's a fact.
Even a gentleman that I constantly do recordings with Dr. Robert M. Price.
He is a supporter of Q. And I know there's Q, Q plus, there's all these different letters
and stuff.
But he makes this like reference real quick, and he says the same thing about the sayings
in Q, similar to the Gospel Thomas, which is why you guys really need to get Mark's
book on Thomas so that you can say, well, did he know the synoptics?
Does this answer some questions?
I think it might.
I definitely got to get that one.
So let's dig into some of these questions.
I'm going to start from the top.
This is scripted questions, ladies and gentlemen.
If I tried to memorize this, goodness gracious, you'd hate me for it.
What is Q?
I'll just say in relation to scripted questions that the answers aren't scripted, though.
I'm happy to say.
Occasionally, when one does media work, especially these days, they will give you not only the
questions, but they'll give you the answers that they want you to give.
And sometimes I had to say to people, I'm sorry, I'm not saying that anyway.
So thank you for that.
What is Q?
So Q is a hypothetical early Christian source.
It is basically reconstructed from taking Matthew's Gospel and Luke's Gospel, looking
at all the places where they have common material that's not found in Mark's Gospel.
So the general theory is, and it's the theory I agree with, Matthew and Luke both had access
to Mark.
It's the theory of Mark and priority, rock-solid theory.
I think it's one of the strongest theories anywhere in the field.
But if they knew Mark's Gospel, it doesn't explain everything that is in common between
Matthew and Luke.
So that's where Q comes in, because if Matthew and Luke knew Mark, where did they get the
rest of their stuff from?
All the stuff like the Beatitudes, the Parable of the Lost Sheep, the Lord's Prayer, tons
of tons of this stuff.
Where did they get that from?
And the Q theory is, they both had this early Christian source.
Because it's been lost, then we have to make up a name for it.
And although the name Q sounds sexy and interesting, actually it's kind of boring if you look
at the origins of it, because the German word, Kvele, which means source, it's the German
word for source, it's just the first letter of that.
So if Q had been invented as an S, an S is much less interesting than Q as a letter.
That's a whistle-stop tour of what Q is according to most people.
The distribution of the synoptic Gospel material.
I have an image.
You saw the image, I'm sure.
Yeah, I did.
Yeah, yeah.
It's a good one.
It's good.
It shows what's unique to Mark that isn't in Matthew or Luke.
But there's a lot of double-tradition, triple-tradition.
Can you explain this chart?
Do you agree with what you're seeing here to pretty, I mean, obviously you don't have
to be like, it's 100% accurate.
What do you think of this chart?
Yeah, it's pretty good.
It's like any representation of the data.
It has to oversimplify, and nerds like me would dispute little bits of it, but yes,
it's basically fine.
It's basically okay.
What it's actually doing, what I like about this chart is it's not giving you an actual
theory of the origin of the material, it's describing the data.
And actually, I think that's really important.
Before one actually leads into solutions to the problem, like Q, Mark, and priority and
so on, you really need to understand what the data is.
And what this is basically showing you is that a huge amount of Luke's Gospel and Matthew's
Gospel has material in common with Mark's Gospel.
So it's a way you're looking here and you're seeing that purple stuff, that triple-tradition.
That is a huge amount of Matthew's Gospel and Luke's Gospel.
Now the standard solution to why there's that purple material there, actually we have to
be careful in case anybody is colorblind.
I sometimes have this with coloring these synopsis and diagrams that it doesn't work
for people that have certain kinds of colorblindness.
But we're talking about the box that says triple-tradition and where that points to Luke
and Matthew and Mark.
Now, that is the material that most scholars think Matthew and Luke copied out of Mark.
Triple, triple because it's an all three.
The where Q comes in is the bit right at the bottom of the page where you see double-tradition.
That double-tradition is material that's in Matthew and Luke that's not in Mark.
So by definition they can't have got it from Mark.
So the question is where the heck did they get it from?
Q theorists say they got it from Q. So double-tradition is the type of data and Q is a solution to
the problem posed by the double-tradition.
And then there's these other things as well.
Luke's got a lot of unique material which we sometimes just call L. Matthew's got some
unique material which we sometimes call M and Mark has very little unique material.
Let me ask you this before we get off this chart because this isn't really in the vein.
But where you said double-tradition, I suspect this is where a lot of debate comes in.
Because would it be and you could just yes or no it and we'll move on because I'm sure
we're going to touch into this.
But the double-tradition here, this is something they have in common where you might argue,
I suspect that they knew of each other.
This is why this material shows up in both.
Or at least one knew of the other, so to speak.
Yeah, that's basic.
So where I suppose come into this is that I have argued in the book we talked about
case against Q that Q does not exist.
They did not get this material from an imaginary lost source.
It's actually the oldest, easiest explanation in the world which is that Luke copied it
from Matthew.
He didn't get it from some lost document.
He copied it directly out of Matthew.
He had a copy of Matthew's Gospel.
He knew it well.
He was strongly influenced by it.
That's why I think Q didn't exist.
I mean, the analogy I give when I'm teaching this sometimes is if I have two student papers
that look very, very similar, I don't immediately think did they both copy from another student
whose paper I haven't seen or from something on the internet.
They might have done.
But you begin with the thought, well, has this student copied from this student?
Did this student have this student's paper in front of them?
And in fact, there was one occasion where I actually had this.
It was in my previous job at the University of Birmingham, England.
And a group of us were looking at these two papers that were really similar.
And we actually had a kind of a live synoptic problem type discussion.
And I found myself in a weird position of saying, well, do you think that they could
have copied it from some unknown third source, something that they'd found on the internet
or something?
And we couldn't quite work out what was going on.
But the nice thing was we actually could get the students in and interview them.
So what we did is we got them in two separate rooms.
We didn't tell them in advance what we were interviewing them about.
Then we told them each separately.
One person said, oh, my goodness, did she copy out of my essay?
I lent her my essay.
I didn't think she'd copy it.
So we had one person saying that she was the source of the other.
And the other one said, yeah, I'm sorry, I did a copy of my friend's paper.
So that's a kind of a Luke Matthew type situation.
What I think happened is they didn't have some document that has just vanished from
the face of the earth.
Luke had Matthew.
It's the simpler solution.
Simple solutions are sometimes not the right ones.
Sometimes in life, in history, in the ancient world, complex answers are the right ones.
But this, I argue, is one of those occasions when the simple solution is actually more plausible.
And when we don't have, let's say we can't prove it, we can't interview them,
it does seem like an Occam's razor possible argument here to make the most sense of a
real situation.
And of course, you go into arguing this in your book.
So mark in priority versus mark in posteriority.
If this was not addressed in your book already, The Case Against Q,
you dedicate a chapter to affirming mark in priority and some confusion over this
assumption that impedes Q skepticism.
Can you describe this a bit?
You're going to show us regarding the strength of the hypothesis of mark in priority.
Yeah, I mean, what happens when you look at the synoptics first off,
there's a really important thing you've just got to get on the table,
got to get established first.
And I called this, in the case against you, setting in place the cornerstone.
And it's that Matthew and Luke, I think, beyond reasonable doubt,
were, they had a copy of Mark's Gospel.
They knew it extremely well.
They copied from it and they were influenced in the whole way.
They structured their Gospels.
Now, had we know that's the case and lots and people across history have argued
that maybe Mark was the second Gospel using Matthew or maybe was the third Gospel.
He had them both, had Matthew and Luke.
I argue that that's really unlikely for a range of reasons.
I'll just touch on one of them.
Quite often you find in Matthew and Luke that they're copying a passage from Mark
and they make changes at the beginning of the passage and they will make characteristic changes.
They'll say things that they often say elsewhere.
So to give you an example, Matthew begins the story of the death of John the Baptist
by changing what Mark says about Herod.
In Mark's Gospel, Herod is said to be a king.
And now that Herod was not a king.
He was a tetrarch.
He was a ruler of a fourth, like Galilee and Pariah.
So Matthew makes a good change.
He says, oh, it's Herod the tetrarch.
Can you read this?
You think, oh, good old Matthew.
You know, like it's a bit of accuracy and a bit of detail.
You then carry on through the story and by the time you got to the end of it,
Matthew's drifted back into calling him Herod the King, right?
So what you're seeing there is what I call the...
Well, I didn't coin the term, but I sort of popularized it.
But when I talk about the phenomenon of fatigue, editorial fatigue,
where a writer drifts into the wording of their source
against what they had actually done earlier in the piece.
Now, you can find so many examples of this type of thing in both Matthew and Luke.
Examples that make much better sense if Matthew and Luke know Mark
than if Mark knew Matthew and Luke.
But I think that's an indicator that they had Mark's gospel.
And it wasn't the case that Mark had Matthew and Luke
or that Mark had Matthew or something like that.
That's very much a whistle-stop tour.
There have been lots of arguments about Mark and priority over the years.
Some good, some not so good.
But that's one of the ones that I think is a stronger argument.
Maybe I can interview you in the future and get other examples from you.
Maybe that was awesome example.
I really like that because I can only imagine
like even the people that you caught with these copying these papers.
If you really probably compared that paragraph and you looked into it real close,
you might find that doesn't line up with something she said later.
So that's right.
In fact, I actually had a case of a very poorly done bit of plagiarism
where a student had copied out of a textbook.
And and I knew the textbook really well because it was written by one
of my graduate advisors in Oxford.
And so I knew instantly when I saw it, I recognized the style.
And one of the things this student did is she actually copied out
a sentence that said, as we saw earlier.
But she hadn't even she hadn't included the earlier bit.
I mean, I mean, like I say, that was a poor bit of plagiarism.
And, you know, I mean, but but yeah.
So it is that phenomenon of and you can see people do it in other places as well
where they lapse into the wording of their source because sometimes it's hard
to sustain changes all the way through a particular passage.
Excellent. All right.
Gap or the gaps between the Gospels.
You make a very interesting point on page 48, the greater the gap
in time between Matthew and Luke, the less likely it becomes
that Luke did not possess a copy of Matthew's Gospel.
Conversely, the shorter the gap, the more likely Luke did possess.
Can you explain the mechanics in the dating scheme, so to speak, in the sequence?
Yeah, it for for the Q30 to work, you have to say
that Matthew and Luke were writing round about the same time
because you have to maintain the ignorance of one another.
As soon as Luke knows Matthew or in theory, if Matthew and Luke,
you, you know, the Q30 kind of explodes under the under that under the force
of that of that point.
So one of the big questions is, is it likely that both Matthew
and Luke wrote round about the same time, writing a very similar thing?
And to be correct, Matthew and Luke are really, really similar books.
They're probably the two most similar books to one another
that you can that you can find in early Christian literature.
They both begin with a birth narrative, which Mark doesn't,
John doesn't, Thomas doesn't, Peter doesn't, as far as we know.
They both end with resurrection appearances, which Mark doesn't.
They both have the fundamental same
mark and structure, mark and skeleton that they slot sayings into.
They're just really, really similar projects.
So for them to have done this independently of one another
is already kind of striking.
But as soon as you say, well, could one of them been written
quite a bit later than the other?
And this is where the sort of this question of the kind of the gap
between them comes in.
One of the things that's really worth paying attention to is that Luke
looks much more like a second or third generation text than Matthew does.
And what I mean by that is if you look at the very opening of Luke's Gospel,
Luke one, one to four, the preface of Luke's Gospel.
There Luke self-consciously refers to many
the Greek word is polo, many who have written narratives before him.
They've attempted to
that there are other texts out there.
And for someone to begin in that kind of self-conscious way,
it makes him much more likely to be a little bit later,
whereas Matthew just launches in like he's writing the Bible.
I mean, Matthew, I think Matthew thinks he's writing scripture.
He just goes and he was right, of course, it did become scripture,
but he just goes straight in.
Luke's got that self-conscious element there.
What's more, Luke goes on to narrate in his second volume, Acts of the Apostles,
a whole load of history that happens after the Jesus movement,
all the way up to Paul arriving in Rome.
So Luke feels like a later second generation document plus.
And I actually didn't make this argument of the case against Q.
This is something I've come to believe afterwards.
And so maybe I'll add it in due course, but we get first hand.
Yeah, well, all right, Luke seems to know Josephus, the Jewish historian, Josephus.
And if indeed Luke knows Josephus, Josephus is antiquities,
antiquities was written in the nineties.
That means that Luke would be written after the nineties,
either in the nineties or the early second century.
Now, if that's the case, it becomes exceptionally hard
to get Matthew and Luke into that same window that they would need to be in.
And I tried and to go back to the book, I tried to point out there
that there are scholars like Bert and Mack,
who think that Luke was writing in the year 120, something like that,
and that Matthew had been written 20 or 30 years earlier.
And I just think it's just that's just, to me, it makes no sense at all
that here you've got Luke in 120, not using Matthew,
which we know is a popular text in the early second century.
I mean, Ignatius quotes from it, our manuscript record for Matthew
gets pretty good as you push through in the second century.
So it really strains credulity that Luke would be doing this in 120
without knowledge of Matthew, right?
So it's a question of general probabilities.
And of course, the argument has to be much more about general probabilities.
It has to come down to textual data.
But the general probabilities are worth bearing in mind, I think.
Thank you for answering that.
All right. What in correct my pronunciation here, if I'm mistaken,
what is the fairer hypothesis?
That's good. That's a good pronunciation of Farah.
So there was an Oxford scholar named Austin Farah, who died in 1969,
just over 50 years ago.
And he was he was a friend of C.S. Lewis and himself.
He was probably more of a theologian and a philosopher of religion
than he was a biblical scholar, at least like a lot of those kind
of old fashioned Oxford dons, they like to range across a whole lot
of different work.
And so he did write a lot of stuff about the New Testament.
He wrote a couple of books on Mark's Gospel.
He wrote about revelation.
And he also wrote an article about Q.
It was 1955 and he called it on dispensing with Q.
And he simply argued that if Luke could be seen plausibly as having
used Matthew, then we simply don't need Q.
Q just collapses under its own weight.
So he uses this word dispense.
It can go, it can fly.
So Austin Farah wrote this article and almost everybody that read it went,
what a later rubbish.
I mean, you can read stuff from the late fifties and the early sixties
and they're going, I think Q is here to stay.
I mean, I've written about Austin Farah, written a couple of articles about him.
And it was fascinating just looking at the reaction in his day.
People thought that, you know, what is this rubbish?
You know, I mean, they just, you know, they were really dismissive.
But Farah had a student called Michael Golder and Michael Golder thought,
this is right, this anti-Q thing is right.
And he picked it up and ran with it.
And long after Austin Farah had died, Golder just argued in a series
of articles and in a couple of books, they were never like case against Q type thing.
They were always books about something else.
Like he wrote a book on Matthew, but in his Matthew book, he argued against Q,
kind of indirectly by saying, you can make sense of Matthew without Q.
Then he wrote a huge 900 page book on Luke in 1989.
And he went on for like 900 pages saying, you can explain Luke without needing Q.
You can explain it by assuming that he's got Mark and Matthew.
And I, as a schoolboy, used to go along to lectures in Birmingham,
which was close to where I lived, used to go with my mum.
And I heard Michael Golder speak.
And one of the lectures that he gave was about Q not existing.
And I knew a little bit about Q. I'd learned about it at school.
And I thought, this just seems eminently plausible to me.
And so as a teenager, I became mildly obsessed with it and always wanted
one day to try and write a book arguing against the existence of Q,
which eventually I did.
I didn't do it for my doctoral work.
I had a wonderful doctoral advisor, John Muddyman, who said,
you don't want to write your pot boiler for your doctoral thesis,
as we call it in England.
You don't want to waste all that energy of doing it on a doctoral dissertation.
Because really, with a doctoral dissertation, what you're trying to do
is you're trying to show your examiners that you understand the field
and that you've got something important to contribute.
He said, save the cuba, which I did.
And that gave me more time to think about it.
Sometimes in scholarship, it's great if you've got a little bit of time
to let things percolate and think and to strategize.
Sometimes scholars don't strategize.
They just think, oh, everyone will find this persuasive.
I'm just going to dump it all there and then you can sort it out.
And the thing is you have to think about persuasive rhetoric
and how to structure an argument, how to present an argument.
And I mean, I sometimes think I should have waited a little bit longer
and it might have been a better book.
But anyway, I wanted to get it out
because eventually impatience got the better part of me.
So, yes, I then published this piece, The Case Against Q 2002.
And I've written several articles since I've written,
also written a summary book, which I've called
The Synoptic Problem Away Through the Maze.
And that's available for free on the Internet
for anybody that wants to look at it.
And you in that book, you just walk through the issues step by step.
That was I wrote that one about 20 years ago.
Thanks. I have a really long answer, wasn't it?
I'm sorry. No, no, no question.
It was Austin Farrell, wasn't it?
That doesn't matter.
That was excellent. That was well done.
I'm sure you know a lot more now than what you did in 2002.
So, you know, you've contributed a lot in this field.
Let's talk about minor agreements.
And this take me a second to read if this wasn't already addressed.
So the so-called minor agreements between Matthew and Luke
seem to be a real battleground for debates over the existence of Q.
And I think this is the area we were talking about,
that 24 percent or whatever on the chart.
Can you speculate on the explanations for why the author of Luke
felt the need to rework Matthew in the precise way that he seems to have done,
making sweeping revisions to Matthew that Q advocates,
Q advocates, sorry, have so much trouble justifying.
What can we deduce about Luke's
authorial and theological agenda based on his revisions of Matthew?
And can this agenda also be detected in the book of Acts?
I guess here's a couple of excerpts from the book that I think are pertinent.
Should I read those excerpts or I'm happy just to talk to them.
OK, please. Yes, sir.
So so one of the things is that you have this double tradition that we looked at,
which is the stuff that's in Matthew and Luke that's not in Mark.
And Q advocates think that that stuff comes from Mark.
Now, if I'm right, that Luke knew Matthew,
you should be able to see the influence of Matthew
not only in the double tradition, those are like twenty four percent stuff.
You should also be able to see it when Luke is rewriting Mark.
So the question is, do you get that?
My answer is yes, absolutely in spades.
And people have known about this for many, many years
because there's this entire group of rum
evidence, which people call the minor agreements, which is basically
places where Luke is rewriting Mark
and the details keep creeping in.
Now, if Luke has got just Mark and Q, he's not supposed to know
the way that Matthew changed Mark.
He's not supposed to know that stuff by definition.
But when you actually look at the data,
he keeps agreeing with Matthew, even when he supposedly editing Mark.
Now, what Q theorists do about that is they they they sort of
marginalize the data by calling them minor agreements.
And then so you've already got in the description of the data, this idea
he only agrees in minor ways and it's mainly coincidence.
And then they'll say things like, well, he just changes the word for and.
They both change the word for and that Mark uses.
And that would be a coincidence.
Well, of course, that could be a coincidence, right?
Or Mark often speaks in the present tense.
He'll say, Jesus says this, Jesus does this.
And Matthew and Luke will say, Jesus did this.
Jesus said this.
Maybe that's kind of coming, of course.
But that's not where the really interesting stuff comes.
Where the really interesting stuff comes is the fact that sometimes
Matthew and Luke add a whole string of verbatim stuff that's the same.
I'll give you an example.
In Mark 1465, Jesus is being tormented
by a group of soldiers and they say to him, prophesy.
They hit him and they say, prophesy, and that's it.
In Matthew and Luke at that point, they say, prophesy, who is it who hits you?
Now, it's five words in Greek.
Who is it who hit you?
Who's the one who hit you or name the one who hit you?
Five words verbatim in Greek, including one word, the word for hit,
which comes only there in Matthew and only there in Luke.
So what you have to say in cases like that is, how come Luke knew to write
exactly the same five words in exactly the same spot when he's editing Mark?
And you can't say, well, maybe that was in queue after all,
because then suddenly queues got a passion narrative.
And it's like, oh, no, I thought you hadn't got a passion narrative.
You know, so they really stark when it gets to this.
And if I may, it gets worse.
It gets much worse than that because it turns out that these so-called minor
agreements that often aren't so minor, it turns out that it's not just those
that were where Matthew and Luke agree against Mark.
Sometimes they agree in entire passages where they're editing Mark, most clearly.
For example, I'll just give you one example.
John the Baptist is preaching in Mark chapter one, Matthew three, Luke three,
he's preaching and he prophesied and he says, there's one coming after me
who will baptize you in the Holy Spirit.
Full stop. That's Mark.
Matthew and Luke, right?
He will baptize you in the Holy Spirit and fire and to his winnowing
fork is in his hand and he will gather the gather the grain into the barn.
And he's thinking, well, clearly that's not coincidence that they've added
exactly the same thing, exactly the same point.
So what Q theorists say there is, ah, that's because Mark and Q overlapped.
The Mark Q overlaps.
And people may say, hold on a minute.
I thought the point was that Matthew and Luke never edit Mark in the same way,
the same time.
They go, yeah, well, they don't usually, but they do in the Mark Q overlap
passages. And then you find out there's loads of these Mark Q overlap passages.
In fact, it goes on from Matthew three all the way halfway through Matthew
four are basically called Mark Q overlaps.
And then they shunt this off these Mark Q overlaps.
And then they go back and say, ah, and Matthew only agree with each other
in minor ways when they're editing Mark.
And I say, yeah, but what about Mark Q overlaps?
They go, that's that's where Mark overlapped with Q.
And I said, well, you just made that up, you know.
So anyway, that's that's broad.
That's that's sort of in a nutshell and stated in a slightly more facetious way
than I did when I write in the books, I don't say you just made that up.
That's that's what it sounds like to me.
You're calling it what it is.
And to me, that sounds like a very educated, sophisticated way of trying to say,
well, this evidence doesn't really line up with me.
So we need to we need to put it in a bracket over here.
That's interesting the way you describe that.
We've got 20 minutes.
Let's keep moving because this is just fascinating stuff.
So what about a Matthew in posterity?
There's an author named Evan Powell.
I don't know if you've heard of him.
I do. I know him. Yeah. Do you? OK.
We've not we've not met, but we have responded together.
Yeah, he's a buddy of mine.
The myth of the lost gospel, which proposes a solution to the synaptic problem,
which rejects Q and posits Matthew, right?
Posteriority that Matthew actually reworks Mark and Luke.
Have you given the hypothesis consideration and what are the issues you see with it?
I think you kind of mentioned one, but like, is there something that sticks out
and we could move on on that one?
Yes, I think it's I think so.
Evan Powell is also backed up by a couple of reasons,
called Alan Garrow and also Rob McEwen, who've both written on this.
And they both argue that Matthew knew Luke.
I think they get one very important thing right.
Which is that the agreement between Matthew and Luke
in these double tradition passages that we keep talking about,
the agreement between Matthew and Luke is really, really close.
Right. It's I mean, it goes on for whole sentences, you know, at a time.
And that kind of closeness suggests direct copying rather than rather than
a lost document. So we're actually much closer to one another.
On on this issue, then I then any of us are to the Q people.
So, you know, they've got something very important right there.
I personally think, of course, that they've got it upside down.
And there are a range of reasons why I think one can one can state that.
Maybe I'll just I'll just hit one of the reasons why I think
that that they that they have the order in the wrong direction.
If Luke knows Matthew, you would expect to see in Luke
somewhere a little vestige, some kind of hint of Matthew's literary structure.
If Matthew knew Luke, you would expect to see some little hint
somewhere of Luke's literary structure kind of showing up.
What in fact you see is Luke showing knowledge of Matthew's literary structure.
Most clearly, Luke seven, verse one.
You have this line when Jesus had finished these sayings in the hearing of the people.
Now, that is a characteristic way that Matthew ends each of his big five discourses.
Chapter seven, 10, 13, 18, 25, he has that same formula.
And Luke here, I think, is showing his knowledge of that big
Matthew and five book structure and that classic formula
by just this one time in seven, verse one.
Providing a version of it.
Given that you have that Luke knows not just the passages, the sayings and things,
he actually seems to have to show some evidence of Matthew's literary structure.
Then I think my direction, Luke knows Matthew works better than their direction,
Matthew knowing Luke, the range of other things as well.
But that's just one that I would pick out.
I appreciate the compliment to them, because that actually is that makes sense to
at least both of you are saying one's using the other for sure.
Right. Yeah. Yeah.
And I like that.
Proto John.
So my buddy Evan Powell also has the hypothesis that there was a Proto
Gospel underlying both the Gospel of John and the Gospel of Mark.
Have you given this hypothesis consideration?
I think one of the issues he brings up is the ending
or somewhere in the end of John looks like it's older.
So I don't know.
Yeah, I'm actually writing a book on John's Gospel at the moment,
which will argue that John knew all three synoptic Gospels.
And I don't believe in a Proto John, at least I don't believe in one
that we can manage to tease out from the pages of the New Testament.
One thing that I would say about any of these hypothetical texts,
hypothetical lost layers of tradition, hypothetical Proto Gospels is
I'm not skeptical that there were things in existence before
the synoptic Gospels, John came into being.
I am skeptical about scholars' abilities to do the work
that they think they can do to dig them out.
See, there's a deep problem with textual scholars.
People that work with texts are basically a lot of the time
frustrated archaeologists.
What they really want to be able to do is they want to be able
to kind of dig into their texts and dig something up
that no one's ever seen before.
The problem is doing literary criticism,
although it's got some good analogies in archaeology.
You, by definition, cannot dig down under the text
and find something that no one's seen before,
because we've all been looking at these texts for donkey's years.
So I think this idea of digging down and finding a Proto John, a Q,
an M, an L, all of these kind of hypothetical, earlier Gospels,
lost layers of tradition and everything,
it puts far too much faith in the scholar.
And I think I just don't have that kind of faith in scholars,
including myself, to do that.
So yes, there were all sorts of things were swirling around
that we just have to admit as good ancient historians, we've lost them.
We don't know. We can't recover that.
Well said. And with my program, for example,
I always tell people, you know, when you're looking for the historical Jesus,
usually people find the Jesus they want to find.
That could be scholarships, an attempt on,
well, I found this secret evidence here because it does work in their favor.
So, yeah, that's a surprise.
It's and to be fair,
one of the I'm teaching a course on historical Jesus at the moment.
And one of the things that was so great about the about the great Alvish fighter
is that he gets to the end of the quest of the historical Jesus
and he finds a Jesus that is not entirely congenial to him.
He finds a Jesus that troubles him and that bothers him historically.
And it's a good way of testing our results.
Sometimes we need to say, how congenial is this result to me?
And that's one thing that I grapple with, because I mean,
sometimes people laugh when I say this because they think I'm joking.
But I actually am very sad that, you know, we haven't got a cue.
Of course, I wish that there were more early Christian texts.
I mean, I'm an ancient historian. I want more data.
So I'm obviously not excited about, you know,
attempting to explode one of the sources that we thought we had.
But my feeling is you have to go with where the evidence is leading you.
And to me, the evidence is leading me right to Luke having a copy of Matthew's
Gospel, not to this wonderful, mysterious Lost Gospel,
which sounds so mysterious and exciting and enigmatic.
And everybody, of course, which is it does exist, you know.
Well said, Dr. Goodacre.
And I'm going to move into the dating of the synoptics.
Let's go ahead and move here for a second.
Is it really all about X event to prophecy?
The idea, just to put it simple, so we don't have to read the whole thing,
is the Gospel being written after 70, these Gospel be written after 70.
Is that what's, I mean, you're taking all of them.
Obviously, you're after 70 and they're written at,
do you believe they're written as fulfilled prophecy?
And to some extent, yes.
The, I think that all four canonical Gospels and all the non-canonical ones
that we have as well are all written after 70.
I don't think any of them predate 70.
And I think one of the reasons for that is that they all depict Jesus in some way,
prophesying the end of Jerusalem, the destruction of the temple,
the varying degrees of specificity, but it comes through as a thing.
And sometimes you'll find people will say to you, they'll say,
well, are you saying that Jesus couldn't prophesy things then?
Are you saying Jesus couldn't predict things and everything?
What I say about that is, you don't even need to ask that question.
Let's say for the sake of argument that Jesus did a really, really precise
prophecy of the Jewish war and the destruction of Jerusalem.
Let's say for the sake of argument, he did.
It is still significant that Gospel writers included that in their Gospel.
Because one of the things, one of the reasons that any text contained to prophecy
is that that prophecy is thought to have been fulfilled
in the time that the readers are reading it.
You can see it very clearly in Josephus.
Josephus has a character called Jesus.
He's Jesus Ben Ananos who goes around prophesying the destruction of the temple
in the 60s.
Now, Josephus includes that because in Josephus' time in the 90s,
when he's writing Antiquities, he knows that this has happened.
So it has a free song when you're reading it because you know it's happened.
You'll see this, I mean, one of my favourite crappy documentaries
that I think I've ever watched was a documentary called The Man Who Painted 9-11.
And it was about an artist that drew prophetic pictures.
He just had this amazing second sight and he drew the twin towers
and an airplane going to it.
But the thing is, the reason why that documentary was on TV is because of 9-11.
If 9-11 hadn't happened, we wouldn't be watching a documentary,
a man who did pictures of stuff that didn't happen.
Do you know what I mean?
So when you see texts like the synoptic gospels,
which are really clear that Jerusalem will fall,
sometimes with specific details,
you can be quite sure that they are written after the events that are being prophesied.
So yes, I do think all the gospels are post-70.
And I think you can see the degree of specificity in Luke's prophecies
about the fall of Jerusalem,
make it much more likely that Luke is the latest of those three of Matthew, Mark and Luke.
I think that's really well said.
I'll end that one if you don't mind with my opinion and you can thumbs up or say,
No, I think that either way it could work,
meaning you could say this was all written after the fact
and nobody actually did try to predict it.
Or the likelihood is that they took a scenario
where there was probably a fringe Jewish sect that was rejected by the temple society
or something to this effect that said down with that that evil temple and its leadership,
hint, hint, you brutal vipers and saying,
Hey, look, this thing's about to end or it better end.
God's judgment is coming.
And sure enough, wouldn't you know it?
It actually happens to some degree.
And it's like, there's just God's God did it.
And, you know, let's write a book.
And now, and obviously that doesn't require one to have to be written prior either.
So I love that that you said that because even if it did happen,
like you said, the guy painted 9 11 to be destroyed.
I mean, there was a first bombing bombing in the Twin Towers.
You know, right? Exactly. Yeah.
Like, is something going to happen?
I mean, the temple fell before.
So, right, right.
And then here we are writing after the fact.
So was that a thumbs up or a thumbs?
Yeah, I think, yeah.
Yeah, no, I think I think it's mainly it's mainly a thumbs up.
OK, I mean, I think and I would come back to when you're attempting
to reconstruct what the historical Jesus did or didn't say.
That's where I think on this one, one has to be skeptical,
simply because not not because of any prior decision
about what Jesus may or may not have said, but because when you have
something that goes with the grain like this, it's much,
much harder for the historian to say, oh, this is a bit odd.
Where you have things that go against the grain,
that's where the historian goes, oh, OK, this one, this bit's definitely
historical and it's not necessarily saying it wasn't historical.
It's just that it's very hard to find an argument that it definitely is.
And that sometimes when you're doing ancient history,
that's the way you have to work.
You have to say, this is the stuff I can know for certain.
And this is the stuff who knows.
You know, I mean, so yes, but yeah, fundamentally,
yeah, I think that's I think what he says is on.
Thank you. Thank you. I got him to agree with.
So we got a we got a big problem here, and I hope you saw it.
And this is pretty much our last one.
It's a it's a juicy one.
I want to read a little context for our audience.
And right now, this is a pertinent study for Myth, Fish and Podcasts
to investigate who are the Gentiles?
What are the Gentiles?
This is not a simple question for people who take this serious.
So I want to start with the example above from Luke 21, 24,
has an interesting difference from the synoptics with the respect
to the Jews being led captive into all the nations and be
embedding trampled underfoot or being trampled underfoot
by those very nations, Gentiles, until the times of the nations.
Gentiles is fulfilled.
And I think Romans 11 talks about this from Paul.
This has language that's strike only similar.
Romans 11, 25, which in turn alludes to Genesis 48, 19.
Perhaps this is some overt,
intertextual reference to Paul by the author of Luke in an article
called Paul and the Inventions of the Gentiles published in the Jewish
Quarterly Review in 2015.
The authors of Fear and Rosen's V on page 17 assume that Q,
they lean a lot on this document, right, was composed around the same time
as Paul's epistles, and they use this as evidence that prior to Paul's mission,
there was no urge to create a new community of God out of the Gentiles.
To support this, they cite Q, 1230 and Q, 634,
though they cast some doubt on the latter instance.
I'll stop right there.
Do you want to comment on this?
Yeah, sure.
One thing I would say is
it's clearly the case that the Jesus tradition, whatever form it took,
did not have many stories in it about Jesus interacting with Gentiles.
And this was clearly a problem to people in the latter part of the first century
where the new Jesus movement was very, very appealing to Gentiles.
So you're going out and you're giving this kind of this new story,
this good news, they called it, about Jesus to Gentiles.
And then the Gentiles say, oh, tell us about Jesus and Gentiles.
And they're going, oh, shoot, what have we got?
Yeah, I mean, you'd read Mark's Gospel.
He only meets one person who's very clearly a Gentile,
the Syrophoenician woman in Mark 7.
And there, Jesus seems to be quite rude to her.
He says, it's not right to take the children's bread and give it to the dog.
So that's all to say, there seems to be a strong view
amongst early Christians that Jesus didn't interact with Gentiles.
And if he did, it was really rare.
So you've got a problem, because all four canonical Gospels
want to depict Jesus as the Savior for the whole world, explicitly say,
how do you do it? How do you line those two things up?
Jesus, the Jewish Messiah, Jesus, the Savior of all the world.
And they do it actually in quite a clever way,
which is that they have Jesus prophesying that all the nations,
and it's the same word as you're saying in Greek, ethne, means nations or Gentiles,
all the nations will have the opportunity to turn to Jesus.
So you, and they love this phrase, pan-ta-ta, ethne, all the nations.
It comes in all three of the synoptic Gospels.
So what's going on, I think, is that you have Gospels
that are looking backwards to Jesus, the Jewish Messiah,
but forward to the Gentile mission.
And of course, Paul was the most famous advocate of that Gentile mission.
Now, Q doesn't help you remotely with that discussion.
I think that if anything, it obscures things.
It makes the discussion much more complicated.
And you can actually get a good idea of the kind of thing that's going on
by looking at Paul's epistles and by looking at the synoptic Gospels
when one doesn't need to pull Q into that picture at all.
Okay. I guess I'll read some more of this here for a second,
because I wish we had more time.
It would be wonderful, because I have some obvious good questions.
I think we could really probe out of this.
But let me read this as quick as I can.
All right. There's a couple of examples.
And Matthew 632 says,
For the Gentiles seek all things,
and your Heavenly Father knows that you need them.
And in Luke 1230, the word order gets flipped around
as for all the nations of the world seek these things,
and your Father knows that you need them.
The differences between these parallel verses are very subtle.
Of course, we read them in English,
not really notice what's going on.
And it's complicated by harmonizing textual variants.
And the only variant flagged in the apparatus of the in a 28 Greek New Testament
is the different grammatical versions of the verb seek,
a semantically meaningless variation.
Translators are frequently inspired to render the mathian use of nations as Gentiles,
while Luke's use of the exact same word is rendered as nations,
all the nations of the world.
This is a rather bold move for such a subtle difference.
Is it justified?
What are the implications here for the two source hypothesis
where Matthew is presumably making Gentiles out of all the nations in Q
versus the fairer hypothesis
where Luke was presumably making nations out of Matthews Gentiles?
So how does that make sense?
Well, the thing is, I mean, this is partly a question of translation theory.
And one of the things that I think a lot of English translations are very bad at
is they will translate the same word in different ways in different contexts.
Now, sometimes you have to do that.
When you do translation, you can't translate every word the same all the time,
because sometimes it won't even make sense.
So this word, ethne, nations or Gentiles,
it's not just a problem in translating the synoptic gospels.
It's even a problem when you're translating Paul as well.
In Galatians, he uses this word ethne,
and the interpreter has to say to themselves,
is he meaning all nations, meaning everybody including Jews?
Well, I don't think he is.
I think he's meaning all Gentiles, i.e. everybody that isn't Jewish.
And there's quite an important difference between those two.
And so often you just have to go with the context to work out what's going on.
And the thing is, with Matthew and Luke,
Luke has a much larger vocabulary than Matthew,
and sometimes he just likes to kind of vary his synonyms and so on.
So in the passage in question here, he's actually pretty close to Matthew.
But I don't think that variation is particularly significant
in the way that he's structuring things.
But to be fair, it's not something I've written an extended study on,
so I would be happy to go back and have another look at it.
I would love that.
And if I could interview you, man, we'll go when this COVID thing comes.
We will go to an all-you-can-eat buffet.
We got to do this.
Let me ask you one more because our time is running on.
I got like five minutes max with you, and this is not written.
So this is just from me.
And this is more of a theological situation,
which tells you the mindset of the author Matthew seems to be far more on the Jewish side
than the Gentile side.
I mean, we see references where he's saying things like,
he came only for the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
Or Matthew 121 in English, I don't know the Greek,
so I wish I was a scholar on this level,
but he says, for he shall save his people from their sins.
And I suspect this his people, this would connect to the nation of Israel.
Kind of like John talks about how Caiaphas prophesies and knows
better than one man dies for the nation.
All nations are the nation.
And kind of a contradiction in a sense of like there's a confusion going on.
Matthew seems to be exclusively predominantly,
if you will, not pro-Gentile, more about Jews or Israelites.
And Luke borrows some of this,
but I don't see the phrase he came only for the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
What do you think theologically is happening in this thing?
A proto-Jewish movement that's being hijacked by Luke and saying,
eh, nice try, I got to correct some of this.
What do you think?
Well, I had to check the text.
You're right.
So you should call his name Jesus for he will save his people from their sins.
So Matthew definitely depicts Jesus as a Messiah to Jews.
There's no question about it.
He even has in chapter 10.
He talks about the disciples going on mission to only the towns and cities in Israel.
So that's kind of interesting.
He says, actually says go nowhere among the Samaritans, you know.
And Luke clearly wants to be a little bit careful about having that very clearly as a thing in his,
in his gospel.
Though what Luke does is something rather clever.
He makes the gospel about Jesus, the Jewish Messiah, who looks forward to a time when Gentiles will enter into the movement.
And then in Acts of the Apostles, he narrates the Gentiles coming in.
So what Luke does is he can, he can, he can affirm what's already there in seed and mark and more explicit in Matthew,
which is Jesus predominantly went to Jews.
And then he can actually narrate in his second volume how the gospel went to all the world.
And by doing that, he uses his own literary structure on the one hand to affirm the prior tradition that you get in Mark and Matthew,
but at the same time to point forward and strongly affirm the Pauline idea of people from all the nations be getting the gospel sort of preached to them.
And, and, and that's what Paul is really the star of Acts of the Apostles.
I mean, so even though we call it Acts of the Apostles, the other apostles are kind of vanished by, well, Peter makes a very last appearance in Acts 15 in a kind of,
suddenly he's a minor character and then he's gone.
He's completely gone.
After chapter 15, you never see him again.
It's all Paul, Paul, Paul, Paul, Paul.
And then right at the end, Acts 28, Paul's in Rome and he's there preaching the gospel in Rome.
Having wiped the dust off his feet from all those who rejected.
So, so that's how Luke solves what was a real problem for a lot of people in the first century and well, and second century.
It was a case of how do we square this?
How do we square the fact that Jesus was Jewish Messiah?
As they saw it with the idea that actually the movement was now becoming predominantly a Gentile movement.
And all, all these early Christian writers that we know, they're grappling with this problem in different ways.
You mentioned Paul early on in Romans 11.
That Romans nine to 11 is Paul really grappling with this issue in the fifties already.
This is such a big, big question.
But you see Matthew dealing with the same question in other ways, Luke in other ways and so on.
And it never really ends.
You carry on with this question as Christianity becomes a predominantly Gentile movement.
And then, and then a firmly, you know, Gentile movement is ways part.
You know, you still see people grappling with this and you use the word theological.
Yes, they're grappling with it as a theological issue.
Why did God do things this way?
Because it seemed weird, but you know, they're grappling with that.
You are amazing.
Honestly, I really do value you what you bring to the table.
I love the way you explain things. You're well said.
I do want to say there's so many more questions that just come of this.
I will be interviewing Dr. Jason Staples at some point.
Oh, great. Yeah.
When he gets his two books, oh man, he is something else.
So I'm looking forward to reading his books and of course plugging them.
So you might have even more difficulty shutting him up than you have shutting me up.
I don't know if I want to.
I mean, I might have to interrupt him.
You got to answer my question.
But you're actually, I'm thankful that you came and joined me on this program.
We're bringing more to MythVision Podcast than just one idea that we talk about a lot of times is the historicity of Jesus.
But you even touched on that a little.
I kind of would love to go into further shows, but not just remotely.
I honestly think for history, you know, lots of books are being written,
but going down on camera with a very well, a good high quality image
and explaining a nine, 10 minute response to a single question and just meet you in person.
So with that being said, if you've watched this long, you can see his passion
and he knows quite a bit of information.
I just want to pick your brain and get your, get your opinions on some of these things.
And of course your expertise.
Make sure you guys pick up the books, Thomas and the Gospels, The Case Against Q,
The Synopic Problem, A Way Through the Maze, Golder and the Gospels,
and Examination of a New Paranime.
Did I pronounce that correct?
Very good.
All right.
I did it, ladies and gentlemen.
My redneck Southern accent made it.
Make sure you guys do that.
Help support what Dr. Goodacre is doing here.
And thank you so much.
I have more.
I have so much more.
You're just, thank you.
That's my pleasure.
I enjoyed the conversation.
Yeah.
Get ladies and gentlemen, we are MythVision.
