In this video, I discuss the historical Jesus coming from John Dominic Crossen's perspective.
We get deep into the weeds. This is an episode you don't want to miss.
Thank you to those who joined the Patreon. You get to view this before everyone else.
Dom, tell us about the historical Jesus. What can we know with any fair confidence
that he probably actually did and he probably actually said, because I want to divide those
into two things, because I mean, there's good reasons to think why someone might die.
The actions. But also, can we be confident in things that he said? And if so, how do we know?
Can you tell us about the historical Jesus? Yeah, I'm going now for the basic.
Jesus did exist. There's a consensus of scholarship on that, and I think they're
absolutely right. I am not sure anyone could so successfully fake a person like that.
And I don't know why they bother doing it, to be honest with you. So no, I think Tacitus talks
about Christians trying to explain who they were and goes back to Jesus. So does Josephus.
Jesus existed. Okay. The second surest thing we know about him, I would say, was that he was
crucified. Again, from Tacitus and Josephus, they were crucified under Tiberius by Pilate.
And they also notice that he was not, sorry, his followers weren't rounded up. And that tells me,
if that's all I had, that from the Roman point of view, this guy was not a violent rebel, or
there'd be at least 12 crosses up there. But he was a nonviolent rebel. He was seditious in the
Roman point of view. He was alarming the people, creating, he was, we were called an activist.
Not just talking, but activism is on that dangerous cusp between violence and nonviolence.
So he was an activist. And that's exactly what I would expect Rome to do with an activist.
You're crucified a leader that'll finish his movement. Tacitus and Josephus kind of wonder
why the movement continued and give their own explanations. Now, go back to his life.
I think the surest thing we could say about Jesus,
it was he talked about the kingdom of God. Let me get rid of that term, God's rule on earth.
That's what it means. Kingdom is kind of an old fashioned word, I know, and male words. So let's
talk about God's rule. What would this world be like if God sounds Caesar strong? We would say,
what if God was actually running the world? We might put it in American lingo and say,
what if God drew up the federal budget? What would it look like? What would the priorities be?
That's the religio-political meaning of the term God's rule on earth we're talking about.
And you can see the political implications of that, of course. Now, how do I know that?
In the, the enemies of Jesus, his enemies who looked at John the Baptist and Jesus and would
have considered both of them weirdos, dangerous weirdos maybe, agreed that John fasted and Jesus
feasted. They got that. Now they call them names, but I'm leaving out the names. You fast in preparation
for something that's coming, Advent or Lent in the Christian calendar. You feast in celebration of
something that has arrived. I take that as a very fair analysis of the difference. John,
very much like most of the tradition is saying, the kingdom of God, God's rule on earth is coming
soon. That's the apocalyptic revelation. That's not just coming in days to come at the end. It's
coming soon. If you don't have any announcement about soon, keep your day job in the first century.
Jesus is saying, as I understand it, Jesus is saying it's already here. That's, for example,
the, the parable of the mustard seed. Find it in Mark and in Q and says the kingdom, the kingdom of
God or God's rule. It's like a mustard seed. That's, if I was in the audience and Jesus came out with
that one, Jesus, are you nuts? A mustard seed and a domestic mustard seed. But that grows in time.
We've been told in the tradition that when God's rule come, it'll be bang crash and
they'll beat their swords and the plowshares and everything will be perfect. And maybe Jesus said,
yeah, did you notice that God wasn't beating the swords and the plowshares? They were doing it.
So the only way I can understand Jesus, speaking about the kingdom of God as already here, the only
way, unless it's a cruel joke, it's like telling people in the middle of the pandemic that it's,
it's gone. With people in hospitals gasping for bread and you say it's over. How can you say Jesus,
the kingdom of God is already here? Tiberius or what's his name or is still, you know, on his
throne or antiperspiracy, nothing has changed. We've been told the kingdom of God, God's rule
and earth would make everything just and peaceful and perfect. Are you serious, Jesus? The only way
I can understand him, if he says something like this as well, you guys have been waiting for God to
do it for you. Soon, someday, God's been waiting for you to do it alongside God. It's about collaboration,
not intervention. You might even use the words about a covenant. It's a two-way operation.
There ain't a one-way covenant. So I think Jesus, in a way, operates what you might call a
paradigm shift, a tradition swerve, a disruptive innovation, as we say today, in Jewish tradition
by saying God's rule is a collaborative affair. It's not about God's going to do it for you. Just
hang in there, pray, wait, expect. But it's also not about here, grab a sword. We're going to go and
do what the rebels did in the 60s and make sure that we make the kingdom happen. That would be the
very next question. So anyway, I got it, Jesus. You're saying God's waiting for us to get our
swords to your tents, O Israel. God is waiting for us to come out and fight with God. Is that
right, Jesus? Am I getting it right? And that's where Jesus says, for example, we've recorded it in
the Great Sermon, we call it the Sermon on the Mount. You have to be nonviolent. Why? Because
it'll bug the Romans or you won't get killed? No, because God in heaven is nonviolent. Look,
says Jesus. God sends the rain on the just and the unjust. Well, why doesn't He send the
thunderstorm and the unjust and a gentle dew on the just? Why does He make the sun and come up
every day for the good and the bad? So your nonviolence for Jesus is programmatically grounded
in Jesus's vision of God. God's rule, your action has to be nonviolent because you're
collaborating with a nonviolent God. Now, of course, you could see all the objections. Wait a minute,
Jesus, what about this? What about that? What about the others? So no wonder Jesus was talking all
the time. But his argument would be, you've tried this. He wouldn't use this where you said in four
BCE. What I was born about, he might have said, you tried. You tried that. For example,
you know, just Galileans would be in six. Okay. See, that's the time of the,
that was a nonviolent point of thing. That was the first Jewish experiment with nonviolent
resistance. That's where the legions, whenever the Jews rebelled violently, watch the legions march.
They'll come out from their Syrian bases to put it down with fire and sword. Whenever you get a
nonviolent movement against pilots, say, or against the statue of Kiligala, the legions don't have to
come. The legions were bringing down the statue in that case. But there's nonviolent resistance
as well. Sorry, I got slightly off the subject, but let me put it this way. Between the violent
revolt of four BCE and the Great War of 66 to 74, in those 70 years in between, there are repeated
examples of Jewish, forget Jesus for a moment, Jewish experiments with organized, massive,
nonviolent resistance. Not only against pilot, for example, all of this is in Josephus. There's
no secret, by the way, against Kiligala statue. They organized almost like sit-down strikes.
They're experimenting with nonviolence because they've just seen what happened.
In four BCE, the legions came south and 2000s were crucified in Jerusalem. That's the way the Romans
operated. So I understand Jesus as announcing a sort of my terminology, a paradigm shift within
the tradition. That it is our language, you might call it, a collaborative or a participatory
eschatology. But it's a process. I mean, if you use the mustard seed, that's a growth process.
If you use the domestic mustard seed, so that's one that you plant yourself.
So I think Jesus is about collaboration. And then everything that comes from that
is that violence is a nonviolent flow from that. So that's the one thing I'm sure about.
And I trusted not only on his announcement about the kingdom of God's rule, being here,
which had to raise that issue of violent, nonviolent, and pilot's judgment.
Pilot got it right. Trust pilot. He crucified Jesus, but he didn't round up
his close followers, we call them the 12, or the 11 after Judas. What do we do with...
Obviously, Paul did not meet Jesus. He, in some way, persecuted them. What he actually did in
his own letter versus what historical fiction acts wants to say he did, maybe two different things.
But yeah, because here he is holding the cloak of... While they stone Steven.
So I see.
Yeah. But in Paul, what do we see about a historical Jesus? Because many people will
argue, they'll try to say, well, Paul doesn't really talk about a historical Jesus. He doesn't
really care to mention his life, his family, where he comes from. He doesn't even talk about him being
a king of the Jews, these ideas that we see in the Gospels. So if we're looking for the
historical, the earliest sources we can find that talk about a historical Jesus, do you see a
historical Jesus in Paul anywhere? Paul is a little bit different, I think, about the fact
that he wasn't there, and he never met Jesus. He says, even if we knew him that way, we don't
know him that way anymore. That's a little bit like responding when somebody says, did you go there?
No, I wouldn't be bothered going there. Just answer the question. No, I didn't.
You don't know Jesus during his lifetime. Yeah, Peter can pull that one on you.
You can claim that you have a revelation of Jesus until Peter, that's fine, but Peter would
walk around Galilee with him and you didn't. So in one sense, he's not interested. But of course,
crucial for Paul is that Jesus was crucified. Absolutely crucial. Without that, the resurrection
doesn't make any sense. For example, supposing Jesus had not been crucified, but had died of
exhaustion, or advanced old age, would Paul have said he was resurrected? That's a sweeping
theological question that's never asked and should be asked. Because Paul would say, of course not.
Right. Because that is nice for Jesus and thank God, nice for God to do it. But where is it just
cosmic justice and all of that? No. So Paul talks about resurrection. Now, anyone who are crucifix,
I meant to say, sorry, if Paul was talking, say to, let's say some God worshipers, and he's talking
about Jesus was crucified, excuse me, excuse me, excuse me. Why was he crucified? He can't stop.
There was he a runaway slave? No. Was he a criminal? Why was he crucified?
You can't say somebody was crucified without kind of getting pulled in to explain why.
The general idea would be if somebody is crucified, probably a criminal, though in
a colonized country you might well presume who's crucified was anti-Roman or something.
You could not explain something. And in fact, the closest Paul ever comes to almost quoting Jesus
is that part in Romans, it's at the end of chapter 12, where he almost quotes Jesus saying,
love your enemies. He doesn't quite do it, but he's almost the same. That's the closest he ever comes
to quoting Jesus. So Paul had to have known enough about the life of Jesus to understand
crucifixion. Now back up, Paul admits, he says it all the time, I was a persecutor.
His conversion was from being a persecutor to being an apostle.
You can't persecute, and if you're kind of an honest person like Paul, unless you know
something about the people, why would he persecute? And I don't give him this vision that Luke has of
a sweeping persecutory all over Jerusalem, sent under authority of the High Priest all the way
to Damascus for rendition. That's rubbish. No High Priest has such authority as cross-Roman boundaries
or do anything like that. I think Paul was in the synagogue at Damascus and was a sort of a
maybe self-appointed ideological enforcer. I don't know if that was his job.
He knew all about this group within the synagogue. He couldn't have persecuted them if they were
separate from the synagogue. You know authority even within the synagogue, but if you were in the
synagogue and were a Jew in the synagogue and you had messianic ideas or claims or anything else,
you could be disciplined within the synagogue. They could toss you out, first of all, which would
put you kind of lost between worlds, so it wasn't nothing. You know, if you were tossed out of the
synagogue, you know, that would be serious. If you stayed in the synagogue, then you could be
disciplined. You could be beaten. Good. So I think Paul was an enforcer in the synagogue at Damascus.
That's the least we're sure. He certainly wasn't coming from Jerusalem on a mandate from the High
Priest. So I see him as a persecutor. Now, you cannot persecute without knowing enough about people,
position, that you really don't like it. It annoys you. It infuriates you enough that you're going
to try and, his term, destroy it. Now, I don't think he could kill them. The Romans had their
own ideas about who was allowed to kill whom, at least publicly. So no, I don't think he's
killing them, but he probably could get them ostracized from the synagogue. And that is no small
thing. If you could imagine a small town somewhere where everyone is the same religion, small town
somewhere in America where everyone is Roman Catholic and somebody is tossed out of the Roman
Catholic tradition, well, nobody goes to a store. So it's serious business. But he is a persecutor,
and therefore he knew about it. Of course, he knew about the life of Jesus.
That's not his interest, though. The interest is a crucifixion resurrection.
It's really interesting to think about this whole conversion, because I've thought to myself,
yeah, Paul absolutely knows the Jesus movement, knows the sayings, and has an idea of what this
guy said, especially if he's persecuting. He had to have investigated to know enough.
And some people think, well, you know, that Paul doesn't know anything, and he's only,
everything he's ever received and ever knows is from a revelation of Jesus.
Good old Luke, now. Right. I mean, he himself, in Galatians, he sums up his, let's call it conversion
now, because we mean from a persecutor to a apostle. And conversion is a fair word there,
or it's vocation, if you will. He doesn't want sentence. God, who knew me from my mother's womb,
and called me for my birth, like Isaiah and Jeremiah, revealed his son to me,
a mom was going verbatim, that I might proclaim him to the Gentiles. That's it, one sentence.
Luke takes three full accounts. So, of course, Paul knows it. Of course, he knows it. He can't
not know it. Not because he goes up to Peter and asks what a Galilean evening was like.
He had to argue with these people. In the Jewish synagogue, you didn't just say,
I disagree with you, I'm going to persecute you. You can do that. You would have to argue, debate,
either be, as I said, the self-enforced and approved enforcer, and that basically the synagogue is
with you, to the general idea that this sub-movement or this group, this group within the synagogue,
they had to be within the synagogue or he couldn't have touched them. I can't say that often enough.
If there were a group out there of Gentiles, let's imagine, saying whatever they were, he couldn't
have touched them. His only power was to toss them out of the synagogue, which was serious.
But to do that, he had to know all they stood for.
One more thing, if I may, I've heard people say that the king of the Jews, we all have heard it,
we've seen it written on the plaque up there on the crucifixion itself. This sedition from this
renderer and deceaser, that which is Caesar, that which is God, secret treason to him actually being
told in some of the gospel narratives of his crucifixion that he would be a king or be the king
of the Jews, do you think there's a historical kernel to the reality of him by his own group
of Jews who followed him in thinking that he would actually be the king of the Jews?
And this is why they hint. I don't have any evidence. Right. Let me put it this way. In the
first century, Augustus is the son of God. And I would have no problem in theory with somebody
looking at Jesus and looking at a coin say, well, you want to know what my son of God looks like?
It's you. Not what's his name over there in Rome. They understood in the first century that son of
God was not some literal biological tampering with your mother. It was actually stating that you're
the heir of God on earth. You represent God on earth. I don't think it will be advisable to
say to Augustus, you understand, you're just a metaphor. But he knew that being son of God meant
he represented God on earth to say the same about Jesus. I don't know what happened. Was it
possible? Of course it's possible. In the title, Jesus talked about the rule of God. That was his
theme. They wanted to talk about something else. Are you the Messiah? Jesus will probably have said,
will you stay on the subject? Will you stay on script? Will you stay on message? It is about
conducting the king of God's rule on earth. If you want to talk about how we will, don't talk about
me. Well, you're proclaiming God's rule on earth. Who are you? Well, I don't know what answer you
had to that. So this whole discussion about the Jesus, say, was a Messiah. Did you say with some
God? Is again, to make certain we don't talk about the real stuff, which is that Jesus claimed
God's rule was already here on earth, and we better join the program. Now, as I read that today,
2000 years later, he is making a claim on me. I can say I'm not a Christian. I don't care, but
that's fine. He's making a claim on the world. That includes me. I have to decide if I'm doing
this to argue Jesus. I have to describe accurately what his claim is. Then I can say or not say,
I think he was right. I think he was wrong. That's a separate issue. But if I am a journalist
and a candidate's boss who's running for president, he happens to be a Republican. I
happen to be a Democrat. My job is to do a faithful record of what he's saying.
I may be saying at the back of my mind, this is war. I don't believe a word of this.
Fine. You're not writing editorial opinion. The same with Jesus. If I'm trying to do the
historical Jesus, I'm trying to do my best. Here's what Jesus is saying. Then if you ask me,
if you want to ask me, how do I think about it? I'll tell you, but I don't have to.
That's where I move from history into theology. You didn't really want to go into this,
but I figure at least on the record, it might be worth asking, can you tell us your opinion
of the mythicist model? At one point, I guess at one point, it was taken seriously in academia
in late 1800s, early 1900s, and then it started to fade away. I think after we had our Dead Sea
Scrolls, it was done more investigation. It's learned a lot since then. What is your opinion
of mythicism? The idea that Jesus is either a complete fictional, celestial, mythological
character or something to that effect? Supposing I had the New Testament,
nothing else. I had just the New Testament story about Jesus.
I think I could be easily persuaded. I have no Greek material, no Roman material, no Jewish
material. I presented like with the New Testament. It's kind of fallen from heaven.
I probably wouldn't use the word myth about it because I tend to use myth only for
transcendental values. This guy seems to be walking around Galilee and he doesn't seem to be working
like Mars and Venus, make love, not war or something. It would bother me because it doesn't seem to be
the pattern of other mythical stuff. I could easily say to myself, yeah, it could be myth.
Now, the problem is we know too much history. If I thought Augustus, you mentioned in an earlier
conversation, Suetonius' description of Augustus, the powerful portents about his birth, what happened
when he was coming of age with the toga, the portents about his death and all he did in between,
you could easily persuade me that this is a picture of the idea of a Roman emperor.
They wrote this maybe after they had Caligula and they had Nero and they wanted to show
so they're inventing a good emperor. But then I get down to the nitty-gritty of the story.
I say, boy, they really know stuff from the first century, from early first century,
we can corroborate with other stuff. So I'd have to say, no, I don't think they're making up this
story. But that depends on a lot of other material. If I only had Suetonius on Caesar Augustus and
nothing else whatsoever, I could easily think it's a parable about the good emperor. Sure.
So what's wrong with the myth in this position is they don't know enough history.
Read Augustus. He is the Son of God. He is the Lord. He's the God incarnate. He's the
redeemer from sin. He is, what else, savior of the world. Every title that he has,
all of a sudden I begin to see there's a new character in town called Jesus of Nazareth.
He's getting all of these titles and he comes from a tiny little
hamlet even. What can they possibly mean to say he's the Lord when everyone knows Caesar is the
Lord? This smells to me if I'm a Roman official. It's either a very funny, no, it's a very dangerous
joke. Maybe they're making a joke of our guy because they've got this Galilee in peasant who is the
Lord and the savior of the world. I'm going to investigate what's going on here. So when I see
the whole everything we've got from that period, no. They're making transcendental claims about
Jesus without a doubt. They're not saying he's a nice guy. He's got a good philosophy.
He passed little babies on the head, tells great parables. No, they're not. They're saying
he is a more appropriate ruler for the world than what's his face over there sitting on a
Roman throne. That is treason. Or as I said, it's just a joke, but it's treason. And to give the
Romans their credit, they recognize it was. So it's natural if Jesus is talking about
God's rule on earth or the kingdom of God, maybe he thinks he's the king.
I think Pilate was told this guy is going around talking about the kingdom of God,
creating a movement, fostering trouble. They may well have said the pilot and he thinks he's the
king. The pilot would probably have laughed, you know, but you crucify people for thinking thoughts
like that. So I see no problem with Pilate putting king of the Jews. Not king of Israel, by the way.
Not king of Israel. That's the confessional title. King of the Jews, just exactly what
Pilate would probably put up on the cross as his interpretation of, if you're talking about
the kingdom of God, then you must think you're the king. And you're doing it here, so you think
you're the king of the Jews. I'll teach you. Yeah, all of it makes absolute sense to me.
It's better than when I watch people in that world who are making up stuff, really fiction.
Boy, you can smell the fiction all over the place. There is no nitty gritty that makes any sense.
So I'm completely convinced that, yeah, they're making transcendental claims about Jesus. That's
what a gospel is. Gospel is good news. If I tell you something is good news, you know I'm interpreting.
X has become president. That's good news. No, that's my interpretation of the fact that somebody
became president X. And I think it's good news. It might be bad news for you. These are valid
interpretations of the fact that X became president. So now we're looking at Jesus.
And if I'm doing historical Jesus research, I know he was crucified. I know he was worshiped
within 100 years. I have to explain honestly why such different results for this guy.
And why did the movement last? That's my job. Then I can say, I think I'm glad the movement lasted.
Now I'm stepping outside of my, now I'm going to editorial. I'm moving from news to editorial.
So if I'm trying to do history, I was trying to describe the way I would have seen Jesus if I
had been there. But I will insist that Jesus is making claims. I won't say, well, he was just a
nice guy. And the nasty Romans are, nasty high priests kill them just for being a nice guy. No.
They kill them for making transcendental claims that were opposed to theirs.
Thank you.
