Ladies and gentlemen, get the book Dr. Joshua Bowen wrote.
The atheist handbook to the Old Testament, it is extremely full of knowledge and information
for anyone.
As well as join the Patreon, there's hundreds of videos that have not released to the internet.
You can ask questions and I will record them with these scholars in high definition.
I do that all the time.
You can also personal message me and you help the community grow.
Thanks a lot.
Dr. Joshua Bowen, I have thought about this for a long time and I thought, okay, you know,
who created math?
You know, who came up with calculating things?
And this probably goes way deep into deep history on who created mathematics and knowing
counting and algebra or specific mathematics.
We probably don't know when that came on the scene.
But something we might can ascertain is where did writing come from?
When did it pop up on the scene and what's the best, I mean, if it's a guess, you know,
when did it start or maybe we know.
So I'm asking you, you know, can you tell us about how writing began?
Yeah, so there's still aspects of it that are debated and I haven't looked into tail
at this in a while.
So I will do my best as always.
But essentially writing, it was invented in Mesopotamia and Hurrah, we got it.
Mesopotamia gets that first.
Writing began in Sumer.
So what had it started in like the second half of the fourth millennium late fourth millennium
and we have tablets, right?
We have we have tablets from that from that period.
And the way that writing arguably began is that there were these there were these small
things called tokens and they were just these little clay shapes, you know, look like tokens
and they represented commodities.
So there are people that there's one by the name of Denise Schmott-Besserat, who wrote
a whole book on this.
Of course, it's been critiqued by in particular by a guy named Paul Zmanski.
And but nonetheless, the main aspects of the argument seem to seem to fit.
And that is that originally these tokens represented commodities.
And so let's say let's say I have sheep, I own sheep, and they need to go out and go
around.
And I'm going to, you know, and graze, I don't want to do that.
So I hire you to do that.
And what I'm going to do is I'm going to have I'm going to sell 10 sheep to this guy that
lives, you know, far away, another city.
But I need you to take them out and graze them for a while and then get them over there.
And your payment will be whatever sheep during the season that reproduce, I'm just coming
up with this.
Whatever sheep reproduce above the 10, you get to keep.
So how do I guarantee that if there's no writing?
How do I guarantee that when you get over to the other city, and you're supposed to
deliver 10 sheep, how does that guy guarantee that I intended I gave you 10 sheep in the
beginning?
Because you could easily go over there and just give them five.
Oh yeah.
You know, Josh said you get five sheep.
Like how do you guarantee that?
And so what they would do is they would take five or 10 tokens, let's say for 10 sheep,
and they would put them inside of a clay ball, an empty clay ball, seal it up, and it would
harden.
And sometimes they would imprint like a like a seal or something on it.
But nonetheless, you've got this, this sealed clay ball and inside chink, chink, chink,
10 tokens.
So now you take that, you take that clay ball with the 10 tokens with you, you go over there
and you hand it to the guy, he breaks it open, counts 10, okay, you're supposed to get 10
sheep, whatever.
I'm just coming up with this example.
I have no idea if there's actually anything that this is, but this is the idea behind it.
I mean, the ball, all that's wrong.
Yes, that's right.
But what you're talking about is right.
The actual scenario of 10 sheep going across to another city.
Got it.
I'm just trying to find something to make it, make it fit.
But the same, like that's how it was used.
You've got 10 sheep.
This determines that you've, you're supposed to give 10 sheep.
Okay.
Um, well, what they did then eventually is they started before they sealed them in the
empty clay ball, the envelope, they call it, they would take the tokens and impress them
on the outside 10 times, right?
So now then they'd seal them inside, chink, chink, chink, and what you would see is the
impression of 10 of, let's say a little triangular shapes, um, and they would know inside of
the ball were 10 tokens.
So it was just a quick way to look at the outside without having to break it open.
And it was a way that you could confirm, you know, 10 on the outside, 10 on the inside.
Well, eventually they realized again, this is over time, but not a lot of time.
I think maybe a thousand years.
I'm again, I'm pulling that, um, from memory here, but, uh, it wasn't like a crazy long
period of time, 100,000 years or something, you know, um, they realized that they didn't
need the tokens on the inside anymore.
They could impress it 10 times, like, and just smush the thing flat.
And once it hardened in the clay, those 10 wedges, it worked, right?
You could just look at them and you didn't need to crack it open.
And so that process, uh, of being able to count, you know, this is an economic thing.
It's being used for recording purposes that way, that that seems to be the process by
which writing developed is, uh, you know, moving through these stages.
So, you know, writing, when it developed again, it wasn't to write literature.
It wasn't to do poetry or anything.
It was for economic purposes, right?
You're tabulating things and you're, you know, putting down different types of commodities
on these tablets.
Um, and again, we have these tablets, you can go to the museum and see them.
If you go out to the Burditt Museum, I think they've got a bunch of them on display or
at least they did the last time I was there.
Um, and so that writing system, you know, we have evidence of it developing in the last
part of the fourth millennium.
We think that it was Sumerian, it's, there's good evidence.
It seems that it was Sumerian, uh, in its earliest stages, there's some phonetic arguments
that are kind of complicated, um, but real quick, so that I'm tracking, um, it goes from
simple triangles, so to speak, not really a language, right?
It's, it's, and you're calculating commodities, most likely like you said, sheep or whatever
might be anything cattle, no matter.
When did an alphabet type of thing, like, uh, when did it go from, look, we realized
when we were transferring information that is necess, like a necessity, um, based on
just marking, putting marks on this clay, when did someone finally go, you know what,
we can actually transfer not numbers, but words that we actually communicate verbally,
orally, in the same way in a transmission, like, is that in that same range?
So there's something called the rebus principle, and it, it took some time for this to happen,
but let's say, um, let's say in English, here in America, we didn't have an alphabet.
We just had pictures that we drew for every word, right?
So let's say I drew a little shape of a shoe for a shoe, and let's say I drew a stick figure
for a man, right?
Well, eventually we might realize that, well, there's a guy over here named, you know, John
Shuman, and we might go, you know what, shoe, man, well, if I put these together, shoe and
man, you could pronounce Shuman.
Now that doesn't mean that when you put those two together that you're talking about a shoe
and a guy, right, a footwear and a person, you're using their phonetic values, shoe,
and man, to pronounce the last name Shuman.
I'm trying to think of another good, another example, like, um, but initially it's a symbol.
It's not like that's right alphabet, like we don't have an ABCD yet.
It's not, it's not an alphabet.
An alphabet is just a system of individual letters, right?
These are syllables, okay?
So it's not just the SH sound, it's the SHU sound, shoe, and MAN, man, so those are syllables.
But that's called the Rebus principle.
So the example that I like to use, and I use it in my book, by the way, if people are interested
in this, this is terrible, but I will grab it, grab it.
I think it's like a lot of people are checking out that work, actually.
Megan and I wrote this book called Learn to Read Ancient Sumerian for the Absolute Beginner.
And it's, it's a book that if you're interested in learning Sumerian, the earliest writing,
I explain and she explains, you know, this stuff in some detail.
So it's actually a lot of fun.
It's pretty cool just so, just because this is the coolest part of the book to show when
you talk about it, is the hand copies of Sumerian tablets, right?
She did those by hand.
And that's what Sumerian looks like when it's, you know, in an inscription.
And those right there, are those syllables?
Yes.
Well, it, that's a good question.
Let me explain.
So there are three ways.
Each of those is an individual sign, if you can see those.
So there are one, two, three, four signs in the top line.
On the black side.
That's right over here.
So there are four individual signs.
So the way that Sumerian works is each of those signs, each of those symbols, can have
generally one of three different uses.
And we've talked about two of them already with the shoe and the man.
So it can just be a noun or a verb.
It can be a word, a whole word.
So for example, there's a, like a boxy looking symbol.
That's a and a me a to, and it means house, some boxy looking thing.
So it's like the layout of a house, right?
Or a song, song essay, nasalized G has the shape.
It looks like a head and song means head.
Ka means mouth.
And it's the song sign, but there are little hash marks by where the mouth would be to
highlight the mouth.
So those are all signs that can have form signs that mean individual words.
But as you can hear a song, Ka, those are all syllables as well.
So there's the word for milk is ga, the word for sky is on, and the word for to build,
the verb to build is do.
So ga for milk, on for sky, do for built.
You might say, why in the world did you just tell me those three things?
Because the verb let me build is gondu.
So do you hear to build?
It's like the base of the verb.
Gondu means let me build or I will build.
But to write gondu in the same way that you would write shuman, you take the sign for
milk, the sign for sky, and the sign for build, do, and you put them all together.
And it doesn't mean milk, sky, build.
It means I will build because it's using milk and sky, ga and on phonetically to represent
the sound ga, ga, on.
So that's how writing developed and that's how the Canadian form developed into this
system because it can mean individual words, but then it can also mean their phonetic values.
So when you put them together, you can make longer words and they don't mean their individual
like word values, if that makes sense.
So as an example, if you've ever heard of Zacharias Sitchin, Zacharias Sitchin wrote
a book called The 12th Planetary, wrote a bunch of other books, it's actually on our
shelf here somewhere.
But he makes this mistake of seeing verbal forms in Sumerian, which are made up of several
different signs because they're, you have the verbal base, but then you have these syllables
that come before it.
So ga, on, du, ga, on, come before du, well you have mu, un, du, or mu, un, na, you know,
du or whatever, and or mu, na, un, mu, na, on, du.
But anyway, those are all individual signs.
Well, what he does is he looks at them and says, oh, so ga, on, du.
So this is the milk in the sky, which builds.
Milky way.
Yeah.
Oh, it's the milky way.
You're like, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute.
That's not what this is.
It's not three different words being put together.
It's one verbal form, shuman.
It's shuman.
It's not footwear guy.
Oh, so it's like the male form of footwear.
No, it's shuman.
It's a guy's last name.
Well that's, that's what's happening.
It's using the rebus principle.
And so he makes the mistake, I think probably because he doesn't know Sumerian, of reading
individual words and it's just one verbal form.
But that's, those are two of the three ways that Sumerian signs are used.
The third is there, let's say I was talking to you about Enlil and Enlil, he's, you know,
really great and he brought the flood and Enlil, but you don't know who Enlil is.
So I would say the God Enlil did X, Y, and Z.
Well by me saying the God before Enlil, I'm telling you that Enlil is a deity.
That's why I'm doing that.
Well Sumerian has a way of doing that.
They put the word God before a proper name or proper noun, that is a divine name.
And that tells you that the name that's coming, this is the name of a deity.
So they'll put the star sign, it actually is just because it's one of the easiest to
see.
That's the God symbol.
It's the God symbol and you can see it now that you know that.
And real quick, while you're doing this, is this the oldest language that we know of that
was written?
Yes.
Sumerian.
Okay.
Wow.
So nothing's older that is written.
That's correct.
I mean, obviously there's orals, there's language spoke, but how long we don't know yet?
I'm not going to say that people don't know, but I don't know that, but that's not your
wheelhouse to say how long we've had languages.
So can you see, is that clear?
I can't tell.
Which one is it?
This first one here, it looks like a little starburst.
A little naughty.
Yeah.
No, I'm just kidding.
Let me zoom in.
You see it here.
Oh, wow.
Yeah.
That's cool.
And you can see it here.
Are there other places that you can see it on this?
I don't see them.
All right.
Let's go back to another one because this is cool.
Once you can recognize the sign that you can see it everywhere.
Yeah.
So there's one here.
My name comes right after that.
Holy crap.
Right.
There's one here.
This is a broken one.
Oh, why is that broken?
Because the, this is a clay tablet and these are, they're taking a stylus and pressing into
the clay to create wedges, which is what can a form means, wedge shaped.
So this one here, it's probably the clay got broken off right there.
Oh, I thought that was on purpose.
Like they meant to.
No, no, no.
Okay.
Yeah.
It's just broken off, but there's one there.
Right.
So, so now you know, this is called the Dinger sign, Dinger, but it's also, it's also read
on as in sky, right?
But they would put this at before a name.
So here, this is a divine name, Nama.
So Dinger Nama, that tells you this is a divine name, right?
This is Dinger Ba'u.
So Ba'u is the name of a deity.
Wow.
So you know a little Sumerian already, right?
Yeah.
So that's called a determinative.
And they say that because it determines what the next word is that's coming.
So there are different types of determinatives.
There's a river determinative.
So they'll put the river sign and the word that's next to it is the name of a river.
There's one for wood.
So they'll write Nish, which is also the word for penis, which is pretty cool.
Interesting.
Wood.
Oh, it's got some like deep, deep illuminati, baby.
So you're telling me, man, you got a Woody, I got you.
But they'll put Nish in front of like a chair, if it's made of wood.
Okay.
Nish Guza.
Guza is the name for chair, the word for chair, so Nish Guza would be a wooden chair.
They have city name determinatives.
They have determinatives for professions.
They'll put the word man in front of a profession.
Anyway, the point is that that's another way that a Canadian form sign can be used.
So it can be used as a noun just by itself.
Like the, our sign for shoe, if we drew a shoe, that would be the word shoe.
It could be used as a phonetically as a syllable.
And so shoo-man, shoe and man, stick figure or whatever.
We put them together and it doesn't mean the manly shoe.
It means we're reading these phonetically shoo-man.
By the way, you see that all the time at graduations.
If somebody says, you know, my name is Francesca Stavrakapulu, right?
Well, if somebody doesn't know that name and they're going to read a hundred different
names in graduation, they'll say to you, hey, write out your name phonetically so that
they don't mispronounce it.
So when I wrote mine, I didn't write J-O-S-H-U-A.
I wrote J-A-H-S-H-O-E-W-A-H-Jah-Shoo-Wah.
So that's written phonetically.
So shoo-man would be writing shoo-man out phonetically.
So it can be used as a noun, it can be used phonetically, or it can be used as a determinative,
like the Dinger sign or the other.
This is really, really good.
So while we have a couple of minutes left, I want to ask, it sounds like language, written
language, not just like, and it's cool that you showed us mathematically that we're like
no alphabetical or anything, there was no symbols language going on, just triangular
imprints saying, all right, 10 sheep, send that tablet with your man, that way he knows
that you didn't rip them off when you get it, whatever.
The same can be applied to written alphabetical language phonetically and whatnot as you're
describing here.
I suspect its origins is just taking the next step of saying, okay, it's a little more complicated
than just here's 10 sheep that you see at 10 marks.
You need to make sure that they get my message safely.
And this is the, it's interesting that you bring that up because there's a myth called
Enmerkar and the Lord of Arata.
And the story is, there's this trope that shows up in Sumerian literature several times
where you have the city of Uruk, the very popular city, and the city of Arata, which
is supposed to be way out to the East.
And they have a rivalry with each other.
And so Enmerkar is the king of Uruk, which is where Gilgamesh was king, by the way.
And Arata has its own king, right?
And they have this competition in this story, Enmerkar and the Lord of Arata.
They have a competition, who's going to be the cleverer of the two?
And they have, I can't remember all the different things they compete with, like they ask essentially
riddles to one another, but riddles that they have to physically solve.
So one is, can you, can you transport grain across these seven mountains to reach me only
using a net?
And what, like, I can't remember exactly, but like he, he soaks the grain or something
so that it starts to grow out like the, I'm not a agricultural guy, but does it like grow
out?
I don't know.
Yeah, anyway, but it means that it could stay in the, in the net because it had started
to expand out of it anyway.
But one of the things that is challenging is he asks him something and the, the king
of Uruk, Enmerkar gives this really long answer and it's too much for the messenger
who's been doing the running back and forth to remember.
So Enmerkar takes some clay and writes the message down.
They're telling you the myth of how it got started.
Wow.
So when he goes, like he breeds it to, yeah, so it's, it's pretty cool how, and, and when
he gives it to the Lord of Arata, it says it was all just nails to him, which if you
think about how Kanaeiform looks, it looks like little nails.
There's some debate about the word that's used there, it's Gog and is that what is intended
by it?
But nonetheless, it's the, at least it means it was too confusing for him to read, which
showed how the Lord of Arata, I mean, the king of Uruk, Enmerkar was more clever than
the Lord of Arata.
Well, you got to admit, I don't care who you are, someone who was smart enough to come
up with this was a smart cookie.
But if this is a great example, we don't just want to read Enmerkar and the Lord of
Arata and say, oh, okay, Enmerkar, this king of Uruk invented writing.
Right.
No.
No.
It's more complex.
But you know what, if it were in the Bible, people would have a huge problem with you
saying that.
Yeah, that's true.
Like, whoa, whoa, whoa, it says here that Enmerkar invented writing.
Now what evidence do you have that, that contradicts that?
So now we got a uphill climb with people that are just not, I think, not fairly treating
other literature the way that we would, we're trying to equally treat it the way we treat
other literature.
That is exactly right.
So.
That is exactly right.
Thank you, Dr. Bowen.
I appreciate it.
This was fantastic.
Good.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
Bye.
