Ladies and gentlemen welcome to MythVision. You have never seen this duo historically on video.
Dr. Richard C. Miller, Dr. Dennis R. McDonald are going to take us into a deep dive on the scholarship
in the field and wherever they want to take this. I'm a fly on the wall as you are and we will enjoy.
Richard, it's a pleasure to be able to talk with you publicly. I'm so proud. You've really made me
proud. I was your professor for your dissertation. It got published and it's getting some traction
and I'm very proud of you. What I would like to do in this conversation with you is to describe
for people who are watching the difference between a history of religion's approach
to comparative mythology and a memetic approach. Both of them are valid. Both of them have had
traction on myth vision, but I think this gets blurred for many people who have watched
various podcasts in the past. In order to begin the discussion, I want to talk about Joseph Campbell's
Here With A Thousand Faces. It's a wonderful psychoanalytic treatment of comparative mythologies
saying that there are archetypes in the mythic pattern that is related to the human experience
universally. He's a Jungian psychoanalyst and so he thinks that the various mythologies of the world
can be clustered into trajectories of a tale and have multiple manifestations. Folkloreists have
criticized that methodology because they say we're less interested in the hero than in the
thousand faces. That is, we think that the special variations of these myths are just as important
as the monomyth because the monomyth has to do with psychologizing mythology, but the thousand faces
has to do with the sociology and the cultural anthropology of how these myths get then reprocessed.
This happens in biblical scholarship as well so that you have really mastered with one trajectory
a history of religion's approach to what you call the translation fable or the empty tomb tradition
and so on. My orientation, which has something more to do with The Here With A Thousand Faces,
that you have a thousand examples almost in your book, fable. My orientation is more like the
folklorist who's interested in the thousand faces, and that is the faces that we find in
New Testament writings of various mythological pieces. You can trade on general cultural patterns
and trajectories that way. My orientation is more to the comparison of two texts and the ones
that I'm most familiar with and probably the most known for are the Homeric epics on the one hand
and early Christian and Jewish stories on the other that shaped their cultural identities
by engaging with the Homeric epics, sometimes sympathetically, to say that, for example,
the death of Jesus is similar to the death of Hector. But in other cases, it's agonistic. That's
competitive. That is, the Jesus is more compassionate than an Odysseus, for example. And I think the
Gospel of Mark and Luke Acts are not intended to be historical. They're intended to be
mythy of origins. That is, myths of origins. They're telling stories like Virgil's Aeneid,
that's a mythos of the early Roman Empire. And the reader is not expected to see them as historical,
but as culturally engaging. So I'd like to respond to that. Both methodologies are important.
Both have been present in the vision of the thanks to Derek Lambert, but those are different
processes. And at some point, I'd like to say more about what Mimesis criticism contributes
and why it seems to be so outlawed, scholarly discussion. This is a pleasure to be here. I
studied under you and I've always been honored to be associated with you and your work's brilliant.
It's shaken up the academic community in so many ways. And people are still having difficulty
processing what it is that you've contributed. And I think we will for quite some time.
The idea of Jung and Campbell and this idea that there's some sort of archetype in the
psychology of the human psyche or something like this. In some ways, in the book, I rejected that.
But I do think that it's important to understand the psychological, maybe unconscious or subconscious
elements for why we create these stories to begin with. What are we up to as a species?
And why do we need these stories? Why are they so integral to our existence? Not merely
items of pleasure or entertainment, but I argue in the book that these are vital aspects of the
human plight, important for our survival and our sense of meaning and this sort of thing.
But at the same time, though, I think there's enough going on there that you could describe
in terms of the human needs that are going on. I mean, you can even go back to Freud and others,
but there's so much that's gone on since then, right? That's all sort of water under the bridge
at this point. But we can identify why is it that heroes transcend death or the sufferings of this
world are somehow able to conquer those or overcome them or have miraculous births or this sort of
thing. The story arcs tend to be, I think, in one part of the book. I'd explore one scholar
had put forward six different discrete story arcs that tend to dominate almost all of the different
folk tales and larger epic patterns that we see through almost any civilization. So that to me
is an interesting topic. But when we get to the Greco-Roman world, we've got something very particular
going on there. We've got Hellenism. And that is the deliberate imitation of the Greeks. And
mimesis, that's what we mean. And when we talk about Greek, you've taught me this and I've studied
it myself extensively. We're talking about imitation. We're talking about trying to pattern
a story or any kind of cultural artifact or particular expression and cultural capital
after another, in this case, the Greeks. And so Hellenism, if we want to talk about that happening
at all in the New Testament, I think we have to argue that, okay, what were they imitating then
precisely? Very good. And if not the most canonized works of the Hellenistic world, then what?
Right. There you go. And so I think that drives us right into your research. Whatever people want
to make of it this way or that, I think we have to deal with that question. We can't just push it
off the table like what has happened in mainstream New Testament studies is a kind of negligence.
Really, it's borderline criminal in the sense that how is this not the obvious question on the
table? I had a very good friend named Albert Lord, who was the writer of Singer of Tales.
And at the time, he was one of the best Homeric scholars in the world. And we became very good
friends at Harvard. His orientation, we had a conversation once and he said, Dennis, and this
was before I was interested in the Homeric stuff, but I was interested in him. He was a very good
friend and a brilliant man. He said, why is it that in your field, the most important author
in the Greek-speaking Roman Empire, Homer, is invisible? And why is it that with all the discussion
about rhetoric and composition, mimesis is not involved in the discussion at all? And that
really set me on my heels. Actually, I was a bit defensive at first. And then I realized he was right.
And I've been trying to rectify that situation over and over. I'm going to change the subject
modestly. So if you want to come back to this, you can. But I'm doing another book that's called
Synoptic Epistles and Homeric Epics. And it's a collection of my own apocryphal epistles written
in the name of the authors of the Gospels in which they covetch against each other. They
criticize each other and anti-harmonization of the Gospels, if you will. And they really get
pretty testy with each other in discussing. But one of the things that I do is I replace
the jargon of modern biblical scholarship with the vocabulary that they would have learned
in school about how to rewrite. And we've not talked about this before. And it takes a little
learning. But I want to just give a little for our viewers, not for you, a little Greek lesson.
One is that they would have called imitation mimesis. And they would have called the model
for mimesis a tipos, that is a type. That is, and one thinks of a signet ring that gets placed on
wax. And so we are, the word typewriter comes from tipos. It's the way of writing with a type,
right? It makes an impression, but the impression is not identical to the signet. So that's the
tipos. When mimesis is different from a revision of something, which scholars call a redaction,
they would call it metophysis, a rephrasing, a metophysis. And the original that they are
rephrasing is prototipos, where we get the word a prototype. But one of the, and also to identify
similarities between two texts that put them together in a hermeneutical dance, one might say.
Those are called the parellely, where we get the word parallels. So the parellely are the places
where you see similarities between two. But then you have this issue of a difference that is a
comparison, often showing one character to be better than another. And that's called a synchrosis.
And if you think one author hasn't imitated as well as you have, it's called a zealusis,
where we get the word zealot. And so throughout my book, I use those terms and not the terms of
modern biblical scholarship for the authors to describe what they're doing. In some cases,
it's a metophysis. That is, it's a redaction. And the source document is called a prototipus.
Sometimes, though, it's an imitation of poetry or imitating teepee. That is the types. So it's
very interesting to me to replace phenomena of modern scholarship with ancient terms.
Now, terms of the history of religions, you don't need that vocabulary, because you're not talking
about that one text using another. So this is just for the information of our viewers.
I'm really excited about this move of using the categories of the ancients to describe how they
review each other, how they viewed each other, and how they rewrote each other.
Yeah, I think it's a correct move. I've even gone as far as to say that it feels like, to me,
the idea of redaction, the rubrics that we're using, the kind of the language that we're mapping to,
it feels like this is a contrived effort in the modern time for us to make sense of something.
Now that we're at the point where we're understanding the ancient world much better,
perhaps, than any other time in history, yeah, it seems like it makes sense to why not use their
thought categories, why not use their methodologies, their idea, their way of composing. And when you
think about it, you've got, even in this inoptic problem, you've got this idea that if Mark wasn't
sufficient, they could have just recopied Mark over and over and just distributed that endlessly.
Why did they go on and create more? And we have it sequestered off only for,
they were creating a lot more than just for. It was a factory. And a lot of it was following the
same kind of peritactic patterns, the same kind of syntagmatic sorts of cadence and this sort of
thing in pericapy and the shapes of these stories. Why were they following that pattern? Where did
that come from? And that competition, I would say is zealous. It's a rivalry. So it's not just saying,
oh, I love this story. I'm just going to retell it. No, I'm going to tell it better or I'm going to
omit it. I mean, that's something else. Before we started talking, we were talking about an example
of mimesis, where you have both a metophysis and a mimesis in the cue document, or at least
if people don't like cue, you can talk about a pre-Markan independent tradition. We have a story
of the great supper. A man prepares a supper. At the time of the, when the feast is ready,
a slave is sent out to invite those to come to dinner. Three people are busy with other things
and they cannot come. And the householder is not only disappointed, but he's angry. He tells the
slave, go out and invite into the feast whomever you find. So this is an inclusion of probably
Gentiles or others into the family called the kingdom of God, something like that.
Mark knows that story, but he transforms it. Now, I want you to be thinking of the odyssey
when I retell this story. A man plants a vineyard and builds a tower around it, and he puts
tenant farmers, vine dressers in charge, and he's gone for a long time. And the vine dressers
abuse the people who are the slaves who were sent to get the produce. And in the end, he says,
well, I have a beloved son and I'm going to send him, maybe they'll respect him. Well,
the vine dressers say, this is the heir. Let's kill him and let's divvy up the remains. And they
do so. So then, Mark's Jesus says, what will the owner of vineyard do? He will come and destroy
those vineyard dressers and give the vineyard to someone else. Now, tell me how that relates to
the odyssey. Right. I mean, this is the grand story arc of the odyssey, right? You've got Odysseus
on his journey, returning to Ithaca, Penelope's suitors, the whole situation. He's coming back.
And yes, he's angry because of how things have been mishandled. These individuals who are trying to,
the suitors, who are trying to exploit his absence. That's exactly right. And in fact,
there's a passage in Odyssey Book 16, where the suitors talk to each other and plan to kill
Telemachus outside the city so that no one's going to give them grief, is imitating. But
it's a metamorphosis. That is, it's a redaction of the Q story. So now the feast becomes part of a
mimesis. So you have both metamorphosis of a prototipus, and you also have mimesis of Homeric
tipus. And this is one reason why gospel textuality is so complex, because we haven't recognized the
sophistication of these authors in their using not only earlier gospels, but also Homeric epics.
And I find it so frustrating. And my, I imagine you do too, that this kind of this approach to the
gospels is so unwelcome, not only by the Christian church, where I can understand why they would be
defensive about the historicity of these stories and so on, but also by our colleagues in the field.
And it's a revolution in thinking that is so far simply a skirmish when it really needs to be a war,
it seems to me. Yeah, it feels like basically for lack of trying. Yeah, a lot of it. Yeah,
it's easier to ignore what we do than to engage it. Right. And are you against it? Right. And
there's also the politics of all of it and a whole lot of careers that have next to zero training
in classical antiquity, especially these canonical works. And so how else would this
have registered in the ancient psyche, except for to invoke all of that grand story that was
so central to the mindset and culture of that time period in these cities where Christianity
was born and raised? You and I both have been influenced by Tim Whitmarsh, who has written
extensively on Hellenism, your piece in the Roman Empire, but also on Mimesis. And he argues that
one of the primary ways that spin-off groups in the Roman Empire identified themselves was through
literature in crafting alternatives to the Hellenistic mapping of reality. And so they changed
the map for their own social identities. And that has been recognized by many New Testament scholars,
but I don't think it's been explored in terms of literary crafting of particular
monuments in Hellenism, especially Greek poetry. Yeah, no, I agree. And Tim Whitmarsh is brilliant
in all of that, his contributions. He was on my dissertation committee, as you know.
Top Cambridge classicist, and he's explored that extensively in the politics of imitation.
It's astonishing to me, it's almost like the New Testament is treated as if it were
born out of a vacuum in some way, a cultural literary textual vacuum.
Or a Jewish background. A Jewish background, maybe, and that somehow just took over like wildfire,
the entirety of the Mediterranean world. But it had no predecessors to it, it had no analogues, no
prior, it drew on none of that cultural world at all. And so in my view, and this is the wicked
tenants and this sort of thing, I don't see how you can read that any other way. I mean, what is
it if it's not that? And it feels to me like, I mean, this is my experience having gone through
my education. Now it's been a few years, but talking to other folks that were educated alongside me,
reading Homer was not part of the education. Until I got to you, until I got into classics
departments, until I got into outside of this field, reading Homer was not on the table for
anyone. And so no one talked about it. And so in my view, belies a lack of training, a lack of
exposure, a lack of rigor around fully contextualizing these texts within the classical Mediterranean,
Roman, Hellenistic context. It seems to me that there are two reasons for that. And I'd be interested
in whether you think this makes sense. One is, and I know you would agree with this, it jeopardizes
lots of careers. If all of a sudden you have to change your paradigm so fundamentally. But the
second is, Homeric Greek is not Koine Greek. That world of Homer, multiple gods and war and so on,
is very different from the New Testament. And so I think that there's a version to the difficulties
of integrating Homer, its language, its culture into New Testament interpretation.
Yeah, I think you're right. It's an archaic form of Greek. I'm a dialect that it's almost,
you have to take a separate class even to learn that kind of Greek. But I think what's lost is
just how enduring these words were. They weren't going away. This was every bit as popular and
famous as ever during the time of the first and second century, the Roman era. And so to act like
that those, I mean, this is what's going on, right? The New Testament is coming along, Christianity
is coming along and eclipsing a lot of that cultural capital. And it's drawing on it at the
same time. Using it, it's like Franz Boaz said something along the lines of the old myths were
being shattered into pieces and the new myths were being built from the fragments and this kind of
thing. And that's really all we've seen throughout all of human history. This isn't something new.
If you're an anthropologist, person of cultural studies, an expert in those fields,
this would be kind of the expected pattern. Exactly. I think that's a good place to end.
I think that's a good wrap up. The history of religions is one way of understanding that
mimesis is another. So one has to do with general cultural patterns. The other has to do with
literary restructuring. And I hope this is helpful to people that have listened to this
conversation. Thank you, Richard. Thank you, Dennis. If you've enjoyed this episode,
to subscribe to the YouTube channel, like the video, join YouTube's membership program to
become part of Mythfish and Family. Consider joining our Patreon where we're going to do monthly
Zoom meetings with those who are part of Mythfish and Family. We can use the support. So if you
would do those things, it's greatly appreciated. You can also one time donation in the description
of this video. Also, if you're interested in really educating yourself, we have academic courses
in really high quality. Be sure to check out our website, mvp-courses.com.
