Please consider becoming a patron of MythVision Podcasts, you'll get early access to every
video including this amazing one, and you can ask me personal questions, private message
me anything you'd like.
Professor James Taylor, I don't know how to phrase this question because there's so
much that could be said in this question, but that's not the best video content.
The best video content is when I say, Jesus, it seems anticipated a soon kingdom return
coming, whatever that meant, maybe you could tell us what that meant, Paul seems to think
we who remain in our alive it is coming, whatever that means, rapture, whatever, a transformation,
something had to happen, and it was supposed to break way into reality into this world
and transform everything.
I have, and I say this as a caveat, then I'll shut up, it's really good that I say this
though, I was a full preterist because I saw that Jesus said this was going to happen soon,
Paul said this was going to happen soon, the book of Revelation says, write these things
down which must soon take place, and at the end he says, these things I'm coming quickly,
blah, blah, blah, it's about to happen.
It had to happen because Jesus is God in the flesh, so I couldn't get my head around that
being a lie.
Did it fell, and if so, how did it fell?
Well, I come at it of course as a historian, and the first thing I would say, I teach
a course called Into the World as we know it, picking up on R.E.M., and also Leonard
Cohen's song, and the first thing I tell my students first day is we are beginning
the study of an idea in the West, apocalypticism I'm going to call it, messianic apocalyptic
eschatology would be the full description of it, and so far it has a 100% failure rate,
and one of the things I want you to know is that that's what we're studying, we're studying
when prophecy fails.
This is a course in when prophecy fails.
We're going to include Jesus in early Christianity, we're going to start 100 years before that
because we have this wonderful library of texts called the Dead Sea Scrolls that record
in detail the expectations, disappointment, and failure of an apocalyptic messianic eschatological
group before Jesus, so I'm calling the Essians, I prefer them just to call them the Dead Sea
Scroll group because Essian can mean something else in Josephus and other classical sources.
So I start with that in the course, I won't go into all that there, but if you want to
read the main thing, it's the Habakkuk Peshir, now Habakkuk is a book most people have never
read, it's in the Bible, it's in all Christian Bibles, whether they're Catholic or Protestant,
it's in the Jewish Bible, the Hebrew Bible, a prophet, it's not very long, it's just a
few chapters, three chapters, and in the book of Habakkuk the end is talked about and it
says at one point, if it tarries, wait for it, it will surely come.
That verse becomes the hallmark and then it goes on to say, and the righteous one who's
going to wait for it shall live by faith.
Now did you get that?
That is Paul's main verse, the just shall live by faith, it's in Romans and it's in Galatians,
but he translates it as, he who through faith is righteous shall live.
You see what he did?
This is the most interesting move in the New Testament.
If I'm talking about the apocalypse and I say, don't give up, if it tarries, wait for
it, the vision is for an appointed time, I'm quoting the whole thing, the vision is for
an appointed time, if it tarries, wait for it, it will surely come, the just will live
by faith, very clear meaning, I'm a just person, I believe in God, I don't care if it took
longer than I thought or even than God said, I'm going to live by faith, meaning I'm going
to believe still that it's coming, I'm not going to give up faith, okay?
That's clear.
Paul says, no, he who through faith is righteous shall live, meaning how do you get righteous
by works or faith?
He pulls it out of context, it's not even apocalyptic anymore, it's telling you Romans
3, all are sinned, you got to have the blood of Christ, you got to have the grace, you
got to have forgiveness, and that's how you get righteous, but if we go back to, that's
another subject, we can talk about that, but if we go back to the original apocalypticism,
Habakkuk is very important.
So what does the Comron group do with that, it's a brilliant thing that they do and how
long you can make it last, I don't know, but they, they don't become preterist, they don't
go, oh well actually it actually took place, but it was in a way we didn't expect, which
is the standard preterist move, like you thought it was literal, but it's literal, but not
like that literal the way you were thinking, they don't do that, they say all the time
has been prolonged, now as they say, we were right, they're talking about Daniel's prophecy
of 490 years, 70 weeks prophecy on Daniel 9, they say we were right, but now we passed
that, and it took them a while, they said the teacher has died and in 40 years all the
men of wickedness will be destroyed, they probably went, we think the back at Pescher
is maybe even the first century, so they've gone decades, decades, and now people are
going, I don't believe the teacher came back, I bet they had preterist then that said, well
he came back, he's in our hearts right now, or maybe they even had dates, you know, Joe
was, Russell, who started, you know, Joe was witnesses aren't Russell, but Russell said,
Christ is going to come in 1897 and then he went to 1914, and now they would say the
witnesses developed out of that, well he did come in 1914, but he came spiritually secretly,
so that's one move, they don't make that move in the text, what they say is all the times
have been prolonged for the mysteries of God are inexhaustible, meaning it's up to God,
we thought we had the timetable right, it's still right, God doesn't fail, if it terries
wait for it, it's tearing for you, it's not tearing for God, or maybe God decided to extend
the time and didn't tell you, so you still got a way of pushing it, that's what happens,
but in the New Testament until 70 AD or beyond, I would say even all the way up to Bar Kokpa,
people are still holding out hope, and you quoted some of the main obvious things, you
know, the time is at hand, the axis at the root of the tree, the night is far spent,
the day is at hand, on and on and on, but the main one is Paul telling people don't
even get married, people go, oh well celibacy, that's good, it's more spiritual, no, he said,
in view of the present distress, the time has come, those who have wives will be as those
who have none, the form of this world is passing away, he gives all of these warnings about even
social things that are happening, and then he says, we are alive and remain at the coming,
and so forth, well obviously Paul didn't live to 70, so I guess he was wrong, he thought he would,
I think that's what most praetor-sinterpreters would say, but he certainly thought he was gonna
live, and so what he's expecting though is the problem for saying it, well maybe he was just
wrong and it still happened symbolically in some other way, wait a minute, we did a segment,
what does he say is gonna happen at the Parasian, the dead in Christ will rise to meet the Lord
in the air, this doesn't sound very symbolic, the living will also rise, they will be transformed
into these glorious spirit beings, they will judge angels, they'll sit at the right hand of God,
now if you're into quote spiritualizing or allegorizing, you can apply anything to the most
literal statement, I'll meet you tomorrow at 3, well he didn't really mean meet me at 3, he meant
I'll meet you in spirit, I'll be thinking of you, but in normal, you know, language we have to
understand, and you can read Paul, he's talking about the dead, and he says there, you know,
you said something important there, you said this sounds very actual, literal, you weren't
referring to necessarily the dead, let me pause for a second and say this, because we talked about
spiritual resurrection, you are speaking literal because even the spiritual resurrected in some
way are experienced or seen and understood in some way, and if you're alive, which this is the
interesting thing about this to me is the Achilles hill, they're alive, they're going to be
transformed, he thinks at some point everyone's going to go on about their day, like a thief in
the night, and boom transformation is going to take place, and those who are righteous are going
to be transformed, and look what follows, remember the three stages, Christ was raised, well look,
Christ was raised, that means literally he was transformed in this being and now is at the
right hand of God, that's that symbolic, that happened, there, those who are our Christ that
is coming, this is a real event, and then the conquering of all principalities, powers and so
forth, then they're going to sit on thrones of judge angels, and there's going to be this new
creation, and he said, did you know in Romans 8, he talks about the new creation, he says the
creation itself, this is the clincher, will be delivered at that moment, he doesn't use the
term at that moment, but he says when the sons of God are revealed, when they're revealed in glory,
the glorified sons of God, the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to decay,
meaning death itself will be abolished, biological death, and there's a new creation now, a new
heavens and a new earth, God dwells, you can put in the book of Revelation if you want here,
and that's also Isaiah, that's a transformed existence that Paul believes in, no more night,
yeah, that didn't come, that didn't happen, so what as Norman Perrin used to say, what they,
you know it's funny, Perrin with the Preter is he never heard of him, but he said,
he always said in class, Norman Perrin at Chicago, what they, and I can't do as British
action, he was from Manchester, but it was, he was this sort of big guy with the machine,
what they most expected to happen never happened, the parisia of Jesus, what they least expected
did happen, the utter destruction of Jerusalem, and the scattering of God's people, so he actually
took it the way, and he's thinking of James and the early followers and so forth, now I don't
actually agree with the part of that and I'll tell you why, I think the followers of Jesus did
anticipate the destruction of Jerusalem based on Daniel 9, possibly, and as I opened the possibility
that Mark 13, Matthew 24, Luke 21, the so-called synoptic apocalypse, might reflect
something Jesus and his followers were expecting, because like the Comron group,
they felt that that was a den of thieves, and like Jeremiah declared, this temple's coming down,
and God will raise up a new house that'll be a house of prayer for old people,
how literally you need to bring down the Herodian stones, you know, later of course, Mark, Matthew,
Luke, make it very literal, especially Luke, says armies will come, they'll surround it,
they'll dismantle the whole city, and that did happen, but if you read Daniel 9 at the end of
the 70 weeks, which is a 490-year period, it says the prince who is to come will destroy the city
and the sanctuary, I mean how plain could you get, if you're an apocalyptic person and you think
you're at the end, and there's going to be a final evil ruler, an Antiochus-like figure,
and it's also in Daniel 11, he comes into the glorious land, pitches his tents and so forth.
Is it Nero that in Revelation, but Caligula could have played a role in it?
Caligula, it's almost like Caligula sent tremors through the whole Jewish-Christian world thinking,
oh my god, this could actually happen, he sits in the temple of God claiming to be God and so
forth, but Daniel 9 says he, this guy, the prince who is to come, is going to destroy the city and
the sanctuary, well, Jesus could read that, he says the time is at hand, when you say the time
is at hand, Paul says the appointed time has grown very short, you never use the phrase appointed
time of the end, unless you're talking about Daniel, Daniel uses I think six times and at the appointed
time of the end, the appointed time of the end over and over, so Paul says the appointed time is
growing very short, 1 Corinthians 7, so the appointed time is the clock ticking and what's
going to happen, it'll destroy the city and this heals, so I think it's possible that Jesus followers
anticipated that, but thought it would be replaced with the kingdom of God set up with all the
followers on earth as it is in heaven and I think Paul thought, I'm not talking about James, I think
they were more literal, you know, like it'll be a political social kingdom, I agree with
Paula Richardson and others on that, but Paul probably thought that it's much more cosmic,
like I imagine he thought the Paris, once the paracea takes place, I don't know if the earth just
kind of melts away or disappears or, it sounds kind of like 2 Peter where at the coming the earth
will melt with fervent heat, he says but we look for the new heavens and new earth, so that sounds
more like their developing Paul's idea, because what he says about stage three, what's what she
calls the telos, the telos, the fullness, is he has to destroy all rule, authority, and power,
that's kind of like an angel thing, you know, the levels of angels and what's called the Stoikeat,
the forces of evil, they have to all be conquered and then death itself has to be conquered and he
puts down every enemy and then the last enemy's death and then God is all things to all,
panta in pasan, which is just like the whole universe will be just God permeated, you know,
well clearly that hasn't happened, right, the ultimate, so I mean as I read it as a historian,
yeah prophecy failed, it's not, well let's put it this way, the famous book when prophecy fails,
you talking about Robert Carroll, the old school, no, it's that it's that 50s, it's that book about
the cult in the 50s, it's called when prophecy fails, but it was studying an apocalyptic group,
it became kind of famous as a as a refrain, but you could say well prophecy didn't fail,
our expectations and interpretations turned out not to be correct, so that's always the out,
but certainly there are no caveats given anywhere in these texts that we're talking about, I mean
they expect to live to see it and I guess you could say it came in a way they didn't expect
and that would be one avenue you could go, but when you begin to list all the things they expect,
it's really hard to say those are now behind us, I don't think death has been destroyed,
Satan certainly, he said well he's sort of bound, yeah like in the Holocaust, I mean what are you
talking about, it's a very odd view of history, I just, I mean again I'm not trying to harmonize
or interpret, I'm trying to just read these texts as historical texts and they're no different to me
than what happened in the fourth century, what happened in the middle ages, I specialize in
apocalyptic groups, not just ancient, my field is probably apocalypticism in the west from Qumran
to Waco, that would be, and I don't need to stop at Waco because people have kept going in the last
25 years with plenty more, I definitely want to record with you about Waco at some point,
yeah because now we got the Muslims are going to be the Antichrist, forget Europe, it used to be
Hal Lindsey, yeah and I know that Preteris can just say oh well that's all feudal and there's
none of that's right and I would agree, it's all feudal none of that's right, but the reason it
isn't right is you're taking Daniel 11 and you're trying to historicize it into something that it
never referred to, I mean to these people the end of the age is as real as Antiochus Epiphanes
entering the temple, defiling it and everything that follows and then the resurrection follows
in chapter 12 of Daniel, right, so whenever 11's over, you know and it isn't over because it never
happened, the ending of 11 has never happened, right, then there's the resurrection, now is it
still going to happen after? I don't know what happens in the Synoptic Gospels, I hate to cut you
off, this is this is the heart of the issue with the Preterist and most people on the internet,
I don't think they realize this is the last, if there's a Jingatower, there's one block left,
you can pull out in my opinion eschatologically, the most sophisticated position within Christendom
that tries to still remain Christian is this Preterist movement, they're trying to be faithful
to the words of Paul and Jesus' time statements, they're trying to say they knew it was going to
happen soon, the problem is- And they were right, they think they're right.
And Preterists are right and I want to give them the credit for that because I was there,
I was that, but in order to be right all the way, you have to make words mean things they may not
mean, death doesn't mean death and tears doesn't mean tears and you know whatever it might be,
sees don't mean sees anymore in book revelation or if you're looking in other areas, the resurrection
of the dead, the transformation, all this stuff doesn't mean what it means. So the great white
throne judgment as it's called in Revelation 20 has already happened. Already happened,
everything, everything, there's not a single- All the dead, small and great.
Small and great that mattered, because here's the thing that a lot of them will take the context
and focus it in on Israelites or try to make it work into- Yeah, I just, I know about some of that,
actually I was, have you heard of Alexander Campbell and Barton Stone, American Restoration
movement? That's a Preterist movement, churches of Christ, Christian church,
Campbell, they call it Campbellites in the 1800s. So in the 1830s, Campbell started that,
wanted to restore New Testament Christianity and he did argue the classic Preterist position,
not the more modified one, that the millennium is the church and the church is the kingdom and
Augustine even argued this and he debated premillennials and other prophecy types of his day,
like the Millerites and just toasted them and roasted them. And he also claimed just about
everything happened in 70. But like N.T. Wright, as I understand and other theologians that tended
lean that way a little bit, you know, like a lot happened in 70 and you had this new covenant and
so forth. They still held out for the final events, you know, like it's really hard to read
1 Thessalians 4 and 1 Corinthians 15 and Romans 8 and all that. It's like, yeah, we're in that right
now. Or that already happened. Like, yeah, like creation is not decaying anymore. He's talking
about the creation itself, Genesis 1. Yeah, there's no decay. Those leaves falling aren't really
decaying. Right. They're spiritually still, you know, and I don't want to make fun of people's
ideas. But to me, it's pretty simple and I'm not going to try to save Jesus or anybody else.
Of course, they believe that because they're reading the book of Daniel, you can't stretch
Daniel out for millennia if you just open it up and read it. You can't stretch Daniel to 70
unless you start Daniel at some way later point. Yeah, I can't even. So to me, it just
I think Switzer was, I dedicate my book, The Jesus Dynasty, I didn't know this until I
written the book and I thought, oh, my book's going to come out in 2006. And you don't always
know. I was with a major publisher, Sammy and Schuster. And you don't always know the date
because, you know, it's like, well, it could be fall or spring, like 2006. Whoa, wait, 1906.
Switzer published what we call The Quest for the Historical Jesus. In German, it was called
von Reimars, who's the first quester to rate a where he stops. And so what Switzer, so I put
in, I dedicate Albert Switzer 100 years after. So here I am writing The Jesus Dynasty 100 years
after. And I could not stand in his shadow. Albert Switzer, in my opinion, is the greatest New
Testament scholar who ever lived. He writes on Jesus and Paul. His book on Paul is the best book
on Paul ever written. And notice, I wrote a book on Paul. It's called The Mysticism of Paul the
Apostle. Unbelievable. Didn't even know about the Dead Sea Scrolls and all this stuff we know now.
Boy, if he had known. So what does he do? It's absolutely brilliant.
He says, and Dom Crossen does this too, John Dominic Crossen and others. These are interim
ethics. They're interim ethics. And yes, they're radical as hell, and they will get you killed.
So Daniel Berrigan is going to pour blood on a missile cone to stop the Vietnam War and get
arrested and thrown in jail, for God knows how many years. You know, the priest. I mean,
and you're going to do acts of, you know, of resistance and you will get, you'll go to the
cross for it. These are interim ethics. It doesn't mean the end of the cosmos is coming.
It means that you throw yourself, as Switzer put it, on the wheel of history to try to move it
forward in God's way. Bring the kingdom. What is the kingdom? The will of God being done on
earth as it is in heaven. So you throw yourself, and this is the last page of Switzer. Got it.
Almost makes me cry to think of it. He said, Jesus threw himself on the wheel of history,
and it lunged back and crushed him. And he basically says, are you willing to take up
those interim ethics? He's a pacifist. And you know, you can argue, yeah, but if somebody broke
in my house and they're going to kill, you know, look, I'm sure he could address that. But the
point is, I say to you, love your enemies, turn the other cheek. So you can't run a world like that.
He says, no, but you can destroy a world like that, as you can begin to change. So he called
them interim ethics, meaning in the time between wickedness and righteousness, we're called upon
to live the radical life for the kingdom. Lots of liberal, you know, more liberal preachers,
I guess you call them or more, you know, in some of the mainstream churches, they would say that
following Jesus means finding your cross. Is it wearing yourself out for the poor? Is it speaking
out for racial injustice? Is it getting yourself clobbered for this or that? You know, that's
following Jesus. And so there's a way to, like you don't just say, oh, well, it didn't happen. So
forget everything. Right. Because Jesus had a program of dismantling Rome. Dom's, this Dom is
John Dominic Crossen, is this wonderful book about, I forget the title, we could look it up, but
it's one of his latest books. And it's basically about how the message of Jesus
destroyed the Roman Empire and would destroy the evil empires today if we followed it. I mean,
it's really powerful. It's interesting that you say that. And there's more to it than just apocalyptic
system, even though there's a major point that needs to be brought up about that. So there's so
much more we could be said about the kingdom and just different things that seem predictive that may
not have come to pass. And maybe future episodes, we could do that. But I've been getting it across
the board. Scholarship seems to be in historians all are saying this. Do you have a minute or two
on this? I've got three minutes. Okay, let me say this. Here are the strategies for, I developed
this in my course, the strategies for coping with the failure of prophecy, meaning the failure of your
interpretation or expectations. One is to reset your date. Just like William Miller did it. Oh,
well, 1883, it's 1884. Usually it's more radical than that. You go like, oh, we made a wrong calculation
on the creation date or something. Now, you can do that a little bit. It's real hard to do much
more than like 20 years, 30 years, 40 years. So that's not a really good one. The second one is to,
this order doesn't matter, just say, forget that I was crazy, I was wrong. I'm not even going to
think about that anymore. I've heard people say, don't read the book of Revelation, I'll make you
crazy. Like all that stuff, beasts and horns and none of that ever happened. So you just kind of like
put it on the back burner. I'm not going to think about it. So it'd be like marginalize it. Just,
just, I don't want to hear about Daniel and Revelation. There's all this other stuff.
And a third reason, third strategy, is you spiritualize it and you start claiming that it
did happen and it didn't fail. So those are the three strategies. And the fourth is the one I take.
You just recognize that every apocalyptic movement in the West throughout, starting with Qumran is
our earliest that we know of, a real apocalyptic movement. They've all failed. And it's not a
good track record to put your bets on that the world is going to end in some claticlysmic way
with something coming out of the sky and all this stuff. Most likely it'll end the way science tells
us. Look at the sun, look at the solar system. And for all of us, it'll end when we die.
Thank you.
