Ladies and gentlemen, we're live here at Mithish and podcast.
This is a live stream.
I'm your host, Eric Lambert, and we're going to talk about the wife of God, the wife of
Yahweh.
And of course, you have various deities in the pantheon of God's and the Canaanites
and such.
But is it true that God divorced his wife, Asherah?
Is it true the ancient Israelites worshipped a goddess along with God?
And that there were two deities, not just one.
Today I have a special guest again.
The last video we did with him is quite shocking.
It literally sent sound waves to the internet world and he got a lot of attention.
We got a lot of attention with that video.
In this one, I hope the same happens.
So no wasting time today.
I have Dr. Matthew Munger joining us.
Welcome back to Mithvision, my friend.
Hey, thanks for having me, Derek.
Thank you.
Thank you, Matthew.
If you don't mind me calling Matt, short.
Call me whatever you want.
Okay, okay.
Munger.
Munger.
That's good.
What's your background?
Why are you someone who could speak on this topic?
Yeah.
So, I mean, the reason I can speak on this topic is because I've studied the Bible for
20 years and this is part of my background.
And so, I mean, I have my bachelor's degree in theology and biblical studies.
My master's in theology and Old Testament studies.
I have a BA in linguistics and MA in Semitic Philology and a PhD in the Dead Sea Scrolls.
So I've worked my way through the Old Testament world, the ancient Semitic world, and that's
the language and cultures that I've studied the most.
And that's been the interest that I've had, really, is getting to know these things.
And so, the reason to this topic, Ashura and Yahweh, is just that I've been working
on a video on a thing from my own channel where I'm looking at the Deuteronomistic history
and the way the histories were written backwards, were written from the end of Israelite history
or Judean history and looking backwards and asking what went wrong.
And then one of those topics is that I've had to go back into and work through is the
question of who is Ashura?
And so, that kind of got me going.
And so, when you mentioned that you wanted to do something on this, it was perfect timing
because I've been digging into this a little more recently.
Yeah.
Shameless plug.
I did not know that you've launched three additional videos to the first one, which went
quite...
Or it's this one, sorry.
Yeah.
The first one.
Yeah.
This shows obvious intertextuality between Genesis 1 and Enuma, Elish.
And I'm actually working on a series, Joshua Bowen actually scripted for me on this very
subject.
So, we're...
There's like, we're collabing here in a way.
So I hope we can, by the end of this, I'm going to refresh this.
And I hope we see the growth, you, the witnesses, those who are sitting here, that are going
to share the gospel of myth, vision, and Bible monger can actually help contribute in growing
the subscriber count.
If you have not subscribed to Dr. Matthew Munger, please do so during this stream.
He also has a website, Biblemonger.com.
Is this a blog site?
Well, yeah.
I mean, when I get time, I'm going to write more on it.
Right now, I'm using it to post resources and links and stuff connected to the videos
that I'm doing on my YouTube channel.
And then I'll be adding texts and blogs and more discussions of the stuff after a while.
But just kind of, just as a supplement to what I'm putting out on the YouTube thing
and kind of trying to collect so that people can find the text and see what kind of stuff
I'm actually putting into it.
So it's not just videos floating around on the internet, but I am doing serious work
behind it.
And I want people to be able to check out the text for themselves, because that's kind
of my thing.
I want people to be able to read the text themselves, and I want to look at texts.
I want to go into details about the texts while we're looking at them.
And that is something that, yeah, I like to just make transparent of what background
you can get into.
That's what I really loved about your enuma, a leash video, like you're wanting people
to see, actually see with their own eyes what's going on.
And that helps teach, that helps actually solidify the points you're making.
So quick shameless plug for us, because we really want to keep growing and bringing you
this information.
We have the Patreon, you can join the family, go down here, harass me, private message me,
I am a busy guy, but I'm doing so much material, I could use your help.
So please help us out.
We also have the MVP courses.com, which has several academics and we're growing.
This one right here is not shining bright, because I haven't spent a lot of time like
getting people's attention to it.
It's an 18 lecture course with Dennis R. McDonald.
And of course, I was actually privileged to be able to join him in that course.
And it's beautiful.
So please sign up for our courses, educate yourself to know what the latest, greatest
and what these scholars say in these topics.
Anyway, all 4K, high quality, we take you through the material.
Now back to Dr. Munger.
Dr. Munger, what's going on with Ashura?
Is it true that Yahweh had a wife named Ashura?
So you know, if we start from the end, it was funny, I got a text from my brother this
morning who lives in Colorado and I saw, I don't know, it might have been last night
his time, but he texted me, he said, Yahweh's divorce or sacred divorce or something.
And I was like, wait, divorce, I didn't say anything about divorce.
And so I was like, where'd you get that?
And he's like, oh, your buddy Derek wrote it on Facebook.
And I was like, okay.
So, but I guess it's something that does make sense to question is when we think of Yahweh
as a bachelor, I guess, as a single dude, how could we imagine him as having had a wife?
And so we must have just thought or must have just assumed that he went through a divorce
process at some point, which actually is a really, really nice illustration of what
I think is going on, because when we talk about whether or not Yahweh had a wife, we're
just using human terms to try to explain the divine, right?
Because obviously, like we were not saying that the divine had a wedding ceremony and
married another goddess or something like that.
Like we're talking about trying to picture how does the divine world function?
And so, yeah.
So then the answer to your question is there is no reason to doubt that ancient Israelites
conceived of Yahweh as having a consort or wife or partner.
And this is, this we can say from a variety of different angles.
And so I think like if you want, we can just walk through some of the steps that I would
walk through to get to that conclusion.
You want me to share the screen?
So yeah, you can or I, yeah, share the screen and we'll jump to the slides.
I put it in there.
Excellent.
Yeah.
So if we, what we can do is start by thinking about this the way I think an apologist would
actually meet it.
So one of the reasons why someone would say no, Yahweh is alone and he's the only God
and he's the only one exists is because the, in the Bible, in the biblical texts, we have
a lot of, let's see, a lot of, a lot of polemic against the idea of other gods having any
power or the existence of other gods.
And so I wanted to start by looking at this text from Deuteronomy seven, which is kind
of the, the beginning of, of the, of the story of what happens to Israel.
So in Deuteronomy is, is written in a way that kind of says this is what it's going
to be like when you get into the land and then kind of continues through Joshua and
judges and Samuel and Kings of what happens when they do go in.
And so this kind of programmatic speech that, that Moses gives in Deuteronomy seven says,
it says a lot.
I just want to read through its, it's a quite a, quite a long text, but hang, hang with
me here.
So when the Lord your God brings you into the land that you are about to enter and occupy
and he clears away the nations before you, the Hittites and the Gurgishites and the Amorites
and the Canaanites and the Parasites and the Hivites and the Jebusites, seven nations
mightier and more numerous than you.
And when the Lord your God gives them over to you and you defeat them and then you utterly
destroy them, make no covenant with them and show no mercy, do not intermarry with them
giving your sons and daughters to their sons and for taking daughters for your sons.
Or I might miss that up, but for what, for that would turn away your children from following
me to serve other gods.
The anger of the Lord would be kindled against you and he would destroy you quickly.
But this is how you must deal with them.
Break down their altars, smash their pillars, hew down their sacred poles and burn their
idols with fire for you are a people holy to the Lord your God.
The Lord your God has chosen you out of all the peoples on the earth to be his people,
his treasured possession.
So that's Deuteronomy chapter seven.
Now what we notice in this text is that it's very clear that there are a lot of conditions
that are put in place here so that God will take care of his chosen people, his treasured
people.
They have to kill all the people, they have to not intermarry with them, they have to
burn down all their idols and all this kind of stuff and then and only then will God actually
take care of his chosen people is what the text says.
And so one of the things that we are pretty clear about in working with text from a historical
perspective is that these are written after the fact.
So this isn't something that's written the day that, you know, this isn't an actual speech
Moses gives at the border of the land.
These are words that are written down hundreds of years after that should have happened and
they are looking backwards on what did happen.
And so this is part of a much longer history that ends with the destruction of Israel and
Judah.
And so can I just like I like emphasizing and I hope our audience can appreciate this
I understand that it's interrupting the flow of you discussing this.
I want this to be interactive, of course, as much as possible, because what you're
suggesting just for dum-dums like me is that the authors who are writing this, they're
explaining why bad things are happening to their people to put it in dum-dum terms.
And they're finding precedence in the worship and the religious practices that are not under
their kosher rule of what is supposed to be practiced.
So why did God do what he did to the northern kingdom?
Aha.
Look at these asherah poles.
Look at all these other divinities.
Look at what you guys are doing that is an hour specific elitist perception of religion.
Or why did Babylon kick our ass in the south?
Oh, this is why.
And so you're simply saying looking backwards, they're trying to blame game.
Why all the bad stuff is happening to us?
Yes, exactly.
OK.
And that's the and I mean, and this is the this is one of those things that I think
it's it's it's super logical, the first step of the discussion, like this was written
after the fact.
And and when we look at the books of everything from Deuteronomy up to the end of Kings, they
are related in historical terms are written from the perspective of after the fall of
Israel and Judah.
And so we have this this basic understanding that things are written about afterward.
And then historians will always talk about what then is the bias or perspective or or
focus of that history writing, right?
So this is this is historiography.
We're asking what is the motivation or the or the perspective of this history?
And for the for the Deuteronomistic history and for Deuteronomy, the focus is that, well,
they there's two sides of the worship of God that they got wrong.
The one thing is that they didn't get rid of all the other gods and their worship places
of worship and shrines and poles and all that.
And the second was that God should only have been worshipped in one place.
And that is the temple in Jerusalem.
And so what we see when we when we look at it like that is that all of history then is
interpreted through the lens of did we make the land free from all other gods and only
worship God in Jerusalem?
Or did we muck it up?
And and that's like it's it when we then start reading texts from that perspective, it makes
a lot more sense because instead of saying, well, who were all these people that they were that
they murdered, it's instead saying, look, those are all the people that they that they were
surrounded by that they lived in contact with.
And and if they'd only killed everybody and cleaned the whole place out, they wouldn't have
been tempted to do other stuff.
But it doesn't mean that they went into it saying, we're going to just viciously murder
absolutely everyone around us.
Right.
Right.
So when we get that perspective, then we can look at this text.
And one of the things that the that they're told that they have to do is hewn down the
sacred poles and the word that is here, that meat that's translated in the NRSV as sacred
poles is asheras.
So this means literally this is hewn down their asheras and burn their idols with fire.
And so this this word that's used here for for sacred poles is literally the word
ashera and it is used about 40 times in the Bible.
And so when we look at the way the word ashera is used, it's used often to mean a pole or
something stuck in the ground.
And and the reason we we know this is because the language that's used with it is to cut
down or to set up or to yeah, to hue or chop down things like that.
And so the the language makes it very clear that these are these are like poles or trees
or something like that.
But in several cases, it's also clear that it means a divinity.
And so when we when we look at a text like Second Kings 21, we read about the King
Manasseh, who it says literally that he the carved image of ashera that he had made he
set in the house which the Lord had said to David and his son Solomon in this house in
Jerusalem, which I have chosen out of all the tribes of Israel, I will put my name forever.
That's the temple.
So in this text in Second Kings, we have we have an actual description of a king of Judah,
who makes an image of ashera and puts her in the temple beside Yahweh.
I mean, it's it's it's right there.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So it's it doesn't get much planer than that.
And so I think like for me, that is that's kind of a baseline.
When we want to talk about how was ancient Israelite and Judahite religion?
What were they doing?
And that is the very clear thing is that they were worshiping ashera beside Yahweh.
And there were a few cases where the kings of Israel or Judah don't worship ashera and cut
down the ashera poles and and get rid of the the the Baal temples and things like that.
But but for the most part, the kings are described as having partaken in this,
not having eradicated it.
And so that gives us kind of a broad understanding of what is going on in that that the Bible is
describing. And so then you can you can look at it from from that perspective of, okay,
we have this deity there.
What what is her purpose?
What does she do?
Okay, and then we can we can broaden that to look in the cultures around us and see is
ashera a known person. Okay.
And taking the the closest step would be to look at at Canaan or Canaanite religions.
And and what do you know at at Ugarit at in the Ugaritic texts, we find a divinity,
a goddess by the name of Athirat.
And the the the like the thirat is cognate with the the sheen that's in ashera.
So it's it's the same name.
It's just different lines of development in the in the Semitic languages.
So ashera and Athirat are the same name.
And in the Ugaritic pantheon, ashera or Athirat is the wife consort of El, the main god.
Okay, so we we've got that there.
This is this is using what we know about Deuteronomy 32.
Um, the pantheon.
El is Yahweh's at least he's the chief deity in which I think Yahweh ends up merging with,
but eventually, of course, overthrows in a sense.
We there's no narrative, of course, to describe this of what's happening,
but we do know that he becomes the chief among them.
That would technically mean if ashera is the wife of El, which is his dad,
then he ends up in some type of religious setting married to his dad's wife.
Well, you heard it here first.
So but no, you you did exactly the right thing.
This is why I like going on your channel, Derek, because you anticipate exactly the next thing
that I'm going to say.
And so you spoil it though.
No, no, no, it's so good.
It's so good because it actually seems like it makes me feel like I have logical arguments
because when you say Deuteronomy 32, that's exactly where I was headed.
And then we'll go from there because when we go to Deuteronomy 32, we see that.
Okay, El is is seems to be pictured exactly as the head of the pantheon that divvies up things
to the other gods, right?
And Yahweh is one of these.
But that Deuteronomy 32 is actually an anomaly, right in the in the Hebrew Bible,
because it doesn't erase the the hierarchy of the pantheon and leave leave Yahweh at the top,
because Yahweh is supposed to be at the top of the pantheon in the Hebrew Bible.
And and also Yahweh is El in the Hebrew Bible.
And so we have we have a number of texts where El is used to describe the God of Israel.
And so it's it's not like, I mean, a lot of the names like so Elohim is similar,
but it's not using El, but but God is also called El, just El as God, and he's called El Elion
and El Shaddai and all these different derivations, but that have the name El in them.
So in a way, like you said, Yahweh takes over the role of El and his name in the Hebrew Bible.
And so when we think about what then are ancient Israelites imagining when they're
when they're dealing with their deity, as compared to this other guy El, and they're thinking our
God is El, we just call him Yahweh, right? And El's consort, wife, woman, whatever counterpart
is Asherah. And so there is no there's no great leap, like we don't even have I think we can we
can laugh a little bit about the Deuteronomy 32, and then the maybe it's daddy's wife. But I think
it's more of a power move to just say like, no, he's like, for Yahweh, it takes over and he becomes
El. And of course, then it's his wife, like it's or it's his consort, like, they belong together.
This is the this is the power couple. And so you're, you're like, he's in charge. And so,
of course, then it makes sense that his consort is the chief consort from the other the other
pantheons. So there's being funny, just being funny. Remember when Paul was like telling people
to give that guy over to Satan for sleeping with his mother-in-law? Yeah. Whoops. You should say
to your God, no, just go ahead in the mirror. No, but that's right. Paul says you can look in
in the mirror is so foggy. He can't see anything. So exactly. But yeah, so when we I mean, so what
do I have next? Okay, so then we we ask ourselves then and yeah, I'm gonna I'm gonna save that for
a second. I'm just gonna introduce it first. But the so what we what we see then is that
in the religious world of the of ancient Canaan, ancient Israel, there is a conception that
is entirely plausible and possible. That's reflected in the Bible and reflected in other texts
that the divinities had consorts and that ashura is is is most likely the one connected to Yahweh.
And we have this confirmed in archaeological evidence. So this is now thank you. This is
an image of an inscription that is found in Quebec, which is I mean, it's a site in Northern
Sinai where this this so it's an upside down hand is what we see. I think and it's so it's not a cow.
It's not a that's how my kids used to try and draw cows, I think. But the I think it's a I think
it's an upside down hand. And so maybe it's the hand of God or something. I don't know. But
on this text, it says blessed be your yahoo to Yahweh now from his enemies to ashura deliver him.
So it's it's basically it's this is a this is a text that sets Yahweh and ashura in the same
on the same side of things, right? So you're asking for a blessing to Yahweh and to to ashura
be delivered. And by the way, this is from William Deaver's book, Did God Have a Wife? So that's
yeah, there it is. That is this is I mean, that's the that was the game changer book
in scholarship that really laid out everything and made it made it really clear what's what's
going on. Yeah. And so then let's look at let's look at the next text. So there's another text
then from for also from the Sinai. And this time from Contillate, which is just another site.
But this is from a pot or a jug they're called pathos in in in the archaeological lingo. And
in here, we have some some drawings or some etchings, and then you have some text. And on this
one, it says Yahweh of Timon and ashura. And so the question here is then what is what does this mean?
The it's a bit of a complicated linguistic argument, because on the end of ashura,
there is a letter that normally when it's on the end of a word functions as a as a pronoun.
So it would mean like his or something like that. But normally the names of people and gods don't
take pronouns on the ends of them. And so there's there's still a debate in scholarship about whether
this should be read Yahweh of Timon and his ashura, or Yahweh of Timon and ashura. So there's
I think the the biggest, you know, the biggest challenge with reading this text isn't whether
or not Yahweh and ashura belong together, but whether or not the linguistic details fall into
place. So from, I mean, we have one more example that's exactly the same, basically, also from
the same place in another pit, there's another jar that says I blessed, I blessed to or by Yahweh
of Samaria is probably what it says, and ashura or his ashura. And this I borrowed the drawing from
Dan McClellan's book, he's coming on tomorrow, I think, so you can ask him about it. But and
hopefully he'll forgive me for borrowing his image from his book. But he's a he's a good he's a
good artist. This this is his actual hand drawing of the thing. And this one is really cool, because
here you have some images and and you definitely have you mean you have one guy that definitely is
a man, the man's man in the front with his with his junk hanging down. And I was gonna ask you about.
Yeah, and that's, I mean, this is one of those images of the divine that is definitely
is definitely making a statement, right? So the here's a here's the God figure with his
with his full package. And and then so and likely then we have a female image in the very back so
the back one that's sitting. And and so again, we were faced with this inscription that is
that is basically putting Yahweh and ashura together on the on the in the text and probably
in the image now who the other fellow is is a little is a little uncertain we but you know divine
relationships aren't always easy to make sense of. But and this might not be an image of Yahweh
and ashura at all. It might just be the three guys that were hanging out at the at the well or
whatever. So I don't want to put too much into it. I mean, there's there's lots of discussion about
what things some people look to see Egyptian images and God divine images from Egypt in it.
And you know, I'm I'm not an expert in the Egyptian divine images. So I can't really say
but diva diva made an interesting connection between the what what looks like a woman on the
right seated on a chair that looks like a like a lion slash feathered type figure. And of course
this recreation, it's more difficult to see. But that was his connection to I think the previous
image you had up that there was some correlation between the goddess figure. Um, yeah, on that
throw. Is it on that? Yeah. I think so on the on the left there. I think so. I could be wrong,
but there's a couple different images he has. Yeah, and you can look at at diva's book. I mean,
anybody who wants to really get into it, he goes through all the archaeological evidence, all of
the all of the images, all of the inscriptions, all of the stuff and makes a really clear case
for for seeing that this is astra and this is Yahweh in that are talked about in the text. And
it's not not an anomaly that they're mentioned and mentioned together, but that this is this is
just what people normal people that were practicing the religion of ancient Israel. This is things
that would have been perfectly within their conception of their God or in gods. And and
that's one of those things that I think is, you know, is lacking when you only use the biblical
text as a as a basis, because you would you would end up kind of thinking, Oh, well, well, God hates
all other gods. Therefore, there were no other gods. But when you look at it from the perspective
of the the folk religion or people's religion, what we're normal people doing, then the the
images are are actually quite the opposite. Because what we see is that all throughout
Israelite history, all throughout Judean history, that the thing that's mentioned most in the history
histories is that they worshiped other gods, and that made Yahweh mad. So it's it doesn't
make sense from the perspective of history, to say that Israelites had a God that that they
that just didn't, you know, allow anything else. It's much more logical that they were, you know,
they were there worshiping all these other gods. Hmm. Hmm. And then, if you will give me, if you
let me share my screen instead, okay, are we done with the images here? Yeah, done. I think so.
Let me yeah, that was the last one. So, okay, then I would just show I would want to show
and I was actually going to pop up like just to show the like on Google, I looked up Yahweh's
standing stones and stuff. And you notice there's two Damoclon, of course, does some drawing,
there's two stones. What the heck, we know the stones represent a deity. So, you know,
it doesn't prove who this deity is, but why are there two standing stones? Anywho.
No, but I just I just jumped, jumped two links and you're in the private chat. So you could
could just pop those up because then we'll get the so what I also want to talk about this last
kind of step in making sense of this is is again in the in the area of archaeology and and what's
actually going on in Israel. Yeah, it's perfect in the in Israelite religion. So these two, yeah,
those two things there are they are figurines that are found in in Israel in Judean sites that are
that are images of women. So this first one is it's it's held at the Israel Museum in Jerusalem
and it's supposed to come from the from the 13th century. So it's very early and it has an image
of a woman who is it's considered a fertility idol or or a figurine, right? And so it you can see
the two twins that she has inside her it's around the you know kind of the breast area there's there's
two babies there's twins and they are they you know it's assumed that then this is some kind of an
amulet or or figurine that would be used to to help ensure fertility and stuff like that. And
that this is this is a pretty common thing found in in many different cultures throughout the
world that you have fertility amulets or figures or things like that. But then if you go to the other
one which is which is a little bit later this is a this is a 700 700 around 700 so probably
eighth century ninth eighth century and these poles or these sorry these figurines have
have a have a very widespread find area they are found so the numbers are are a little hard to
figure out for me because I'm not into the all the archaeology stuff but but the the lowest source
I've found says that there are 830 of these found in Judean sites. William Naver says it's at least
1,000 but maybe 3,000 and so they are all over the place found in contexts connected to homes
they're found some of them are found kind of like in dumps or around walls but also inside
Judean homes and these are some of them are obviously handmade but also there are other
ones that are mass produced that are molded and so they and what we see I mean this is a figurine
of a woman with large breasts that is I kind of that she's supporting and and this is this is
considered to be a like the type of Judean fertility amulet or or figurine that would be
kept by people that are you know hoping to achieve better fertility right that they will
survive the pregnancy that their child will survive and all that kind of stuff that their
children will grow up to be healthy and the the thing about this is that they are so widespread
that they are they're obviously an integral part of ancient Judean or Israelite religion
these are the things that people are going to when they're trying to make sure that things
happen in their favor and and so we can we can discuss back and forth whether or not
having a figure means that you're worshiping that deity or whether or not it's actually a symbol
of ashura but ashura was a fertility goddess she was the named goddess where there were images
in pillars in in Judah and in Israel and then it it makes perfect sense that this would also be
a the the motivation for the pillars and they're a connection with the divinity
because you I mean you wouldn't you wouldn't have something sitting around that you didn't
think had some way of giving you the the thing you wanted so you have a this kind of pillar
an amulet that's going to help you be fertile or help your children survive
then you're going to cross this all the time to try and ward off or to have luck or whatever
exactly and you don't think that Jesus is that cross or that God is in that cross but you think
that the symbolic nature of it connects to some power that will that will help right right and
they represent it does represent the deity in a sense that the God or his angels are
guarding you or whatever the particular yeah exactly and so these things are so widespread
and and so unknown for the majority of people like that these this is what this is what ancient
israelite religion was ancient judeite religion was they were worshiping the the deities and
and sure they were they were certainly worshiping Yahweh as well but they had these little things
these little figurines in their homes that were to bring them fertility and we know at the exact
same time that images of ashura were being erected in the temple beside Yahweh and so for me it's
it's uh i mean it seems you know there's there's nothing that's ever cut and dry i think in this
in this world of textual and historical archaeological stuff but that's for me as
close as you can get like we we have a very clear a very clear understanding of the way people were
imagining their god and their god wasn't a lonely old bachelor up on a throne just kind of passively
watching to see what might happen with his young ins like he was he was there their powerful warrior
god who would challenge the prophets of bao and the prophets of ashura and on the on mount carmel
when elijah went there and god would would pick fights and was you know he was involved in stuff
and that's how they pictured him and he had a wife and so then like then the question that you asked
is like well did they get a divorce i guess that is the really good question like how do we end up
without without ashura because wouldn't things be a lot easier then like because then it could be
ashura and god made made savior and sent him i don't know there's all sorts of questions and in
fact before we get to something where you and me are going to go further i just shamelessly shamelessly
want to plug you again while we have 402 people here like this so that everyone can see god's wife
number one and the algorithm says hey this video is amazing i'm glad let's send more people because
people get recognized and then they come and check us out but also also subscribe to dr
matthew monger's youtube channel while you're here he's got some amazing stuff we are at the end of
the stream you got to stay tuned 4.57k subscribers right now i want to blow those numbers out of
the water i want to try and get to five let's see if we can make the magic happen so um maybe maybe
you impress me and blow me away and go oh wow so dr monger this isn't more this is not what academics
do usually the conversation i'm bringing this into academics do what you just did but this is
more internet youtubey world stuff that scholars sometimes engage with some scholars don't want
to you've gone on record last time saying that you are no longer a believer in christianity
this what i'm looking at what you just described today makes me go wow this looks like the same
typical the typical isosinoceros or whatever pantheon and canan you name it just very mundane human
religion development this god is no different at this time in history eventually we know he becomes
the soul solidarity deity no one beside him no one compared to him um at least michael hyzer within
evangelical circles is saying hey there's a pantheon here quit ignoring it and no that's not the
trinity in genesis one etc etc um and you got to give him kudos where he's right right we got to
encourage good critical thinking and what's going on but does this in some way make a huge impact on
this god in your view like being the real god that later philosophers want to say is this god
yeah so so for me i think one of the one of the biggest things about this kind of thing is just
that it um it flies so in the face of the narrative that is constructed in in at least the kind of
christianity i was brought up with that that says that you know there is that one god from eternity
and then everything he said in the bible is true and then he sends jesus and like it it just it
just it just flies in the face of that to be to be able to pick it apart and see that there is like
that that it's actually probably or not probably i'll say actually assuredly from from a historical
perspective makes more sense that that israelite religion was similar to those around them
and that their gods behaved in the same ways as those around them and that what we see is a
a development a later thing that goes towards this monotheism which is interesting and and it's
i i have no i'm not trying to deny that the that the bible moves towards monotheism i'm not
trying to deny that that's an interesting part of israelite history or judae history whatever
we want to say judaean but my like when we leave out the fact that this is this is uh an ancient
near eastern text that is formed within that context and that the people thought and behaved
in completely different ways than a christian interpretation of the text allows them to
it's uh it changes everything and and so it's just like it's it's so for me like like seriously
like william diva's methodology of talking about like because like his uh his subtitle there is
archaeology and folk religion in ancient israel and it's this idea of folk religion that and so
reading william diva's book um years ago really made a big difference on me or made a big impact on
me um because of of the fact that it made me question what is uh what is prescribed post
you know postfactum uh commandments that we find in the biblical text that's theologically
determined and what would be evidence of the actual practices of normal people
if i may to bring up the modern example i said before we hit record or went live
that is look at Mormonism or Jehovah's Witnesses or some modern off-shoot that claims to be christian
but christianity at large does not claim that they are christians and i want to use that analogy
in a modern context to help people connect these dots because i think the ancient elite religion
and let's just say they are the Jehovah's Witnesses they are the Mormonism of the ancient world
because the common folk would have been the trinitarian orthodox creedal position for millennia
and then someone comes along and goes no that's wrong look at the inquisitions look at all the
stuff you guys have fallen away from the truth and we're gonna try and bring back reality for
whatever reason they want to say this is how it always should have been so this is exactly what
you see with the modern cults of like Jehovah's Witnesses or Mormonism is that a fair analysis
of what we're looking at i'm sure that there is a way in which i'm it's not the best comparison but
do you think that there's something to that and what i'm saying yeah definitely and and i mean i
would say it starts earlier even like we can look at Islam right i mean so Islam does the exact same
thing it says i i we we stand in line with all of this but it's not the same and so you've gotten
it a bit wrong but you know and and in Islam accepts the the Torah and the the gospels are at
least some understanding of them as being something and Jesus shows up there and then but it's like
it's but it's not right your your understanding of God just isn't right and so i was doing a thing
the other day on on YouTube and somebody sent a chat it was like well have you considered the
Muslim the Muslim picture of Jesus because that gets rid of all the problems that you have with
the Trinity or whatever and i'm like but it it it doesn't it doesn't fix anything like it i'm not
looking for a solution to whether God is three or one or 72 or whatever i don't care like that's
not that's not what i'm looking for but it's exactly like you said that these things just continue
and so you get to the the the Mormonism thing right you get to Joseph Smiths who says oh well
i've got a new revelation and and this tells me that that God is like this or you get the again
the Jehovah's Witnesses it's the same thing or i mean honestly it's the same thing with the
Christian with the Christian denominations i would say that you especially like when you get to the
Reformation and and Martin Luther says no God doesn't react like that he you can't buy your
forgiveness from God this is messed up so let's let's do it different and then you've got these
men and these Anabaptists the the the re-baptizers that are like down there going to wait a minute
you can't baptize kids because they don't know what's going on you have to make an active choice
and so they start baptizing each other and saying the church messed that up so you've
got to do it this way if you're going to get saved and this is exactly what the literature of the
Bible these authors are saying about the the folk religion of Israel and and how they got into the
tough pickle they're in under Assyria and then of course we do see later narratives under Babylon
and then Persia comes in and so is that's exactly what you're saying is going on yeah yeah and so
i think that's why you get i mean you get you get reformers in religion that say things are going
horribly wrong we need to change it right so Muhammad does that that's what that's what
Joseph Smith does that's what Martin Luther does that's what i mean these these are things
where people come in and say listen to me i know what has gone wrong with our generation or why
we're in a bad place or why things aren't right and and i will give us hope or something better or
whatever and and then they they interpret and reinterpret the history of everything behind
them and and give new life to it look i this is going to sound bold and blunt but it is what it is
because i've been vocalizing my position lately and it's kind of stirred some controversy among
people because i'm usually just a happy go lucky and live and let live and i am still that it's
just Derek you really think these things you you're really speaking about how you feel about
these things i know because i'm always interviewing people like you and academics but i've made some
i have drawn some conclusions along the way and i know there are certain things where i'm like
i think that but i don't know that and that's the scholar in me that makes me very hesitant to draw
these conclusions but just being very forthright this looks extremely man-made to me and when i
make that statement and i hear people not like that um i have to imagine there's some psychological
reaction taking place that makes them not like that it's it looks like the rest of the world
religions that do the same thing in buddhism there's reformations and in hinduism there's
reformation every world religion does this exact same thing so does that are you on the i mean i
don't know if you agree with me you can disagree with me i'd love that if you did make it even more
fun right but like it seems very human and not so much like god is actively actually doing these
things unless you want to say this is how god plays the game i mean but that yeah i mean i think you
know me well enough now that no that's that's my position as well that that the i mean the
the human imagination and the human ability to to think and imagine and play games and and explain
what's going on around them is the source of so much great fiction right i mean we we know this
like that that the humans write great fiction and and all we have to do to move from fiction to
fiction to things written about god is to just accept that humans are also writing that and
then we're done like there's no other step we have to take and and again this will be the same thing
for most people and this is i know it's a it's it's used in a kind of a sarcastic or mean way
sometimes to say like you know christians are atheists of four thousand gods but i'm just the
atheist one more whatever ricky grievous or whatever says that or so i know people say but
like but i think in all honesty like there's such a clear connection um or logic to that because
like when we read the ancient the old nor smiths like i you know i'm in norway now and so you've
got like odin and thor and things like that that like they like okay there might be some people
that take it seriously um that have have their their still keep that kind of norse paganism or
whatever but pretty much everybody looks at it as good interesting fun stories and we're really
glad that they didn't get burned when the christians came through um and and the same is basically
true for greek and roman mythology uh we don't we don't walk around wondering whether or not Zeus
and uh you know hercules and Athena and all these people were real we just like the fact that the
literature survived and especially when uh people retell it like which has become really popular
these days that people uh people are re are rewriting the old myths and giving us a little
more like good language to it they're super fun it's great stories and and it's fiction but at
one point it wasn't right at one point that was descriptions of what people thought their world
was or their divine realm was like the norse mythologies were there to explain why things are
the way they are just like Yahweh is supposed to explain the way things are for the israelites
it's of course it's human like of course it is it's humans that imagine what would the gods be
like if they exist what what makes the sun go what makes the moon rise what makes the earth
tremble what makes us exist yeah it just to point out if i was a believer anymore i like
hearing this about astra and his you know Yahweh and his astra if if i were to try and make a case
against someone like me today i'd say that that makes better sense than god alone we talk about
made in his image right well genesis says our image which is plural so if i were apologetic
and trying to like go listen actually the Mormons were on to something with their
information i mean god has a wife and you will too and you'll be ruling your own planet whatever
you know the kind of theology that comes in and i make the case and say actually if i were to really
try and force this worldview and say this is true i'd say we are reflection of the divine and the
divine has you know a husband wife and you have the pantheon and children and all that kind of
stuff that would have been the case that makes better sense than a single deity who's a male deity
who's all by himself lonesome in this other realm ruling and there's no couple but you at
least have a couple here in genesis in the garden so maybe we're a reflection of the divine however
i think i'm with you that this is more probable that man has made god in his image and and we see
that that makes the most sense of everything to me but if i were trying to really make a case for god
in why mankind has its kind of certain i guess you'd say gender roles the whole nine that we
see throughout history it would be that the divine is a reflection of that it makes no sense there
isn't a female goddess when we have this only a male dude like come on so if i was making a case
this would be a good one in my opinion well and and i think and i i mean i love that last point
you made that i mean so we're you know we're making it in the in it's we're making god in our image
and so we're we're imagining as time changes imagining him in different ways right and and so
like one of the great things a modern parallel is what what is like if so if you look at the more
liberal side of christianity like what is what is god now right god is love for for most people
and this is like a super important thing in liberal christianity and in the you know that
that god is love and so like the whole love your neighbor is the most important thing and then they
point out all the things the great things god did that we're loving would say like oh but god loved
us so much that he made sacrifices and god loves us loves us love and and then would look to that
and and like those and those texts are there right so we're not we don't have to deny that the
bible does also talk about god in ways that can be presented as loving but it does kind of erase
all the genocide and the like sacrificing his own son and and the more violent tendencies of god
but what people in you know in more modern liberal context want is a loving god because
that is where our culture is kind of moving in the liberal culture is that loving everyone
accepting everyone being like that and that's a wonderful thing like i would much rather that
we end up with rewriting the bible in a direction that says god is only love and don't be mean or
bad in any way i think that would be the absolute best development we could have but there's something
that's changed in culture too since the time of of yaoi and ashura and that's that we live in a book
culture where people think that something physical is is in existence and therefore you can't change
it and and that is kind of that makes it really hard for theologies to grow and and become i guess
you know solidified as something different because back in the day you know say three four five hundred
bc like if if you're you've got new ideas about things you can just write it like you you can
write it down and eventually the old scrolls are going to fall apart and you got new stuff and
that might be the only thing that survives like you it's it's it's not a it's not as drastic as
now where if you try to you write a new gospel and say it's only the god is love everybody be like
nope and and this has been that way since since the time of jesus right because marcion is the
same thing like he tries to get rid of all the all the stuff uh that's negative and and murder
murderous and all that but he's like people stop him like oh no no no bad marcion don't do that
you make it a powerful point about the literature being a dead sea scroll scholar so you're dealing
with the oldest known material evidence of literature pertaining to the bible um that scroll
related or even parchment related or whatever and getting behind that trying to discover we really
are dependent on archaeology to try and help us figure out what was the practice so constant
reformations uh i used this yesterday in my discussion with kip and it was the fact that
paula fredersen for example says paul's late you mean our earliest voice to christianity is late
and who knows what it looked like whatever christ following group there was before him
that's like this black box we wish we could uncover and hear the voice from
we just don't have it in the same way you're saying with the religious practice
of what was going on before the material evidence we have we're looking at like fragments and
fractions of data due to archaeological digs and stuff but we have good suspicion to say
it does not match what the text authors are saying it is so you can in my way this sounds
bad maybe i'm looking at it as here is the propaganda of these elite religious folks
trying to impose that and and it becomes what wins because it's the literature that that kind of
wins over history in some way even though there's competition i would say between inaki and judaism
and various other forms of it even jubilees is kind of rewriting genesis etc etc like you get where
i'm going like this propaganda you can buy it and say hey i'm still practicing judaism hey i'm
still a christian hey you know i accept the voice of this minority group of elites to tell me what's
accurate if not explaining me why babalon was destroyed then explaining me why it's here it's
because they worshiped all these different gods so we don't deny dr munger that you're right that
they worship those things but that was wrong and that's why these bad things happened what do you
say to that and then we'll get to we'll get to q and a after this i mean i don't know i just like
there's just so i don't want to i don't want to get into it with you because i know that you
don't actually mean what you just said so i know i know but i just have i have such a problem with the
with the adoptionism and the idea that so the problem is that that christianity appropriates
the god of israel and claims the promises that come in the old testament as the road right
and so that that already is it's a massively problematic thing that where we kind of changed
the idea of god's chosen people from being god's chosen people which is in the old testament to
being god's chosen those who agree with us right and so the like the people goes from being the
ethnic group to being the the people that agree with paul and and so that is like this and then to
say that the god of israel is then the god of every single christian and then to get into this whole
thing like you you bring up it just makes me like my head makes my head spin you know because
because there's no but there's just so much there's just so much uh so so many weird um
there's just so many weird dynamics because people like like literally
like will argue that that christians are the only right way to interpret the old testament
and that that israel missed their chance right and that i mean it's just that it's just horrible
like it's just i'm sorry it's just like such a strange thing to need to be your your hill to die
on that that you and and this this group of people that decided that the god of these people
would send a savior for those people but now we who aren't those people are going to decide
that he's only for us and he's not for them because they didn't accept it
all right into show everybody now
wow um you have a way about you when you talk matt that is very clear and it makes a lot of
sense and this i hope i look we're preaching to the choir many people in the chat most i'm sure
agree with what we're saying and think the way that we do and then there are there are those who
may not agree with our conclusions and i respect that i do i really do um at the end of the day i
hope they respect the same and they understand like he's got a point that makes sense i can't
knock them for thinking this doesn't seem true and they may hold on for whatever reason it is
i have one guy tell me he's a christian i'm not going to mention their name they're a scholar
phd and they told me jesus failed like his apocalyptic expectations failed and i said well
why are you if you i stopped the recording i said can i ask you some personal like why are you
still a christian and they were just like i i like the the church i like i like the uh
you know the setting and and the the organization of it and stuff and i'm like
nowhere did they have like a well he died and rose on the third day and that is absolutely
why and it's so true um and that was totally like interesting hearing him say that so there's like
there's no animosity with that there are some that run around and they have they are the bearers
of truth and this literature is right and if you don't believe it you know what the repercussions are
in such and they're the ones who read these voices from this literature that you have absorbed
and literally broken down in its scribal form on fragments in the dead sea and its most primitive
state that we have and you're looking at it going um yeah i'm not i don't like i'm obviously don't
believe it but you love it you love it and they're just they're buying what they're being told so
there's a sense of meaning where i think people want to believe like you talked earlier we want
things to be true even if they necessarily aren't yeah yeah well and and i mean it's like i said
i i have no problem with with people choosing to to use that as their lens for for viewing the world
and and i'm very clear about that that i read things from a historical perspective and i'm
interested in what the things reflect of of of historical realities and so if people want to
say nope the bible says that jesus rose from the dead and so i believe that and the bible says that
all these things are are bad they're false they're false gods or whatever and and that that's fine
like they that's perfectly fine people can can choose to live like that and that's fine and and
hopefully they then will use that knowledge to to be kind and generous with others and accepting
and loving i hope that's the reading they have because i see a lot of really mean stuff like i
mean i tell you man i've just starting a youtube channel was probably the the worst thing i could
have done for for my my feeling of whether or not people are good because the amount of stuff that
people write to me um and the way people attack is so surprising to me um because it's not it's
it's it's it's everyone anyone who is who is angry attacking vindictive is is doing it in the name
of god um and and the amount of private messages i get the amount of stuff where people need to tell
me um how horrible i am you know and stuff like that it in the name of god and jesus it's just so
surprising um because the like that that's not helpful you know it's like that's not that's not
nudging me back into the fold of god or whatever um but the but like when we look at it from the
perspective of asking what were historical realities or how close can we get to historical
realities which is what i'm interested in then then things just look different and so for me like
there's there's a million reasons why i wouldn't want to you know become a christian again or
whatever but like the the the bible is just like one of them it's just that it's not from a historical
perspective not convincing that these things logically lead to the conclusions that uh that
the christian community reaches i want to say sorry that you have to deal with that i've been
dealing with that for several years with this youtube channel um in fact i i think a lot of
people and i i i know they mean well the ones that are like get thicker skin derrick don't let the
people bother you yesterday's video about saying they're calling me a lying or a liar i've been
called that for several years i'm vocalizing to show what goes on that people don't see and i do
it not because it's look i've been called this forever i really want to show and explain what
the heck is going on with my yesterday video for example this is war video you know that and i've
been getting that for like i said a long time and i'm simply pointing out like look at the christian
channels they have the same apologetic spin the same christian scholars that are going to
push their point of view and myth vision doesn't play that game we aren't interested in here's
our conclusion we're going to prove it now you know that's what i see happening personally i'm
interested in yeah yeah no i was just going to say and like and and it's perfectly understandable
that that uh that people have different perspectives and their youtube channels are different
like so i don't i mean i'm i'm not going to be doing any anything that's that i feel is like
anti whatever that's inflammatory on my channel because i'm not interested in that like i just
want to walk through texts from a scholarly perspective and i'm interested in in in doing
that and and i i see what you do is giving giving air to uh to scholars and to scholarly
perspectives that aren't coming through on a dogmatic or or you know kind of confessional
style channels and i think that's also perfectly a fair fair game and and so it's just uh it's
it's just so so surprising to me that that that is i or let me say differently i think that i've
spent so long in the in the academic world that i'm used to that kind of like when you when you do
something and somebody doesn't agree like okay of course you have sometimes that people say things
really boldly and say like you're an idiot whatever but like normally it's just like they just write
an article where they argue it better from a different perspective and then you're like oh
okay well i didn't see that the first time around and then things progress and so i'm happy to change
my academic views all the time because when new evidence comes to light new interpretations come
then we're we're good to go and like you might have a fierce interest like i had this in uh
what was it six months ago i was at a conference and i i said some stuff that provoked some of my
colleagues at the conference and uh and they um it was on the Dead Sea Scrolls and i was just making
some uh a case for for ways we deal with texts and things like that and there was some really fierce
discussion like i got a lot of pushback and like to the point where somebody came up to me
afterwards and was like man that was rough and i was like yeah it's fine and then we all went out
and had a beer and and it was fine and we just and you can do that but like the the i think the people
that uh i'm interacting with now are that are interacting with me i'm not really interacting
with them um those aren't the kind of people that that i would sit down and have a beer with
you know and so you get kind of used to this it's but it's such a good thing to to at least make
available knowledge i think that's one of the most important things for me knowledge should be
available and if you're rejecting any type of knowledge just because it belongs to a certain
uh a group like i i think that's gonna gonna lead to more problems amen amen uh one i want to
leave it a thing of encouragement for you but also the audience mainly because i what can happen is
when we speak on something it can it can stir up the crowds and then it can create animosity that
i don't want there yes i do think there's some honestly there's i'll use the word troll but that
that's that could be synonymous with derogatory terms for people that i'm not trying to you know
go out down that path there are several trolls here so yeah but i want to i just want to leave
something positive there are several people who identify as christian believers whatever their
position might be they can be muslims they can be jews doesn't matter their ontology that have
wrote me and said you're doing the work of god man i don't i don't care like i get i don't follow
you to your conclusion but man that historical research is way better than anything i've ever
heard from any apologetic channel from any christian channel i've ever seen keep doing what you're
doing derrick don't let the haters get to you and i want to give you that message too just
brother to brother because like it's super discouraging if you allow it to be seven years
ago when i first got clean off heroin i did a recovery channel i had several comments at first
i did not know what was the youtube world like people wished i was dead right like i got used
to people saying you're a worthless junkie addict who deserves to die and like then i had other
comments that were like you saved my life your words and you're documenting what you've done
you have saved my life please never stop the same happens here you have the haters you have
the people that are going to be triggered they're upset they're scared i think it's a defense mechanism
for the most part because what you're doing they have connected and identified with that worldview
so much that to attack the worldview is like attacking their parent attacking someone they love
so their reacting is really just fear and so i'm like just i blame the whole thing out because
it can be discouraging but you just thicken your skin and just know that reaction it's speaking
more than what they're saying at you about them than what the reality is so that's my personal
i'm here to learn from you but i hope that encourages you not to give up on your youtube
channel because people need you people want you out here people want to learn from you
speaking of which and i would love to have you comment subscribe to dr munger's youtube channel
go give him positive comments we're going to refresh this at the end everybody we're going to
see how many subscribers he's grown just from this stream alone and of course over the next few days
he's going to be messaging me going wow wow look we got some people who support show him positive
love in the comment section to drown out the negativity anyway did you want to comment on
that before we start super chats no thanks i just appreciate i appreciate it i know you get a lot
of stuff thrown at you and and um yeah i i don't read your comment sections either because there's
so much my wife gets so defensive my wife like i punch him in the face right now if they you know
because it's really really dark stuff and these oftentimes are people in the name of god but there
are some believe it or not that aren't and you you almost go like is this some radical extreme
atheist person who who who has some conspiracy theories about something or whatever it's really
odd it's hard to know the internet has all sorts of stuff on it so yeah thank you everybody in the
chat like the video right now we're going to super chats and i'm going to drop the banner
so you can actually see us but feel free to super chat your questions and i'm going to the tippy
like the video let the algorithm gods pay attention to us maybe ash was one of the
pantheon within the algorithm of youtube who knows uh let's get up here it's taking me a
second to scroll up because we had a lot of chat so far today almost 500 people watching uh matt
nice yeah i think we're good for a thursday right it is again miss j thank you for becoming a member
or renewing your membership it uh always means a lot to see the family we are building here and
educating the world you're helping make that happen seriously thank you that's mrs yallway
at the mrs you know the j the j source the j source definitely not the l source like not with the uh
dealing with elaheem uh christine alice uh i think i'm saying your last name properly thank you for
the super chat scrolling down our areas super sticker people are just showing love today
they're not making you work jim johnson with the super sticker thank you so much
let's get down here to the next one oh we got our first question i think it is
this was your life what do you say to apologists who say this information was just corrupted over
time and l l yan was always yahweh they never worshiped l but adonai
i mean it just i i don't it just doesn't make any sense i'm sorry i i get the question i agree
like so what would you say okay i would say but why on earth does the bible again again use different
names why does it in exodus uh exodus chapter six why does it say to your name by the name
l el yan i was i was known to the patriarchs but now you'll know me as as adonai or as yahweh
like why does it why does it have to do that oh it has to do that because of making sure that
everybody knows oh anytime you hear anything about el or el yan el should i that they really
it meant yahweh but because they were talking about other gods and and so it's just like it's
i i think that i mean i would love for an apologist to give me this argument actually
because they're saying it was corrupted over time like if an apologist using the thing that the
bible's corrupted over time and leaves these uh el and el yan and el should i things in there then
wow that's then they've accepted a more real picture of the bible but it's it's just because
the the the development is just so clear i mean there's you have all these different names and
that's fine you can if you want to imagine them as always being one person that's fine you can
imagine them that way but that's you know the texts use these completely different names it's
just the way it is thank you for answering thank you for the super chat secret 206 isn't the
polytheism of israel acknowledged and condemned repeatedly in the biblical text themselves
right that's my point um so my point is that the the biblical text themselves are written backwards
so they are looking backwards from a situation where they're saying we messed up and we got destroyed
what was the cause of this and they say oh well we should have been faithful to one god and only
one god and then here comes the covenant in the form of the book of deuteronomy that we should
have followed and then they rewrite the entire or write the entire history saying this is where
every little step went wrong where every god was done was worshiped that shouldn't have been or
where didn't god wasn't worshiped when he should have been and this is acknowledging the polytheism
and and condemning it but it's the the point is that that's done from one single perspective
after the destruction of of israel and juda where then they're trying to figure out why it went wrong
and so yes i agree is you're you're exactly right secret 206 it is repeatedly acknowledged and
and the but the point of the matter is that that was the reality that wasn't problematic
for 99.9 of the people ever and it's only after the Babylonian exile that it becomes
the standard thinking that oh we we need to avoid all these things for everyone
another way of me getting in in in addressing the question that is being asked and assuming
it's a modern voice that's trying to say this is how i'm seeing the question kind of can can be used
for an apologizes but yeah yeah yeah they said that was wrong i i believe their voices and what
you're trying to point out is sure and yeah you can accept their voices but that's not the whole
picture and in fact there's a much larger picture that is ignored because all you have is those voices
like we don't have the voices of competing probably competing priestly sex and what they
thought about multiple deities we only have these texts that are somehow giving clout and because of
that you just believe what you read it's like what i said the other day on a video about paul
paul says it's me paul i do not lie i tell you the truth and of course has been sarcastic on
april first and saying like whoever says they don't lie and lies nobody says i'm not lying and
they're actually lying my point is is you the reader the believer sees paul and it doesn't
necessarily have to be the believer some people might accept that he's not lying maybe he really
isn't lying but you just believe he's not lying because he said he's not lying like how do you
know he's not lying how do you know these authors are actually being honest and true and what they're
saying is accurate you don't you just accept what they're saying is accurate and true and so
it's a very complicated thing but that i wanted to dive deeper on that if that was okay with you
yeah oh yeah but then there's two things like one one response to what you said at the end
is just like i loved what happened um i mean it's it's years ago now that the da Vinci code came out
by by dan brown but he wrote in the beginning of the da Vinci code right at the very beginning says
everything in this book is true right everything in this book is true and that made bunch of
christians lose their shit like because because obviously it wasn't in line with the established
understanding of church history and it talked about all these different things and the night's
templar and all this kind of stuff and and there were literally books written debunking the da Vinci
code because dan brown said everything here is true and then they asked him like well how how can
it all be true and he's like well it just is and and like he was so cool about it because like it's
obviously not true like everybody knows that the da Vinci code is a work of fiction but it just
made people be like it has to i have to prove it right i have to you know and they're like it's
and so the the the base of reality is just different but then the other thing i wanted to say is like
you know when when you say things like oh well the the text says it that way and that's the only
thing we have right that's all we have well that's not all we have we have to learn to interpret
archaeological and historical data to help us understand the way things were and that's a
different source and that source says something completely different than what the texts are
saying sometimes and then we have to weigh those things up against each other and ask what do we
want to listen to do we want to listen to historical data or do we want to take the take the word of
of the text and that is a a negotiation that historical scholars do is to look at the data
that we have through comparative and archaeological things by social history by things like that
anthropology and and then compare it to the texts we have and then work with the texts in
ways that help us to understand what they reflect and so we're not without other sources it's just
that those other sources often contradict what right bible is saying so well put and there might
be a you know you can find multiple authors in the bible that support this priestly elite
perception but i was thinking about the flood just a moment in this and it's like why did the
great flood happen the bible tells you the wickedness of man and the really you could almost
say the procreation of this deity with with mortal women and such hap deities with mortal women
and look at the wickedness and corruptness but then you go to the myth it borrows from and it's
actually antagonistic toward and you go well actually in one of those cases the gods wouldn't
shut up so the god ends up wanting to destroy the gods the in the other case it's humans won't
shut up so they want to flood the human so what why did the flood happen depends on who you read
and where you're getting your information from and all of them can be wrong you could argue one
of them's true or you could say this is great storytelling there's all sorts of stuff so thank
you for that im nag dr. matthew is there any knowledge of the origins of yaw way could it
have egyptian influence so the i mean the the knowledge that we have of the of the origin of
of yaw way is very scant like we don't we don't have a lot of stuff we have these couple of
inscriptions that are that are fairly early from the they are from the northern Sinai and so it's
very possible that there's some egyptian influence on that we also have i mean the oldest inscriptions
we have in Semitic are also from this area from the Sinai area and so it's it's perfectly reasonable
that yaw way was was connected to to worship in that area and and developed as a as kind of a more
of a local tribal god that that was you know kind of brought into the israeli connection and and
whether there's egyptian influence i mean of of of course there's there's like there's possibilities
for egyptian influence and for assyrian bablonian hittite influence on on everything during this
period so it's it's it would be surprising if there wasn't influence is the way i look at it
it's almost like i imagine even in the larger empires there's probably influence of egyptian
ideas into theirs and theirs into these like even those massive areas probably have influence from
each other especially the small little communities sandwiched and controlled in between yeah for
sure for sure my one black friend good to see you here hello everyone check out exodus 2228
thou shall not revile the gods nor curse the ruler of thy people how about that
how about that
so uh the i mean when you look at it it's it's a weird it's a really weird
verse and i mean it to see what what that comes up in is is a part of the of the law that's just
kind of gives a lot of a lot of random things but that are very connected to other ancient near
eastern uh law codes and so i mean when you read the read the law right after it i just want to
i'll just i'll just read it from from my thing here but like so you read this and it says um
let's see so 28 is there so the the if you read for if i read from verse 25 says if you lend money
to my people to the poor among you you should not deal with them as a creditor you should not extract
interest from them okay so this is that interest that you can't take interest from fellow israelites
if you take your neighbor's cloak as a pawn you shall restore it to the when the sun goes down
and for if for it may be your neighbor's only clothing and blah blah blah and then so then
we get this and you shall not revile god or curse a leader of your people um and okay that's
that's fine and then you shall not delay to make offerings from the fullness of your harvest to
the outflow of your presses the first burden of your sons you should give to me
yeah again right um and so it's it's a really um yeah it's it's just a set of laws here or of
regulations that are probably just collected from other other sources or they've brought in
that these are things that are thrown together and they have a kind of random character to them
and you've got things that cover you know you cover slaves and you cover lending and you cover
prayer and you cover offerings and it's just like um yeah it's it's just a very a very strange thing
and then that's the translation too so i noticed that that he is put on there um the translation
that gods so it translates Elohim as gods in the plural uh where others will translate it as as god
like as as but the word for gods there is Elohim and so it's kind of hard to know um whether or not
that was uh yeah what was intended uh what was intended with that verse right because if you
do take it plural then in a sense they're they're obviously saying the chief deity is the one they
worship which would be El or Yahweh at this time um but it would just be like don't be disrespectful
to the other deities but uh that would it wouldn't be saying worship them but necessarily like don't
don't uh don't go out of your way to revile them it would seem but if you take this as one and just
tell them about the god of them right i mean there's probably various ways to interpret this but what
would you say if it's it's plural am i on the right track with that yeah i mean so it
i guess yeah again it's it's just the question of uh of what how you want to read it right so if
you read uh that you shouldn't you shouldn't i mean really the word um so i just i mean looking at it
in in Hebrew and the um the word that's there is the word to to to curse really um so like you
you shouldn't you shouldn't curse odd um and and so that's i mean it i don't think that's a very
problematic statement um if you read it as a if you read Elohim as the god of Israel so it makes
sense in the bible like that but if you want to read it as a plural then you shouldn't curse
the gods then that's you know it's interesting but this is the big problem with having a one
a word for one individual god that also happens to be the plural for the many gods it's just kind
of it can get really uncertain thank you so much my friend our areas again thank you for the super
oh did i miss one at the top i hope i didn't miss the super sticker at the top but okay so thank
you didn't the fertility gods like ashura and ball uh balls require child sacrifice as well
forerunner of Yahweh sacrificing his son yeah so there there are some texts that uh
that do point to ashura and ball requiring sacrifices and and we also have that in the
Hebrew bible so it's i mean it's already there we just read one actually i mean that uh it's in
in exodus 22 uh where it says uh the firstborn of your sons you should give to me um that's
i mean we can we can say oh well he meant give in the way of become a priest or do like go
into youth with a mission and serve god and you'll be the you know the near holy or you know but uh
it's in a in a sacrifice culture give the firstborn of your lambs give the firstfruits of your
harvest give your firstborn son it's sounds like sacrifice that's the closest clear connection
rather than oh when we get to the human we don't mean it's different now let's got it but obviously
and then of course when we get to the to the texts that say and by the way you can you can buy
uh a free pass so you don't actually have to kill your kid you know we because we get that like
yeah there's and here's how much it costs to redeem your your child so that you don't have to
kill it uh so we you know it's it's there yeah there's so much in that topic too i'm hoping to
get francesca starica puluan about her dissertation which is actually on human sacrifice and in
ancient israel and i want to do an episode on that because we've done god and anatomy twice
covering different things but i really want to get into human sacrifices especially as well
spoken as she is so don't worry nobody makes i don't hope nobody makes a clip of that i really
want to get into human sacrifice well you know i don't want to get into human sacrifice but i do
ooh um no she's so well spoken i trust me i'm trying i've been emailing so it's very difficult
she's a busy busy person so uh i know she'll respond at some point pansy pot can we detect
traces of ashura in the hebrew bible yes so the i mean so we this is kind of where we started out
but the um there are 40 verses where the word ashura is used uh sometimes in the singular
sometimes in the plural and the um the majority of these are connected to the the polls the the
actual ashura polls that would have been put up as a place of a distinguishing thing for the place
of worship of ashura but in several places also then it's it's the name of the of the goddess ashura
that's that's actually there in the text and so we um like we saw in the in the setting up of an
of a graven image of ashura in the temple in uh in second kings is kind of the best uh the best
one but there are also a number of other places where where ashura is is definitely mentioned
by name in the bible i know there's one academic i was um watching religion for breakfast channel
that it's a it's a lady scholar who actually tried to argue it's purely this poll thing but um
you are saying there's a correlation between the poll and the deity and that like it's i
think diva does the same but um how could it not be like you i mean like for me i so i think diva
has a has a quote i think i even wrote it down because i was so like i think it's such a good
quote wait a minute in this book uh yes i i found it um so he um he says you know because because
people don't you know don't want to accept this you know we don't want to read it like that and he
it's it's in his conclusion i think and he writes i find i find that rather desperate and i suspect
that it reflects the reluctance of many biblical scholars to even consider the possibility that
yaoi may have had a female consort and it's like it's that exact feeling that the reluctance of
accepting that the polls are that the word for poll is ashura and that the poll then was connected
to the worship of ashura if that's hard to accept then it's only because you don't want to talk about
the worship of ashura in the bible like there's there's not there's there's not an there's no reason
when we have a goddess named ashura that's reflected in other canaanite contexts that it's
reflected in the in the lands around it's even mentioned in the bible and then we have these
polls that are told that are mentioned as places of worship of something that need to be torn down
and they're called ashuras like why wouldn't it be that like i think i think everybody out there
listening to is sees that probably like when you when you when you explain it like that that these
things that are called sacred polls or whatever in the bible like the word is ashura that's it
well put i think the same could be said about like yaoi figurines or standing stones for yaoi or
something the same resistance yeah sorry now i'm interrupting you no no i look i want you to i want
to learn from you man no but i'm just like because i mean and that's my point is that
like we we see this in in some of the details in the bible but when you move to archaeology
and to social history you see it even broader and so by by like by going into these details
and finding these traces of of ashura in the in the hebrew bible then it it helps us to accept
what we find in archaeology as reflecting social realities and not just being you know anomalies
from from what we think the bible is trying to say wow thank you and trust me butt in because
i never am offended uh dr sherrill in the myth of genesis 126 do you think the word you usage us
included ashura hi dr sherrill i so i like it i i wish that there was reason to say it but i don't
i don't i don't know that we can make that argument so the i mean the traditional argument or the
traditional traditional line of thinking is that we're talking about the the pantheon or the the
you know this is the council of the gods or whatever that that is in the us in in genesis 126
and so then i guess ashura would be included in that but there's there's not uh like there's no
convincing reconstruction of what the israelite pantheon would have looked like that i would
feel like comfortable with uh with supporting or anything like that i think the it still is a mystery
that the word that the that the plurals are used that the we and the us is used because it is
it would have been so easy to fix if you were writing that like you you didn't have to do it
like that and so the who is it whether that it really is just a a leftover trace of the
Babylonian influence um or whether it's uh actually imagining an israelite pantheon pantheon
or uh or uh you know divine council i don't know but if it that is what it is then i think
probably ashura is there at his side but it there's just so many what ifs about it that i i don't i
don't know well great question and uh thank you for that charol rama haraia i hope i'm
saying that hurry up storytelling for humans in general seems more impactful than just facts do
humans need better stories to outgrow our dependency on religion or meaning do we need well well i mean
obviously we our stories convey meaning and this is why if we're defining truth as like meaning
well then you can find truth almost anywhere and uh nobody does that better than peterson jordan
peterson he can read anything and squeeze something out of it it's like
go and destroy all the amalekites anyway go ahead but i think i think the underlying point
of this question is really good that that um i mean this so this this kind of goes back to
the ancient greek philosophy i would almost say like the so the like the the kind of
play-doh and the and the platanus and and and Aristotle and everybody they were they didn't
like the sophists because the sophists were were rhetoricians and they could convince people
um of things just by being good at talking and that was like they would they would sell themselves
for hire and would argue something and use good rhetoric and good storytelling i would say to
to to win an argument and and what the you know the opponents of them would say was that this is
this is just bad philosophy it's really bad if you win an argument because you're a good
rhetorician and not uh not actually telling the truth or giving the best arguments and and so
but i think that it's it's a very illustrative point that what we're what we're dealing with when
we when we read stories is not necessarily um the truth but it's it's emotion or it's uh feeling or
it's engagement or something and stories don't have to be true to be convincing or to be exciting
or to make you feel something so i mean i think that but i think it's a it's a an awareness of
that is a pretty important thing whether or not we need to outgrow things i don't know if we can
outgrow the fact that we are engaged better more by stories than we are by you know wrote facts but
it's yeah interesting maybe we should marry the two in some way yeah and re retell the stories but
with fact-based realities i don't know and be willing to change him as evidence comes in
imnak thank you so much for that super chat isn't that exactly the problem making god like us just
opens the door to also claim that my people are special we made him it's for us and our people
not sure if i'm making my point it's like it's almost like you brought up the nordic uh the the
norse mythology i can't imagine they didn't see themselves as chosen in some way by their deity
it's like the greeks the athenians especially were big they were kind of xenophobic and they thought
we descended directly from this deity yaoi in a sense becomes the adopting god of the israelite
people in their perception especially by the first century so it's like we're his chosen
everyone else is not and that chosenness has created bigotry in all sorts of problems in the
world amongst various religions it's not just the abrahamic ones so i think that's what they're
trying to say but yeah well and i think it's just i mean the point is it's a circular thing right that
that i mean people imagine god in their image and imagine their god having the values and the
whatever the the systems that they have and then they can use that to then tell other people that
no no our god supports us in the way we are in the way we do things and and i think that's that's
exactly the point i was trying to make about about modern christianity as well that this is
just a pretty common thing that you you see the values you have the social values you have in god
and so then people that are against a certain thing that they see in society will then be able
to find that support for that in their bible people that are in favor of something will find
that same that same support in their bible and those two can go head to head saying no no god
is like this no god is like that and they're both using the exact same bible and almost identical
texts to make the same exact point but but what they're finding is they're finding their god and
then they're arguing that their god is on their side this is amazing thank you great response
vanne thank you so much for becoming a member today um this has been a heck of a stream i'm
having a hoot i hope you're enjoying yourself matt oh yeah jc learning from dr munger and
myth vision podcast thank you thank you i was lucky to be raised secular but religious studies are
fascinating as cultural stories i hope dr munger can let us uh guilt go or let can let guilt go
steven hassan has good advice thank you yeah i think you i think they're also talking about
what we mentioned earlier about people talking to you so thank you jc i'm scrolling down going down
down down in way down we go here we go oh there's that guy named pat all snap oh stop all the
scholarship yeah okay flow over me it's pretty it's pretty heavy pat i'm trying to resist it right
now thank you for showing up for two dollars you know i mean he if he was seriously would have given
me at least 20 doll every church going person knows the the more money the more clout you have in
that congregation tw thank you so much for that super chat um you didn't have a question thank you
for the support brilliant beaches says p 52 5600 early manuscripts name one about caesar
p 52 i think this is about john right the this is that fragment on the gospel john so i think
brilliant peaches is trying to say that that there is manuscript evidence of the gospel of john
from within 150 years of jesus and so i guess that's i don't know what it's an argument for
but anyway and so i i don't have a problem with problematizing any texts about caesar or homer
or playdough or Aristotle or alexander the great or any other person in history i think
everything needs to be read from with the same level of criticism and i'm a manuscript scholar and so
my my entire life is built around asking these questions of what manuscripts do we actually
have for things and so i i don't find it convincing to have that kind of thing thrown about because
i don't care um about the the but but then i just want to make one more point is that
50 5600 early manuscripts then you don't know what you have because the word manuscripts gets
thrown around a lot and people tend to think that you have entire copies of the bible or something
no you might have a couple of scraps with a couple of verses that we that we can't connect you might
have a some cases you have a whole a whole page in some cases then once you get up into the into
fourth century then you're getting entire texts entire vivals things like that is that what you
call early like is so what what are we calling early but the the vast majority of things are
small exerted or quotations in the church fathers that have just happened to be also called early
manuscripts and so we i i don't know what the argument would be if i think i know that's what
i was gonna say i think i know i go i recently made a remark about the birth narrative in
sutonius the portents leading up to caesar augustus just one caesar by the way there are
several caesars who have divine births with portents and miracles and and really miraculous
claims that are attributed to them um i think what they're trying to say is name an early manuscript
that talks about caesar in some divine way this might be a christian apologist i could
be mistaken here i might be reading into this but i i say that because they're saying look at
early manuscripts but i want to make something just to remind people the roman roman empire
collapses and christianity becomes the main religion that christians themselves are the
ones having to preserve the history here so it's like imagine finding an empire that was once the
thing like assyrian assyria and then you find later on in the seventh eighth century a different
model that they worshiped a different deity or something happens um it's really did they preserve
anything or not somehow preservation proves validity why not become a muslim because they have
great preservation of the quran like who you know this is the kind of argument and if that's what i'm
reading yeah but and that's how that's how i i i don't know if that's what it is then then whatever
like because i i would never make an argument that you have to believe in caesar for anything
yeah um and so that's my that's my point that i don't i don't see what the point is because what
i want is to be able to work with things historically and and i agree that i'm not
going to go out asking people to devote their lives to caesar right um i'm not going to ask anyone to
devote their life to alexander the great i'm not going to ask anyone to change the way they live
for asher bonaparte
and so i and i'm also not going to value then how i should act or be based on those things
um so i i i don't see it as being any problem like i would like to know more about the
historical realities of julia caesar if we had it i would like to know more about the
realities of first century palestine and and jesus as well but we so do i yeah so yeah i don't
like i think we agree like i'd want to know more about paul i'd want to know more about the early
church i'd like to know about jesus i'd love to know more about the caesars and i think the more
we see and know i think that it'll fill in a lot of a picture of what what's going on here and i
think that it'll just help us i think one of the things that makes it so um successful is the
unfalsifiability again of many things i think uh and i'm not saying that some things can't be
falsified but there's a mystery uh that we don't know exactly how the whole starting of some things
happened and so when you have a black box it's almost like how did the universe come to be
there's only one explanation it's my god you know and it's just that if you if if people are really
out there um arguing that because something's written in a text it has to be true then then
then i mean then it doesn't matter what we're what you're gonna say like i mean because that's my
thing is like i don't care i don't care if you have a first century copy of each of the gospels
it doesn't mean it's true like there's and and so there's like even preservation great show me
show me the manuscripts it's fine like but it just tells you what somebody wrote down
it doesn't tell you what what is true thank you so yeah seeker 206 thank you for answering
my question guys i asked because in my mind israelite religion is similar to vatic religion
not monolithic yep i i agree i think that's the i think i think humans have a tendency to try and
categorize things and and understand things and then we make things more monolithic than they usually
are um and more recent religious studies has shown us that we often misunderstand religion
because we accept that the texts the most common texts are reflective of the way people act and
think and practice their faith where in reality the the majority of of people aren't living or
acting or practicing the religion based on the texts well put thank you t w says when was time
century was the eradication of asher apoll's order was that i think they mean during second
temple or after 70 ad so no this was this was much earlier i mean the the eradication of asher apoll's
was um so i mean it depends on on on who you who you listen to what you believe but the the most
common uh i would say the most common dating of the earliest time that we would think that happened
would have been during the time of jessiah the king uh of of juda which is then around 622 bc
and that it would be when i would say a lot of scholars think that this reform was started in
in juda that where the um yeah the the king says nope we need to take back the religion or whatever
we need to centralize everything we need to burn all the cults and all the other places for worshiping
the the other gods and worshiping god even anywhere else so yawai couldn't also be worshiped
anywhere else and we bring it all into the to the to the temple in jerusalem it's called like the
cult centralization of jessiah and that is like literally less than 30 years before the 30 years
before the first Babylonian attack on Jerusalem so it's right before the exile is is what what that is
and and i i'm not sure i'm convinced that it starts then i think maybe this is also retro
retrojected from a from a time 30 years later when the Babylonians are destroying and they
start to think man we should listen to somebody but i don't know yeah there's no way to really
be too no really confident thank you tw satarkas what wasn't yawai's wife a knot at the elephantine
temple um yeah so i honestly remember so that's a really good question so a knot is ba'al's wife
in in the ugeritic texts and uh and so i i when you would i when i see that i think probably
there's something to it but i just can't remember i can't remember i don't have the text in the top
of my head so um but but a knot is also in the ugeritic pantheon and is the wife of ba'al
and there's a there's a great text called the bloodbath of a knot or something like that that's
that's such it's a great text but that also has a has a pretty clear connection to Psalm 23
it's like though i walk through the valley of shadow of death and like dining at a knot's table
at the end and stuff like that so um but yeah so but sorry uh set across i i i don't remember i
feel embarrassed because one of my colleagues isn't like an elephantine expert so he'll probably
laugh at me with them yeah i'd love to talk to them yeah yeah okay thank you so much for
that super chat victor engelman ashore had 70 children jacob's family has 70 members coincidence
or are there more connections well and there were 70 um 70 nations in the in genesis 10 table of
nations so what does this tell us that the number 70 was important it was yeah i mean i think that's
the least it says that yeah it's not a coincidence i think this is uh this is kind of the number
that you put out there to to be yeah to be complete uh at a certain point in history
and so yeah so i think it it does make sense that ash ashore's described as having 70 children
and the nations are 70 and yeah it's uh it's kind of a how many are you gonna go let's get to 70
okay so technically to be fair right this doesn't prove that that is like a direct connection but
it lends its weight toward it especially since we think the early israelites came out of canaan or
at least a lot of canaanite ideas are are embedded well i would just say that it's just part of
it i don't think it shows influence one way or the other but it just shows that these are just
common tropes that are that are used and whether or not there was uh like the birth of the 70 members
of the of whether it's the 70 nations or the 70 members of jacob's tribe or the jacob family
i don't know i get it's i don't i don't necessarily see it as a connection but i think it's just
like it's part of a more common use of the number 70 than it is a connection between the two thank
you so much hit the like button and the next super chat constellation pegasus asks so let me
share my screen real quick just to get this point across uh subscribe to dr monger we're
going to refresh this at the end stay tuned we're almost there everybody um i ask that uh please no
more super chat questions if you want to throw a super chat just to show love you can but i don't
want any more questions i want to wrap this up for matt because i know it's getting late where he
lives it's starting to he's got dinner coming up and um i love him enough not to keep him here
hating us forever um okay these are the statues i believe he's talking about i wonder how much
money for one of those statues well i don't know but no i so i think he's i think he's just being
funny so it's a constellation um i uh so i think this is one of those things here in norway we don't
make jokes about those kind of things with antiquities anymore after the whole martin scay in uh said
oh i wonder if i could find me some dead sea scrolls from the book of enok and then three months
later he could buy some for a few hundred thousand dollars like uh so but yeah the um those are those
are probably i mean i would imagine some of those were sold on the antiquities market at some point
yeah um yeah so i mean when you see it in the museum you have to wonder how it got there but uh
thank you constellation says again did jehovah's abuse his wife or treated her
the way society did well it's effective anyway but yeah i prop i mean the unfortunately we
don't have those stories but at ugarit they of course they fight and uh and that's the i mean
that's the the battling of the gods is there in the ugaritic stuff but uh but i guess i wonder
why the gods have to fight do humans never fought each other though right not my family
my family's good so why would the gods be fighting is it because we're just like them
made in their image or would it be because i digress i digress confusing confusing really
interesting i'm i gotta stop being corrupt here uh patrick miller thank you for this super chat
really appreciated pat did i see you have a question matthew can you read and explain please
book of judges 625 you want me to read and explain judges 625 judges 625 yeah i mean and so i'm i'm
i'm not exactly sure what the what the point is but i'll do it um so we're at the um i think this
is the this is the story of um of gideon and uh so i mean part of the story of gideon is that
gideon is told um so this is the text is 625 yeah and that night the lord said to him take your
father's bull the second bull seven years old and pull down the altar of bale that belongs to your
father and cut down the ashura that is beside it and build an altar to the lord your god on top of
the stronghold there so that's uh so it's um so i'm i'm guessing that the the question is how to
explain that within the framework of what we've been talking about and just say this is uh this is a
story about ancient israel where their gideon's dad has an altar to bale and ashura and
the story says that gideon needed to cut it down for god to do what he wants to save israel
and so it seems to me like it's just uh pretty clear again kind of retrojecting this
destruction of all the all the other gods and it's it's acknowledging the reality of of the
worship of bale and ashura in the in the israelites have passed and saying that but from that perspective
that it's if you do what i say and destroy those things then god will be nice to you
i think it's interesting you got baal and then your bell and then you have yaway and both are
seen as having a named deity ashura as a wife and el also had ashura as a wife like competition
going on here with like different gods are married to this goddess named ashura yep very fun stuff
jerry springer in the ancient world d morris the bible doesn't teach religion it teaches those who
are called to worship in spirit and truth his ways are not our ways but you make money just
like the false church without faith the bible is sealed yeah well that's i mean i i don't know i
i don't know d morris so i don't know what the what the whether i mean i'm assuming this is a
serious i'm yes i just chuckle you know i mean i'm just all i all i'd say is that you know i i know
i know how faithful and serious i was for so long and the the the the honest searching to
understand the bible um did did not lead me to um the same conclusion that d morris came to so i
i don't appreciate being um being told that i was never faithful or that i didn't i didn't
honestly seek or that i was i only left christianity because i wanted to drink with kip davis somebody
wrote to me so that's i mean but i just i think it's like yeah i'm and i'm not here to make money
either i don't know derrick you're you're more of a money man than i am yeah this is what i do for
living and it's obviously this is what i do is obviously i just do this today so you know it's uh
it's it's it's this is war video right yeah this is the stuff that gets imposed and constantly put
out there on people and i just want to mention maybe this person i know they say the bible doesn't
teach religion it teaches those who are called to worship and spirit and truth which automatically
takes me to the new testament his ways are not our ways which is old testament phrase theology but
probably used in the new testament but you make money just like the false church and what's really
interesting just to help our friend d morris pay attention to first Corinthians nine about the
apostle paul and the earlier apostles who were making money and had wives doing their work from
the churches that they were working with so unless you want to just say jesus was the only guy who
wasn't making any money because he says he doesn't have a head delays or he doesn't have a home to
lay his head in the apostles after him actually start making money from the churches and paul's
pissed because well hold on don't i have right as well i'm not asking for your money but he asks
for the money and he thanks them for the money so your very foundation of this text based on the
fact that a church making money or people who are in the church are making money doing what they're
doing really collapsed because the very foundation of this movement is dependent on the funds from
those members of that church making money doing it so i'm just following suit with the apostles
and making money for a living doing what i'm doing no different than them can i not do that uh
anyway my thoughts seeker thank you so much for that amen is that what you said amen seekers back
if ash i just said preach it brother i'm just learning from your teachers if ashura got
canceled during josea is there any evidence any at all for israelites viewing their dispersion
as vengeance for rejecting their indigenous polytheism
it i mean if i understand you right that you're asking whether um israelites view i mean if they
so yeah so i mean if you're if you're if what what you're asking is whether or not we see it in
the text of the bible then then i mean that's that's basically what we see is that the the entire
narrative and and what we see in the prophets the the exilic prophets that what they see is that
their their tendency towards polytheism is or it's not framed as polytheism it's their tendency
towards um worshiping other gods is what led them to destruction and what allowed god to to
give up on them and allow the babelonians to come and take them and the same i think the
question is saying the opposite though i think what they're asking is is there any evidence
at all that israelites were viewing their dispersion whether as syrian babelonian whatever
is as a vendent a vengeance almost from the pantheon because they rejected the indigenous
polytheism so like oh you know how we get the narrative that it's because you guys worshiped
all these other gods well just see just write in the chat real quick what you what you mean
because i think it may be though that means israelites so you're thinking the northern kingdom
so if you're thinking whether the northern kingdom so and this is this is definitely
something that's happening no myth vision is 100 correct okay there you go okay so
thinking that it's vengeance from the other gods and not from ya'll way right like it's almost like
you guys you rejected the old time religion which is poly or you know it's many gods i imagine people
probably did think that at some point i like it i mean i i i think it's a great counter narrative
but uh but i don't see it as the um i don't i don't see any evidence of that in the texts
i think
no i i mean i think that pretty straight across the board that's what they're what they are doing is
is interpreting is that god is has abandoned them and allowed the other gods to come in and
that and yeah and the other gods then represent the other people or like the babelonians can come
because they're because ya'll way leaves the people undefended and that's kind of the yeah
that's kind of the narrative that comes about but i like i like the thought of it i mean it's a
but it would you would have to find it in another text like that uh
yeah i don't know where i'd find it yeah that would be cool if you stumbled across something that was
like an inscription somewhere or something happened where they're like hey we're you forsook us
and you know the power of the queen of heaven plays a role and like what the heck were you doing
no wonder god scattered you or whatever but we don't obviously i haven't seen anything like that
that would be cool i think we caught up on the supers so good now it's the fun part and
getting you off for dinner but the way we're gonna do that is we're gonna stop the poll
number one 702 people voted vote you got three seconds to vote in the chat right now do you
think ya way had a wife named ashura yes no don't know and i'm gonna close the poll here in three
two one ending poll
and what is the verdict 59% of people say yes 26% say i don't know and then 13% said no okay
that's an interesting number that's pretty pretty we had a lot of voters on that yeah i mean i think
honestly i'd say i'm probably 50% 56% or whatever convinced that that ya way had a wife so
it's i'd say the other 44% is is is not sure just because i don't know whether the terminology
of wife or consort or anything like that really gives us anything so like i mean at the end of
the day like i think it's very clear ya way is is juxtaposed with a female deity whose name is ashura
in a number of the contexts and both in the temple and in text and whether or not then we call it a
wife or a a consort or a female counterpart or that ashura is just a female deity or whatever
like i don't know i mean i have no idea uh but i think it's uh it's it's worth having the discussion
i think so as well and i don't think that we're gonna deny the uh the existence of ashura
or wait wait wait i didn't mean that we can't deny the the the acknowledgement of her in the texts
and the the acknowledgement in the in the archaeological remains and stuff like that
thank you for that compliment brilliant beaches we appreciate it seriously thank you okay i've
tried to let everybody know the end is nigh and now your vote matters right we've done that but
i need you to subscribe to dr munger and we're about to refresh that and see how many subscribers
he has gotten or he has received since we started the stream i i left this not refreshed
from the beginning we may have had a few trickle in but 4.57 k is what we started at i'm sure many
of our viewers were already subscribed but let's see if we have really grown since then here we go
three two one
four point six four so i don't even know number wise how many is that
so we would have gone up um from like that means we got about like 80 70 or 80 new people
i think just during this i like it i like you and i know that it's going to grow since
like this stream we're going to be seeing that number change i want everyone to go check out
his website as well is there anything they can access through the website yet or is it not really
yeah so if you go up into the menu on the top sit on the left and just hit that first one
receptions in the bible um there i've so i'm putting up the stuff and you've got so this is
i mean those are the videos i've done so you can click click on that on one of them and it'll take
you in and it'll give you the the resources that are there and my plan is then to write stuff but
here's links to um different articles different translations things like that books that you could
buy that are about the topic and then my eventually when i when i get time i'm going to add like just
brief summaries of stuff so that you can kind of use that as a resource wow and yep and then
yeah so my yeah right now i've been doing the creation stuff so i did the enuma leash and
talked about the the garden of eden uh in the last video so the snake in in gilgamesh that steals
eternal life and comparing it with the with the eden narrative and now i'm gonna jump away from
genesis to look at a couple other creation things in my next two videos so i've got one come out this
weekend sometime i'm working on where we're gonna look at uh john one and the the word and see what
that's doing so we're going to be playing with some uh some some greek philosophy and things like
that and then i'm going to do a quick one on the book of jubilees and the rewriting of genesis
one in the book of jubilees which is the most fascinating thing and then then we're going to
plow on to other stuff so i'm looking forward to it and i hope we can have you back here sometime
in the not too distant future um help support us become a patron of what we're doing take a course
especially the most recent reading the gospels was one eye on greek poetry can you i mean look
dr monger your your specialties you know dead sea scrolls hebrew bible philological approaches
you can read multiple languages do you have an opinion about denis mcdonald's work and maybe we
can encourage some people to take the course i want to show them how nice it is while you
do that yeah so i you know i've i've known about denis's work from actually a lot longer than
i've known about you so this is i mean i i learned a lot of things from you for the first time but
denis mcdonald i actually known about because one of my colleagues here in norway has has been one
of denis's kind of staunchest opponents and has written a number of books kind of giving him the
a lot yeah give him a lot of criticism and and so i've i've read denis trying to kind of figure
out what's what's going on there and um i have to say like for for me denis uh he really speaks to
the i i agree a lot with his methodologies and i agree definitely with with some of his conclusions
his his way of saying that the bible was not so the new testament the gospels were not written
in a vacuum that was only the hebrew bible the hebrew scriptures but that they also
are participating in the world of greek literature is is extremely convincing and some of the
parallels that he has are are for me um yeah they're i i i i don't see how they can be explained
in any other way than knowledge of of the homeric episodes being woven into the the new testament
and so with you yeah admittedly some of those are weaker without a doubt he says so himself and he's
the guy who wants to obviously let people see it um but yeah there's there's so much here that i think
you can't sell even even i who i'm very sympathetic to it and and convinced he's
on to something here and there are certain things that i'm not sure if that is a connection
but there's some that i'm so confident in that i can't not see that as like the best explanation
for what we're looking at i agree 100 and and that's the and i mean and that's the that's the
work of a of a scholar like like denise mcdonald's he's he's one of the few people that is is skilled
in both the the classic uh homeric and classic greek texts and the new testament and so and you
have to be both to be able to point out the parallels uh like you can't you can't just be
somebody who's studied the new testament for 30 years and then reads homer once
but you you know and and so i understand that people that that are looking at it will be skeptical
but it's like it's methodologically very sound and i i think it it's just important to
um it's important to take things uh take things like that seriously um yeah so it's i would i would
this is the kind of thing i just wish when i when i was a student you know when i was first
starting out i wish this kind of thing that you're doing had existed so that i could get
access to these high quality scholars in a in a good easy format you know it's it's really amazing
yeah we didn't have even when i first started myth vision this kind of stuff was not out there
which what is what inspired me to use my imagination my creativity to try and bring it to the world
and look this is just lecture seven right i've been like teasing people just showing them one
through six there are 18 lectures in this series of course where he picks we almost did 22
by the time we started tapping out ourselves we were so exhausted we're like we're gonna have to
cut through these we're gonna have to skip these four and go with these and we chose the ones we
wanted to go with but like it's there's so many examples and stuff that he goes into his book on
and then we have deep conversations during the course but um there's reading recommendations
all sorts of stuff in comparison and this is just one course we have a quest for historical jesus
which is the history of new test in the scholarship with delcy allison jr we have ancient mystery
colt seven of them with m david litwa we have um obviously denis mcdonald we have a course on the
gospel of mark with james tabor all of that is at the mvp courses dot com and it's in our description
i'll put it in the chat in case someone is interested in signing up it helps the academics
so whatever course you take they are being helped financially by that course so you're supporting
the academics you love and want to see you know grow and and want to see them come back and want
to see them make appearances on youtube more because they want to promote their work like
your work on jubilees you don't want it to stay behind like a closed door you want other academics
engaging but how good does it feel when you get that positive feedback from youtube when someone
not the negative stuff i know that you know but the positive stuff how do you feel about that
oh no it's great and and i i you know obviously the the the reason i'm doing this now is because
i really do believe that that we need to be communicating scholarship in a way that is accessible
to everyone and and i i see more and more that people are interested and and want to engage with
scholarship want to know what's going on but there's less and less people signing up to study
things in the humanities and religious studies things like that because people need to get jobs
you know and and you it's hard in in the world we live in to put aside seven years to go do a
bachelor's and a master's and get everything out of the way like so we we need to be out there
sharing what scholarship is doing and and so i think that's like when people see that for what it is
and can can and and do that and give positive feedback it's amazing like it's uh that's that's
that's what that's what the whole point is for me dr monger i appreciate you coming on being candid
being very open transparent and teaching us the things you've learned and continue to do so is
there any final words you would say to someone out there maybe they're struggling or maybe they're
just needing to leave them with something maybe you got something on your gut that you want to
put out there before we let you go yeah i mean i don't know if you're if you're struggling you know
that's always just you know i think i think a lot more people that are close to you understand you
than you expect like that's the thing i've learned like i've i've been i've been amazed at the love
my family has poured out on me going public with my stuff um over the past the past few weeks since
we did our our live stream um of course there's a couple people that don't like it but you know
but i think like the the thing is if you wonder if you wonder about stuff ask questions if you're
if you're feeling scared talk about it uh if you have existential grief or fear
find someone you can talk to like it's not a problem but being open and being willing to
to work through questions um like for me was just being able to get to that point where i didn't
have any i don't have any existential fear anymore um because i i found good academic solutions to it
but you know some people will feel different but yeah but you know this is this is what we're here for
i appreciate you i really do and i hope that everybody keeps strong keep growing the community
you can help your scholars you can help us by liking by dropping a comment even after the stream
come back and let the algorithm know that we're you know being we're being paid attention to
so that they keep recommending this material and you can go and support um specifically support
some of the academics we have to have patreon member like options um you can support what we're
doing we have a patreon so those are options if you're available but if you can't you don't have
the financial needs and some people don't and i understand you can press that like button you
can share a comment or share it out on social media wherever let someone else see it um but if
you can't even do that because some people are in bad tough spots whether they're in a difficult
dangerous place in the world or family members and they're afraid of what that might be you can
like the content and you can drop comments create a an account under your like a different name right
so you can actually interact and enjoy being who you are um so there's options and i thank you for
your time dr monger yep thanks for having me on thank you and now we're going to exit the matrix
son do you want to know what the truth is after this there's no turning back you take the blue pill
and you wake up in your bed and believe whatever you want to you take the red pill and you stay in
wonderland and i show you just how deep the rabbit hole goes remember all i'm offering is the truth
nothing more
oh
Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh.
Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh,
