There are hundreds of videos that haven't been launched on YouTube, on Patreon. Make
sure you guys join the Patreon to help us grow. We are MythVision. Welcome back to
MythVision Podcast. We're going to be talking today about creation and the end of the world.
I'm your host, Eric Lambert, and I'm going to be having a good friend of mine join us
here. I expect to go into various topics. I know it will be quite an interesting roller
coaster, but when we think creation and the end of the world coming from an Abrahamic
religious view or Christianity, if you will, we think of God creating the earth in seven
days in the biblical narrative and the end is going to happen with fire. Well, that isn't
the only story that's out there. Today, I have my good friend, John F. White, with his
YouTube channel, Craig and Ford. Make sure you guys go subscribe, hit that bell on his
channel, get notified for everything that he does. He spends a lot of time in mythology,
in Nordic mythology, Celtic, Germanic, you name it, and other stuff, proto-Indo-European
topics, different studies of different mythologies, even down to the Greco-Romans, and finding
that there is a common trace that still exists, even down into the Greco-Roman stuff, that
is traced back into antiquity. Welcome to the channel, my friend.
Hello, Dirk. Thank you. Let me join Ms. Vision again.
Thank you. So it sounds like we're a little past time for Ragnarok to be taking place,
I suspect. Was there a doomsday, you know, did they think it was supposed to happen at
some point back in the day, or...? It could have happened multiple times. There are theories
that it happened well created again, it happened again, and it recycles. The world is in cycles,
so a lot of people think that. But, yeah, unlike maybe some Abrahamic theories, there's
no set date, there's no complex calculation you can do to try and work out whatever date
you want, which seems to be the case. The Abrahamic isn't for the end of the world.
It reminds me of the Aztec and some of the Native Americans, if I'm not mistaken, they
held to a cyclical view of, yeah. But also, I've even heard, and this is more on the
French theories, that some people, for example, in the New Testament, in the Jesus era, if
you will, he believed that the end of the age was about to happen. And they don't talk
like as in the end of everything, but it's the end of a certain age. And a lot of people
who are into Astro Theology or the studies of astrology, they believe that Jesus is kind
of a symbol, if you will, not a literal guy. And they would say, he is the Lamb of God.
He is Aries, Aries the Ram, putting an end of Aries and getting into the age of Pisces.
So there's this idea that the apocalypse, the end of Aries and the new age is upon them.
So it might fit. I don't know. It might fit into what you're saying.
So they're saying, based on stars, tens of thousands or millions of light years away,
based on where they are, determines what happens to this planet. What are you saying?
Just to make sure I'm sure.
I mean, just like astrology, that's all it is, is astrology. They believe that
you go far enough back, for example, they'll use the Abrahamic idea of Moses and the golden calf,
the golden bull, where they come out of Egypt and they're in the wilderness and Moses goes to
talk to God and he says, don't worship the golden calf, Aaron, his brother, and sure enough,
they worship and then he destroys them with the golden calf. Some are you and this is probably
French again, that the calf is actually representative of Taurus, the sign of Taurus,
and that the destruction of Taurus was moving them into Aries.
And some will argue like Abraham going to sacrifice his son on the mountain,
and then God replaces his son with a ram. That idea is like the Aries sign. This is totally
French probably, but either way. Okay, so like to Octonies, they call that, so
we sacrifice a bull for worship. So that's mythicism did a lot of that. So yeah, cows were quite
valuable and within false culture, the more valuable thing you sacrifice, the bigger the
sacrifice would mean to the God you're sacrificing to, and you would sacrifice to the God you wanted
to on the day. So if you wanted to go to war, you sacrifice to maybe Odin or Thor.
If you wanted to make love, you sacrifice to Thraia. If you wanted,
whatever you wanted, you sacrifice to the God that needed it. That's how they worked.
Although Thor was probably the middle class God to call it. So most men would worship.
Interesting.
Interesting.
The creation myths that you went into, let's talk about creation first because
you went into proto-Indo-European ideas and ancient stories about a cow being in the myth.
Is that also in the Nordic myth?
Yes. So a Thumbla is the name of the cow in the Nordic myth. And so you have this primordial
being that's created in Meir, which as I said means a twin. So it's neither man nor woman.
It's both. So it could in effect have sex with itself to create beans. And it created the Yutun,
which who are monstrous eating beans. They're sometimes called giants, but that isn't really
what they are. And then the cow who lick the ice created in effect a God or, and then the Yutuns
and the God got friendly. And there's a bit of a haziness in the descriptions we have.
But then after that, there was a whole load of gods and a whole load of giants. And then there
was a bit of a battle. And then there was definitely one giant and a few gods. That's sort of how the
the pantheon starts up proper. So that is the main God. So we hear about Oath in William B.
or brothers. But when they get, so what's interesting is when they get to earth, so
they kill the primordial being, which is a common mythogen in these Proto-Indo-European myths and
and all their descendants. They killed Meir created the world. And I think you said that
Yahweh has done that in some form kills a serpent. Yeah. So the credit board come down and Oath in
William V or Oath in Sonia and Luther create people from two trees, Aska and Ember, meaning
ash and Elm. So there that's, and that's held. So there's no garden, Eden, no man,
no woman doing something bad. But there is the trees in their narrative to treat lots of trees.
So trees are quite important. So you've got Yggdrasil, which is in effect, the world tree.
People and Yggdrasil actually means in effect, Odin's horse, which is quite interesting. So
it gets complicated. So people talk about Odin hanging himself from the Yggdrasil.
Are they talking about Odin hanging himself from a tree? Are they talking about him hanging
on his horse? So that's something goes on. And why is he associated with the horse?
So we can shoot off many ways here. So the horse, so you want to have a tree narrative,
it's connected to the horse narrative. And the horse narrative is probably connected to something
like the wild hunt, which is another myth we sort of touched on briefly, again, common throughout
Europe, because that the leader of the hunt, which was the person actually not leaving it behind it,
chasing the dead. There's a horse at one point, either a man eating a horse or a half horse,
half man, he developed. But the other side is you've got this big world tree. And in the Norse
thinking, people talk about different worlds, the nine worlds of the Norse. It's not really
worlds, it's realms, because they're all part of the world you're on. And to the north,
it's cold and to the east, it was hell like, had the sea around you and the sea was
held in by a fence and around that fence was the world serpent. So the myth guard serpent,
who eventually had a fight with Thor. It's the end of the world and we've only just started,
so we won't jump there just yet. And that's how it started. And then the gods came down
and they're sort of enjoying themselves playing games, you know, waving in gold and just enjoying
life. And then a few things happen. Okay, so we're getting to these details to see if there's
any links to the myths, you know. So what happens is the world tree has things happening in it,
within the tree. So at the top, there is a bird, an eagle. Although within the prose
Edda says there's also a falcon and some people visualize this as a falcon on an eagle. But
actually, it's just one bird. And they're just calling it different names. But there's one eagle
overlooking everything. Then within the tree, there were four stacks. They were there meant to be
roaming around chewing the branches. And there's also a squirrel, Rattatosk. Rattatosk is a
just spreads, is a gossip, basically. So the eagle sees the world and says things to
Rattatosk. And then we hear Rattatosk runs down the tree and at the bottom of the tree,
it's Nephoga. This is this gaily serpent who again was at the end of the world. He gnaws the roots
of the eagle. And Rattatosk comes down and tells him, oh, the eagle just said like, nasty, horrible,
slimy person. He doesn't like you. Nephoga would say, oh, Rattatosk, he's an evil, good for nothing,
lying bird. And Rattatosk will run up and down. And so these serpents, there are other serpents
right at the bottom of the roots, nor in the roots, you've got these stags eating the branches.
And so they had this perception that the eagle seal was already crumbling, was already being
eaten from within, holding the realms of the world together. And so it was due to fall apart.
Anyway, and you had to try and keep the world tree growing and healthy.
That's just a start of it. There we go. Yeah, I don't know if there's any,
the only, the only commonality between that and the Genesis one that I see,
and maybe Mesopotamian is the fact that there is, well, I don't even know if it's in the Mesopotamian,
but there's definitely the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. And then there's the Tree of
Life, but there's two trees in the garden. And Adam is the first man, but it is interesting.
We don't know if it seems like out of Adam, female is what comes from his side. Some say
he was split in half. Because a lot of times the God of the Hebrew Bible, when he makes a covenant
with his people like Abraham, he cuts the birds in half. He cuts the sacrifice, gets cut in half.
And so it's split in two. Whereas some say it's from his rib that Adam, from Adam's rib,
there's Eve, creates male and female. So the idea of them coming out of each other into two
is in there. And then you also have the serpent, which if you look at the story, it does appear
that the woman is near a tree. It appears, at least in your mind, because she's considering,
she's looking at it, it seems. It's almost like you play a picture like she's looking at the tree.
And then the serpent is saying to her, you know, why don't you have a bite, you know,
eat? And she says, I'm not even supposed to touch at all. I'm not even supposed to have anything
to do with this. And he says, yeah, but why? You know, pretty much like poking at the girl. And
she says, well, we'll die. If I eat of the tree, you know, I'm going to die. And he says, no,
you know, that's not true. God knows that the day you eat of the fruit, you'll become like a God,
and you'll know good and evil. That's why he doesn't want you to eat it. He doesn't
want you to know better. He doesn't want you to know things like gods do. And in Genesis,
it's interesting because in the language, it's plural, as though it sounds like many gods are
creating man and female. Like it's like God says, he says something like this, God says,
let us make man in our image. And a lot of people like Dr. Price and others, and even
Dr. Richard Carrier will tell you, you know, the critical scholars will point out,
this doesn't sound like one God, like monotheism. It sounds like maybe he no theism where there's a
supreme God above all gods, but he's commanding the other gods and saying, all right, now we're
going to create man in our image, like, like the gods, but there's one supreme. And later on,
you get the story in the Old Testament, Hebrew Bible, where, well, there's only one God and God
alone, but really often in the Old Testament or Hebrew Bible, I refer back and forth in case
a Jew's watching, it sounds like he's the God of gods, like there are other gods, but he's the
supreme one. I'm rabbitron, but I just figured I'd tell you that because, okay, that's interesting.
Okay, so I haven't thought about this, but this this is just enlightened me anyway. So
all the gods are down in the garden, you know, they have their fields, their lush fields,
and then they're visited by three gnomes. Okay, and gnomes are witches, what a bit word, who know
the fates. And so when you're born, what they do is they carve your fate onto the roots of the
Yggdrasil, it touches the world. And then so the way you see it is that the old gnomes would say
their lives are fated. So it doesn't matter if they go into battle, they were going to die,
they were going to die, they were going to live, they were going to live. And that's a really
key bit of psychology and how things and how they approach their life. I mean, there's,
there's no point sitting at home. Because if you're going to die, you're going to die, and if
you're going to live, you're going to live. So you might as well be in battle, you know,
to doing something good. And so these gnomes, you understood fate.
Quite important. That's to me, that's a bit like the snake in the apple, there's a bit of
similar myth there, you know, they have the knowledge of your future. And the snake is
through the apple, I guess, is giving knowledge to Eve and then to Adam.
Yeah, most, most people that are believers will say, no, that the snake's a liar.
The snake is wrong. And the snake is, is, is bad. Because you have one of two options.
God either lies, all right, and he's hiding something from man. Or God tells the truth,
and the serpent is a liar. But when they ate the fruit, because it was the woman with, with the man,
it says, ate the fruit, and their eyes were opened, it says. And they knew good and evil.
And so when that happened, the interesting part about this narrative is that God would come down,
the God, the main God of the story, would come down with Adam in the garden. And it says he'd
walk with Adam in the cool of the day, like he would walk with him. Well, this, it's almost like
one day God comes down to walk with Adam and he can't find him. Where are you? And Adam says,
you know, I'm hiding, I'm naked. Who told you that you were naked? You know? And he says, well,
the woman that you gave started blaming, you know, the woman that you gave me, and then
the woman blames the serpent. And it's almost like all three of them are standing before the God,
getting judged. The woman, he curses the man all the day of your life that you work. You'll
sweat from the brow. You're going to have thorns and thistles will be produced from the ground.
It's going to be hard for you to labor. And you can tell there's agriculture here and there's
gardening because he's like, you're going to have to, it's going to be hard work and you're going to
be really busting your hump and working all day to provide. The woman, he says, you're going to be
giving childbirth in pain. Almost like they, it's almost ties into the snake narrative because a lot
of scholarship wants to say that the snake eating of the fruit concept was actually the act of sex.
Yeah, so that, yeah. I heard that before. Lots of red in the snake eyes and yeah.
Yeah. And I don't know, it's hard for me to pin down, but her giving birth in pain and then the
serpent will eat dust. The serpent will be on its belly, eat dust all the days of its life,
but that the woman's hill will crush the serpent's head. And I wondered if it will,
the serpent will bruise the hill of the woman. It made me think of Achilles because Achilles hill,
but I might be stretching. I don't know. That's a passion. I think that's, yeah, that's a sacrifice
for the good thing. That's like Cinderella. We can talk about fairy tales as well in a bit
because there's a lot of myth in those that relates to that. So, well, so the other question I've got
then is how do we know genesis happened like that? That may seem an odd question. So in Norse myth,
we know the creation myth because Odin wanted to find knowledge. So he went to, in effect,
towards hell to find a body of an ancient seeress, an ancient sorceress, all which probably think
of it as. And he rose her from the dead and spoke to her. And because she was alive at the beginning,
she was able to tell him all these things. And that's how he knew about the beginning
of the world and how the cosmos was created because she was there seeing it. Yeah, she was
quite there. But yeah, she was there. So, and that's how we get to know that there's the story
of this creation. So is there such a thing in genesis or is it just assumed that someone was
around to see the world created and the garden created? There's a couple of different theories.
The believers want to act like Moses was told the story by God on the mountain at Sinai. So
when Moses was getting the law from God, God told him these things. And this is just tradition.
It's not like in the text saying this, oh, and Moses, in case you were wondering, all this
Genesis stuff was, no, because Dr. Price and other people, like, for example, have pointed out,
and I always refer to him to interview him the most. But like, he always constantly quotes
the other scholars too, and he knows their names and such, but that Genesis wasn't written by the
same authors who wrote, you know, Exodus and other books and things. And we know that this
from a different source. There's also this thing called the documentary hypothesis. And there's
good reason to think there's the priestly source and there's other parts of this text that weren't
together. Even the creation story wasn't two parts. Yeah, right. It's not one. So to say that
some how do we know because someone told us about it later, there's nowhere in the story.
Yeah, that's a weak spot. You say, I think the doors done quite well to create this
story. And what's interesting about this story is that
why the nice world stopped was because Odin basically did so the utens, these monstrous people,
tried to break into the home of the gods, and they destroyed the walls. And this is all partly to
do with Loki. And to try and repair it, they made a deal with the gods, the gods made a deal with
the utens, but I didn't want to pay that deal because it was a bad deal. So Odin threw his spear,
kills one of them, and the war breaks out proper. Okay, so the person he kills with a spear,
there's some debate about this. To me, I think it's actually the syres who he raises from the dead
to find out the beginning of the world. And you can infer that from some of the language in the
script. And there'll be different people thinking different things. But to me, that makes sense
because the way she talks, you can almost infer she's blaming Odin for her being dead in the ground.
Because it was you who threw the spear, Odin, that killed me.
She almost says that I infer that. And that's quite interesting.
So let me get this straight, if you don't mind, Odin resurrects her from the dead in order to
find out about the beginning. Now, also the end, because she tells the story of the beginning,
and then she tells him what happens at Ragnarok. And that's how he finds out about Ragnarok.
Ah, okay. Let me ask you this. Historically, two questions. Historically speaking, when this
legend, this legend of Odin resurrected, does this come later in the narrative? Or we can't
tell whether or not? It's the first book in the Poetic Edda. And so the Poetic Edda is a book
written by Christian monks, slightly after the prose edda was written by Snorri Sturluson.
And it is the first poem in that book. So we can infer from that, it's probably the most
important of the Norse poems, because it is the creation and end of World Myth. If you were
going to tell a story to someone that would be who is new to your culture, that would be the first
story. Okay, so then my next question would be about the Genesis creation of this myth, the
beginning of the story. Was Odin there at the beginning? No. So at the beginning,
so the actual wording is it was cold and there was heat. Okay, and there was actually,
and this cold and heat came together and created a mist. And out of the mist
created Emyr, this giant cow and some ice. But it also talks about some other realms being created
at the same time, and the mist falling down to these realms and their poisonous realms. And
they talk about there's a god or a being, Sertir, who is a fiery being who sits on the fiery world
as part of the hot and cold. And you've got Niflheim, which is for ice giants. So that starts
and then Emyr, as I say, rubbed his legs together and creates some beings. The cow licks some ice.
Don't ask me where these cow comes from, just turns up. Licks some ice. They
have a party. It should do as you're flying through the cosmos. And boom, Odin, William V,
are the sons of the first god, like the brothers. And they're the ones who then
go on to create the people killed with Emyr. Where's the tree at in all of this?
So the tree doesn't, it basically grows from a seed in effect, but it isn't very clear on
where it's planted. It's just like it grows the cosmos. You can appreciate it's not like a real
tree in the world. But they talk about its roots quite a lot. The roots go down to the
underground realms, like to hell. So it's just a concept rather than a real tree.
And is that in the creation story too?
So it's a lot of the creation stories in the prose edda, written by Snorri Sturluson, who
was a Christian who could have editorial freedom on making up what he wanted.
Different lusper, which is the first poem in the poetic edda, where the poems are written,
which are more likely to be accurate. It's quite brief on, because it's a poem,
still quite long, on what actually happens. So you missed that.
Yeah, I don't know. I don't know if there's any connection to the only thing I think that
might be connected is when we start talking about the killing of, and this isn't in the
Genesis necessarily, the Genesis account, but the killing of Leviathan that we were talking
about off air when I read you from Job. I think it was Job 41. I read most that chapter,
where it's clear that Yahweh was trying to flex on Job. He was saying, look, can you hook
Leviathan? Can you play with him like a bird? Like this beast of a dragon type thing. And it is
like a dragon, because as much as people want to make Leviathan become this alligator or something
else, he's breathing fire. It's just like, I'm sorry, but he's kindling coals with his breath.
Okay. You're telling me that they didn't have an imagination then? Like everyone wants to
naturalize these books. They want to make them, they want to make sure that this doesn't get too
hocus pocus. They want this book to fit reality in the literal sense. And it's like, you know,
they don't understand that I think these humans had just as much of an imagination as we do today.
And so, yeah, he creates the world from the carcass of that dragon in that motif.
That's what's odd about that is that creation of the world motif is one thing, but the fighting
the dragon in the way he does is more the dragon fighting motif. It's the storm gods do in the
other religions from Vedic culture and Proto-Indo-European and all culture. So it's like it's combined
best of two worlds into one myth. I mean, that's a high level view from what you're telling me.
I'm sure there's research done on it, but it's like a merger of myths there.
It wouldn't surprise me.
Yeah, that makes sense. Now, what's interesting is the next thing that happens. Okay.
This isn't explained in the creation myth or the Vullespa. When the gods and the giants or the
yutans fight, it's a no-win situation. Everybody's going to die. No one's going to. So they create
peace. They decide, okay. And what they all do, and it's quite interesting, is they spit into a jar.
Okay. Now, until I actually researched this, I didn't understand why would you do that.
That spitting, spittle charms and your saliva charms, they call them. It was actually quite
a popular thing. Even in Jesus, you spit to cure people. A miracle sometimes. You spit on your
hand to shake a deal. So what they were doing is all the gods and all the yutans spat into a jar.
And from that spit, they created a man. And because that man contained spit from everyone,
he was the most knowledgeable man ever to exist. Kvasiel, I think his name was. And Kvasiel means
something like that or something of all sort of knowledge. And he became a really powerful
knowledgeable man. And he would know the answers to everything. Okay. So, and he was used to solve
a few sort of bits on the way of the journey through Dwarf's culture. But he eventually got
kidnapped by a couple of Dwarves. Because, so, which sort of skips a bit, because the Norns,
who turned up, because he got carried away, they asked the gods to create some Dwarves.
And no one really knows what Dwarves are, apart from they probably live in rocks or underground
and are very good craftsmen. But Dwarves might be the same as elves in Norse mythology. But they
also have elves, but they may be the same. Because the thing is, in poetry, you want words to rhyme.
So, sometimes the Norse used different words for the same thing. So, it would follow the meter of
the poem. And so, we can't quite tell the difference between an elf, a dark elf and a dwarf. But they're
all in there. And anybody watches Jarrah Tolkien, see this? In fact, there's a list of Dwarves' names
in the Voluspa poem, a whole couple of pages of names. And they're all characters from Lord of
the Rings and the Hobbit that Jarrah Tolkien has literally picked up, like ganged elves in there
and Thor, you know, things like that. So, that's where he gets his names from. So, yeah, so, Dwarves
kidnapped Kavassir and they chop him up and make him, and this is where he gets into Mead. They
take his blood, make it into a drink. And if you drink the drink, you become very knowledgeable.
That drink is called the Mead of Poetry. That's quite significant because it seems to align
very closely to Soma in the Vedic culture. They have a drink that you drink. And that drink is
actually more like Mead with, go on to this, don't do it, Mead with mushrooms in it, in effect.
If you drink it, it made you high. And it put you in another state of mind.
This is really interesting because I am trying to get the author of the book,
what is immortality key? The immortality key, I think it is, by Brian Murrescu, if I'm pronouncing
that correct. Murrescu is pretty much, you know, how it goes. Let me pull this up here because
he, the immortality key, Brian C. Murrescu, and in this, he actually goes in to try and argue in
this that, in the Greek, the Greeks had the same thing you're talking about here. They had a special
drink that you would participate in and it was really, really interesting to hear him say this,
but he believed that the early church, one of the early church fathers talks about the love
feast, the term for love feast, using that for the Eucharist. And, you know, I don't know how
true this is, but his argument is that the Eucharist meal that they would drink and eat
in the first century Christians was this, if you will, mystery school consumption of the deity,
which we know that Jesus was saying, eat of my flesh, drink of my blood, the Gospel of John.
That's definitely not a Jewish thing. That is definitely not something that the Hebrew Bible
would condone at all. And of course, in John, the Gospel of John, the latest of them,
not in the synoptics, he goes all the way. The author goes all the way in making sure you know
that he's talking about his flesh and his blood. Well, Dennis R. McDonald, the scholar that I
talked about on the live and that I interview all the time, in his connections, he shows John,
the Gospel of John, is borrowing from Euripides the Bacchai Dionysus as another God. And in the
mythology of Dionysus, when the, what was the name of the big gods, they ate him. They
crushed him in their teeth. The Titans. Yes, the Titans. And they ground him up and they ate his
flesh and his blood in the narrative. And so there was this tradition to eat and drink the blood of
Dionysus. Well, Jesus comes on and does the same thing. So I wonder if we go back far enough
if these traditions become one or come from the same source, you know what I mean? Yeah, they do,
because if the Vedic are doing it, so it's gone to India, and to get to India, it must have gone
through Iran and Persia, and Germany has got it, and the Nordic have got it, and the Greeks have
got it, and the Romans have got it. Guess where it's to come from? The Proto-Indo-Europeans.
And the reason it's come from them, and this may sort of help, I would say disprove the Stone
Date theory a bit, is that these mushrooms grow on or particularly found on cowpats.
So where cows poo, they tend to find lots of mushrooms. And what did the humans start to do
about six, seven thousand years ago, a thousand years ago? They were farming. They got the cows.
And what would be, what would be a secondary or byproduct of it? Mushrooms.
I have a hard time not thinking there's some role in psychedelics, for sure. I mean, whatever.
Absolutely. That's, that's so, I would love to say to speak to Dr. Robert about the Odin hanging.
So to me, that part, so Odin knows about Ragnarok, okay, and he has to go away and find out boy,
once boy, once magic, and it talks about him hanging from the tree. Okay, now some people
who are, who know a lot about Christianity and hear a bit of Norse myth think, oh, that's very
similar to Christ hanging across. But actually, if you read the Norse stanzas in the Hovhamal,
which is where this is from, actually says that Odin goes without food and drink, and he screams,
and he looks down, and he's actually, in effect, fasting. He's going through a ritual process of
like how people about the Sami culture, this Shai-milism. I wouldn't necessarily go that far,
but it's an element to that, where he's actually going through a process in his mind
on psychedelics to try and find the answers to, to this magic. And that's where he gets the magic
of the runes from doing that. Well, that's, that's my interpretation. So I heard Dr. Price say, and
I got that video, it's on my Patreon, he pretty much thinks that there's the idea, and I don't know
how true it is, that Christians influenced these, these Nordic writings later. You know what I mean?
Yeah, well, okay. Yeah, because I authored the manuscripts, like the Pratikedda and the Prosedda,
there's that influence. But the poems themselves, because we think they're more true, I said,
I'd love to have a chat with him. We believe writings there are probably actually quite authentic,
and the stories are pre-Christian, some of them. That, that is interesting, though, that you talked
about him hanging on the tree, not eating and not drinking, because there, and this may not
be a connection, I'm just throwing it out there, we know Jesus fasted for 40 days and 49s, but
so did Moses for 40 days and 49s, and almost like this wilderness experience, they both go
through this wilderness testing experience. And, and then what's interesting in the Jesus narrative
is that while he's in this 40 day, 49 experience, the devil, Satan, comes to tempt him
and test him during this time through this phase. You know, it just, it just makes you wonder, like,
what is this trying to, what's this mean, what's it trying to say, you know, can we quite understand
it, I don't know. It's, to me, it's a standard, I'll say standard, it's probably a word to call it,
but when you go through this process of consuming this need of poetry or this, I'm all this,
people go through a very similar experience, so it's not surprising, you know, they, all of them
don't feel hungry, thirsty, and they all, you know, imagine these things. So to me, it's just a common
thing, but to digress a bit on the stoned ape theory, if the mushrooms tend to grow on manure,
then there'd be a plentiful source of food for the apes, and they wouldn't have to worry about
eating the mushrooms, because you've got the cows there, or the cows. So to me, there's just a,
you know, that would be my basic thought on, on inferring that that's the stoned apes theory,
isn't a major influence in the evolution of thermosapien. I don't know if it's only that,
but, but the idea that they're just hypothesizing that the ape comes down, it's flipping over
cow patties, and it's eating of the mushrooms, but there are plenty of plants that have psychedelic
effect, you know, some type of dimethyl tryptamine or something in it that's going to make you trip.
Would it be beneficial to live in? It wouldn't be beneficial
for someone to be in that state of mind, or an animal to be in that state of mind?
Well, that's why they're saying, I suspect micro dosing is what they think they're doing.
They're not like consuming as much as possible. They're taking a little bit out of time just,
and it just makes the brain, okay, possibly possibly, because they're talking about the
jump from of Homo sapiens 70,000 years ago to leave Africa and the speech happened just before
that there was a change in how we talked. And they thought all that was a change. Who knows
whether that was affected by taking anything or just a genetic change? Who knows? But yeah,
these things do happen. I can't deny that. It makes me wonder, man. Yeah, I don't know, because
I mean, it's like this, it's like someone might try to disagree with this, and I get it, that's fine.
But you know, why are we drawn to wine? Why is the human civilization so drawn to an effect
that we gain from drinking a substance called wine or beer or alcohol in any way? We do the same
thing. There's an effect that we get and we enjoy the effect. Well, to act like ancients couldn't
have enjoyed the ingestion of plants or mushrooms of some sort to enjoy the effect or even beyond
that. Not just did they enjoy it the same way we enjoy beer or wine or alcohol or any other chemical
that we ingest. It's, it was a pathway to another dimension for them in a way. They got to meet
the gods. They didn't just got to talk about them. They got to see them. They got to experience
I know from tripping before. So I've seen some things, you know, while I've tripped. So
I'm not here. This is not a promotion of doing these things. I'm just saying
your mind will really, you know, take you to another place. And I wonder if, and that was me
consuming a lot. I consumed enough to escape reality. Whereas if you're micro dosing, they say
there are some advantages to micro dosing on mushrooms and things like that. I heard
certainly anti-depressant wise. That's been talked about. I've seen that. But yes, so that's,
so the meat of poetry and soma and this psychobin type liquid is drunk from the proto-european
onwards. Definitely. It may be early European farmers. So 8,000 years ago easily. So that's
quite interesting. So this was obviously a very powerful liquid and the gods didn't want the
dwarves to own this. Now the gods wanted the power, not the dwarves. So they then follows an elaborate
story of how Odin gets this meat of poetry, which basically involves him turning into
someone else, convincing all the workers of the of a giant managed to get the meat of poetry off
the dwarves and get off the giant. He basically kills all the giant's helpers, becomes the help
of the giant himself. And through that, then manages to get to the giant's friend who actually has
the meat goes there. But he's the giant's daughter's looking after it. And so Odin sits on her golden
throne. She is a metaphor for marrying her, let's say, for a few days. She trusts him and then he
changes into an eagle flies off with the meat of poetry. The giant who owned it changes into an
eagle follows him. And just as Odin gets to the gods with the meat of poetry in his chest, because
he's drunk already spit it all out, he drops a little and it lands on man's farmland, man's ground.
That's why man has a little knowledge and Odin spits the rest of it onto the guards and they've
got all the knowledge. Interesting. And that's how does that's the apple story in effect.
That's what I was going to say. Yeah, they ate one fruit, and then they get kicked out of the
garden and he doesn't want them to eat of the tree of the knowledge of good or the tree of life,
I'm sorry. He says kick them out because if they eat of the tree of life, they'll live forever.
So yeah, I want the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. I mean, it's a knowledge tree. It's
common sense to me that this is, but there's also the idea of immortality that plays a huge role
in the narrative of Genesis, as well as the narrative that it's borrowing from in the Epic
of Gilgamesh or the Enuma Elish. I mean, so yeah, the idea is he goes and swims down to get the plant
after trying to find the plant that will make him live forever. And when he comes back up after
working so hard, he had to rest because he was so tired from having to swim so far down to the
bottom of the sea to get it. And when he comes up, he goes to sleep and he wakes up, the plant's
gone and the plant was stolen by a serpent. Yeah. So yes, so we have apples. There are other apple
stories that Eden. So Iden is a goddess who's in charge of youthfulness. Who? Iden, I think her name
is IDN. I think it's like IDUN. And so she has these golden apples, which allow the gods to stay
youthful. And so if she's ever kidnapped, all the gods get old. That's another story. So Loki gets
such restricts, she ends up getting kidnapped because of his errors, and he does so today. So
Loki is this person who tends to cause problems, but also fix them. So we have this golden apple
creates youthfulness within the Nordic sort of culture. So again, that may relate a little bit
to that story of the true of life. Yeah, I definitely know that when they got kicked out of the garden,
they obviously they go on to live for a certain amount of time. It was a long time, but they die.
And their lives are longer than obviously they have very long genealogies, the oldest known
genealogies like 969 years, Methuselah. But we have good reason to think this comes from the
Babylonian king list. The Babylonian king list had certain kings that live thousands of years. And
we have good reason to think that this is being utilized from that in the genealogy.
And there's there's some good reason I got a good buddy of mine, Russell Gamirkin. I'm going to be
interviewing him coming up next week, where he has a theory that the the Old Testament is much
newer than you think. It might be like 2nd, 3rd century BC. Not as old as you think. It might
be borrowing from stories that that are in literature that are probably around that are older. But
he believes it was created around that time. And he uses this theory talking about a man named
Borosis, who was a Babylonian priest in the 3rd century, I think 2nd, 3rd century, 3rd century,
4th century, something like that, BC. But Borosis actually was a priest and he knew how to read
Greek, but also knew how to read the Sumerian. And he pretty much needed to translate the Sumerian
epics and whatnot into Greek for everyone in the Alexandrian library, you know, and all the people
in, if you will, in Hellenized Greek times to be able to read the Sumerian stories. So he translates
it. But he also, there's the idea that there's a lot of literature being used from Borosis. And
then there's Menetho. Menetho was an Egyptian priest who's borrowing, trying to, if you will,
translate his Egyptian stories and text into Greek for the Greeks to understand the Egyptian narrative.
And out of Menetho's writings, he mentions strange things like about Moses and stuff that,
like, why are you talking about Moses? And the ideas that Jewish priests and scribes took these
combination of ideas from the Babylonian and the Egyptian and whatnot and created their own
narratives in the Bible that we see today. So I don't know if there's anything else being borrowed,
but I know that there's borrowing going on.
And that would explain why I can't connect the Abrahamic religion directly to
Prodigy Europeans, because it's not only gone through Mesopotamia and the Sumerian and
Assyrians, but you've also got this Egyptian flavor thrown in, which, you know, and that
changed things quite dramatically. That would make sense. Why isn't so clear cut? Yes.
Yeah, it's definitely not clear cut because you have, in the Bible's narrative, the Tower of Babel,
where everyone was of one tongue, and then, you know, they are trying to reach heaven and
that God strike them down and say no. And they all start speaking and he confuses them with
different tongues. Is there anything like that in the? No, no. So as the culture matures,
find that the underlying narrative of Nordic culture, which is pretty much war and survival
takes over. You get stories like that. So they're more interested in, you know, how strong they are
and so we got. So reputation is everything in Norse. Okay. So there's a story. I've got his name
and you know, it's not yours, but there's a sort of one particular Viking raider goes raiding and
he comes across this farmland. Okay. And he goes to raid it. And what you mustn't do in
Norse culture is take without saying you've taken something because that's stealing. You can take
something, but you have to go to the person. I've just taken your stuff. What are you going to do
about it? Again, you can't just kill someone. It's bad. You have to say I want to fight you
and you have a fire and if you kill him, that's fine. So this chap, Egyo, I think it is, he finds
his farm and with his friends, they raid it and then they get captured by the farmer. Okay.
They'll get tied up in a barn and the farmer, his friends all party all night saying, yeah,
we call the Vikings, we call the Vikings. Well, Egyo managed to escape and he gets his friends
untied and they take all the farmer's possessions and run off with them in the middle of the night.
And he goes, no, stop, stop. We've just stolen stuff without telling the farmer we've taken it.
So what he does as an old Norse Viking, he says, I'm going to go back and tell the farmer
and all his friends go, no, don't do that stuff. You don't want to do that. But no, he goes back
to the farmhouse. He knocks on the door. He sets the roof alight out of this farmhouse and everybody
tries to run out and he goes, I'm you, Jill, I've stolen your stuff. And now I'm kidding you and
chops people up as they run out of the house. Basically, the house collapses and he walks back
to his friends and yeah, sorted them out. That's how you get a good reputation for being a Viking
and old Norse. That's pretty tough, man. Yeah, that's pretty tough. So that's the
narrative they had. They liked those kind of stories. They weren't necessarily worried about
different cultures and people talking and things like that. It was it was more about
because it's quite a later narrative. What we hear the stories tend to feel like they were
written later on. So probably second half of the first millennia, which feels like a lot of these
narratives actually came together. And that's when there was a lot that's when Viking raiding
started to happen. Iceland was eventually found and populated. Yeah, I think being it makes a lot
of sense why they would have a myth and this is just me completely just making an opinion here.
Why they would have a myth of all the different languages during a Hellenistic time with why is
everybody speaking different tongues, you know, and you definitely have Alexander the Great trying to
Hellenize many people to speaking one language. But it could explain it's a mythology trying to
explain why everyone speaks different languages. But the building that they're saying they're
building the heaven is very much like a ziggurat and the Babylonians had a ziggurat. And so that's
where a lot of people say, hey, this early Genesis account is actually Babylonian in nature. But
then when you get into Moses and Exodus and stuff, you find like Moses's name is a Egyptian name.
Yes, some people I think have associated with it.
Yeah, some people associated with Ramesses, but you know, it is the story itself takes place in
Egypt. Exactly. Yeah, so it's like you have Babylon, you have Egypt, you know, and you kind of have
to wonder like, is Russell Gamer can correct in his trying to figure out was this created in the
Alexandrian library later in time? There's no telling. But I do enjoy this whole conversation
on the Genesis. We haven't really, excuse me, we haven't really spent much time on the end.
What is Ragnarok? What does that mean? What is it? You know, the Christian worldview,
I suspect to an idea that the end is going to end in fire and all that. So
so there's no particular cause for Ragnarok. You know, something bad doesn't happen that makes
the gods angry. That isn't what happens. It's basically part of it to do with Fenrir. So Fenrir
is Loki's child and he's a big wolf. And his jaws are so big that his bottom of his jaw touches
the ground. And the top of his mouth touches the sky. He's got a big mouth. So it's a big,
big old wolf. And it just talks up one day, he would escape and eat people and kill people. So
this happens. There's a cockerel that crows in hell. And that cockerel is actually a name of fire.
And there's some association with this fire cockerel growing, but that signals the start.
Then Loki appears on a ship made of fingernails, without the creatures by his side,
heading towards the gods. And this whole talk that Sertir comes along, Sertir is the,
is flaming hot being type God who was there at the beginning of the cosmos. And he's there to
put an end to it all. So when everybody, basically everybody kills everybody else. There's a few
gods left. Sertir burns everything. And then there's winter for three years, I think it's.
And then, then it goes back to peace and harmony. And then there's Nithogar,
who was chidnawing at the roots of the Yggdrasil in the Velospir anyway, says that he then flies over
valleys with bodies made of wings, always wings made of bodies. And that's all for you here in
the world and the cycle. And that starts again. So I've heard some numbers that parallel Ragnarok
in the Bible, actually. Let me see. How do you spell Ragnarok? Okay, Ragnarok.
And Genesis, if I'm not mistaken, there is a definite supposed connection, at least
numerically speaking, there's some common numbers. You find this really strange. I'll have to get it
up with you. I really would like to show you some of the comparisons. Yeah, there's some numbers that
kind of compare in between these mythologies, because isn't there a certain amount of people
that are supposed to go in Ragnarok? There's Valhalla. So Valhalla is this sort of an
anger-sized version. So back in the 18th, 19th century, scholars put an A at the end of most
words. So Valhalla became Valhalla. And that's a place where once Odin found out about Ragnarok
through the dead which he raised, she said this had a well started, this has got to end,
because she had prophecy. He thought I'd create an army. And he sort of made a deal with Hel,
and Hel was Loki's daughter who ran the underworld. Look at it as, and the deal was that
after a battle, Odin would get 50% of the dead. So what that would normally mean, that if you
have a battle and half the people died, or some people died, they would probably be the weak people.
So why would you want an army of weak people? Well, Odin was known to manipulate battles
to get the best people, so the best one. In fact, he found heroes through various myths,
you hear these stories, there's a hero, and Odin makes him become stronger and better,
and then makes him die. So he gets him into Valhalla. And Valhalla could only hold a certain
number of people. And that may be the numbers you're talking about. Yeah, I think there's so
432. There's number of doors in Valhalla. So the whole has 432 doors, I think is.
Yeah, I'm reading here, it says there are a number of reasons why this number is interesting.
So keep on reading. First of all, we have a similar account of a troop tally in the first
lay of Helgi Hondingsbanna, Helgi's hunting, in which the hero states that there are 1200 trusty men,
though in Hatuna, in that funny 1200, 1200, that's just 12, you know, the number 12 with
zeros added to it. Twice as many, stanza 25. Let us do this calculation twice, like we did above,
but this time we shall start with numbers of face value. Maybe they're adding, they're doing stuff
that I'm not familiar with, but I did hear 432,000 in saying on this webpage, there's an
Indo-European connection, but 432 is interesting. Yeah, there's some significance, man. There's a
numerological significance. They did a lot of this with numbers, like in the Epic of Gilgamesh,
the dimensions that he creates, the arc, because it's a cube, the face value when you
calculate it, I can't remember exactly how you do the calculations, but my buddy at Sacred
Geometry Decoded, the YouTube channel, he talks about the stuff, it calculates to 144,000,
and if you go to the book of Revelation, the Apocalypse of John, the last book in the New
Testament, he talks about only 144,000 inter into the New Jerusalem, and then you can look at the
cube, the New Jerusalem that is a cube, and its dimensions and find the significance of 144 as
well. So there's some type of connection here on what they're doing numerically. Yeah, maybe.
That's interesting. So yes, that's where the numbers are. So there's this army, which obviously
didn't win Magnuok, the Serpent came along, but yes, that's it. So it's, and yeah, it just talks
about the underworld and the world recycles. That was just an important concept. So it wasn't,
it didn't get just when you're rebooked someone.
Reincarnated? Reincarnated, it wasn't that. You didn't get that, but the world just restarted and
people lived again, it's been recycled. And I reckon what could still happen, you know, and it
could happen every thousand years or a million years. Well, it's weird because if you take
Revelation, which is highly symbolic in many ways, the book of Revelation, the New Jerusalem
comes down out of heaven, and it seems like it comes down out of heaven to earth. So once all
the chaos and the crazy and the fire and the fighting and the death and all the four horsemen come,
you know, and they destroy, then it's almost like, all right, now the heaven, the New Heavens
and New Earth, the New Jerusalem comes down to earth, and it's supposed to be blissful again,
or it's almost like another garden. Because at the end of Revelation, it talks about
a garden. But I was going to say something, you mentioned in your tree of the Genesis,
there were four, what was, what was they, birds or something?
Norns, women, witches. Yeah, but you were talking about something else before that.
Oh, there's four stags. Eagle, four stags, four male deer, I think.
Okay, because there's no four stags in the Genesis account, but there is four rivers
that come out of the garden. Right, so we have rivers running from the roots of the Yggdrasil
to Diffelheim and other places into hell. So they talk about those and a maelstrom
in one of them, poisonous mist. So they talk about that sort of effect as well.
It's interesting because in the garden, it says there's one, like one river, but out of that river,
shoot four different rivers, if you want. And people have used that to try and work out where
Eden was. I've thought that somewhere. They've come up with some various theories. Obviously.
I just don't know if there's a connection between the four stags, but it's not literary
in any literal sense, but the number four, I don't, dude, I could be really stretching.
I don't know. I mean, there's a standard on to humans to understand the things they didn't
understand. And that's where the stories come from. So you didn't understand why rivers flowed.
Didn't understand why mountains were so tall or the moon did what it did.
Make up these stories to explain why they did them. That's all that's happening today.
Interesting. So what happens when we die?
So if you don't go to Valhole, most of you will go to hell. And hell is not your hell,
though, a different hell. Not the hell stolen from the Persians. I think it was that the
Abrahamics got these. It's a different hell, but it's Loki's daughter, who's hell. And that's
her name, H.E.L. And she's described as being sort of really bluey, half dead color, sort of
imagine a decomposing corpse. It's almost that sort of color you'd imagine ahead.
And people go there. And what happens sometimes is that when people go to hell, you can still go
to hell and visit them. So hell was a place that you thought you could go to hunt very north and
very underground. And there were gates to hell, gates so you had to pass. I think it was seven.
I'd just been making up for this. But yeah, you went there. And so Odin had to go
to hell to resurrect the C.R.S. But but yeah, other people who died. There's a famous story of
Sigath, who's a, is in lots of Nordic myths as a sort of a hero character. That's amazing stuff.
And H.E.L.D. is his girlfriend. They didn't actually get a very complicated story. They
should have got married, but they didn't. They were tricked. She slept with someone else, married
someone else, but it wasn't her fault. Anyway, but she goes to hell. They both killed or burned
at the same time. And they, some of them talked about how she travels to hell and how giants see
her on the way to hell. And they question, why are you going to hell? We don't want you here,
you're nasty. And she has to explain, actually, no, I was tricked into being nasty. I'm really a
nice person and she's allowed to carry on and she can meet her buddy in hell. So it's almost
like another realm. Yeah, I was going to say, it's kind of funny. I've never heard a story that's
like denying people access to hell in terms of, I mean, you know, like at least in the Christian
worldview. Now I've heard of, I've heard of in the Greco Roman, what Greek ideas that, you know,
Hercules has the three headed dog, the, I can't even think, Cerberus. And it's taken Cerberus down
to Hades. Yeah. But Hades could be visited, but I don't think you could leave Hades. That's the
only catch. And whereas souls for me, I believe you could catch a soul from there. Sure. I'm not
sure. I don't know. You probably, yeah, you would know more than I would. Let me ask you this,
because we could go on and on and on. What are, is there any good movies that ever been done
that I know they don't compare to writings? Okay, books are better by far. But I'm saying,
are there any cool movies that you would recommend for people to watch and enjoy?
Only one that I'd say is close to reality is one with Antonio Baderas in it,
name I forget. And it's about something called even father, I think his name is, and he's an Arab.
And he journeys along with some Vikings. So he's probably around Anatolia, that sort of area,
or maybe even Arabia. And he's actually wrote a book of his travels. And he, in the book,
so you can get a book like that's Penguin Classic, he's got a page or two describing the Viking
funeral. And so the film has that in it, but also some other things around the Viking journey,
how the Arab sees the Viking journey. So if you search for him, and Vikings are probably a film
would pop up. I've forgotten Kingdom or something like that. But that's probably the only one that I,
yeah, no, nothing comes as close. I really wish there were good films. I mean, there's Viking TV
series, sort of hopped in between. It's only done very well. I mean, some of the acting certainly
the first few seasons was very good, Dragon or Lothbrook. And that's a whole, that's a half a story
of the Sargon of the Volsans. So where I talked about Sigrid, that he had children and Ragnarok
was one of his children. Oh, Ragnar was one of his children. That's describing the Sargon of Volsans
and the story of Ragnar Lothbrook. And that's because really short read. So if someone's not
really into reading, but want to understand it, Sargon of Volsans, I think Jackson Crawford,
Dr. Jackson Crawford has written a good translation, probably you probably read it in a few days.
That really gives you an idea of
that kind of story, real epic. Yeah, I want to get into the, I want to get into reading this stuff
and discuss it more and start seeing if there's a connection between these. So I'm sure you've
already done some of this stuff, or at least looking from your point of view over. I'm definitely
wanting to come over and on your side and see what you have. I think this was an excellent show. I
think this is really, really fun. I don't want to keep going for the sake of brevity of people
watching. But we've got the subject matter. We haven't wandered too far, Derek, for once.
Yeah, because, well, we, I felt like we were kind of all over the place, but we were,
I felt like we did good, man. I do think like we did really, really well and sticking to,
I thought we did get, I don't know. Sign of a good buying, Derek, that is. Have a good
conversation. Cut a thousand years of history. Yes. I think we did a pretty good job here.
Anyone who's watching, make sure you guys go to John's YouTube channel and be sure to definitely
subscribe because he goes into stuff far more in depth. I've noticed that you do a lot of editing
into your stuff too. You'll put cool visuals and stuff to give people kind of a feeling.
And the words. Yeah. And there's a lot more, you get into the scholars on your research and you've
studied quite a bit of them. How long have you been studying this stuff? In hardcore, about 20 years.
All those books behind you? All the books behind me. I've done university courses at various
universities. But I don't try and shout about it. I'm just a, just want to be a guy on the
internet who's just like teaching things. I get fed up of hearing stories that aren't true or
miss out the important narrative underneath that causes the story people are talking about.
That's what I like to say. Actually, the reason that story happened is this. Do you know this?
Or this was the impact of the story. Do you know that? And that's what exists.
They're the things that interest me. Yeah, I really do appreciate it. I can tell that you're
really into this and you know that there are various views in certain ways. There's some
people that disagree and why. And that's what I do with Christianity and the Abrahamic stuff.
Like I like to hear the reasons why and the differences and stuff. So I definitely recommend
you guys go check him out. You get into the Nordic, Germanic, Celtic and proto into European stuff.
Getting deep into that. Subscribe to this channel and it'll be down in the description too. So you
cannot miss where the link is and make sure you guys do that. Thank you, John, for joining me,
bro. Please, Derek. Great discussion. And don't forget, I'll see you in Valhalla, but we are MythVision.
Cash out. If you want to help us out with a donation, join our Facebook groups. And let's make this
thing happen.
