Ladies and gentlemen, meet Nuria, ex-Muslim, and she went through a pretty drastic situation
in her life.
We talk about a little bit of before and after.
What woke her up?
What was the experience she went through?
And I've been thinking about this a lot lately as a man, in the patriarchal world that we
live in, mostly, and I've thought about how much we could learn from women.
You know, I look at my wife all the time and sometimes I have to shut up and just listen
and think, you know what, she has my best interests at heart.
She knows way more than I do in so many ways.
Well, as a man, I think that for all women, I think we could learn a thing or two.
We stopped trying to control their every action like there's some type of property.
Today, Nuria is going to describe her experience, leaving Islam, and how freedom has brought
her to a life that she never thought she'd have.
Now she just wishes she could yell it from the rooftops.
Let's hear it from her.
We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
I'm your host, Derek Lambert.
Ladies and gentlemen, is it Nuria?
Nuria?
Nuria.
Nuria, I always try to, I told you I'd mess up on the name.
I mean, I'm horrible.
So Nuria, thank you so much for joining us here at MythVision.
You are an ex-Muslim and welcome to the channel.
I'm super excited.
Thank you.
Thank you so much for having me.
I'm super excited to be here.
I am too.
And look, I've heard many people you've said you've given your story to.
There's no wrong answers here.
I'm just interested in getting to know a little bit about your life.
And we could talk about maybe what started to flip the switch for you
to actually look into your own experience with Islam.
So we'll just start from the ground up just for our audience who's never seen you.
Because there's a lot of people who are watching this who've never watched you before.
Were you born into a Muslim household?
How religious were they?
Can you give us a little background?
Yeah, sure.
So basically, yes, I am a British born Pakistani.
So ethnically, I'm from Pakistan.
But I was born and bred in London, lived there until I was nine.
And we lived in an extended family set up.
So my grandparents are pretty religious.
And then my parents are less so.
But we were brought up basically as Sunni Muslims, me and my siblings.
So I would go to Quran classes after school every day.
I was taught to pray.
I was taught to like everything that you would understand in Muslim households.
So that was very much a massive part of my identity.
And like I said, obviously, my parents are like one level below the how
conservative and religious my grandparents are.
So they don't necessarily pray five times a day.
But while I was living with them, I was very religious because my granddad and I
were really close and my granddad used to kind of like have the keys to the mosque.
He was like the Imam of the local mosque.
So he would lead the prayer.
And yeah, we used to have like Quran recital competitions.
And I know that's like usually like a like male dominated terrain.
But they really encourage the girls as well to like be able to recite beautifully
and take part in this.
So I used to really kind of like try and memorize the verses of the Quran
and pronounce them really well.
And obviously like my granddad was super proud of me.
So that would just kind of egg me on even more.
So yeah, basically I was I was pretty religious because I lived in England
until I was nine and at that age is when I decided to wear hijab on my own volition.
Of course, like it was not forced on me, but obviously if I'm reading the text
and it tells you me that, you know, this is what God wants from you.
I decided that, yeah, sure, like, of course, this is what I'm supposed to do.
This is my prerogative to do it.
And so I started wearing the hijab at nine and I'd wear it to school.
And we have a class in England called RE, religious education, where you actually
cover all religions, but I really like repped Islam for that.
And I would like demonstrate to the class how to pray.
And I was kind of like the cheerleader for Islam
and tell people how great it was with my hijab on and all of that.
So, yeah, that that's basically my background.
That is interesting because I had an ex-Muslim.
He's an ex-Imam, actually named Muhammad.
And he said that what really got him, he's like, I was never forced, right?
Like that you hear that argument come a lot from people who are from the Muslim world.
Like I wasn't forced.
A lot of women will say that I'm never forced to wear the hijab.
No man ever forced me to do this.
But when they read the literature and God says don't or God is saying through his
prophet, this is what you need to do.
What are you going to do?
Do you feel obligated?
Do you feel coerced in the literature that you must do this?
If you're going to please God, it's like if your dad
you find out your dad actually wants you to do something,
but you find out in an indirect way somehow.
OK, but it's saying this is what your dad wants.
You kind of feel forced like, OK, am I going to please my father in heaven?
If you're a Christian or God who's not a father, according to the Islamic tradition.
But Muhammad was saying that about music and art because he was a big art guy.
And then he read the Quran and was realizing, oh snap, I need to stop.
I need to burn my art, get rid of all my art, get rid of the music.
Like that's how far that it will take you.
So I just want to parallel that for your sake.
And it's a little different because women, like some of the Muslim women
that are online that are out here in the chats, they're acting like I was never
coerced and they're very happy doing this like Ninja Mami and other people
that are out online. They're like, I've got it made great.
I don't feel pressured.
But did you feel pressured from the text that this was something that
it wasn't like someone had a gun to your head, but like
God's not happy if you're not doing this, right?
Yeah, no, 100 percent exactly.
Like I mean, for me, it was clear as day.
I was like, if that's what's prescribed for a woman, no matter how young I am.
And obviously in Islam, it's like, you know, after you hit nine,
things get real in terms of like, you should be fasting, you should be praying.
So I was like, this is the natural next step for me.
Like, why would I want to get to heaven?
Why am I going to like deliberately disobey God?
And when I did wear it, it was weird because obviously like my
grant teacher in the mosque was thrilled and she was encouraging it.
But at home, I didn't get the same reaction.
And I was thinking that they're all mad.
I was like, do you guys don't want to go to heaven?
Like, why aren't you doing it?
Why are you not wearing it?
And, you know, you're questioning my choice to wear it because
I think there's a taboo around putting it on and then taking it off is quite,
it's, you know, it's like, oh, you're pious.
And then all of a sudden you're backtracking.
That seems worse than not wearing it in the first place.
But I was so young and they were just like, are you sure?
Because this is a decision for life.
And at the time I was 100% sure.
And I was like, don't you guys want to follow God's commands?
This has written for us to do and you're not doing it.
So how are you just openly disobeying God?
So I couldn't wrap my mind around that.
As a nine-year-old, I thought, of course, God says it, I'm going to do it.
Yeah. Wow.
Okay. So that's an interesting point that your family weren't really encouraging that.
That's that's a special point you make there.
Because I was watching a documentary recently where a lot of the girls who are,
you know, joining, doing that are oftentimes the ones being kind of
nurtured in that direction.
They have a grandmother or a mother or someone that's kind of saying when you,
you know, when you have your period, when it's, when you become a woman, you know,
it's going to be time and what we should do.
This is what we should do.
This is what you're going to do.
And like they're trained to do that.
But you literally went from your religious standpoint in the text and kind of went against
your own family's wishes in a sense and go, I'm going for God.
So that's a sign that you're more extreme a little.
I don't mean in a bad way.
I mean, like you're more devoted.
You see what I'm saying?
Yeah. No, 100% because I honestly was flabbergasted.
I was like, if this is what the Quran says, and this is what our text says,
surely everybody's end goal is to get to heaven.
Right. Like that is what you would do.
And the way you do that is by following God's command.
So I couldn't understand why these women weren't covering up.
It was weird to me that you're deliberately just missing out on something that God tells you to do.
And you're still expecting a positive end result.
So I was like, I'm just going to play by the rules from as early as possible.
So yeah, it was weird to, I honestly, when I didn't decide to wear it,
I thought I was going to be, you know, get all the mashallahs, the alhamdulillah, the applause.
But it wasn't the case.
Even somebody like my grandmother, who is quite religious, conservatively.
I mean, obviously there's cultural nuances which come into play.
And she's probably thinking like way down the line in the future,
like what if your husband doesn't want somebody that can't,
I don't know what line of thinking that was.
But I think that's where it comes from that if I were to change my mind,
which I did, as you can see, but if I were to change my mind,
that looks worse than me never wearing it in the first place.
Right. Like for me, I guess a lot of, and I'll just give you an example.
Maybe you say yes or no on this.
I've never been a Muslim.
And so I'm already kind of viewed like a, you know, to Muslims like, yeah,
the guy's an atheist. He's antagonistic in some way.
You know, he wants to point out that there's flaws and stuff.
He wants to like wake people up somewhat.
But it's not as bad as if I had converted and then I left.
And was speaking against it like poor ex-Muslims.
I've seen the kind of things you guys deal with.
So this is a question in the vein before we get to the light switch.
How did you feel when you wore that?
Did you feel empowered in some weird way?
Like did it kind of make you feel like I'm keeping gods like superior in some sense?
Like I'm right with God.
And you could kind of look down at others who weren't actually doing this.
Yeah. I mean, honestly, I, so I expected that I was going to feel like a hell of a lot closer to God,
because I was just like, I am definitely doing the right thing here.
So I did kind of feel like this, this low key like superiority that I wouldn't even call it.
I would just, I was like, I'm on the right path.
Like I'm doing what I need to do.
And all of you are, you know, you're onto yourselves, whatever, like on the day of judgment,
you have to deal with answering that question about why you didn't cover up.
But again, I think it was because living in London as well, when you are like,
you're mixed within such a diverse school.
And I think being a Muslim was such an integral part of the identity that I,
like the hijab was almost like a symbol for me to show the world that I am a Muslim girl
and I am a Muslim woman and that kind of thing.
But then literally from like, I'd say a week into wearing it, I was questioning,
because obviously my lifestyle had changed now before I leave the house to go to school.
I have to put it on and I have to like fix it up and all of that thing.
But I didn't feel any closer to God in my heart wearing it than I did without.
And that did play on my mind like a couple of times, even as a nine year old, I was like,
my heart is the same.
It's just, this is just a piece of cloth on my head.
Yes, I feel like this is going to like help me out and get me to heaven.
And I'm following God's commands.
But honestly, the like the connection or the innate like feeling closeness to God,
that didn't change.
I was like, I'm still me.
I have the exact same personality.
I have the exact same heart.
Like it's not nothing has changed.
This is just an outward symbol.
But yes, walking down the streets of London as I was very proud to kind of be like,
yeah, this is my identity.
This is who I am.
This is what I represent.
And this cloth is enough to tell you everything about me and what I stand for.
How many years did you wear the hijab?
Literally less than a year.
Okay.
Okay.
You took it off when 10 or 11 or?
Yeah.
Yeah.
I think by the time I was 10, it was off because I was, I was very,
I was a tomboy as a child.
So I would really like, I'd play football.
I had a lot of guy friends.
We used to be climbing, climbing frames and it just wasn't conducive to any of that.
Like I just, I felt like it was dangerous.
You know, when you clip it with pins as well and you're in primary school,
the teacher would tell my mom as well that, you know, she shouldn't be playing football
and the pin could like hit her neck, but I refused to change it to the other style.
So it eventually just came off because I was like, this is not conducive to,
and again, like, I think that that really paid on my mind the fact that I was like,
I'm doing this, that's great.
Nobody else around me is doing it.
So why am I the only person like following this command?
And second of all, like I said, it didn't, it didn't, it didn't enhance my connection to God.
If that makes sense.
So then I was like, yeah, it's just a little symbol and it wasn't,
I guess if my family had encouraged me more, I probably would have stuck with it
because there is like a huge to go around taking it off.
So I have cousins of mine who made the same decision a couple of years later
and they've stuck by it.
And I've had conversations where I'm like, is this really what you want to do?
Is this like, you know, a choice for life?
But the taboo around taking it off has just kept them wearing it forever.
And it does like, you know, and you do see like someone's entire,
entire attire change as well.
Like when you go to weddings or you go to these functions,
they can never dress themselves up to the same extent.
And you know that sometimes you wonder like, are you missing out?
Or do you feel like you're missing out?
But they've, it's almost like I've made my bed now, I have to lie in it.
So I'm really, really grateful that in that small window,
I think my parents really pressurized me to kind of take it off.
And they wanted me to like pursue playing football
and doing things that I wanted to do.
So they were just like, this isn't necessary.
Your, I think their argument was your way too young right now
because you're nine years old.
Maybe when you get to like 18, 16, even like decide for yourself then,
but make it a decision as an adult,
like don't put yourself through this as a child.
And like I said, school didn't encourage it.
It was, there was a lot working against me.
So I was like, okay.
Wow. So it sounds to me, your parents are really smart.
They, they, first of all,
it does sound that they've been influenced by the West.
This is definitely not a Pakistani idea.
This is something that you would find being where you guys were located
and getting used to the Western society, I suspect,
made a huge impact on them in a good way, I think.
Forcing girls like that of that age,
I mean, you could technically living in that kind of society in Pakistan
actually marry off your nine year old,
marry off your young daughter.
You know, you could do that.
And that, that would be absolutely normal.
I was watching a documentary too,
and this is off that topic,
but honorary killings and things like that,
like that stuff is normal when you're over there.
That happens and the whole family could be against you.
They don't feel guilt or anything.
It's all, you know, being right with God and stuff.
So how many years were you a Muslim?
Obviously you were born into this,
but like at what age would you say
I've only left Islam really recently.
Like I've spent most of my life as a Muslim, I think.
So I moved back to the UK when I was 27,
and that's when I left Islam.
So it's only literally been like a couple of years.
Wow.
Yeah.
Okay.
So we need to figure out.
So being a non-Muslim is newer to me than being a Muslim,
if that makes sense.
Wow.
We need to, we need to probe that.
We need to really probe that because it's really interesting.
You don't come off like you're aggressively offensive
or anti Islamophobic.
It's people like to use the term and stuff like,
no, like it sounds to me, you love,
you have family members that are Muslims, you love them.
Do they talk to you?
Are they more on the like,
are they a little more progressive and not so extreme
to the point where they can talk with you and be still friends?
Yeah.
So honestly, I mean, I'm the only ex-Muslim
or I'm the only one that's not a Muslim now in my entire life.
Close circle, my entire family, extended family even.
So I had no idea that apostasy was a thing or that it existed
or that I could even leave a religion.
You know, if I didn't like it,
I didn't understand this as a concept because.
Oh, wow.
Yeah.
They are so like, so my immediate family,
obviously because we've lived, we lived in the UK,
then we moved to Saudi Arabia and then we moved to the UAE.
So we've lived in actual like Muslim, like Islamic countries.
And but the education and the schools we went to
were so international and so diverse.
I met people from all across the world.
And obviously, because my parents were kind of born
and brought up in England as well.
And then we moved around.
They're almost like experts and they've seen the world.
They've traveled.
And so they've never been like as like conservative
and as like, you know, intense with their approach to Islam.
But having said that, like I said,
this entire concept of leaving Islam was never a thing,
not even to them.
So it started off when I was kind of like questioning.
And I realized, oh my God, there's some really,
really messed up things in this religion.
And the first thing you want to do
is kind of get your own family out.
Like, you know, I want to tell my siblings,
I want to save them.
I want to, you know, you want to save them
in the same way religious people want to save people.
But I'm like, guys, this is so messed up.
You need to read this.
And they didn't take, they don't take it too well.
I'll be very honest.
You, it's so kind of below the belt, you know,
and like I could show them, let's say like Hadiths that are bad.
But if I ever, ever go straight to the Quran and say,
look at this dad, like clearly hate speech.
It's like, that's when the conversation shuts down
because you cannot attack the book itself.
Once you attack the book, you're attacking like everything
that it is that they stand for and that they believe.
So I've kind of been pushing to normalize that some more.
And you do see them really warm into it.
Like my youngest sister now, she's just completely like,
I don't think she believes at all.
She's a lot more like rationalistic and a lot more on the side of science.
But again, because she was the last one, so I had to,
I was forced to read the Quran like all in Arabic
and then you have a little celebration party.
My brother and sister after me were also forced to do that.
But my youngest sister, by the time it got to her,
my dad was of the thinking that why is she reading a book
in a language she doesn't understand?
This is just a waste of time and energy
and it's doing nothing for her.
So if anything, let her read it in English.
And I'm like, that is beautiful.
Let's her read it in English.
That would be a game changer.
Oh man, okay.
This gets into the like, as someone who's a recent
de-convert, someone who left, you point out a strong point.
Don't touch the book.
You touch the book, you got a problem.
But that's obviously somehow we've got to make that
somewhat normalized, where people aren't so offended
they're cutting people's heads off for drawing a cartoon
or for talking about the Quran.
Because I don't believe that it's a miracle, personally.
That doesn't mean I don't think the tradition
is not very beautiful on how they've tried to preserve things.
I'm saying this as a human, like as humans who are trying to,
and I'm not talking about all the ugly stuff,
trust me, we can get into ugly stuff.
The point is, I'm simply pointing out that there's a human
exertion involved on trying to preserve this tradition
and they're trying to do that.
And in that sense, I can find beauty.
When you get to the ugly stuff, we can always get there.
But we got to be able to talk about it.
And what do you think?
What do you think it was?
Because I've talked to my parents when I left.
I don't even try with my mom anymore.
My mom sounds to me like she needs it in her head,
the way she acts.
Like she needs it or else she doesn't know the meaning.
There's no meaning to life.
Everything is done.
Like that's how she sees things.
That's not how I do.
But what about that with your family?
Like do you think that that's the same thing for them?
They just can't see any other life possible but this?
Yeah, I mean, of course, it is such a sense of comfort, right?
That's how you explain everything.
Like what it is that you do, what it is that you practice,
what it is that's going to happen to you after you die.
I think as well, especially coming from a Pakistani background,
it forms such an integral part of who you are.
Like your DNA is like I'm a Muslim.
If you take away the Islam from a Pakistani, what are you?
Because your whole country was built from this whole migration was done for Islam.
So once you take that away, what are you?
We go back and we're Indian or in my case, we're Patan, we're Afghan.
Like what are you?
So there's all these questions that kind of come into play.
And I mean, like I said, they are warming to it now
because I'm very privileged in the sense that my parents are very well educated
and they're very progressive.
So there's only like a certain amount that they can ignore
or choose to ignore what it is that's problematic.
But and I'm not sitting here all day every day like putting it in their faces
saying this is wrong and this is messed up.
But like when we see we're watching the news together, for example,
and there's like a terrorist attack and, you know, they're like, oh my God,
like it's crazy.
How can people do this in the name of Islam?
And I just kind of throw in a comment saying that's what Islam does.
That's what Islam is.
And I'll be like, no, no, no, but I will pull up something and I'll show it to them.
And I don't know what's happening in the inner workings of their mind.
But like I definitely I've just left Islam recently,
but I already see a small kind of change in that the Quran used to be a book
that I could never ever kind of like I couldn't badmouth it.
And now I kind of get away with cheekier comments and they're more tolerant of it
because they're doing their own research individually.
And they're like, wait, is she really serious?
Like for real?
Does it say that?
And I've seen like my sisters and stuff, they go and do their own research as well.
But it's now something that they can't hide shy away from.
But yeah, definitely like this was again, anybody else I would never even in my extended family,
I cannot pull up the Quran and tell them this is problematic or this is what's wrong.
Like it is so sacred.
But then the other day, my sister actually asked my dad,
have you read the Quran like more recently in English as opposed to just Arabic?
And I don't think he has.
It's almost like for some a lot of progressive Muslims.
And this is the reason I believe that they're happy and they stay within Islam
is because it does honestly end up just as some mystical book on your bookshelf,
you know, in a nice little cover and it's there.
And then you have to do the whole ablution ceremony to read it anyway.
So it's not just the book that you'd constantly pick up.
It's like, oh, we have the Holy Quran there.
But do you know the contents of it?
Not really.
It's just kind of there and you'll then the sanitized version of Islam that I was fed as well.
And that I truly believed Islam was incredible and peaceful and stuff.
They just came onto that.
And I could have been the same way as well.
It's only because situations and circumstances forced me to confront the text.
And then I realized, oh, shit, that's actually really, really messed up.
But have you, if nothing propels you to do that, you can easily stay within Islam.
And it is just a book on your bookshelf and you're happy with the identity.
So this is you brought it up.
And I'm glad you did.
You did a wonderful job there.
Some circumstances forced you to have to, maybe it didn't force you,
like it caused you to reevaluate this whole thing.
And for me, it wasn't, and I'm going to use Christianity just to give you an example here.
So we can lead into yours.
I want to hear yours in depth.
But for me, it wasn't, oh, look at all the priests, molesting little kids,
or oh, look at all the pastors who are preaching against homosexuality
and all these things.
And yet you're finding them with a transvestite and methamphetamine
in a hotel on a Saturday, right before church on Sunday.
It wasn't any of that.
Because I could easily rationalize and go, okay, guess what?
They weren't following Christ.
That's not the teachings of you.
Yep, bad apples, simple as that, out the picture.
But what really got me was my own struggles in life.
And it allowed me to say in my mind, because my life was causing me
to a point in addiction where I was going to die.
I was struggling with drug addiction so bad that I was like, I'm going to die.
And I found out that there are patterns.
There's comparative religion.
And when you start looking at other religions, you get to this place where you go,
man, you dropped your ego for a second.
And you can try to put yourself in the shoes of an Indian,
or put yourself in the shoes of a Muslim,
or you put yourself in the shoes of a Buddhist, or an atheist, or anyone.
And you try and go, why do I think I'm right?
Everyone else is wrong.
You kind of stop and you just want to be a human.
So I looked at it and went, how do I know this is true?
And that question mark led me on a path that made me start to realize,
are all of these human, just human creations and concoctions?
And in my head, that's what it started to look like.
And it has continued to only be verified to me.
It's like, it only becomes more and more like, wow, humans are clever.
So what happened to you?
What's your particular significant situation that really made you, everyone's different,
evaluate your faith and what you believed to see if it was true or not?
Yeah, well, really, really similar, obviously, in terms of what propelled me in the same situation
as yours, for example, was only when you're confronted with something so like,
when your life is at risk or your freedoms are being curtailed or life is going to change,
life as you know it is going to change forever that you're actually like,
hold on a second, let me just face the facts and whatever the truth is, I'm ready for it.
So yeah, essentially, basically, when I lived in the UAE, I was married and it turned into,
it was a very abusive marriage and I kind of wanted out and obviously, trying to get a divorce
with somebody who does not want to give you the privilege of divorcing you.
They can kind of make your life hell.
So I was assuming we'd go through a normal court process like we would anywhere in the west.
But then one day, I'd gone back to my dad's house as well.
So I left the house and separated, but I got a call from the police and they had put some
ancient Sharia law on me that I'd never heard of before.
And I didn't think this was anything to do with Islam or being a Muslim,
but it's called Ta'az al-Jia in Arabic, which is like the forceful return of the wife.
And again, I was still a Muslim at this point, but I was just confronted with the stark reality
that these four policemen are going to come and arrest me according to this Sharia law
and force me back to my husband's house where I can't leave without his permission.
So essentially taking me, the police could take me and hold me hostage
in my husband's house against my will.
So I was obviously shocked.
I was like, this is not a thing.
This cannot be sanctioned by law.
So I went back to my parents and I was like, guys, this is the law that they're putting on me.
This is the police are going to come arrest me and this is what they can do.
And even my parents couldn't consider that as a concept.
They were like, no way.
Like you're in our house.
Nobody's going to forcibly return you.
No judge would warrant that.
And I was like, yeah, but here they will and they are.
And I kind of, I had to dodge this law, which was essentially saying,
we're going to force you to go back into an abusive household and you will.
And I've gone to them numerous times saying, look, I'm being stalked.
I'm being harassed.
He's showing up at my workplace.
I just don't feel safe.
And all of that is put aside.
And because of this law, which I mean, I had to go like a year and a half later
when I got out of this mess, when I researched it is obviously what led to the breakdown of my faith.
Because I never, never, ever believed that a God specifically Allah would sanction the fact
that I was to return to a situation where genuinely my life was at risk.
So yeah, it's just so that that law basically was a massive turning point for me.
And again, I couldn't like put those two things together in the sense
that I'm a Muslim and this is an Islamic law.
I did not.
I just thought this is men behaving badly.
This is men abusing their power.
This is an abuse of power at a police level, at a judicial level, whatever.
But then like going through the whole process as well,
Islamically to get the divorce and to push for it as a woman.
I'm telling them all these concepts that they don't understand like,
you know, mental health issues, all of these kind of things that they're literally
the policemen in the station would just sit there with like
the Arabic and Swah thing that you clean your teeth with.
And they're just laughing and they're just enjoying the fact that I'm there having a
conversation with them.
One officer after another will just come and talk to me for hours.
No one's writing anything down.
And I was like, is this a joke?
Like this is just so demeaning.
And I was very respectful.
Like I was still a Muslim.
I'd wear my abaya, you know, I'd put my shawl on my head.
I'd be very, very respectful.
But at the same time, I was kind of losing it because I'm like,
okay, I'm a British citizen and I'm in your country and I'm telling you,
I don't feel safe.
Surely there's something you guys should be doing.
And it's only that like when this process got pushed to even like get a divorce,
because the husband has the right, right?
So I'm essentially his property.
First of all, that's how the Sharia law was put on me to forcibly return.
And obviously when I looked into it, this stems from the idea that if you fear
disobedience from your wife, you know, you're able to beat her.
You're able to like forcibly.
So this law, I Googled it as well.
It's not, it doesn't apply in most like Gulf countries anymore.
But in Egypt, they still use this and they still like,
the judges still do commentaries on what that like and disobedience means
and what you can do legally to enforce if you even fear the Quran says,
if you even fear disobedience, it's not even that disobedience has to occur.
And like, even as a Muslim, then I was like, okay, that's okay.
But now I understand the concept of obedience is so messed up in itself.
But yeah, so when even just trying to get a divorce because the right is the husband,
I had to like fight my way through these layers and layers of like just misogynistic men who
are abiding by this.
And then they force you to go to like family counseling.
Again, so Islamic in nature, like the first question they ask you is,
how many times a day do you pray?
Have you got lost your connection with God?
Maybe you too should go away and pray some more and then come back and you'll change your mind.
And on the flip side, if somebody again is trying to keep you roped in,
he would play like all these weird angles like, oh, she has a like gin on her as she's possessed.
You know, she's not of sound mind.
That's why she wants to divorce.
Like she's actually possessed.
So they would do exorcisms on me and keep me in that way.
They really, they, hold on, they did that?
No, so he was pushing that narrative for them to do that, obviously.
And I was there like, no, no, no, this is like me of my sound mind telling you,
he's like abusive and I want to get out of this relationship.
But they're just there like, okay, well, why don't you go for two weeks,
have a coffee with him, pray five times a day, your, your imman, like your faith is weak.
And that's why this marriage is crumbling.
And you have to push past like layers and layers of that.
And then you finally get it to court.
And again, like eventually when I did get the divorce papers,
it's just so demeaning for a woman.
Like after everything I've told them and everything I've been through, they're like,
okay, well, the husband should pay you maintenance for like this many months.
And it actually says like in the divorce papers,
like he can pay you this many dirhams for like makeup expenses.
And it's like, really?
This is your divorce paper from a Dubai court.
Like this is how you guys handle these situations.
But again, it was, even that would have been fine.
But it got to the point where this abuse and the harassment,
even from the police got so incessant.
Like they would call me up on the weekends to come to the station.
And as a girl, as a woman, you don't have to go with,
when four policemen show up at your house,
you don't have to go with them unless there's a female officer present,
which I thankfully knew because they tried that many times.
But then I actually said, I'm in my father's house,
which even Islamically, you're either, you're always a property in Islam.
So you're either your husband's or your father's.
But I had said, I'm back with my father.
So he's technically my mehrim's like your guardian in Arabic.
So I don't want to go anywhere until he's back in the country
because he was abroad at the time.
And if you're going to take me to the station,
then I need to inform my embassy
because I know what happens when people get mixed up.
And you know, you could just become a number in the police station
and never be seen for like weeks or be held indefinitely.
And I was like, I'm not going to let that happen to me.
So obviously they had to listen to that.
But then you were forced to sign papers in Arabic,
things that you don't understand.
And it got to the point where they asked my passport
and it just got so intense.
But I made a call to the British embassy
and the thankfully some angel of a man was like,
listen, if you still have your passport in your hand,
just do not hand it over.
Because I was telling them like the charges
they were trying to put on me, the harassment from the police,
the times that they were calling me.
And he just said, he's like, look,
I can't give you legal advice
because you know Sharia operates there
and British law can't intervene with Sharia.
But until and unless you haven't handed in your passport,
just come back home to where you have rights.
Where these things aren't even,
these are lawful concepts.
Oh my gosh.
Okay, this is the thing.
I didn't even know this about you.
And this is what I had to hear from you.
So I can put myself in your shoes
and imagine when you're going in front of these police,
when you're talking around your husband,
even though you were still in the faith in some way,
you were still maybe there and going,
I don't even know what the hell's going on.
You're having a crisis.
Did you have to, and you can be honest,
it doesn't matter.
Did you have to lie about how sincere you were in your faith
just to get these people to try to take you seriously?
Listen, no, I am very faith, I pray all the time.
Did you have to kind of bullshit your way through some of this stuff
in order to try and get them to not like,
oh, let me cast those demons out of her,
or let me get her locked up or force her to come back?
No, this is a faithful Muslim woman who's trying to be,
tell me, is that something that you had to do?
Yeah, I mean, 100%, you hit the nail on the head.
So also, deep down, I was fully still a believing Muslim,
right?
So I believe, I love Allah.
My Allah is like, I'm a Muslim.
This is just men abusing their power.
They have warped Islam to use it in their favor.
But yeah, at this count, obviously,
I've always been progressive.
I've always been slightly liberal
because it's just the way I've grown up,
my schooling, my friendships.
I am a very chill person in general.
I never believed every other person would go to hell.
Like I obviously was like, yeah,
homosexuality is wrong, but all the normal things
that you think of as a religious person.
But I didn't think, like I was pretty chill,
but when it came to those meetings,
when they would say, go back and pray five times a day,
and is your faith weak?
Personally, I never believed my faith was weak
because I felt so closely connected to God
on a personal level, but I always thought religion
was a personal thing between you and God.
But yeah, to these men, I would have to sit and say,
yeah, okay, I'll go and pray five times a day,
and know my faith is strong, and I believe in God,
and I know God would want this marriage to work,
but I don't feel safe in my own house.
But yeah, again, you're completely right,
you hit the nail on the head.
I would definitely have to overtly even more be like,
yes, I'm very faithful, I believe in God, I will pray.
And the only prayers I really wouldn't,
I'd emphasize that I'll do the Friday Juma prayer,
especially in like, and there's a special kind of prayer
you do in Islam called istikhara,
which is what you do when you're making
a big life decision or something.
So I'd hone in on that and say, yes,
I'll go and do istikhara, and I'll do du'a,
and think about it, and all of that jazz.
Yeah, so I guess, and maybe you did do that.
Maybe you did, maybe you did just because you were faithful.
But this two things, I want to get to what happens ultimately,
right, the crisis of faith and what did it for you.
But I do want to say a smart move on the police officer thing.
You know, one of the big things that concerns me,
especially of women like you, you're an attractive woman.
So I imagine these men potentially could have done something,
or would maybe, maybe had negative motivations
or something in that process.
That's something that could have easily happened,
especially in a foreign country like this.
You're not, you have no rights.
I mean, what are you going to say?
Your word is nothing anyway.
Like, they're going to believe that you were taken advantage
of by these four men.
So I get it, even in the tradition,
the tradition handicaps women,
but it's also there to try and like prevent, I guess,
these helpless women, right?
From getting raped and or taken advantage of,
or maybe they see it the other way around,
or of the woman causing the men to lust after her
and then therefore do things like that.
It's kind of a crazy patriarchal system
that you guys always get to blame for though.
Yeah, yeah.
And I'm like, it's so demeaning.
Honestly, it's so like, imagine I could never think
about going to a police station in London, for example,
and saying like, I'm the one that's come with a complaint
or a grievance, but on the flip side,
I feel like I am like at fault
and I need to protect myself from you lot.
Do you know what it's almost like flipped?
Like, that's what I'm saying.
Oh, when it got to the point where it would mess with my head,
like hours and hours sitting in the police station
and they're like calling different officers
to come and have chats with me.
And I'm like, you start to realize
that nothing's really happening here.
They're just buying time and having,
they're just having a laugh amongst themselves
and they're just enjoying some female company.
And I'm like, I would sit there and feel like
I want to cover up more,
I'd like make sure my abire was on properly.
Like I wouldn't want to be alone in the room with them.
It was just, it's such a, the whole,
I mean, to the point where I genuinely had like PTSD
when I got back to the UK from police sirens
and men in general, like I had to go through therapy
and counseling just to be able to look men in the eye
and trust them because they had absolutely destroyed
all level of my faith in authority
and men and authority figures
because they abuse their power to that extent.
And again, I would, if my father wasn't in the country,
I would take like male friends of mine
to give me more authority in the police station, for example.
I would take an Arabic speaking friends of mine
just for them to take me more seriously.
And again, they'd separate you and just spend out.
It's just, yeah, totally what you said.
Oh man, okay.
So you get home, you have rights now.
You can think for yourself in a way, you know?
I mean, obviously you still have your family,
you still have the tradition,
but when you go from that extreme form of control to,
hold on, it really wasn't that much control
growing up in my own house until I had this stuff happen.
What, what was it that did it for you?
What did you find out?
Was there something of a doctrine or did you find out that
a lot of what they were doing is justified?
And therefore you were like, how, what, what happened?
Tell me what happened that maybe flipped the light switch on for you.
Yeah. So obviously when I got back, I was like, okay,
but I had like things that calmed down.
And I was like, now I need to like understand myself,
what happened to me and why that happened to me.
So I looked into it because I knew that obviously living in the West,
a lot of people that I would obviously encounter,
whether it was like, you know, just in my life moving forward,
some of them might say, oh, that's what Sharia does.
That's, that's Sharia law for you.
That's exactly what happened.
And I as a believing Muslim would never want to say
that that is what my religion sanctions.
So I looked into it myself and I was like,
where does the stars, oh gee, come from?
What is this concept?
How could they claim that this is from God?
Because I had studied Islamic law as a module at university
and I know that Sharia derives from the Quran.
Like there's basic principles,
but they're all found in the Quran and that's, that's how you,
you use and you, you know, Sharia law applies.
So I was like, where in the Quran would it ever say something like that
to be able to force me to go back to my husband's house?
So I, lo and behold, I looked into the, the, the Sharia law
and I found out that it still works in Egypt and Morocco
and some of these countries still employ this.
But I'll say, okay, if Sharia is derived from the Quran,
let me go back to the Quran itself and see what the Quran has to say
about women and obedience and where they could have,
again, in my head though, I was like,
men have taken this verse and like skewed with it and yeah.
So I was like, okay, let me see how they messed with this verse.
My perfect Quran, like how they messed with it.
So I looked into that and I didn't even bother in Arabic.
I was like, listen, I'm going to just read this in English now.
I want to just get to the bottom of it in my own language
in a language I understand and like clear as day
when I read those verses about if you fear disobedience from your wife,
you know, admonish her, blah, blah, blah, separate your beds
and then finally beat her, daraba, like that, that word.
And then again, I couldn't believe,
I could not believe what I was seeing and reading
and I was like, no, no, no, this can't be.
Someone's translated this wrong into English.
So I went to actual native Arabic speakers
and that's what I actually first ever typed into YouTube.
Like, is Islam the truth?
And I went to native Arabic speakers at the time.
I think it was the master Arab was putting out videos
and Sharif Gabar and they were the ones who were like,
like that is what it says in Arabic.
Don't get it twisted and don't let them fool you
into thinking that daraba means beat lightly with a toothbrush
or something like the word is there.
So when I started reading about that, I was like, no,
like this cannot be even if somehow this is what the Quran says.
The Prophet would never have treated a woman like this
or he would have never acted in this way.
Let me go back to how he dealt with women
and how he treated his wives.
So I went back to the Hadith as well
and I started reading about the Prophet's life.
And I just realized there was a whole host of things
that you'd never been taught.
I was taught that the Prophet sweats about like roses
and, you know, he was the nicest man
and a woman would throw garbage at him
and he'd never respond.
I had no idea that he married a six year old
and consummated the marriage at nine.
I had no idea that he took sex slaves.
Like opposite, I thought he freed slaves Islam.
Islam was like the emancipation of.
And I just literally, I think I spent a good year and a half
where I just hibernated at home
and I just educated myself.
And each day was just like, it was just like bombs dropping.
And I was like, this is insane.
And I got to the point where I was like,
I cannot anymore like look myself in the eye
and call myself a Muslim.
Like I want to be as far away from this ideology as possible.
But yeah, it was only when I got
had to actually confront the text in my own language.
Like it is horrible.
The misogyny in the Quran was enough, by the way,
to put me off.
I just needed to know that like,
I'm not checking out of this ideology for nothing.
Like I have to be so sure,
which is why I went back to like the Hadith and the Seerah as well.
And like all of these things where I was like,
okay, this in its entirety is crap.
But the Quran itself was more than enough, more than enough.
And I had like read the Quran as well when I was a teenager.
There was like a really important night in,
it's called, Later till Mirage,
which is like the night where the Prophet supposedly
went up on the flying winged horse.
So that night is like a day off in Dubai as well.
And I remember trying to be really like,
let me read the Quran today in English
and like, let me really connect with God.
And I just remember like, it was so weirdly enigmatic
that I was like,
because I'm really interested in history as well.
So I was reading about like,
who they say is Alexander the Great in the Quran
and like King Solomon and the Queen of Sheba.
And in the Quran, she's described as like,
you know, having like these hairy legs
and the half like animal, half woman.
So I go in and watch documentaries
and I'm like, who is the Queen of Sheba?
What area did?
And I was like, the Quran set me on like a wild gush taste
that it just put me off.
But it only made sense
because when I actually read it as an adult,
I was like, this is nonsense.
Yeah. So it's not literally obviously historically true.
The whole two horned man.
What's the name of it in the Quran?
But it's Alexander the Great.
Yeah.
Yeah. That right there.
I said this the other day.
I did an interview with Marain van Puten
and of course, Sean Anthony, other PhDs,
they're Islamic scholars in the text.
They know the history.
They know the Quran.
Like all of this stuff, like not like average, like experts.
They know all of the various variants and you name it.
Like they've the Sana lower text,
the Palimpsest and all that stuff.
Things I barely know how to say,
like Mudawatir and the Kirat,
then all this different things.
I'm trying to figure it out.
All that stuff.
And they're all over it.
And at the end of the day, the Quran has been,
and I'm going to say this, this is bluntly,
been pretty well preserved since utman.
Okay. Yeah.
There's different very, they had ones
that were sent to different regions,
I guess you'd say that were written for different regions.
So there might be a little bit different spelling,
like for example, color, C-L-L-O-R
or C-O-L-O-U-R, right?
If you're in a different region of the world,
speaking English, you're going to spell it this way
and blah, blah, blah.
Well, that still didn't matter to me
because I try to explain to people,
when you look at those stories,
men who hibernate in a cave for 300 years,
that's a Christian story that came earlier in early church.
You find out about the two horned man.
This is Alexander the Great.
We know he was a pagan.
We know, we know this.
We know that it's yeah.
So I just had to make this comment,
but I wanted this to be about you, this whole show.
But I just want to make this comment,
like when Muslims come to me and they talk about like,
oh no, the Koran is true.
I love what you do against Christianity.
I love what you do showing the Old Testament,
the Judaism and all that stuff,
like issues with that and all.
Love that, but the Koran is true.
And here's why.
And I'm like, I think,
I don't think you're understanding,
like all of the sources for all of that material,
for the Abrahamic faiths,
is older than the Koran material,
older than everything you have.
And you're saying all that got corrupted.
And yet your text is intertextual
with this older stuff,
but you claim you got it right.
700 years after the New Testament stuff,
right? Well, maybe not quite that.
Maybe depending on what text
we're talking about in the manuscript,
but nonetheless,
older than the way even further than the Jewish stuff,
Dead Sea Scrolls,
we can look at to validate and verify this stuff.
There's too much here.
So if I've already came away from
the Abrahamic faiths,
what makes you in your head think,
somehow I'm going to look at this
and not be critical,
number one,
and try to find holes,
because that's what I'm going to do.
I admit preservation is great since Uthman,
but before that,
we aren't certain of what to do.
So it's just, I'm with you,
like that stuff's obvious game changing material
when you realize just Alexander the Great.
This man would like,
he would literally worship any God.
He would go out there and say,
Hey, Egyptians,
and they turned him into a God.
Like how is he accepting this
to become a deity in Egypt?
Right? We know this.
This is great information.
We have historical evidence for this.
And yet you're going to tell me
this guy worshiped the one true God.
Yeah, he's a Muslim.
And so was Abraham.
And so was Adam.
And it's like,
Oh, Adam didn't even exist.
And most likely Abraham didn't exist either.
So once you do that,
what are you left with?
Right?
Yeah. Yeah.
It's a joke.
The historicity in the Quran can be absolute.
It's almost laughable when you come away.
And again, that's why I'm saying maybe like,
you know, obviously when you're having an education,
that's kind of like unbiased in that sense.
Like I would learn about Alexander the Great.
And I would know categorically,
he was not a Muslim yet.
He's celebrated there as being like in the Quran.
It's just given as a fact.
But he was and it's celebrated.
And even as a child,
you're kind of into minds because you're like,
well, I'll just go with this.
But history and school and everything else
is telling me the opposite.
And that's what I'm saying.
Like it sent me on a wild goose chase
with these random stories that it's picked up from like,
like you said, the sleeper cave story.
All of these things.
And you were just like, wait, what is happening?
And Abraham built the first Gabba in Makkah.
No, he wasn't even knocking about in Saudi Arabia.
Like this is not a thing.
Yeah.
That's a really interesting point that, you know,
the, what is his name?
The guy who's, you mentioned a YouTuber
that did a lot of material.
Sharif Gabber.
Yeah.
I feel really, I'm trying to obviously get a hold of him,
right?
And I messaged him on Instagram.
And he messaged me back.
He messaged me back.
And he was like, bro, I can't,
I can't talk right now while I'm in Egypt.
And I'm thinking to myself, I can't imagine
what kind of shit he's going through right now
because those videos are damning,
literally damning material.
And he got, he's in big trouble, I guess.
And that's the scary place to be.
He is.
That's what, I mean, even ever since I've started speaking out,
I mean, he, his videos definitely like helped me
completely shake my faith.
Just when I was on the verge of, should I, should I leave?
Should I, like, is this, like, am I, you know, down to hell?
Or should I just follow my mind and like go where the truth is?
And his videos were like the last straw, him and Master Arab,
for sure.
But yeah, ever since I've been speaking out, I mean,
I follow him on Twitter as well.
He's been in a precarious situation where he's like,
I've just got to hold out a bit longer.
And like, I'm just, I will get to a point where I can speak.
And I, obviously he's still stuck in Egypt
by the looks of it and the sounds of it.
And I just don't, I hope he can get to it.
Because it's been a while now that he's been in this situation,
which is neither here nor there.
Like people are just saying, I hope you're safe.
And like, you know, just, is there anything we can do?
But he just has these bouts where he has to lay low,
like properly lay low, but his tweets are so alarming.
And then you're like, oh my God, have the authorities got him?
Are they, are they torturing him?
What's happening?
And then sometimes he'll come out and say,
I'm working on a new video.
And you're like, oh, you're okay, you're alive,
you're safe, it's all good.
But yeah, I am, I have so much respect for that guy.
And I really, really hope he can,
he can get out of that country.
And I'm sure there's organizations out there as well
that would be able to, to help facilitate that.
But again, I just don't even know how much he can,
like let on about his situation while he's in Egypt.
Again, these countries are insane.
I'm telling you, like the authorities,
you do not want to get on their, on the wrong side.
And he seems like he's been on their wrong side.
He went to prison.
It's, you know, he's done this.
He's been, he's been in trouble for this before.
But, you know, I wanted to relate all that back
to your message and the fact that you started to investigate.
So at the end of the day, we all get excited
when we find out something, well, first we get afraid.
I was afraid of hell, right, for a long time.
And you think, am I going to get, am I damned to hell?
Like you said, but you keep going, you realize, no, no, no.
That's all part of the myth.
That's all part of the, the control mechanism there
to keep you stuck and come back.
How that develops, you can actually look into the development
of the myth of hell and see how this stuff comes even
from the Greek world and where they may have gotten ideas
from how it naturally would have evolved.
Look at a volcano.
Where's fire coming out of the ground?
Oh, okay.
So there must be a place in the ground
where there's underworld where you're going to go.
All that being said, you want to tell the world
what you found out and you want to keep them
from these type of harms.
This goes back to the beginning.
You tried talking to your parents.
Did they have to finally tell you to shut up?
I don't want to hear anymore.
Yeah, in other words, yeah, it was kind of like, listen,
like we can coexist and, you know, we can,
we can all agree to disagree here.
But I mean, stop dropping truth bombs on us.
Like we're comfortable in the lie.
Some, like you said, some people need the lie for comfort.
Otherwise, you know, what's the point?
Literally, what is the point?
If this is it, we're not going to summertime or heaven or hell.
And again, like you're saying, like I do drop things like this
as well.
Like I'm like, oh, guys, look at each culture's hell.
It's so relevant to what the culture would fear at that time.
Like, you know, some, some Indian concept of hell
is like being lost in a forest
because that's the natural landscape there.
The Nordic hell is like, I see as hell.
Arabs, the thought of fire and heat was like hell for that.
It's so, it's, you can see how it's so localized.
And again, like the metamorphosis of the concept of hell
and where it first, you know, originally came from.
And again, all I'm, all I'm going to do
is just keep dropping these little indicators
which will get their, the wheels of their mind turning
to the point where I just like catch somebody in my family
googling something that they would never have googled
or trying to read a book or something
that they would never, you know, look into
or just, you know, you just shake, you shake the foundations,
you kind of plant those seeds.
And then the work is kind of like easily done after that.
But yeah, like they are definitely not happy about me
like saying things that I believe in.
But more so than anything,
which is what I really love and respect them so much
is obviously they are two educated people
and they've raised, you know, they've raised children
who they're like, you've got your free to question and think.
And that's another thing is that even as a Muslim
that they would, we'd always have that thing
where the Quran says read and learn and educate yourself.
So that's all I've done.
I'll just use that same argument back.
And it's led me to this conclusion,
but this is the problem with, I think,
a religion like Islam, which is so inherently cultish
and it's like, you know, dealing with apostasy.
My parents, I don't think their biggest concern
is me even speaking out because they're like,
you know what, you're on your journey and that's,
if this is your path to truth, then so be it.
But it's more like all they ever asked me
when I'm going to events in London or wherever to speak,
they're just like, are you safe?
Are you safe?
Are you safe?
And it's like, again, I use that.
I'm like, do you see what this religion does
if that's your biggest fear?
Is that am I going to be her or am I,
and they want to come with me to certain events
just to ensure my safety.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Oh my gosh.
Yeah, that's a big, big situation.
I mean, I don't ever have that.
They just say, hey, safe travels, you know,
like my parents and my mom doesn't like me doing what I do.
She knows that it's going to help me take care of my family
and do what I love to do,
but she doesn't agree with me at all on this.
She tells me to pray all the time.
Just say a little prayer, Derek,
just to keep God on your good side.
And I'm like, okay,
but I just get her to, you know,
feel better about herself and about all of this
so she's not worried about me.
Never do you have that issue with Christianity.
In fact, I get people who are like,
hey, man, since you've already done what you've done,
and I haven't done a lot yet.
I've barely started scratching the surface
on anything Islamic.
I've just heard about it in passing back in the day.
Like you hear things,
but you don't really know the religion.
So I look into it further and I'm already going, okay,
there's some hills that I think people want you to focus on
and they want you to focus on preservation,
all this stuff.
And to me, at the end of the day,
you can grant all that.
You could say the Quran accurately is telling you
what Muhammad said.
It wouldn't matter.
You run into the two horn man,
you run into these things
that are called the intertextuality.
You find out even if you grant all that,
it's all faith for Muslims.
But if you're going to be factual and historical,
we can show you where that literature comes from.
And when your tradition has Muhammad,
not being a merchant as much as possible
in a lot of these traditions,
so that he didn't encounter ideas
from people beyond his little bubble,
so that he directly got this from Gabriel
and never got this from any rabbi or Jew or Christian.
I see what you're trying to do.
You're trying to protect it.
Plus you want him to be,
you don't want him to be a merchant.
You want him to be a shepherd.
Because if you look back at the Abrahamic faiths,
all the prophets were shepherds.
So what's this guy doing?
Haggling going, I'll give you two for 10, two for 10.
No, no, two for eight, two for eight.
That's not honest work.
That's the worry.
They don't want him to be a merchant
because it's dishonest work.
And they don't want the prophet having dishonest work.
If that's even true.
I don't even want to die on the hill there.
But when people tell me, don't ever visit Saudi Arabia,
don't ever come to Egypt.
If you do and you're well known enough,
you may not ever get out of there alive.
And I'm thinking to myself, that is what I'm against.
I am against that.
And to me, it's that ridiculous
that an idea that thinking is wrong.
You know, it's wrong to think.
Yeah, yeah.
That's insane.
Even when I realized that, like I'm saying,
I didn't even know, right?
That if I don't like this religion,
I can bounce and check out of it.
But then what's the punishment
for checking out of this religion?
That's when I was like, this is actually a cult.
This is cultish behavior when the punishment for leaving
is death.
There is something severely wrong.
There is something severely wrong
that they don't want you to question
and they don't want you to examine it.
And it's just like, definitely heed that advice.
Do not go to those countries at all.
And this is a sad reality of the fact that
if we want to speak out now,
so many of these countries are just off limits.
Like I can't, my brother lives in one of these countries.
I can never go there and see him.
It's just a write-off.
And that is part and parcel of it,
which is just, it makes you realize even more
that what are they trying to keep so intact?
Because if you were to get rid of blasphemy laws,
if you were to get rid of the punishment for apostasy,
the world would be a different place, believe you me.
Like I think that is what keeps Islam what it is.
Yeah, I don't think it'd be the fastest growing religion,
that's for sure.
Because people would be able to actually talk about this.
And that's, I think, why Christianity is-
that's a birth rate thing anyway.
You know, it's not like people are,
oh, let me embrace Islam.
No, you're just having four wives and having 10 to your babies.
Or two or three, whatever, doesn't matter.
Yeah, whatever women are willing and interested in marrying you,
because they need security.
But there's a lot of that.
I mean, in every situation is different.
I went through Kuwait.
I was in Afghanistan in 2010.
I went over there and I was at Bagram on base,
working on the military base, did some contract work.
And on my way home, we went through Kuwait.
I wanted to go through Dubai just to see how beautiful the place was.
But we went through Kuwait.
And I had a few, they spoke Pashto.
Pashto, yeah?
Yeah, I had a few guys that spoke English and Pashto.
And I was like, hey, come with me and my brother.
So me and my brother, we're country boys from the South
in the United States of America.
We're in the middle of an Arabic country in Kuwait.
And we've got two guys we're trusting our lives with, honestly,
to be able to speak this language and translate and to talk to other people.
We don't know these guys from Adam, OK?
We go off base.
There's guys with the turbines.
It reminds me of Aladdin, you know?
You know, I've never seen this kind of crap in my life, you know?
But I'm like, this is cool, you know?
And I'm going to give you little funny things here.
I was, I went to go buy some food and I order something and they go,
where are you from?
You know, they don't know a lot of English.
And I'm like, from North Carolina, New York, New York.
All they know is New York.
Yeah, that's the end of the deal of the states, New York.
Yeah, New York, New York.
And I eat the meal and I'm hungry still.
Like, it's little, it wasn't a lot.
And they're like, more?
They all looked at each other like, he needs more?
What the heck?
He's still hungry?
And I'm like, yeah, I eat more than this usually.
It's normally what I do.
They're just shocked by the way we are.
And yeah, we were smoking the hookahs.
You know, like it was all cool and fun.
They have like Lamborghinis and Ferraris all over.
But the more kids they have as Kuwaiti citizens,
the more money they make.
Because every month the Kuwaiti government pays you for your citizenship.
Like they're an oil country, I think.
And they get like $2,000 something per person.
Now imagine popping out babies and making that much more paychecks a month.
Every month.
You've got 25 kids.
You have up to four wives.
Okay, 2,000 something times 29.
You know, you're talking a lot of money.
And they...
Yeah, it's heavily incentivized as well by the government then.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But there were like a lot of them dressed like Westerners there too.
So it's a mixed kind of culture.
Anywho, I just, I won't be going back ever.
Please don't.
Please don't.
Not now.
Right.
You're too far down the rabbit hole.
Exactly.
So someone, someone who might be watching this, might.
And I'd love to see someone who's a Muslim who's maybe sitting on the fence
or is asking questions and they're listening to us have this conversation.
What would you say to them?
What would you want to say to them before we go?
Like what would be your advice?
I honestly would say just...
I mean, literally just when you have these doubts, when these questions creep into your mind
and when you are confronted with things that, you know, you normally would push the back
of your mind to be a good Muslim, don't do that.
Like take that extra step.
Just...
And the thing is in Islam, especially when I was like literally on the fence of like,
do I leave all of this behind or do I actually follow what my mind and my heart is telling me
that the truth is elsewhere, it's not here, is that gatekeeping that keeps you in Islam.
There's apostasy, the punishment for it, the taboo.
But then there's also those imams and those clerics and their version and their answers.
When they try and give you answers and you accept it, but deep down in the back of your head,
you know that's not a good enough answer and you know they haven't answered your question
or it doesn't really make sense or you can't justify it or it's not logically sound.
Then follow that train of thought and read your text by yourself in your own language.
Whatever your mother tongue is, the Quran is available in almost every language now.
The internet, it's all our finger tips.
You do not need to go to your mosque, Imam.
You do not need to go to an elder.
Like by all means do that if you have to.
But follow your own like line of inquiry and your line of your train of thinking.
Read the text and come to a conclusion by yourself.
Like there is no need for a middleman.
If religion is personal and it's between you and your God,
see what that God has to say to you.
That's all I did was read the Quran in English and I could not justify what I was seeing.
And I don't need another man who's gatekeeping Islam to come and tell me that my
version or what my brain says when I read that is wrong and therefore I should stay in it.
No, that's all.
It's all part of keeping you from questioning.
And that's the biggest thing is when you think for yourself, that's their biggest fear.
Especially as a woman, when you realize that this religion,
it has nothing to offer you as a woman.
I'm sorry, not in this life, not even in the hereafter.
Like the Prophet said himself, the majority of
held well as a woman.
So where do we get any salvation ever?
But yeah, my honest, my honest, honest advice to any Muslim who's questioning is
please just trust your own mind and your own ability to question and your own ability to
judge what it is you're reading.
If you see something in your own language and it doesn't sit right with you, follow that.
Don't go to the Imam and be appeased by the answer that he tells you.
Yeah, that's what I would say pretty much.
That is your, that is your road to freedom.
Wow. Yeah, that was really, really powerful.
I hope someone watching that is impacted and will definitely look further into this.
There's plenty of content out there and material.
If you're really looking at trying to see if it's true,
that's something to inquire about.
I love going to the academics to try and understand the sources and things like that.
But at the end of the day, there's plenty of reasons if you're looking for
something outside of that fundamentalist world, you can easily find it.
And it's definitely there if you're willing to look.
Thank you so much.
Go over to her YouTube channel and make sure you guys subscribe.
Follow what she's doing.
You're on Twitter.
What else do you have?
What, where else are you at?
Yeah, I know at the moment just Twitter.
Twitter and YouTube is pretty much it right now.
Instagram is a bit crazy for me to open up.
So I haven't done that just yet.
But yeah, Twitter at Noria Kay and Holy Humanist on YouTube.
Absolutely.
Make sure you go down in the description.
Check out her links.
Go follow and support her.
And you do content a lot on your YouTube, I think.
I've been seeing notifications.
So yeah, yeah, it is.
So obviously, like it's I want to do more of these like kind of solo
informative educational like hard hitting videos of like topics that literally made me
leave like the one on slavery that I did was something I had been thinking about for so
long.
Like Muhammad Ali, why was he a Muslim?
Like how did he not know that they didn't slave black people?
But that was just such a personal topic to me.
And then when I actually put it on YouTube, I was like, oh, wow, like people really
lap this up.
People genuinely didn't know about the Arabic slave trade.
Like it was it was news to me at one point.
So yeah, I am trying to like, and then I've got like a Sunday show that I do with
Horace Sultan.
That's I think what you're getting notifications because we have some like
interesting conversations based on what's happening around the world.
But yeah, I'm hoping to actually be a lot more active in the coming weeks.
So yeah, just keep an eye out.
But thank you so much for having me, Derek.
This was such a such a fun conversation.
Thank you.
Almost cathartic.
Well, I'm glad you enjoyed it.
And I know everybody watching did.
Thanks a lot.
Go check her out in the description.
And ladies and gentlemen, if you just don't know who you are or where you are, whatever,
take it from me.
We are MythVision.
Ladies and gentlemen, I hope you enjoyed that show.
I have hundreds of other ones on the patron, letting you guys know you can help us continue
doing what we're doing at MythVision podcast.
Also, you can have questions asked the academics that I research with and I interview.
Your question can be asked in a 1080p high quality video that might end up on YouTube.
Like I said, ladies and gentlemen, I want to expose the Colts, show these superstitions for
what they are and the errors within these texts and all of these religions to help
people realize they're all manmade and that we have what it takes.
All we need to do is pull together.
Let me tell you something.
The religious world has the financial backing that those skeptics such as myself don't have.
So if you want to help and be a participant, you can for a little, little bit a month.
It's not much.
If you want to go more, you can.
But like I said, this is how I can keep the lights on for MythVision.
