All right, we are live myth-vision podcast.
I'm your host, Derek Lambert.
I have Rabbi Tovia Singer joining us again today.
And when we first started this entire series
and said, look, let's do this live stream,
he immediately set two dates up with me.
Because he said in the first one,
there's no way I'm gonna be able to cover all there is
to disclose or to reveal about what's going on
in the apostle Paul's writings
that is terrible or bad,
that is clearly working against what the religion,
we call Judaism is, the scriptures of the Hebrew Bible.
And he is highlighting things that I find are interesting.
And I'm hoping that you, the viewer,
can tune in, ask questions and learn something.
Try your best to understand where he's coming from
because he has a keen perception
that I typically wouldn't have.
And most people who are probably reading this literature
who come from a Christian background
wouldn't be able to pay attention to.
So with that being said, without further ado,
Rabbi Tovia Singer, welcome back to Myth-Vision, my friend.
Oh man, so good to be here.
How long has it been already?
One minute.
Since you've been a Jew.
One minute?
Okay, brother.
What, what, what did I say?
I didn't.
We're not on live, are we?
Dude, we're live.
We are live.
I didn't mean what I just said.
So his conversion to Judaism should not,
in any way, influence Myth-Vision
and you're subscribing and supporting it.
I am so sorry, Derek.
I did not want-
What is there to be sorry about?
You haven't said anything.
I didn't want to talk about your conversion to Judaism.
Right. On air.
And you asked me not to, it's really my apologies to you.
Total, he's an atheist
and you have nothing to worry about to just keep.
Right, right.
The gig is working.
Go ahead.
You know, Tovia, I love the humor
and you're always, you're always bringing that.
Look, people just don't know,
even in our private conversations,
he can't go without being humorous
and this is just the way he is.
In Israel, when we walked, went down to the Welling Wall,
whole nine, you are just like you are online in real life.
I just want to say something I thought about last night
as we were approaching this live stream.
I was thinking about you
because, you know, I can't stop thinking about you.
And I said, I said, you know,
I like to find common ground with you.
We have things we disagree with,
which everybody on planet Earth does except my wife.
I agree with everything my wife ever says
because, you know, that's how the world works.
But as far as what interests me
is if you look at Christian apologetics,
this is the kick it off.
Let's kick it off with a fun start.
Christian apologetics I've noticed over the years
want to position the New Testament literature
in a purely Jewish only framework.
And I feel like much of the work of the academics
behind MythVision have exposed the more Hellenistic,
the Greco-Roman infusion into maybe some Jewish concepts.
But then some even raw pure, what they would call pagan,
it's almost like a taboo or a cootie.
I can't have my Christian religion touch the pagan stuff.
It has to only come from Jewish antecedents.
And while it is in many ways,
I feel like you and me have a common ground
on seeing that pagan aspect
of much of the New Testament literature.
Do you agree or disagree?
Yeah, you know, people I think very quickly picked up
that, you know, Christianity is not just a sect of Judaism,
but Paul creates a completely different religion
out of the Jewish faith
and just using a very superficial,
a thumbnail of Judaism.
And Paul is the most influential figure,
the most important convert to Christianity.
And his influence, people usually think of just
the amount of contribution he made to the Christian Bible.
13 letters are attributed to him.
Another letter was believed by the church fathers
to be written by him.
Second Peter is there to support.
I mean, his influence is staggering.
But people don't realize this.
He was really pulling from Athens.
He was pulling from the Greco-Roman world,
not from the Jewish world.
It was a very different world.
And Jewish people can pick this up very quickly.
I'll just this very quick point.
I was lecturing in Fairfax, Virginia,
which is basically a suburb of America's capital,
lecturing at a temple.
And I met a fellow there who works in Washington
for the Secret Service.
He doesn't protect the president,
but he protects the currency of the United States.
He trains agents in Washington
how to detect counterfeit currency.
And I asked him, you probably have an amazing collection
of counterfeit currency confiscated over the years.
New agents learn all the stuff that's been done to,
and he said, Rabbi, stop.
That's not the way we train our agents here.
He said, what we do is we want the agents
to touch real money.
It's printed on a material.
There is nothing like it in the world.
There are fine line engravings on the US currency
and shifting water marks.
And the agents have to study real money.
What happens then if you dare put a counterfeit
in their hands, they will recognize it immediately.
This is very critical in what we're gonna be doing
on here today.
And that is, once you know the real thing,
once you have a familiarity with the Jewish faith,
the moment you crack open Paul,
the moment you open up the gospels,
you immediately recognize that you're looking
at a counterfeit, you're looking at an illegitimate
accretion of the Jewish faith.
And for those of you who are evangelicals,
all you have to do is open up the Book of Mormon
and you pick up what the problem was
of the church of Latter-day Saints
and you pick up what's wrong with Vatican, with Rome.
So that's how it is with the Jew.
We're looking at a text that's putatively
an outgrowth of the Jewish faith,
but we can immediately pick this stuff up.
So that's a good point.
It's an interesting observation.
I hope our audience can journey with us on.
And I'd like to dive into examples.
What better way than to begin with some things last week
when we did our live?
You gave us a few examples and we dove into those.
We dealt with Romans chapter nine,
mid verse, he cuts off quoting something from scripture,
which talks about you can do the law,
but Paul's emphasis over and over is that we can't,
no one can and yet Christ can for you.
So this new thing, this mystery being revealed
as you describe Paul's new Christ type gospel
that he fulfilled the law,
which I have so many questions about
where that idea comes from.
Like purely I'd be interested in finding the antecedent
to this notion that you can't do it.
Is this from a Greek and Roman source?
Does this go back to something else?
Where's Paul picking up this idea?
It's dualism.
In the ancient world, there's something
that you're gonna get for every scholar
that talks about religion.
And that is in the ancient world,
the people looked up at the sky
and they saw utter perfection.
They saw the planets, the celestial bodies,
they knew what they were looking at,
they understood that today that art is lost.
In contrast, they looked around them
and they saw suffering, pain and death
and broken bodies and broken wheels.
And they imagined this world as being created
by a God, a deity, but an inferior deity,
a demiurge, rather than the great God of the planets.
And that drove home the message to everyone
that you can't do it, you're nothing.
I mean, you're a sinner,
there's nothing you can do to make yourself right
by the one who created all those planets.
And therefore you need an intermediary.
You need a, I mean, this is not a book
that any of us think that Paul actually wrote,
but in 1 Timothy, Paul says there's one God
and one mediator between man and God
and that's the man, Jesus Christ.
So I'm not sure, but I doubt that Paul wrote
the pastoral epistles, as most people do,
but it is Pauline, Paul would have agreed with that.
Cause that's the theme, you can't do it.
And we talked about Romans chapter 10,
but Romans chapter 10 is not in the vacuum.
That's the message right throughout Romans.
Romans is the last indisputed letter of Paul.
It's also the most influential epistle of Paul.
Because if you can do it,
just think about this for a moment.
If there's something you can do
to make yourself right by God, then what do you need Jesus for?
That'll be like me selling you a fifth wheel.
Means there has to be a reason why you need Jesus.
If I can pray to God or confess my sins
and God will forgive me, then what do I need Jesus for?
What do I need Mary for?
And Jesus Mary, the saints,
all those are placing yourself
between you and God the Father.
And that's something that the Hebrew Bible opposes.
Moses got very nervous when the Jews said,
we really can't bear to hear the voice of God.
Why don't you tell us what God is saying
in Exodus chapter 20, after the 10 commandments.
So, and this didn't turn out well
when the Jews wanted a golden calf.
So that's what Paul was doing at every turn.
You can't do it.
You can't make it,
which resonates with people who self-esteem isn't strong.
Now we need to get into some textual stuff.
Let's get biblical as you titled your volume one
and volume two of your books.
And I'm interested in hearing, again,
other red flags in Paul's literature,
or even if you feel like that that's a narrow space
because many scholars point out Pauline influence
in the gospels, what sticks out to you, again,
that isn't just saying, here's a small slight spin-off
of a Hellenistic Jew, but it almost, to you,
screams much more of a malicious
or even more intentional anti-Judaism spin.
Just for our audience, if you don't mind,
Rabbi, just to make the point, emphasizing the question
is many people in the academic world will say,
Paul's intention, they're trying to read his mind,
wasn't a malicious one.
It was a bit of a replacement theology,
but he didn't intend to usurp all of Israel's identity
in this new creation or in the body of Christ.
Like he didn't realize what was going to happen
with his theology.
Some scholars think that the second century church fathers
took it, took that football, so to speak, the pig skin,
and ran the remainder 100 yards rather than
what Paul was doing was just initiating something
and then the door flung open beyond his control
and his initial intention.
So they interpreted him beyond his original understanding.
I'm curious to know what your take is on Paul
and diving into this as we go.
I know many of the New Testament scholars you have on
and we've had our conversations
and that's usually where we divide.
And that is that it is malicious
and Paul knows exactly what he's doing.
He's very deliberately blaming the Jews
for Jesus's crucifixion.
So on the one hand, Christ crucified is preached by Paul
insists that if the Jews had understood the mystery,
they would have never had Jesus crucified.
And this is mind blowing.
So we're gonna just deal with indisputed letters.
So that's first Corinthians two, verse seven and eight.
But let's take an epistle that's even older
than first Corinthians and almost as surely
the oldest surviving Christian literature,
verse Thessalonians, no one questions about,
no one questions whether Paul wrote that epistle.
He says in first Thessalonians, chapter two verse 14 through 16,
even as they are of the Jews who both
killed the Lord Jesus Christ and the Prophets
are contrary to all mankind
of bidding us and speaking to Gentiles.
That's mind blowing.
And this is the kind of stuff that anti-Semites
that the Westbury Baptist Church
in their protests in front of synagogues,
they have first Thessalonians up that passage.
So Paul on the one hand is talking about
preaching Christ crucified.
Paul on the one hand is laying out the theology
that would do so much damage to the Jewish faith.
And he's also preaching that the Jews
are uniquely responsible
for committing the unimaginable act of the aside.
I say this to you,
you talk about church fathers spreading anti-Semitism,
I disagree.
The church fathers were just reading the Christian Bible,
they were reading Christian literature
rationally, reasonably.
And Malito, an early church father, Jerome, bit later,
they all read this stuff and went,
all right, we hate the Jews.
And they all said the most obnoxious things
about the Jewish people and they were very rational.
So Paul is spreading the notion,
is peddling in Jew hatred, is peddling in the notion
that Jews are responsible for killing God.
And then on the other hand,
he's saying that that had to happen
and Jews didn't understand what he's doing.
So he stood, the Jew, he came as a Jew
to those who were not on the law.
He came as someone who's not on the law.
He's completely chameleon.
And then someone asked the question,
is Paul, did he mean well?
He meant what?
So of course he didn't mean it.
He was a malevolent character
and his influence had an astonishing effect,
not just on Marcion of second century Christian thinker
who was anti-Jewish, but the proto-Orthodox,
Ignatius, Irenaeus, I don't even have to name him.
So they were very rational.
I don't blame churchwives for hating us.
Of course they hate us.
They read this kind of discreet,
what are they, any rational person
would draw the same conclusion.
If I may press back just a little
to play devil's advocate,
imagining reading in Romans, the letter to the Romans,
where he says stuff like,
if I could be cut off for the sake of my kinsman,
according to the flesh,
like he sounds like he's pleading.
Like if we were in an in-group, out-group,
other, suppose Paul's arguing with other groups of Jews
who've rejected his Christ,
they see him as a stumbling block.
They're not able to accept what Paul's saying,
that he is remorseful in wishing they would get it.
Is it possible that we're pushing it too far
and thinking it's all malevolent
rather than misinterpreting his intentions?
He thinks he's doing the right thing.
Even if those on the outside are saying,
no, what you're doing is destroying this
and causing more hate toward us
because there's this in-group fighting
between two different groups of people,
whether they're Christ follower, Torah worshiper,
not worshippers, but Torah following Jews,
versus him pushing his non-Torah form.
If you get what I'm trying to say is,
is it possible to give him a little bit of lax
and say, hey, he thinks he's not doing this harm,
but he is arguing with other Jewish groups?
So the question is, why do bigots speak differently
in front of different audiences?
The answer is, what letter are we talking about?
Exactly, you mentioned the book of Romans.
Who are the recipients for the book of Romans?
In the audience, he has never met.
When he wrote the book of Romans in the late 50s,
Paul had not yet visited Rome.
Who is in Rome to receive his letter?
We know, because he addresses them Jews and non-Jews.
Therefore, we would expect, anticipate,
that in the book of Romans,
Paul's going to be very careful about what he says.
Why?
Because Jews are listening.
In fact, he addresses them very Jews
in Romans chapter seven.
So of course, in Romans chapter three, verse two,
Paul's going to say the kind of thing
that the oracles of God were given to the Jews.
Of course, he's going to say all those three things
when he's speaking to a mixed crowd.
But when he's writing to other groups,
when he's writing to Galatians,
or we're talking about Thessalonians,
well, first Thessalonians wasn't written
to a Jewish crowd at all.
So there he can be unguarded.
He can spew, and it's what we see.
You could see these alt-right people,
when they're being interviewed in the major media,
they're going, we're not that,
but when they speak to their own people, the bigotry.
So therefore, that's what's happening.
Romans, Paul is very careful about,
do you think I'm really against the law?
Am I against it?
No, heaven forbids.
And you can have chapters in Romans, like chapter 11,
where people will interpret it to mean
that Paul's rejecting replacement theology.
But that's Romans.
That's because who he's writing it to.
Incidentally, these titles of the books,
these letters are titles of who the audience is.
This was the fashion of the time that Paul was using.
So right when he's speaking in first Thessalonians,
he's writing to an audience he didn't have to worry
that Jews would be listening.
When he's writing to Rome,
he knew Jews were listening,
he had to be very careful about what he said.
That explains the whole deal.
He's speaking to two audiences.
That's why Paul's gonna play games with Hosea.
I mean, in Romans chapter nine, verse 25,
Paul's going to say that,
even though the Gentiles shouldn't be chosen,
but there's a prophecy.
Those who are not my people will be called my people.
He's totally misquoting the book of Hosea,
the last passages of Hosea chapter two.
I mean, that's just another example of this insanity.
So Hosea is living in the northern kingdoms,
lived at the same time as Isaiah, a Syrian empire,
and Hosea in chapter one, married a prostitute,
he's told to name his children,
according to the doom, the pending doom
of the northern kingdom of Israel,
who are gonna be set to be carried off
by the Syrian empire.
And so the names that he's ordered to give his kids
is one of them is, you're not my people, lo am I.
In chapter two of Hosea, there's a prophecy,
that one day the 10 lost tribes will be restored,
and those who are not my people will be called my people,
children of the living God.
Paul completely misappropriates that in Romans chapter nine,
and says that's referring to Gentiles.
Any, look, even a perfunctory reading of Hosea,
it's really not complicated.
You know that who Hosea is speaking about.
He's not speaking about who Paul says he's speaking about.
So there's just an example of how Paul misappropriates
the Hebrew Bible, but I will say this,
you don't wanna depend on me,
you can read the stuff for yourself,
just read the text, look up the footnotes,
look up the cross-reference.
So this is an interesting point,
I wanna just highlight the work of Jason Staples,
but also the non-academic ideas that float around there,
that Paul, and I say non-academic,
because there's the closest you can get is Jason Staples
in the field of New Testament studies,
and that is there are people out there
who suggest Paul might be actually trying
to identify his Gentiles as lost Israelites in some way.
So you might have Josephus think they're beyond the Euphrates,
the 10 tribes innumerable and count,
there seems to be this well-established idea
or motif that they're out there,
and we're gonna regather them, and I agree with you,
but that Paul is actually misappropriating this scripture,
applying it to these non-Jews,
and why I disagree with this position,
but based on meaning that they're actually Israelites,
is that if these were really Israelites,
and Paul thought they were,
he wouldn't have told them not to participate in Torah.
They're fricking Israelites, that would have been the norm,
that would have been like, hey man, come back in,
this is what you do,
this was what we were given.
So I'm not convinced or persuaded
that necessarily Paul thinks that his Gentiles,
his audience are actually lost Northern Israelites
in some way, or any other version you might wanna craft.
There are Judah Heights that are apostatized or something.
There are people out there who think that.
So I just wanted to make that clarification
because I've engaged with groups
who think that online for a while now.
Right, Paul doesn't think that role,
and Paul's view is that the law is only a shadow
in the essence of Christ.
Paul makes the case not that you don't have to keep the law
because your non-Jews and the law only applies to Jews.
That's not Paul's view at all.
In fact, in a passage that's so famous,
1 Corinthians 9, 23, 22,
Paul says that to those who are under law,
I become as one who's under law,
when Paul is Jewish, even though I'm not under the law,
so Paul does not view the law
as something that intrinsically has to be kept,
but rather it's only a shadow, the essence is Christ.
So that's not Paul's view at all.
Paul's view is that no one has to keep ritual law,
ritual law, not the moral law.
And he is misappropriating the book of Oseh
that's referring to the 10 Northern tribes.
He doesn't think he's talking to 10 Northern tribes.
He's rather explaining why Gentile should be in it.
Moreover, Paul in Romans chapter seven,
who he addresses to Jews, and he says so, his brethren,
he says that they don't have to keep the law at all.
Using a widow as a metaphor,
widows are not obligated to maintain
the vows of their marriage.
Paul totally opposes keeping of the law.
And that's why it exploded.
That's why Christianity succeeded.
How did it become a world religion?
Because you gave people Judaism, in essence,
without circumcision, without keeping the commandments
and bingo, amen.
Where do I sign up?
It was brilliant.
Are there any other examples you could think of
that stick out to you?
This is very critical, you know, his misuse of faith.
Look, every time you speak to a Christian
and the issue of faith comes up,
you have to have faith, Paul completely misuses that.
This comes up in all of his letters.
Faith means the following, Derek.
You're on the road in the middle of night,
at four o'clock in the morning, your car breaks down.
You call me up.
It's not a great neighborhood.
And you ask me, I'm in a bad situation, okay?
Could you come and, you know, could you get me?
Because my car won't start, this is a bad neighborhood.
You don't have faith that I exist.
You have faith that I'll come to me and I say, okay, Derek,
I'm in my car, in my pajamas, and I'm gonna come get you.
So that's what faith is.
Faith is trust.
It does not mean you don't have to keep the law anymore.
That comes up constantly.
It's a complete misappropriation of a very beautiful word,
a misappropriation of Habakkuk chapter two, verse four.
Faith in Tanakh does not mean that you believe in God
or you don't have to keep the ritual laws.
Faith means that you trust that God will keep his promise.
There's no greater misappropriation than that.
All the other things are just a side issue.
The Habakkuk chapter two, cross-reference that
to Romans chapter 117, Galatians three,
this is all over everywhere, is this misappropriation
of this very attractive word called faith.
And we've long known at MythVision that hell
or even the afterlife kind of ideas that we find
in Christianity and New Testament,
in the New Testament it starts popping up
that these ideas are absent from Hebrew scripture.
And so I'd like to ask you pertaining to salvation.
It's my understanding that the word salvation,
if you're diving into the Hebrew Bible,
it often is an earthly situation,
typically in a real life, life or death or I need food
or whatever might be like what we on a day-to-day experience.
And what happens in the New Testament has become salvific
and some sotereological, I guess what we would call
a doctrine of salvation rather than like a real life scenario.
Do you see any, I guess you'd say manipulations there
or discrepancies that you'd like to highlight about salvation?
Derek, you and I are gonna invent a religion
because we want to make a lot of money
and there's a ton of money in religion, a ton.
You're not sure, look at these prosperity preachers
and look at the suits they wear and the shirts.
I mean, right, so we're gonna make up a religion,
you and me, okay, and we're gonna spread it around.
We're gonna make a fortune on this.
Okay, what are we gonna tell people?
We're not gonna tell people that we are gonna control
the weather, that there's gonna be a hurricane.
We're not gonna tell them that your armies
will lose on the battlefield because we can't control that.
What are you and I going to do?
I'm Moses, you're my Joshua, you're my right-hand man.
We're inventing a religion.
Well, what we have to do is threaten them
that they're gonna go to hell if they don't listen to us
and they'll go to heaven, eternal paradise if you listen to us.
Why?
Because it's unfalsifiable, untestable.
What is Leviticus 26 trying to do?
Famous chapter, The Blessings and the Curses.
God is saying that, listen to me,
I'm gonna show you the right way.
But if when the text in Leviticus wants to threaten you,
it doesn't tell you about heaven and hell,
you're exactly correct, Eric.
The text says that it's just gonna stop raining
if you turn away from it, and if it stops raining,
you're not gonna have anything to eat,
your cattle's gonna die, your wives are gonna stop having children,
you're gonna lose on the battlefield.
So this is so simple, people make a big deal about this.
If you're inventing a religion
and you know that God has nothing to do with it,
you're always going to threaten the biggest fear people have,
what happens after you die,
you're gonna always threaten them with heaven and hell.
You're not gonna do what the five books of Moses does
in Leviticus 26 and Deuteronomy 28
and other similar chapters.
You're not gonna say that you're gonna lose
when you go to battle because Derek and Tovea
do not control history.
So that's why Tanach is very inclined to say,
look, this is what's gonna happen,
you're gonna be exiled 70 years,
you're gonna return back, you'll be exiled again
for a very long time and eventually you'll come back.
These are highly falsifiable threats.
So that's what the Torah is.
It's not that Tanach is not interested in heaven and hell,
it's just not interested in threatening it.
There are very few references to the resurrection there,
but they're not a threat, never a threat.
The threat is something that you could see.
I mean, people who smoke do drugs.
There are effects that people are,
I'm dying, I gotta quit, I gotta quit drinking.
Why?
Because you don't have to wait till the liver gives out.
People can see the symptoms during their lives
and just turn away from whatever it is.
So that's why Tanach is not interested in the afterlife.
And if I may add just this one thing
before we get to questions,
cause people here always have deep questions.
And if we don't start now, you know how it is.
You like to be thorough
and make sure you answer people's questions.
And of course, I don't want to abuse your time
here on Mithish and so I appreciate that.
The one comment I'd make,
I'm doing a documentary right now on demons or demons,
showing how this shows up in the New Testament.
And what I love to do, Rabbi,
is I like to lay out Christianity in the time
and the cultural historical milieu
in which it arises and compare it with other salvation cults,
with other stories of people who heal the blind,
heal the lame, the deaf, the crippled, raise the dead.
And then now I'm doing one on demons
to show Jesus is not the only guy in town out here
casting out demons in a Greco-Roman context.
And there's also Jewish literature
that discusses some of this.
But I say all that to say,
to me, the New Testament is a product of its time
that you can find the elements around in the air,
around in the Greco-Roman cults of the day.
And also in many of the well-established mythos, heroes,
I'll call them philosophers and such
that did many of the deeds you see that look similar.
I'm not trying to claim zeitgeist,
like the Xerox copy, identical prints or anything.
They're all different, every one of them.
But this Jesus character in the gospels picks up all of this
and I think Paul's already laying a blueprint for that
in his letters that he's writing to non-Jews.
And so I think we can find a lot of that,
which might help us to answer where these things come from.
Just one comment.
The Christian Bible goes so far with devils
and demons and Satan,
that there's an interesting cross-reference
between Mark and Luke,
where the Jews accused Jesus
of actually being possessed by a devil.
And Mark, Jesus simply responds to that,
but Luke 1119, which is a cross-reference,
Luke adds a piece and that is,
what are you talking about a Satan,
you know, that there's a devil in me,
don't your own sons, don't your own judges,
don't you Jews also cast out demons?
So that's a very interesting commentary
that the author of Luke is saying,
if casting out the devil is a sign that you have a devil
and you had to explain that you Jews
are able to cast out devils,
a very unique source that differs sharply from the other.
So this is a very interesting topic.
Thank you, thank you.
Let's get to super chats here.
I do appreciate your time
and always enjoy learning from you,
getting your perspectives.
Aubrey VanZill, thank you for being here again
and super chatting us.
Paul, correct.
God resorted to rebirth because law wasn't working.
Ezekiel 36, 26, 27.
I will give you a new heart and put a new spirit in you.
I will put my spirit in you
and move you to follow my decrees.
So I think they're saying Paul's correct, I imagine.
That's the point.
That text is found not only in Ezekiel 36,
but it's also in Ezekiel 11.
That means I'm gonna give you a heart of flesh,
take out the heart of stone
and what will be the result.
Look also Ezekiel 37, verse 24 and 25.
And you will keep my laws and my statutes.
I mean, I don't know why the church misses this.
So these are messianic chapters at the messianic age.
All the Jews are going to keep the Torah,
keep the commandments.
And how do Christians look at these texts,
like the one just quoted here,
and ignore that, that the messianic picture is,
like it was just a Super Bowl, right?
And the big discussion before Super Bowl,
who's going to win?
By the way, I don't follow sports.
I don't even know who was in it,
but it was a big deal, I'm sure.
But once the Super Bowl is over, you know who won,
you know who lost.
So the text in Ezekiel 36, you quoted from,
says that you'll keep my statutes and my laws.
Yet the church says, Jesus have filled the law for you,
you don't have to keep them anymore.
And it blows my mind away
that people just see the part of the heart of flesh,
not the heart of stone,
but fail to see the consequences of that.
So bingo, there you go.
Look at these texts.
Look at the text in Ezekiel 37, 36, Ezekiel 11,
they're going to keep the Torah.
I hope they hear that at Dal's Theological Seminary,
at Mooda Bible Institute in the Vatican.
Thank you, thank you.
Ben West, thank you for the super chat.
Dr. Brown says Isaiah 53 refers to the Messiah.
Radak wrote 42 talks about the Messiah.
Can't be Israel because of their sin.
How do you refute this?
What does 53.5 mean by his stripes we are healed?
Or we were healed, sorry.
Always ask the question, who is speaking?
And if you don't know who is speaking
in the 53rd chapter,
you don't have a chance of understanding these passages.
The first eight passages,
verse 83 is a syllogically announced
by the Gentile kings of nations,
where they conclude that Jewish suffering
is not for what they originally thought
because of they suffered as a result
because they denied our gods or whatever,
but rather it's two things.
Jewish suffering causes us to repent,
to return back to God.
By his stripes, we were healed.
By his stripes, we were healed.
I mean, who is the servant?
You're my witnesses, the Clairs of the Lord,
my servant who I've chosen, Isaiah 43, verse 10.
Number two is Isaiah 53, verse eight.
Mi pesha ami naga lamo,
for the transgressions of my people,
they were stricken, that's mind-blowing,
they were stricken.
Plural, and the church just changes it.
Plural, lamo means to them.
It blows my mind away, but I want you to know this.
If you are a Christian and wish to stay in the church,
don't read the chapters that introduce Isaiah 53.
If you want to remain in good standing in your church
and not be thrown out,
don't read Isaiah 41 through 52
because, and then you just keep going to church.
If you read it in context, you have no problem with it.
And it blows my mind away also
that Christian apologists will quote rabbis routinely
if they think it can help them,
but condemn these rabbis is not the word of God
and they don't believe in the oral law.
So they're dealing in a world of unequal weights
and measurements, I never would do that.
I would never quote a Talmud to prove to you
why you shouldn't be a Christian, that's silly.
So that's, look, as soon as you hear any Christian
quoting Talmudic literature to defend Christianity,
that's a red flag, that means run,
not walk, run for your life, that's a scam.
So good point, thank you.
Thank you, thank you.
Aubrey VanZill again, Paul correct.
Servant in Isaiah 52, 53, dies to pay for our sin,
stated 10 times, 53, eight,
that he was cut off from the land of the living
for the wrongdoing of my people to whom the blow was due.
So you didn't read it right.
Where's the word payment?
I mean, you do find the idea that Jesus paid the price
in Paul's letters, but let's translate it.
Mepeshami, this is the last four Hebrew words
of Isaiah 3, Mepeshami nega lamo.
Do you speak Hebrew?
For the transgression of my people, they were stricken.
They were stricken.
What happened is you change it,
just like why in Isaiah 48 is the word lamo translated
correctly, but incorrectly in 53.
And again, just keep relying on your King James,
your new international version,
and you will remain in the church.
Keep quoting from the Talmud,
keep quoting from the Radaq out of context.
That's exactly how you stay in the church, exactly.
Thank you, thank you.
You are laying out the blueprint
on how to stay in the church today.
Right, don't read any of the context,
just keep quoting from the Talmud
and all these other things, just do that,
and you'll stay in the church.
That's exactly what you need to do.
Thank you, thank you.
Masora, thank you for the super chat.
What's the silent abomination told in Daniel many times?
Is the temple for Jupiter that Hadrian built?
Christianity in general, or something yet to come?
Daniel views many kingdoms that seek to destroy Israel.
In Daniel chapter seven alone,
we have four kingdoms, one after the other,
that seek to destroy the Jewish people.
The ultimate, the final, most destructive
of all the kingdoms is Edom, Rome, the fourth beast,
the 10 horns and the 11th horn, the little horn.
Daniel chapter 11, in Jewish tradition,
that's a direct reference to the church
who would not be fond of the beauty of a woman,
the celibacy, rejecting the laws and the times
found in Daniel chapter seven.
What would emerge that would reject the Jewish calendar?
That's what happened to Council Nicaea,
and I think if I asked your viewers,
what happened to Council Nicaea,
every one of you would know that the church adopted
the doctrine of trinity as orthodoxy.
The very few people wouldn't know
that it was at that same Council
that the church would reject the Jewish calendar
and assign Easter to a solar calendar.
So rejecting the law, rejecting the time,
so that's the great abomination,
the great enemy of the Jewish people.
We have whole books in the Hebrew Bible devoted
to describing the destruction of Edom,
the final and placable foe of Israel.
Good question.
Thank you, thank you, appreciate the super chat.
Aubrey VanZill again, Paul correct.
Servant rises from dead.
Dead sea scroll 5311, he will see light and be satisfied.
Light idiom for life, see Job 3328.
He has redeemed my soul from going to the pit
and my life shall see the light.
So all I would encourage, I mean,
quote Isaiah 5311, whoever you are, thank you.
That's the point.
What does the text say?
How will the servant vindicate the just for many?
The text says, bedato yatzik sadik avdil rabbim.
Really, carefully, bedato, what is das?
By his knowledge, my servant will vindicate
the just for many, by his knowledge.
It doesn't say bedamo, it doesn't say by his blood,
by his knowledge, right?
The Jewish people are lighted nations.
I just say this, instead of going to pastor Google
and copying and pasting, forget that.
I mean, don't you want to be free of these shackles?
Don't you want to break free of, I mean,
don't you want to get out of prison?
So in order to do that, just go.
You know what, forget Pastor Google or Rabbi Google.
Just go to Rabbi Isaiah and the text,
Isaiah 53 verse nine through 12,
the last four passages, God is speaking,
and he's explaining by what means is the servant,
the second message of mention of the servant
in these 15 passages.
The servant will vindicate the just for many,
not by his blood, not by the cross, not by Calvary,
but by his knowledge of lighted nations.
Just pay attention to that.
So look at the text, take a deep breath
and find your way into the mind of Isaiah.
It'll help.
Thank you, thank you.
100, 100, 100, that's the name.
Was it common for Second Temple Jewish interpretations
to be a little out there?
How odd would less straightforward interpretations be,
i.e. Paul be?
Sorry, by i.e. Paul be.
So did you get the question or did you want me to repeat it?
I just would say this.
So I think I'm gonna rephrase what he's asking.
And I'm taking a liberty here,
but I kind of could sniff this out.
And it's a very fair question.
I think the question essentially,
isn't there an idea that you can have a homily on the text
that's not the plain meaning of the text?
Isn't that something that could be found in Jews?
And the answer is absolutely.
But two points, Ayn Micra Yehse Elimideh Pshutah,
a text can never depart from its,
you know the translation called the Pshitah.
What does that mean?
Well, you've heard of the Pshitah.
That's one simple word, which means Pshat.
It's simple, plain meaning.
A homily can't do violence to the plain,
simple meaning of the text.
So yeah, you couldn't say that God would restore
the Jewish people from Jeremiah chapter 29, verse 10.
And also there'd be another restoration,
but the other restoration is spelled out very clearly
in Hoseah chapter three, verse four and five.
So you can't do violence to it.
Number two is just a careful point.
There's a difference between a homily and apologetics.
And this people can blur this line repeatedly.
Homily is a speech you make in the pulpit,
but apologetic, I wanna convince you of something.
You can only use material that you and I agree on.
I mean, imagine a Mormon trying to convince you
to join the church a lot of day, saying to me,
I said, well, why?
He says, well, look at the Book of Mormon.
You'd go, that's not persuasive
because you don't agree on those texts.
So it's very important that in apologetics,
you look at the plain meaning.
These, the Book of Romans is an apologetic work
and it's misappropriating the text
and doing violence of the plain meaning of the text.
And that's deeply problematic.
I think you hit the nail on the head as well last week
when you brought up Platonism
and how influential Platonic philosophy was at this time,
especially by these authors,
because even the church fathers start to do
to their own texts in a very spiritual manner,
not the plain reading,
and they start to misappropriate their own literature
due to their more ascetic ways of philosophy.
So eventually you have guys like Augustine coming in,
going with the Book of Revelation.
No, no, no, no, no, this is all symbolic.
It completely, there's no actual meaning
to what's being said here in many ways.
It's very spiritual and they start to futurize
a lot of these books that actually intended
to have first century, late first century,
early second century significance.
And I find it ironic that that kind of philosophy creeps in
to both Jewish thought as well as Christian thought
at the time, meaning Paul.
The claim of the church is that there are 365 prophecies
in the Old Testament that clearly speak about Jesus.
That sounds familiar to you, Derek, right?
That's the claim.
I'm not straw manning this.
The claim is not in the Talmud.
The claim is that there are explicit prophecies
in the Old Testament, all point to Jesus,
and therefore you should get baptized.
And then we look at these proofs,
and what we find is 365 scandals,
and then we do the arithmetic.
365 times zero, you know the rest of it.
That's why these are not persuasive.
What we're doing in the church is making a fantastic claim.
Doesn't mean it isn't true,
but fantastic claims require reasonable evidence.
When we look up this evidence,
we not only don't find what the claim is,
what was advertised, it's scandalous.
You can't then go, well, there were second temple Jews
that came up with homilies that didn't.
That's not the point.
You're selling me on this.
If Amazon would ship you something that you didn't order,
but you'd send it back immediately and complain.
Send it back.
Thank you so much.
Rick Mueller, how did the pagans view Judaism?
Was it seen as exotic, therefore novel?
And more interesting than the old fashioned
Greco-Roman pantheon?
So you're asking about how did the pagans?
Obviously it varied.
The word pagan just means people who didn't live
in the city, lived in the suburbs.
So I don't know what period you're referring to,
but in the Greco-Roman world,
I think that generally speaking,
there was that Judaism enjoyed a lot of respect
in certainly the Roman Empire.
In the ancient world, they knew that Alexander the Great,
who they revered had a relationship with the Jews.
They knew the Jews were a people of antiquity.
They really appreciated that.
And they didn't appreciate the emperors of Rome frequently.
And they saw in Judaism, they're completely novel
and unique and the anti-Semitism that you see about you
that is not what was in the empire.
The Jews went to war with Rome over issues like taxes
and so on.
So I think, so your question you're asking
is very, very broad.
I think that in the Roman Empire,
there was a general respect for the Jews.
Incidentally, Judaism was a licent religion.
Jews did not have to bring sacrifices to the gods
as non-Jews were required to.
They were off the hook.
They had a dispensation.
And that's why in truth, although the church fathers
did not appreciate the Jews,
the Antinousian church fathers,
it didn't matter what Ignatius or Irenaeus said about Jews
because they had no power.
It was just rhetorical.
After Constantine's conversion to Christianity
in the fourth century
and after the church becomes a licent religion
and by the end of the fourth century,
the official religion of the empire.
So then the Jews weren't a lot of trouble
because then what was said by the now,
by the end of the fifth century,
excuse me, the fourth century,
I don't know, it could be half of the empire
was Christian, perhaps, I don't know, it was large.
Now the Jews aren't a lot of trouble.
So earlier on the first century,
I think the Jews were viewed,
we don't have a lot of literature on this,
but it seems that the Jews were viewed rather positively.
And I imagine the context of whose authoring
are writing at the time,
because I know there were polemics that were going on,
but yeah, I think there were sympathizers for sure,
meaning they were attracted to the way.
And oftentimes you had these people, we call Godfors,
a category that's inscribed on synagogues
and such of those who were non-Jews
finding attraction to this religion.
And it wasn't like, I mean, I'm not gonna say
that there weren't possibly historically
some people trying to proselytize,
but it was not the modus operandi
of this particular religion to go around and seek converts.
There's a jab in the gospels,
whether that's historical or not,
a Pharisee's doing something like that, maybe, maybe not.
Hard for me to trust, but it could be,
but yeah, there's not that agenda to proselytize
like you find neatly embedded in Christianity.
The issue that, I mean, sophisticated thinkers
would have had with Judaism is,
how could you possibly believe
in the physical resurrection of that?
That was a big one.
Cicero's a sixth volume of the republic
where he goes off on this.
What are you talking about?
No one in the ancient world thought that,
like who would wanna return back to your retribody
and Socrates happily drank the hemlock
being knowing that he would be soon rid
of his physical body.
That's why Christianity is the first one
to incorporate their demigod resurexment
that rather than ascends.
Everyone's ascends, but Christianity is going
to go hard on this because it really does have
to synchronize Judaism with Christianity.
So it's not good enough for Jesus just to ascend
and even Paul's iteration,
where he does not mention empty tomb,
that's not good enough.
And we're gonna see in the gospels
where Jesus physically resurrects,
not so much in Mark because we don't have an encounter
in the authentic Mark with the disciples,
but certainly Matthew, certainly in Luke
and certainly in John, we need to push this point.
Jesus, the physical resurrection touches flesh,
doubting Thomas, so that's why Christianity is alone
in having his God resurrecting the dead
rather than ascending like Romulus did as an example.
Thank you, thank you, appreciate that.
Aubrey Van Zills back again, Isaiah 49.
I checked context very carefully.
Servant as remnant doesn't fit
because then the remnant must save the remnant.
Only fit is God's firstborn son, C. Isaiah 96,
for a child will be born to us.
Right, so as it turns out, we don't have those words.
And Isaiah 49 distinguishes the servant.
What's the difference in the servant and the rest of Israel?
Just think about that.
What's the difference in what does the servant even mean?
Avdi, my servant, right?
The servant doesn't mean every Jew.
Doesn't mean whatever, whoever fill in the blank,
whatever your favorite Jew is.
It means those who are loyal to God.
Isaiah 49, verse six.
Let's stay with the passage.
What is the role of the servant?
The servant is the righteous remnant of the Jews.
Those are loyal.
What do they have to do?
Lehochim eshifteyakov, they have to restore
the tribes of Jacob and go to the end of the verse.
I'm using the verse you're picking
and to be in Oral Aguiam.
So let's figure this out.
The remnant of the Jews who are loyal to God
rather than the rest of the Jews have two mandates.
Mandate number one is they must bring back
the rest of the Jews who are lost.
Doesn't mean just the 10 tribes.
It means the Jews who are not that religious
who are not committed to the faith.
Number one, number two is a gentile.
So this is an argument that Christians always make.
How could Israel save Israel?
It doesn't say that.
What it says is that the servant means the remnant
has to bring back the rest of the Jews.
Two has to bring back the Gentiles.
And that argument is made frequently all the time.
Israel can't save Israel.
Therefore, it must be speaking about Christ.
Nonsense.
It's the remnant, please.
I mean, I want to keep these answers short.
Read Zephaniah 3, 12 through 16.
If you read Zephaniah 3, 12 through 16,
you'll get it all there.
Because that prophet will live maybe two centuries
after Isaiah, described as vividly as possible.
So good point, Isaiah 49, 6, exactly correct.
Thank you so much.
Adam Green asks, is James Paul, or James and Paul,
teach version of a Noahide Laws, Acts 15?
Acts 15, yes.
I mean, I don't know that Acts 15 is historical.
I don't think it is the way it's framed.
But yes, that's what's in view in Acts 15.
What's in view there for the audience,
and I'm familiar with this very important chapter,
is Gentiles are joining this new religion, whatever.
They're believing in Jesus.
The word Christianity does not appear
in the Christian Bible.
So the question is, if you're a Gentile
and you want to become, let's use this today.
Let's say you're a non-Jew and you want to become a,
God forgive me, a Hasidic Jew.
Well, you do have to convert to Judaism
if you want to become a Hasidic Jew, right?
Of course you do.
So the question is, if you want to join the group
of believers in Jesus, and to be a Christian,
we're gonna just use that term.
What do you have to convert to Judaism?
Meaning, do you have to be certified
and keep the commandments?
And Acts 15 is an ecumenical council
with the leaders of the church,
all the important people are there,
and they agree upon that, yes, you're right,
you nailed it, that you have to keep the Noah had laws,
you have to live the prohibition
against eating strangled meat, which is very interesting.
And in Acts 15, you have the prohibition
of eating flesh of an animal that was sacrificed to idols,
which is forbidden to an Eucharist.
Now, why is that interesting?
And I'll bet many people in the chat room
could tell me why this is very interesting,
that in Acts 15, it is resolved that it's forbidden
for non-Jews to eat from meat of an animal
sat offered to the gods.
But why should that strike you as strange?
It should strike you as very strange,
first Corinthians eight, that's exactly what comes up.
And Paul says there, you know,
we had this conversation earlier,
Paul is speaking in one book this way
and another book that way, bingo,
Paul goes, yeah, you could eat that,
because that was the question that came up,
can you eat the flesh of an animal offered to idols?
Paul says, look, you know the idol doesn't mean
anything, of course you can.
What about Acts 15?
Well, Paul never saw Acts 15, that's why it's authentic,
although this is obviously an issue in the early church.
So yes, what they have from you is no-achide laws,
that's what's resolved,
and Paul pays no attention to it.
Thank you so much.
Aubrey Van Zyl, Paul correct.
The flames coming down on Pentecost
was the third temple inauguration.
God now lives in people fulfilling Zechariah 6, 11 through 15,
also predicting name of Messiah as Joshua or Yeshua
became Jesus.
I really encourage you to read Zechariah,
the person who's Yeshua is not Jesus.
It's the nephew of Ezra, his name is Yeshua Ben Yhotsadok,
he was one of two people that led the return
of the Jewish people from the Babylonian exile.
So yeah, there are quite a number of people in Tanakh
with the name Yehoshua,
Yeshua would be a truncated version of it,
but Yehoshua was the son of Yehotsadok.
Who is Yehotsadok?
I mean, look, I just ask you,
stop with Rabbi Google, really.
Just read these chapters for yourself.
Yehotsadok was the brother of Ezra,
who accompanies Zerubovil in rebuilding the second temple.
This is very plain, it's right there in the text.
And moreover, Zechariah envisions a time of peace
and restoration, which didn't happen in times of Jesus,
but no, just because someone shares the name,
doesn't mean every person with the name Yehoshua
in Tanakh is Jesus.
So I strongly encourage you to look at those texts, surely.
And just one interesting comment, if you don't mind,
and maybe you want to comment on this or not,
is the idea that Pentecost was the third temple inauguration.
Oh, no. That's quite an interesting statement to make,
in my opinion.
I've never heard even Christians try to say
that was that temple inauguration,
but it's very weird that you had,
according to the timeline of the text,
I personally take acts and put it in the second century,
the temple's gone already.
But according to the story,
the temple's literally still standing in Jerusalem.
So I know that doesn't matter
when you make up an unfalsifiable temple,
being a body of people that's spiritual
that you can't see with naked eyes, you know,
but it just is kind of odd to me.
I'll add just something into this mix.
Like this is one of those where you don't know where to begin.
So in Ezekiel 41 through the end of the book,
the final third Messianic Temple comment to view.
I'd encourage people to read it,
because we have the unused blueprints of the final temple.
Right?
This can be built not far from where I live.
44 verse nine, very specifically describing that temple,
no one who is uncircumcised of the heart
or the flesh will be able to enter into that sanctuary.
I don't know if you heard that.
No one, please, and I beg people, look it up for yourself,
no one who is uncircumcised, both of the heart and the flesh
will be able to enter into that sanctuary.
Well, as it turns out,
Christianity says that circumcision is unnecessary
and Paul warns people that if you really insist
on circumcision, why don't you just cut the whole thing off
in Galatians chapter five, verse 12.
So there's nothing you really,
I encourage you to look it up for yourself.
There's nothing magic here,
like the texts I'm discussing with you
are accessible to everyone.
It's not like the ancient world
was hard to get your hands on a book.
You can look it up, look it up for yourself.
Thank you so much.
I'm gonna ask this super chat Rabbi
and then you need to use the restroom,
if that's all right, briefly.
Jonathan Stein, Rabbi, given modern archeology,
considering the fact that we find Yahweh and El
and Babylonian and other pagan traditions,
why shouldn't I be an atheist?
And I'll be right back, Rabbi.
All right, so we would expect to find the name Al
in all the religions throughout the Levant and beyond,
Baal and so on, because the word Al means power.
In English parlance, in English language,
you would say almighty.
That's a word that any religious person would know.
So that's what the name Al conveys.
In fact, in the Bible,
you have Moses being told in Exodus chapter seven,
verse one, that he will be an Elohim to Pharaoh
and Aaron will be your prophet and Exodus 21 and 22,
judges are given the name.
So the word Al conveys power.
That's why my friends, in Genesis chapter one,
the name Elohim is used exclusively,
no other name of God.
The tetragrammaton is unique
and that only applies to the God of Israel.
Now, think about this for a moment.
Would it strike you as odd
that other religions might borrow from Judaism?
Think about that, look around you.
As it turns out, more than half the world's population
believes that the Hebrew Bible is holy.
Well, that's strange, right?
So I granted that people in history borrow from Judaism
and I don't know what country you're from,
but wherever it is, I'm fairly certain
that the people around you are misappropriating ideas
that were originally found in the Jewish faith.
Now, it is true that there are two views here
and you might want to consider them.
One view is the Jewish view
and that is that we brought monotheism to the world
and other religions then adopted
or that everyone was just believing in many, many gods
and some tribe of the Jews came up with the idea
of monotheism and that stuck,
but we see relics of it in the ancient world.
I would posit you that the ancient world
was not very different than our current world.
People borrowed from the Jewish people like today,
also yesterday and that's why you find those variances.
That's all, that shouldn't persuade anyone.
I mean, we're living in a time when people believe in,
literally more than half the world believes
that the five books and Moses are the word of God.
Literally, I would think that's rather striking, don't you?
Half of the world and that's predicted
in Deuteronomy chapter four.
So if you can see that people are borrowing
from the Jews everywhere and there are of course layers
you have Pauline Christianity, the Catholic church,
another accretion, the split of the church,
the Reformation 19th century, Mormonism, another accretion,
but they're all borrowing from the Jews.
So this isn't difficult to work this one out,
to tease this all out, it's not complicated.
Thank you for answering that.
You know me and you have different conclusions on this one.
I appreciate the super chatter though.
Aubrey van Zil again is back, Paul correct.
God's plan of how he will save is prophesied
to be a mystery, Isaiah 53.1.
Who has believed our message
and to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed?
Who's speaking there?
I just ask you that.
And remember what I told you, my brothers and sisters,
if you have known plans on reading the passages
that introduce Isaiah 53,
there is no way you're going to leave the church.
You there's no chance, don't even try.
Read just one verse earlier.
So you're right, 53 verse one,
there's a question being asked by stunned,
by those who are stunned in Hebrew,
me, Hamilish, Mohsen, Uzra, Hashem, Amin, Negosa.
Who would have believed our report
and looked to whom of the arm the Lord has been revealed?
Well, who's asking that question?
All you need to do is take one step back.
Just one step back.
Cain Yahzeh, Goyim Rabbim,
a love Yikbetsu, Malachim Piem,
solely cast on my nations.
Kings will shut them mouth because of him.
So who's speaking here?
The kings of nations, they're shocked.
Why?
Because what was not told to them,
Rahu they'll see, and what they had never heard,
his body knew, they will finally understand.
Ignore the chapter break from Isaiah 52 to 53,
because the only reason that chapter break is there
is who is speaking.
In 52, 13 through 15, God is speaking,
and now the Gentile kings of nations are speaking
in their numb dishonishment.
But I say it to everyone,
there's nothing fancy going on here.
I don't have manuscripts in my sleeves
that you don't have access.
Paul made that claim.
Paul in Ephesians chapter three is claiming
that he has access to revelation that no one else does.
Please read the first five passages of Ephesians three.
He's making that claim.
And if you think, well,
I'm not sure Paul wrote Ephesians or not,
see first Corinthians chapter two.
That's the claim, I have access.
Wait, I have unique revelation that no one else has,
and I didn't get it from Jerusalem,
the first two chapters of Galatians.
Why, what about Isaiah 53?
If Isaiah 53 is that,
then what do you mean I have a unique revelation?
Paul didn't care about any of that stuff.
Paul is saying that he has unique revelation
and the so-called Pelth of the church don't.
He doesn't get it from man, he doesn't get it from Jerusalem.
That is why Paul says that I didn't go to Jerusalem
in Galatians one verse 17, I went to Arabia.
Why is Paul going to Arabia?
Why is he talking about going to where?
Was Paul going on a hodge to Mecca?
No, his point is I didn't have to rely on Jerusalem.
And that, my friends, is why,
that whenever you see a divergence
between the book of Acts and Paul's own letters,
you will consistently find that the book of Acts
is placing Paul in Jerusalem much more frequently
than Paul is, why?
Because Paul wants to show
that he's not reliant on Jerusalem, how do you know?
Read the first two chapters of Galatians.
All this stuff is all plain.
Good question, thank you.
Thank you so much.
Next one is truth exclusive.
Christ took curse of law for us, so he paid to the law.
Tovia will be judged by law without Messiah,
death, resurrection, no temple exists for you, pray.
That's a very good question.
I don't know.
I write that's the best answer
that Jesus paid the price for me.
But people don't realize what they're saying
when they're expressing what Paul says is paid the right.
If you're saying that Jesus paid the price for me,
now you have to listen very carefully
or you'll miss this point.
Then you are saying that Christianity's God
is not a God of love and mercy.
People don't get this point, this is so transparent.
Exactly, in the Christian model,
God the Father cannot forgive you
if you renounce your sin and confess
as we find in 1 Kings 8, 46, or 50.
Someone's gotta pay the price.
So if you're arrested and you go before the judge
and the judge is set to send you to prison
or you have to pay a fine, in Christianity,
if someone walks up to you and says,
I'm a rich guy, here's my credit card,
you can pay, I'll pay the fine for you, right?
And the judge says, we'll take that.
I don't care where the money comes from,
as long as it's not illicit.
That's the God of Christianity.
That judge is not merciful.
That judge, rather, is accepting someone else's payment
as a ransom for you.
Mark, chapter 10, verse 45.
Matthew, chapter 20, verse 28.
I mean, the Hammonson, in the Jewish faith,
if someone stands before God and says,
I confess what I did, please read 1 Kings 8, 46.
King Solomon is speaking here.
I confess my sins in heaven.
I regret what I did.
I am sorry what I did.
God will say, I forgive you.
Your sins will not be remembered against you.
Ezekiel, chapter 18, verse 21, verse 23.
So I know I'm going to offend a lot of many Christians here.
I really am sorry, I don't wish to.
But in fact, when you say someone has to pay the price,
what you're saying is that God can't just forgive you
if you regret what you do.
And this element that the father is inaccessible
is the stench of this is all over Christian literature.
You're a sinner.
Guys, if what I'm saying to you sounds weird, odd,
that means you've never been a Christian in your life.
This is standard Sunday service.
That you're a sinner, you're lost, God can't look at you.
He's perfect, he's righteous, you're a sinner.
Someone's got to pay the price.
If someone's paying a price for you, then where's the mercy?
So although Christianity uses the terms
like God is love all the time, God is merciful also.
This is why Christians are gonna really,
I hope they won't hate me too much saying it.
I know you won straight.
You're misappropriating beautiful words like love and mercy.
Cause if you say pay the price,
that means there's no love and mercy here.
It's just you're using someone else's credit card
if you just buy him.
That's why Judean is saying, no,
that's not merciful, someone pays the price.
What is merciful is the judge rather,
who you stand before, sees your heart.
And when you say, I confess what I did, I regret what I did,
the judge says to you, I forgive you, go home.
Ah, now we're talking Judaism.
So thank you for that point.
Thank you so much.
Aubrey Van Zyl says, Jews prophesied
to only recognize Messiah when he returns
to defend Jerusalem, Zechariah 1210.
They will look on me whom they have pierced
and they will mourn for him
as one mourns for an only son.
Great question.
What's the question?
Again, I strongly encourage you to read it in context.
Zechariah 12 is talking about the restoration
of the Jewish people to Jerusalem at the end of days
and nations will attack Jerusalem,
attack the Jewish people over the status of Jerusalem.
And we are told there,
and please, you quoted Zechariah 1210.
Great.
Read it in context.
That Zechariah 129, it'll be in those days.
That Zechariah 129.
It'll be in those days.
I will destroy all the nations
and I will destroy all the nations
that come against Jerusalem.
So the Jews are restored back to Jerusalem
and then the Hebi to Eli et Hashem d'Akharu,
they will look to me because of the one who was killed
or those who killed d'Akharu is the plural
and will repent, will return back to God.
May, was that October 7th?
I don't know, but it means a catastrophic blow
to the Jews that causes them to repent.
One of the caveat here,
the book of John sharply disagrees
with your exposition of the text
and I'd encourage you to look that up.
The fourth gospel claims,
this is gonna blow your mind away
and I hope you're paying attention.
I really hope that you the viewer looks this off yourself.
Like, don't trust me, look it off yourself.
As it turns out, the book of John, the fourth gospel,
quotes Zechariah chapter 12.
The very passage you described,
but as it turns out,
John thought misappropriating the text,
please look up right now.
Open up a browser, John chapter 19, verse 37.
Context, Roman soldiers pierce the side of Jesus,
postmortem inspection to see if he's really dead.
They don't know if they have to break his legs.
It's a unique story that's only found in the book of John
because John wants Jesus to be the Lamb of God.
And those of you who are watching
just know that it's true.
And therefore, and he says,
and John 1937, please look it up now.
Open up two browsers in one browser,
open up Zechariah 1210,
and the other browser, open up John 1937.
Use your computer, okay?
There's not a slide of hand.
John actually changes the pronoun.
In John 1937, it doesn't say to look to me,
but rather they will look upon him whom they have pierced.
And who pierced?
The Roman soldiers, not even the Jews.
And it's a postmortem inspection.
It's not a crucifixion.
Do you get that point?
In John 1937, Jesus dead already.
The piercing with blood and water come out of the side
of Jesus is a demonstration that he's already dead.
Do you understand how this sort of misappropriation attacks?
And as it turns out,
this doesn't seem to frighten Christian commentaries
where the Christian commentators routinely,
MacArthur's Bible says that the Jews
are gonna feel terrible the other days and feel horrible.
Wait, but John 19 says it's not even talking about Jews,
not talking about a crucifixion.
So that Roman soldiers, guys,
it's time to just go back to the text.
It's really very simple.
Thank you for your question.
Thank you so much.
Thank you, thank you.
Jonathan Stein is back again.
Thanks for the super chat.
Rabbi, I'm struggling against the pull of atheism
and my rational mind.
Modern science is very unsettling.
I want to remain a Jewish theist.
Help.
Just, could you add a sentence there for me?
I mean, like what?
Like, I mean, we know a lot more about the universe today
than we did 2000 and 3000 years ago.
We know things are much more complex
and more amazing than we ever did.
So why is that?
And uniform, which means in the ancient world,
monotheism made no sense.
I mean, there's a reason why Judaism
was very much alone in the world,
where we was the only monotheism.
Why?
Because in the ancient world,
there were just things that seemed incompatible.
Fire, water, hail, it just didn't mix together.
What do we know now that we didn't know then?
Now we're all made up of the same stuff.
You see that dog of yours?
You share about 98% of your DNA with him.
A clump of yeast on your table,
about 70% of your DNA do share with that clump of yeast.
What made up of startups
and the most plentiful element in the universe is hydrogen.
Like, hello.
So what we are encountering today
was not known in the ancient world.
The ancient world, the forces in the world
seemed highly variegated.
They didn't even know what an earthquake was
and they didn't understand what a tsunami was.
Now we know that it really is coming from one force.
I'll say something that I don't think will offend anyone.
I've never, I don't think I ever said this to anyone.
I think we're living in a time
where you really do have two choices.
Paganism is just not tenable any longer
because we know we're just proto-plasm.
We know just carbon.
We know what we're made of, right?
So I think that today there's only two choices,
either the radical monotheism,
that my faith espouses or atheism,
but there really is no in-between.
The world of Thor and Zeus
and all these other gods are just untenable today.
So I think the case should,
I think that makes the case very well
as opposed to the ancient world.
So thank you.
Yeah, and they were just asking
just to clarify to make sure they were saying the,
what did they say?
I'm sorry, I'm moving.
I'm asking for his argument against atheism.
So I felt like that was what you were trying to say, but.
Right, I think so what I think is the following
that we see the, not just the organizational world,
but I just wanted to say one other thing.
Judaism does not point to texts.
Rather we point to the predictive power of the Hebrew Bible.
And I would encourage you to assess
if you're going to be a theist or an atheist
based on prophecies in the Hebrew Bible,
very specifically keep your eye on the Jew.
The Hebrew Bible tells that the Jews
will send to an exile,
whereas the nations will look upon the Torah
and say, what a wise nation that has such a poor seed
do running for verse 12.
It says you'll be spread around the world, all nations,
same chapter for verse 27,
annual main fewer number, same passage, yet you'll return.
You know, there was a physicist in the early 20th century
that made some astonishing claims.
And it was the predictive power
of what Einstein had said would happen in observation
that was so shocking.
I don't remember Derek Colongo this was,
but it was just a few years ago
where scientists thought they had measured something
that was moving fast in the speed of light.
In Einstein's view, that would have been impossible,
that matter can move fast in the speed of light.
And scientists around the world were very skeptical about it.
Why?
Because Einstein had proven himself
that his predictive power is something
that was just inconceivable.
And later on, they found out the test was flawed.
That's really what the Jewish faith is saying.
They say, look at the text and look at history.
And that's why the Jews are the witnesses to the world.
Isaiah 43 verse 10,
atem ey dinoshem, abdishabacharti,
the Jew is the witness to the world.
And conversely, our unique relation with the Torah
is that we bear testimony to the Torah
and the Torah bears testimony to the Jew.
So I just say, keep your eye on the Jew.
Is whoever wrote that book, God, men, how is it doing?
What are those predictions like?
Thank you for your question.
Thank you for the super chat and your answers.
I'm gonna read three at once
because they're almost the same thing.
And this goes back to the idea of Judaism coming first,
as you pointed out, that many people copied
or borrowed from Judaism.
I know that you and me would disagree on this
in terms of how we view Judaism, its origins.
Not wrong, you should not be disagreeing with me.
Listen, you know, if we were married.
It's just wrong, not how I raised you at all.
I want your mom on the phone right now.
You know my mom loves you, so.
Your mom is a good judge of character.
Your mom knows what she's doing.
Listen to that woman, okay.
I'm gonna read three in a row
and thank you for all the super chats tonight.
The love, the support, the respect,
even with the disagreements
with anything that's being said.
Thank you.
Humanist reformation.
Zoroastrians brought monotheism to the world.
Canaanites were captured in Babylon,
learned monotheism and became Israel.
Cyrus was a huge Zoroastrian.
The next one is by Jonathan Stein.
Was Judaism or Zoroastrianism first?
Thanks.
And then Robert Winters.
Wasn't Zoroastrianism a rival monotheism
maybe before Judaism?
Did Zoroastrianism influence
or even help create Judaism through King Cyrus?
Thank you for all three of those.
I sometimes I'm bewildered by this point.
Zoroastrianism is a, oh, it's not, all right.
One point, that is that it's not clear
when exactly Zoroastrianism began.
It's a ancient Persian religion,
but it's highly dualistic.
So I don't know why people, please don't be offended.
I was about to say regurgitate that,
but I realize that it's fighting in the sound offensive.
It's a dualistic religion with independent agencies
of a deity of light and a deity of darkness.
That's exactly what Judaism is not.
Now, ultimately, there is one agent
that when no defeats the other.
In Judaism, there is no other independent agency
and Satan was created by God.
See Isaiah 45 verse seven, which means
the reason why there's darkness in the world,
the reason why there's an evil inclination
is so that there could be free will.
Remember the chat that we talked about last week
before you I replaced life and good, death and evil
Deuteronomy chapter 30 verse 15.
Remember the verse before that is the one that Paul corrupts.
So that is really not Zoroastrianism.
Zoroastrianism is a quintessential dualistic religion.
Now Cyrus, we don't know what Cyrus' religion was,
but he is assigned in Isaiah 48, excuse me,
Isaiah 44 verse 20 and 45 verse one,
that he is the one who will tell the Jews
to return back Jerusalem, rebuild the temple.
Cyrus did not believe in the God of Israel.
How do you know?
He probably was a Zoroastrian.
We have no way of knowing,
that means there's nothing in the text that would say that,
but it actually says in Isaiah 45
that he doesn't know my name.
My brothers and sisters,
the point, one of the massive points of Isaiah 45 is,
God is predicting that a Persian king is gonna tell the Jews
to go back to Jerusalem and rebuild the temple, right?
The point of the chapter is that this man,
who the book of Isaiah identifies as my annoy,
I'm anointing him for this mandate.
He doesn't know my name.
That means he's not a follower of me.
And don't question me.
Why would you use him?
Why would you use that person?
Why would you use that odd leader in history?
People just, why would you use Oscar Schindler?
Who was Oscar Schindler?
He was a German Roman Catholic,
who was a profiteer and a womanizer,
who somehow found his way
and saved more than 1,000 Jews during the Holocaust.
Oscar Schindler, like that's who God used?
Yeah, why?
I don't know.
But you have these unusual figures in history
that just step into history and make a difference.
So the whole point of Isaiah 45 is,
I will use people you don't expect.
They don't know my name and I'm using them anyway.
And my ways are straight.
And at the end of time,
you'll ultimately understand why my plan is just.
That's the whole point of it.
Thank you for your questions.
Thank you for the Zoroastrian questions.
And obviously admittedly, right?
We all have our bias.
We all have our perspective
and you are coming from Orthodox Judaism.
And I know that a lot of the critical scholars
will come at it from different angles
and they have different ideas.
And I don't think any of them are thinking
in the dualistic sense,
but you do rightly point out the difference there.
I think oftentimes they're highlighting other aspects
that they think are being influential on Jewish minds,
Jewish thought within Judaism,
like resurrection or other things.
But that's a whole nother rabbit trail discussion
that is off the topic of this
because you can also see elements of that
in Egyptian mythology or in Egyptian ideas
and they change over time.
But anyway, I'm moving to the next couple here.
We have a few more, if that's okay with you, Rabbi.
It's okay.
Okay.
This is a very big topic what Derek just spoke about.
Hope you're paying attention to him
because these are really two narratives
that are competing with each other.
Is monotheism first and then it becomes,
it is betrayed, but there's a rent that maintains it
or is paganism the original?
And then there is a later iteration
or better a mutation which produces Judaism.
These are two competing forces.
These are two worldviews that are clashing.
What happened here?
Monotheism first and then betrayal of that
or paganism and then a mutation of paganism.
It's exactly correct, Derek.
You lined that up perfectly.
Thank you.
The Gypsy Prince, did Paul get the Eucharist
through Revelation or could this be the words
of a Jewish rabbi?
No, this is the first Corinthians 11.
No, no, don't eat body and blood.
No.
So the Eucharist is-
You're smiling, Rabbi, you're smiling.
It's so crazy, guys, I love you guys,
but like eating body and drinking blood, you know?
So this Paul almost never quotes Jesus, almost never.
I say almost because this is an exception.
First Corinthians 11, where we have the Eucharist,
the Eucharist that we find in the Gospels as well
and the Passover Seder in the Synoptic Gospels
a day before in the book of John.
And regardless, that's ritual cannibalism.
The idea is that if you ate from the gods,
you would take on the powers of the gods,
infuse with those powers
and you'd be able to do what the gods do.
So when does that occur?
It depends on the book.
Does it occur on the first Easter Sunday
as John would have us believe?
Would Jesus breeze on the disciples?
Hasn't they can forgive sin?
Which is mind-blowing because Christians frequently say
that forgiving sin is a prerogative only for deity,
but here we see that that's not the view of the author.
John did it happen in Pentecost.
This is ritual cannibalism.
I'm not trying to mock Christian, but that's what it is.
It's you eat, you know, I lived in a country
and I served as the rabbi of a country
that had cannibals in it.
I don't, so in Indonesia on the island of Papua,
which the western part is Indonesia,
there are tribes that still practice cannibalism to this day.
And they're not engaging cannibalism for nutritious reason
because they prefer the taste of human flesh.
Cannibalism is practiced because by those who believe
that if you eat from the body of your victim,
you gain the properties of the body you ate
and the blood you drank.
And that's what comes into view in 1 Corinthians.
Could anything be more vile?
Could anything be more vulgar?
And in the Hebrew Bible, human sacrifice is attacked
constantly and why did the ancient world
want to deliberately sacrifice babies and virgins
in Central America and in the Middle East?
Because what babies represent,
innocent, sinless, virgin, sinless, innocent,
the Aztecs practice this is detestable.
And the Hebrew Bible opposed to this.
So why would, well, it possessed someone
to look at 1 Corinthians 11 and think,
ah, yes, this is a good idea.
It's not that this idea is not found in the Hebrew Bible.
It's that it is opposed by the prophets of Israel.
There's not, the human sacrifice in the view of the Torah
is the motherload of bad ideas.
Thank you for your question.
If I may add to that,
because the questioner was asking,
did Paul get this by revelation?
I think that's what Paul says.
He didn't get it from Judaism.
Paul is claiming that he has everything from revelation.
And Paul is claiming that, right.
Paul, of course, I don't even believe that Paul,
you know, scholars disagree about that.
I don't believe that Paul had a non-veritical experience
that he misidentified.
He was a Shelton.
He was a Joseph Smith character.
And he was simply taking ideas
that were all around the Levant and well beyond
and infusing them into the religion he was producing.
Paul, I mean, Joseph Smith is from the modern era.
Paul was a Joseph Smith character.
This is not a guy who was just meditating too much
and didn't have enough protein in his diet to think straight.
This is a person who very plotted this out very carefully,
synchronizing ideas that were very well-known
and very attractive with Judaism,
also well-known and attractive,
and producing the religion you know is Christianity.
He produces the orthodoxy.
Crazy, crazy thing.
People don't notice this.
I don't think people do.
But Paul's ideas are so strong that they even mutate
past the Synoptic Gospels,
like Jesus being the Lamb of God.
Jesus is our Passover.
That's in 1 Corinthians 5-7.
But you don't find in the Synoptic Gospels
that, bang, it shows up in the book of John.
Jesus being divine in the common Christy
in Philippians chapter two, verse six through 11.
You don't find that in the Synoptic Gospels.
Bang, there it is in the prologue.
Paul's the cancer that Paul infuses metastasized
and just will jump over everything
and find its way into the pro-orthodoxy
of the church that now assaults the Jewish faith.
Good question.
Thank you so much for the super chat there.
Victor Engelman in Adversis Eudeus,
Augustine of Hippo already mentions
that Jews interpret passages as referring to them,
not to Jesus.
So that debate is not new.
So I think Victor's just coming in,
in line with what you were saying earlier,
that Jews did not ever understand this,
the way that-
I'll go further with you.
I'll go crazy with you.
I'll go Nazi-cookie with you.
And I talk about this in my book,
Volume 1 of the Biblical.
Probably the smartest church father was Origen,
the third century church father.
He was a really bright fellow.
And he wrote a reply to a second century
opponent of Christianity, Calces.
And a very sophisticated pagan who detested Christianity.
So we don't, nothing of the second century
philosopher survives, nothing of his own.
But it does survive through Origen's reply to him.
Origen methodically lines out everything that he said
against Christianity and he responds to it.
And it survives.
And strikingly in that work,
Origen is writing this third century.
And he's saying that I met many Jewish people
and asked them about Isaiah 53.
And they responded, Isaiah 53 is speaking about Israel
as a single individual.
He says that, he admits that.
You're not gonna get that from Jews for Jews,
but you will get it from a third century church father
whose influence on the church is very striking.
So yes, very well done.
Exactly, Augustine, all that.
Right.
Thank you.
Hang for she says, why would Yahweh give a prohibition
against consuming shellfish
and then put microscopic shrimp in drinking water?
Leviticus 1112.
Okay, so there's a prohibition against eating anything
that has, that doesn't any fish that has fins and scales,
but there's no prohibition against eating something
that you can't see that's invisible.
In fact, that's where Jewish Lord separates it.
If you can't see it, it doesn't exist.
So that's, you are very much understanding the Talmud
which I don't bring in.
And that is, if you can't see it, it isn't there.
It has to be visible.
Look at the text Leviticus 11, right?
Thank you.
Last one, and thank you everybody for the support.
We're gonna let Rabbi go after this one.
Humanist, Reformation, thank you so much.
Zoroastrianism is not dualistic.
Encyclopedias call it monotheistic and so do scholars.
There's one creator God, Ahura Mazda,
with a lesser evil spirit.
Judaism is dualistic under the rabbis definition
with a Hasatan.
I think that's what the H,
the additional H next to with is, so.
The oldest book in the Hebrew Bible
is the book of Job, right?
Job is righteous.
He wasn't even keeping laws.
He was a Bennoa, right?
Open the book of Job.
It is a good thing that Satan is mentioned rarely
in the Hebrew Bible.
It's a good thing because there are just so few passages
about it that we can easily figure out
if Satan is an independent agent
or is a complete servant of God, okay?
Satan stands before God in the whole assembly of angels
and speaks about this fellow Job,
who was righteous and Satan says to God
that perhaps this person is righteous
because after all, he was blessed with a large family
and enormous wealth and if perhaps these blessings
were taken away from him, perhaps he would curse God.
That's how the book opens.
It's one of the rare introductions to Satan.
There are other places, but it's extremely rare.
And God tells Satan, okay, this is what you could do to Job
and this is what is forbidden for you to do to Job.
You can't take his life.
And is Job pressed to the edge?
Yeah, does he curse the womb in which he was conceived?
Yeah, does he receive the most foolish advice
from his wife and his companions constantly?
But ultimately, Job is able to resist Satan's
ablandishments and the key point is that Satan
is not evil as it is in Zoroastrianism.
It's not an opponent of God as it is in Zoroastrianism.
It's not an opponent of God as it is in the book
of Revelation and Second Thessalonians.
It's really all over the Christian world.
That's highly dualistic.
So definition of dualism is the following,
that the devil or Satan really is an independent agent.
It really is a chief enemy and blasphemy of God.
That's how Satan is viewed in Christianity.
That can't be.
God created evil, Isaiah 45 verse seven.
Now, in the Zoroastrian view,
does ultimately the God of light win?
Yes, that doesn't absolve it of its polytheism
or its dualism.
The reason why we are living at a time
when religions that are not monotheistic
are reassigning themselves as a monotheistic,
Hindus do this as well.
If there's a Hindu here, I really don't want to offend you,
but you're going to routinely hear Hindus saying
that we're the oldest monotheism in the world.
And I heard this a lot in Indonesia.
I heard this a lot in Bali.
I lectured at a college in Bali,
believe it or not, there are colleges there,
where one Hindu went in at it with me and said,
no, we're Hindus, we're the oldest monotheism in the world.
Why is this happening?
Why are these religions suddenly identifying themselves
as monotheistic?
Because what we talked about earlier, we know the science.
You can either be an atheist or a deist
or an atheist, the pagan world of many gods
is just untenable, why?
Because we know the science, right?
So what we're having now is religions
that were always known to be dualistic,
therefore pagan are reinterpreting themselves
or redefining themselves as monotheistic.
Why?
Because we have a microscope, we know the deal,
we know that the dualism is untenable.
And although things look like they're inconsistent
or incompatible with each other,
we know it's everything is synchronizing with each other.
My gosh, we are made up of stardust.
That's what we're made of.
So bingo, that's why we're finding
that religions like Zoroastrianism, like Hinduism,
are now claiming monotheism.
I understand that.
And if you're a Hindu or whatever,
I don't mean to offend you, but that's what's happening
because we know the science.
So thank you for that question.
And thank you, Eric.
Humanist reformation to give them, since they gave us a 20 here,
they said, all lesser spirits in Zoroastrianism
serve a Hora Mazda, just like Satan serves God
and Judaism, and then they said Zoroastrianism
is not dualistic anymore than Judaism.
So maybe there's something,
I need to look into this myself as well, dig deeper into it.
But I really do appreciate them super chatting
and asking the question and your time, Rabbi.
Are there any final words from you to our audience?
I pinned your YouTube channel at the top
so people could subscribe.
If they're interested in this,
what is your YouTube channel about?
What do you use it for?
It's, what is it about?
It's about biblical texts
and why Judaism doesn't accept the Christian Messiah.
After all, why do I do this?
Why in Jerusalem, it's 2.43 in the morning.
Why am I doing this?
Because I want Jews in the church
to return back to the Jewish faith
and help people understand about our people, our nation.
We have a unique history and keep your eye
on the people of Israel.
And also I wouldn't just encourage you viewers
to keep us in your prayers.
This is a very unique time we're living in.
And thank you, Derek, for having me on Shalom.
Thank you so much, everybody.
Hit the like button.
I appreciate everybody in the chat who was respectful,
regardless if you agree, disagree, like, dislike,
have a disagreement on various ideas.
That's what it's all here for.
Not interested in always having an echo chamber,
even though I don't usually do that.
It's cool to have interfaith dialogue
with someone like you, Tovia.
You're definitely controversial among Christians.
I get a lot of comments.
Come on, stop it, they know.
They love me.
You're one of their favorite, actually.
I'm serious.
There are people who make a living with me
in the Christian world.
They say, give me money
because we have to fight right by singer.
Anyways, a lot of love to you.
I'm not kidding.
I believe you.
I believe you.
Hey, we do need to figure out some dates
about a potential debate that might happen in person.
I am moving.
I'm moving in July.
I'll be in Florida.
You're moving?
You're going to Florida also?
Me and the family are relocating.
Yep.
Okay, brilliant.
All right.
Oh, I'll keep that in mind.
Everything will happen before then.
Cool, though.
Yeah.
All right, thank you so much, everybody.
Never forget, we are MythVision.
