Be sure to check out MythVisionPodcast.com.
Help MythVision grow guys, become a Patreon member.
You guys will get early access to all of my videos when I'm done editing them.
Also it's a small community where you guys can message me your questions and talk to
me in private.
You guys can donate also through PayPal, join our social media links down in the description.
We have Twitter and Facebook groups, help the community of MythVision grow.
Don't forget to subscribe to this channel, hit that bell button so you're notified every
time I do a live video and you don't miss any of my content.
Like this video and comment your thoughts below because I want to know what you think about
all of these things.
I always ask myself what happens after I die and then something happened.
Since then, I just couldn't stop.
The crucifixion is the part of the story in which the four Gospels are more closely
aligned.
All of them say that the temple curtain was torn.
Is it a theology point, the blood of Christ is now covering our sins?
The only thing that could tear the huge curtain would possibly be a seismic event.
You see mostly horizontal thin layers which we call lamina.
Every once in a while you see that some of them are not horizontal and these deformations
were caused by earthquakes.
The sun will be darkened, the moon will turn to blood before the great and terrible day
of the Lord.
He knows astronomy to calculate past eclipses and he found one eclipse and only one eclipse.
One eclipse and only one eclipse.
Question is what might that darkness have been due to?
If it's dark from twelve to three, it is possible to have a dust event that would last long
enough.
I want to know what happened on that day.
I want to know the specific timing.
I want to know what was in the air because it's possible.
We have to be very careful here and the fielder between science and religion, some people
do not hesitate to mix the two.
For the first time I began to think that I was on the road to being the only person
in the world who understood this earthquake, the crucifixion quake.
We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision Podcast, your host, Derek Lambert.
Today I have a special treat for you guys.
I was recently going through Amazon and a buddy of mine actually reached out to me and
he says, hey, I really like what you guys do here at MythVision Podcast.
I'm interested in all the guests that you bring on and this interesting idea of looking
at the mythology of the New Testament, the Old Testament, really just digging into the
mysteries that you've discovered in the Bible.
He said, you should check out this documentary that I have.
It's called The Crucifixion Quake.
Catch this.
This gentleman that I'm about to introduce to you is a geologist, an actual scientist,
and he has spent quite a long time researching this material, at 20 years at least, and he
has come across some material that you guys might find fascinating.
Some of you skeptics might feel a little uneasy, but at the same time some of you believers
might nail the coffin shut and say the case is closed.
I want you guys to hold your reservation here and just wait till this episode's done.
Go check out the documentary and guys, make sure you watch it and leave an Amazon review,
whether it's a good one or a bad one.
Keep an honest review.
The link's down in the description.
I really ask that you guys participate in this and help my buddy out.
With that being said, the title of this, The Crucifixion Quake.
Jefferson, how are you doing?
This is Jefferson Williams.
How are you doing, sir?
Good.
How are you?
We have Marco.
Is it Bazzi?
Bazzi.
Bazzi.
Italian.
Yes.
Bazzi.
Nice.
Like pizza.
Well, thank you guys for joining me.
I'm really honored to have you guys join me on this.
I watched the documentary and it was quite an interesting documentary.
Me and my wife both watched it.
She's more of a spiritual-minded woman.
I'm more of a skeptic, but I'm a very friendly skeptic.
I'm not like a hater of people who have different views.
I mean, what kind of world would that be, right?
So I watched that trailer.
The documentary I thought this movie was going to be a complete fundamentalist Christian
movie, if I'm going to be honest, right?
The preview was just so emotional and I was like, hold on, is this like another left behind
or some other type of clip?
And it was very dramatic, but rightly so because we're discussing something that is sacred
to billions of people, billions of lives across the world.
Look at this book, so sacred, many would die for this belief.
Many have died for this belief, Christianity.
So with that being said, I'd like to ask, if you don't mind, the first thing is the mystery
geologist.
He's kind of a mythological character playing this role and he was on a journey in the crucifixion
quake.
What set him on this journey to want to date this quake in Jerusalem, according to the
documentary?
Yeah, I'm going to start with this even if he's the geologist because we're talking
about the movie.
And the main thing I was interested in when he approached me like about the project that
he had, actually we had a few conversations and when he just told me about his research,
it was very interesting, but I didn't feel like the drive to make a movie on it because
it was something that was already like in the air, has been told many times and I come
also from a religious background and then I went to the other side so I know both sides.
So we had a few conversations, but the moment when I really thought like, yeah, this is
a good story to tell, it's the journey that you just mentioned.
Like I thought that the journey of Jeff, it was a quite of a story because it was like
a parallel story with the actual story of the crucifixion and the journey.
And so for me, it was very clear from the beginning that I wanted to tell a story not
for scientists, not for believers, not for nonbelievers.
I wanted to tell a story for everybody that everybody can watch it and can make their
own conclusion.
And so that's the reason why it was very important to follow the personal journey of the person
that is actually going through that.
Jefferson, do you have anything you'd like to add to that?
So when he told me that he wanted to do a personal journey of me, I didn't feel so good
about it.
But the thing was, the research isn't completed.
So it's in the real science, you have Act 1, Act 2, Act 3, real science has stuck in
Act 2 forever.
And when they make documentaries about science, a lot of times they end up at some point making
the story about the data and then they have to dramatize the data.
And I had told him that if we did this, we had to make sure that we do not dramatize
the data.
Present it as it is, contradictory, coherent, whatever, anytime you interview a scholar,
has to be their words, don't twist them, don't use the data for the drama.
So when he made the case to me that, okay, you need the drama in the geologist's story,
I didn't like it, but I understood it, that if you dramatized the story of the person
going after the information, that would be the drama that the audience would follow and
then you would never have the temptation, especially about halfway through the movie,
to start giving a coherent narrative of where this data is heading.
Because the truth is, I don't know where the data is heading.
We're in the process of discovering it.
So I didn't like it, but it's the way it has to be done.
I have a lot of respect for that.
And I think that method is the proper method to take.
Don't go into it with all these bias.
Try not to have your conclusions met before you open the door.
And that's what I enjoyed about the movie, because if I'm going to be honest, letting
our audience know, this dating of the earthquake, we're going to get into a little bit of this
material as the show goes on.
This places an earthquake around 33 AD, approximately the time that the commonly understood dating
of Jesus as crucifixion on the ground in Jerusalem back in the first century.
So if the temple veil was torn and there were earthquakes happen, does that give validity
to the historical narrative of the New Testament?
And for me, it's kind of hesitation because I see so much mythology and story and narrative.
It's very difficult for me to go, come on, guys, you know, it's easy to just throw that
off, but you didn't go into this saying, I got to prove or disprove.
And whatever that evidence is, we need to follow and say, how does this fit?
I mean, scratch the Bible for a second, put it on the side.
Don't worry about the fiction or the narrative or if you believe it's literal, put it aside.
What's the science?
What's the data say?
And then from there, draw some conclusions and try and figure out how that works in this
narrative.
And that's kind of how I felt.
There was a tug of war, especially when you had your scholars, but we'll get into those.
So the second thing I'd like to ask, and this is I'll start with you, Marco, if you don't
mind, you made a comment that you learned from both mythicist and fundamentalist people
who take things more all mythical and others who say, no, it's all literal.
There's kind of like these two extremes, but both of them taught you something.
What is to be said about this in terms of the historical events that the geologist has
discovered?
Well, one other important thing for me before we started to shoot this movie, when I talked
to Jeff, I said like, okay, so we said like, I want to follow the story, the journey of
the geologist, but we need to agree on the fact that I do not want to say, I don't want
to show your point of view period.
So I don't want to make a movie where we just tell what you think and that the data is presented
by you.
So and we had several conversations about that.
So for me, it was very important that whenever we go into the data, we need experts in every
single field.
So when we talk about the dust storm, we want to have the expert on the dust storm.
When we talk about, so that was very important.
And so because as Jeff mentioned, so and it was his belief and his need like to make a
movie that it's accurate, accurate.
So he was feeding me with all the information and then bringing me to the scholars planning
all those things.
He did a great production job.
And so that was perfect.
And then once you get in that step, you start to see that there are different beliefs.
Like there's someone that is more mythical, someone that is more scientific.
So it's like, okay, so how do we approach this?
Because so we can't push in one direction or the other.
So we really need to find the right balance between the speakers, between the scholars,
between everybody that is talking.
So because, you know, sometimes that's, that's what a lot of people like think that, you
know, we, and this is actually was one of the question that we were asking, like, do
you think that your belief is affecting your view or the way you're presenting the data?
That was like a standard question, you know?
So, but I was very happy to see that they were all very professional and staying with
the data.
So I don't think in the end that that difference between like someone that believes more in
the mythical thing or like a really affected the, the, in a certain way, like the film,
you know?
So I think that was very important to keep like.
So has mentioned, as you mentioned, like the dramatic story of the geologist more like,
but it's always a parallel with something scientific and important data and accurate.
I can also answer that question if you want.
So I have read a fair amount of New Testament scholarship to try to understand the textual
part of this earthquake.
And so I've read kind of standard New Testament scholar to understand the basics.
But yes, I do have, I like to read fundamentalists and mythosists for two different reasons.
First off, the fundamentalists, they're believers and the people who wrote these were believers.
And because they can kind of step into the author's point of view, sometimes they see
things that other people don't see.
So for instance, a fundamentalist pointed out to me in Acts 4.
In Acts 4, they have a bad day at the temple.
They're going there.
They're thinking, okay, we're going to preach this.
And I know Acts, we have no idea how valid Acts is.
We have no idea how good the chronology is.
But this fundamentalist perspective is presenting to me, they're going, they're, they're thinking,
maybe we're going to convert the priesthood to, to Jesus as the Messiah.
And they go there and John and Peter get put in jail overnight, and then they get threatened.
And then the, the temple priesthood says, you can't talk about this.
And they say, well, we can't help ourselves from talking about it.
And then it gets into this whole jurisprudence issue about how it is that the priests are
going to deal with this renegade sect.
And so they come back and they come back to their assembled place.
And obviously they've had a bad day at the temple.
Their hopes are deflated.
And they sit there and they pray, and then the building shakes.
And all of a sudden it says, the Holy Spirit comes in them and they speak boldly.
Well, that's pretty strange that, that an aftershock from an earthquake is causing this
in them.
And so the fundamentalist is telling me, yeah, that remember the earthquake from eight weeks
ago.
Remember the earthquake when this happened.
So that's an insight that you can get from a fundamentalist.
When I say a mythicist, 324 BC, Alexander the Great conquers this part of the world.
From then on, the Jews are introduced to Greek culture and it goes on and on.
By the time you get to the Hasmonean, some of the kings even have Greek names.
The Herodian dynasty clearly has a foot in the Greek world and a foot in the Jewish world.
You have a huge Jewish diaspora.
So obviously people in this part of the world are aware of the myths of other culture, aware
of the comparative mythology.
It's not just Greek, it's Persian, it's Egyptian.
It's everything that brings together this vast Roman empire.
And so the mythicists have insight into parallels between the stories they're telling and other
myths that might have resonance in that Gentile culture where this is being sold.
So yes, I do follow both of them.
But I will tell you, fundamentally, that's great, but that's not what I'm doing.
I'm looking at earthquakes, not just this one.
I look at all the earthquakes in this section.
So a good example of how I look at these earthquakes and why, for instance, some people may say,
why do you see magical thinking?
Why don't you just throw it out?
I don't have that luxury.
In a place called the Holy Land, magical thinking is everywhere in this ancient document.
So I can give an example, 363 AD earthquake.
This is a very well understood earthquake.
This is probably the best one we have ancient.
What happened is May 18th, 9 p.m., 363, probably almost all of this are of a fault broke.
And then at 3 in the morning on May 19th, it triggered another earthquake on the Jordan
Valley Fault.
And we have about 15 sites with archaeological evidence and about four or five sites with
geologic evidence, but we have really solid data.
Some's indeterminate.
We have really solid data here at Aliyah, at Petra, very extensive.
We have three gravestones here in Safi.
We have a three, four, five centimeter thick earthquake deposit here in Nahazalim.
We have a one centimeter thick earthquake deposit up here in Anfeshka.
And then we have another solid evidence, archaeos seismic evidence in Hippos, Susita.
So we've got solid evidence of the earthquake.
What about the text?
So to understand the text, you have to think about the context.
In 363 A.D., for the past 40 or 50 years, we've had Roman emperors successively patronizing
Christianity more and more so that by the end of this century, by around 400, Christianity
will become the official religion of the Roman Empire.
In 363, up to this point, we have Roman emperors.
This is now headquartered in Constantinople.
They're providing government funds to build churches.
And maybe they're turning a blind eye when Christians are going and sacking pagan temples.
But in 363, we have a different emperor, Julian the Apostate.
He is a pagan, and he's doing just the opposite.
He's now patronizing the pagan temples.
And maybe he's turning a blind eye to the pagans going and getting a little revenge
and sacking those Christian churches.
And then he has the bright idea, you know what?
Let's go rebuild the Jewish temple in Jerusalem, the one that was destroyed in 70 A.D.
From the Talmud, it's really unclear that the Jews ever really participated in this.
But what we have, we have about 15 accounts, 14 Christian theologians, one pagan.
They're working on the foundation, and right when they begin to work on the foundation,
boom, the earthquake hits and destroys their efforts.
We have a count of all sorts of cities.
We have also some magical thinking.
We have stories of crosses appearing on their clothes, crosses in the skies, invisible forces
keeping the workers from coming out of their house and going out to repair the foundation
damage, fire belching from the temple.
So this is all stuff that suggests to me oral transmission.
It's magical thinking.
But the fact is, I have the evidence that suggests the earthquake and when I look at
the cities that are listed, the inhabited cities, it fits.
Now some of these on the coast might not have been damaged so much.
Maybe that was a little bit about insurance, right?
They're trying to overstate the damage so that they can get more funds.
But I can see from that that I have a valid description textually of the earthquake, especially
since I have so many sources to put together.
So in any given earthquake in that time, I cannot ever discount magical thinking because
it happened to be the thought process of most of the people who do the reporting up until
about 1600.
Got out of the earthquake business around 1600.
That was really well said, actually, Jefferson.
I really appreciate you commenting on that and giving us some detail on that.
That's really interesting.
Makes me think, how are we going to fix this?
How are we going to have myth and history work together?
That's my mindset.
That's just my own personal, if you will, if I'm going to put a little bit of my bias
out there.
How does this work together?
And trying to marry the two.
You had great scholars join you on the documentary.
They had various backgrounds and disagreed greatly on some of the conclusions.
Could you name some of these scholars you had on the documentary and maybe different
points of view they had and go into a little bit of that?
All right.
Well, a lot of them I knew.
So in terms of textual scholars, we tried to have a balance.
So conservative, liberal in between.
So we had, but also kind of mavericks, people who I'd seen their work and I respected their
work.
So Richard Carrier has a very scientific perspective and a scientific way of doing his work.
He'd written a very good story on Fleagon and Phallus about this darkness at the crucifixion.
And so he was our liberal one and he's a mythicist.
So he's, in that world, he's an extreme liberal scholar.
Our conservative scholar was James Edwards.
He didn't, the part that he was in there for got cut because there's something very interesting
about this ancient gospel of the Hebrews that impacts on this earthquake story.
But he's a minister in the Presbyterian church.
He's a conservative scholar.
He's a scholar.
So he believes in mark and priority and he believes in gospels being anonymous and late
and everything else.
But he has faith and he talks about that.
And then in between is James Tabor, who's hard to classify whether he is a conservative
or a liberal, but his advantage was he's an expert on apocalypticism.
In fact, he was consulted in the siege at Waco to talk to David Koresh because he has
studied extensively apocalypticism in the early Christian community.
And then we added a Catholic priest who really knew his stuff, Father Roberto Peroni, to give
a church perspective.
And then Robert Eisenman to balance him out, who has a view, I guess, that acts is reversed.
And the main point that he made was that we're dealing with literature, that these are literary
constructions and they're carefully constructed.
And then when it comes to the scientists, well, I'm familiar with all of these geologists.
I've been working with them for 20 years or so.
So all these geologists were people that I'd known who are all the people who did the work.
And then Colin Humphries is someone who I've been collaborating with for 10 years.
So he's done all this historical astronomy work on the Old Testament, on the New Testament,
in addition to his semiconductor research.
And he was there to explain.
He was the guy who wrote the article in 1983 in Nature, which established how to establish
a date for the crucifixion based on historical clues and using historical astronomy to figure
out when a Friday showed up on a 14 or 15 Nissan in Pilots' reign.
Then we had a dust geologist and then Suzanne LaRoy, the palinologist, is someone who I'm
working with right now.
We're trying to figure out the season in which this and a couple of other earthquakes struck
because the best clue we have is not the year, we don't know which year he died.
But we do know the time of year, right?
It's Easter.
It's 14, 15 Nissan, it's March, April.
So we're trying to look at the pollen right on top of the earthquake layer and try to
figure out, was this a springtime earthquake, a fall earthquake, a winter earthquake?
I want to say that to me was a great combination of scholars, scientists and people.
And to me was fascinating because I have to say that the approach that I had with this
film as a director and storyteller is it was like I was a blank page.
I didn't know any of these people.
I just knew from, we were talking with Jeff and said, okay, so there are these scholars,
these scholars, there are scientists and everything.
But to me was amazing because I was like the audience.
I was approaching this as the audience.
So it was very interesting to see all the perspective and to see how they were dealing
with in their field, how they were talking, the different point of views.
And it was a learning process for me.
So I think it was a great combination for me to work with Jefferson because he was the
technical side and I was the filmmaker.
So he was guiding me into these scientific things.
And I was discovering through those scholars and those scientists.
And so it was very interesting for me, again, as an audience, I'm starting to have all those
information and then the question is how do I deal with this?
What am I doing with this?
So where are they pushing me in what directions?
What am I learning?
And so that was, I think, good for that.
And he was also happy that I was not coming from this because it was the right combination
for us to make this movie.
Yeah, I wanted a fresh perspective.
I wanted somebody who didn't know about it but had an artistic vision.
And I had seen from his work that Marco has a clear artistic vision.
He knows how to tell a story visually.
He knows how to tell a story.
So basically the pact we made was Marco has creative control to tell whatever story he
wants, but it has to be accurate.
So Marco was free to turn me into a total weirdo in this movie.
Well, it's not that far from the reality, right?
No, I'm a weirdo for sure, but I'm not that much of a weirdo.
But I followed your direction.
If that's what made it interesting, then we'll do that.
I'll be the weirdo.
I thought it was great.
You needed to heighten that experience visually.
So it was necessary.
I thought it was necessary because you're trying to become every person who's watching.
He is the audience and he's trying to subjectively project you into the viewer and the viewer
can struggle with you.
Oh my gosh, did he die?
Oh my gosh, what if it was on a Friday?
What if it was on the 14th to 15th?
What if it wasn't 33 AD?
What if there really was an earthquake that happened and the Gospels did take into account
a historical situation?
And I loved seeing the power struggle between the scholars.
And the myth is like Dr. Carrier, he's like, hold on, you can see he's reluctant to even
accept the potential of this being accurate.
And then he at least concedes and says, well, if this is true, if there was a factual earthquake,
there's an explanation and the explanation isn't what Christians would want you to think.
Of course, in his view, he would say, look, this might have been what drove the development
of such a movement to begin with.
And but you did so good because you're not saying what you think, you just let the scholars
take all the heat and you just sweat bullets and figuring out the information, letting
the information come in while you were just sitting there thinking at the end, laying
on the rocks, looking at the sediment.
It just made me think like he's still thinking and trying to wrap his head around this.
And at the end of the day, what I loved about the documentary was question, ask question,
be open to look and seek and search and, you know, ask questions.
That was the biggest thing I took away.
And first I thought this was going to be a fundamentalist movie that was trying to prove
Jesus is the truth and this and this and that.
And it wasn't against it either.
It was a perfect neutral video to let you kind of see.
Just one thing because I think you really got the point and I want to underline that
because you made that question that we didn't quite answer about like, how do we know the
difference between myth and real facts.
And so you got exactly like what was the point of the movie, which is like the biggest challenge
of this movie is that it was built around a question, not an answer.
So we do not know the answer.
And as you said, like it was very difficult to kind of like, because I might have an opinion.
We might have an opinion, but just to be neutral and let them talk.
But you know, because the biggest challenge was to build a movie around the question.
So like the choices that we made, like was how do we, how do we talk?
What's the kind of kind of language that we're going to use to tell this story?
You're talking about visuals and everything.
And those were like very important, the visual style, because in my mind, it was very clear
to me.
I mean, after a long time, like trying to approach like, how do I tell the story?
So it was clear to me that I had to use the same language of the Bible because the Bible
is what we're talking about.
That's the matter.
I don't understand if what's in there, it's matching with those data or not.
So it's myth or real fact, you know?
And so throughout the movie, we use that visual style and that overdrama of the geology story
just because that's the language of the Bible.
The Bible is overdramatic, you know?
So at the end of the movie, you have the same question that you have in the Bible.
So how do I know the difference between the real facts and not the real facts?
So in fact, if you see the weird ending, there is a double ending in that film, you know,
by the end of the movie, because it's actually, for me, was like, okay, we're using the same
language of the Bible, but the difference is then the end, we're going to leave a note
and we're going to say like, that's what we did.
We used this, now it's up to you to answer that question.
We're not going to answer that question for you.
So we put all the information and now you make your own choice.
And that was the, so that was the answer of also your question before.
There's no answer.
I totally respect that.
That's how I felt.
You didn't force any position.
So this will be to Jefferson, if you don't mind on this and Marco, I want your comment
after this.
I think you guys have probably talked about this a lot.
No one would listen to your conclusions, Jefferson.
Nobody would listen to them.
Based off your data pertaining to the dates and the effects, 33 AD, or, you know, trying
to consider this evidence here at this time and having any relation here.
It's like they didn't want to hear what you had to say and you were looking for the connections
to the gospels and the earthquake.
You were silenced, but your documentary is your voice.
And I think that's powerful because when they all want to shut you down and not listen to
the evidence or what you're trying to put here, this documentary allows you to speak
freely and say what you really are thinking or at least the questions you have in your
mind.
So can you comment on being silenced or if you will kind of, you know, not paying attention
to your work?
Well, all right, to be honest, I don't have a confidence problem.
So yeah, I was silenced for a little while, but I'm still talking to everybody and I never
got all that down about it.
It was mostly just frustration that I wasn't able to cooperate with these people anymore.
What really happened is I need some resources to figure this story out and I tried the academic
route.
I think that is the best route for me to try.
I got Cambridge University behind me.
We applied for a million dollar grant.
I have Colin Humphries, the guy who figured out the date of the crucifixion with historical
astronomy.
I have Suzanne Leroy, one of five palinologists in the world who understands dead sea palinology.
I have Ken Pye, the guy who literally wrote the book on dust geology.
I have Amatsangnan, who's been involved with paleo seismology of the dead sea since the
very beginning.
I have this guy named Adi Torfstein, who wrote this brilliant dissertation on the geochemistry
of the dead sea showing just through measurements that there was some halophilic bacteria operating
on the bottom of the dead sea.
We got to the last stage of this research proposal and we did not lose on merit.
We lost, there's really not a lot of things out there that can fund something like this,
trying to figure out if this earthquake matches with this story or not.
It was the Templeton Foundation, but they won't study historic events.
And so it was rejected because it didn't meet the needs of the foundation.
So I always had a plan B because I know this is very difficult to do funding wise through
academia.
So I developed, I got in my lab and figured out a way to make jewelry with the sediments
so the actual pieces so I could crowd fund and give that to people if they gave money.
And I said, I got to make a documentary and get this publicized.
And I know that if it gets publicized to a point, I'll somehow be able to raise the
money to get the funds to try to figure out the answer.
So this documentary is sort of my last gasp to do the big thing.
I'm going to have something published next year that's figuring out what time of year
this earthquake is.
But the dust part is somewhat speculative, but it's also expensive.
There's a lot of lab tests that have to be done for the next step.
And so that requires some public support.
So this documentary was okay, it's not going to work through academia.
I'm not going to get funding.
I can work with academia, but no way I'm going to get funding for this.
Come on, there's no chance.
Unless maybe if I went to a religious institution, but then I would be under pressure to give
an answer that they want.
And I'm not willing to do that either.
I'm a scientist.
My God is truth.
I'm trying to figure out the answer.
So I don't want to take funding from any source that's going to tell me or pressure me to
give an answer.
I have to be able to follow the data wherever it leads.
Marco.
Well, I think that the part that he was silenced for a long time, that was one of the most
interesting things for me as a filmmaker.
Of course, anything I can say here is just about the filming because that was my part.
And for me, that was really important to describe the character, but also to relate
with people because we all been through that in different scales, but when you're trying
to pursue something and it feels like everything goes wrong and things are not working out,
but then you don't give up.
You have two choices.
You give up or not, you keep fighting.
And I thought that that was very interesting the way Jeff really had this purpose in his
life and I had a lot of respect about that.
So that was a very important part of the story for me.
But as you might imagine, he's a scientist and for many scientists, talking about emotions
is not a real thing.
It was very hard.
There was resistance.
We had to work on it.
But also because he was scared about sharing that, oh, then the data are going to be confused
because I'm showing this part and then it's going to be a story.
But you know.
No, I'm worried about the repercussions.
I'm worried about me sounding like a whiner, like, oh, poor me.
And then all the other academics are going to be like, oh my god, would you stop complaining?
That's life.
Get over it.
That was the way I felt.
But I was like, all right, Marco, if this is what I got to do, fine, let's go do it.
Yeah.
And so to me, that was very important emotionally.
But then also from the data.
So it wasn't enough for me to know from him.
I tried to do this thing for 20 years and they didn't let me do it.
They didn't understand me.
That wasn't enough.
So I needed to understand why and so go into the data.
So and again, as an audience, because I didn't know any, but I had to go through every detail.
So like, and in some point I said, like, I need to really know everything.
You have to tell me everything.
So it's like this thing that he mentioned about like the historic events.
So I had no idea and we don't know how that is.
And that's why, okay, I want to have that in the film.
So that everybody can see how that works, you know, how you date the earthquake.
So what are those layers?
How you take the samples?
What do you do with those samples?
And then where was that problem that you're talking about?
Okay, the radiocarbon, this, this and then, and then the historical catalogs.
What are those?
What are we talking about?
So like going that deep to really understand what was the reason why and what they didn't
listen or he wasn't, he wasn't understood.
And what was exactly the moment and the reason and the, and the process.
So it's like, and that was very interesting to discover that.
And that also it's connected with the myth that we're talking about.
Because again, I come from a very religious education, you know, then I left.
But going through this documentary, I realized how many things they told me about the Bible
that are not the real thing.
They just said one version.
So that's what you, that's what you know, you know.
So that was very interesting to kind of like see what are those discrepancy between and
what are the historical things and whatnot.
You should have seen him the day I told him about the Virgin Mary.
Oh my God.
He went white as a sheet when I told her that Mary had other children.
That's the next documentary.
I really want to tell the story.
Seriously guys, that would be interesting.
Yeah.
The tension.
I think it's necessary when you start getting close to religious things like this.
The scientists aren't really, unless they're religious themselves or, you know, even sometimes
they're like, let me stay away from that.
I'm not interested in trying to tie those.
Let me just stick strictly with the data because you start getting close to what oftentimes
scientists think are mythology.
I'm not saying they all think that the New Testament is, but, you know, there's like
an area they don't want to necessarily connect the dots there.
Oh, okay.
Well, what's the data say?
I don't care about what the Bible says.
I want to focus on this, but the sun was darkened for three hours.
And I've heard it said, this is a solar lunar eclipse of some, this is supposed to be why
the sun gets dark for three hours.
But in the documentary, you bring up that it's likely a dust cloud and you have some
scholars, there's scientists that are saying, look, this is well known.
The dust cloud can get so thick that it can literally darken the sky where it's almost
like not, I'm giving a bad example here, but it's almost like when a volcano goes, you
know, it darkens the sky.
Well, when you've got dust particles heavily in the air, it can darken the sky.
And this event of this darkening, the timing of the crucifixion that you've come up with
the exact day of when that could fit the 14th, 15th of Nissan and right before Passover and
all that, the temple veil being split.
Can you elaborate on these three things?
Because these seem to be like hot button issues right here.
Like this is where it gets really into the hot stuff.
You don't have to believe a guy rose from the dead.
You don't have to believe, you know, he walked on water and fed 5000 people.
But these events, are they completely mythical or is there a presence in history of some
type of evidence we can see and say, hey, this is possible that they're really mythologizing
natural events.
And one of them is the earthquake and the dust cloud.
Can you elaborate on that?
All right, let me start with the earthquake.
So there's something known as the Jerusalem quake.
It struck between 26 and 36 AD, probably in the middle of that time period.
It looks like it was a fault that broke about like this.
It was between a 6 and a 6.5.
The epicenter was about here.
This is about 40 or 50 miles away from Jerusalem.
So this earthquake would have been felt.
You would have been scared feeling this in Jerusalem.
It's what I call a couch mover.
You know, it might knock things off the wall and it might move your couch.
It's probably not going to kill you.
It's probably didn't kill anybody.
It probably didn't crash any buildings.
But any weak structure, poorly designed structure might fall over.
And any place that underwent seismic amplification would have some damage.
Now, the next thing to know about this earthquake is Josephus tells us in 19 BC, Herod decided
to rebuild the temple.
He took the existing platform and he expanded it to what we see today.
And it's a big, vast platform.
And the topography underneath the temple is undulating.
It's hilly.
So they had to put in what we call as engineers, fill.
Probably it was quarry chips.
They had to lay down all sorts of fill around here and then put those big Herodian paving
stones on to create this flat platform.
Well, in geotechnical earthquake engineering, when you have a fill, which is by definition
what we would call seismically soft, low shear velocity layer, laying on top of a seismically
hard, fast shear velocity limestone layer, when these shear waves are coming up from
the earthquake, coming up in the earth, when they hit that interface, they get amplified.
And the shaking in that soft layer now becomes two to five times as much as the surrounding
area.
So this temple mount area, clearly to any geotechnical earthquake engineer, is going
to undergo seismic amplification, maybe not in all areas.
And we don't know where the temple was.
So there's a mystery there.
But clearly in some parts of this area, there is going to be some seismic amplification.
And we can see that from the history.
The next structure after the temple was destroyed in 70 AD was Al-Aqsa Mosque, when the Muslims
showed up.
Al-Aqsa Mosque was destroyed completely twice in its first 400 years by earthquakes.
And one of them wasn't really even that big.
Al-Aqsa Mosque's roof collapsed entirely during the 1927 Jericho earthquake.
And in 2004, about a 5.2 earthquake off of Lebanon, pretty far away and not really that
big, opened up a five foot hole close to the temple of the rock.
So we have also historical evidence, but the engineering evidence that this place undergoes
seismic amplification.
So this is an earthquake that probably would have damaged the temple.
I'm talking about the one in the sediments.
I call the one in the sediments the Jerusalem Quake.
I call the one in the story the crucifixion quake.
I don't know if that earthquake is real, the crucifixion quake.
I work on the Jerusalem Quake.
In 2011, archeologists who were working on the western wall tunnel, which goes right
adjacent to the Temple Mount platform, found a pier.
This is like a column for a bridge, and it had earthquake damage in it.
And so the way they dated this layer is they looked below, and the layer below was the
end of this Herodian temple rebuilding project, which is approximately 27 AD.
It depends on how you arrange the sources.
And then the next level above it is the destruction of the temple at 70 AD.
Now this is not very good dating, but we have now evidence of seismic damage right adjacent
to the temple, which indicates probable seismic damage to the temple itself.
Then in 2020, someone did some microarchaeology dating, some detailed radiocarbon dating,
and they found out that this column of this bridge, this bridge had been expanded south
and doubled in size.
And the radiocarbon dating said this happened right around 30 AD.
So this gives us our date.
And the reason why this is important for archaeosismic information is, frequently when we look
at the archaeosismic record, we may not see a destruction layer from an earthquake, because
people repair after it.
So one of the indicators of an earthquake is this repair.
So we have earthquake evidence, and then we have evidence of this repair happening around
30 AD.
So I would say we have pretty good evidence that this earthquake, the Jerusalem quake,
did some damage to the temple.
And that probably would have been noticed and talked about.
This is the temple in Jerusalem.
It's the most important structure in the entire country and the entire religion.
So now we come to the next part, the veil.
Well, the first thing we got to look at is the Gospel of the Hebrews, right?
The legend of the Gospel of the Hebrews says that this was written by the disciple Matthew
around the year 40, maybe seven years after this event, before he left to evangelize.
And we have an ancient source.
It's quoted by Eusebius, but it is a papius.
And papius was supposedly a hearer of John.
In other words, he knew the disciple John.
This is one generation separated from this.
And he says, Matthew put the logia in ordered form in Hebrew, and everybody interpreted
as they could.
So this is talking about an ancient document in Hebrew that maybe wasn't too well written.
Maybe isn't the great literary constructions that we have in the New Testament Gospel.
And there's no evidence that the Gospel of Matthew written in Greek is translated from
some earlier Hebrew or Aramaic version.
This Gospel's lost, but we have 25 fragments of it quoted by other authors.
So Jerome, who wrote the Vulgate in 398, goes to the library of Caesarea, fishes out, he
speaks Hebrew, fishes out the Gospel of the Hebrews, which at this point is the Gospel
of the Nazarenes.
And we have no idea how faithful it is to this supposed original copy.
But in two different quotes he says, this says that the lentil of the temple broke
and crashed to the ground during this earthquake when Jesus died.
Well, to me, when I read that as a seismologist, that rings a bell.
Because the lentil, the doorway, that's the weakest part of the structure.
Maybe it's not the weakest, but it's real close.
You can go to Calot Nimrod in northern Israel where I forced Marco to go and do some filming
that he never put in the movie.
And there are 90 evidences from an earthquake in 1759 with doorway damage, arch damage,
and lentil damage.
It is a very frequent effect, seismic effect on these structures.
So when that is spoken, that's extremely credible.
Well, what is attached to the lentil, the curtain?
It may not be attached to the lentil, maybe to the side of the lentil, but if the lentil
is going to break, something's going to happen to that curtain.
It may crumple, it may fall off of a rod, it may tear.
Who knows what will happen to it?
But it's indicating that if that happened, there's curtain damage.
So what do we have in all three Gospels?
We have the curtain being torn.
So first off, what is the greatest sin in Hollywood?
The only sin.
Never be boring.
So these guys are going to describe what's happening.
What are they going to do?
Are they going to tell you the curtain crumpled or it got a little bit dirty?
No.
Tear it apart.
Tear the veil between the divine and human.
And now by making that dramatic, you've given it a second profound theological meaning that
you have now removed the barrier between man and mankind.
And that's the one we actually remember today.
It was so effective that we remember it.
I have no idea.
I wasn't there.
I don't know if this happened.
But this is the part of the veil.
So if you want, I can go into the last part, which is the dust, which is highly speculative.
Yes?
Okay.
So I have a chronology problem.
The problem I have is I could, I think, figure out a way to figure out the exact year and
time of year when the earthquake and the sediment happened.
But I don't know the exact year when Jesus died.
So I'm never going to be able to say, is that the same earthquake?
Because we have to do detective work because these guys didn't tell us what year.
So we have 30 and 33, but they're just probabilities.
So I'm looking at it and I'm realizing, let's say Matthew's written 40, 50 years later,
and he's the Jewish gospel.
So I think Matthew knew about this earthquake.
That's my opinion.
This earthquake fits so well.
I think he knew about it.
But over 40 years, you have a story of an earthquake damaging the temple and you have
the passion narrative.
And it's entirely possible that this earthquake was two years earlier, two years later, whatever,
and eventually they got conflated and put together.
So I have no idea if Matthew's timing is correct.
I think that this is more or less describing the earthquake I see in the sediments.
But no idea if he got the timing right.
So the only way I could come up with to try to figure out that timing is the other event
that they're talking about is darkness.
So what would cause darkness during that time of year?
Well that time of year is Hamzeem season when they have half a dozen to a dozen dust storms
about once every 20 to 50 years.
There is a massive blot out the sun from the sky, turn day into night type dust storm.
I've been in one in Cairo that wasn't that dramatic, but you can go on YouTube and you
can see videos.
I can share them with you where it's bright and shiny in the day and next thing you know
it's darkest night.
You can't see your hand in front of your face.
There are big whopper dust storms like that.
Now the advantage of that is a big whopper dust storm like that would leave one heck of
a deposit.
So it's not looking for anything subtle.
So the question I had is do we have an earthquake and a dust storm happening on the same day?
So for a long time I was looking at this dark layer and I was thinking maybe that's a dust
storm.
Finally I got my association with Cambridge University.
I looked at it under the electron microscope and son of a gun.
It looks like a dust storm from particle size distribution.
It's 95-98% below two microns.
I have to run a lot of other tests that cost money and I can't run them to see if that's
that dust storm.
And there's a lot of complications here, but the tantalizing thing is in Ingeti I have
my earthquake.
I have where I call the top of the earthquake and I have about 10 layers on top of it.
Normally that would indicate about five years of deposition, but that's not entirely certain.
That's what I'm working with on my article right now.
And then there is this dust layer.
So that would indicate, okay, this earthquake was a few years before this dust layer.
But if I go 30 meters down and I trace this earthquake all the way, guess what?
The dust layers laying right on top of the earthquake.
In other words, the dust layer is deposited right after the earthquake.
They happen the same day.
Now how do I explain how it's different in two things?
First off, I don't know.
This is why if I ever did this, I'd have to run some tests beforehand because I would
just be faking it till you make it if I was trying to figure this out.
But one thing I did notice is there's an earthquake above there about this far from around 110
AD and this earthquake lasted so long it caused the sediments to flow and it reactivated the
layer of the Jerusalem quake.
And it might have scraped off those ladders that caused that dust layer to be laying on
top of it.
That's just kind of one theory.
But it points out that I would have to understand the deformation history at a minimum to try
to understand if we have evidence of a dust storm and this earthquake happening at the
same time.
Holy crap.
Marco, what do you think, man?
What do you think?
So now you know.
So for over two years, my role was like after I listened to him, it's like how do I put
that on the screen?
How do I translate that in a way that everybody can understand it?
So that was a challenge.
But you know, we found like a great communication after a while.
But you know, I want to say, I want to say this, like when I jumped in this story, I thought
like, okay, so it's about the earthquake.
But during the process, you know, we started talking about like the dust storm, the darkness,
the blood moon, possible lunar eclipse, and I'm like, well, wait a second.
So this is not a story of an earthquake anymore.
So there is something more.
There is something more.
So we kind of like changed the direction in their ways and we went to interview many other
peoples and, you know, I was very interesting to understand what he just explained about
that because in my mind, it was like, okay, so we're not talking about one thing anymore.
So it's not just one thing, now it's three things.
So that introduced a complete different storytelling or idea of like, because the question now
becomes like, what if in that day, in the exact same day, exact moment, you got an earthquake,
you got a darkness, and you got a blood moon.
And you can explain scientifically the three things.
So you can prove that there was actually an earthquake and the blood moon is just a dramatic
way of saying a lunar eclipse and the darkness is another dramatic way to say a dust storm.
Okay, so what if you can prove all of that?
Well, for me, it's like, you still have the same question because even if you can prove
that, so how people are going to use this information, how believers are going to use
this information and how not believers are going to use this information.
So that doesn't answer that question that we talked about before.
So we're still building a movie around the question, not an answer.
So that was the moment where I really saw something like another path.
And I talked to Jeff and I said, I need a different voice in this film.
I don't want to hear like scientists, scholars anymore.
I need a psychologist, and specifically a Jungian psychologist, because now we are talking
about the questions like, what are the odds that everything happened at the same time?
Is that a coincidence, or is like a meaningful coincidence, like the synchronicity idea Jungian?
And so if that's what happened, what doesn't mean that, yeah, Jesus is really the Son of
God because when he dies, all of this happened, or again, you have the same thing, it's just
like a forced synchronicity, whoever wrote the Bible made sure to put those things together
so you can believe that.
And that is like a concept that for me was important.
The movie opens with that word, synchronicity, and there is reprise after.
And there is a very clear journey.
The first half of the movie starts that, okay, there was an earthquake, Jesus is the Son
of God.
By the halfway, you say like, no, that was the wrong news, boom, canceled.
So you start again, and you build it up again, but now with scientific evidence in those
three things that we talked about, dust, but then you get to the end that you still have
the same question, you know?
I think that bringing the union, you know, psychologist in was kind of trying to give
a philosophical, a philosophical aspect for those who may not be religious, for those
who may not be completely atheist, someone who might be thinking there's something out
there they can't explain, and there's that kind of philosophical.
It seemed a little spiritual, but it was like a union type, you know, synchronicity, spiritual.
And I like how you phrase that, because you could take it as completely forced synchronicity,
or you could say it's all majestic and literally is God and such, or another way of putting
it, and this is something that I thought was really complex that Mark Goodacre said on
my show, Dr. Goodacre.
He said, before 9-11 happened, there was a young boy who drew the Twin Towers burning,
and that they both came down at the same time.
Like he drew them both on fire at the same time.
This was well documented and was done prior to 9-11, and then sure enough, 9-11 happened.
And so this kid ends up on this documentary, and everyone's like, whoa, it's a prophet
kid.
He's the prophet.
Well, he just told the story.
He's like, look, I was drawing one day.
I just thought about, you know, drawing the Twin Towers, and he goes into the documentary.
I suspect, this is just me using natural tendencies to explain it, look, one of the towers has
already tried to be exploded one time, okay?
There was one attempt to blow up one of the towers at one point.
So they're right next to each other.
Maybe he had an imagination.
Maybe that day he drew it.
Maybe this is God, right?
A lot of people go there.
But the fact that he drew this, and then it actually happened such and such years later,
is like any religious minded person is automatically going to go proof, boom, evidence.
And so if you're already a holy thinking person, and you're in the Bible, and you study these
things, and you're following a guy who claims to be a messiah, and sure enough, all these
catastrophic events start happening because, well, let's not forget, they're apocalyptic.
James Tabor talks about that.
They already are expecting an end to happen soon.
They know the earth is going to end.
They know that fire is going to come.
They know.
And so here's all these little evidences.
It's like, this is the movement of God.
He's the real one.
And I could see that being a potential development for the Jesus character that you're talking
about.
You guys did fantastic in this, and I really do appreciate it.
As far as the conclusions, do you think these events, and this is going to be, you know,
I understand you guys left us with a question mark.
This is a little personal.
I want to get your actual opinion.
This is not separate science.
This is a guess.
Like I don't, if you can, if you can comment, if you really don't know, tell me how you
feel about it.
But as far as your conclusions, do you think these events were placed into the text?
Like you talked about synchronicity to mythologize the character and his movement, or do you
think there really was a Jesus movement that maybe existed in the thirties when all of
these events happened, and it just solidified the majestic angle of this movement?
Or is there some other explanation?
Maybe you guys can comment on this and tell me your thoughts.
Oh, I'd love to know the answer to that.
But no, I don't know the answer.
I don't know what, you know, this is what I've been working on, among other things,
is did this happen the way they said it?
And to tell you the truth, I don't know.
And to tell you the truth, there was one day I was sitting in a trench looking at the geology,
and I started thinking about the story and how the geology fit into the story, and by
the end of the day, I was completely useless.
And at that day, I said, all right, I have to stop thinking about the story, because
the geology in front of me is very complicated.
I have to just look at what the geology has to say.
And so that sort of divorced me from that.
Not just as an effort, but it divorced me.
I'm at the point where, I don't know, I have no idea what happened.
I think it's very possible that it could be written as it was, and I think it's very
possible it could be a forced synchronicity that they used to sell the story or that they
somehow mistook in the telling and the retelling and put it all together because they had an
intent to believe, maybe not an intent to deceive.
Well, me, you know, I can start with the same thing, say that we don't know the answer,
but I can tell you what I think now that it's outside the movie.
But actually, I kind of like, I think I put in a way a little signature by the end of
the movie, and I made sure that ending is after the credits.
So it's like, the movie's done, that's the movie.
And then I tell you what I think about it, which is basically, I use this over dramatic,
embellished language also for the story of the geologist, because I do believe that that's
the language of the Bible.
And so that's my point of view.
So I tend to believe, to me, it's easier to believe that it's a forced synchronicity also
because it's very hard, like, you know, things that are told by many people in so many years
that kept like a translation, translation, translation.
And after so many, you know, years, we're still here talking about it.
So that, for me, is hard to believe that the Bible is historical.
So I tend, and I didn't want to put that in the film, as you can see, like, it's very...
But I tend to believe that, but at the same time, I do not exclude that, you know, maybe
things if they're proven like with data, they might have happened at the same day.
But if that's the truth, and when Jesus died, those things happened, so he was the Son of
God.
So after that event, what I can tell for what I think is that they really made a bad use
of that information.
Christianity did a very bad job in the next 2000 years.
Oh, I love that answer.
That was really, really well said.
I mean, you were very kind and courteous and allowing it to just, well, if that is true,
I'm with you.
I think I agree with you completely.
I really enjoyed that.
Yeah, I think I need to do some research, I mean, really, to try and dig into this, because
where I'm at with this, I'm not buying this what it says, you know, I don't buy it.
I'm outside of the story.
I have many, many, many reasons to back up and say, OK, what's going on here is not historical.
That doesn't mean, like you said, that doesn't mean there aren't historical elements there.
The temple's destruction, historical event, it's talked about in the New Testament, historical
people talked about in the New Testament.
So there is historical people, places and things that are in there.
But the mythologizing, they enhance, they, they, they probably blew it up a little bigger
than what it was, especially if they're believers.
And so, and like you said, the telephone game, right?
That's really what it is.
It's like, hey, Bob, there's an elephant with a quarter standing on it.
Hey, there's a penny with a crocodile swimming.
You know, the story changes by the time you get there.
The only thing that stays the same is there was a penny in the story, but you got different
animals now and you got, you know, all sorts of different things happening.
And so I think that that's why you see variations of stories and different things
that are embellished, possibly, potentially.
And if it isn't oral, then maybe it was purposely, literally changed for whatever
the author's intention is, because the gospels, that's why they have what's called
the synoptic problem.
The gospels don't line up.
But anyway, I had some addendum to this whole thing.
If you don't mind the Buddha earthquake and other scientific evidence could produce
more documentaries for this mythological geologist figure that you had in the show.
What do you guys think?
Do you think we don't have to stop at Jesus?
Can we can we look at Buddha?
Can we look at these other amazing mythological characters and say,
well, let's look at their text.
It sounds like something happened around this time.
What do you think we can ask somebody else for that one?
I'm happy to write it.
But can we put somebody else as the lead character for that one?
But yes, the Buddha, the Buddha quake is very interesting.
Go ahead, Marco.
No, I would just say, do you have another hour?
So you surely want to ask that question?
You know.
No, you know, there's a parallel with the Buddha quake.
It's very interesting in the Pali canon.
Buddha orchestrates his death.
He dies on a full moon.
And right after he dies, there's a thunderstorm in an earthquake.
The heavens and re-earth react to the death of a holy man.
You know, it's almost the same literary motif that we have at the crucifixion.
Jesus, I think, orchestrates his death when he shows up the week before,
you know, on the donkey going through the Golden Gate.
That's the sign of the Messiah coming to kick out the Romans.
And then he goes and argues with the temple authorities.
Of course, he was going to get killed.
That's what he was really doing.
And so we have both of these figures.
So the question is, is it a literary motif or did these guys
somehow have some kind of intuition to die at this perfect moment
that their followers would see it and carry their message past generations?
Because let's face it, there have been 275,000 estimated Messiah claimants,
but only one is well known and there have been many, many, many Indian gurus.
But Buddha is the best known by far.
So, yeah, it'd be an interesting topic.
We'd never figure out the answer, but, you know, we might sell some tickets.
I wouldn't mind doing some geology on it.
It's a lot harder one, the Buddha quakes out.
Yeah, but it involves the same topics.
Like, and, and, you know, we see like spirituality is, you know, I said what I said before,
but I consider myself spiritual.
I'm just saying, like, so I don't close any door.
I just say, like, sometimes the problem is that we use information
in the wrong way because we push it in one stream or the other.
So, so it's very hard to just take what it is as it is.
And be open and keep going without, you know, going to the extreme
and pushing people and changing things and making choices and building,
building, building, building different things, you know.
So it's very hard to tell those stories.
But yeah, I'm happy about the the job, the result and working with Jefferson.
I really enjoyed the documentary.
This has been very educational and I've really enjoyed this.
You guys joining me here to talk about this in the documentary
and go into detail on some of these things.
I'm I'm I'm just scratching my head, so to speak, you know, wondering
what else we don't know.
Like, what is it?
It just piques my interest because I love I'm fascinated with this stuff.
I love this material.
I love researching the stuff.
And I hope everybody who's watching this right now takes the time
to go down in the description, click that Amazon link, watch it.
And if you don't have Amazon Prime, you guys, I don't think it's expensive.
You guys could rent the movie.
It's also on to be TV.
You can watch it with commercials for free on to be TV.
It's on four platforms.
So OK, well, we definitely need to get the link down there.
So whatever platform they have, they can get.
If not, I'm sure they can rent it and check out the movie and do me a favor.
Send the Amazon review.
If you guys send an Amazon review like seriously, let me know.
You guys send me any questions you have.
I'll make sure I get Dr.
Robert in price to answer your question.
If it's already been answered, I'll help you and I'll respond.
Say, hey, look, we already answered that question.
That way I can give you guys something in return for doing Amazon reviews.
We got to try and hit 50 of them.
So help me out and share this with friends, you know, get someone else
who might be a Christian who might go, see, I told you, man, this is this is
evidence and then get the skeptic, get them involved and let them go.
Come on, guys.
No, no, no and challenge.
But I really want to do more on this.
Maybe we can talk further as you come up with more evidence in a year
from now on this particular topic on the dust and see what else comes.
Maybe some more when what time of the year this stuff took place.
And if it adds more, it never ends.
It never ends.
It just keeps going.
Every time you figure something out, there's a new question.
That's what makes it fun.
Well, yeah, I just hope that everybody goes and checks out the video
ultimately so they can at least put their two cents in on what they thought
of the film, whether good or bad.
And I hope they like it because it makes me think of some of the
historical mythological tie ins and how these merge because a huge question
I have on my show is did Jesus even exist at all?
Like that's a serious question to ask, right?
Well, I came out full swinging.
Nope, he did not exist.
And as I've done this show, I retract that and say, actually,
I'm not so sure about that statement anymore.
I'm not saying he does, but I'm not saying he doesn't.
I'm agnostic on that question because there's so many positions
and ideas that make sense for there being a guy while simultaneously
you have your Dr.
Robert M. Price, Dr. Richard Carrier guys to say, hey,
he's an angelic figure.
He's a mythological angelic figure that never really existed on Earth.
And so I just that's a huge question on my show.
And this doesn't answer that question at all.
And it could still be true that there was an event,
a historical event taking place during these times.
So, yeah, do you guys have any final comments you'd like to make?
Well, I just want to say thank you for this great interview
because it's fantastic and also it feels good
and for helping the movie, promoting the movie.
And I just want to say like I hope I hope people can watch it with right eyes,
you know, and not be being open, you know, being open.
A lot of work that was like a lot of work has been done.
There's a lot of work behind this documentary.
We really invested a lot in time, energy, efforts.
For me, it was two years of my life,
but we are talking about 20 years of Jeff's life.
And that was always in my mind when I was telling that story.
So a lot of respect on that.
So it's like I hope that people can watch it.
Considering this, knowing that, you know,
someone has spent so much time with other people working on something.
So it's not just like a conclusion or something.
That's not conclusion, but something just, you know,
let's throw something on the screen just to do something, you know,
hopefully it's going to be a good information for a lot of people.
And thank you for having us.
Absolutely.
I mean, this is right up my alley
and I definitely appreciate the phone conversations
and the discussions we've already had pertaining to this subject matter.
I've learned a bit already
and I just makes me want to read and learn more.
You have your paper that's down in the description as well.
They want to go read and check out some of the
well, if you want to go to sleep, I was going to put it another way.
You can read his data because it's some complex material.
Unless you're someone who's familiar with this material,
I would go check it out.
You want to test what he has to say?
He's got something written on this.
You guys can check it out.
It'll be down in the description as well.
And they're working on other documentaries.
So if you guys are fans of what they're doing here, when they launch,
I will obviously try and plug them your way.
Let you know when these gentlemen are launching more documentaries.
You can go show them some love.
It'll be not related to the subject matter.
But if you want to help support them and you follow them personally
and what they do, you guys can do that and I'll make sure you guys have the connection.
So thank you guys for sharing your information and your knowledge
and how creative it was to come up with the crucifixion quake and the documentary.
I really do appreciate that.
Don't forget, guys, we had James Tabor, Dr.
Richard Carrier, Dr. Robert Eisenman, all these scholars were in the documentary.
Go check it out and let me know what you think in the comment section down below.
Like this video.
You guys know how to support us.
I love you guys.
And don't forget we are MythVision.
