We are still MythVision, home of MythVision podcast and MythVision television and radio
group.
I'm Dr. Luther G. Williams and my co-host is Derek Lambert.
We are all over Facebook, so smash that like button the way mythicists smash arguments
for historical Jesus.
And remember to like, subscribe, share, comment, and discuss us on YouTube, will you, because
you'll find many of our MythVision videos there.
And you can become a vital part of this program.
You might not be able to purchase one of the Dead Sea Scrolls just yet, but you can catch
our PayPal and Patreon accounts.
So please go ahead and show us some warm and fuzzy.
And let me, if I may, commend Derek Lambert, who in my absence over the past few months
has done an excellent job interviewing all these star-studded roster of researchers and
scholars, including Dr. Robert Price, Dr. Richard Carrier, Professor Robert Eisenman, Joseph
Batwell, James Valiant, just to name a few.
Those are a few of the names that you may know.
We also had MythVision producers Kevin Maxwell and Rhett Hale, who brought us world-renowned
astrothiology teacher Santos Bonacci.
Now we've got more quality shows planned with Dr. Robert Price.
Always a favor with us and with our viewers.
And we're going to talk to him about the legacy of the Dutch Radical School of Textual Scholarship
and his own role in it.
I might also say thanks to you, our viewers, and even guests who have inquired about me.
I am humbled.
Thank you so much.
As you may know, I've been working diligently on my book entitled Christianity by the Numbers,
Mapping the Esoteric DNA of a New Religion.
And some of you took the time to say hi to me on Facebook, and several have even contributed
financially to the project.
If you've done any of that or even thought about it, I am most grateful.
And for your donation, I talked about this with Derek.
I think it's the right thing to do.
Your name will appear in this historic book filled with exquisite information slated for
publication next spring.
So we want to provide some incentive for you contributing to this project.
And we'd love to have you be a part of it.
You know, the eminent professor, Dr. Robert Eisenman, famously claims to write for both
scholars and amateur researchers.
They are what I call the bricks and the mortar of this wall of scholarship.
Now, scholars do a great job at this because, of course, they get paid to do it if they're
professionals.
And amateurs also do a great job and often catch what the professional scholars miss
because they don't get paid for it.
They just do it for the love of it.
And somewhere in between those elusive electron orbitals is today's special guest, author
Michael Lido.
Michael was born in a small town in Pennsylvania and was raised Catholic by 1973.
His itinerant family was living in Charlotte, North Carolina.
There he got married and he joined the Navy serving on a nuclear submarine.
He describes himself as your prototypical math and science geek.
Well, at the end of the 1970s, he successfully served his sentences in the armed services
and in marriage.
Just kidding.
Please don't send me any hate mail on that.
And I guess Michael cut loose to follow the grateful dead around.
That's his favorite band.
And Michael was working as a subcontractor at various nuclear power plants as either a
radiological controls technician or radiochemistry technician.
So obviously he's had a lot of exposure to radiation there.
And he's going to be talking to us about the spider rock in Egypt.
Now you put that together, you know, radioactive exposure and spiders.
You know, is he suffering from Peter Parker syndrome?
I don't know.
Have we found the identity of Spider-Man?
Spider-Rock, Spider-Rock, all the secrets he will unlock.
I guess you know.
So Michael will be talking about that.
Yeah, well, hey, anyway, it fits.
So during this period, when Michael was a technician in radiochemistry, he took an earnest
interest in religion, seeking the truth behind the hype which led to his atheism.
And even as an atheist, Michael still had an interest in biblical stories and he read
everything he could get his hands on visiting used bookstores.
And of course, you know, as our audience members, that some of the finest Bible scholars are
atheists.
So Mike fits right in.
And he was doing all of this research before Al Gore invented the Internet.
Al Gore, ladies and gentlemen, that's right.
So Michael wrote one modest book in 1995.
It was published by the Atlanta Free Thought Society.
And he heard Richard Elliott Friedman speak on the subject of the hidden book in the Bible.
And that gave him his tailwind for researching and writing his major book.
And so if you ask Michael, how did you write that book?
He'll tell you it was just a matter of matching up dozens of Bible stories to their proper
stars and constellations.
And he's now authored two books on astrothiology and celestial mythology called On Earth as
It is in Heaven in 2009.
And then the following year, he released the secret astrology of the Bible.
Now I've got that one, and I want you to see it.
It's kind of difficult for me to see what's going on on camera, but this is his book.
Love the book because Michael has no axe to grind.
You know, these books on celestial myth and astrothiology are tricky.
You get into them and everything's going fine, but you get to page 308 and, you know, the
author says, these SOBs didn't tell us that this Bible story is really celestial myth.
And it blows the cover, so.
But he doesn't do that.
He does everything that you would expect from a scholarly work on astrothiology.
So please welcome back to MythVision podcast, Michael Lido.
Michael, great to have you on board.
Thank you.
A few things, Richard Elliott Friedman has changed his position.
He had originally thought that the Bible was a prose book written back in the Iron Age,
about 900 to 1,000 BC.
His later book, he moves it up to the time of Ezra.
So even he has changed his thinking on it.
Oh, okay.
Okay.
So he's no disdating.
I do plan on stepping off some toes.
We're going to do that, and I'm particularly my own toes, and if I don't step on it, on
your toes, I'm sorry, I tried.
If you don't mind, Michael, please just don't break any of our bones.
If you don't mind.
Yeah, I mean, I mean, really.
You feel like a popsicle stick and you tape it around it, and it's good to go.
Oh, okay.
All right.
Well, Michael, now, before you step on anybody else's toes, I'm kind of sorry to report here
that you've been spotted with Dr. Bart Ehrman in a widely published photograph on the internet.
Derek, do you have that photo?
Can you pull that up for us, please?
I think you've got some explaining to do, Michael, or else we might have to institute
impeachment proceedings.
What's going on here?
Well, you know, I met Bart, that was in the Ukraine, and no, he keeps calling me.
He writes a page or two, calling me up, but he just can't do anything without me.
But you know, I help him out.
Well, he's holding your book.
Yeah.
And how'd you get him to hold your book?
We want to know that.
He was there at a seminar, and I paid like $2,000 to go to this damn thing.
And when I do something like that, the people who have this seminar, they're going to do
something for me, buddy.
So he had to hold that up, and I took the picture with him.
You know, Michael, wow, okay.
He was the best lecturer at the seminar.
The best lecturer by far was Jody Magnus, who was, can you see that, sir?
Yeah, yeah, okay.
Got it.
She is an archaeologist extraordinaire.
She a professor at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
And this was her dig, the Stork Museum, some Hucox.
And that's where she was leading the archaeological dig.
Okay.
So it's got all these nice pretty pictures on it.
And of course, when you're digging in there, she's digging it there, and all of a sudden
it's like, oh, there's a synagogue here too.
Okay.
And when you get to the synagogue, guess what?
Oh my God, it's got a zodiac in it, right?
Whoa, how about that?
Yeah, how about that?
So if you read the magazine, it says, nothing to see here, folks.
This is like the eighth one that we found.
So it's so common.
We don't even have to talk about it anymore, right?
Oh my goodness.
I did read in her book, she started discussing this at length, and she says basically what
they believe, first off, that's supposed to be Helios in the middle, but at no place
on any of these eight zodiacs, does it ever say, this is Helios?
But it looks like him, you know, he's got the chariot and everything else.
So Helios, probably, we'll get into that in a second, Helios, yeah, and then, okay.
So a couple of these, the zodiacs are configured in different arrangements, some go opposite
of what they're supposed to be.
Like these two are opposite, this one is oriented the right way, I think.
That's right, I've noticed that.
You can see this one here that it's opposite, let me see if we can do something here.
You can see the nighttime sky, Helios is coming out of the nighttime sky, and this one, that's
Cephorus, Helios is coming out of the water, the water was symbolic of the nighttime sky.
So that means, in the opposite configuration, the reverse configuration is what the zodiac
would be at the daytime, at the sunrise, so I'm guessing these temples were dedicated
for at the sunrise, probably dedicated to Abraham, who they prayed to at sunrise.
And there are two panels of Abraham at Cephorus.
Okay.
All right.
Now, did we understand you to say that these Jewish people prayed to Abraham at sunrise?
They have their three daily prayers that they do, Abraham was the sunrise one, Isaac
was more of a mid-afternoon one, and Jacob was the evening one.
Okay.
Let me throw a curve right here.
And I mentioned it in my book too.
Okay.
I talked about the triad, how it's similar to the Hindus, how you have Brahma, the creator
for the morning, Vishnu, the maintainer for during the day, the sun during the day, and
Shiva, the destroyer at night.
You know, it's just a thread, but I don't want to miss it, Michael.
In Genesis 14, if memory serves, and you have Abraham going to war against the kings, he
takes with him 318 servants.
And in the Gospel of Barnabas, that number 318 is explained in terms of gamatria, and
from a Christian perspective, the cross.
But what's interesting about this is that 318 is the gamatria for the word helios, which
means sun.
So think about this, Abraham had 318 servants, which is really a reference to the sun.
And you're telling me that the Jews worshiped Abraham at sunrise.
It all fits together.
No, they said a prayer, I think to Abraham, I don't think it was a worship.
Okay.
All right.
I stand corrected.
But you see the connection here with Abraham and helios is 318 servants.
So, yeah, but you were talking about Abraham, you may be dealing with something that may
be a little bit anachronistic.
Yeah, I'm thinking about that.
But at the same time, we also have some confluence with Greek and Hebrew on this.
Abraham was an important figure, even in Maccabean times, and much later, they're still talking
about it.
So, to get back as to who this person is, what we know is during this time, it's 200
to 500 AD.
Everyone was consolidating their gods.
All of them were being related to the sun.
It was Helios Mithra.
It was Helios Ra.
In fact, I think this one, one of them has snakes there that are like similar to Ra,
I don't know that he would go after.
And then there was Helios Horus.
Helios Horus Harpichrates.
And one of them was Helios Yael, which was Yahweh.
So, they had Helios was also combined with the god Yahweh.
So, it's possible that this was him.
Now, the scholarly explanation is that this just is a generic representation of the sun.
This is a generic representation of the stars and constellations.
And that this is the sky in general, because God ruled over the heavens.
So, it doesn't really jive, although we do know they do have, one of these has the seasons
written in Hebrew in the corner, and it doesn't correspond to the zodiacs, although they may
be reading them from light times zodiacs rather than daytime too.
Is it the seasons, is it the seasons written or the months, which are the same as the signs
of the zodiac?
Now, I think it's the seasons are written in, they're four seasons are written in the
corners of one of the zodiacs, and it doesn't correspond to the months that are there.
So, yeah, the Jews were not very good astronomers, but that was, so Mithra, or not Mithra, Helios
was very important casting spells.
He was the god of mysticism.
He was the god of magic.
So, whenever they wrote a spell, they would write it out in the name of Helios.
And this is not the Heliozodiac, the Heliozodiac was actually all animals.
And it was similar, it probably came from the Egyptians, who had, it was a daytime zodiac,
and that zodiac is believed to have made it over to China and Thailand, that's where they
get their all animal zodiac from Egypt.
There's a more similar to Egypt than it is the Greek zodiac, and it was all animals
represented in there, and they would have to write different lines at different hours
of the day.
So, it was like the first hour, so you had to have, well, the first, you had to have
the right time to write the spell, you had to have the right, the sun had to be in a
certain sign, the moon hadn't been in a certain sign, and then you had to write the spell
during certain hours of the day.
In order to write that spell, you had to be in what they said was within the portrait
of Helioz.
And I don't know if that means standing outside in the sun, or actually being in the portrait
or being somewhere in this area, looking at the portrait of Helioz, but that's what it
said, you had to be in the portrait of Helioz.
So you would write, say, line one in the first hour of the day, line two in the second hour
of the day.
Now, the hours of the day, they had a special clock that they had for this, it was a sundial
that had three rings on it.
One was for at the equinox, one was for the winter solstice, one was for the summer solstice,
so that the hours of the day were different times.
So the first hour of the day, you could use it at any time.
And one of those sundials was found at Krumrah, big enough.
But yeah, the astrology was very big at this time, people were into personal astrology,
they wanted to have their personal astrologies done, they were doing it at this time.
The only situation was you couldn't predict when a person was supposed to die.
Caesar Augustus said, no, no, no, cannot do that, no prediction when people are going to die.
For obvious reasons, and you better not do it with the emperor.
Yeah, but the references that they had to heal, there's over 400 spells that reference Helioz Yahweh.
And Helioz is called in this of the living god, which is different than the pagan dead god.
And that is considered to be a Jewish influence on the Helioz aspect.
So there is one other story we know about Helioz.
That is with his son.
His son, Phaethon. Phaethon was a demigod.
And the other demigods would make fun of him, and they would say, no, you're not the son of Helioz, come on, you're a little puny thing, right?
And, you know, they stuffed him in a locker, take his lunch money, and he's like saying, hey, Pops, can I borrow the keys to the charity?
You know that effort? Diety chicks down there, you know, I just want to take it out, take a stroll around the block a little bit.
Of course, Helioz is like, oh, I don't know, you know, he's got that thing going, he goes off.
All right, you can do it.
So Phaethon gets in the chariot, starts zooming out.
Phaethon goes to the horses, hey, he's lightweight, he can't hold the end of the chariot down, and he's zipping all around through space and the sky.
He's come down, he's near the earth, he goes by Ethiopia, the next thing you know, you got this treasure down there.
This is like, you're ruining my creation, takes out a thunderbolt, there goes the chariot, there goes Phaethon, into the Erdogan River.
So Phaethon apparently had this romance with this guy, Cygnus, and he's diving in the Erdogan, pulling out pieces of him, right?
Okay.
So Phaethon got really impressed.
So they go, hey, we're going to reward you by making you into a swan and placing you in a constellation.
Now, for me, I would say, you know, gold, just give me the gold, right?
Not the constellation, you know, that's fine, just, you know, but that's what they did.
They made this constellation after this guy.
And of course, we all know anybody who knows anything about Golbeki Tepe knows that Cygnus is one of the constellations that people keep saying are there.
Oh, one more thing.
This is what the Jews said in a midrash about the zodiacs in the synagogue.
And this is the Holy One.
Blessed be he said to him, Abraham, just as the zodiac surrounds me and my glory is in the center.
So shall your descendants multiply and camp under the many flags, which my Shaqeen in the center of Shaqeen is like a house of God type thing.
So the only thing we have written on the zodiacs and the synagogue is that it is Yahweh being in the synagogue.
Now, now, Michael, I've got, I've got a reproduction here of the same zodiac.
And I don't know if we can catch this on camera, but this is a source book that I'm using for my book.
And it's called Understanding Jewish History.
It was written by a Jewish person, Saul Schrafstein.
And on the front here, we have the same zodiac figure that you showed us.
That's also on the frontispiece in the book, and it's on the back.
And wouldn't you know there's not a word about this figure?
There's no attribution.
And in the table of contents, you look up, you try to look up zodiac.
It's not even there.
So it's what kind of tease is this?
And so are we being disingenuous here?
Or is there something else going on?
Or is it just indicative that there's some tearing, some schizophrenia about owning up to the zodiac or not?
But I mean, it seems just kind of, well, more than curious that this image should be used and not talked about.
What do you think about that?
Yeah, it's for sale.
And I can't find any scholars who really own up to it.
They tend to brush it off.
I was reading one passage by Herschel Schenck, who says, gee, it's very interesting.
I really don't know what to make of it.
And that was about the only doubt I've seen.
There is an interesting thing about Jewish mysticism from this time period,
that they wrote about their magic and mysticism.
The writings are called heckalote.
And if you want to Google that, look it up, it's H-E-K-H-A-L-U-T.
I'll sit here and I'll wait for you to Google it and then we'll come back and then we'll start over.
But yeah, that's all gone for several hundred years of writings.
I'm not sure exactly who wrote them, what's that, why they were written.
But it's kind of like the go-between between the Essenes mysticism and your era of the Kabbalah.
And this was like kind of a go-between of the mysticism.
So if you're really into it, that's where you can look that up.
There was a common expression that seeped into the Bible of nations being under heaven.
And in rabbitical Judaism, that meant under the influence of the Zodiac.
And then of course, there was Israel only, which was above the heavens.
So in the Genesis creation story, you have the waters, which is explained, of course, are people.
Waters are people, and that's the flow of the nations and the people in their culture and languages.
So waters above the heavens, above the influence of the Zodiac influenced by Yahweh,
because Yahweh is in control in case of Israel, and you have those that are under the heavens with astrological geography
and each one of the nations, as you know, influenced by a sign of the Zodiac.
So I found that interesting.
You see, right in the Bible, in the New Testament, nations under heaven.
And people read that and they don't realize what's being talked about there.
That's the Zodiac.
Yeah, and you're going to see part of that was from Gnosticism.
And we'll, I think we'll talk about that a little later.
Okay.
All right.
So I can't see you guys anyway.
Can you see my stuff there?
I can see it.
How about you, Derek?
Derek, can you see it?
Absolutely.
Yeah, because I can't see you guys anymore.
I did something.
I'm at a disadvantage.
My screen is really, really small.
But if it's something I have to take a look at, I can squint and get real close.
But I kind of leave it to you guys if it's a visual cue.
So you can see the pillar from Golbeki Tepe there, right?
Okay.
All right.
This right here, as I pointed to, this is Cygnus.
Right on here.
That's the one that all the scholars say is Cygnus anyway.
Let's put it that way.
This points to the star Deneb, which was the polar star around 10,000 BC.
And I think Deneb was out in this area here.
It's a little bit off to the side.
That's the closest thing they can come to, although it looks like this is in the center here.
So this was supposed to have been Cygnus, although we know that Cygnus was a,
the Greeks created the constellation.
Now, there's no provenance to take it from here to Greece.
Because when you go to Acadia, this is not a bird anymore.
In Acadia, this was a panther.
So, yeah, who could do with the panther?
And it went from here and went all the way down to Cassiopeia and, you know, it was a huge constellation.
So it wasn't a bird.
There are a couple of things here that are from this time that you don't hear the authors of all this stuff talk about.
One is right here, the sitting vulture.
Vega would have a sitting vulture in the ancient times.
And it's right where Vega is supposed to be.
The dolphin, right here, we have a headless man down here.
And in ancient times, it was believed the dolphin was the headless man.
Scholars say this has nothing to do with astronomy at all.
It just happens to be a depiction.
You have a scorpio here that is terribly misplaced.
If that is indeed scorpio, that might be a generic symbol for the sun since scorpio was about where the solar solstice would be.
It might be more like a pictogram, if anything.
But it's not, this would be the head of Pegasus.
The head of Pegasus in ancient times really wasn't part of a constellation.
Pegasus and the Acadians was a field.
It was called IKU, that was the field.
And scholars believe that the Greeks mistranslated that into horse.
And because of the way the fish crossed it and the fish had wings, that they gave the water and the wings to the horse.
And that's where Pegasus came from.
Michael, how do you think the constellation transmutated from a bird to a panther and then in Greece back to a bird?
Where did the Greeks get the iconography of a bird from since it had already been in another culture translated into a panther?
Well, they did the same with Andromeda and Cassiopeia and Cephas.
They did a lot of translate changes there.
They also got some of their stuff from the Egyptians.
In Egypt, in the planisphere of Dendera, this is a falcon headed god killing a bull.
And they're not exactly sure who that is or whether it's actually in Cygnus or not.
So that is where it came from there.
There's also something that a Greek guy named Tusser wrote about.
He lived between BC and AD.
And he came up with alternative constellations.
He didn't like the standard Greek ones that they had or he used these for a strong inheritance.
And these are based on Egyptian, Mesopotamian and Greek constellations.
Now, there's a few of them that were different.
One was up here where Cygnus was.
This was just not Cygnus.
This was just known as Big Bird.
And Pegasus was simply a horse.
Some people hypothesize that these were pre-Greek constellations that go back to Peg and Greece.
Also Zeus, Zeus was the king.
He was where Cephas was.
And there are others that say that he just made it up.
Which is probably what happened is he just made it up.
Now, one of the things they did at Golbeki Tepe was they discovered people buried in homes.
At least seven of them that were decapitated.
So here we have a decapitation.
It was believed that the head and the head would be taken up by the vultures.
That was where the spirit was.
And that would be taken up to the heavens.
Now, Michael, is that at the site itself?
They found people in homes because originally it was thought that nobody lived there.
But it was strictly for worship.
Well, it was one of the sites.
It may have been from a little later.
I'm not 100% certain, but there were homes there that people were buried.
They buried them in the homes.
But there's only a few, a handful.
So there must have been something special about these people who were buried in the homes.
And we also know that the skin on their skull was scraped away.
So they made a skull.
They took all the skin off.
So one of them there's all in the Ukrainian.
So they took the brains out.
And it was believed that this might have been cannibalism.
Some say no, some say yes, but it's possible.
I mean, all of our ancestors were probably cannibals.
There's no getting around that.
And that is why they made a law, a rule against cannibals.
Osiris, in the rites of Osiris, they made a law that says, no, you can't be a cannibal.
That was bad.
Okay, my Mr. Mackie.
Cannibalism.
Right.
Not good.
Okay, so in the spider rock, which is scholars have trouble dating this.
I think the last time I was on, I said this was about 7,000 BC.
And that cannot be correct.
I don't think that's correct, because here we have fields up here.
And from what I've been reading, agriculture in Egypt is not known to have started until about 6000 BC.
So it may have been a little earlier.
But this is important because this is probably wheat and barley fields, which is what they've used in the rites of Osiris.
They made beer and wheat cakes.
So when you initiate that, that was part of the rites.
Now, the Osiris rites were to help you go to heaven.
When you died, you got asked a lot of questions to see if you can go into the, into the good part of the afterlife.
And they'd ask you a question.
Yeah, and they'd ask you questions like, did you kill anybody?
Did you ever wish anybody harm?
Did you ever think bad about anybody?
So there's like 21 questions and they tend to get tougher.
And it looks like nobody's going to heaven.
So in order to help you get by, you do the Osiris rites and you consume the body and blood of Osiris through beer and the wheat cakes.
The Dionysus group would take this up through wine and wheat cakes.
And if you ever had Greek beer, you know why they had wine.
And then this would later go into the Christianity Eucharist.
So that's what they had there.
Now, I talked about the last time in here, I'm not going to bore you with Neath and Horace.
Clearly, we're missing Osiris.
And that would be right here.
The scales at that, this time will probably been associated with Toth, who was a solar deity who later became a lunar deity.
And he was later on, he was even associated with Mercury.
We will get to that in a second.
He was an ibis headed God.
And we have a bird over here that's not quite, I wish this was an ibis.
This would make it so easy if this was an ibis, but it's not.
Unless you can say, well, that's probably an ibis, but as well as that's a lion.
Now, one of the things I also discovered on here is Ursa Major.
Maybe or maybe not.
And it could just be how the rock is.
Okay.
But the big differ was a bull's thigh.
And this represented the God Meskinet.
And it was through Meskinet that souls were born.
And then when they died, they pass again through Meskinet.
Now, if you know how the big differ is, it's a big opening with a tail on it.
And I am thinking that the thigh was more of a euphemism.
Because if you look at the Meskinet, this is her.
And what she's wearing there as a hat is a big cow uterus, which kind of makes sense.
And she's talking about burb.
Now in the Bible, they also use thigh as a euphemism for genitalia.
Right.
Right.
And two cases are my favorite.
Let me see if I can share this.
No, stop sharing.
There we go.
Two places are all my favorite.
One is in Abraham, where the servant reaches up Abraham's tunic, places his hand on his thigh.
On his thigh.
Right.
Right.
And that was actually his testicles.
And that's where they get the word testify from, and the word testament from.
So I always think of the new and the old.
Do you mean to tell me these guys grab each other's balls when they were making covenants and stuff like I testify to you.
This is the truth.
Yeah.
Imagine today I walk up to you.
You're lying, bro.
You're lying.
And I go, come here.
I tell you the truth by your testicles.
I like to do it in modern day course.
I mean, you know, hold on, hold on.
Luther's black.
Hold on.
Luther's black.
Luther.
Yeah.
Show me some respect.
Use both hands.
Luther, I testify to you.
Luther.
I testify to you, brother.
Oh, God.
Sorry.
I went there.
Sorry.
I went there.
Oh, man.
You guys, you guys are wounding me in the stones right now.
I'll tell you.
It's hilarious.
I think that was a.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Another one.
Numbers.
Okay.
A woman gets pregnant.
Okay.
And it turns out she's pregnant by somebody who's not her husband.
Oh yeah.
So they don't stone her to death.
Okay.
God.
Hey, Moses.
I got this potion for you.
Don't give this to this woman.
And it will kill the fetus.
It's like, okay.
And then you read later in the Bible where it says that it caused
her by two rocks.
And that was the, the fetus being killed by God.
So unless you have,
So, so the thigh was a euphemism both for the male and female sex organs?
Right. And of course in uh, feet was also a euphemism also too.
Right, right, right. Giving birth between the feet, the baby, the
youth coming from between the feet. So it's kind of that uh, so you know, so if
you're uh, you know, if you're born again, believe in Jesus type person and
you're um, you're against abortion, you're against the Bible,
you're going to go burn in hell, so. Oh my goodness.
Told you I stepped on toes, but
Wow. Yeah, they, yeah, they like to use uh, was that Jeremiah?
Now he knew you in this room as, as their only proof that God is
for uh, who's against abortion and that's known as uh,
room imagery and that would meant that Jeremiah,
just Jeremiah, God knew in the room, not everybody
and that was designated Jeremiah's special. He would be the special prophet
and everything he said was true. That's what that meant.
And if you look in Bible study guides that were written before Roe v. Wade,
it tells you all about this room imagery and then after Roe v. Wade, it was like,
oh no, this is for everybody. This is, you know, it changes the whole meaning.
So there's a lot of politics going into these, these Bible study guides.
Michael, I would imagine that since lifespans were short back in these days,
infant mortality was probably high and aborted
fetuses for one reason or another would probably be high. We don't talk about it.
They had, the Jews had laws regulating abortions.
Uh, you just didn't willingly abort a fetus.
There are, for instance, if a woman was going to be stoned to death
and she was pregnant, they would abort the fetus first
and then they would kill her.
So, and you can look it up, all this stuff, it's right there online.
Everything I'm saying is right there online. You can google everything. All in
Wikipedia.
Hmm.
Derek, any comment on that?
Uh, very strange. I've never heard of some of this stuff. Like,
the way that it's being phrased is unique, but it also tells me that this is not
the second century BC type of, uh, Israel that we're speaking of here. You're
talking, you're going way back into some, some pre-hyper monotheistic
culture of Israel. And that's interesting because it looks so much like other
cultures in many ways. But we see these words in the Old Testament.
And when I'm looking at these words the way I've understood them before, even
just the funny testicle, testament, you know, these words kind of make you go,
I've been reading this thing all along and I've been metaphorically grabbing
someone's nuts when I said it every time, you know.
And that's, now you know, now you know.
But I like what you did with the stone, um, in Globeca-Tepi. And I think they've
been coming up with more information on that. You're, you've actually mentioned
this, I think. They've been coming up with more
information on Globeca-Tepi as the years go by more and more.
And my question is, ultimately what would you say? Because I mean, I know
they try to say we're hunter-gatherers or something.
What would you say is going on with this? Because of all the research you're
finding out? Well, they were initially the hunter-gatherers
at this point. And then within 500 years of building that
monument there, they started the farming.
They switched over to an agricultural group. So we don't really know,
and they, and they buried the site themselves.
You know, this wasn't just buried over time. They took shovels and
put dirt in there and covered it up. They, for some reason.
You know, so I'm not sure. Most of the monuments, most of the stone pillars
that were simply holding up a roof.
You see them all there. Yeah, they're the tees. They're mostly just holding up a
roof. So if you stick a rock in the ground,
and depending on where you stand, it's going to point at something.
And the fact that this one really wasn't pointing anywhere, so they kind of like
grabbed, oh yeah, the pole. Oh, you know what? I missed the whole thing on that.
I missed, yeah, let's go back. Let's do it. Yes, yeah, let's do it.
Let's go back. Let's see. Where, where are we at on here?
What the hell? Let's go back. Okay.
All right. You got it now? Can you see the, uh, nothing's up yet?
I see a whole bunch of stuff right now, though. I see all these pictures, but
nothing. Nothing, nothing in the middle. Yeah.
What are you keying on? Okay.
All right, let's try again. I'm glad we're going back to the
Rebecca Tepi angle because there's, I still got some questions about that.
How about that? You got it now?
Yep. Okay. Okay. Now, one of the things that did have, now there was,
they keep coming up with explanations on this, right?
When was a comet hit Greenland, which is like, uh,
yeah. Okay. But that's like building a monument in Nova Scotia of a comet hit
San Diego. It's like, it just doesn't make much sense.
But there was an event that took place possibly at this time.
Uh, and that was the, uh, supernova right here in the Cygnus loop.
And it was right about here that it took place, which is near, like I said,
none of this stuff is drawn to scale. And it lit up the nighttime sky.
Some say it was probably about the brightness of about a quarter
or of a crescent moon. So it was, it was very bright.
And this would have lasted for quite a long period of time. So it,
this could have been what they were actually looking at with this, uh, device.
Also, this area was known as the nighttime sky. And if you read in my book,
that is where I place, uh, where Joshua stops the sun in the sky is right at that spot.
That was the nighttime sun right there.
And I'm thinking if it's pointing at anything, that is what it was pointing to.
And depending on who you read that event happened anywhere from 5,000 to 15,000 years ago.
So it's could be in that time.
Okay. And how big was that incident? How, how far did it spread?
Uh, today it is currently about six times the diameter of the moon.
Now, how big it was back then, you know, who knows, but it would have been seen today.
Whoa.
Diameter of the moon, 2,160 miles. You're looking at 18,000 miles,
six times the length of the country. Massive. Just unbelievably massive.
You can Google, yeah, you can Google Cygnus loop and you can look that up and that's,
that's where that took place. Now, let's go back to Egypt some more because we can look up pictures
again. I think I got to do the share thing here first. There we go.
And we should be sharing now, right?
Uh, we, we, we were, what do you want to show us?
Both. Okay.
All right.
This, this is right here. Petrographs in the Wadi, whatever. This is located between the
Red Sea and the Nile River, probably closer to the Nile River. And what we have here,
this is from 3,400 to 3,000 BC. We have right here, a big boat. This is supposed to be a goddess on
it. And we have a little boat off to the side. And if you ever try to Google this online and images,
generally all you get is this boat here. You don't get the little one off to the side.
Obviously I copied this out of a book. And up here on top, we have a star. So I'm guessing this is
the goddess of the inundation right here. And that star would be Cirrus, which rises on the
inundation. Right. Right. And the cup that was normally there. And this was probably Argo,
which is more off to this side, but it's drawn a little bigger. Born underneath Cirrus. This
constellation over here is the modern constellation of the dub. This was known, there's one star in
there known as fat. I think in Arabic, and it means literally means thigh. And this was also
a star associated with the inundation. But it wasn't associated with the inundation in
northern Egypt, which is what that's lower, lower Egypt.
So the constellation of the dove was not a dove originally. Columba, I think,
was its name. That was about like 1700s or so they decided to make that thing. Because this
is too far in the south for them to have seen this. But where it's at, which is like closer to
down by Thebes, you could see these southern constellations come in and play a role. So that
is something you got to think about when you're looking at these constellations is
what could they actually see? Because sometimes Aquarius can't be seen like in upper Mesopotamia
and they used an eagle up there to denote the winter solstice rather than Aquarius.
Okay. So voting was very big. Go on. Yeah, voting was very, very, very big. Very important
occupation. It was one where the common man could make a decent money. And the boat
would cost you about what it would cost the house.
So the other, there's an older group and some older stuff.
Oh, this is classical stuff right here. This is
Babylonium. And this shows you the difference between the sun is four. Solstice, equinox,
four. Right here, eight-sided, is always Venus. Because Venus takes, it's an eight-year cycle
that we go through with Venus. We go around eight years, it goes around 13 years and get
back to the same point. So this is semi-universal among cultures. Likewise, the four is also
and of course the crescent moon. And you can see all these other zodiac constellations
signs down here too. That is the famous, not that fly up, which is known as the Egyptian
stone hedge. And this is in the western desert. And it was used, what scholars say, this
predicted or show that the Egyptians knew about procession of the equinox. Now, procession of
the equinox is like the granddaddy of astronomy. The Greeks claim to have discovered it in 140
BC. Right. But here, it's the Egyptians had discovered it.
What they did with it, I don't know. But apparently they lost the discovery, because they had to be
rediscovered all over again. But the guys who made this were cattle herders. They just, they were
like messiah. They just, you know, bringing their cattle around and they built this up.
And it's kind of like, hmm, okay. Now, supposedly in the book Black Genesis,
which talks in depth on this, if you really want to read about this,
it goes in depth on this site. He claims or surmises that the people who built this
moved directly east along the same line, which is right about where the
tropic of cancer would be. Capricorn, the northern one. And it's cancer.
Yeah. Right about where Elephantine Island is. Big important spot, Elephantine Island.
This is, you can see this is where the first cataract was.
There was a Jewish cult there. We'll talk about that in a minute, which is why we're here.
The main god of Elephantine Island was Cunum. Cunum was also worshipped down in Nubia.
He was a potter. His wife was Santis. She was the goddess of the, I think the inundation and his
daughter, Annuket, was the goddess of the Nile. So they had this whole thing here with the Nile.
But as a potter, he made man out of clay. And this is a very common creation story.
It was how he made man out of clay. Each had a lot of creation stories. This was one of them.
Now, if you go south in Nubia, they have a story about the fall of civilization
or the fall of man, I should say. Just like you had in the Bible, you had the fall of man.
They have a story of the fall of man here. And they claim the fall of man was the creation
of civilization. That's what the fall of man was. In the Bible, first thing Cain does is build a city
and his descendants became the artisans, the brass workers, the musicians, the creators of civilization.
So it's kind of interesting how creating a civilization became the fall of man.
Now, there was a big debate as to why we built cities and became civilized. There was
all we did it because wars were protection. And they were looking for this virgin spot on the
planet where the city had grown up and that was not changed by something else. It just kind of
grew up and then died out. And they had a hard time finding it. And eventually, it did this
big documentary on the discovery channel. They found one in South America cut out. And they had,
of course, see, you have the nice little stone here, the little astronomical thing for symbols.
And they started digging around as trying to figure out why these people
came, got together and build a civilization. They were involved in trading. They were trading
with people on the coast. They had seashells here. They were trading with people in the Amazon
jungle. And they discovered they liked music. They had musical instruments. And they,
the other thing they discovered while going through their pottery, were the different
things that they took. One of them they discovered they were taking hallucinogens.
And another thing they discovered they were taking chemicals that would enhance sexual performance.
So we now know why civilization came about. It's all about sex, drugs, and rock and roll.
That's why we formed civilization. That's the meaning of life. That's the fall of man.
It's the fall of man, right? Meaning of life. Don't go any deeper or any heavier.
Ask any teenager. What is the meaning of life? And they can tell you sex, drugs, and rock and
roll. We knew everything when we were teens. We know it now. All right. And I thought civilization
was a good thing, Michael. I don't know. Yeah. So let's talk about Elephantine a little bit.
Let's stop here. They had that Jewish community there. And sure enough, there was a lot of
papyrus that was discovered. Right. This papyrus goes for, it actually stems over several thousand
years, about 3,000, 4,000 years. It goes from like 1,000 AD to like 2,000 or 3,000 BC. And it's
written in all different types of languages. And there is a good book on America. I picked a book
up on it. A big book paid about 80 bucks for kind of has all these papyrus and everything else.
And the interesting is you can go into, you can look at the Jewish families who live there.
You can look at where they live, what homes they stayed in. There's a whole genealogy tree.
We know everything about them. They came there. When the Assyrians started to march,
they left the Northern tribes left, and they went up to a city called, a little Oasis town called
Pomaira. And then some of them went south and then battled the Assyrians, got captured and,
you know, sent away. But they, they're up in Pomaira, living up there with the locals.
And they lived as a separate community. They stayed to themselves, basically. They lived there.
There were some intermarriages, not a lot. Yeah. And they, and then when Babylon started,
when Nebuchadnezzar started to march, they said, Hey, let's leave. So the whole community,
both, both the Jewish and the non-Jewish group, they decided to get out of Nebuchadnezzar's way.
And they went down all the way down to Elephantine, a long way to go. And they moved and they stayed
there. The Jews built a temple there, lived there for a while. The biggest and best occupation,
Elephantine, was boats. If you can go up and down those cataracts, if you can navigate those
cataracts in a boat, you are making money because now you're, you're doing the Nubian trade, right?
Up, up and down. Elephantine was known for the, the pink marble that Egypt used. That's where
they came from. A very important area is believed to be Egypt's first city. Right. Right. So the
Jews stayed there and they, when Persia came through, they were conscripted into soldiers.
They were paid in with food rations and silver. And they did not allow the Jews to be leaders of
the groups, but they were soldiers. And there was some question as to what they can do during the
Passover because they had to have, they couldn't drink wine or the strong spirit to drink a
Passover. There's certain days they couldn't work. So they're, they're going to get, they're trying to
get some clarification on this. So they're writing back and forth with the Persian government on this.
And there, we, we know that there were certain people who were historical characters in, in this.
Well, there were contemporaries of, there was Darius II, they wrote to, and they end up with,
there's letters there that are written to, who's it? Bogas, Bogas, who was the governor and general
over Judea. And then the, the high priest, Johannin, the one who had murdered his brother.
He was the high priest in Jerusalem at the time. So there were letters to them. And what had happened
is the mayor of Elephantine left, left out, left another guy in charge. The Jews were accused of
breaking into people's homes and robbing them. And then what happened is he signed a letter,
okay, and for people to go in, destroy their temple and rob their temple. So the temple was
destroyed, the pillars were knocked down. So they're trying to get permission to rebuild
the temple and hold sacrifices again in the temple. So they're writing Jerusalem for this
permission and Jerusalem sends back, yeah, it's okay for you to rebuild the temple.
But they don't say anything about the blood sacrifices. They didn't say, yeah, you can do them.
I know you can't do them. It's kind of like, you know, so it seems to me that they were still
coming up with, and this is about 404 BC, time wise. The last Jewish writing, yeah, the last
Jewish writing of this period was like 399 BC. That's when it stops off and then for several
hundred years. So Michael, with the synagogue system being formed at this time out of the Jewish
experience in Babylon, this temple in Elephantine, what was it modeled on? Was it modeled more on
the synagogue or more on the temple that had already been destroyed?
It was a temple. It was a temple. Yeah, so it was a temple, not a synagogue.
No, no, you didn't misspeak. You said it was a temple. I'm just asking for clarification, was it?
The temple and not simply a learning structure, which was major violation of deuteronomy,
but it appears that deuteronomy probably wasn't being invoked or being developed at this time yet.
They're still in the works developing deuteronomy, and the fact that they didn't give them permission
to do the sacrifices means that they were probably figuring there. Yeah, they're right in the middle
of probably writing it. That's what I was going to say. I was going to say, it sounds to me nobody's
figured out what they really want to do yet, or they don't even, and this is what Luther's been
saying, and I don't want to rabbit-troll too often, but Luther's been coming at me going, D,
Genesis, I'm not trying to open up this kind of worms right now. That's okay. I mean, we're on the
same page, guy. I mean, shit, he said Genesis could ride all the way into the second century B.C.'s
when Genesis may have been written, not saying that there aren't elements that are taken from
older literature, older myths, but that the Genesis account itself might be second century B.C., so
who's the same? We will get into that. Okay. I will tell you how that comes about. Interesting.
Well, guess what, man? Let's first make a testament real quick that you're going to make sure you don't
do that. Yeah. Yeah. Why don't you grab that thing, Derek? Let's see.
Let me get my tweezers out. I'm just kidding.
So one of the things that we know about the names of the people here, there's nobody named Moses,
nobody named Abraham. We don't have no David, no Solomon, none of these really old testament names.
I think there was a Nathan in there, but there's nothing that would indicate that they knew who
Moses was. I mean, they're talking about the Passover. Moses is never mentioned in all these
letters going back and forth on the Passover. Never mentioned Moses once. No one's named Moses.
It's like... Right. So you're kind of wondering when did they come about, where they written
later? So that's the question. So later, when you get into several hundred years later,
when you finally start picking up with the Jews again, probably around the A.D. period,
you have the Abraham's and stuff like that. Those things start popping up again in the
Eliphantine virus, but not during this era. This Ezra and Nehemiah era. That's fascinating.
So how are we doing on time? We're going? I mean, I love it at this point. Derek, are we okay?
I think we're doing great. I enjoy this because you take a different angle than anyone I've ever
heard, first of all. And you're like... Oh, you ain't waiting. I enjoy this because you talk
Old Testament, you know, a lot too. A lot of what I've been doing lately is a lot of New Testament,
and that is a apples to oranges or bill here when it comes to politics and the things that we're
delving into. And so you're kind of bringing me back to some of this awesome stuff. You remind
me of some of the things William G. D. Verge talked about, which is actually kind of in the vein of
mythicism somewhat in the fact that like some of these characters, you're not saying they don't
exist or may not have existed. But on what basis? And someone asked a question on myth vision not
too long ago, and they said, I get their perception. Questions come from certain perceptions.
That's what I love about being a host is I don't have to believe or agree
with anyone. Right, I just have to agree with you and make testaments with you and stuff.
Yeah, you like that, don't you? Someone's going to comment some shit. Someone's going to
derrick in these testaments, man. Jesus. He's definitely, you know, anyway, what I was going
to say is that they said, all right, if you take away these historical figures that make their history
their genealogies up, make who they are up, what do they have left and how can you even call them
Israel? So technically what he's saying is he's saying he's arguing for historicity by saying
these guys that you mentioned, David, Nathan's the only name that you mentioned recently here
that might be there, Moses, all these people. If you take them out and they're not in the picture,
what does Israel have left? They have no history. So his argument was simply saying,
it's most probable these are historical characters. That's why they exist as a nation, blah, blah, blah.
However, I was thinking it's easy to borrow ideas from your surrounding cultures. Why can't they
borrow figures from Egypt, figures from Babylon, figures from Acadia, figures from the Mesopotamian
myths and other societies that they're involved in cultures and whatnot, that they're now taking
it and create, incorporate their own mythological history. I don't see why that couldn't be possible.
That's where we're going right now. Okay, look, let me buckle up real quick.
Super. Super. So the Jews themselves, if you read in Ezra Nehemiah, what happened was when
Nebuchadnezzar came through, he destroyed the temple. And according to the Bible, all the books,
all was destroyed. The Old Testament, the Torah was destroyed. It was burned. It did not exist.
So here he had this 500-something BC. There is no Torah. It doesn't like it. Now some scholars say,
they weren't all destroyed. They were still some there. But there's really no evidence for that.
So if Ezra Nehemiah was one, those two books were actually one book at one time.
Historically speaking, they span 134 years. The last historical person mentioned in there
is a high priest who was a contemporary of Alexander the Great. So Ezra Nehemiah could not
have been written before the time of Alexander the Great. So it would have been after like 300 BC.
Right. Now it's possible that they made up the characters of Ezra and Nehemiah to explain
how the book came about. But it could actually be that they were historical people. And they were
just kind of bringing this about. Ezra was taken into captivity. He was with the second group
that came back to Jerusalem from captivity, not the first group. And he was not the only person
there. So when he's in captivity, the Chadians were there who were the astrologers. They also
took Egyptians in there. Some of your high priests and your intellects from Egypt were there.
The Greeks were there. You had, as a matter of fact, Pythagoras died there. He went there and
supposedly died. So you had Greeks there trying to learn astrology and astronomy and everything else
from the Chadians. And you had all this influence there. Now Ezra, he would have been there during
the last king of Babylon, who would have been Nabadias, who I just recently discovered,
Nabadias. I was reading a book on Cuneiform by Irving Finkel. And if you, he's been an interesting
guy. And after you watch all the U.M.I.T. division stuff, you can look at his YouTube. He's really,
he's funny. He's an old guy from the British Museum and he knows his Cuneiform. Although his
books are kind of thin, you know, or they're more written for like an eighth grader. You know,
a lot of pictures in them and not a lot of words. But one of the things he talked about was Nabadias
and that he was the first archaeologist. And he was going back, looking up the old Cuneiform texts
that they had. He was rediscovering their history. He was very proud that his history there in Babylon
was ancient. So he wanted to get all these old texts. A lot of them were up in the support
and have them translated. Now, it's not easy. Some of them were in Sumerian. Some's in Akkadian.
Plus, the handwriting was bad. They had, he had classes just to teach people on ancient handwriting.
And there weren't a lot of people who knew Sumerian either. I mean, it was kind of used,
it wasn't used, but just a few who knew it. And the language had changed. We're talking thousands
of years have gone by. I mean, it's going to be like translating Chaucer from then to modern English
from a text that's written in bad handwriting. All right. I mean, that's essentially what they're
doing. But they're getting all this stuff together. A few interesting things about Nabadias is he
wasn't part of the Chadian dynasty. He came in from, he was in Assyrian. His mother worked in the
temple of sin from Herod. That's where he was from, Abraham city, where he went. He went from
Herod to Herod. And that's where his mother was a temple in the God of sin. And his dad worked as a
governor. All right. So the other peculiar thing is he liked the God's sin. That was going to be their
main God. Now, sin was the main God under Saragant. And all the way up to Hammur Marabi told by 1800 BC,
sin was the leading God of Babylon. And then Hammur Marabi says, no, I like this Marduk guy better.
All right. So then it was Marduk, Marduk, Marduk, Marduk, Marduk, Marduk. And then you had this one
little window where we had sin and then it goes back to Marduk, Marduk, Marduk, Marduk, Marduk.
So that's where the Jews, that's the Jews, the Greeks got their main God.
Talk about the planets for a second. Let's back. Now, wait a minute. Before you do that, that sounds
like a parallel to what happened with Akhenaten in Egypt, where, you know, you had
polytheism, polytheism, polytheism, a little bit of monotheism under Akhenaten, one sun god,
and then, hey, oh, it's back to polytheism again under Ramses. I wonder why that happens.
Well, they were actually, Babylon moved toward monotheism after this.
All the gods were associated with Marduk. Sin was a certain type of Marduk who was this and
Shema was a certain Marduk who was this. Nabadius, his name actually means Naboo is great or Naboo
be praised. Naboo was the God of script, God of writing. He was the Mercury, so they got,
Hermes came from him. Toth was later made into Mercury after he was the sun and the moon god
from the influence because Toth was into the, he was created by the word. He was self-created by
the word. He was the Logos and that's where the Logos came in with Hermes and was picked up with
Nazism and this was Naboo. He was the God of the script and this is what Nabadius was doing with
he was reviving the scripts. So he was making these scripts up. He was reinstating the God's sin
and one of the characters that they found that he really liked was Nadun Sin,
who was the grandson of Sargon and I didn't know that until I read it on Wikipedia but
it was like, oh wait, so all these things I was wrestling with when I decided this was not written,
my book was not written in this time, okay, that it was not written in the Bronze Age,
I don't think I thought it was and the reason why I thought it was written in the Bronze Age
because they worked with the god Yahweh was based on sin and it had a lot to do and Nadun Sin
was very much like the character David or at least the astrological part of David and he's
takes up like three major zodiac constellations, he's Capricorn, he's Sagittarius and Uriah comes in
Scorpio, he's a major player. It's like and now I'm discovering that during this time when you're
having this big influence on the writer of the Bible, Nadun Sin comes in and he's a rock star
and they're trying to date when he lived there, I mean he was off about 1500 years but heck you
know they're having a heck of a time bringing up all their old gods and their old ancient history
and that is why the Bible was based on this Bronze Age history of Babylon is because this
was the period of influence so you had all these so anachronisms involved in this that I kept
throwing them out it's like oh well oh this guy's trusted iron oh no can't have iron nope this is
the Bronze Age so when I started to edit what I thought was the original text I was taking up
all this stuff that had to do with the Iron Age because I thought it was written in the Bronze
Age not realizing it was actually in there. I got one of Israel Finkelstein. Israel Finkelstein
writes quite a bit and one of the things he was talking about was that Goliath was his armor was
probably based on a Greek mercenary that was fought from Egypt to fought against the Assyrians
and he points out a lot of the anachronisms in the text I mean we have classic one is Abraham
from Urachadies but he comes up with some really oddball ones like they cook their food in a pot
and it's like okay but like okay in this age they didn't cook food in a metal pot
food in a metal pot all right this thing happened to later and he also identifies in
Ezra, Nehemiah and Chronicles cities that didn't really exist during that age
to the villages settlement and these are cities that are huge with walls around them
and these walls were not built until the Hasmonean period and he also identifies language
in those texts that are Hasmonean period
you
