So Dr. Miller, we've talked about M. David Littler's work. He does some good work. And there's
some things you disagree with, of course, like any good scholar is going to disagree with
colleagues that are on the right track. I mean, it's kind of like that idea that
closest people to you are the ones you pick out, you know, you pick bones with the most, right?
Right. But you there's some issues you took with the kind of genre discussion. This isn't
just a little video of responding to his work. It's really a broader issue, because I think
you're more on the same side than not. And you have some categories you want to kind of spell
out how we would look at the kind of heuristic world of literature to try and understand what
the Gospels are. We kind of touched on biography. We kind of touched on mythology. We kind of like
did all these things. What is what is the Gospels? And you're going to kind of paint some categories
that we understand examples or ideas of how they would have wrote and why we wouldn't put the Gospels
in biography, like just full-fledged. But I'd rather you put your own words to this wherever you
want to take it. Yeah, I think what we got, what we have surviving are instructions on how to
write history, various instructions. And so the Grammarian of Grammarians, this guy was writing
a grammar to instruct other people to write grammars. And Sextus Empiricus, he's writing
about how to write a history in the ancient world. And he says that a history can include
three different categories of content. It could include Historia, that's history proper. These
are accounts that are mundane historical chronicles of events that are intended to be received as
bona fide records of what happened in the past of some remote acquaintance to present.
Kind of like Josephus, would that be an example? Yeah, he includes a lot of his content as along
those lines. Now, I would argue that he actually transgresses some of these rules at points,
and he is actually the only exception to my knowledge that really stands out in that way.
But even there, it's very minor relative to what is alleged regarding the Gospels.
Okay. And then there's Plasmata, that's accounts that are presented as though real,
but are not real, like say you're quoting, you're a historian in the ancient world,
and you're quoting like a portion of a play, say, Fermiuripides or something like that.
Seems real, there's actual characters there and play settings and all of that,
but it's not real. And that's also permissible, as long as it's flagged in the text, hey, I'm
quoting Fermiuripides, whatever the play does. Okay. So that's another category.
And then the third category is Muthoi. And so that also is permissible in a history,
as long as those modal signals are present. And so a myth, a Muthos is a story that is presented
as clearly a violation of the natural order. It's something, it's a tall tale that goes beyond
it stretches credulity. Okay. And there's no real work given to try and reign that in,
or to try and make it a paradox, like we talked about before, that it needs to be
a scientific discrepancy or something in the natural order, needs to be a puzzle to be solved.
No, a myth is to be received as myth, and not as something else. Okay.
And just getting into the detail there for our audience who's with me on this journey,
when you say there's signals, what do you mean by they should give signals in order for us to know?
Because you're talking about histories can include, but this is that's that confusing part
about the Gospels. And I don't want to ramble, but it's like, I've never seen the Gospels go,
and by the way, this is not, you know, they're not giving any evidence that you need to be
cautious about this thing or that thing. They're just writing stuff that you're supposed to just
take in. Right. No, the Gospels provide none of the hallmarks of history, that would be a
well disclosed, authorial persona expressing reason and caution over competing accounts.
We would expect that's that's what you expect to see in in standard history works in classical
integrity. We see none of that work going on in the New Testament at all. They would have,
they would say, Luke, right? Oh, there's, there's other accounts, right? They would say that.
And you would contest that even being originally there. But even if we granted it,
that is that part you're like 11 versus any of Angel slang. Like what is going on?
What is your honest opinion? This is your opinion. Do you think he's they're trying to hoodwink
the reader at that point on Luke? Or what is this intent in your opinion?
It's a cultic text. It's meant to be fanciful. It's meant to it's not tethered to reality in the
way that you would think of a mundane archival history. Okay, it's meant to indulge you in this
world of marvels page by page without apology. And that's its consumers, the original readers,
the Gospels would have entered that willfully wanting to indulge in that world, wanting to enter
that space and wanting to really feel what it's like and be immersed in that kind of a world of
marvels and, you know, the Mirabilia and these kinds of accounts would have been what they were
interested in. And it's also a didactic text. So this is a cultic cult performant text meant to
inculcate, you know, Acolytes people converts this kind of thing may have been cult promotional in
that sense in terms of evangelizing with people that may be interested in joining. But they would
have known, okay, this is a cultic group and would have had a certain category for this.
You wouldn't have found this kind of text in the normal archival contexts of ancient history
works. It just wouldn't have circulated in those contexts. Sorry, I took you off the path. I wanted
to emphasize for the viewer who's going, but Luke, but John 21 says I have witnessed these things.
And if the world could contain the things, anyway, that sounds a little exaggerated by itself.
But yeah, well, you know, anything goes into text, you know, and in a Cecil B. DeMille film,
or CGI or a campfire tale or anything like that. And so, yeah, there is an effort to give it kind
of a barest similitude, but its stress is credulity on every page and makes no apology for it doesn't
doesn't go any goes no distance toward authenticating any of these accounts or
private providing any kind of reason skepticism or even showcasing them for for such kind of
thought or a critical investigation. And so that's not what that that's not how these texts were
used at that time. And so you're suggesting and I'm sorry we're doing like a 101 basics for
dummies for me. And I am the example here. But you're suggesting other historiographies and the
practice would be doing those things. They would say who they are, what they're doing,
they're cautious in their approach, especially when it sounds what we would call fantastic.
Like they would, a good actual history would be saying this.
Yeah. Now, now there's people like Lucian that complained that this historian or that historian
might have leapt something crept in without. And that was considered a foul. That wasn't
considered normalcy. That was considered inappropriate and to be rejected as quality history.
Wow. And so now Litwa might say or someone like him, I can't put words in his mouth that these
weren't quality histories. These were history like, okay, you know, I can't go there quite
because I don't think that that's how these texts were processed or handled by early Christians.
That's just not what was going on with them. Okay. So you do get that little bit of that little bit
of text at the beginning of Luke and everyone hangs their entire faith hat on top of that one
little and in my view, now you kind of wonder with these guys if they've not speaking Litwa,
but the more zealot, you know, fringe in the discourse, have they gone and actually read
the intros to the classic history works? You know, Dionysius of Hala Canassus, have they read his
Roman history? You know, have they read Herodotus? Have they read, you know, each one of these has
a little poem at the beginning where they try to spell out and it's a place where you would have
the author clearly disclosed typically, you would have their strategy in terms of what they're
endeavoring to do. You would have a fairly lengthy, you know, description of their pedigree or quality
for doing such a work. It would be a well-disclosed kind of project right up front from the get-go
and usually is, you know, very modest in terms of trying to present, okay, this is a human project
that's aimed at, you know, historical truth. Okay, now getting, now those are usually
chapter, a chapter or two long, we're talking very long, you know, in comparison to Luke's little
two or three sentences. And we don't find the two or three sentence intros in ancient history works.
And beyond that, what's puzzling is that this is later in the gospel tradition, so he tags that on
at the beginning. Well, how could it's farcical to think that that should be a descriptor for the
entire gospel tradition. Any more than if you go to John's gospel, where he's presenting it in a
Platonic form, he's talking about the Logos who does this and that, should we then therefore, and by
the way, that philosophical idea does not carry through the rest of John, you don't find that
unpacked for a whole lot at all really. And so, should we then take all of the gospel tradition
and shoehorn it into philosophy and see these as philosophical track dates? Right. You know,
that's farcical, we would not accept that, nor should we accept this kind of obsession with
trying to, you know, literalize the Gospels in this kind of radical way that seems to be a trend
nowadays. So many good things, so many good things. So we were diving in, I derail you from
how histories could employ myth or could employ certain things, but they gave signals,
and then I took you off into La La Land. So do you know where we're at?
Yeah, yeah, yeah. So that's an interesting study all in its own right. And I enjoyed writing this
review. It was, to me, almost a heuristic exercise. I hope Lytnua is not too upset with me. But my idea
there was to take and say, let's look at this a little closer. You know, what's going on there?
And so when you see, and I'm not the first, Henry Thackeray, the guy that did the translations for
Josephus work a century ago, also pointed this out, and there's others, many others, that you'll
see little signals in the text here and there that show the modal integrity of the author
when they're switching gears between Historia, Plasmata, and Muthoi, right? And so those signals
need to be clearly registered in the text, according to Sextus Empiricus, and even Cicero,
who wrote a couple centuries earlier, and had the same three categories in terms of
the qualification for history work. And so basically, the idea is to clearly show that
the author is cognizant of what they're giving you at that point and letting, kind of tipping you off
when you get to Herodotus, which is six full centuries prior to the composition of the Gospels.
And so it's nigh irrelevant to any discussion about this, but we'll start there since he's
the father of history and the classical recoil. So his predecessors were logographers, and they
were kind of mixing poetry with legend and talking about history that way. We're going back into,
you know, near Greek Dark Ages period. So no prior history work.
So almost another way of putting it is their methodology did not develop at the time where
they wanted to categorize and give the reader clear signals, hey, legend, myth, history. They
kind of blended things 600 years or more before the New Testament authors.
It's not. I think what we're saying is even stronger still. The Herodotus, despite being in
that context, where something like that could have been permissible, still provided those cues
throughout his text, he would say, and they say that, you know, legacy. And so he would have that
as a little flag in his text whenever he was going to do a, you know, give you a yarn or some sort of
tale or some belief that was available at the time. He's trying to inform people about the culture,
about the popular beliefs, et cetera. That's history work. He's showcasing that in his history in
order to educate people about what people were thinking with, you know, this kind of thing.
And he's giving that modal signal there so that the reader can kind of intuit, yeah, okay,
I know what I'm getting here. This is a tall tale or a yarn or whatever in its part. He was
criticized for that later. Herodotus was, despite having been vindicated now on many fronts in
terms of the quality of his history, he's meticulous and scrupulous about so many matters that were
previously regarded as maybe fast and loose. And so he's been vindicated on many levels in
recent scholarship. But at the same time, though, we need to see Herodotus is careful not to stretch
the credulity of his readers for the most part. I mean, he does talk about people in the far off
east that have, I don't know, two heads or something like that. Again, though, he's presenting that
as kind of a curious tale from the far off. He's not trying to give that to you as like, hey, you've
got to believe this as literal reality, more just these are the tales that are coming from the east.
And he even admits that one of his passages, let me see if I could find it here. He says,
this is from book one, he says, and these are the stories of the Persians and the Phoenicians.
For my part, I shall not say that this or that story is true, but I shall identify the one who I
myself know did the Greeks, injustice and injustice, excuse me, and thus proceed with my history.
And so he's even putting up front, hey, not everything I'm going to tell you right now is the
absolute fact, but I do want to at least paint the picture from a cultural standpoint, what we're
getting from them, what they say that they say that. And so he peppers his work with that. We
find that same policy in Josephus in many places. We find it all across the Herodotiaean histories
all the way down. Now Thucydides, who had a more mundane approach to history, excluded a lot of
this. He didn't like to include all of the myth and all of that in there. Now he does occasionally,
but he's far more tame in that he's less interested in that, more wanting the dry mundane,
just the facts. He doesn't want to include all of these cultural details and peculiarities.
And there's a whole lineage of historians that follow in his tradition as well.
So those are the two primary archetypes in the historiographical tradition coming down,
and almost all histories find their way under one or the other of those two towering figures.
So technically that would cause you with all your research to kind of force
one of two options technically. And the option is this is some exception, which we would need
really good reasons to overcome that and suggest these gospels are the exception.
And I want to defend you for a moment while I'm saying that. If they are the exception,
what's up with all the other gospels? Are they also pawning off wannabe histories? Are we supposed
to believe those are as well? I mean, what makes you draw the line in the sand suggesting these
four are somehow pond off wannabe histories, but the plethora of acts and gospels that are out there
aren't. And like it's unanimous, even the most conservative Christian will go, yeah,
that's fake. That's not real history. I mean, maybe they're not using good methodology to draw
that kind of conclusion, but even they're at least on the side of going on, and I don't accept it
because it's not my canon. You need more evidence to overwhelmingly kind of say this is an exception
in a radically different thing versus fitting into a category of saying, here's what we know history
looks like, even if it had sprinkled in, they give you cues, they give you signs. The gospels,
the way I read them is like at the outside, they're not here to, they're not there. They want you to
believe this. They are here to convince you that this is the story in which you're swallowing.
They're not trying to make you have any skeptical tools as you approach them, it seems. If anything,
they're trying to overcome any type of, they're agenda driven, propagandistic in my view.
Yeah. Yeah. I mean, they're, they're cult performant. These were clearly the kinds of texts that you
would read within that community for converts and the sort of thing. And so they're not making those
kind of appeals or trying to present something for that kind of reason, caution, you know, that,
that sort of skeptical approach or something like that's just not the, they don't get, they don't
have anything to offer that kind of person. And so, you know, the conspicuous absence of all of that
throughout the text, there's no effort to authenticate any of these particular tales. Like for instance,
in Luke, you get this, this funny little costume jewelry, you know, prologue there that may have
been tacked on even after the fact as a creation in the second century, as far as we can tell.
And then 11, verse 11, you've got angels flying around with, without the slightest,
you know, concern over the impossibility of that or any kind of skeptical reader problems or
anything like that. There's no, there's no particular eyewitnesses that are brought to bear
on it. There's no competing accounts. There's no concern over the impossibility of any of that.
And the, the, the narrative just keeps going full speed, you know, right into even more.
And so, you know, for us to try and project across the entire text, this idea that these are impeccable,
there's no historian in the ancient world that would find that a compelling,
you know, argument at the beginning that, oh, by the way, all of my sources are impeccable,
you know, now let's get started, you know, that would be an angel flying.
Yeah, no historian would find that compelling. It would, you know, it would make its way into
the waste can if they were trying to read it that way. And so you brought up Eusebius as a,
as the first real church historian who said, all right, we haven't had anyone before try to write
a history. But bro, you got four histories right here, don't you? And you got five, you count acts
like what's up with this, but same authors to technically pour. Yeah. He doesn't really say
there's a history that's ever been written about Christianity the earliest. And so he's taking on
fourth century, first time trying to write a history. Yeah. And admitting that he's, he's got
a dubious project because he has no reliable sources. That's a big deal. Even pray, you send
me this just for the audience. I'll try to put it up on the screen if I can. You send it and he
almost prays. Like he's like, well, he does, he says in the text, like, may God, almost like,
like, may God be with us almost like those movies when like, the Russians are coming in,
it's red dawn and you know, we're like doomed. And he's like, right, may God be with us.
He knows he's screwed. Yeah. Yeah. He's like, I hope that God will guide us to help us because
this doesn't look good. Right. And even after he starts with this, this prologue, which was,
again, a program like what probably we should have seen in Luke, but we didn't get, you know,
he's trying to do some history work here. He's got the rigor of real people do it. You know,
he's got a research team there at presumably helping him draw documents. He was trying to pull
from the entire inventory of known Christian writing at that time in order to piece together
stuff. And he admits right up front that this is going to, this is an doubtful project that I'm
endeavoring. And, and basically he launches into a bunch of theological stuff right after that that
again is untethered to history. It's just him theologizing, but then he's tries to start piecing
together, you know, early church figures, saints, so forth, and, and, you know, a little bit in the
gospel. But he's got a very similar project to what modern New Testament scholars have in terms of,
well, his description is that he says he felt like that his, his, his project felt like they were
plucking a flower from here and a little leaf from there. And in this sort of thing, in order to
piece together what he calls a historical graph, a historiographical body, you know,
you know, something that, a whole piece that can come together and say something.
And he's, and he's complaining that that was necessary, that he had to try and find just some
little trace of something that was worth, you know, possibly giving any information about that. He
said he could not find even the bare footprints of any predecessor. Now that's, that's a pretty
damning statement. If you're trying to say that the New Testament Gospels were his, his
historiography, you would expect then that tradition to carry forward rather strongly with
those primitive cherished works. You would expect a pageant, a parade of more history works
following in that legacy. And what do we find? We find, you know, apocalyptic literature fantasies.
We find hagiographical folktales. We find martyrological folktales. We find inventive fictions. We
find this, you know, cultic biographies that are highly romantic and highly embellished that
preserve nearly nothing that's of historical value. So another way of putting it is if you find 90,
let's pretend we found 100 texts, four of them are kind of canon, put them aside, and you notice
all of them are fictional. I mean, they're like fictionalized stuff. Is there verisimilitude? Sure,
we'll get into that in just a second. I want to hear you take, but yeah, it's like four over here,
and all the rest are in the business of creating cultic literature. Right. I'm just going to put
that as a broad category for me to say, if it's, you know, some type of embellished, fictionalized
type narrative for communities to follow in suit, and we see it from Jesus' turning clay doves into
birds, living birds, and killing a kid for, you know, like various wild tales, then we get to
these four and we're supposed to work backwards to go, ah, you know, there's some line that drew in
the sand where they stopped writing histories and biographies of what really is the case,
and now we're actually dealing with fantasy. Right. You're suggesting almost like, why would
they change the mode? They've been working this way since the get, and you're the one put in this
in a different category. This is also in that category. Yeah, it's a theological move, right?
And so even the title of the book, you know, how the Gospels became history, it's not dealing with
the Gospels as an actual set of records, it's dealing with a tiny subset, the canonized, the
sacralized Gospels that we sacralized today. Now, all those other ones were sacralized too,
and people were dying for all of them as well. And so for us to presume that there's something
special going on there, now if you go forward, now this is Irenaeus centuries later, that's trying
to, trying to organize, this is when you've got the stamp, the hammer of the Roman government starting
and politics and religion starting to come together and fuse in some ways, and you've got
orthodoxy and power going on there, and they're using these texts and outlawing certain ones.
And so it went from being this cacophony really, or this kind of free spirited
initial movement to produce a very prolific number of texts that clearly had no effort,
exhibit no effort at trying to reconcile them to any particular single story or to try and
create any kind of historical chronicle that could be, you know, that could register as quality in
that world. But then you get up to the point of Irenaeus and he's saying, well, these texts are
important and these ones aren't. And he really doesn't make a case for, oh, and by the way, these
are pure histories, he never calls them histories, you know, he's just saying these are the ones that
we're going to give credence to and the other ones are, you know, basically of the devil or whatever,
they're banned, heretical, etc, etc. And so he's trying to use these texts in order to reconcile
the community under one orthodox trajectory. Today, you've got the same problem though,
you've got people that are, where do we enter our study of this? Do we enter the study of this in
libraries where we're looking at this full array, the messy history of early Christian texts,
or do we enter it in a pew in some church with our Bible in front of us
and taught that these texts are from God himself and therefore are categorically different
and sequestered off from anything the early Christians had otherwise written.
And that's a theological move that has nothing to do with any of the work I'm doing,
that's a theological decision. And so we're projecting back and overlaying these orthodox
decisions later. Now, is Irenaeus infallible? Like, what's the infallible thing here? Because
he's the one deciding what the texts are. So is he God? So where is the authority at? I know in
Protestant religion, the authority is in the Bible, right? And so, but if you go over to,
like, say the Catholicism, they'll say the authority, I think, more resides in the church itself.
That makes a little bit more sense of that if you're going to give that credence. But that's
one trajectory of the church. There are many trajectories in the ancient world and they
did not agree. And to take the one that happened to rise to political power because its trajectory
headed straight to Rome and let that have hegemony over what and in our description of what early
Christianity was and what their texts were, that's crazy. So just to end on this note to point out
for one highlight is with all these non-canonical materials that are fictional, that are cultic,
their followers, legitimately their followers died, martyred deaths on behalf of that cultic
practice with that literature at the forefront. So I want to emphasize to the apologetics that are
in the world, like, but they died, they were willing to die or they would be, they would be
willing to die for the beliefs. In Elaine Pagels, the Gnostic Gospels, very, I think, 1970s or
something, she published this thing way back when and it was like, really, New York Times bestseller,
she also emphasizes the Gnostics were willing to die. And they, what we categorized as Gnostics,
and we don't like the category so much anymore, but it still fits my point,
non-Orthodox Christians, with their radical fictional cultic tales,
died and were martyrs for their cultic fictional literature. So if they're willing to go to their
deaths for their philosophy, and I want to call it a philosophy because this is an important point
you brought up in the car earlier, was they didn't die for Jesus, they died like Jesus.
Yes. That is so powerful. Very important point. Yeah. And it even goes all the way back to the
Gospel tradition, even to, you know, what, what, how did, what did John the Baptist die for?
He died calling out Herod, right? Truth to power and got beheaded for it, right? What was, you know,
so if you look at Luke acts, you end up with a martyrological kind of compendium there from
beginning to end with Jesus merely figuring prominently. There's no death for sins in Luke acts.
When Peter stands up on Pentecost and says, you know, he just died, he didn't say,
he just died for your sins. Everybody get, come forward to the altar, you know, he's saying,
you killed him, you assholes, basically. And just like you do all the prophets,
who came before, and, and he's calling the mountain shaming them for it.
Would you say just one highlight on this, this special little nugget here. Do you think the whole,
we've come up with these modes, especially Protestants really love it. So this kind of
atonement, it's that atonement. Do you think Matthew, because it was such a favorite gospel in the
early church, and it's trying to be the written scripture, it is written, Jesus fits, it's kind
of like lamb going to the slaughter. You have like Jesus Barabbas, Jesus, the good guy. It almost
looks like it's a reenactment of what would have happened when you're going to slaughter sacrifice
in the Hebrew scriptures. Do you think because that that narrative kind of took off and was very
flowering in the early church, that they had kind of concocted this atonement idea, ignoring the
martyrological kind of approach of Mark and Luke and went with the sacrificial concept?
Well, if you go back to four Maccabees, which is an expansion of a couple of chapters in two
Maccabees, basically you've got the nine martyrs there in front of Antiochus Epiphanes, the tyrant.
And it says in that text that they're dying for their philosophical escapism, basically,
to demonstrate their philosophical sophistication. But also it says, interesting, as a trope in there,
it says, and they died for the sins of the nation, et cetera. And the blood of their atonement was
shed for us, et cetera, et cetera. And so you could see there a tradition already existing and
well established within Judaism and within the people that might have read these texts. And so
that's going on. And it is martyrological language in that sense. And also you got to see,
if you see Matthew as post-70, post-temple demolition, post-temple cult, then Christianity
starts to become an answer to that problem in some ways. We can't sacrifice animals anymore,
et cetera, et cetera. And it really ends up doing that throughout the empire. As Christianity
took its hold in the other cities throughout the empire, their cults also shut down. We don't need
to sacrifice animals. Jesus already did it for us. They're not trying to create another
temple like the one in Jerusalem and all the cities or something like that.
Sorry, I threw that curve all. Got off topic of the genre of Gospels. But stay tuned,
we're going to get into the martyrological stuff. We're going to get into verisimilitude next,
I hope. And thank you for being a patron. I hope you liked my dad Richard Miller in this interview.
Remember to like and subscribe. And never forget, we are Miss Vicki.
