Please consider becoming a patron of MythVision Podcasts, you'll get early access to every
video including this amazing one, and you can ask me personal questions, private message
me anything you'd like.
Professor John J. Collins, I've got a good friend who's anonymous, I cannot say his name.
If I do, the whole world will, no I'm just kidding, he's got a list of questions, so
I guess I'll just, I'll go through them, we'll just chip at them.
Do DNA studies show no difference between Jews and surrounding Middle Eastern peoples?
And inside, it was DNA that disproved the Book of Mormon's claim, the American Indians
were descended from the Middle East.
I don't know anything about the DNA evidence.
You either, and I think he's referring to you and Dr. Baden, but believe the exodus
occurred as described in the Old Testament, if not what probably did happen, which we
kind of talked with this?
Well, yeah, you know, I'm sure there were Hebrew slaves who escaped from Egypt from
time to time.
No, I don't think you got one big one that certainly was no record of a Pharaoh chasing
after them in a Pharaoh getting drowned in the process of trying to catch runaway slaves.
No self-respecting Pharaoh would go after runaway slaves.
So there may well be a nucleus, one handles kind of cultural memory, could fit in nicely
to that, but it does not seem to have accounted for a big part of the makeup.
I think myself that something that contributes to the importance of the exodus story is that
Jeroboan, who is supposedly the founder of the Northern Kingdom, had fled from Solomon
and been a slave and been in Egypt.
And then when Solomon died, he came back from Egypt.
And I think he may have promoted the story of the exodus.
Interesting.
There's something there probably.
Wow.
And who knows how long, I mean, these peoples have been in and out of Egypt for, there's
no telling how big this legend, yeah, okay.
What does current scholarship think about the theory first proposed by Albrecht Ault
that the settlement of Palestine by Jewish ancestors was a gradual process by Highlanders
gradually displacing Canaanites living on the lowlands closer to the Mediterranean?
Well, you know, when I was a student, there were two rival theories, that John Bright
in his history of Israel more or less went with the biblical account.
The conquest happened.
And Ault and Martin Note had the edu note whose gradual infiltration.
Now the balance of the argument has favored Ault and Note, with the difference that I
think Ault would still have thought that they came in from Mesopotamia or from the east.
And nowadays, the archaeologists think, no, they were Canaanites, that they were just
a group within Canaan who withdrew from the lowlands and developed their own identity
up in the hills.
Like Britons, who came to America, did their own thing.
And settled in Appalachia.
Okay, how does current scholarship respond to the theory advanced by Martin Knoth that
the books from Judges through Kings were composed by one author?
I think Note was right.
This is no guarantee that everybody realizes this.
I think Joel would probably agree with me on that.
I think that was a very good hypothesis.
Now when you say composed, we don't mean composed from scratch.
But that there is clear sign of editing that ties these books together.
Interesting.
Was Deuteronomy the scroll found in the temple during the reign of Josiah, as mentioned in
Second Kings and Second Chronicles?
Some scholars have advanced this hypothesis.
Well, yes, the story in Second Kings implies that the book of the law of the Lord was found
and implies that it was Deuteronomy.
That doesn't mean it was Deuteronomy in the form that we have it.
But at least the law of centralization seems to have been a crucial part in it.
So I would think that just there's a nucleus of Deuteronomy that went back.
Now, whether it was found in the temple, that's another question.
This whole thing could be fiction.
But I think it does go back to the time of Josiah.
How do scholars know Isaiah was composed of three segments, chapters one through 39,
and correct if this is not correctly, chapters one through 39, 40 to 55 and 56 to 66.
Putting it simply, not everything in 1 to 39 was composed by one author.
There is a block of material in chapters 7 to 9, say, that is very clearly set at the
time of an Assyrian crisis.
Talks about the Northern Kingdom threatening to invade Jerusalem to form an alliance to
resist the Assyrians.
And there are some other passages later in the book that also relate to that.
So some of it goes back to around 700.
Now, in 40 to 55, the context is very clear.
Even mentioned Cyrus of Persia by name, couldn't be clearer than that.
56 to 66, not everyone would agree that that's separate, but it seems to presuppose a situation
when the exiles have come back to Jerusalem.
Disillusionment has set in to some degree, whereas in 40 to 55, it's all very enthusiastic
and you're being restored, everything is great.
And then by 56 to 66, there's a lot of internal division.
And so that's why many people think it's later, perhaps disciples of second Isaiah,
if it's the same person, it's later.
Thank you.
Why do mainstream scholars believe Ruth, Esther, and Jonah are examples of Jewish fiction?
Well, they read like fiction.
They read like novels.
And now, in the case of Jonah, of course, now we all have to reconsider, now that we've
heard of a man actually being swallowed by a whale and then sped up.
Yeah, because that's true, you know.
But I think, you know, because, well, there's all sorts of stuff in Jonah that gives you
pretty broad hints that this is a fiction.
In that fiction, it does carry some theological value, I think, and what I mean by that is,
in that whole discussion about the perception of the nations, this seems late in the game,
because I don't know, when would you date it?
It sounds like he's being told, go to not just any nation, like the nation that destroyed
Israel, and God's concern about them, according to this author.
Well, you know, it's a great book, and it's a funny book, and it's meant to be funny.
But it's like the story of Adam and Eve, you know, if you find a talking snake in a story,
come on, who's going to believe that?
If this weren't in the Bible, nobody would take it literally, and the same with Jonah.
And that's just a genre mistake, you know, that there are clear signals, don't take this
literally.
Yeah.
Now, you know, Esther, well, I mean, again, there's a lot of obvious hyperbole, I think,
in Esther.
The idea that the Persian king gives the Jews permission to kill any other enemies that
they want for a period of time, it's a very plausible, you know, the whole thing is told
with a certain gusto, but you know, that there could be a historical core to that.
In the case of Ruth, you see, this is what you might call a private story.
You're not going to get any record that will confirm or contradict the story of Ruth.
It's a story about a private individual.
Now, normally, those things are novellas, novels, short stories, fictions.
Interesting.
Thank you.
But you know, it doesn't make any difference if it's actually happened.
Right.
And there's a lot of times politics are what we see happening often in all of this material.
It's rare to find politics not play a role.
Huh.
It's interesting.
Cyrus the Great being the Messiah.
Does this play any significance in this whole Esther thing, in this Esther?
No.
Not in Esther.
One last comment on this, I'd like to say, is that I read Adiophir Ishai Rosenzvi book,
Goi, on the Israel's Others.
And when we talk about Ezra, the way that he is towards others, and he's like, you know,
it's clear that they're not to mingle and mix seed with these foreign strange wives.
There's a list of the nations you're not supposed to.
And so we would call that xenophobia or xenophobic or some type of don't mix, don't marry.
However, they said something interesting in the book.
They said, it's not everyone.
It's only these listed people, whereas the people that conquer them, that they're actually
living in their land and stuff, they're not naming like, don't marry these people.
There's only certain people that they're saying not to mingle with.
So it's like a political slain of saying like, you and me, we're not to, let's not
marry Indians or let's not marry this.
But you know, English people and these other people, we're cool with these guys, so we
can marry them.
Yeah.
And you know, by and large, you don't want interaction with the proximate neighbor.
Somebody who comes from, you know, the other side of the moon, fine.
But it's the immediate neighbor you want to get away from.
And that's so true sociologically in every group, all the Jews that argue amongst themselves
about their interpretations, all the Christians, stay away from them, but they are cool with
all this other, anything that's not too close.
Too close for comfort.
Yeah.
Thank you.
