The Bible with and without Jesus. How Jews and Christians read the same stories differently.
This book is a wonderful book that we take a deep dive into today. I was actually shocked by some
of the information that was brought up by Dr. Amy Jo Levine in this book, but also on this episode.
You know, and I only scratched the surface on how deep things really get between how Jews
interpreted and understood their scriptures and how Christians reading the same scriptures and
sometimes different came to different conclusions. How a whole new religion comes from interpretation.
The changes in language and other deep topics are covered today. I really hope you enjoy this.
To add icing on the cake, Dr. Amy Jo Levine is a Rabbi Stanley M. Kessler Distinguished
Professor of New Testament and Jewish Studies at Hartford International University for Religion
and Peace. She also is the University Professor of New Testament and Jewish Studies, Emerita.
Mary Jane Worthen, Professor of Jewish Studies, Emerita. Professor of New Testament Studies,
Emerita Vanderbilt University.
We are MythVision. Welcome back to MythVision Podcast. I'm the host, Derek Lambert. I'm
excited about today's show. Endlessly reading. Dr., may I call it AJ Levine or what do you want
me to call you today? AJ. AJ, awesome. Well, just so everybody knows, her name is Amy Jo Levine,
and she's a professor. Let me just put it this way. High caliber expert. I'm telling you,
anyone who knows this, you're probably going to root for her down in the chat. But also,
if you don't know, pay attention to the show today and take the time to get some of the books.
Go to the link down in the description right now. Before you even watch this episode,
get you a copy of one of her works. The one we're talking about today is the Bible
with and without Jesus. And you're going to understand more as we go as to what that even
means, what this book is about. It is a fascinating book to teach you how did the Jews understand it?
How do Christians understand it? What are the differences? Maybe you even get an answer of
why they thought differently, and it hopefully will bridge interfaith dialogue amongst the groups
that are out there from Judaism to Christianity. Maybe we can bridge that gap somewhat and people
could better understand the world that we live in and these type of ideas. But she has countless
books. I don't think I could go through them all in the lifetime. Maybe I could. Maybe if that's
all I did was focus on her literature. But it's on Amazon. The link's down in the description.
She also has many of these books in audio format on Audible. For people like me who drive all the
time, please go and listen to her works. The one that we're doing right now, the Bible with
or without Jesus or with and without and rather than an or. That's a good point too,
because we're going to get into this detail, but it is well read. The author who's reading this is
doing a fantastic job, so I can't recommend it enough. And with that being said, welcome to
Mithfishing. Did I miss anything with my horrible fickle human intro here trying my best to introduce
you to my audience? No, I'm just a Jew who knows a whole lot about Jesus and gets really annoyed
when Jews bear false witness against Christians and Christians bear false witness against Jews
and people ignore history. Wow. Yeah. Wow. Yeah, you definitely know quite a bit and some of the
topics that I figured we'd bring up would be in the vein of the book that you recently had me read
so that we could tell people about this a little more. Why did you write this book? What motivated
you to write this specific book? Well, the book is co-authored with Marks V. Brittler, who teaches
Hebrew Bible at Duke University. Mark and I are the co-editors of something called the Jewish
Annotated New Testament, which came out first in 2011 and then again in 2017. And God knows,
they want to do a third edition. It's like three years out of my life each time. So what the Jewish
Annotated did is it gathered a group of Jews, it's kind of like herding cats, about 70 of us,
I guess, when we were finally done, to provide notes to all the books of the New Testament and then
lots and lots of user-friendly back essays like who were the Pharisees and what was the temple like
and how did purity law function and what did Jews think about sex and stuff like that.
So that when people read the New Testament, whether for historical reasons or personal reasons or
because they want to preach this stuff, they would get Judaism right rather than get Judaism wrong.
It seems to me that if you have to make Jesus look good by making Judaism look wrong,
something has gone very, very wrong right there, right? So Judaism doesn't have to look bad in
order for Jesus to be good. Let's set him in his own context. So we get done with this thing. And
then we realize there's so much more that we had to say. For me personally, I get lots of emails,
although now I've got books so I can say go read this book. Here, Professor Levine, if you had just
read the Old Testament, which I think is an okay term for Christians to use, if you had just read
the Old Testament, you would see that it points to Jesus. It points to Jesus on every page. And
then I would write back because I'm very good. I try to be nice to people who write to me to say,
well, you know, the Jewish community looks at Adam and Eve differently. It looks at Isaiah 53,
the suffering servant differently and so on. So Mark and I thought, why don't we just write a book
so that when people say to us, if you just read the Old Testament, you would see, we could say,
well, if you read the Old Testament with Christian lenses, you can see Jesus on every page. But if
you take those Christian lenses off and you put on rabbinic lenses or non-Messianic Jewish lenses,
you see a bunch of other stuff. And it's the matter of the perspective that we have and more than that.
If you look at the text in its own historical context, well, it's not like it's Weir's Waldo
when you can see, oh, Jesus of Nazareth gets mentioned here, am I saying. So what did these
texts mean to the people who first heard them? Because generally, if you tell somebody, you know,
a virgin will conceive, that's the Greek, not the Hebrew, a virgin will conceive and bear a child.
And you say, 700 years from now, it's going to be all good. Most people don't care, right? If you
tell me 700 years from now, we'll get the ecological crisis settled. I'm not even sure we're going to
be here 700 years from now, but I really like something done now. So that's the historical
question. What did these texts mean in context? That's a long answer for why did we write this
book? Yeah, it makes perfect sense, especially when you repeat yourself. And it's like,
why not publish something, source it, have great, you know, like go in depth so people understand
the reasoning. And you say that in the opening, you're like, look, I want both sides to respectfully
disagree and say, okay, look, I get it. At least I get why. Because it sounds to me you've had a
lot of Christians kind of like not get it. They're like, I don't understand why a Jew can't see Jesus.
And then when the Jews are trying to explain this, they're having to kind of unpack so
much material. It's kind of repetitive, I'm sure it gets annoying. And so you kind of have to go,
okay, at least understand, even if you don't accept it, at least know why we say this.
But the problem's on the other side as well. So that for many Jewish people, when a Christian
says, well, I can see how the creation narrative includes the Trinity, and the Jews are going,
well, no, it doesn't. So there's a learning curve on both sides. And the reason we so stress that
with and without rather than with or without is because we want both readings to be shown in
their own logic. So the Jews misunderstand Christianity and Christians misunderstand
Jews and sometimes we misunderstand each other. And if we had a little bit more understanding,
things would be just a little bit calmer in the world of religion. That's not a bad thing.
Wow. So I want to dive into the book some and get into some of this material that you're doing.
We want to tease the audience to go get the work because it's just that good. And one of the things
you point out is various interpretations. Of course, they had different Bibles, different texts.
There's an issue between even going from the Hebrew to the Greek and how late the Masoretic
is. And are we using Dead Sea Scrolls? It's just a very complicated, you almost need a degree to
really wrap your head around with some sufficient understanding here. But there are various
interpretations of the scriptures. And maybe a question would be like, why do these interpretations
differ? And you put even in this subtitle for this particular chapter or this section of that
chapter is two Jews, three opinions. I thought that was fascinating as well. So tell us a little
bit about it. There are multiple reasons why we read differently. We, being Jews and Christians,
broadly construed. The Jews are reading from the Hebrew. And then we have to worry about the
Masoretic text, which you mentioned. But at the time of Jesus, there are also the Dead Sea Scrolls,
which sometimes differ from the Masoretic text. The early followers of Jesus, when they started
writing stuff down that we have, were using the Greek translation of the Hebrew. And anytime you
translate something, you know, something gets left out that belongs there and something gets
dropped in that doesn't belong there, because all words have connotations. It's an old Italian
proverb that means something like, all translators are traders. And they are. Like Romeo and Juliet
and French is terrific in German. And Yiddish is kind of funny. So we're looking at, when you use
a different translation, you're going to come up with a different reading. You're using the Greek
Isaiah says a virgin will conceive. You're using the Hebrew. It says, look at that pregnant young
lady. There's a sort of difference there. And then we can work out how that works out in reception
history. When we look at the beginning of Genesis, I mean, right at the beginning, do we translate
in the beginning, like ex nihilo? Or do we translate when in the beginning God created,
like there's something there before that God has to work with? Do we see the spirit of God
hovering over the face of the deep Ruach Elohim? Or do we see a mighty wind? Because the Hebrew
Ruach can mean wind, breath, spirit and Elohim, which means God can also function as an adjective.
Like today we use the term like God awful, super awful. Well, Elohim can have that godly but in
a powerful way, like mighty wind. So we're even wrestling right at the beginning of Genesis.
Anytime you translate differently, that's going to cause a kind of a ripple in the stream.
And that ripple becomes bigger and bigger as you get farther and farther downstream.
We read not only different languages. If you go into a synagogue, you hear the Torah chanted.
Well, that makes a difference as opposed to the book being read in that, you know, where are the
breaks? Where's the emotional rise? There's a difference between reading something on a scroll
and reading something in a book. And if that's, my students think that sounds weird, but I say,
to them, when you read something online, which is what they do, like they read on their phone,
is it different to read a text on a phone than it is different to hold a book in your hand?
Or a paperback, something that you can just like splay on, you know, on the coffee table,
or you go into a church with these big pulpit Bibles with the guilt edges that feel different.
And the answer is, yes, it does. We read through rabbinic lenses, if we're Jewish,
we read the text through the New Testament, if we're Christian. And that kind of
constrains interpretations multiple ways. And Christians generally, generally,
read the Old Testament as if the whole thing's pointing to Jesus. Right.
Jews, it doesn't really point anywhere. It just kind of talks to itself. And there's no goal to it.
And we can even see that through the way the books are ordered. So the Old Testament ends
with Malachi, which is a prophet, and it predicts the coming of Elijah. So it's kind of like,
this is all prophecy. And then you can read the New Testament, and John the Baptist drops into
the Elijah role, and Matthew, Mark, and Luke, and you go, Oh, promised fulfillment. Makes sense.
Well, the Jewish canon talks to the prophets in the middle, and the Jewish canon ends with
Second Chronicles, which is the edict of King Cyrus of Persia saying to the Jews in Babylon,
go home. So the analogy that I like to use on this is that Christianity is like football.
So the kickoff is the Garden of Eden. It's kind of negative yardage until you get up to Jesus.
This is break between humanity and divinity, because Adam and Eve screwed up. And the Jesus
story is the 50-yard line. And then you get to the goal, which is the Book of Revelation,
when Jesus comes home. But it's linear. Judaism is baseball. You go into exile, you go home.
So we're basically playing on different fields with different teams, with different rules,
with different uniforms during different seasons. So if we stop trying to fit the Old Testament to
Judaism and the Tanakh into Christianity, but we recognize that these are different texts with
different meanings, then we can begin to have a conversation. Wow. That's a mouthful of...
It's literally making me think of how the development of that difference took place,
which is what the experts like you do is you go in and you start to show where thinking may have
started to shift into football from baseball, if that makes sense. And it's just so interesting to
think about that. But I really hope people will go get the book and take a deep dive, because
one of the things about you, as we move forward, you have Orthodox Jews. And Orthodox Jews,
in my opinion, I comment this critically, will have limitations to some degree. Well,
Moses wrote the first five books. We can't look past that. You are critical. You are scholarly in
this approach. And what I mean is, is there aren't those limitations in terms of being able to explore
these options and what they may actually be insinuating? Because in your book, you talk about
Canaanites, for example. That's a big taboo. You're not supposed to go there in a lot of circles,
but you do. And I have to honor that and respect that. You talk about Genesis. And when you said
that in Genesis, just to make one little praise of what you said there, both groups could learn
something here. Because is this a plethora of Elohim and a counsel of God? And they're in his
enthronement room or something. And what's that say about monotheism in the hard sense, right?
Is this heenotheism? What's going on? So it's a fascinating thing you said, and I've got to commend
you for it. Well, you don't really have to be a Bible scholar to do this. If you just pick up,
and you can do this online, you get two different versions of the same text because you can get
the new international version and the King James version and the new Revised Standard version
and the new American Bible Revised Edition, which is the Catholic Bible, whatever. And you start
comparing translations and you go, oh, we may have a problem here. So even if you can't do the Hebrew
for the quote unquote Hebrew scriptures or the Aramaic that's included, and you can't do the
Greek, you can still do a little bit of this kind of text criticism. It doesn't take a Bible scholar
to say, oh, this text ends with the prophets and this text ends with the writings. Because once
you change the ending, you change the rest of the plot. And we know that from movies, right?
Does this ending work? Oh, let's refilm. The audience doesn't like different endings.
Wow. Yeah, they kind of push you on that path. So the rearrangement of the text is a conscious move.
Getting into prophecy, if I may. Before we move into prophecy, I just want to mention there's two
Jews, three opinions. This idea, even though, you know, we just dealt with how the Christians
view it and how Jews are viewing it and there's differences. There's not even an agreement amongst
Christians, even the early church fathers, they don't agree on everything. Jews don't agree on
everything. They try to agree on fundamentals, of course, but like there's still this like ambiguity.
And while Christians like to interpret through the New Testament, there are some that are more
orthodox that will say, well, we want to know what the father said or what the church says
about the New Testament. So there's still that lens as well. While rabbinic Judaism may say,
what did the rabbis say about the Tanakh that helps us interpret the understanding? And they even
argue sometimes online. They'll say, you know, look, if you don't have the Mishnah, if you don't have
our writings, you will not be able to properly interpret the Hebrew Bible. And this this is
a saying. Sure. But think about what proper interpretation means. Proper interpretation
means for this particular community. If some other community wants to interpret it, it might not be a
Jewish interpretation, but that doesn't necessarily delegitimize it. So with Jews, I mean, even if you
look at the Mishnah, which is actually not a commentary on the Bible, the mission is quite
sui generis. It does its own thing. And sometimes it tells you what's in the text and sometimes
not. You really need the Talmud to get that textual connection, which is probably more detailed
than anybody wants to know. The mission is basically a law code. So what happens in Judaism is Jews
can disagree because at the end of the day, we're all still Jews. Because Judaism is not just an
ism, right? It's not just a religion. It's the Jewish people. So if you're a member of a people group,
or citizenship, or whatever you want to call that, have a common language, you have a common text,
which is your constitution, you have a focus on a particular land, you have a sense of a common
ancestry. So to be Jewish is kind of like to be Swedish or even like to be American, right?
Which means at the end of the day, you can disagree and they can't throw you out because
you're part of that people group. You're in the family. Now, Christianity is not a people group
in the same way. And we can see that already in the beginning of the Gospel of John. So when Jesus
talks to Nicodemus, this is John chapter three, and he talks about you have to be born from above
or born anew, which born again, Christians translate as born again, which is not really the
best translation. But in any case, you're not in because of your parents, and you're not in
because of your ethnicity, you're in there because of belief. Now, this makes a difference. Because
if you get into a tradition by belief, you get out by belief. So more or less in the same way
that Christianity invented this idea of getting into a movement by belief, right? They also invented
getting out by belief, we would call that heresy. So consequently, Christians don't argue that much,
because if you argue too much, you're out of the system. Jews, we can argue till the Messiah
comes back because they can't throw us out. So even our heretics are still our heretics.
Right. This gets into, oh, man, there's a big, I'm reading, just interviewed,
Catelle Bethelot. I hope I'm saying it correctly. She wrote a book, Jews and the Roman Rivals,
and she's getting into this whole amazing discussion that I really appreciate. So thank you for that.
Let's get into prophecy, if you may, maybe bring up one of the hot topics you mentioned earlier,
Isaiah 53. How do the two groups see this? And maybe what, what, is there a way to say what the
original, I don't know if that's something you do in particulars, try to deal with how it was
originally understood? Dale Martin, for example, I spoke to him one night on the phone, trying to
potentially set up an interview, and he said, stop trying to figure out what Paul thought.
You'll never know what he meant. You'll never know what he thought. And he wanted me to say,
he said to me on record, does it really matter why Mozart wrote his, his first symphony?
Or does it matter how people understand what, you know, Mozart symphony means to them? And I'm like,
I don't really care for that kind of way of thinking. I'm more interested in wanting to know
what it really meant when this was written. And I know that sometimes you can't know that for sure,
but I want to try to know. Historians are sometimes better off trying to figure out what a text would
have meant to the audience that first received it. Because now we got more information. Oh,
this reminds me of this, or I'm in a particular situation. So clearly, Paul is addressing me
in my situation in Corinth or in my situation in Rome. It doesn't matter. The question is,
does it matter to whom? As an author, I like it when people say, well, what I really didn't
understand, I mean, it doesn't happen that often, because I try to be pretty clear. But, you know,
what, what motivated you to write that? Or what did you have in mind when you were writing this?
Or I hear in your tone, something that sounds angry, or something that's making light of something,
is that what you intended? So I want to make sure that my intent is clear. But there's always going
to be slippage between what I intend to say and what somebody receives. I can see that in the
classroom, you give a lecture, you think you're clear, and then you get the exams back. And you
where did they get this stuff, right? Because I didn't say it. Or even sometimes in conversations
with my husband or with my kids, I'll say something and they'll respond and say, well, that's not
what I meant. But that's what you said. So interpretation is always going to be a little
bit fuzzy. Can we get to the author's intent? We can try, but it's always going to be a guess.
We don't know. When it comes to looking at Isaiah 53, another reason why Jews and Christians
read differently is because we emphasize different parts of the text. So Isaiah 53, if you're on
a church on electionary, right, so you're reading certain texts annually or tri-annually,
you're going to get Isaiah 53 a bunch of times. Jews aren't going to hear that read.
In some situations, it looks like at one time or another,
Isaiah 53 was read in the congregation. But it's not big for us. We don't read Isaiah 714,
which is the pregnant young woman's story. So because we emphasize different parts of the
text, Jews emphasize the Torah, Christians emphasize the prophets. What did it mean originally?
I think there might have been somebody who I don't think he dies. I think he's just really
suffering. And people look at that suffering and somehow they are transformed by it.
And if that strikes us as weird, just look at the sufferings of particular individuals today.
And when their suffering comes to mind and takes on national import or global import,
and then we suddenly realize we're doing something dreadfully, dreadfully wrong.
Right? I think that's what this guy is doing. And his suffering calls us to account.
So what happens in the Jewish tradition? This so-called suffering servant, which is not a
term Isaiah ever used, and it's not clear that the so-called four-servant song should be read
together. They only started to be read together because a Bible scholar named Bernard Doom said,
oh, let's read them together with servant songs. The traditional Jewish explanation
is the suffering servant, excuse me, is the people Israel brought into exile. And in antiquity,
if somebody brought you into exile, you basically disappeared, right? Because the idea of bringing
people into exile is that you would eventually acculturate or assimilate to the place where you've
been dumped or placed in capture, and then you lose your national identity. So they stayed
together. Cyrus came and conquered the Babylonians and said to these Jews, go home. And they went
home. So the Jewish view is, look at this. Here's a people who were brought into exile,
looked like they had died, they had been suffering, they were humiliated, their temple was burned down,
the Babylonians conquered Jerusalem, everything was like really, really bad, and boom, they're back
home. And then the Gentile nations would think, wow, that God of Israel must really be something.
That doesn't happen. So by witnessing the suffering and then the redemption of the people,
Israel, the Gentile nations go, wow, God of Israel, good job. And that then becomes the
traditional reading. And it makes sense when we see this in the medieval period. You can
see this in the medieval commentator, Rashi, who saw the destruction of the Jews in the Rhineland
by good Christians. And then they persevered. And people would look at their suffering and say,
but they're still here and maybe there's a message here. But other Jews said, no, no, no, it's Moses
or it's Isaiah the prophet himself or it's somebody else. We ended that chapter, Mark and I,
by talking about who were the suffering servants today, who call us to account. And we give some
examples from Catholic thinking about anybody who suffers for a good cause, anybody who suffers,
and we pay attention to their suffering. George Floyd, the people with this horrible
tainted water in Flint, Michigan, who knows most recently the people who were held hostage
by this anti-Semitic terrorist in Texas. We pay attention. We say, maybe we should
change the way we do things. Wow. Wow. It is interesting the way that everybody's looking
at these particular things. And I guess what you do is you bridge this. Everybody's not too far from
its significance in a way. Christians see an individual. It's initially and initially may
have been an individual. So there's one plus point for the Christian in terms of like getting closer
to the original and what it might have meant. But they don't really paint. They're not like
reading it that way saying, what's the original? They're reading it and how does this apply to us?
And that's the thing about Christianity, I find, is there's recontextualization taking place
in its own time. And it's not uncommon today. We have Christians reading, Donald Trump did what?
Hold on, Revelation 12 says, you know what I mean? And they just, they find ways to make everything
relevant to the here and now. And just like then, there were probably Messianic, apocalyptic-minded
people. And then you had those Orthodox people who said, chill out. Stop talking about the end of days.
Or think about the Christian move as an opportunity to double dip. So that you can see everything in
that text is pointing to Jesus. But that doesn't mean that if you've got something that looks really
strong like the suffering servant in Isaiah 53 to say, okay, I can put a check mark next to it.
And now I'm done with that. Taking care of the text can have more than one value. So it can point
to Jesus, but it's still there. And it's doing something more, I think, than just pointing to
Jesus, right? Maybe it's pointing to the reader today, because people who are reading the text
as sacred scripture, right, are going to say, well, it means this, but it can also mean that.
Because if it doesn't mean something to us today, then it really has no function.
Right. And I think the text ought to be, I don't think it ought to be a checklist.
Been there, done that, get rid of it. So Jesus can say, I'm not sure he said it, but he could have
said while he's dying, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Which is the beginning of Psalm 22.
But he's not the only one who prayed that. And in the Jewish tradition, that prayer is actually
assigned to Queen Esther. So I mean, there's lots of usable stuff here. Wow. It's a living
scripture to them. It's something that is alive to them. And that's what's really interesting
even if you're a fundamentalist. So I go to an Orthodox synagogue. I'm so unorthodox, it's just
bizarre, but I do go to an Orthodox synagogue. Because I like the people and I really like the
liturgy. I like a full Hebrew liturgy. And I like the Bible discussion. Like, so you talk about the
partial, the passage of the week. I mean, that's just like best Bible study ever. So I say to my,
like my Orthodox friends, as I would to my fundamentalist Christian students, yeah,
Moses wrote this, no problem. Why this word rather than that word? And how does this text relate
to that text? So even if you want to hold on to these, these very fundamentalist views,
you can still do a whole lot of really, really good Bible reading.
Yeah, there's a lot of things. Who's the, you know, this gets into the JEDP documentary hypothesis
stuff that you could really go. All right. So who again is Moses's father-in-law or what mountain
did they go and get the laws from? Like you could really, you know, kind of point these things out.
And multiple voices came from Moses here. And it's just fascinating that you do that. So thank you
for answering that question. Now something weird that comes up. And I say it's weird because we
live in 2021. It's not something that we go 2022. Yeah, here I am trying to just say in the 2000s and
on. You're 100% right. I hear the logos. You know, this is something that is emphasized in the
Gospel of John. Christianity really dives into this whole logos thing. And we have Jews don't seem
today at least when I hear them speak. They're not emphasizing this logos. And maybe that's a
Hellenistic term that they're probably not too fond of using, but wisdom. And there's a strange
literature that's on the rise, it seems. So can you educate us just briefly on this like
wisdom logos in Jewish pre-Christian thought, which might allow people to see like Christianity
didn't like one day. All right. Boom. Everything out of nowhere appears. There's a development,
a ground up, bottom up development that's happening in Jewish thought that caused Christianity
to come up with these terms or use these ideas. Yeah. How much time do we have? Okay. So I should
try to do this with some efficiency. So the Gospel of John starts out in Arche Ainho logos and the
beginning was the word and the logos was with God and the logos was God. And so it sounds kind of
like Philo, who's a Jewish philosopher from Alexandria, who talks about this entity called
the logos, which is connected to God, but also connected to humanity, kind of like an intermediary
figure. Okay. If you go to the Targum, so what's the Targum? A Targum is an Aramaic translation
and paraphrase of the Hebrew text, because it turned out in the first couple of centuries in
the common era that not all Jews could speak Hebrew. They spoke Aramaic. So when you had your
text being read out in Hebrew, you had to have somebody do the translation. And God loved them
when they did the translation, they also glossed it. So they translated and they said, and this
means something, something, something. Well, Jews have, for many millennia, had a problem with just
pronouncing the name of God, right? Because you don't want to take the name of God in vain.
So there are lots of circumlocutions. So you don't want to say God, God, God. So you need some other
word, very common word that you even hear today is the name, right? So in my synagogue, if you say
to somebody, how are you? The response is something like Baruch Hashem, blessed be the name, you know,
not so bad under COVID. So we talk about Hashem, the name. But in the Targums, these Aramaic paraphrases
sometimes instead of saying God, and here God is the Y-H-W-H, that unpronounceable name of God.
Instead of saying Hashem, they would sometimes refer to God as memra. And memra is Aramaic
for word. And why would they refer to God as word? Because that's how God creates.
So the memra was in the beginning with God, because obviously God created through the world.
So if you said to an Aramaic speaking Jew, you know, in the beginning was the memra and the
memra was with God and the memra was God, the Aramaic speaking Jew would have gone,
you know, we got this one. What happens? Where wisdom comes in comes in from the book of Proverbs
chapters one through nine. And then from a later text that made it as this is another problem with
Jews and Christians is we have what's in the Old Testament canon, right? The Jews just have the
Hebrew stuff. And a bunch of Christians have some Greek stuff, Roman Catholics, Anglicans,
Eastern Orthodox, like the book of Judith and the book of Susanna and the books of the Maccabees,
which is great side note, because Jews get the holiday of Hanukkah and Christians get the books
of the Maccabees. That's just weird. So in these these wisdom books, like Proverbs and Wisdom of
Solomon, there's this figure called wisdom, the Hebrews, and the Greek is Sophia, like the name
Sophia. And it says that wisdom is was in the beginning with God and sort of was a co creator
with God. So there's this other figure who's out there. So what happens? The Logos in the Gospel
of John looks kind of like wisdom, who was there at creation, drops into humanity, and sometimes
humanity rejects wisdom. So wisdom goes back up and then wisdom pops back down again. So Jesus,
the Logos in the Gospel of John looks very, very much like Sophia or Hohma, the Jewish symbol for
wisdom. Now, what do you do with that? You can say, oh, it's the feminine side of Jesus. It's the
female wisdom. It works in Hebrew. It doesn't work in Greek so well. Excuse me, it works in Hebrew
and Greek. It doesn't work in Latin so well. Or you can say Jesus has coopted the feminine figure,
just depends upon whether you want to read it on the left or the right. So it turns out there's
entities up there with God, right at the beginning of creation. And you can see that as well. You
mentioned this when you moved to 126 in Genesis, where God says, let us create and then you got
to worry about who that us is. Well, if you're reading the Gospel of John, it's the Holy Spirit
and the Logos. Of course, why not? And that's how the early church read it. If you're reading from
a Jewish context, it depends upon the Jew that you ask, right? If you're reading historically,
it probably means that God's taking counsel with the heavenly court because there are a bunch of
other gods up there. And we know that because the text tells us that. Moses's Song of the Sea,
which is actually part of the Jewish liturgy, you know, who is like unto you,
but Aileen means among the gods. And what happens in the prayer books, it gets translated among
the mighty and you know, who the hell are the mighty, there are other gods. So in the first
century, it just said hell, that was probably not okay. No, no, no, my channel's cool. You're
fine. Okay. Try to keep my language clean. So what happens is in the first century, even at the
time of Jesus, the time of Paul, there are multiple supernatural beings. What do you want to call
them? I mean, they're not humans. And it's like today we think there's God up here and there are
people down here and there's like big split, except for Jesus somehow bridges the gap. Well,
back then this is like range of like God like figures like Sophia wisdom or angels or the Satan
who becomes Satan drops off the the who's a sort of supernatural being who used to be part of the
divine court and kind of mucked up. And then you've got hosts of demons, right? Different major demons
and little demon lids. So the world is alive with these spiritual beings back then and we can today
in 2022 think that way. Yeah, I'm glad I know what year we live in now. That's that's the one thing I
think I absolutely walked away from this conversation learning is it's 2022. No, seriously, I think this
was amazing getting into the mindset of how they develop and why that would produce a whole
new interpretation and why interpretation through language. And, you know, you talk about the
translation to the LXX. I mean, there's this versions used instead of Alma. And then here you
have this whole long issue of what is it really saying you have Dead Sea Scroll texts that are
saying that it's using the Greek if I'm not mistaken in this particular passage where it does say
Virgin Dead Sea Scrolls have the big Isaiah scroll which is in Hebrew is Alma. Okay, so it is that
there's not a Greek version. That would be the Septuagint. And when you start getting other
Greek translations toward the end of the first century like Achila and Simechus and Theodotion,
they use words like Neonis, young woman. So the Septuagint gives us a virgin and it gives us the
verb in the future. Okay, we'll conceive. But even then you have to ask is this a miracle, right?
So it depends upon where you are. So let's say you're Isaiah and you're out there in the crowd
and you know, here's the king and you're trying to get to the king and whatnot. And you say to the
king, see that virgin over there and you point to a four-year-old child. She will conceive and bear
her child. You can presume she's going to grow up first. So what the Greek does is give you a couple
more years. Right? So even when we hear a virgin will conceive and bear her child, you know,
God willing, so my daughter gets born, she's a virgin. God willing, at some point she will conceive
a child. But at that point she's no longer going to be a virgin as far as I'm aware. Right? So even
when we have something that looks like it's the prophecy of the miracle, we have to step back
and say, well, is it? Isaiah says to the king, I'm going to give you what the king says, I don't
want to sign. Right? God gives you a sign. You have to do something. I don't want to sign. And
Isaiah says, I'm going to give you a sign anyway. Right? So is the sign a miracle? Well, according
to some church fathers like Justin Martyr, of course, a sign has to be a miracle. Greek would
be Semaia, like semiotics. Right? The Hebrew is ut. But circumcision is a sign of the Covenant.
It's not a miracle. It's an operation. You wear tefillin, they're phlacteraries, and you bind them
as a sign upon your arm. Right? But it's not a miracle. It's just a bunch of leather straps with
a little box at the end. So even when we use words like sign, are we thinking something
that's miraculous or something that signifies something else? Wow. Yeah. Okay. Okay. The Garden
of Eden. I figure I would ask you, like we did earlier with Isaiah 53. And I know this is,
there's so much exploration. I've been interviewing other scholars on their thoughts about where they
think it was written, when it was written, probably in the time of Babylon, because they had gardens
and there was literally food for the gods, things like this. There's other people.
It's not as if Babylonians invented the Garden. No, no, no. I'm saying that they think that the
text itself, though, is like, it has this, well, they learned these ideas, if you will,
while they're probably in captivity or they're in Babylon, maybe when it's written. My question would
be, maybe you, from your perspective of your research, what do you think it originally is saying?
And then, like, can you tell us some different interpretations that, you know, come from various
groups from Jews and Christians, maybe even mention Gnostics, because they have a, what we call
Gnostics, they have a wild new angle on that. But everybody's got a wild new angle on it. I mean,
we don't talk about Adam and Eve too much, because after Genesis, the first couple of chapters,
they pretty much disappear. They start popping back up in that Deutero canonical literature,
the wisdom of Jesus Ben-Syra, sometimes called Ecclesiasticus, and they come in strong in the
New Testament. In Romans 5, Adam messes up, Jesus fixes it. In 1 Timothy chapter 2, Adam was not
deceived, right? And I'm thinking, the lunk is just standing right there. She hands him a piece of
fruit and he eats, right? He doesn't ask. But 1 Timothy, he was not deceived, but the woman was
deceived to became a transgressor, and then you're off to, you know, women get saved by
bearing children, which is, that's weird. So Christians traditionally have a greater investment
in Adam and Eve than Jews do. When you start getting to people like Augustine and the idea
of original sin, so Augustine says that because of this, because of eating the fruit, it's only
an apple like in the 12th century. So because of eating the fruit, Adam's seed became vitiated,
which kind of means his sperm gutted like a negative genetic marker on it, so that everybody
who is conceived the normal way is conceived with this 10th of original sin, and Jews are going,
yeah, I don't think so. The rabbinic tradition looks at Adam and Eve as clearly having messed up,
but very much stresses their repentance. The Genesis rabbah, you know, you made repentance
just as your children will make repentance, and I God will accept that. As opposed to this is a
sin, it's a major problem, we need Jesus to come and fix it. In Jewish reception history,
Adam and Eve are pretty good. There's a book called the Book of Tobit, which I really, I
can and envy, I really, really like the Book of Tobit. Again, it's one of those Greek texts,
and Tobias, who's the, Tobit's the dad, so Tobias is the son, he has an adventure, he's got an angel
in disguise protecting him. It's very, very nice. Eventually, Mary's his cousin, whose name is Sarah,
who, by the way, has been widowed seven times because a demon who has fallen in love with her
keeps killing her kids, her husbands. That's an interesting text. And when they get married,
Tobit appeals to Adam and Eve as you made Eve the helper of the man and brought joy to these
people, so bring joy to us. And in the Shevachot, the seven blessings that are recited at a Jewish
wedding, one of the blessings appeals to Adam and Eve and to the joy of the first people.
So Adam and Eve, when they do come into Jewish reception history, generally pretty positive.
When they come into Christian reception history, oh, what a mess. So again, we choose how to read,
and one of the reasons we read differently is because of the different reception histories,
whether it's Romans 5 or 1st Timothy 2, or what's happening in something like Genesis,
Robin. So two things. You mentioned briefly in this book about original sin, or at least this
idea Psalms 51, where David says, I was born in my mother's womb and in iniquity or something to
this effect. So there is this idea that may have gave birth to Christian thought on these things
through the Bible. Can you tell us about that briefly? And one real question in this I'd love
to know is, of course, we see Israel's perspective. The authors are typically either Jewish or I would
say Jewish, most likely, but nonetheless, they're Israelites. In what way do Gentiles sin? Because
that opens a whole another can of worms. What counts as sin? Yeah, what counts as sin? And how
do we know biblically through the Hebrew Bible that Gentiles actually sin since they weren't
given the law, right? Because Christian polemic is, well, if they weren't given the law, they're not
guilty, right? They don't really, they don't know so they can't be blamed. How do we deal with this
issue? Well, you've just asked two separate questions. So let me answer the first, which deals
with the psalm and then remind me what the second one is, because sometimes I just get off honorable,
so you have to pull me back. So we've got this psalm, but it doesn't come into reception history
as anything other than a type of poetry. The psalm is a typical, the category is the psalm of
the lament of an individual. Like Psalm 22, my God, my God, why be forsaken? And they're generic.
I mean, anybody could write one of these things, because it's got the same skeletal outline. You
begin by saying how crappy things are for you when the present. And that's designed to call
God's attention. I'm suffering, pay attention. You remind God that God has done wonderful things
for our ancestors. You say to God, I'm in danger right now when you need to save me, like you
saved people in the past. And you end it by saying, if you do this for me, and of course, I know you'll
do it for me because you're God, and I trust you, I will sing your praises, right? So this is a typical,
you know, how bad are things for, they were bad from the moment I was conceived, right? I'm in
trouble, right? But he doesn't have any sort of doctrinal sense to it. We start getting an idea
of original sin, in part because of the translation of Paul's epistle to the Romans, chapter five,
into Latin, when we start getting what in Omnia Pekavirin, in him, Adam, they sinned,
rather because of him, they sinned, and then you start getting that internal, biological, whatever.
And that's the problem with language, right? So how do we know Gentiles are sinning? You're
right. The law code was written for Jews, which is one of the reasons why Paul is telling his
Gentile converts, don't get circumcised, because that wasn't written for you. You come into the
system as Gentiles, I mean, you don't lose your Gentile identity, but you turn away from your
gods, right, your Gentile gods, and you turn toward the God of Israel, okay? And you don't rag on the
Jews, because God will take care of them. But we do have, and there are various versions of this
in antiquity, for Jews, they invented something that we call today the Noah laws, or the Noah
hide codes, and that's from Noah, right? So after Noah gets off the ark, God makes a covenant,
this is before Noah gets drunk and things go downhill, God makes a covenant with Noah, and the
covenant is his bow up in the sky. We think about rainbow, it's really like bow, like bow and arrow,
so God is hanging up the weapon of war. Okay, I'm not gonna, you again, at least by flood. Fire
next time, thank you New Testament. Well, so the idea was that when God makes a covenant,
there are usually sort of stipulations to it, right? So what does the covenant mean? So they
developed this idea of the Noah hide codes, which is sort of like the law code for Gentiles,
and it doesn't have anything to do with the Sabbath or circumcision, there are seven of them,
and for me, they're kind of like the seven dwarfs, like one of them always goes missing,
oh, you've forgotten Dopey, right? So you can't murder and you can't steal and you can't engage
in sexual impropriety, like adultery or incest, things like that. You have to establish courts of
justice, because you need to have a just society. You can't rag on the Jewish God, right?
The last one is you can't eat a limb from a living animal, and I forget what the sixth one is,
but I think it has something to do with worshiping stones or something like that.
So they're basically just be a decent human being. Don't steal, don't murder, don't score around
inappropriately, particularly in situations that would be abusive, make sure you have a just society,
leave the Jewish God alone, don't worship what's clearly not a God, and don't eat the limb from
a living animal, because we care about the animal world as well. That may have something to do with
what was going on in some pagan temples also. Right. That makes, yeah, so when, like, I guess the
question is, because some people argue that Noah had laws on Gentiles, this maybe a later thing,
how would Paul have addressed this? Do you think that it's possible? And I'm just speculating here
to throw it to you as an expert on the field. Do you think that natural law may have played
some significance to like the thinking, because Philo has this, what seems to be a cosmopolitan
idea of the Torah, that it's this universal law that somehow fits in with his, if I could use the
word platonic concept, I'm getting really deep in the weeds here to make a point, but there seems to
be some overlap and influence where they're kind of competing in a way with the Roman world around
them and with the Gentile world to say, look, we've got even better, our God, our laws go all the way
back, our God is the true God and he is that infinite unmoved mover, you know, like what Plato is
kind of getting at. And everybody falls under this template. If we take Paul at his words,
if we granted that these are his words in Acts 17, which that's a whole nother issue, and he seems
to be preaching this universal message. Oh, you've got an alter to an unknown God, you're kind of almost
there. You know what, it didn't work. The sermon on the areopagus was a flop. You might try to speak
that language, but it's really not going to work, or at least it's not going to work in Athens.
Even Philo, Philo's talking other Jews, including these people that we call them the radical
allegorizers. Oh, you know, don't eat pork means don't behave like a pig, right? Have a ham sandwich,
it's not just, you know, take the allegorical interpretation. And Philo doesn't want to go
that far. He wants some practical payout as well. So whenever you have a lot, everybody's going to
disagree, right? The law says, honor the Sabbath and keep it holy, don't work. And once you look
at another and says what constitutes work, and the next thing you know, you've got two synagogues.
So laws always have to be interpreted, and that's what the rabbinic system does, right?
You have to interpret it. You wear this as a sign upon your arm and wear them as frontlets
between your eyes and write them upon the doorposts of your house. That's the mazaza, right?
What goes into it? How do you hang it? Who gets to hang it? What angle do you hang it on? Right?
So once you try to figure all this stuff out, that's when the rabbis come in and they help you,
and they usually say, well, Rabbi, this does it this way, and Rabbi X does it that way,
and the sages say this, and somebody out in Babylonia does something else, whatever,
as long as you're within the group. Paul, when it comes to natural law, appeals to natural law,
and it gets it wrong, right? If we want to talk about natural laws, what does nature teach us?
Paul, right? First Corinthians does not nature teach you that for a woman to have long hair,
it's her pride, but men should have short hair. And you go to the zoo and you go, no,
that's not what nature teaches. You have a look at the lions, you have a look at the peacocks.
When Paul talks about, and this is hard because we're not exactly, if Paul had,
it said, can I use the word penis? I'm very simple. If Paul had said, don't put your penis
in the following places, that would be very clear, right? But in Romans 1, which is one of the so-called
clobber passages about male homosexual activity, Paul talks about what's contrary to nature,
and he may be talking about lesbian activity and male homosexuality.
I'm going to go to nature, but this is actually not contrary to nature.
Right. So when, and by the way, Paul in Romans 11, when he's talking about, you know,
and all Israel will be saved in Romans 9 to 11, and he talks about how these wild olive shoots
are grafted onto the olive tree contrary to nature. You know, it's the same term. So in Romans 1,
contrary to nature, it looks like it's a problem in Romans 11, contrary to nature is what gains
Gentile their salvation. So what are you going to do with natural love? People can do stuff that's
contrary to nature, and it actually seems to work. What a mess. Yeah. I've never really thought
about that whole Romans 1, Romans 11 connection on natural law, but that's interesting. You point
this out. He obviously hasn't explored the world very much, so he only's dealing with his local
animals, I guess. Paul, we do the same thing. You look at something, oh, that's unnatural. I mean,
putting orange with pink. Oh my God. You know, ketchup, flavored ice, natural. Yeah. Different
tastes for different people. Then there's a parrot that does have those colors connected.
When my mother, my mother was born in 1913 in Massachusetts, and when she went to elementary
school to the Betsy B. Winslow Elementary School in New Bedford, which I think is still standing,
her teacher in first grade tied her left hand behind her back because my mother was a lefty,
and to be a lefty in like 1920 was considered to be, that's not right, because it's a right-handed
world. So to be left-handed was kind of like to be contrary to nature. So today, if some teacher
ties your hand behind your back, that's not contrary to nature. That's illegal. So at one
point, what we considered natural really turns out to be cultural, and that's always going to be a
problem because we impose onto our view of nature our own particular values, some of which are inherited,
and therefore do not understand nature very well because what we think is nature is really culture.
So to put it real simple in Paul's mind to answer this one, because I know that that's a difficult
one. Paul Frazier has written amazing, wonderful works. You're connected with these wonderful
scholars. I hope to see her later this year at her university. She actually said,
you don't give up, do you? And I said, no, ma'am, I don't. I really, really want to interview you.
I loved her books. Paul, it was terrific. Yes, you should go talk with her.
I hope a miracle happens where I can actually go and do that. That's my goal.
My question is, what did Gentiles need to be saved from in the context of Paul?
From the wrath it is to come. I mean, Paul's apocalyptic. Paul says,
catalogically, kind of tones it down by the time he writes Romans. And for the Deuteron
Paulians, like the pastoral epistles, it's like, yeah, we're going to be here for a while. Let's
get bourgeois. God's final judgment. So part of this is the same message that Jesus had,
repent and believe. And Paul is saying, okay, so how do you market this Jewish Jesus messianic view
to a group of Gentiles? And you say, you have the option of coming into the covenant,
and you don't come in via Torah, you don't come in via circumcision, right? You come in by changing
from your Gentile ways and worshiping God. And for Paul, and I think this is really optimistic.
That's how I understand Romans. Paul thinks that, you know, once you give up your Gentile
gods and you join this thing, that you have this kind of internal transformation,
and you move from the realm of Adam, which is the realm of humanity, and for Paul the realm of sin,
to the realm of Christ. And because you've now got Christ in your heart, you kind of have a moral
ticker. And because you now have a moral ticker, and you have Christ in your heart,
you should act accordingly, right? So that because you have Christ in your heart, of course,
you will love your neighbors yourself. Of course, you will provide food to those who are hungry.
Of course, you will not insult your neighbor, but you will work together as part of a common
body. I'm using imagery from 1 Corinthians, because you have Christ in your heart. And the
problem is it doesn't work, right? Which is why Paul has to keep writing all these letters saying,
you guys, come on, get with the program. Jews, on the other hand, have Torah, right? So we don't
have to have this internal heart thing, right? That's Jeremiah. You'll have like New Heart,
the New Covenant, and Jeremiah 31. We're not there yet. So Jews have the Torah, and the Torah says,
you'll always have the poor among you. So extend your hand to the poor and needy, and the prophets
say, you have to take care of other people, and you are your brother's keeper, and you have to
love the stranger. And the problem is we don't do it. So the Jews have a law code, but we don't
always follow it. And the Gentile Christians have the sense of internal transformation,
but it doesn't always play out in practice. So it helps, I think, to think about each other.
Can we think, can Jews think about the sense of an internal transformation? If you really,
really believed in God, or if you really, or if you were in it, because you're going to be an
atheist Jew, right? Again, we're a people, so we're not held together by belief. But you really
believe that somehow following Torah makes you a better person, which I think it does, right?
Because it gives you some kind of parameters, and it gives you urges, and it gives you
challenges, right? You're a better person, and the world will be a better place if you do that.
Can we take that literally to heart? And for Christians, particularly Protestants, who were so
antsy and squirrely, all this legalism, you know, you're like earning your way into having
good works, right? To say, no, no, no, no, that's what you're supposed to be doing. And if you're
not doing it, then you go to the Epistle of James, which says, faith with that works is also dead.
So who cares what you believe unless it caches out?
Bingo. That's why Jews and Christians should talk with each other, because we've got different
mechanisms for being better people and making the world a better place.
Thank you so much for that answer. I appreciate it. Priesthood. So you have a chapter, a whole
chapter. I really was mesmerized because I recently interviewed Harold Atridge, who wrote
Hermione on Hebrews, and I loved getting into that. I interviewed him on this channel, of course,
and we dove into this. But your chapter five is about priesthood, especially Hebrews,
Melchizedek, and supersessionism. So can we touch on this? You go deep into it. I don't want to
get you lost because I know you could really get into this. But let's first mention Melchizedek.
Who was Melchizedek? Jewish interpretation and thought of him. And then, of course,
the Christian understanding. And maybe if you have an original, what can we know of what initially
maybe that's the tough part? That's the one where it's like a huge question mark. And then we'll move
to what his name means. It could be named after a pagan god. It could mean king of righteousness.
Melchizedek. We don't know what his name means. He shows up in Genesis 14, and then he pops into
Psalm 110. And Psalm 110 just in Hebrew is an entire mess, and nobody really knows what it means.
And people make careers out of trying to translate this thing. And in Genesis 14,
he hooks up with Abraham, and it looks like Abraham pays ties to him.
Okay, well, that's pretty impressive, and he's a priest king. So what happens? In Psalm 110,
we have a reference to a priesthood after the order of Melchizedek. Like Melchizedek set up
this priestly succession, except that only works in the Greek. It doesn't work in the Hebrew. What a
mess. So by the time you get to the New Testament, in the epistle to the Hebrews, which I have to
explain to my students, Jews don't read and they go, but it's the epistle to the Hebrews. Yes,
but it's in the New Testament. Again, Hebrews says that Jesus is a priest after the order of
Melchizedek, which is how Jesus can serve as the high priest in the heavenly altar. Because
this is good plainism, right? You have this accidental stuff here, like altars and whatnot,
but up in heaven is the real deal where there's a new Jerusalem. You can see that in Revelation,
right? Because Jerusalem then drops down. There's a new Jerusalem up there, and there's a heavenly
temple, and Jesus is serving as high priest in the heavenly altar. And he can't do it legally,
because he's not from a priestly tribe. He's from the family of David, from the tribe of Judah.
And in order to be a priest, you have to be from the tribe of Levy, because Jews know these things.
Sort of like saying your ancestor had to have come over on the Mayflower in order to get into
this club, right? So priesthood and Judaism is carried on the paternal line. In Judaism,
if your father's a priest, you're a priest. If your father's a Levite, you're a Levite. Enrollment
Catholicism, not so much, because if your father's a priest, there's been a problem. So priesthood
in Christianity is a vocation. Priesthood and Judaism is an inherited condition.
So how do you get Jesus to be a priest? Oh, he's a priest in the order of Melchizedek.
Who? In the succession line, there was only one other person, and that turns out to be Jesus.
Jews are going, huh? However, when you go to the Dead Sea Scrolls, there's a text. We call it
today 11Q Melchizedek. So 11 for Cave, 11Q for C'mon and Melchizedek, because the text is about
Melchizedek. Melchizedek was huge in the first century, because he's just a weird character.
Kind of like Enoch is huge in the first century, because he's a weird character in Genesis.
So people latch on to these minor but fascinating figures,
and then entire biographies are built up around them. So that's what Melchizedek gets you, Jesus,
is a high priest. It is funny that after the order, there's only one succession in its Jesus,
because it's not foreign to the thinking of a Christian, or even possibly a Jew at this time,
if we grant what all the scholars are saying, Paul within Judaism. And the reason why I say that
is, Paul makes this, can I use the term convoluted? He makes, let me just put it this way, he has an
interpretation, where he makes an argument against his Judaizing foes, if you can, on his audience
in Galatians, by saying, you know, it's the promised seed, not seeds, many, but one. And so
here's this, Jesus is this Abrahamic seed, and if you're found in him, while you're Abraham's
descendants, and this is probably harping on this adoption idea that's in Rome at the time,
and there's some interesting stuff there. My point is, is that kind of what they're maybe
doing with Melchizedek, and saying there's some spiritual priesthood in heaven? And here's Jesus,
you know, the next successor of this heavenly priesthood?
I'm not sure it fits with your analogy to Galatians, when Paul says the promise was made to Abraham
into his seed. So, Zera in Hebrew and Sperma in Greek, but it's a collective, like sheep.
And Paul takes the plural, like your sperm, right? So you think about your sperm,
this is interesting for your eyes, think about your sperm, right? Normally people don't think
about one particular sperm, you think about this spray of sperm. It's probably more visceral than you'd
want for your show, but in any case. So Paul takes the plural as a singular and says, and that becomes
the Christ, and you get in through the Christ. That's not quite the argument that's being made
in the epistle to the Hebrews, but the idea of taking a text and kind of massaging it and adding
to it, that's perfectly normal. The Dead Sea Scrolls are doing more or less the same thing.
And the best example there, which is not quite on the same track, but close, is to look at the
Peshir Commentaries for the Peshir Nahum and Peshir Habakkuk. So it's like, you know, Nahum said
this, but we know what it really means because the Teacher of Righteousness told us that. And,
you know, if you actually show this to Nahum, Nahum's gonna probably gonna go, what? And that's
okay. There's a wonderful Midrash about Rabbi Akiva, who dies in the Bar Kokhba Revolt, says 132
to 135. He's martyr, right, about 100 years after Jesus. And he's teaching in a school.
And God says to Moses, you know, have you met my friend Rabbi Akiva? Fabulous. So God and Moses
go to Rabbi Akiva's school and they're sitting in the back. And Akiva's getting all this additional
information and how come there were little crowns on some of the letters and the Torah. And Akiva
says this all comes from Moses, and Moses is completely flummoxed. So the idea is that a person
can write something, and it can mean so much more than that person originally intended. And
then somebody comes along and says, oh, it means this. And if you can get a sufficient audience,
then it's instantiated. And that's what Hebrews is in a way doing, it seems. And you talk about
Supercessionism, which ties into this. It's very connected, but I'm glad you took the time to explain
Melchizedek before we did, because he's a strange guy. He's a fun character to think about. He's
also got a miraculous birth. I mean, you know, he's just fun. Yeah. Isn't it a miraculous birth
because they don't mention a birth for him? And that's really why they think it's a miraculous
birth? Well, it could be, but they don't mention a birth for Enoch. I mean, we don't have details.
So, you know, can you fill in? Sure, you can fill in. You know, he's Noah's nephew. And
his wife was not having sex with her husband because he was a priest. And, you know, if you're
at the altar, you don't want to be sperming. And suddenly she turns up pregnant and he accuses her
of adultery, but she wasn't committing adultery. And then she drops dead. And then there's this
kid who looks like a three-year-old dressed like a high priest. Okay, now the text is, it goes
longer than that. But those are the basic plot lines. And where the heck did you get that out
of Genesis 14? Well, it doesn't say it didn't happen. So the Supercessionism in Hebrews,
something to make note of. I've even heard it also coined as replacement theology to some degree.
There are some scholars who think Matthew, the Gospel Matthew might be doing this as well to
some degree. But Hebrews takes everything and puts it in heaven. It even takes this weird passage.
I say weird because when we think literally the way I've always interpreted our Bible,
I'd read this Jeremiah passage and say the New Covenant will be for the house of Israel,
the house of Judah. And I know those houses from reading my Hebrew Bible as here's the kingdom of
Israel and here's the king of Judah. And these are literal locale with literal people who had
different tribes. They're from, you know, et cetera, et cetera. But we get to the New Testament. Here
he is. He uses the same thing and he says, you know, the New Covenant will be for the house of Israel
and the house of Judah. And there's confusion. Even today, there's some people who will run off
into different versions of interpretation in groups. And they, they, they're even racist groups
that will take this and say, well, these Gentiles, for example, they'll argue that
they're Christian identity groups, let's say, they go, we connect back ethnically to this.
And if you look at these passages, it was for an ethnic group only. And they don't understand
that the social identity markers of Israel have been now applied to a new people. And they are
the fulfillment of tech in their interpretation, of course, of these Hebrew scriptures. So how would
you like explain Supercessionism and how that, and you only have five minutes, Nob.
Supercessionism is the idea that all the promises that were given to Israel get transferred over
into the Gentile church. And that's why it's sometimes called replacement theology. So the
Gentile church replaces ethnic Jews. If ethnic Jews want to join the Gentile church, then they,
they go back into Covenant, but they don't come in as Jews. They come in as, as no longer Jews
or the Judaism part, the Jewish ethnic marker doesn't count. I think the entire New Testament
has Supercessionist tendencies because it's salvation only through the Christ. And then
various Christians have worked out different ways of, you know, getting the Jews in. I think Paul
expects Jews to remain Jews, but eventually to come into this Christ thing eschatologically.
But they come in as ethnic Jews retaining Jewish practices. The Gospel of Luke has no triumphal
entry, right? So you get the triumphal entry where the crowds are like Hosanna and King David.
In Luke, it's only the disciples. Jerusalem's like, I'm so sure about this. And Jesus talks
about the time when Jerusalem will welcome its king. And that's, that's like at the second
coming. So if Jerusalem is going to do that, you need to have Jews around,
quad Jews, in fact, living in Jerusalem to welcome Jesus when he returns. But the whole
thing is basically it's, it's salvation through the Christ. Well, that's Supercessionism. It
doesn't replace the Jewish Covenant, or does it add to it? And that's why sometimes people will
talk about Supercessionism, not as replacement theology. In other words, the Jewish Covenant is
still in place, but it's also salvation through the Christ. And you can see hints of that actually
in Roman Catholic thought, right? It's of course it's salvation through the Christ, but we affirm
the Jews as Jews, and God will take care of them or take care of us eschatologically.
And other texts can be read as Jews, but you basically lost it. It's all salvation through
the Christ. And if you want to hang on to your Judaism, it's kind of an accidental thing. It's
like hanging on to your, your identity as a German or a Botswana or a Mexican.
Christians today are concerned about this. And a number of them are concerned about groups like
Christian identity, who not only claim to be somehow biologically connected with King David,
right? But they look at all Jews as descended from an Indo-Turkish group called the Khazars,
which you'll come feel about that. You know, how did they get to Yemen? Yeah, so all the
Mediterranean Jews and the North African Jews have nothing to do with this, as well as various
biological studies about Jews who are connected as Jews and not as, you know, Polish people or
Turkish people or whatever. I don't like these genetic studies. They make me very, very nervous.
But as an historian, I can see the continuity of Jews from the Second Temple period through the
time of Jesus up into the mission to the Talmud today. And that's an unbroken stream. Did some
people convert it? Of course, did some people leave? Of course. But is there people continuity? I
think so. I think so, too. And I just think there's this drive for a lot of these groups,
whether they be Christian identity, British Israelites, there's Black Hebrew Israelites,
for example, that are on street corners, they're the Hebrews, and there's this competition and
argument. And I think they want that identity. And there's this blend of a mixture of interpretation,
I think, that's happening. It's almost like a modern concept. Dilling with racism that has happened
has caused, I think, this struggle of, well, I find ethnic, can I use the term ethnic supremacy
in some sense? Like, here's a special people group from all the people of the earth.
Right. I want to be chosen. I want to be part of this. They're reading the clear clan tribal
indications in Genesis, where it's to their seed, their descendants, literally Abraham's,
and they take that literal and they don't see, they're trying to force that into the New Testament
and make them somehow connected to this as their way of being, oh, I'm chosen. Calvinists will do
that because I used to be one. They'll do that, but they don't have to have ethnicity involved.
They're like, you know, look, I had faith because God elected me. And double predestination. Yes,
ma'am. So I just thought I'd mentioned that I think it's what you're doing is valuable because
it actually showing the distinction and interpretation and that people can kind of red flag and see
this is a modern thing, a very modern concept. I mean, it's only a couple hundred years old that
British Israelite isms really on the scene in that way. The development has been for longer,
searching for the lost Israelites, searching for which group they might be, you know, Joseph Smith
did this, where he thought the Native Americans were these lost Israelites and stuff as you call
them. But anyway, oh, sure. So the idea of co-opting somebody else's identity, there's nothing new there.
If a Christian wants to say, I feel like I'm part of Israel, I think in terms of the New
Testament, there's warrant to do that, that the comments that you're making about Galatians,
about so you get into the family of Abraham by adoption. And as you mentioned, adoption is
really huge in the first century, because at least if you're adopted, your parents wanted you,
if you're if you're born out of out of your mom's vagina, that's kind of an accident to birth, right?
So you get you get whatever you get. So adoption can be looked at as really quite a positive thing,
like Julius Caesar adopting Augustus, who's not his biological child. And I don't mind that.
What I do mind is the and therefore Jews have no role here anymore. Yeah. And that's where the
replacement comes in. That's the dangerous stuff. And I think it's also theologically
problematic for those who believe in God, because it says God is not faithful to the divine covenant,
right? So God makes promises to Israel and said, Oh, the hell with Israel? Oh, I said it again.
Let's, you know, let's go to the Gentile. Why not just say, in effect, the hell with the Gentile
church, and we'll go find some other group. Yeah. And this is where that strife that you're trying
to connect here in the book, there's a tension that you're really doing a fine job, I think,
pointing out, because it's like, you need the Jews, you need this literature, you need to understand
or else you're cutting your, you're sitting on a branch and you're cutting the branch off. And
the Jews are typically looking at Christians and not empathizing, I don't think they're not really
aware of, they're not giving a fair, I guess you'd say, chance at understanding why they've come down
this, this interpretive, interpretive model, why they've come to these conclusions. And it's not
just, and I'm not saying all Jews, by the way, I'm speaking for like the individuals who are
involved in the engagement, like my friend Rabbi Tovia Singer, you know, they're, these are my
friends. So I just, I think you do so good in this book, trying to give people a perspective
that they haven't really thought about. Right, so I don't think the way that you promote Judaism to
Jews who might be attracted to Christianity and you're thinking, well, I really don't want my
kid to convert and I'd really like my kid to remain Jewish, is not to say, well, here's what's wrong
with the New Testament, here are some inconsistencies I can point out to you, or here are some other
ways that you can read Isaiah. Or here's why the, basically here's why Christianity is wrong.
You tell the Jew, let's learn a little bit more about your own Judaism before you want to add
Jesus in. What are you looking for here? Are you looking for spirituality? Well, here's some
resources within your own tradition you might not have considered. Are you looking for a better
community, which is often the case? Well, how about this synagogue over here, or this Rabbi
over here who might work for you? So it works in reverse as well. I've had students who have said
to me, gee, I'm really interested in Judaism, I think I want to convert. You know, can you
point me to a local Rabbi so I can start taking lessons? I said, I can do that.
But why do you want to convert? You know, what is it about Judaism that you find that you can't
find in your own tradition? And granted, each tradition has strengths and weaknesses. But
conversion, I mean, unless you're an orphan, conversion will mean something probably to your
family. So you come from a good, what, Presbyterian household, or a good Methodist household, or a
good Roman Catholic household, and you say, I think I want to be Jewish and your mom's going, but
but I sent you to Sunday school and your dad's going, but I confirmed you.
It means something because it means you're leaving part of a family, part of a group,
part of the people. And don't do that. It's sort of like, I think I want to emigrate, right?
Don't do that unless you're absolutely sure that what you're looking for is not already in your
own tradition, but you don't know it. So one of the benefits of interreligious conversation,
at least I found this for myself, is the more I study Christianity, the better Jew I become.
So I find something that's really cool in the New Testament. They're really cool and, you know,
medieval Christianity. I go, yeah, I wonder where that is in Judaism. What have we got that?
You know, where's that, that Sophia, that feminine Holy Spirit? Oh, it's the Shekinah. Oh,
we got that one. You know, where's the sense of spirituality in a system which is substantially
legal. And they have all these Jewish mystics, like the mystics in Spaten. Oh, wow, that's really
cool. It's what Christristendal talked about when he talked about Holy Envy, that you look at your
neighbor's tradition, go, but that's really interesting. It's not mine, but I can learn from
it. And I might find something similar in my own tradition that I did not know about because it's
not like in 40 points, it's like in two points, but it's there. Wow. So go learn all that other
stuff because it makes you a better you before you jump ship and become a better something else.
Thank you so much. That's beautiful. I love the way you put that. Let me skip this next Justice
and Mercy with Jesus. Just to point out, you really got to read the book on this because
many Christians come along and they say, or many even critics, Jesus totally radically changed
everything and he's anti-law and read the chapter. You'll get a better idea. It's just
something to look at. So human sacrifice. This is a juicy one, right? Because there is
precedence of this in the Hebrew Bible. So when I hear those who are against Christianity,
typically the Jewish apologists who are saying, are you kidding me? It's an Obama nation. You can't,
human sacrifice is an abomination. It seems there are certain indications and then there are some
places where it happens and it even works, you point out. Can you tell us a little bit about
human sacrifice and then we'll get into the whole Eucharist for a moment? It was done on occasion.
I mean, you get hints of it in Genesis 22, which is the Abraham and Isaac story. Jebtha in Judges 11
sacrifices his daughter. Jebtha vows to God. If you let me win this battle, I'll sacrifice
the first thing that comes out of my house. And when people say it's the dog, I'm like,
no, I don't want my dog. I mean, it turns out to be his daughter. It's a very, very rash
foul. And the story is, it reads like a Greek tragedy where you get, Jebtha is a damaged individual,
he's traumatized individual because of his own background and he winds up sacrificing the one
other human being who actually loves him. Anyway, and then you have kings who are killing their,
there's the crown prince on the wall and then the tide of the battle. So, you know,
only at the last minute do you do this. It apparently worked. We're certainly not doing
it in the first century, as far as we know. Right. Jesus dies as a ransom for many, as
Matthew and Mark puts it. So, instead of thinking of him as human sacrifice, we might think of him
as martyr. The Epistle to the Hebrews does use sacrificial language and talks about how much
more potent his blood is than the blood of sacrificial animals like sheep and cows.
Because people back then thought that way.
When I think of human sacrifice today, I mean, we still do it. So, we let our kids go into the
military and they're going to go sacrifice their lives to go protect, ideally to protect other
people. When people die today as martyrs, as some do, because they're trying to do the right
thing. So, we just had the Martin Luther King, Jr. Holiday. That's a type of sacrifice. He knew
his life was on the line. He knew people wanted him. He's willing to do that. So, it helps us
think about sacrifice. So, the question is, do Jews need blood in order to have atonement?
That's the question. Why? Because the Epistle to the Hebrews, which again, Jews don't read,
says you have to have blood for atonement and Jesus gets you that blood. And now what do you do?
Because your temple is destroyed and you haven't done animal sacrifices since about the end of
the year 69 of the Common Era. I once had a fellow, this is years ago, say to me, Professor Levine,
do Jews in urban areas need a zoning variance in order to offer animal sacrifice? That's an
interesting question. Why? Because he had read Leviticus that talks about animal sacrifice. He
had read the Epistle to the Hebrews and he concluded, if Jews don't believe in Jesus,
they must still be sacrificing animals. No. Okay. Even if you read Leviticus, there are certain
cases where if you don't have an animal for sacrifice, you can use a grain sacrifice.
When you get to the rabbis, they make a lot of comments about this. This is one rabbi that says,
the death of the righteous makes atonement for sin. There's a hint of that in 2 Maccabees,
when these seven sons of, Jewish sons of a righteous Jewish mother are tortured to death
for refusing to eat pork. There's a sense that their death is somehow efficacious for the people,
because then they can talk to God directly. So did they have this sense of the death of a martyr
is righteous, a righteous martyr is efficacious? Sure. But are they thinking about like the blood
of the cross or washed in the blood of the lamb to use a good kind of image from the book of
Revelation? They're not going there. Wow. But in the first century, it kind of made sacrifice
with Wisconsin. Sacrifice was like the internet. Everybody knew that it worked. Everybody knew
that blood functioned like a detergent because blood can purge sin. They weren't quite sure
how it worked. Like I'm not quite sure how the internet works, but it works. And then you have
professionals in antiquity. They're called priests today. They're called people at the genius bar.
So, you know, when you need to do this thing, there's somebody who knows the ritual
that will make it. It was perfectly common. So nobody questioned blood sacrifice today.
It sounds kind of creepy because most of us aren't around animals when they are being
slaughtered in an abattoir in order to get the food on our table.
See, I've been blood that way.
Just something to think about with the death of Jesus. I've heard cognitive dissonance
is like a big thing that's set in for like explaining why the Messiah dies that they
believe he's the Messiah. Now he's died. It's like, what the heck? So they're searching the
scriptures. They have to think this is prophecy because they're living in the end. Jesus is an
apocalyptic teacher who's probably just like the rest of the kumran sect and Paul and everybody
else is probably in the same vein. And these people are like, no, no, no, this has got to
be in my book. And you know, they're searching. Do you think that that cognitive dissonance
is what sets in for the death or how do you look at it? Do you think Jesus came out thinking,
you know, I'm going to do some things and things are going to go south. So get ready.
I'm asking you all sorts of million dollar questions.
It sounds like you're talking about what's his name, Leon Festinger's, when prophecy
fails, right? So it's a sociological reading on cognitive dissonance. You get into this movement,
you're convinced something major is going to happen. Like you're going to be rescued from
aliens or whatever it is. I don't remember the details. And it doesn't happen. So what do you
do when this, you know, the prediction of the end of the world doesn't happen? Instead of saying,
my bad, and you go back to your home, right? You start bringing in converts, right? That's the
cognitive dissonance model. I'm not sure that's what happened. I mean, I see the appeal of it,
but I'm not quite sure what happened. I think that some people really saw Jesus. Now, could
you catch it on a camera? I don't know. But I think they saw something. And whatever they saw,
or at least whatever one of them saw and convinced some others, it changed their lives.
Because I don't want to look at them as hypocrites. And I don't want to look at them as
somehow psychologically traumatized into thinking something just, you know, cuckoo. I think they
actually felt something. You can see things similar today for a variety of different people who suddenly
wake up one morning, and they feel this all encompassing divine presence. And some of them
are seeking, you know, when they're praying, you know, they're on their knees going, please
appear to me. And some of them are just going to walk in through the woods and go, wow. Or they
wake up one morning, and there's this, I feel this piece that I've not known before. And I'm
known, I know lots of people to whom this has happened because they write to me and they tell
me this. And I don't think they're nuts. And I don't think they're psychologically damaged. And
some of them weren't seeking at all. But I can see the palpable transformation in their personalities.
And that may have happened as well. And there might have been something, I think Jesus was
really charismatic, right? There were other healers, there were other teachers, but I think he had
whatever it is that that the Greek term charisma really fits here, that like you're in his presence
and you feel like this is absolutely right. And he's speaking directly to me. And I get it.
And I want to be with him. And I want to be like him or I want to be him. And then how do I do that?
And it once surprised me that that's how some of his followers felt about him.
Wow. Well put. Yeah, there's always something to look at here. And I really was reminded of my
grandfather who died a few years back when they went to the funeral. It was like, he lived in
New York, Cooperstown, New York, where the baseball hall of fame is. And it was hundreds of people.
Who David Ortiz, by the way, who just got elected in. Oh, wow. I'm an old Red Sox fan.
Well, some random gentleman walked up and spoke and he says, I met Paul Lambert. I don't know how
many years ago at the, at the, where did you pick up your mail at the mail place? And he said, I don't
know. He said, Paul Lambert had it. And he says, I don't know what it is, but he had it. And it
was just profound because it's like, it, what is it? It's a thing. And we all know what it is,
because we all meet that person that stands out. And that seemed to be what you're implying there.
And it's interesting to wonder, because what would a guy like this make such an impact to the point
where they would have remembered him, right? Cause this gets into people who want to think,
maybe he didn't exist at all. Or, you know, or there's people who think he did exist a full
fledge, but they believe the whole narrative. At the end of the day, he had to have been at least
impactful enough that he stood out beyond people like Judas the Galilean, or other people who
are apocalyptic at this time. But they died out. Their movement just didn't quite have the same
impact. I don't know. I mean, it could just be the followers of him also had it. And so they ended
up having an impact. And this growth of the movement happens. Who knows? Of course, there's
also the miraculous that people want to bring into account, but I'm personally a naturalist on
those levels. So I try to factor in like Scooby Doo, what's behind that mask there, sir? You know,
I'm always looking. So sure. Well, I mean, Bart Ehrman has made a really good case that stories
of miracles are really quite convincing. So even if the miracle did not happen, the story
happened, and the story can keep you going, which is in part the way the scriptures work
anyways is the story of the Exodus. Well, who knows about the history of the Exodus? People
are still working on it. But boy, that story can keep you going. And that story can give you hope,
which is which is why people enslaved people to the day are still appealing to that story.
So to leave out the power of story seems to me to be a lack of historical imagination. Stories
read. The idea that there's this multiple divinity thing in antiquity that we talked about. So could
Jesus have become divinized, right? Sure, he's a vindicated martyr. So there are a bunch of categories
into which he could fit in that time period. And today, those categories are just so weird to us
that we either go, well, it has to be true because it really happened, or it can't possibly be true
because stuff like that doesn't happen. Yeah, yeah, that's our quite bifurcated worldview that
people in antiquity really didn't have. I'm loving this conversation. So this I'm torturing you by
having you on here nonstop. I have to ask one more question for the sake of brevity, because I
really want to have you come back. And I don't want you to think, Oh, it's the Smith vision guy.
He wants to talk for days, and he doesn't know how to shut up. I just love what you say in the
book. Really excited me. It sparked a new interest of wanting to dive into various ideas and from the
Jews actually listen to them because I grew up in Christianity and the Christian interpretation.
Now I'm really fascinated to how Jews thought about these things, and it's got me peaked. So I
hope the same happens on the other end, and everybody wants to find out more. My final question,
I'm going to skip the Son of Man enigma, and just simply ask you about Jonah, because Son of Man
will get us lost in the weeds. Jonah is a fun book. I really think it's hilarious. God chooses
this guy who's who's like, Yeah, pro Israel. He's like, it's like saying the modern day Republican
and Democrats. Okay, they hate each other. You can see it. And here he chooses this Republican.
So to speak, it's even deeper because there's ethnicity involved. This is a whole people
group. It's their identity is even deeper. But nonetheless, he chooses him and says, Hey, I want
you to go to those bad guys, those people who treated you like absolute crap. I want you to
tell them to repent. I want you to tell them to stop doing their wickedness. And I'm going to show
them mercy. And he runs from God. And he's on his way out. Tell us about Jonah, interpretations of
it. Maybe tell us what its original intent is you think, and then interpretations of it by
Jews and then Christians, how they understood it. We will try to do this efficiently. There is a
prophet. His name is Jonah Ben Amity. He lived during the reign of King Jeroboam II in the northern
kingdom of Israel, where things were just fine. The economic boom. But with any economic boom,
the rich get richer and the poor get poorer. And Joseph, Jonah is like this good nationalist,
rah, rah, kingdom of Israel, right? That's not mentioned in the book of Jonah. So that's,
do we read the book of Jonah in light of this fellow? That's already an interpretive decision.
Jonah gets called by God. And Jonah does what prophets really ought to do because prophets don't
want to be prophets. Who wants to be a prophet? Your job as a prophet is to tell people stuff
that they don't want to hear. And in fact, the only truly successful prophet turns out to be Jonah.
The rest of them, not so much. So Jonah hightails it out. He books passage on a ship to go to a
place called Tarshish, which actually gets up a Jonah-Paul connection because Tarshish sounds
like Tarsus, which it probably wasn't anyway. And he's trying to escape and he falls asleep
in the ship. And there's this major storm and the sailors, pagan sailors, like, what do we do? And
they, you know, they pray to their God, doesn't work. And finally, they think it must be Jonah's
fault. So they wake up Jonah and they ask him who he is. And then we have a text critical problem
about how he identifies himself. We'll skip over that. And finally, Jonah says to them, listen,
throw me overboard and everything will be fine, which is about as passive aggressive as you can
possibly be. He's not going to, yeah, you throw me overboard. It's your fault because you're bad
Gentiles anyway, and I'll prove it. Eventually, they toss him. And then they make sacrifices to
God, which is very nice. So Jonah winds up in the belly of a fish. And in chapter two, when Jonah
is a very long prayer, which is basically a mashup of a bunch of other prayer lines that really
don't fit. So, you know, when in doubt, throw a bunch of Bible verses together that you memorized
in the sword drill. Eventually, the fish literally vomits him out on the dry land.
And he goes to Nineveh. I'm now in Jonah chapter three, and he has a five word in Hebrew sermon,
which is basically repent, or in 40 days, the city will be destroyed. And then there are questions
about three days, 40 days, whatever. And the Ninevites, what's going to happen? Chapter four,
the Ninevites repent. In fact, their animals repent and they dress their animals in sack
cloth and a little bit for nature. And Jonah goes up on a hill and he's watching all this,
and he's pissed, because he wanted Nineveh destroyed, because Nineveh is the enemy.
And by the way, in the next generation after this fellow, Jonah, Ben Amity,
Nineveh, which is the capital of Assyria, will conquer the kingdom of Israel. So this is one of
those, gee, can we go back in history and kill, you know, this dictator or that is, let's take
out Nineveh now so our country will be safe. Interesting. And Jonah, who is the biggest
catch, I mean, he's really annoying. God causes his giant gourd, he actually says pumpkin,
to grow up over him. So there's shade, but then there's a giant more, everything is big. And
then there's a giant worm that comes and eats the giant gourd. And Jonah's in the sunshine,
and the sun is really hot. And he starts complaining again, he said, it's better that I die,
right? Because it's too hot. And then God says, well, you know, what about the Ninevites?
Don't you care about them, you know, thousands of people plus the cows. And that's the end of the
book. Oh, it's a weird book. And it's very, very funny. And it's clearly meant to be slapstick.
If you read the prophet Nahum, the prophet Nahum celebrates the destruction of Assyria.
So you have one thing that says the Assyrians can repent, your worst enemies have the ability
to be transformed. So think about, you know, positive relationships today with the Japanese,
who bombed Pearl Harbor, with the Germans and what happened during World War Two. And then
you can be friends. For Judaism, it's a book about repentance. And it is read on the afternoon
of Yom Kippur the day of repentance, only four chapters. And Jews read entire books,
Christians tend to read snippets. So you chant the entire book of Jonah, because it's about
repentance. If the Ninevites can do it, heaven knows you can do it, you're already in the system,
go do it, right? In Christianity, it becomes a symbol of resurrection, because Jonah is
in the belly of the fish for three days, ooh, three days, comes back up and preaches a message
of repentance. So in the Gospels, just as the Son of Man, it's Son of Man, wait, just as the Son of
Man will be in the ground for three days and then be raised. And then there's a final judgment.
So Jonah, and in antiquity, you begin to get Christian sarcophagi, he's after Constantine,
and on their sarcophagus, images of Jonah. So you can even see how Jonah works out in
material culture. Third, resurrection, synagogue, repentance.
That's supposed to say, yeah, Jonah is that image of resurrection. And does it have potentially
anything to do with this Gentile inclusion we're finding as well? Like, maybe it's a lesson of
saying, you know, those who are not us, we're bringing in, does it have any relevance to that,
you think? I think it does, but it's not the only one, because the Hebrew Scriptures,
the Old Testament, the Tanakh, has a motif known as the Righteous Gentile. And the Righteous Gentile
frequently pops in and does something that Jews are not doing. So it's Israel's way of saying,
hey, look, even the Gentiles get this point, you know, get with the program, right? Your next-door
neighbor, my children's right, well, so and so the next-door neighbor managed to get his homework
done. Right? And, you know, he doesn't have a mom who can read Greek. So, you know, why can't you get
this done? So, and the tradition of the Righteous Gentile comes in. I think Jonah can be and has
been used for that. The mother of Moses, the Pharaoh's daughter, right? She comes into rabbinic
traditions, but yeah, Righteous Gentile, Ruth, Righteous Gentile, the widow of Zarephath, who gets
cited in Luke chapter 4, Righteous Gentile. So there are lots and lots of them. But in the Jewish
Scriptures, the Righteous Gentiles remain Gentiles. They can affiliate with Israel. You only start
getting conversion following the Persian period. Right. That's second temple. Yeah. Wow. Everybody,
right now, the end is nigh. You must go and get a book, okay? I'm a little apocalyptic about it.
I think you really need to go and get a couple of her books. Seriously, though, on Audible, if you
have the capability of just listening, you can do that. But the paperback's also wonderful.
I highly recommend getting her books. I'm going to be going through them. So here's my encouragement
to my audience. As you saw how amazing this episode was, we're going to go through these books.
I'm going to go through them. I want you to go through them with me. And we will hopefully get
Dr. Levine to come back on. And we can go through these and have little fun discussions about them,
getting more people acquainted with the material because this is scholarship. Thank you so much
for giving me your time, your energy, your enthusiasm. Like I said, there wasn't any like,
I didn't have any order in particular, which I wanted to go with the flow and see where things
would lead us. But seriously, thank you. I would a pleasure to talk with you. Thanks very much.
And let's do it again sometime. Yes. Is there anything that I missed that maybe our audience
should know? Oh, page after page after page. Think of it as, you kept talking about him as
scholar. Yeah. And I suppose I am, but I'm also I'm a communicator. And to some extent, I'm a
storyteller. I have such passion for this material. And I want the passion to come through in the
writing. So I'm not inclined to use a whole lot of, you know, multimillion dollar words like the,
you know, the eschatological concern of the perversea in light of how's the shift. I didn't
have to do that. I'm just talk like a normal person and say, this is really interesting stuff.
Come journey with me and see how interesting it is. Wow. Ladies and gentlemen,
join us on this journey and never forget we are MythVision.
