Well hello everybody and welcome to my show, my name is Jason DeCosta and this is Consistent
Preterism.
Thank you for joining me today.
I don't go through the exhaustive lengths of finding who said this, or the when it was,
or the what page, or the what.
I'm the quick skim surface guy, alright I got it, boom let's roll with it.
That's just me.
It's always been that way.
Let's face it, IO has been around for a long time.
Just look at the black Hebrew Israelites.
He says do not go the way of the Gentiles, or the foreigners, or the nations, and do
not enter a city of the Samaritans, but rather go to the law sheep of the house of Israel.
Okay, so something's not right.
In other areas he's commissioning them in the same gospel commission and he specifically
tells them go to Judea, Samaria, and the ends of the earth, or land.
In other words, go to Judea, Samaria, and the nations.
So on one hand he tells them don't go to Samaria and the nations, but then on the other hand
he tells them to go to Samaria and the nations.
It shows that the law sheep of the house of Israel were amongst the Gentiles and the Samaritans.
They were in the nations and they were in the Samaritan kingdom.
So he's not telling them to go to the nations to preach to the true foreigners and to preach
to the true Samaritans who were not the law sheep.
He's telling them to go to the nations and to go to Samaria to seek the lost sheep of
the house of Israel, aka to find the elect in those regions.
But Jesus makes a very clear and very distinct statement when he says I come only for the
law sheep of the house of Israel.
He makes it even more clear and more distinct when he says do not go to the Gentiles and
don't go to the Samaritans, but go only to the law sheep of the house of Israel, or but
go rather.
So he contrasts the law sheep of the house of Israel to the Gentiles and to the Samaritan.
But one thing is for sure, we know that they were out there.
We know that they were scattered abroad because Jesus tells them go to Samaria to seek my
elect.
So we know they were there somewhere and we know they were in the nations because Jesus
tells them to go to the ends of the land, or the ends of the earth, aka the known land,
the known regions, the known nations, and seek out my elect.
So anyways, it makes no sense again for Jesus to say to go only to the law sheep of the house
of Israel if indeed his whole focus in this gospel was to gather in all the nations.
Again, this clashes completely with what he tells them elsewhere to go to Samaria and
the ends of the land.
Unless there was a reason why they were going there, and that reason is to gather the elect.
So yes, they were going to the foreign nations, they were going to the region of Samaria,
but they were going there for a specific reason and that was to gather the elect, whom, you
guessed it, are the law sheep of the house of Israel that he tells them to go to specifically
and preach that the kingdom of heaven is at hand.
This story is kind of perfect, right?
If you look at it, and I know that, you know, the myth-vision guys and whatnot, they would
say it's not perfect.
There's a lot of contradictions, but that's nonsense.
That's just not true.
The story is actually rather perfect and it does kind of blend and fit together pretty nicely.
What you just said is one of the most insanely idiotic things I have ever heard.
At no point in your rambling, incoherent response were you even close to anything that could
be considered a rational thought.
One in this room is now dumber for having listened to it.
I award you no points and may God have mercy on your soul.
Welcome to Myth-Vision Podcast.
I had to have fun with the intro there.
So Dr. Carrier, welcome, man.
Well, thanks for having me on again.
Thank you.
I hope you had a little laugh there.
I must say up front.
So anyone who's watching this, some of that stuff was taken out of the context in which
they were said.
However, it is interesting, like, for example, we've been around for a long time.
I owe just look at the Black Hebrew Israelites.
It's like, whoa, he literally said that.
But I kind of jacked it out of the context of what he was talking about.
He literally does believe that Matthew 10, five through six, was Jesus saying, look,
go to Samaria, go to the Gentile areas, but only search for the lost children of God,
the lost sheep of the house of Israel in those places.
Doesn't the text say, don't go to those places?
Yes, this is common.
Like this is what Christian apologists always do, right?
Is try to get the text to say the exact opposite of what it actually says.
And you could point out like, like, well, yeah, if if someone who believed what you
believe wrote that text, that's not what they would have written.
They would have written like you're basically you're claiming to be a better
writer, a vastly clearer explainer of things than the text that you're claiming is perfect.
I must I must admit to be fair, because goodness gracious,
we got to be very careful what we say on this episode.
It matters. Everything that we say matters because a magnifying glass is going to come
after the show. Oh, and I'm not engaging anymore.
I just say, you know, it is going to happen, though.
A magnifying glass is going to happen.
And that that last the good clip that you threw in there about the we're all
dumber for having heard it.
That's how you feel when you engage with them in any sense.
And that's what happened when I did my blog article for people who are watching
this, I'm sure there'll be a link where I thoroughly show why they're wrong,
basically, and they're just worse than wrong, like they're just bonkers wrong.
And then, of course, they threw up thousands and thousands and thousands
of words in rebuttal, like in the comments section, you just see just this
word wall after word wall after word wall, none of it, nothing they said
after thousands and thousands of words actually responded to any of the actual
arguments I made in the article.
Wow. And I kept telling them, like, you're still haven't responded to my article.
You're just reasserting the things that I refuted.
And then they just keep doing it, keep doing it.
And this this is indicative of insanity.
Like, I mean, and I don't mean this like flippantly or hyperbolically.
I mean, this is mental illness, right?
This is someone who when you're presented with evidence, it's very clear
against your thesis.
And then you write thousands of words in rebuttal and never mention that evidence,
never respond to it.
And you do this again and again after being told, like, why don't you
respond to the evidence I presented?
And then they give you a word wall and it's this crazy word wall.
Just be random non sequiturs, all of these kinds of assertions.
It's like Ted Kaczynski's, you know, notebook, like it's just madness.
And at that point, you after a certain point, like you realize, like, oh,
I'm I'm having a conversation with a crazy person.
This is not you can't have a sane, rational conversation with this person.
So there's no point in continuing.
And and there's aspects of this that are that I run into a lot, right?
So, like, I've run into this kind of mental illness before flat earthers
exhibit it. There's all kinds of different sorts of madness as delusions
that people defend with these things.
And they behave. There's a lot of similar common behaviors.
I mean, one is the word wall tactic, throwing up a thousand claims, just assertions.
There's no real evidence presented.
And then claiming that if you don't debunk every single one of those thousand
claims that they've won the argument, right?
Like, that's not how logic works at all.
And it's this kind of and they do it on purpose.
I mean, one is if they can keep you engaged, then they can feel like they
they have a view that's worth taking seriously and it pumps their ego.
If you ignore them and you notice this, you noted this to me before
that they start acting like bullies.
They ask like bullies and braggarts and children.
They get smarmy and insulting and arrogant, very immature
in like nothing scholarly about them at all.
And that that is also a common sign.
That's not just the I.O. people as anyone who has these kinds of conspiracy
theory or any kind of like delusional view of the world.
When when there's pushback against that, or when people say like,
this is just crazy, I'm not going to engage with you anymore.
They become childish like this.
And then again, and then insist that they've completely destroyed you
with their refutations and so on.
When there's no logical, it's just not the series of non sequiturs
and circular arguments.
There's no logical case being made by them for their view.
And they're in the consistent ignoring of the rebuttal, right?
The actual evidence against them.
So my advice for people is that once you catch people acting this way,
you should stop engaging all together and just don't don't be goaded
by their behavior, their arrogance and their.
You to everybody else, and they'll claim victory and the claim that they've
been proved right and that you ran away like a coward, yada, yada, yada.
No, ignore that because that's that's the childish reaction to having been
refuted and having no response to the refugee.
Let me let me get everybody on track for a second.
This is a good point you're bringing up.
What we're discussing right now is a theory called Israel only for those
who do not know, I'd like to have you, of course, explain what you think it is.
And I want you to understand that.
What you think it is.
And I want you to say.
And here's why I want you to say it for anyone who's watching,
which Israel only people will see this.
Yeah, of course.
They're going to make sure that you properly explain what they believe
about their theory because you don't understand it.
A lot of them will say, yeah, that in and of itself, that's reasonable.
Right. It is.
It is that that's part of the Dennett theory or the Dennett model of debate
is actually it's a good model to say like you make a case.
And then what you should have, what the next step that should occur
is that your opponent should restate to you what your case is in their own words.
And then you can confirm. Yes, that's correct.
So you at least know you're talking about the same thing before you proceed.
That's a sound procedure.
But what they do is different.
They'll nitpick any little weird word you use,
reinterpret it in a way you didn't mean and say, you got it all wrong.
So they're hyper, it's kind of like an abusive partner.
Like they really like hyper specifically picking on every little thing,
trying to find some way to discredit you or let's say like,
you don't know what you're talking about, like they're specifically looking for that.
It's because even when it doesn't exist,
so even Nelson created a chart, a graph with bubbles showing an overlap
between Israel and Judah, because they have the two house theory.
And they're pretty much he goes and actually puts Greek words,
which they don't read or understand Greek at all.
And they didn't like the chart.
Now, only one or two of the people that were actually pretty kind
that that do like me were like, hey, that's a really good chart.
It gave me the idea that I would like to do it.
I just wouldn't put the Greek words there.
I put it in English because they don't know Greek.
And so we were looking for criticisms
and they weren't even willing to like give us a thumbs up and say it was good and that.
But then their buddies do it, create a bubble chart,
like not nearly as complex and detailed and as beautiful, if you will.
And they start thumbs up in it, bro, they have fake accounts, some of them.
Oh, they stop it.
Oh, they hide behind fake accounts.
And then when you block their one account, they want to still harass you
and engage you, so they create another account to pretend they're not that person.
And then that I didn't know.
And that actually that ticks another box.
That is another very typical behavior of people who have this particular
delusional disorder and who fixate on some sort of weird belief like this.
Whether it's flat earthers or Iowars, they do the exact same.
They engage in the same behavior.
And when you see that happen, that's that's really good.
And once you start ticking these boxes and you know you're dealing
with someone who's not mentally well, who can't have a sane and rational argument
with you and you shouldn't try like you, you're not a therapist.
You can't like psychologically fix these people.
Like there's nothing you can do.
All you can do is you can communicate with the sane public
and prevent the public from being bamboozled and suckered by them and misled by them.
So you can you can reeducate.
Now, sane people will see we'll look at both sides and say, oh, oh, OK.
Yeah, they don't really have a sound argument, right?
So like like so sane people you can get to and there's more of them
and they're more important.
So that's you're really writing and doing shows like this for the general public
to not be snookered by flat earthers if we're doing a flat earther show.
Or in this case, we're doing I.O.
It's the same kind of thing.
Well, I want to say also I'm doing this for those who might not be educated
enough on knowing proper methodology that are honest seekers
and they're kind of swindled by the theory.
That's what those are.
Those are people who are not who are not delusional.
They're not lost in the mental illness.
They're but they can be easily tricked by it.
Right. If they don't, if they don't, if they don't know these things, right?
If they are and it can be hard to do like not everybody can read Ancient Greek, right?
Like, so how do you how do you fact check these things?
How do you know that Ephesians two does not have the word mankind in it?
Right. Right.
It's because one Bible translation put that English word in there.
It's not in the text.
But there's how would you know this, right?
Like, so there's it's important to get some expert perspective on this.
And certainly, if you if you find like, if you see their argument, go,
oh, wow, that looks gosh, the way they organize it, it looks pretty convincing.
Does that hold up?
Then you need to see you have me get the advice to an expert.
Like, does this really hold up?
That's why I do sometimes it can.
But sometimes these new controversial theories can hold up.
But this one doesn't.
And when you start digging in it, like, it's so clearly false.
Like, it's not even it's not even a version of this that would at least fit the evidence,
but wouldn't be proved thereby, but wouldn't be disproved thereby.
But I owe people would not like it because it wouldn't be the exact version
of the theory that they want to defend, which I guess we should get to, right?
We should. Yeah. So first, a few things, a few things.
Number one, Jason Dacosta, the guy that I just played the recording from.
I talk to Iowers often, OK, and they're not those guys,
but they're guys who follow those guys.
Well, a buddy of mine named Rob Shannon, I called him and said,
dude, this what he just said about Matthew 10, 5 through 6
is literally the most contradictory thing I've ever heard.
Has he not heard Jew first than the Greek or Jew first than the Gentile, right?
Like first to the Jew, then to the Gentile.
And that's what Matthew is clearly indicating.
This is for the Jews.
This is the law sheep of the House of Israel are Jews.
And so anyway, he did a video yesterday morning.
Now, mind you, I know a little bit of background
that isn't portrayed on his video where he was cussing at Rob,
like not necessarily cursing him out, maybe, but he's like, you're an idiot.
No, what I'm saying is true because he knows this is a foundational text.
This is their go to text when they argue with Christians for their theory.
And now he's flipped it to saying, OK, I'll admit, these are Jews.
But before, if you notice the logic,
what he's trying to say is the Samaritans and the Gentiles
are really also the law sheep of the House of Israel,
because they have to have Gentiles be Israelites.
Yeah. So the theory is true.
Let's get specific. Some of them.
Right. The eye of the eye of you is not that every living person
happens to be a descendant of an Israelite,
which that actually would be a much more plausible theory for them to defend
because because that would be consistent with the evidence, right?
In a way that I mean, Paul didn't believe that.
We can prove Paul didn't believe that.
Paul did not believe that the Gentiles he was converting
were biologically descended from Israelite.
So he says that explicitly multiple times.
So so the IO thesis is completely a few to thereby.
But for the audience to understand here, let's rewind a little bit.
Yeah. The IO Israel only, we call it IO for short.
Their view, it has like many crazy theories,
has like a zillion steps in it that often seem disconnected.
But but the the main gist or the main premise of it
is that whenever the New Testament, the whole New Testament,
incidentally, this will get to that, that's not this is not a logical way
to read the New Testament, but the whole New Testament,
whenever it says that Gentiles are being converted to Christianity,
what it means is the only Gentiles who are coming into Christianity
are the Gentiles who just happened somehow to be physically,
biologically descended from the tribes of Israel
that were scattered and lost after in the in the exile.
Yeah. Right. So way back in the, you know, when the first temple was destroyed,
there were 12 tribes of Israel, only two remains in Judea,
the Benjaminites and the Judahites.
And those are the ones we call or ones that I always call the Jews.
Whenever the word Jew appears, they mean they they think it means only Benjaminites
and and Judahites.
There's some mass man fallacies going on here.
But the other 10 tribes, most people at the time believe that they were gone.
They lost and don't exist anymore.
Or if they did, they weren't practicing Jews.
And there are a few might have believed that there were practicing Jews
of those last tribes somewhere in the exile.
But and we'll get to the distinction between practicing and non practicing.
And the the scholarly use of the word Jew
and the IO use of the word Jew don't exactly line up.
But their idea is that that so there's only descendants of Israel get salvation.
The New Testament, they claim is completely clear on this and no one else gets salvation.
And salvation only is relevant until the destruction of the temple.
For some reason, that's hand wave, hand wave, it's not entirely clear.
But when the when the temple is destroyed,
that ended the whole apocalyptic timetable for God.
There's no one's under no one's subject to the Torah law any more ever since.
If you're descended from an Israelite and still around after that point,
you're just screwed, you weren't part of the elect.
And and there's no that's it.
It's terminated.
So Christians today are essentially heretics who will not get salvation
because there's nothing available then that all ended in 70 AD.
It was only descendants of Israelites who even got a chance to get it.
Anyway, and that's this is kind of I might be fudging around the edges of it.
That's roughly the IO thesis, right?
Is this this idea and it's used as kind of a a hammer to like beat up Christians
and say, oh, your religion is false.
That means Jews are also wrong, too.
So it's not, of course, yeah, they call Christians, faux Christianity.
Yeah, but they don't do is they might as well be consistent and say they're faux Jews as well.
Jews don't know what they're talking about either.
Like nobody knows what they're talking about, but them.
Yeah. And this this gets to OK.
This this brings us to the three things that are wrong with IO
and these the decisive things that are fatal to IO that it can't survive these facts.
And the first is what you just noted, like as I point out, like in my article,
there are 15 million Jews and still around, right,
who believe that they're still subject to the Torah law.
There are there are a much smaller number who are extremely literal about that, right?
You know, the Hasidics and so on, who still adhere to still they still circumcise.
They still follow all the Torah covenant rules and stuff.
So in what way are they not under the law?
Like, like, right, like that's and I think this is where the IO crowd doesn't understand history
is that they have this contradictory view.
So they're thinking that the reason the descendants of Israel are the only ones who need salvation
is that they are somehow under the covenant
because of some ancestor five, six, seven, eight generations ago was under the covenant.
So therefore, somehow they still are as well.
And so they're the ones who need salvation.
They need salvation from the covenant.
This isn't how salvation works back then.
It's not the point of salvation.
But anyway, that's the second pillar.
But the first pillar is this idea that if you were not circumcised,
it doesn't matter who you were born to.
It doesn't matter who your mom was.
It doesn't matter if you have Jewish heritage or Israelite heritage does not matter.
Did not matter.
If you weren't circumcised and did not submit to the covenant and were not following Torah,
you were not under the law, period.
So their lost Israelites don't need salvation.
They're not under the law.
They didn't submit.
They didn't get circumcised.
They're not following Torah law.
So they're not subject to the law.
There isn't any logical sense in which being born,
especially several generations removed with no circumcision,
no submission to the covenant that would still be subject to it.
That that's illogical.
No, no one back then, Jew, Gentile, anyone would have thought that made any sense.
But somehow this is in the mind of the Israel only movement
that somehow they're simultaneously not under the law and under the law.
And this contradiction is irreconcilable.
It doesn't make any sense.
If the Israelites had stopped circumcising and stopped submitting to the covenant,
they weren't done to the covenant.
No agreement. No agreement.
That's it. Right.
They don't. They're not making an agreement with God.
They're not subject to that agreement at that point.
They're equivalent. Yeah.
So it's this inherent contradiction in Iowa.
It doesn't make any sense.
There's no reason to save the lost Israelites.
There are there are as there is unneeding of saver
being saved as non Israelites, according to the Iologian.
So that's the first thing.
And this idea that the covenant was an agreement you entered into with God.
This is fundamental.
You have to enter into the agreement.
Circumcision was believed fundamental.
This is why Paul has to argue so vehemently
that somehow you can get an agreement with God without circumcision.
He struggles with this.
He's really trying to force people to believe it.
Jews are like, I don't know, just says in the Bible
that you got to be circumcised to have an agreement with God.
Right. And so this whole this this idea that you have to actually join the agreement.
And there are certain rules and rituals that initiate you into that agreement.
And even Paul, he didn't reject this basic principle.
He's selling the same principle.
He's just saying there's a new agreement you can enter into
so you can get the same deal with God, but with less stuff.
Like you don't have to mutilate your penis.
Right. Yeah. So it's it.
Well, literally, it's through adoption into Israel.
You get adopted and you become basically an honorary Israelite.
You know, in a more spiritually real sense to Paul, but it's still
it's an it's not biological Israel.
You're not through flesh is not being transformed in Israelite flesh.
You don't have to have a descendancy from Israel.
You can be adopted in that.
That's Paul says this repeatedly.
But the first problem I'm going to get to is this deal that
that if you're not under the covenant, you're not under the covenant.
So the whole Iothecis crumbles on this premise that the lost
Israelites who weren't under the covenant didn't need salvation.
That there's no reason for them to be singled out for salvation
and not anyone else.
The only thing I could think of them trying to say in response
would be the simple fact that while there are promises
that God says he's going to bring them back, right?
That's that's the idea.
So now Yahweh is kind of held accountable in their view.
Yeah, if that were the thesis, right, you could say, well, God promised
he would go get their children.
Right. But that doesn't fit with the logic that
so the Iothecis depends on this logic that you have to be saved.
You need salvation from the law, but they're not under the law.
So so it would be different if their thesis was, oh, yeah, they're not under the law.
They don't need to be saved from the law.
But but God did promise he'd get them, right?
He'd make good on it, right?
That would be a more logical thesis.
And this gets us to the second pillar that crumbles, I.O.,
which is that salvation is not salvation from sin.
Like, I don't know where they get this.
It took me a while to even realize that they didn't understand
that salvation was salvation from death.
I mean, this is this is the entirety of Judaism and the entirety of even
Gentile sage occult that the reason that Christianity became popular
is it was say it was selling salvation from death.
Paul repeatedly says, like, if we're not we're not going to be resurrected
who cares about sinning? Sin all you want.
You drink and be merry.
He literally says it's if you're going to die and stay dead,
like there's sin doesn't mean anything.
It doesn't do anything to us. Who cares, right?
And so so for them, salvation from death is fundamental.
And even there were sects of Judaism that didn't see it this way,
like the Sadducees, for instance, didn't they believed in mortality.
They didn't they believed that salvation was for Israel
as a nation, not for individual people, right?
So like God made this promise that he would make Israel
literally the physical, geographic Israel a paradise for their future children.
And so the Sadducees, their view was that you follow the law
to not anger God so that he would make good on the promise to their kids, right?
So for them, it's salvation for the nation,
but it's still salvation from death, from death of the nation, right?
The death of their their children's line and stuff like that.
It's not personal salvation in the case of the Sadducees.
Now, the Pharisees said that the Sadducees are damned
because they deny resurrection because they believe they're immortal
or they believe they're mortal.
And so they're not going to get saved. God's not going to resurrect them.
So the Pharisees and the majority of Jewish sects
were very apocalyptic and very resurrection cultish.
So their their view was that you would gain salvation
in the sense that you personally will rise from the dead and live forever in paradise.
And that is the salvation that was crucial.
That's you follow the Torah to get that deal.
The Torah law that you subscribe to is to get immortality.
It's all for immortality.
It's for you to live forever and escape death.
And that's what most of Judaism was about.
And certainly what Paul's Judaism was about, Paul and the whole New Testament.
And it's all about we're selling salvation from death.
If you want to live forever, here's how you can do it, right?
And so there's different books in the New Testament
have different ideas about how you can get this salvation.
But but this is fundamental salvation from death.
Even when it says to save you from your sins,
all that means is it's your sins that are going to keep you dead.
So we have to save you if we have to cleanse you of your sins
so that you can be resurrected and live forever.
It's an instrumental, not a consequence, right?
So it's an instrumental means to get the salvation you really want,
which is salvation from death.
So so sin is just an instrument
to the guts and the way of the actual salvation that people want.
Now, once you realize that it's salvation from death,
that this is all about the IO thesis doesn't make any sense, right?
Because, well, at least it's it's
if if they were saying that only
only descendants of Israelites get to live forever in paradise,
which is kind of what I guess what their their view is.
And the God only depends on which of them.
And it's done.
Everybody else is screwed and they're going to die and stay dead forever.
That that would let's, you know, that would at least make sense.
But it doesn't make sense of what Paul and other things in the New Testament are doing.
And like when we saw you saw in the intro, the contradiction between Matthew and Luke.
Luke is promoting a Gentile church.
He's saying, hey, let's offer this salvation to everybody.
Everybody can get resurrected.
Everybody can get join the agreement with God.
This new agreement we have that we've we've given instructions from Jesus.
We've got this new agreement we can sell you.
And so Luke is arguing with Matthew.
Matthew says only basically the only practicing Jews get in.
So even when Matthew says preached to all nations,
in the sense, he's saying, go get the Judahites and Benjaminites
who are out there in the nations.
But also he's saying he's including Gentiles only in the sense that if they convert,
that's why he says not one jot or title of the law will go away until everything is ended.
And that's like Exodus 12 has a law that says that you can become a Jew
or you can become a Israelite and be saved.
Join in the Salvation Agreement with God.
Join in the court to our government.
Anybody can do it.
You don't have to be biologically descended from anybody.
And there's tons of examples.
We have Fila writes about it, Josephus writes about it.
We have the Talmud, the Mishnah.
We have examples in the Old Testament of people converting to Judaism
for this purpose and anybody could do it.
So Matthew's sect is saying that you have to submit to the old covenant
to get the salvation that Jesus offers you.
All the other or not all the other many of the other books of the Bible, Luke and Mark
in particular are selling it differently.
This thing you don't have to convert to Judaism.
This is Paul's view.
You don't have to convert to Judaism.
You can spiritually be adopted into Israel and follow sort of a more
vaguer law to get in to get the deal.
And so so it's all about how do we rescue people from death?
And Paul saw it as we can go rescue a buddy or everybody God has chosen.
There are some people that God has decided he's never going to say, right?
So but you see this in Paul like in nine and Romans nine and Romans 11.
He's very explicit.
He says these are not.
Yes, the Gentiles are not biologically descended from Israelites,
but you can spiritually be grafted in, you know,
if you come from another tree than the Israelite tree,
but you can be grafted into that tree and lost Israelites.
Also, he says, can be grafted back into the same tree.
They were broken off from, but he very clearly distinguishes these two groups.
The Gentiles who are converting are new people.
They're not broken off people who are returning.
And and so and that's the third pillar.
So Romans nine and Romans 11 are decisive IO killing chapters
when you read them all in context.
And it was IO people will just they'll quote from those chapters
and never mention the verses that I point out where Paul says
exactly the opposite of what they're saying repeatedly in comments.
Like they just had word wall after word wall after word wall,
never addressed the passages that I quote in the exact same chapters
that they're quoting in Romans nine and Romans 11.
They're very clear, very clear, like unmistakably clear.
What they do is they run to the Old Testament context.
They use what Hosea literally meant in Hosea's day to mean what Paul meant.
And I'm finding out more and more.
It's like they've never heard of Christian apologists
taking verses out of context, right?
The entirety of Christianity is built on taking verses out of context, right?
So like like the Virgin birth.
That Isaiah passage was not about a virgin birth.
It wasn't about the future.
It was about a birth in his own day.
So that's taken completely out of context to invent a virgin birth, right?
The Isaiah 52 and 53.
That's about Cyrus the Great resurrecting the nation of Israel, right?
It was not about a future Messiah, but later Jewish sects and Christianity
reads it all about, oh, it's a future Messiah.
It's talking about a particular individual is talking about Jesus
reading it out of context, right?
So they almost the entirety.
And this was actually a systematic thing in Judaism.
It's called Peshir.
And we have tons of examples from the Dead Sea Scrolls predating Christianity.
And the Dead Sea sect is very similar to Christianity
in the sense that Christianity clearly grew out of a Dead Sea sect
or a Dead Sea like sect, like some sect like that.
And they were wild about Peshir, where they would take random verses
of the of the Old Testament.
It wasn't called the Old Testament then, but the random verses of scripture.
Put them all together and invent a new scripture.
It was kind of a hidden message that God was secretly hiding
like a cipher inside the Bible.
And they would completely change the meaning of all the verses
and from the original context, put them in a new context and re
imagine what the text meant, which is, of course, exactly what I.O. does.
And and that's how they invented Christianity.
Christianity was invented by this, basically reading the whole Bible
out of context, inventing a collection of verses that are randomly picked
from various places and putting them together and creating a new weird
scripture that was never written originally, right?
Christianity is caused by taking verses out of context
through the Peshir technique.
The whole Peshir technique is is taking verses out of context.
Right. Literally what it is.
So we call that recontextual, always means the same thing
that the original verse meant.
It's like a weird blindness.
It's like, do you not know that the entirety of what Paul is doing
is taking verses out of context?
That's all Christianity did was take verses out of context
to create and construct this new religion.
So it's this kind of naivety at sort of blindness
to what actually goes on in the construction of religious innovation,
particularly in the scriptural history is another example
of kind of how they're just not on it in terms of understanding
how these things happened.
So you brought up Matthew and we've got I think it's good to just touch
on some example here, because I know you're dealing with pillars
and foundation stuff.
And I want those who are watching understand like what you're doing
is actually showing the the foundation in which the house is built on.
But, you know, I'm all worried about like, look at this ornament
over here on the house and check out the shingle on the roof
and the hole in the room.
You're like, dude, the ground in which this things on is so shaky.
Like I want to start there.
But I guess one of the things you heard in the intro was you guys
think it's a contradictory or that these books don't line up.
It's a perfect story.
And this is the thing they say and it drives me nuts
because the more I read, the more I'm like, oh, my gosh,
how can you not see that Mark, Matthew and Luke are not on the same page?
In fact, Luke's more on page with Mark than Matthew.
But Matthew's correcting Mark.
And so, you know, I was going to pull charts up.
We don't have time for that.
But in Mark, you have the Syrophoenician woman in Matthew.
She's now a Canaanite woman.
And he adds this whole business about being only from the lost tribes
of the House of Israel or the lost sheep of the House of Israel in Matthew.
But then Luke does this business and says in the same exact like
people don't realize I don't think they can like I don't know if they know this.
But the Iowa specifically that you can parallel the Gospels
exactly where they locate, you know, each scene.
And this scene gets cut almost.
The only thing that's there in Luke is when I'll go
heal people and cast out demons and that they skip the whole business
about the lost sheep.
They skip the whole racism tendencies of like or xenophobia, if you will,
saying, well, she's a finer Syrophoenician woman or she's a Canaanite woman.
They don't even do that.
And so showing that Luke is opening this up universalistically, if you will,
if that's even a term I can use to say, hey, it's not limited to Jews
in this movement and the Matthew and Gospel seems to be centrally focused
on Jew only till the end of the Gospel when he finally goes now,
go and baptize in all the nations at the end.
And I wonder if that was tacked on or something, but either way, I don't know.
So well, Matthew has the final denouement after the resurrection of Jesus,
where Jesus does say, yes, now you've done all you can in Judea, now go forth.
And that's what I was talking about, like go forth and get the practicing Jews
in other nations and, you know, to a lesser extent, converts.
I mean, that these are included in the same concept of anybody who will convert
to Judaism, anyone who elects to be saved can either convert or already
who's already practicing, you can just join up.
So so it's the same.
Those are the same group in their mindset.
Like anybody who joins, go find them or anybody God has elected to join,
go find them. But Matthew means by converts.
He's not talking about go, you know, convert Gentiles
without them converting the Judaism that Matthew specifically rewrote Mark.
It's important to note that Matthew,
these these books did not originally have these names, right?
They were not, they were just called, they were just the Gospel.
They did not have a name attached to them originally.
The names got assigned when they got collected together
in the mid second century into a sort of proto canon.
But but originally, it was just you had the Gospel.
When Mark wrote, he just wrote the Gospel.
Matthew didn't like this Gospel or the whoever we're talking about, whoever
Matthew was, whoever is later gets named Matthew.
That community, the community of Jewish Christians are like, whoa, we don't like this.
This is a propoline view where you can have Gentiles come in without converting
to Judaism. No, we're going to we're going to judify this.
We're going to judyize it.
And so they just rewrote it and then sold it as the Gospel.
That they're really they're literally trying to claim
that that Mark is the forgery and that theirs is the original, right?
So like when you see how Matthew transforms Mark or adds to Mark,
Matthew, whoever wrote that is trying to pass their version off as the original
Gospel in as a way of rebutting and kind of eliminating,
trying to get rid of Mark.
So people will think, oh, this is the fake one.
And let's take the real one.
And then, of course, Luke comes along, says, no, no, no, no, you're both right.
Here's how you.
But really, you know, let's show you how they're how you're both right.
You can both get along.
And, you know, so that's how the synoptic sequence goes.
And so Luke rewrites Matthew and Mark.
Now, Luke at least admits that he is getting his stuff from previous Gospels,
meaning Mark and Matthew.
He says that in his preface is like, I'm going to tell you how it like it really is.
And yeah, I have some sources.
I'm using these other Gospels.
So he's not doing what Matthew did.
He's not trying to pass his gospel off as the original true gospel.
That's what Matthew was trying to do.
He was trying to pull a con on people.
But 90 percent of Mark isn't Matthew 90 percent or something like there's a high,
high number of people don't even realize this.
We know this in light of the evidence that you can take the gospel of Mark
and literally like put it inside Matthew and see Matthew change it.
So when you when you make a statement that you myth,
vision, guys are really ridiculous for thinking there's contradictions.
Anyone with eyes can take a not even a matter on purpose.
Yes, like like Matthew is deliberately contradicting Mark.
When Matthew originally wrote, they were not in the same.
These were conflicting, competing sects.
So these are boring documents.
So when when the when the later sect brought brought them together,
they brought them together to try and unify these churches
because they knew they could sell what I owe does is oh, we can.
We can explain all the contradictions away.
But it's there's mystical legs of Jesus.
We got it. Don't worry. They make sense.
Don't you know, we don't worry about it.
So like it's that same kind of Christian apologetic tactic.
It was a political reason they brought them together to try and unify these
churches and get them together against common enemies, which were, for example,
the Martianites and and the Montanists and certain other sects of Christianity.
So so so they were unified.
But when they were originally written,
they were never intended to be in the same book as a coherent collection of text.
They were originally written against each other.
And like John is also written against Luke.
There's a lot in John that is deliberately arguing against Luke.
John did not like the Gospel of Luke.
He really didn't. And so he so you can see this in the Lazarus story,
the way Luke portrays Lazarus as a fictional character in a story that Jesus tells.
John converts Lazarus into a real person and his version of the history that he
created completely repudiates the message of the original Lazarus parable in Luke.
So John's Lazarus story is a refutation of Luke's Lazarus parable.
And this is how they're like arguing with each other.
They were never originally intended to be collected together like this.
So to try and like force them to fit.
Yeah, that's what the second century Christians, the so-called faux Christians,
according to IO, that's what the faux Christians thought they could do is take
all these contradictory texts together and make up excuses for how they harmonize.
Now, sometimes they actually try to physically harmonize them.
I don't know if you know how many cases we have where they have actual manuscripts
that try to edit Matthew or Luke or whatever to get them to agree with each other.
Like we have we have we have manuscripts of Matthew
that take the blood and water scene from John and insert it into Matthew
to try and pass it off as originally a math and text.
We have lots of these tons.
This is another problem IO forgets is that we have a lot of meddling with the documents.
I don't even know they know all faux Christians that creates
creates problems for for interpreting these things.
But that's a whole other complicated side story.
But if you get to the story of the nations woman,
this is a good example where they're reading out of context.
They're not reading the whole story.
And that's these myths were written for the purpose of you reading the whole story.
You cannot take verses out of context.
You have to because the whole story is the point, right?
Like if you if you take pieces out,
you're you're destroying the author's original message.
And when you read the whole story, I've got to say the whole story is in that book.
OK, not the twenty seven combined canon.
The book you're reading called Matthew, what we call Matthew, Mark, Luke.
That is the story.
Don't run to John to fix.
Right. To fix.
That is what they do every time.
Yeah, yeah, that's a Christian apologetic tactic, too.
Right. Historians will do that.
But they'll do that to try and argue that there's a historical,
common historical event behind these myths.
They'll admit that they're myths and that the authors are coloring and changing things.
But they'll try to find a common thing.
But this is not what the I.O. does.
They're not trying to reconstruct some historical original gospel.
They're taking everything is literally true and literally intentionally coherent
as if all written by the same person for the same purpose,
which is how Christian fundamentalists act.
It's not how real scholars act.
That it's not a logical methodology, but to go back to the Syrophoenician
when you read the whole story, it's very clear that this is unparable,
featuring Jesus, giving character about how Jesus must preach to the Jews first.
The Torah observant Jews who were faithful to God.
And then, you know, even though, like, oh, everybody's not Jewish,
is as bad as dogs or whatever.
But it ends with like, well, actually, your faith can save you, right?
Like, it's like, OK, Jews first, because this is basically a parable
about Jews first, Gentiles later.
And and it's all about like, if you have enough faith,
you can be brought into the House of Israel.
So this is this is this parable is sort of a myth
that is representing Paul's teaching about how you can be brought in through faith, right?
And now, of course, Matthew changes it to like really denigrate Gentiles and say,
no, if you don't convert, you're not in.
It doesn't say that explicitly.
But Matthew altered it to sort of get rid of this Pauline element.
And Luke came along and put it back in, right, in his own way.
So like, if you don't understand the history of how these documents were constructed,
how they're arguing against each other, how they're using mythology to convey ideas,
you're not going to understand the Bible.
And I think this is the biggest problem with amateur exegesis, like the IO movement,
is that they're not taking seriously the skills and tools and knowledge
that we've built over hundreds of years about how to correctly understand ancient
documents, their history, their, their rhetoric, their structure,
the literary meaning of them.
They just toss out everything we've learned about how to understand texts
and just invent their own wild, crazy methodology to get the text to say
things they don't say, basically.
And that's frustrating.
That's common, even among Christian apologists and stuff,
but at least same people who use these methods will acknowledge that these things
that I'm saying and will say, well, God inspired the text.
So my methodology is fine.
I get what you're saying about the history stuff, but, you know, God, et cetera.
But I owe people don't say no, no, God made sure the text was perfect.
And this is all a message from God.
And you have to like read between the lines to understand God's message
through these prophets that wrote these books.
I don't see that kind of rhetoric coming from the IO movement generally.
No, they see that's the thing.
I want to go ahead and tell everybody while we're at this far end of the episode.
Make sure you guys go into the description.
You guys check out Dr.
Carrier's patron.
I hired him for a task.
Me, well, Mithigen fans and myself contributed to have him spend,
you know, precious time and energy to investigate this theory,
which usually he wouldn't take up a task like this.
But I say that to say, if, you know,
time is money and this is a way in which you're going to put your time in it.
You know, a man's worth his wages.
If there's anything Dr.
Price says he believes that the Bible is true is that a man is worth his wages.
And I do think it was valuable to have you look into this,
especially helping me out.
It helped me take serious some of the stuff.
But the majority of the I.O.
proponents that I engage call themselves ancient Israel only now.
They don't go by I.O.
They go A.I.O. now.
They just changed their name to ancient Israel.
But these guys.
When did they do that, by the way, recently?
Couple weeks, maybe to a month or so after my blog.
Maybe I've heard him do an episode.
Jason DeCosta was talking about a guy who mentioned A.I.O.
And they were like, you know what?
That sounds good. Let's go with it.
So I don't think it has any relation to the blog itself,
even though the blog really got people but hurt and upset.
So yeah, I understand why they would.
But it's interesting.
They would if they did that after my blog, that would be funny
because one of the points I make is, you know, there's still tons of Israelites around.
So they need to specify, oh, yeah, right.
Right. We just mean ancient Israelites.
All the other Israelites are screwed.
Fuck them. All right.
Is the theory of this.
But which I call the preterist.
They're their pre the I.O.
Preterist nightmare in my blog is like this idea that everybody's just doomed.
Sorry. So.
So it's not a bra or a universe.
Yeah. So this is important.
Full. Full preterism is the foundation.
It's one of those pillars because what you have is when I became a full preterist,
to give a little context for people, what is that?
Well, all prophecy was past tense fulfilled in the first century.
They said it was going to come soon.
Everyone thought it was about to happen.
Therefore it did.
And as a fundamentalist Christian who believed that Jesus was literally God in the flesh, God can't lie.
Jesus said the end was soon, that it was common, that all these things would happen.
And therefore they must have happened or he failed.
And I became a Christian full preterist because I was stuck with the dilemma.
Do I believe in the church and the consensus of what Christians say?
Or do I believe Jesus, his own words, according to the Gospels?
And what he said and I accept that.
So what one of the principal foundations to this is this death, if it ended in 70,
all right, according to most like 99 percent full preterist, death is spiritual and not physical.
So what they do is they run to Adam and Eve and they say.
In the day that you eat thereof, you will surely die.
God said, did they die that day?
Well, not literally.
Oh, so guess what?
Either you're calling God a liar, Mr.
Christian, which you cannot do that.
No, no, no.
Or they spiritually or covenantally died that day.
And the salvation later on, revelation and the New Testament is saving
Israel, according to I.O.
Because really, Adam, to some of them, their cosmology, Adam is Israel.
He's a metaphor.
Yeah, which is real.
But that's a whole nother.
We don't even have time.
How they use their theory as evidence to prove their theory.
Right.
Like they just there's no evidence for their theory, but they just say
they overlay their theory on any text and says, oh, well, look, it fits our theory.
Like, yeah, if you assume that it fits your theory, what they do is they use
anachronistic principles, right?
They see anachronisms of the law prior to the Mosaic law and Exodus.
And they go, well, how did Noah, what was clean and unclean?
Duh, it's symbolic of later.
It's a recapitulation of Israel's history during exile.
That's what they literally say, Adam to like Abraham.
And it's not all of them.
But anyway, death is not literal.
So if that's not literal, but in your preterism, this is a key point.
And when you were a preterist, you still believed you would be resurrected, right?
Like there would still be like you had eternal life coming.
Not not necessarily literally, physically.
In fact, there's a huge confusion within full preterism,
because, bro, there's so many versions of it.
Some people literally believe a literal rapture happened in seven, a literal.
Some people literally believe it already happened.
That's what you have to believe.
Certainly, if you're going to be a full preterist,
because Paul very clearly says we're going to be sucked into the sky.
Of course, he also says we're going to suck into the sky
and then death will no longer exist in the world.
You know, not just sucked into the sky,
but will will be transformed into superhuman bodies.
So it's basically Heaven's Gate cult, right?
Like we're going to get absorbed into these new bodies.
I'm not even joking, because Paul says that these bodies are waiting for us in heaven.
They're up in heaven already waiting, stored bodies waiting for us to go and have it.
Just like the heavens, Gators thought they thought they had bodies
waiting for them in the spaceship that was flying by.
And when they died, they would their consciousness would get transferred to that other body.
That's what Paul believed, essentially, is the same thing.
But yeah, you would have to believe, because Paul very clearly says
this is going to happen within my lifetime or near enough.
So and certainly, if you're going to vaguely say, like,
then you have a non-preterist views, like, well, maybe he meant at some point in the future.
But even if you've been a preterist one,
you have to believe that he meant that all the saved people
were were saved in, well, whenever 60, 70, 80, whatever,
they were literally suck to be transformed into superhumans and sucked into space.
And that's it.
So these Iowers, these are the Iow crowd that we're talking about.
They divorce their they don't ontologically believe this to be true.
They actually they divorce the reality of the text and say, it's a myth.
It's a story.
But in the story, it actually happened.
So they they're doing everything they can to keep their the principle or their
proposition true, even if they have to go to complete fiction.
So one of the things they say, oh, there's multiple diasporas in the first century,
Jewish and uncircumcised pagan Israelite diaspora.
Correct. Those are the Gentiles.
Then there's no evidence.
I should point out to the audience, there's no evidence for this.
Right. This is the I.O. assumption.
But yeah, go on.
Yeah. And they'll use stuff like second or fourth Maccabees to try and argue
that like some Jews, Israelites decided, well, I'm at the gymnasium
and they're laughing at my penis.
So let me put a let me get the reverse circumcision.
The epist, how do you call that thing?
The epistasy? It's like a big word or something.
But anyway, like they're they're it's like anything they can.
And I think the closest I came to engaging with them on a scholarly argument
was Staples, Dr. Jason Staples.
Yeah, that's a good point to bring that up because here we have a real scholar,
someone who actually fricking knows what they're doing, getting a PhD
at a major university supervisor, his dissertation supervisor is Bart Ehrman,
none other than right, who himself was a student of Bruce Metzger,
who was, you know, one of the world's most when he was live,
the world's most renowned textual critic of the Bible.
And and Bart Ehrman, like his his forte is textual analysis.
And he's as much a master of that as Metzger was, like that's his pedigree.
And so and so then you have, you know, Staples gets his dissertation done under Bart Ehrman.
And he himself said, like, I didn't find any evidence
that Paul thought that Gentiles were physical descendants of Israelites.
What I found and he has an entire massive dissertation that argues at length with proper scholarly methods,
properly actual evidence.
He doesn't ignore anything. He doesn't take anything out of context.
He shows it like Paul believed that you could be spiritually adopted and become an Israelite.
And so and so in in the extent that his dissertation is controversial,
it's just this idea that Paul thought that you joined Israel when you when he converted.
So you became an Israelite. I don't think that's that controversial, really.
I think that seems obvious what Paul actually thought was going on, right?
You would be adopted into the House of Israel.
And so but the point is like here you have someone who's devoted his entire high level PhD work
under a major, you know, prominent expert supervision,
publishes, he published both in journals, academic peer review journals,
he published, he finished his dissertation, which is as peer reviewed as anything can get.
Because you have an entire committee has to pass your dissertation through intense criticism.
You go through all of that.
And what comes out on the other end is not the IO thesis.
It's it's what I'm talking about, which is yeah.
So that's important to really call attention to these kinds of things
that you can see the difference, see the difference between real scholarship
and sort of this crazy crank stuff.
I have to say on Staples theory, because I'm not sure I'm convinced of any theory at the moment.
I'm very flexible in terms of research and open mind.
And I think that's a very good exercise for any student like me,
who's an amateur looking into this stuff.
But I will say it sounds like a logical argument for why church replacement theology
did come on the scene, because if he does grant Gentiles entrance
by their spiritual conversion without Torah observance,
you now know why Second Century Church, full of pagans,
are now saying we are the Israel of God.
What do you mean you're the Israel of God?
Well, someone laid the foundation work to this.
And what I want you to believe, I want you to believe.
Notice what book I picked up Bible.
OK, hint, hint, hint, get the buckets down in the description.
They want you to believe that the 27 New Testament books were pinned for biological Israelites.
While pagans who are entering the movement, these texts are being literally developed.
So Mr. Joe Pagan and Sally Sue Pagan that are entering this movement.
I'm writing an I O book that you worship and follow these texts and the God of this text.
But I'm launching this next Wednesday.
It'll be published.
It's really excluding you guys, but you're in our movement.
That's what they want you to believe.
And they don't even realize that dating does matter.
They don't get into dating, but they don't even allow this.
I mean, they they they hand wave it, right?
They say, oh, well, everything was published before 60 or whatever, right?
Like they they they just they just it's another example of using their theory
as evidence to prove their theories.
Like because their theory is true, dot, dot, dot,
therefore, the entire New Testament must have been written before 70 AD, dot, dot, dot.
Therefore, because the New Testament was everything was written before 70 AD,
that supports our theory.
Yes, this is how they argue that they never present any good evidence
or much less competent arguments for radically redating most of the New Testament.
Most of it is clearly post 70 AD.
And so anyway, yeah, so that's the kind of thing that we're talking about.
But but yeah, if you're talking about my book, Jesus from outer space,
which which just came out, it is awesome.
One of the things that I deal with in there is mythology
and how if you're going to read the texts of the Gospels in particular,
you need to look at you have to look at the Gospels being written in the context
they were in historically, like they're written in Greek for Greek reading audiences.
So what what what did those audiences believe about the world?
What did those audiences like?
How would they react to this text?
You can't just anachronistically say, well,
I think they would believe everything I think they should believe.
And so therefore, this confirms my theory.
And this is why the Iotheases doesn't make sense is because, you know,
if you're writing a text in Greek using the methods that were known at the time,
the the devices, the mythic devices, the literary structural devices and all this stuff.
When you look at it through the lens of people who would be reading these books at the time,
they would not get the Iotheases at all.
They would get the opposite of the Iotheases, especially by the first century.
I think, you know, real expert knowledge has to start from not anachronistic,
importing our modern ideas onto the ancient text.
We have to see the text from the way they would have seen it.
And that's what like I get to the titles.
My example of that is Jesus from outer space.
The first Christians did believe Jesus came from outer space.
That is if you don't think that if you think that sounds crazy,
look at how look at how I argue it and how I use evidence,
how I show that that is actually what the first Christians believe.
And you can compare the difference between how that is argued,
where you take the evidence to prove the theory rather than using the theory to prove the evidence,
to make the evidence fit your theory, right?
So if you want to see how competent arguments can challenge conventional views,
that's an example of how to do that.
But when you look at Israel only, they had to do everything asked backwards.
And it's not the proper way to actually promote a view like this.
We really want to come up with something that's challenging the consensus like this.
You need to be methodologically spot on, right?
You need to start with evidence.
That evidence needs to build and demonstrate your theory.
You have to have a lot of evidence or really strong evidence.
And you can't ignore evidence that goes against you, right?
So like there's a lot of methodological reality here that they're missing.
And people want to see what that looks like even in a colloquial text.
Like Jesus from outer space is written for a colloquial audience.
It's not the academic version, the peer reviewed version,
which is on the historicity of Jesus, which is mentioned in that book.
But even just doing it colloquially for an average everyday audience,
there are clear methodological differences between competent argumentation for a view
and this sort of wackadoo incompetent amateur argumentation.
And when you compare them, you really see it becomes very clear.
And that can help inoculate you against other people trying stunts like this.
This once you know, you can tell the difference between the structure.
You don't necessarily need to know how to read Greek.
You can look at the way they're arguing and say,
I can see the structure of this argument.
The structure of this argument is backwards.
It doesn't make logical sense.
I think anybody could do that.
Even an amateur can do that.
So you can, if you know what to look for, you can catch these sort of things.
And if there's any point where there's a premise,
some assertion they're making about a fact,
you're not sure whether it's true, then you can go to an expert and say,
okay, they're making this claim.
What evidence is there for and against that claim?
But there's a lot that even average everyday people can do to really spot crazy
and tell the difference between that and actual competent consensus challenging.
Dr. Carrier, one of the points they'll argue, an example,
they take ambiguous text and they anchor in ambiguity.
They look at John chapter, what is it, seven or nine?
I think it's seven, where he says, where will you go?
The Pharisees say among themselves, will he go to the to the Greek or to the diaspora
and teach among the Greeks?
Like they use that to say, look, they start with all of these other things.
They're presuppositions that build to it and go, well, who needed salvation?
Only those who were given the law, who was given the law?
Israel. Well, who's Israel?
Biological descendants of Abraham.
OK, so why is he going to go teach and save, if you will, among the Greeks?
Who the Greeks?
Well, they must be Israelites.
Why? Because God promised back in Hosea that he would scatter the Israelites
in one day among the nations.
He would bring them back from among the nations,
as if they would still be ethnically distinct.
So anyway, I just wanted to ask you your thoughts about that, maybe, because I, Stephen.
Notice that that's the key thing, right?
You just said there only only the Israelites need salvation.
This is a fundamental tenet of IO.
And this is one of the pillars that crumbles it.
Salvation with salvation from death.
Fucking everybody wants salvation from death.
That's why Christianity is so popular today, right?
Everybody wants to live forever.
That's why they want the text to mean a certain thing.
That's why Christians today interpret the text the way they do.
They want to live forever.
That's what it offers.
There's no salvation if you just molder in the grave
and they're just unconscious and cease to exist after you die.
So, and that was true then, as much as now, right?
So the idea that only Israelite needed, quote, unquote, salvation just isn't true.
Everybody needs salvation.
Everybody needs rescue from death.
So that pillar just, it's gone.
It crumbles.
So that IO cannot rest on that premise.
And that's the key thing.
That's one of the three.
And then the other is the idea that salvation,
no, that they always ignore Romans 9 and Romans 11
where Paul explicitly, just lays out explicitly,
that Gentiles coming in are not native Israelites.
That they're joining Israel anew.
They're not biologically descended.
And so they always ignore these passages.
They'll quote the chapters, but they'll ignore the verses
that say the opposite.
And that just destroys it.
I mean, Paul outright frickin' says the opposite of IO
and that's just it, right?
And so that's the second one.
And then the third one was the, if you're not under the law, right?
So their other thing is they're teaching the idea that these Israelites,
like you said, they're no longer practicing Jews.
They're no longer circumcised.
They're no longer following Torah.
If they were never under the law, they'd have nothing to be saved from.
Even in the IO understanding of salvation,
where they're saying you need to be saved from the law,
but if you're not under the law, you don't need salvation,
even according to IO.
So it's a self-contradictory principle there that just kills it.
So those are the three pillars that just knock out the Israel-only hypothesis.
It just doesn't survive those things.
And then everything else is just the random crazy
of how they really weirdly reinterpret verses,
take verses out of context,
or they somehow strangely think that Luke and Paul
are in the exact same historical context saying the exact same things as Hosea.
No.
You know, Hosea is talking about completely unrelated thing.
He doesn't know anything about what's coming up in Paul and Luke and stuff like that.
Paul and Luke are abusing Hosea to like make these arguments for their thing.
They're not agreeing with Hosea's agenda or context.
They only care, right?
They're doing pressure.
They're taking verses out of context, claiming that God had secret messages.
They're not the message.
They're hidden.
The message was hidden in the original context,
but there's a secret other meaning.
They're taking it as that.
And then, you know, Paul's whole argument is that when Hosea said that,
oh, no, he secretly meant,
this is what Paul would have said in person if you were to have.
That's exactly right.
God secretly meant non-Israelites would come in too.
And some would say, well, no, no, look, and here's like a rabbi would come.
No, no, look, the passage of Hosea says it's going to be,
no, it Israelites that were exiled are going to come back, right?
As well as the Israelites that left and they're going to rejoin.
He says, oh, no, no, that's what the text literally says.
But that was to trick the devil.
The real meaning is the meaning I'm telling you now, right?
That would have been the argument that you would have Paul with the rabbi over this.
And that's just how Christianity originated.
That's so good examples of this.
Carrier, you are 100 percent right because like I've pointed this out
in First Corinthians nine, Paul's arguing with the Corinthians and he's saying, you know,
what, only me and Barnabas don't get.
What did he say?
He pretty much is arguing about how the other pillars get to have like they get paid for the
compensated. They get they get a per diem basically.
Yes. And he's right.
He's pretty much arguing.
We don't want one.
But then in the end, he's like, oh, I don't want it anyways.
But really, he's why are you arguing it then if you didn't really want it?
But anyway, First Corinthians nine, he says in quotes, the law, ladies and gentlemen, hear this,
he says it is written, you shall not muzzle your oxen while it treads or while it's working.
Pretty much don't starve your oxen while it's, you know, tilling the ground for you because
it's working for you, right?
He says, does God care about oxen?
No, Paul says he's talking about us.
Yeah.
Tell me that's not Benny Hinn, guys.
That is the most like TV preacher stuff I've ever heard in the text of the New Testament.
So he is what we call recontextualizing.
Everything that he's doing in the context of the first century.
I talked to a weird.
This is what all Christian apologists have done since his day up till now, right?
Like, so anybody who thinks that this isn't what they're doing just hasn't been paying attention
to history at all versus making them mean things that they didn't originally mean.
And if you don't know that, you just you just aren't in the game, basically.
I wanted to mention I talked to Adi O'Fierre and Rosensfi.
I think I'm saying it correct, Rosensfi, the authors of the book, Goi.
And these are the leading experts in the field right now.
Oh, that'll be a great show.
It really will, especially reading their work is amazing.
They kind of get like like real experts like that on obscure subjects that people would
never otherwise your audience and people in general would never hear about.
That's a great mission.
I love that you guys.
Thank you.
Yeah, it's a it's a passion of mine to try and like explore these options.
And I got to thank the IO guys for creating the curiosity and kind of the competition.
You know, it's kind of competitive.
But it is.
It makes me go, OK, I need to know this.
I need to figure this out.
If these things come up, like how did everybody get it wrong with these guys?
So yeah, I asked these guys and in their book, we're going to be doing a two part series on this.
You see an evolution.
And what I think happens often with fundamentalist minded folks
is they find a passage that clearly presents like exogamy.
OK, for those who don't know that is not marrying outside of your clan, your tribe, your people.
And Ezra and Nehemiah are absolute for the idea of divorcing your foreign wives.
So they find these places that are clearly not cool with foreigners.
But here's what they miss.
And this is what's so powerful.
And I think you can characterize the mentality of the person that does this.
I see a passage like a Calvinist, you know, a predestination.
That means everything is non free will.
OK.
And that is what I think IO does is they see a passage that's divorcing foreign wives.
Look right here.
He says the goi will be destroyed, the Gentile, you know.
And you see these things and then everything gets painted as one universal message.
And you want to put every square peg into a round hole.
And you don't realize there's dynamics.
There's flu.
There's kind of porous fluidity, if you will, through the Bible,
like Ezekiel has a universal mindset on Gentile,
where Ezra and Nehemiah are very exclusive and xenophobic
and very limiting on their idea of the outsiders.
But get this, the goi book, they go into the most racist text, if you will,
if I can use the term.
Ezra and Nehemiah and point that even they didn't exclude every outsider.
They chose what nations they were saying are outsiders,
but they didn't mention Persians.
I wonder.
And this is it's important because that's a very specific historical context,
a very specific camp of thinking that only existed at that moment in time.
Like if you go before that, you find, you know,
you've Joshua and these other texts are written specifically
to promote bringing foreign wives in and integrating them into the sect, right?
Like that's with elaborate procedures to like cleanse these women and then bam,
you get to marry them as long as they're virgins.
And then you have later, you have,
or you also have the Exodus conversion rule,
then you have later in the Second Temple period,
which is not so much represented clearly in the Bible necessarily.
But Ezekiel is actually part of that.
He's not Second Temple, but he's post exile.
But you get later, you get the Second Temple Jewish text,
you see much more openness to that,
but you see conflicts, conflicts between sects,
like the Pharisees were much more hardline about this.
And they had the difference between the Hillelites and the Shamai.
So even the Pharisees had arguments with each other over how,
how liberal can we be with inducting people?
And, and different other sects were much, much more open-minded about this.
And, and, you know, Christianity clearly with Paul came along
and made it probably the most open-minded of all of the Jewish sects at the time.
So yeah, you have this, things change over time.
Different people have different perspectives.
The different books mean different things.
And then, of course, they meant different things when they were written.
And then, yes, Jews were also reinterpreting these texts later
in all kinds of wild ways.
So when, when Paul comes along and the early Christians come along
and they do the same thing,
they're doing the same thing that was a standard Jewish practice
to like completely reinterpret what these things meant.
That's not what they meant originally,
but they change what they mean through the Pescher technique and others.
So if you don't understand the history of how these books developed over time,
how they were written for a particular circumstance.
And like Ezra, for example, is written in a particular circumstance
of actually resentment towards the ones, the people who didn't leave,
like those stayed and intermarried.
And so it created this kind of, like the Samaritans basically,
created this sort of intermixed version of Judaism slash paganism.
And so like his camp, and he's probably not the only,
they're probably camps against Ezra.
We don't get to read all of the different Jewish perspectives at the time.
And so he has this particular perspective at the particular time
because of Cyrus and the way things transformed
and what was going on at that moment and then history and so on.
And that resentment just sort of,
didn't exist two, three, 400 years later, right?
So it's like, there's the different attitude,
changes the way people read the text,
changes the way people use the text and so on.
So yeah, history, you have to attend the historical fact to understand texts.
You can't take them out of their historical context
and take them and pretend that they're all written by the same author
with the same views.
Like that that's just not the correct way to analyze the Bible.
And for anybody who's interested in this,
I really, really suggest you read more.
Don't just take the word of someone on YouTube,
even this channel, okay, who sounds like a preacher, all right?
They really have one hell of a, they can speak.
Jason DeCosta knows how to talk.
I mean, that guy, he's a salesman.
He sells PPE for a living.
Okay, yeah, you can tell he's very well articulate
and he knows how to put the right kind of funny
and the right kind of, you know, emotion into it
to get his audience to go, oh, that makes sense.
Bing, bing, bing.
It's all they know.
Keep reading, because if you keep reading, you'll find out real soon
that it's like going to your local Baptist church.
Okay, you're going to find that they have a mission and an agenda.
And I think he does.
I personally do think that most of the IO people that I talk to, not all.
Are Israel only proponents?
Because if they found out that Israel only wasn't true,
they almost feel like they're duped
and they need to become a Christian again.
Like they feel like, well, if we,
if that's meant for anyone outside of Israelites,
that means I might have to play a role in this thing.
Who said that?
Who said you need to be a Christian?
And I feel that way.
Maybe I'm strong and I want to set it up front.
Don't take what I'm saying here.
There's a similar thing with the historicity
versus resurrection debate, right?
Like there's a lot of Christians, not, I'm sorry,
a lot of ex-Christians will go around trying to beat Christians
over the head with the mythicism stuff
and say like, oh, look, it's obvious that Jesus didn't exist.
So your whole religion is bogus.
And there are even some people who've left Christianity
because of realizing that it actually makes sense
that there wasn't a Jesus, right?
So the mythicism has even be converted some people.
But you don't need, so there's two problems with that.
One is like, we can way more securely prove
that Jesus wasn't risen from the dead
than we can prove Jesus didn't exist, right?
So you don't need mythicist theories to leave Christianity.
It's obvious Christianity is false, even if Jesus existed.
So don't get obsessed with mythicism, right?
And don't use it as a cudgel, like beat up Christians
because it's a lot less certain than a much more obvious apologetic
which is like the resurrection is ridiculous.
It obviously didn't happen.
So you have a much stronger argument just taking to say,
let's just assume Jesus existed.
The resurrection is bogus, right?
And so, and there's a lot of other evidence
you can talk about, you know, what I do in my book,
Why I'm Not a Christian.
I have four chapters, four arguments as to why Christianity
is not a true religion.
None of them involve assuming that Jesus didn't exist.
So you don't need Jesus' mythicism to leave Christianity.
So if you like have doubts about,
well, maybe Jesus did exist historically,
that doesn't mean, oh, now I have to be a Christian again.
It's like, no, no, the rest of the region is still isn't true, right?
Like the fact that Jesus existed would be no more meaningful
than that Joseph Smith existed or Muhammad existed.
That doesn't mean Islam is true or that, you know, Mormonism is true.
So I think that this sort of confusion between like,
you really adamantly feel betrayed by being told that Jesus existed
and then you find the mythic argument convincing.
And so you leave Christianity over it.
If you tie your apostasy to that moment,
you might not be able to step back and say,
oh, actually I have plenty of reasons to not be a Christian.
I don't really need to like hang on to this mythicism.
I mean, if I do, you should just do it based on the evidence
and not as like an anchor to keep you out of the faith
or to cudgel Christians with, right?
So I think you have the same thing that you're running into here
with IO people.
If IO ever convinced anybody to get out of Christianity,
which I can't be too many people in the world that that's true of,
but even if that happened, all that really does like
pull the scales off your eyes so that now you can see that actually,
okay, even though IO isn't true,
there's plenty of other stuff that's not true.
So like there's no reason to go back to Christianity.
You got to look forward.
That's why I said, I hope I'm not strawmanning anyone.
But Dr. Carrier, like I love this because really what this does
is it's going to make anyone watching, I feel,
need to really check everything that they are saying
to really reconsider and at least build their evidence to make their case.
I know for a fact, some of these IOers are going to
only do everything they can to prove their point and to prove you wrong.
That's literally their whole agenda.
I want to throw a warning.
So here's what they'll do.
They'll throw out like a 45 or 80 page treatise thing.
This refutes them.
TLDR, no one's going to read a 45 page treatise.
So people will say like,
wow, there must be something there because they've got 45 pages of refutation.
What you should do is just do like the first two pages.
And so has any of the arguments they've given,
did they present any evidence for their assertions?
And does their conclusion even follow from the premises?
And once you find the answer is no for two whole pages,
you know, you don't need to waste time continuing.
So don't take the wordwall.
Don't fall for the wordwall tactic.
This is a tactic they use.
They throw up so many words that it's impossible to read them all.
So you can't examine every single claim they make
because they make thousands and thousands of claims.
Are the claims they're making based on a methodology generally
that actually is even sound?
And, you know, like I said,
do their conclusions follow from a premise?
And then they're only occasionally like,
they might make some fact claim that you say,
well, if that fact is true, that would support their thesis.
That's when you need to fact check them.
Like, is their factual claim correct?
And usually the answer in that case will be no.
Like, there's only two kinds of facts that they ever cite.
Facts that aren't true and facts that don't entail their thesis, right?
So anybody can identify these things.
So don't be snowed by the wordwall tactic.
Don't be snowed by their rhetoric.
Do an honest look at, do like a sample of their work
and say like, are they even arguing in a way that's worth my time?
And I say like, just do a sample and see if any of this makes sense.
And if not, you know you don't need to waste time on any more of their baloney.
If you don't read their 45-page treatise,
they'll throw you an 80-page treatise.
If you don't read their 80-page treatise,
they'll throw you a five-hour video, right?
So it's like they're trying to bury you in claims and claims and claims and assertions
and hoping you just give up and are overwhelmed by the number of things.
Don't fall for that tactic.
There are strategies to ascertain whether these are people you should even be listening to or not.
And then just need to sample it.
And then you can just walk away and don't let them goad you into
continuing to interact with their crazy, basically.
A couple things.
And then I'll pass the mic to you just to get it out while I'm on this video
because I think it's important that I say it.
I equated some of their information from the Black Keeper Israelite
and the Christian Identity British Israelite-ism groups
because they do borrow this concept of Gentiles and Paul being actual Israelites from these groups.
Now, I'm not saying they claim to be Israel.
Everyone knows that I know what I was saying.
Okay, so I had obviously been, I guess you'd say poisoned.
The well has been poisoned on me for saying that, which isn't true.
I never said that.
I did say that they do use some of their stuff.
Number two, what they do, and you're right, they use a thousand different things to build their case.
So I wanted to bring up James chapter one to the Scatter 12 Abroad, right?
They'll use this as like, hey, to the 12 tribes scattered abroad.
Evidence that they're scattered out here and therefore they don't think.
And I'm not saying this is the accurate understanding.
I'm saying this is so ambiguous, though, to make a doctrine from.
Yeah.
So here's a good example.
This is a really good example.
So if you read the whole, read the whole letter of James, don't just read line one.
Read the whole letter.
And if you don't have time to read the whole letter, if you go to my article,
I have links to the passages that matter to what I'm about to say,
if you want to skip right to them.
But James is clearly written to practicing Jews, not non-circumcised,
you know, apostates who are now pagans or polytheists or whatever.
No, he's writing to people who are already Torah observant and already agree that you
have to be Torah observant to be saved.
And there's two passages in James.
And I linked to them in my article where he's it's very clear.
He just assumes that his audience is Torah observant and agrees you should be Torah observant.
He doesn't make an argument for them or try to argue them in the Torah observance.
No, he does bash Paul, though.
Yeah.
So he's clearly talking to practicing or practicing Jews, but I will hate that word.
But people practicing Judaism.
So regardless of whether James thinks that some of these diaspora Jews
are not Judahites or Benjaminites, maybe they're one of the other 10 tribes.
He might have believed that.
I don't know.
It looks lots of different ways to interpret what he means by to the 12 tribes in the diaspora.
But it might just be a hopeful expression that maybe there are some lost tribes out there.
But but even if he's including other tribes, other 10 tribes or the lost tribes,
he still means the ones who remain faithful, who are actually still Torah observant Jews.
Like it's very clear that James is written for that.
The the IO crowd will just ignore this.
They'll just keep keep quoting James one, James one.
And I'll point out those other verses that show that he's he's talking about Torah,
already Torah observant people.
He's not ignore the people you're talking about.
And they'll just ignore it.
They won't respond to it.
They'll just keep making their assertion, making their assertion, ignoring the evidence against them.
Or just or they'll come up with some blather about like how to dismiss the evidence that isn't logical.
And once you see them do that, you know, you can't trust these people as exegetes of the Bible.
Makes perfect sense.
And I'm with you 100 percent.
I do like the idea of the hopefulness because Josephus had the same kind of hopefulness for the lost tribes.
Also, Jason Staples takes kind of a different angle where he says,
you know, it's like a spiritual replacement.
So so in a sense, there's this idea that the hopefulness it is eschatological,
or at least the New Testament is packaged in this, the in his near idea.
And so there could be a hopefulness there, even though that may not be the case.
It might just be the 12 tribes being Jewish diaspora.
So there you answer it might just be a metonymy or a synecdoche for the diaspora.
Sure. Interesting.
And that's the Jewish diaspora, which are the Jews, which separating the two house idea here
is what they want to force in the debate.
And there's not evidence to read it that way.
It's the point.
And the mere fact that the verse exists does not automatically justify their interpretation of the verse, right?
So that's what they'll do.
They'll start with their theory.
They'll interpret the verse according to their theory and say, see, proves our theory.
It's like, no, you just argued in a circle.
You didn't go anywhere.
You just you just assume asserted that your interpretation of that verse is correct.
The evidence in James entails that it isn't correct.
Like we it's not even like it's not even as if those verses weren't in James.
And so we didn't know we couldn't tell because James could be multiple things.
We don't know.
No, we know James is talking about Torah observant,
Judahites, Benjaminites, maybe other tribes we don't know.
But he means Torah already Torah observant people,
not not what the IO people are talking about these sort of, you know, uncircumcised,
polytheistic descendants of Israelites.
Yeah.
Or even I don't even know that that's the complication here because they didn't even know
their God in Acts 17, if these are supposedly Israelites, they don't even know the name of
the God that they're worshiping, which is an unknown God.
And you brought that up in your article, which was fascinating about him quoting a pagan poet.
It's like from one man, all the nations.
That's another example of how people don't understand.
Well, first of all, Paul didn't say any of those things.
This is Acts.
This is right speech that the author of Acts is inventing and putting in Paul's mind.
Paul's mouth.
So first of all, that's problem number one.
But problem number two is that he's literally crafting this as a message.
He's it's intended for his audience, Luke's audience, which is predominantly Gentiles,
meaning non Israelites.
Sorry, IO people.
But he's having he gives Paul this speech where he says
that all the nations, including, you know, non Israelites, it's very clearly means
there's these allusions to the Genesis and Exodus.
There's allusions to the Old Testament, Deuteronomy and Genesis that where he's very
clearly implying from a Jewish perspective, everybody gets in.
But also he's quoting a Stoic philosophers.
He's actually echoing Stoic philosophy that also had the same doctrine that everybody was
the son of God, where all have a common humanity.
Everybody all have a common humanity.
He's echoing the exact same thing.
And these Luke has Paul do this in the Areopagus, right where the freaking Stoa are after whom
the Stoa Stoics are named, because that's where the Stoics taught was at the Stoa,
right where Paul is speaking in this.
And so if you don't if you don't know any of this stuff, you won't understand what Luke is
doing in this chapter.
And that's the difference between like expert knowledge and amateurs, like just going at
the text and not just completely blind to what Luke meant, what readers of this text
would get out of it.
Like they would immediately get all of this.
It would be obvious.
Oh, Areopagus, Stoa.
That's where the Stoics are.
Oh, that's what Arathas or Clanthi said or whatever, right.
So like they would get these illusions.
And then the ones who actually know the scriptures who study the scriptures, even Gentiles did
study the scriptures.
If you convert to a sect, to a religion just as Christianity's do today,
you will study the scriptures of the sect that you're in.
You don't have to be Jewish to know the Old Testament.
And so they'll do the same thing.
They'll go in and they'll also see, oh, he's making illusions to the passage about all the
nations that God put under angels.
And like they'll get all of these things.
They'll be, they'll be clear.
And even when they're not clear, when a preacher, you know, like a bishop or a elder is reading
this text for congregation, he will tell them in a homily.
He will explain all of these things to them.
So like, like you have to understand these things in context and Israel only just doesn't
do context.
They don't do context for verses.
They don't do context for history.
They don't do context for authors, literary structure, context.
This isn't their game yet.
That's that's crank methodologies.
When you ignore context, you're a crank.
When you, when you attend a context, you're at least starting to pay attention to the way
proper historical methodology works.
And I want people to understand when you say context, you don't mean because he quotes
Hosea, we need to have Hosea's context.
The context of the author using the context for his own need and want.
And that is what we need to look at that context, not right.
So like the context could matter if that's the way Paul uses the text.
So like if Paul gives his exegesis of Hosea and it matches the original context of Hosea,
then the context of Hosea matters because Paul brought it in.
But that's not what Paul does when he quotes Hosea.
He quotes it in a detailed rhetorical argument where he's making the opposite argument.
He's misusing Hosea on purpose.
And so you can only know that if you pay attention to what Paul is doing with the verse.
You can't just quote it out of context, right?
You can't just assume that Paul means what Hosea means.
You have to prove that Paul means what Hosea means, right?
You need evidence.
You can't just assert it.
Well, there's a point.
That's what Hio does.
They just make these assertions, present no evidence for them.
And then act like they've proved their case.
And that's the methodology that's completely broken.
You cannot achieve any rational conclusion.
One of the few verses and we'll end this in this show because we're never going to cover everything.
Okay.
And that's why I wanted to write 25 page treatises with thousands of verses.
And this is what they do.
So like, let me just say up front, Jason Acosta changed his mind somewhat.
He's kind of, well, if my earlier interpretation was correct, I mean,
but my good friend, Rob Shannon, you know, pointed this out and I cussed at him and was
really angry at him all day till I changed my mind and decided to do this updated video.
But anyway, the idea that let's just poke at that one for a second,
because I could go to Romans nine and show there's a contrast between Gentile and Israel.
But I was going to say there's another part where he says that if he did not leave us
a remnant of the seed, well, look at his context in Romans nine through 11,
he seems to be addressing the to Jew and Gentile in some respect here,
because he's trying to explain why Gentiles are coming in.
At the same time, when he means seed, he means spiritually, not biologically.
Like he has a whole section of Romans nine, where he's like, he's really trying to argue this.
Like he's clearly has to argue.
That's that's also key evidence is that he has to argue this.
It's like, no, no, okay.
So yes, he said seed, but that that did not mean strictly biologically.
It meant it includes the spiritual way of becoming the seed of Abraham.
Like there's lots of verses in Romans, especially where Paul tries to strain this argument that
like, no, no, it includes non-biological inheritance.
Seed is a metaphor for it's, you know, it's an allegory for a broader goal of God.
The fact that Paul has to argue that and that that is what Paul is arguing
is how we know he's not arguing the Io thesis.
He could have argued the Io thesis.
He could have plainly said, oh, yeah, these these Gentiles are acceptable
because they are actually descendants of Israel.
So they're the acceptable ones.
And yeah, there are some other Gentiles.
This is the other weird things.
Like what why are there no examples of Gentiles being turned away?
Like like saying, like, well, I want to be safe too.
Oh, I don't know.
Can you prove that you're a descendant of an Israelite?
You can't get in.
Like Paul never has to deal with that argument.
Like that never comes up, which shows that it wasn't a thing that was happening.
Yeah, but Paul would have argued if Paul believed Io, he would have argued it.
It would be clear.
He wouldn't need to engage in all this weird legerdomain and this trickery with verses to try
and extract meaning from Paul that isn't there.
He would have just brick and said it.
And then you could just say, look, Paul said it.
And then we go, yeah, you're right.
The Paul said that.
That's that's clearly what he believed.
So that's just a methodology in general.
You see them do this all over and over.
They do it over and over.
Romans chapter one, the Gentiles here that are committing forms or sexual deviancy,
you know, doing wrong things, worshiping wood, hay and stubble idols, all these things.
They go, well, that's Israel.
Because look, they could show an Old Testament verse where it shows that Israel
started falling for these things.
And it's like, and this is what they do over and over.
And I want to just start with what I brought up at the beginning with the end here.
Initially, he thought that among the Gentiles and among the Samaritans were elect,
lost sheep of the House of Israel.
So the initial interpretation, this guy was saying was Jesus is saying,
actually, guys to the 12th, go to those places, but only find these guys.
And that's not at all what he's saying.
He's correct saying avoid those places completely, only go to the Jew.
That's it.
And they are the lost sheep of the House of Israel.
So what does that do logically?
Since this is their anchor text to argue Matthew 10, Matthew 15,
I came only for the lost sheep of the House of Israel.
What that does is who are the lost sheep of the House of Israel?
According to Matthew, they're not the Gentiles and they're not the Samaritans.
However,
Samaritans of everybody of anybody who could claim lost Israelite ancestry
would be the frickin Samaritans.
And that's what I wanted to ask you this.
You're absolutely 100 percent right because this is where it's like,
OK, my patience gets tested because it's like, OK, they jumped to John.
And I get it, Matthew, guys, he even admits on board on his recent video,
like Jews are the lost sheep here in this context.
He sees the problem with this, though, on his whole non-contradictory
harmonizing by running the Acts, Chapter One, Luke, John.
Damn, they're in the cities of Samaritans.
Preaching the gospel and converting Samaritans and Gentiles are starting to come in and stuff.
So my question is, if they're not the lost sheep in Matthew and he's going to them in Luke
and he's going to them in John, these guys go to a new rhetoric.
Well, shoot, we can't let go of IO.
So they run and they go, Jesus did say he had sheep not of this fold in John.
Therefore, there's other sheep and only Israel were called sheep.
And they do that kind of rhetoric.
So I said, and I wanted your opinion, the prodigal son, for example,
or the good Samaritan, like, why are they even saying these things?
I think the rift between Jew and Samaritan potentially, and I'm not saying this is fact,
it's an option that the idea of like the prodigal son very well could be a uniting of the Samaritan
with the Jew and saying, guys, let's get over this thing.
We're all brothers.
Like this could be a rift like connecting them and like stop the division between the two.
Also, John Matthew's not a man who's not cool with the Samaritans.
He's obviously not cool with them and the Gentiles till the end of the gospel.
Like, all right, now you can go for them.
They're not really important.
But now they are John and acts are saying, go to them.
Luke's uniting something.
He's trying to correct Matthew's arguing.
Luke is trying to get rid of Matthew's argument.
He's going to hide it.
Basically, that contradiction is on purpose.
Luke specifically creates a mission to the Greeks and the Samaritans specifically for
the purpose of nullifying that verse in Matthew to sort of basically get rid of it.
Because Luke is promoting the Gentile church, whereas Matthew is against the Gentile church.
So you're looking at two documents that are arguing against each other to try and force
a harmony between them as if they were written, like they colluded together.
Luke and Matthew colluded together to write coherent text is not what happened.
Like, they were not even in the same book originally.
They were not even ever meant to be together.
It was the later, you know, faux Christians that put them together.
So, and so like this, but again, we have evidence for this.
I'm not just asserting this.
You can go.
There's tons of scholarship on it.
We have tons of evidence that we can see the arguments and how they formed.
We can see the arguments even in other Christian texts outside the Bible.
We see this going on.
Whereas the IO people will come in and just make these assertions and present
no evidence for their version of why are we interpreting Luke in light of John.
John argues against Luke.
Like, we shouldn't be trying to understand Luke by assuming that John is going to tell us
what Luke actually meant.
Luke would be deeply offended by us doing that.
And so like, same with all these other things.
So, so yeah, that you're spot on in the way that they
that they use the New Testament with the Peshir technique, just like the Christians did the
Old Testament, which is a bogus technique, right?
Like the only justification they had for it was that God exists and secretly manipulated
the text.
Like they're the original QAnon conspiracy theory, right?
Like they have this idea that God has inspired this perfect hidden message and only we are
inspired by God to find that hidden message and it was hidden there to prevent the devil
from finding it and so on.
That I mean, that's wackadoo.
That's early Christianity was wackadoo.
Like that was that was the case.
But to do that, like, and then not like make they're not even making the argument that God
inspired all of this.
And it's the secret messages that they are inspired by the Holy Spirit to correctly
read the messages.
They're not even doing that, which would be more Pentecostal, I think, in a way.
But they have no reason to believe a secular methodology.
Like they're turning pressure into a secular methodology.
And that doesn't work.
That doesn't.
There's if there's no if God isn't inspiring all the stuff and isn't inspiring you to read
the code.
This is not a valid methodology.
This is tealy for reading.
This is forcing the text to say what you want it to say rather than actually reading
the text for what it meant to say.
And that's why good scholars like Dr. Goodacre, who I recently had on about Q about a month
and a half, two months ago, three months ago, he even points out this problem.
Like he's an honest, you know, and I believe he is a Christian and I respect the man.
That's 100 percent his choice.
The thing is, he's not lying or trying to cover up.
It's almost like I.O. has to be extreme fundamentalist to the point that they're
willing to say Matthew 10 means acts one, eight.
Now he might be changing his mind, of course, now.
But what implications that brings?
I don't even think he sees what that does to the thesis by him allowing Jews to be the
lost sheep here, and that excludes Gentiles and the Samaritans destroys that whole premise
of him anchoring I.O. through these these texts that they like to go hammer Christians 14 hours
a day in chat rooms and harass people and then create fake accounts so they can go back in
there and continue to harass people.
It's like, come on, what's your what is your motivating factor?
The thing, right, like if you're crazy, you you cannot be wrong.
So if people are refuting you, they're motivated to do these things to sock puppet themselves
to harass people.
They have to try people.
They can't abide someone not seeing what they're seeing, right?
So like they're forced to either persuade people or somehow slag them off as completely
unreliable or they've been refuted or basically exile and shun them or whatever.
Those are their two strategies, harass or shun.
And, you know, and that's that's that's crazy.
That's not a rational scholarly way to behave.
That's not professionalist.
It's amateur and childish.
And but that's typical of people who have these kinds of delusional beliefs,
which I was not the only group that does this is like I mentioned the Flat Earth.
There's another category people who do the same thing.
But there's many of them.
I'm not trying to poison the well, even though I know they don't believe that.
They think I'm not.
They think I'm just absolutely anti them.
But I talk to a lot of Iowers that are friends of mine and I talk to them on the phone.
And they are very much into conspiracies, like a lot of them.
Most of them are conspiratorial case.
Yeah, they aggregate.
So if you're if you're prone to believing conspiracy theories,
you're going to aggregate conspiracy theories.
So they do there is a certain personality type that is very prone to believing these things.
And don't get me wrong, I get it.
There are real conspiracies in the world.
But it's like, now you're getting into La La Land.
So ladies and gentlemen, excessive pattern recognition, right?
They're they're seeing patterns everywhere that don't exist.
And their pattern recognition isn't dialed to a more attenuable level where they're like
a lot of patterns are random and just they're accidentally there.
And you can't make them fit if you really look closely.
But if you're really obsessed with seeing the pattern and can't let go of the pattern,
even though now you find evidence against the pattern,
there's a certain personality type that sticks you in that sort of faulty cognitive bias
world, basically.
And then once that happens, then you're highly prone to believing these things.
And you can tip way off the deep end as a result of it.
Final thought, ladies and gentlemen, make sure you guys go down in the description.
Like I said, help Dr. Carrier become a patron.
He does a lot of stuff like this.
And I'm going to throw it out there.
You may not want me to.
But either way, if you guys are interested in a project, OK,
he will possibly potentially, as long as it's not completely that shit crazy,
consider helping you in some way, shape, or form.
But it's time is money.
I'm his money, Dr. Carrier.
And I don't care what anyone thinks, man.
I don't go cut people's lawns because I enjoy it.
I'll go cut your grass because I want to make money and I will do a good job.
And you pay me for what you want.
I called you because I knew you know, Greek, you're an expert.
When it comes to these things, you know how to source what you're doing.
You're not going to just pull a rabbit out of your hat and say,
well, here's what you wanted to hear, Derek.
You told me in private that you're you may not like my conclusions.
I might come out on the other side and say you're wrong.
They have a point and instead you've come out opposite.
So these guys will use words like assembly are in the Greek.
They'll go and they'll use words like gather together and assembly.
And they think that means like every context of something sounds similar.
It means election or it means the elect or the, you know, like they have this way of interpreting
things that my good friend Stephen was looking and he was trying to find it last night before we
did the show to like there is a point where they quote something that doesn't give that kind of
implication. It's almost like calling you out of your house to go to an assembly.
That's it. They make it mean this predestinarian election for the Israelites and stuff.
And it's like, at what point do you stop?
They just quoted another man who said all Israelites are Gentiles.
When we looked up the guy, he has no sources.
Number one, he was an ex fundamentalist preacher in South Africa who got kicked out of his own
cult. Number two, and number three, he learned this two weeks before he posted this article.
So I said, oh, my God, they're willing to retort to that.
And they used a fake account when they published it.
And I think it was a guy named Michael beers who published it under another fake account.
So they're willing to go and find anything they can to just assert their position.
Yeah. And there you go. Yeah.
People who want to I give examples of all the things you're talking about.
I give examples of that kind of stuff, the hackling wisdom, the desperate finding of any
article that like maybe sounds like their view and so on. That's all in my article.
So the incompetent crankery of the Israel only movement, you can find it on my blog, which
you'll see the link below, but it's Richard carrier.info, Richard carrier.info.
All my things are there. You can find in the categories menu, you can find my classes.
I teach classes in biblical biblical studies, philosophy, ancient history.
I teach all kinds of courses. You can check those out on my website.
You can find my Twitter feed and my Facebook feed there.
My blog and my Patreon if you want to help support me.
And if you want to buy my books or even find recommendations, I have recommendations.
There's a link there for recommendations in origins of Christianity, philosophy,
ancient science, which reminds all three of my specialty.
So all my stuff you can find at Richard carrier.info.
So check that out. And yeah, if you want to hire me to do stuff, I am a bit pricey.
So it depends on what you want me to do. But but we can talk about it.
Just email me a business proposal. I do appreciate it, man.
And ladies and gentlemen, make sure you guys go down and check it out.
Help Dr. Kerry out. We're going to have more on myth vision.
Of course, not talking about these subjects anymore.
I had to put this out there, guys. This has been something, you know,
but I but I have to say, Dr. Carrier, I want you to come back.
Let's talk about science in the ancient world.
The Roman like I'm interested in stuff that isn't just Jesus related necessarily.
Like I want to know what ancient how the ancient philosophies worked.
Like I want to learn all that stuff.
So I probably am going to take you up on some of these courses soon myself.
And ladies and gentlemen, go drop a shekel in there.
Give him a PayPal even for this episode.
Like help him for his time. I do appreciate it, man,
because this is how you make your living is educating, man.
And thank you so much. I work as an independent scholar.
I have I am my own boss. It's nice. I don't make six figures, but you know,
not wealthy, but but I make a living and I enjoy doing it.
And I'm not beholden to anyone. So it is nice.
So but yeah, it doesn't mean that I unlike professors who just get a salary.
I do depend on people supporting me.
So patrons who support my work make it possible for others because I my blog is free.
So it's available to everybody.
So these articles are things that if you help fund them,
you know, if you're a Patreon supporter and stuff,
you're helping making these blog articles available to the wider public,
to the world, actually, the people all over the world read them,
including people behind the curtain in Islamic countries, as I know for a fact,
also read my stuff. So it has that influence.
But also you get to quote and cite them because you get these, you know,
like for you in this case, you actually funded the research on this.
But you and your fans help fund it.
But now that article exists, you can you can you've got you can bookmark it.
And every time it comes up, you can just go read this, go read this.
So once you have that, you actually have a tool that you can use to help you
and your audience better respond to these things, better react to these things,
better handle these things and so on.
So the work is useful to people.
And if you believe in making that more widely available for yourself and to the world,
yeah, become a Patreon supporter or a regular PayPal supporter and so on.
And all of that stuff, you can find options on my website,
which also are down in the description to get to the website.
Make sure you guys do brand new book, get the book.
Don't leave me hanging, guys.
I appreciate you guys being mythish and fans watching me and Dr.
Kerry discuss this theory.
And we will be seeing you soon because he's going to be debating today.
Dr. Dennis R. McDonald on the existence of Jesus historically.
Was he a mythologized man or was he a revelatory angelic being, so to speak,
or a godly angelic being who is now historicized or you hemorrhized, if you will.
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you so much, Dr.
Kerry. I appreciate it, man.
Yeah, glad to be here.
Thanks for everything.
Yeah, thank you.
And don't forget, everybody, in case you have cognitive dissonance,
like some people that were doing the show about, we are MythVision.
