Dr. Richard C. Miller has made his first live stream appearance on Atheologica,
Derek Bennett's YouTube channel. The channel is in the description and pinned at the top of the
comment section. In this live stream, after he shares his story, kind of recaps and touches
things that I didn't get to discuss with him on my trip to California, super chats come up. And
of course, I have to toss a few shekels at one of my favorite guys. And I asked Dr. Richard C. Miller
about resurrection, antecedents to resurrection. He has shown, I think, without a shadow of doubt,
that the antecedents to the resurrection or ascension, post resurrection, ascension narratives
we find within the New Testament are closely related to Romulus. And Romulus has clear eyewitnesses,
the whole nine, to his ascension. We also have a good antecedent to the idea of Jesus drinking
his cup, almost the cup of hemlock, facing his death without fear and Luke, like Socrates. You
might even argue like Socrates and Mark early on. So we have an early antecedent to other
parallels, so to speak, to Jesus. And I wanted to know, what about resurrection? And the nuance
developed answer he gives is amazing. I hope that you will tune in. If you're interested in
seeing several more interviews, I'm literally right now exporting another one, dealing with
the rank Raglan arguments, we go into dreams, subconsciousness, mythology, as it develops
with deities, why we believe in gods and these kind of stories that we tell ourselves to survive
in the world that we live in. There are so many interviews I've done, they're on the Patreon. So
I hope you enjoy this video in these clips. Go subscribe to Atheologica and check out our Patreon.
We've got another one here from Ye Olde, Myth, Vision, Podcast. What are the closest antecedents
to Jesus's resurrection? We know Romulus for ascension, Socrates for facing death, but resurrection.
Well, okay, I would say that the idea of resurrection in the New Testament is nominal.
He's not a resurrection proper. So the categories that were going at that time didn't include what
happened to Jesus. What we see in the New Testament regarding Jesus would have been alien in terms of
the ideas of what we would consider a resurrection or early Jewish thought. So, you know, resuscitation,
there was a few stories of that. I think you could even get that back in Elijah and some of the
Elijah, Elisha cycles in Hebrew Bible. I think there's a resurrection or something like that back
there. But you also get that with some of these other stories like Lazarus and so forth. And so
I think I drew that association in some of our prior discussion. Once you get to Jesus, though,
I think the resurrection is in name only, really. It's only as a byproduct. So if you go to my
kind of gallery, what I call translated figures, some of them were postmortem and therefore
if so facto resurrections, so to speak, you know, they were immortalized, their body went missing
afterwards. There's one that was even in a coffin, I think they're like carrying it down the street
and it disappears, the body disappears and in its place is left a statue. They open the coffin and
look and there's a statue there instead of the body, a missing body narrative in that sense. And so
and there are several others where individuals, you know, Heracles on his
tire, he's consumed by fire, you know, let's not kid ourselves in the story. He's killed, so to
speak. But then also ascends and they can't find his bones down in the in the charred remains. And
so they say, oh, he became a God because there's no moment, there's no remains. And so that was
really a big deal. You know, are there remains? That's the question. And so the vanished body,
no remains, empty tombs, missing, and then appearances and this kind of thing. This is what
we get in the new, this is what the narratives are working at giving us in the in the end of the
narrative in the New Testament. They're not working at trying to talk about resurrection proper in
some kind of traditional Jewish way. They're doing a lot of work, though, to present Jesus within
these tropic categories. And you end up with, you know, basically whole chapters or, you know,
basically the the postmortem narratives, extensions, epilogical extensions to each narrative,
trying to make sure that the reader is unmistaken on this particular point. So they're doing this
deliberately. It's not just unconscious. You know, they are deliberately making this a very
distinctively recognizable translation type story. I would go further than that and say,
I don't know of another narrative that's more deliberate. It's because they're using the word
resurrection there that they have to work overtime to make sure, okay, let's make sure and pour it
in all of the stuff so that everyone in the Greco-Roman world knows that this is what we mean by
that translation, that this is exaltario. This is this is someone that's to be venerated,
temples, cultic worship. This is somebody whose body had transcended the mortal. And so they're
wanting to, they're working overtime at that. Most of the other figures would only have one or two
of the signals. I think I list maybe 14 or 15 signals in there. Jesus has over half of them,
maybe, maybe nine or something like that, but he doesn't have all 15. Well, none of them had more
than that that I could see. Romulus had a lot as well. And so there's a couple of other figures
that had a lot. And because they were the archetypes for the tradition, Romulus, Heracles was the
second major archetype. And both of those kind of tributaries fall into what we get with Jesus.
They're both relevant in terms of the crafting of the Jesus narrative. We've got this myth vision
podcast popping in here again. He says, hallucination hypothesis for resurrection is unnecessary,
he's asking. Yes. Yeah, it's utterly unnecessary for any of the other translated figures. They're
not having a lot of hypno hallucinations or eating, you know, bad bread or whatever they're
trying to say happen, funny mushrooms or something. You know, this was a trope. This was a, this was
a pattern that was, this was the protocol. This was the format. This was the, that was necessary
in order to install someone in the classical Mediterranean Hall of Fame. You couldn't, there
wasn't another way. I mean, they had the cult of heroes in which case they would venerate the bones.
And a lot of that you see carried forward almost unchanged at all right into the cult of saints
in early Christianity. And so, but the only other category was deification. And that is reserved
exclusively for Jesus in the early Christian cult, but had any number, and I, I, I list upwards of
100, but the list goes on and on of individuals who followed these same patterns and turn, and so
you don't need to have these explanations of, you know, people having hallucinations or visions or,
you know, any of the other kinds of ideas that have been proposed, I think, falsely.
I love that he asked that and I love the way that you answered it because I could not possibly agree
more. I hear, you know, secular scholars like, like Bart Ehrman, for instance, who I very much
appreciate, you know, but, but when I see them talking like they have to, they have to come up
with some kind of naturalistic explanation for these appearances in the New Testament. And it's
like, wait a minute, I don't see you doing this with Romulus. I don't see you doing this with
Asclepius. I don't see you doing this with Aristius because there you recognize that it's entirely
unnecessary. It's, it's superfluous. It's, you know what I mean? And yet we're even, even secular
scholars and historians are strangely giving special treatment to Christianity and I don't get it.
I don't understand it. It's, I think you're dead on. There's no need to hypothesize any
hallucinations whatsoever. It's not necessary. I even find the discussions about what happened
to the body while interesting, unnecessary to the discussion. I mean, a lot of people are
really worried about that. We have an alternative account that the disciples came and stole the
body. Okay. I find that satisfying. Okay. I'd like to interview those soldiers or whatever that are,
that supposedly had that report or that witnessed this. And so I, to me, that's probably it. You
know, I know there's the idea that he was eaten by dogs or whatever the body was eaten by. Okay.
That's also, I think that that occurs in some early Jewish writing. Okay. Or later rabbinic writing.
And so that's fine. But to me, those are almost okay. I don't, it doesn't matter. It's just one
Palestinian man. To me, Jesus isn't all that special. At this point, I don't see that question
as all that interesting. Any more than any of the other, you know, my, my brother-in-law died last
year. What happened to his body that I'm more, you know, I'm more interested in that question
than what happened to a Palestinian man in the ancient world. I'm sorry if that sounds kind of
like I'm trashing Jesus, but to me, his death is no more important than any other human's death.
And I care about any, any number of people, how they died. I feel like my, my book goes all the
distance it needs to explain what, what's going on with those narratives without needing to describe
any of the details of, I don't know what happened to Apollonius' body either. And no one's losing
sleep, you know? No. And it's not because I'm an anti-theist or because I'm anti-Christian and
wanting to take the, the most, uh, strident or extreme position. It's not because of that. It's
because I understand the, the cultural and literary context in which this stuff is blossoming.
And so I am just quite naturally saying, look, I'm sorry, but this is entirely
superfluous. It's not needed. We can see this for what it plainly is.
Yeah, exactly. I think a lot of these questions are falsely conceived. They're almost coming out of
apologetics. That's just kind of them kind of trying to, it's almost like they're dung beetles
trying to pick apart, you know, see if they could find some corner barley in the pile that's there.
Always looking for some kind of escape hatch. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So anyway, not, not to
disrespect Jesus there, but you know what I'm saying. I don't think anyone's more important than him
in history. Agreed. Thank you so much, MythVision Podcast. Mr. Dare, uh, this stuff that we find
regarding, um, Christ's resurrection appearances, the missing body and all of this stuff that,
you know, that we find in the New Testament. This is, um, this is mythology, isn't it, Dr. Miller?
Well, yeah, it's unmistakable mythology. Now, if people want, people in the ancient world invested
themselves, they indulge their minds in these cultic worlds that were produced and we can get into
Markterology and why people were willing to die and what that might have meant in the earliest
movement. But it wasn't on this foundation, so to speak. And so the idea that, you know,
they were clearly registering these stories within that category. And as far as we could tell in the
earliest evidence, they had to deal with the fact that this was recognized as it was within that,
those categories that I unpack in the book. So as early as Justin Marder, who was born in the
first century, he's already admitting as much.
