Dr. Richard C. Miller, I started MythVision, named the channel MythVision, because I started noticing
things about Jesus that looked like myth with my vision. And people have noticed I was a Mythassist
who thought Jesus did not exist, did know, but had a high high suspicion for good reasons to think
that didn't happen, and that didn't happen, and that didn't happen. So I thought, okay, I'm real
close with Robert Price. I am reading Richard Carrier. I am aware of Mythassist argumentation,
read on the historicity multiple times. I really had this idea of Jesus' existence,
probably not the case. And I wanted to know the origins of Christianity. So I'm spinning this
onto you, because you're not a consensus argument guy that, oh, well, everyone else poo-poo is the
idea that Jesus didn't exist. So we're off, it's off the table. You kind of look at it go, consensus
be damned, that does not draw my conclusion. I'll make my own mind up on what I do. Right.
I know as my openings here are long, but it's a conversation. And I think this is important
to kind of emphasize. I personally drew the conclusion there was probably a guy now.
For simple reasons, and some of those simple reasons are, in Paul's letter, Jesus is crucified.
It says he's born of a woman. I know that term, genomei, kaneen, manufacture, but my wife made my
kids. That meant she birthed them. And I just said she made them. But you know what I mean.
So it can be interchangeable to mean birth or made. He's of the seat of David,
descended genealogically in some way. He's trying to tie him into David.
I imagine Jews did this a lot. I'm from Zola. I'm genealogically finding a way to have pedigree.
So I read this and I went, man, Philo talks about Jews being crucified by Romans. Josephus,
without a doubt, crucified by Romans. Here's Paul talking about Jesus, crucified. Now,
mythicists will argue and try to show, oh, not by Romans. It doesn't say by Romans. It says by
archons or says by this. And typically, I would imagine if you don't want your head to be cut off,
you may not blame Romans very openly in your letters. I don't know and cannot prove that.
But it made me know that makes more sense than the celestial model.
I'm 30 what I think. What do you think? Do you think there was a guy?
Are you sympathetic toward mythicism as an academic? I just asked Carl Ruck. And when I get
back from this trip, I'm interviewing him. He thinks it's all story. This is PhD, Harvard,
Carl Ruck, who's a philologist. This guy knows he wrote apples of, he wrote all sorts of stuff
about this. He thinks it's a story. Where are your thoughts on this and how do you think Christianity
started? Oh, yeah. First, I'd like to say that it's upsetting that that perspective that Jesus
did not exist at all is being lampooned and being driven to the margins. Those that take that view
are being pushed off of any kind of legitimate seat at the table in terms of what the theories that
are going to be taken the most seriously in the field. That to me is an abuse of power. It's
inappropriate. At some point, someone this chock full of myth and legend in their story,
there's only two possible outcomes to that. Either he was whole cloth myth, in other words,
all story, like this professor is telling you, or there's some kernel of something behind it,
but not enough there to really determine the narrative. And so those are the two options.
I guess you can add a third that Peter Pan really did exist and did all these things,
and you could end up with this kind of absurd construct that I think is popularized by some
modern literalists. I think that's off the table in terms of some of the other videos that you've
done with me. So if we've only got two legitimate secular positions to take on this at this point,
that either he's all but entirely myth and legend with some little tiny kernel at the bottom of that,
like the other was a guy named Jesus, and maybe we can connect the dots on four or five things
there and walk away. Or no, let's just let go of all that altogether, and we've got a whole cloth
kind of invented story. If those are the only two legitimate perspectives on the table, then those
should be the only two legitimated perspectives in the field. That's not what's going on, and we've
talked about that in prior videos. And so my perspective on this is I give camaraderie to
those that take another view, and that is the mythicist view. I am regarded as a mythicist as
well. If you go searching, and I've done this a couple of times, search for my name and see,
what are people thinking of me out in the big world of things? I've seen my name sort of just
kind of stuck right in the same slot along with carrier and price, and you go down the list, right?
And I'm not ashamed of that. I think it sort of obscures some distinctions there between our
positions. But Richard Kerry and I have talked about that, and I respect where he's coming from.
He respects where I'm coming from. I believe that we're kind of talking, we're 95% talking about
a lot of the same stuff. And I appreciate the fact that he's trying to drive, that he has driven
this thesis, even to the point of being mistreated by the field, even he's carried it forward. And
he's uniquely qualified for that in terms of his personality to put up with
an atrocity really of mistreatment by the field. And so that's my perspective on it. I know it's
more complicated than that, but my perspective on it is we've got a qualified historian that's
coming into the discourse, highly qualified, arguably more qualified than most of the people
that pretend to know what they're talking about in this field, because he is specifically trained
in the rigors of historiography and antiquity, or historiographical work regarding ancient time.
And so he's been trained by the best in the world at the best place, two of the best places in the
world. And he is uniquely qualified in that way, at least equally qualified to be at the table
with a legitimate perspective on this topic. And I appreciate that. My perspective is that
if the historical Jesus did exist, but he was all but irrelevant to the composition of the
Gospels, in fact, even in the way. And so that's my perspective on it. And we can unpack why and
what I think all the layer cake of literary intentionality, the templating of different
memetic models, the effort to paint him within these theological kind of charged topics, and
the sorts of things that they're trying to achieve. And in mythologizing him that we've got a text that
is from beginning to end, a set of texts beginning to end that are chock full of legend, folk belief,
myth, all the way across the board. This idea then that somewhere behind that we need to have
this pilgrimage to if we interrogate the text long enough, maybe the historical man will step
forward and present himself and introduce himself. It's not going to happen. That's not going to
happen. You're never going to know what that guy was like. But all we do know is for certain from
the standpoint of secular academics is he was not what the New Testament Gospels are not footage
of any flesh and blood person that actually existed in history. And so can I can I press a little
here? You said that the Jesus that you think probably existed is honestly irrelevant. And he
gets in the way. And something I got a praise on this, because this has been my recent conclusion
where I'm at right now, I change my mind all the time. I'm sorry, I'm not omniscient for you viewers.
I know you like to think I am, but I'm just kidding. So the the idea that this is even
that important of a question among the two camps that are to be legitimately considered.
I find that that's almost like a tribalistic. It's like almost like the apologetic world wants
that battle between both of the legitimate possible camps. Because while I don't find
personally the conclusion of the celestial model Jesus that Richard paints, I don't rule out the
possibility of the story model that you hear Ruck say. Ruck doesn't go into the whole celestial
thing as much as he says, I think it's just a story, kind of like Hercules is just a story,
or Asclepius is just a story. There's stories about this. Could there have been a guy? Maybe
we have totally lost him. And I would go so far as to say Romulus, where we're pretty confident
that guy never even existed at all. But he's painted like a guy who did exist at some point
in the past. I understand it's a distant past. And this is where the argument for
historicists want to come in. Well, Jesus is in the distant, distant past. That's assuming a legend
can't build up in a few days or weeks or years or something. So I want to push it back on you,
press you to say, do you think the question is wrong headed? Is it really something worth
dying on the hill over with the two camps? No. In fact, it's my own published work. What I try to
do, rather than Jesus myth theorist or Christ myth theorist and traditional, what are they,
they're trying to draw that line. There's those guys. Let's cut that out. And then there's everyone
else who are mainstream or whatever, and then maybe some radicals on the other end. So that's
the way they're slicing kind of the discursive pie. I think that's a false way to slice it.
What I'd like to, a different term, a namespace I'd like to popularize, or at least the one that
I use when I write, is a myth critic. This is somebody who's interrogating or investigating
the New Testament and unpacking its mythologies. And it just so happens that that is an extensive
project that pretty much covers it from end to end. And so that, to me, that's a shared project.
We're starting from very, we have very similar projects then across that entire. So there is
not that line. Maybe one says that it's 100% myth and another one says that it's 95 or whatever.
Okay. And maybe there's a range there, but there's a whole bunch of scholars that fit in that world
that have a whole lot to gain from one another. And that discourse needs to be happening. And so
I think the professor you're talking about, that's talking about it being story, that person deserves
a seat at the table. Carrier deserves a seat at the table. McDonald deserves one. Perhaps even
Litwa, myself, other figures that are out here trying to do serious academic work that's that
are serious about that question and not trying to create a, you know, something that would be useful
to belief systems in the modern world, but just trying to answer it from the best of our knowledge
in honesty regarding, you know, what, if anything, here is historically reliable.
I would say it misses the point. The Gospels are not data for that project.
We're looking, it's like finding out, let's pretend there was some x-ray of the Earth and
we knew this area had diamonds. But this area over here literally had no minerals at all.
And we're trying to go over here to find historical diamonds where there's no
diamonds. And you're saying that mining the non-diamond regions of the Gospels to find that
historicity or historical kernel is futile. It's a fool's errand. And if you go to SBL,
you'll see it in giant, and I'm sure I'm upsetting someone that's watching this right now that finds
that deer. But you'll say a giant session with 100, perhaps hundreds of people in there trying to
explore this question. They're on a pilgrimage. I would call it a religious faith-based pilgrimage
in some way. Even though they're discounting pieces of Jesus, they're still trying to get to
that holy man at the bottom of it all, trying to get down to the kernel, the founding figure.
They're trying to derive that. It's an academic pilgrimage that's rooted in an obsession with
finding the original kernel and the tradition, which you can go back to even Martin Luther and
others that are just digging further to try and get down. If you could just get down to the core,
the original gospel, the original guy, that must be the real one. That's the one that's the authority
behind all this. And I see that as a fool's errand. And so now I love Albert Schweitzer. I love going
back and reading him. And I think it was a daring pioneer in certain ways regarding that. Not the
first, of course, but in his wave of work along with others. It's exciting what was going on there.
But in the end, I find it to be ill-conceived, really.
So we now kind of situated your personal perspective, but we've also
want to remove some of the tribalistic, religious dogma arguing, oh, you're a
mythicist. I can't listen to you. I personally would like to encourage those who are a mythicist
to also be more flexible to those who are like me, who in no way thinks this is divine or true.
And just because I think there was probably a guy, I'm not your enemy.
And I want to encourage anyone who might think that by subversive, I hope that you would do
the same. We can create the unity we should have. And if we do have common ground, it's
the magical Jesus is not true. And I am a magical Jesus mythicist. I am that Jesus is not true.
There is no Jesus that existed that did any of that stuff. So in that sense, I'm a mythicist.
So we have common ground. We need to have that. Getting into the origins question.
Wow, do books sell off of the shelves of like, how did Christianity begin? And the
the true origins of Christianity, even Robin Faith Walsh, when I did her recent course,
which I haven't edited and put up yet. Maybe it's up by now. I don't know. When you're watching this,
she's like, hmm, this is hard because origins of Christianity, like that speculation,
trying to figure that out. What do you speculate? Now you're taking off your rigorous academic
goggles. You're using them to get as close as you think. But now you're kind of taking
guess. And the guess is, what do you think happened, Dr. Miller, that started this cult?
Oh, yeah. So I would say that there was probably some, there was a charismatic figure back there
at some point that had a following of some kind, not as big as John the Baptist movement,
obscure by comparison. Maybe they were even cousins, as it says in there. I don't know.
I think the baptizer was a real historical person. I know that maybe some of the people
you have on your show would disagree with that. And I'm fine with that too. I don't,
doesn't change my life one way or the other. You know, I think that basically you've got
an apocalyptic, it seems like somebody, you know, John Kloppenberg, maybe a good informing voice on
this. And then you've got this apocalyptic movement early on, maybe, maybe you've got a cynic
philosopher kind of layer there, you know, he's dealing with few and some of these early constructions
there. I would defer to someone like, you know, Dennis McDonald, I would even defer to the
businesses, you know, they're doing something important here in terms of trying to, their
heuristic project is how far can we explain this without presuming that there was a historical
figure behind it all. And we're shocked at how far they can go with that. And some of that has
been deeply insightful. And so, yeah, I would say that there was some sort of an apocalyptic figure
there that was, that there was some sort of, he upset some people and that he was a radical in
some ways and he got executed and he had followers. Beyond that, in terms of, you know, and I think
he was without honor, just like it says in the God, no prophet is without honor, except for in
his own kind of, in Saffron Judea and Nazareth and all these, he was without honor there in
his original context. We once knew him as a flesh and blood person as Paul claims there.
And I think that, yeah, there, even though he never quotes the guy, I mean, it wasn't terribly
relevant, I guess, like, you would think you would find by price and others have brought this up. Why
wouldn't we find, given the ethical questions that are being addressed in Paul's letters,
why wouldn't we find anecdotes and quotations from Jesus routinely meeting us in the pages of Paul,
if that figure was at all relevant to his project? Not relevant. That's a very low bar. I mean, you
would say he is the Christ, he's the most heralded and signified figure in Paul's idea, right? This
is the figurehead of the movement. And yet, there's a conspicuous absence of any kind of interest in
what that individual may have actually said in time and space.
So it is like a guessing game, really, to know exactly what anything really, how it really
happened and what is the case. And that is, that is really the case of what we're dealing with.
I guess, you know, I like what you said there. But if I was to push back, to push back devil's
advocate, you mentioned John the Baptist, you mentioned Q. Here we are at the Gospels again,
the fool's errand of trying to find the historical Jesus. Thank you. So if I were a
mythicist listening to you, I'd go, dude, you just told us, what are we doing going to the Gospels?
Thank you. Then you go to the Gospels to make John the Baptist a point. But Josephus does mention
John the Baptist. I tend to think this guy's real. And I do think that they're even making,
I think the Gospels are even doing things with John that you're not finding that the
historical John the Baptist may have actually done here. No, I agree with you. We're not getting
the historical, this is not footage of anything. Right. So it's like, are we, what are we doing?
What the heck is going on here? I agree. And so in terms of the Q thing, I mean, I myself am,
I wouldn't say fully agnostic on it, but my work does not depend on any kind of particular position
on Q. It's debated. I honestly think that this has gone on for so long, just demonstrate that
there's a very messy relationship between these texts, and we're not going to get to the bottom of
that. And so, yeah, and I don't need to. I could already, with my own methodological tools,
understand how these texts would have registered in their final form and within the communities
where they got traction and met something. And so, but behind that, you can see some fairly
primitive kind of identity formation parts that first become visible in Matthew, whatever you
want to call it. If you want to call it Q and a textual document, it's fine. If you want to,
you know, go with Farr's hypothesis and Goodecker and all those guys that are trying to put together
a different hypothesis, that's fine too. My hypothesis doesn't necessarily, to me, it's a
fool's errand. It's not necessarily the reconstruction of Q being a fool's errand, but the idea that
you're going to somehow get to the bottom of a historical figure down in there. If there is one,
it's those earliest, most primitive layers. We get the same thing with Shakyamuni Buddha, you know,
if you start reading the Tripitaka and try to understand who the historical figure was,
the earliest you can get back to are these sayings that go back, they seem very primitive,
and they, this is as close as we can get, but you have to throw up your hands and say, you know,
I'm sorry, we can't get there. Not a satisfying answer for Jesus and dogmatic theology.
And since I'm not doing that, it's not that important to me.
But I do think that that figure, the best textual evidence that I could see is in the way often,
irrelevant often, and not the object of the gospel portraitures. Thank you.
I hope you liked my dad, Richard Miller, in this interview. Remember to like and subscribe,
and never forget, we are Mrs. Miller.
