Go in the description, subscribe to the New Testament Review podcast with Ian Mills and
Laura Robinson.
Ian Mills New Testament Podcast Review.
So you have, along with many other experts in the field, have an opinion, and I think
a good opinion, that the greatest scholar within the last century, at least, is E.P.
Sanders.
Would you please care to elaborate?
Ian Mills Yeah, I think E.P. Sanders is probably
the most important scholarly figure for the development of New Testament studies of the
last hundred years.
And this is true whether you study Paul, whether you work on the Gospels, whether you study
historical Jesus, or study ancient Judaism.
It's not that other people haven't made hugely important contributions or are not talking
about his personal character or anything like that.
If you just look at the way his publications in all of these different areas have radically
changed the trajectory of New Testament studies, I think it's undeniable that E.P.
Sanders is like the most important figure for doing this.
And we can look at each of these individually.
I mean, his book, Paul and Palestinian Judaism, which I happened to have pulled down here,
is the beginning of the new perspective on Paul.
In this book, he surveys all of our ancient Jewish sources from, it's like 100 BCE to
80, and shows for the first time, like persuasively demonstrates, that this image we had inherited
from pretty much the Reformation, but also going back earlier to figures like Augustine,
of Judaism as this petty fogging belief that people trying to earn their salvation, that
works.
There was a faith of merit and that people like Paul were walking around with guilt,
and then Jesus comes onto the scene to save them from all that.
All of that is an anti-Catholic polemic built about of the Reformation that is Martin Luther
criticizing his contemporary Roman Catholics and projecting that onto Jesus and Paul's
Jewish contemporaries.
And if you go back and look and read these texts, if you read the Dead Sea Scrolls, if
you read the Aramaic Targum, if you read the intertestamental Jewish literature, the help
literature from the Hellenistic period, you find that that portrayal of Judaism just doesn't
exist.
Judaism was a faith of grace.
They believed that God out of his grace chose to give them the covenant, and the covenant
had built into it.
It wasn't that they were walking in with guilt, unable to get themselves fixed.
God had given them a covenant that had forgiveness built into it.
It had a way to get yourself right, and that whenever Jesus came along and did, whatever
Paul believed was true about Jesus, it wasn't that he was coming into Judaism and fixing
it.
He wasn't coming along, and there was this problem that they had developed this guilt,
that they didn't have a way to keep the law, that they viewed the law as some sort of oppressive
thing which they had to struggle to maintain.
None of that accurately represents anything we find in Jewish sources.
And then figures later, like Christor Stendall, I mean, Christor Stendall writes before Sanders,
but figures like Christor Stendall also noticed, that's not what Paul says about Judaism
himself.
That's not what Paul says about himself.
When he talks in Philippians about his past, when he talks about Galatians, he says, I
was righteous before the law.
I had everything going on great.
I had it made in the shade.
And then I discovered Jesus, and I realized all of that was for naught.
So E. B. Sanders transformed how we think and talk about Paul.
The same time his book, Jesus and Judaism, was a revolution in historical Jesus studies.
It advocates, it made mainstream the view of Jesus as an apocalyptic prophet that Albert
Schweitzer had advocated.
Someone who saw himself as fulfilling and participating in and prophesying and anticipating
the end of the world, the eschaton predicted in the prophets, and probably saw himself
as going about to fulfill that.
And Sanders is the person who makes Jesus' actions at the temple, both what we call,
sometimes is wrongly called the cleansing of the temple.
The temple tantrum is how E. J. Levine refers to it, sees that, and then also Jesus' statements
about the temple, which are reflected differently in different Gospels.
We can talk about that another time, as being sort of central to reconstructing a plausible
image of Jesus as an apocalyptic prophet.
One of his lesser known, lesser regarded works is his tendencies of the synoptic tradition.
It's partially lesser known because it was so effective.
Tendencies of the synoptic tradition, I think, is what killed what's called form criticism.
One of the mainstream ways of talking about the Gospels, that we can see these independently
circulating individual pericapies that change in predictable ways over time, and use those
tendencies to sort of reconstruct a historical Jesus.
People don't do that anymore, and Sanders is the reason people don't do that.
Sanders showed us that wherever we can control that, wherever we can test that, using the
text tradition, using non-conical Gospels, using redaction within Gospels that are uncontroversial,
that Mark came before Matthew and Luke, those things don't work.
It's more or less a negative argument that shows that form criticism, the basic principles
of form criticism, don't work.
It was so effective, running against what was the mainstream view, that a lot of people
have forgotten about it, because it just demolished an entire way of studying the Gospels.
In the last work I wanted to pull out, it's not the last one in my bookshelf, but my favorite
primer for just understanding Judaism at the time of Jesus is this massive tome, 700 pages
written by E.P. Sanders, called Practice and Belief, 63 BC to 66 CE, and it's a super
accessible work that is not, I mean, there's very few footnotes, and it's really synthetic.
He's not walking you through the temple scroll or Josephus.
He's doing topically, saying, okay, what can we say about how people in the Second Temple
Period practiced the Passover, what they did, and he brings up all these sources, because
he has a better knowledge of these than almost anyone living, because he's read everything,
and he shows us what this is what we can say, look at this diversity of practice, everyone
seems to be agreed about these sorts of things, and it's just, I mean, there is, in my mind,
there's no better primer on just what Judaism looked like at the time than E.P. Sanders.
So there you have revolutions in Paul, in historical Jesus, in the study of the Gospels,
and in the study of ancient Judaism, and so much of what he was arguing for against the
mainstream view is now just uncontroversial.
Wow.
Serious scholar, and he has many other works that you have been influenced by and learned
from.
Yeah, I mean, he's got, obviously, lots of published articles.
He's got a shorter introduction to the historical Jesus that's just called the historical Jesus.
I don't think it's as good or as influential as Jesus in Judaism, but it's also a helpful
work.
He distills, in the historical Jesus, he says, he says, there are basically 10 propositions
we can say about Jesus.
He says, stuff beyond this, you know, maybe some of it's true, maybe some of it's not,
but we can basically say 10 basic things about who Jesus was, and it's portraying him more
or less as an apocalyptic prophet in the tradition of John the Baptist, in the tradition of several
figures Josephus mentions as being contemporaries, and, you know, that's super helpful.
He's also done work on Jewish and Christian self-identity and a variety of other miscellaneous
publications, of course.
