The idea of the brain, the past and future of neuroscience by Matthew Cobb, let me tell
you this was one of the better interviews that I've done pertaining to the subject of
the mind or if you will the brain, I can use the term.
In antiquity people understood the heart to be where you think and they didn't really
understand the brain's purpose.
In this book he spells all of this out very nicely.
But in the episode you get to hear how we developed our understanding and our science
progressively got more accurate and where we're headed in a good direction I hope on
trying to understand and solve some of the mysteries that we haven't known, the age
old questions.
Will we finally at some point possibly figure out what consciousness really is and understand
it?
Well, stay tuned and let us know what you think.
Drop a comment, this will be released early on Patreon.
We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
I'm your host, Derek Lambert, as usual.
If you're new to the podcast, hit that like button, subscribe and hit the bell so you
guys are notified when we drop these amazing shows with all of these scholars in various
fields across the world.
That's what MythVision does.
We're on an exploration to try and figure out what is going on, right?
What's the reality of the situation and hearing various takes on it, whether it be consciousness,
whether it's mythology, historical Jesus, God's existence.
You can go on and on.
I'm going to be interviewing a UFO skeptic in the least the recent situation with everybody
going crazy.
You know, I'm really, really skeptical of these claims and so I want to challenge them.
I want to see, are there better explanations that suit it?
Well, today I have Dr. Matthew Cobb.
I hope you don't mind me calling you doctor.
Is that okay?
Whatever.
Yeah.
Well, ladies and gentlemen, be sure to go check out his book in the description.
Dr. Matthew Cobb is a British.
Am I saying that right, Cobb?
Yeah, that's fine.
Excellent.
He's a British zoologist and professor of zoology at the University of Manchester.
Dr. Cobb earned his BA in psychology at the University of Sheffield.
During the second year of his undergraduate studies, he read an article about the recent
discovery and I'm going to butcher this.
The Drosophilia.
Drosophila.
Drosophila.
Drosophila, Melinda Gaster.
That's good enough.
Yeah.
Duns Mutant and New Scientist and decided to focus on behaviors, genetics and fruit flies.
Later saying he went on to do or went on to do my PhD there in psychology and genetics.
Looking at the mating behavior of seven species of fruit fly, psychology in those days was
as much about animal behavior as it was about human psychology and I was lucky enough to
be in one of the few places in the UK that studied it.
That's fascinating that you say that because your book, it demands and I got to say this
as a lay person, we don't realize, I think we don't realize the animal kingdom's importance
in coming to understand the anatomy, the psychology, everything.
When we do come to appreciate it, we can come to understand ourselves a little better.
I'm into mythology stuff so I know you probably don't comment on religious topics and things
like that often.
You stick in your field of science but too often we think we just, we were planted or
some divine being made us in a mud or we descended from a god or something like that and to me
I want to understand what really happened.
So that's what MythVision is all about in your book.
Your book was something else on this topic so I want everybody to check out the books,
go to Amazon.com and he's got more than one.
So you do with the animals or, sorry, insects, insect taste, is this you?
Life's greatest.
Wow, okay, the race to crack the genetic code.
So there's so much.
The book we're going to deal with though.
There's one over there and me as well.
Oh really?
Go back, yeah, go back and there's, I can come on, those two up there, those on the right.
Carry on over.
They're all me.
The resistance and 11 days in August.
I've written two books about the history of World War II as well.
Wow.
Okay.
This is the book.
Go get those books down in the description, Amazon.
The idea of the brain, I love how you titled this because it's truly what your book's about.
The past and future of neuroscience.
And so I hope today to have you kind of take us through your book, making my job a little
easier.
That's cheating.
Come on.
I'm trying.
I'm trying.
I think it's important though that you just kind of do an airplane view.
Your book goes into far more detail of what happened, but let me at least open up the topics
and say the heart, right?
So I'm going to go through the categories of each chapter that your book deals with.
And what I found fascinating is you do deal with the ancient world, which requires us
to get into ancient texts, which oftentimes are religious in nature.
And what is the heart?
Well, we thought the mind in the ancient world was the organ of the heart.
This whole entrails, your organs inside your body, but not this pink, gushy thing.
There was no blood around it.
Can you take us through that whole thing?
Yeah.
I mean, you can see this in English or you can hear it in English and in other languages
that your listeners may speak.
They will come across the same phrases, things like wear your heart on your sleeve.
My heart was in my mouth.
I'm down at heart and so on and so on.
So there's all these phrases that are generally about emotions and feelings and they suggest
that it's your heart that's doing these things or these things are in some way located in
your heart rather than being in your brain.
And that's very striking.
And the phrases are clearly some kind of linguistic fossil.
They're a remnant of an old time when we thought that that was the case.
And why did we think that?
Why did people think that around the world?
Well, that's what it feels like.
You know, when you're excited, you don't feel excited up here.
You feel excited in your heart, your heart's pounding.
You might feel, you know, in your guts, your stomach might start churning and so on.
So the interaction between your emotions, your sentiments, your feelings, your thoughts
and your body is very, very intimate and real and very important and tends to get forgotten.
But it's there in our everyday experience.
And if you try replacing the word brain instead of heart in those sentences, then they just
sound completely crazy.
They just don't make any sense.
They have completely lost their power.
You've broke my brain.
Yeah.
Okay.
Well, you do say that, but that's kind of different.
That's a modern, it doesn't mean the same thing anymore, you know, it would have to
be me explaining quantum mechanics.
Oh.
Fine.
Would have already be broken.
So you can see that there's this link between the heart and feelings and emotion in our language.
And as I say, this is true in many, many different.
I dig about and see how widespread was this and to my not surprised, but I just noted
that in fact, this was pretty much everywhere.
So you can see this in ancient Egyptian texts.
You can see this in the Bible, although the Bible also does the Old Testament, also does
suggest that maybe it's the liver is where many of your sentiments reside, which is kind
of bizarrely specific, but why not?
And in particular, this was the case in the 19th century, anthropologists went to all
up and down the Americas to discuss with indigenous peoples about all sorts of beliefs
that they had.
And they all reported all the indigenous peoples and the native peoples of North America in
particular, or reported that they felt that in some way, the heart was where your key
spirit was.
Like few of them thought that maybe there was some kind of more cooler conceptualization
would go on the head, but basically the heart was where the action was.
Now we don't know that those views are actually those of pre-Columbian, pre-contact views.
So people will have been in contact with those of white people who were going, no, no, don't
be silly, it's the brain.
But the consistency of those comments tends to confirm that.
Now there are some slight exceptions to this, and the two of them are quite interesting.
First is China.
So Chinese thought and ideas were in general about not so much localizing things, and this
is not just about consciousness and emotion, but in general, but rather a look at contesting
forces.
So this wasn't something that they were terribly interested in, but the first mention we've
got of Chinese thinkers imagining that it's something to do with the brain is in about
the 17th century when contact with the West was already highly established.
And the other fascinating exception, and this came to me right at the very last minute,
just as we were correcting the proofs of the book, was that what about the Australian
Aborigines?
Because of course, you've got to have oral records, there are no written records that
can help you with this.
We've got to go back to oral records to get deep into human prehistory.
And I couldn't find any sources that suggested anything really about Australian Aboriginal
thinking.
And I got a big encyclopedia of Australian ideas, and the brain was just mentioned a
couple of times, but not in terms of their ideas, but in terms of people's interpretation
of various things.
And eventually, I got hold of an Aboriginal scholar, I sent them an email and said, can
you help me with this because I already don't understand.
And their basic answer was, well, the question of where is your mind or spirit located?
That wouldn't mean anything.
It's a nonsensical question because their view of being is that you are intimately connected
with the land.
You are not simply, you know, this thing floating around in a body, wherever it might be located,
but you are actually your spirit and everything about you is connected with the territory
on where you grew up and the landscape and the animals and everything that lives there.
So I thought that was very interesting as a perception perhaps of a deeper and older
truth than those that I've been looking at.
But basically, what you find is that everybody thinks it's the heart, more or less, apart
from the Australian Aborigines and the Chinese, but everybody else, especially in Europe and
in the Americas, are fairly convinced that the heart is where the action is.
And the first people to question this systematically were some of the ancient Greeks.
Now, not all of them thought this Aristotle was very much convinced the brain was simply
there to cool the blood and the blood was the source of life and energy and thought
and emotion and spirit and all the rest.
And of course, if you do a little bit of opening up of an animal, you know, a farm animal,
you find that its heart is these, all these vessels which we can feel pulsating are all
through the heart.
And we know from our own experience that the heart changes its activity and motion was
extremely important in terms of thinking about how spirit, ideas, linked with reality, that
motion was how you could tell something was going on and the brain doesn't do anything.
You know, you might have a headache, you might have a pulsing headache, but apart from that,
you don't feel anything movement in your brain when you're thinking about something.
And so the problem for the ancient Greeks was that, well, OK, so you think some group
of you think it's in the brain.
How can you prove this?
And the answer was they couldn't really.
They didn't really have any basis for deciding between the two views.
The first person to actually do an experiment to try and demonstrate this, which I describe
in the book is big gruesome.
So yeah, listeners might wish to turn off for a couple of minutes and come back to make
sure you come back there.
And this is an experiment by Galen, who was a Roman citizen.
So he's working in the second century of the common era.
And he was Greek, but he was born in what is now Turkey.
So it's a very complicated person.
He's generally known now as the father of what passed for medicine in the West for about
1500 years.
So he's an incredibly influential person in terms of his influence, especially in Western
Europe and in the Arab world.
But he also was a poet and a philosopher and all sorts of other things.
But above all, he was a physician.
And he did used to attend the gladiators who had been hacking each other to bits in the
arena.
And one of the things he noticed was that you could get gladiators could be wounded and
damaged to their what we would call the left recurrent laryngeal nerve, which goes from
here on the top left hand, front left hand side of your brain down, loops around the
heart and comes back and controls your voice box.
And he noticed that if you damaged this, this nerve, then you the gladiators couldn't
speak or their difficulty speaking.
And he then thought about this and he developed it.
And he ended up showing that it was the brain and not the heart that controlled the voice
that controlled movement and action and the production of sound by doing this unpleasant
experiment on a pig.
And to cut it cut a very long story short, a gruesome story short.
What's fascinating about this is that this isn't just an experiment that he does and
writes down.
It's something he does in public with his with his contradictory.
So he gets somebody else in who says, look, I think your bonkers, it's nothing to do with
the brain. It's all the heart.
And basically again, it says, OK, well, let's find out.
And he's got all his mates and all the learner people around.
So you get this poor old pig, pigs conscious.
That's significant.
There's obviously no anesthetics.
It's bound and gagged and all the rest of it, but it can still whimper and whine.
And so they open up the pig.
It's not very happy.
It's making quite a racket.
And Galen says to the heart opponent says, right, hold the heart.
Stop the heartman moving.
And of course, you can do this.
It's pretty horrible.
Messy, down he's holding the heart.
And the heart's not the heart can now longer, longer beat.
And as I'm sure you can imagine, the animal carries on making a noise.
So it's clearly not the movement of the heart that is decisive.
On the other hand, if you then open up the skull and then press on the brain,
yeah, then instantly, the pig becomes unconscious.
And what this showed by experimentation was that the the brain was the source
of the voice at least.
And because of anatomical evidence showing that all these nerves,
these fibers seem to be going up to the brain and not to the heart.
That again, strongly suggested that was something going on up here
because it's connected to all the bits that are interesting.
Whereas the heart, although it is connected to the blood,
which is extremely important and was clearly quite mysterious.
On the other hand, the brain had lots and lots of connections going up to it.
So you might think, well, that sorted it.
Everybody, you know, Gelin's done this horrible experiment.
Everybody knows this because it was well known.
It was written down, it was copied, you know, books, of course,
were just handwritten in those days had to be copied by by monks.
And then by people in the Arab world who got very, very interested
in about the eighth and ninth century, both in copying and translating
ancient Greek texts and ancient Roman texts, but also developing their own
thought, and this was incredibly significant for what eventually became
the Renaissance in Western Europe.
But the problem was it didn't actually convince anybody
because everyday experience tells you completely opposite.
You might say, OK, that's great.
Yeah, you tell me that stuff about the pig.
I heard that. Yeah.
But look, when I get excited and feel these emotions, it's my heart.
You're telling me it's up here.
That doesn't make any sense at all.
So what's striking is there is no moment.
There is no brain centric experiment.
There is no decisive ha ha moment where everybody says, oh,
when apples dropped on my head, therefore, there's a theory of gravity.
I mean, clearly that didn't happen either.
But there's, you know, there's you can't point to a single moment
where everybody becomes convinced or even a majority of people can become convinced.
And instead, what you have is a slow accumulation of evidence,
in particular, anatomical evidence with the Salius, the great anatomist.
In 1415, 43, when he publishes his his book of human anatomy,
showing just the complexity of the brain.
Other people have done this before,
but the Salius gets all the credit because his book is absolutely
extraordinary, there's fantastic drawings in it and so on.
And the Salius is convinced that the heart is just, as was said in the beginning
of the 17th century by William Harvey, the heart is a pump.
So you've got a clear function for the heart.
The brain is not quite clear what's going on.
And in fact, that comes out in Shakespeare.
So Shakespeare, you know, knew his stuff.
He knew what was going on in the culture around him.
And he knew his audience did, too.
So he has a in 12th night.
No, it's Merchant of Venice.
In the Merchant of Venice is a song on a boring bit.
You skip over when you're at school and school plays never do.
But there's a song sung by somebody with a loot or something.
And the little ditty goes,
tell me where is fancy bread?
Fancy being imagination ideas.
Tell me where is fancy bread or in the heart or in the head?
So Shakespeare in 1602 is making this little joke, which is not
the point of the play at all, but it's just kind of an interlude.
And he knew that the groundlings, the people standing up in front of the stage,
who would hurl rotten eggs at the actors that they didn't like it,
they would understand this.
They knew that this was an unknown question.
This was something that people were arguing about.
And we didn't know the origin of ideas and thought and the site of consciousness.
And by the end of the 17th century, this is kind of this.
And certainly into the 18th century, Western thinkers are now very,
very confident that the location of thought is in the brain and it's taken
as an evidence and that there's no real alternative.
Because the brain is much more complicated.
It's got all these connections with the various sense organs and your movement.
The heart doesn't.
And although the heart, it feels as though the heart is doing something.
And indeed, it is when we're excited.
This that's just something mysterious.
We can't figure that out.
It's clearly where the brain is.
If you damage your head, then you have problems with behavior, thought and all
the rest of it. If you damage your heart, it's not quite the same.
So by the middle of the 18th century, as far as the, well, let's call them
scientists, they weren't called that.
But then, you know, scientists, thinkers,
philosophers and physicians in the West, in Western Europe,
then the brain is the location of emotion.
On the other hand, for most people around the world, that didn't really make much sense.
Even today, I don't think it doesn't, to be honest.
That's what I was going to say.
Like, I mean, even I can relate to the experience of stress and heartache and what
not, we call it heartache does not hurt your heart, though, does it?
No, no, but you feel like it's right there.
It's in this.
And I think that obviously the brain is doing these things.
But what really, I think, struck me the most about the history of what you go
through in your book on that topic is if I were to play the flat earth role,
our perception from what we think from our perception, what makes the most
perceptual sense to us without getting deep into mathematics and understanding
curvature and all the complexities of trying to get to a circular global earth.
Our perception starts to change.
Science starts to rule out old age, old ideas and starts to make points that we
once believed were true and no longer are.
And I always point that back to superstitions.
And I don't mean that in a derogatory sense.
I mean, like beliefs and things we don't know, ghosts, demons, goblins, gods, etc.
And to me, it's like this goes to the conscious question.
We haven't solved consciousness.
And I know that you say up front in your book, this is not my goal is not to like
act like I'm going to solve the problem.
But what it does to me is it people go, this is a leap of faith, Derek.
You're taking a huge leap of faith.
I don't know how this is a leap of faith, because the men you kept writing about
in history, they all tried to say they all were talking about a spirit.
And there's a there's a there's a something that we don't understand is
the reason why we're going and they want to attribute it to a spirit.
It goes to soul, a God, whatever you'd like to call it in us.
And I wonder as we start to get more scientific and continue to learn more,
if that will be ruled out at some point and be explained.
And some people think that it should or it will be.
But maybe I'm asking you your opinion.
Well, I can't give you the answer.
When I was writing the book at one point, my editor emailed me said, so
how does the brain work?
I said, I have no idea.
I said, you can't say that you've got to have an answer.
You know, every book about the brain explains it one level or another as being
this or working like that.
I said, but nobody knows.
And I certainly don't know.
Nobody else does either.
If they say they do, then they are skipping over an awful lot of problems.
And that's just the case.
And he kind of in the end back down and it turned out that's actually been
it's been the USP because especially neuroscientists go.
Finally, somebody's saying what we all, you know, because we talk about this kind
of stuff, I mean, very, you know, consciousness for neuroscientists is quite.
I mean, it's a lot more respectable than it was when I was a student when it was
just simply for philosophers.
But even so, it's still a very it's a minority sport.
Most people don't aren't interested in it.
And well, then then certainly not studying it.
And I must admit, you know, I'm I'm not terribly interested in it.
I hear you. No, I get it because I am a scientist, right?
Right. And so as a scientist, I want to be able to pin down explanations.
And as a neuroscientist, I mean, what I actually do,
my day job is interpreting the behavior of maggots in terms of the activity of
single cells. So, you know, that level of precision where I still can't explain it.
But I can, you know, I can sense that in a few decades, my successors will do.
You compare that level of precision, which is actually understanding to
well, it works like a kind of quantum computer or whatever.
Yeah, whatever explanation people want.
I, you know, that's why I say I'm not interested.
Not that I don't think it's it's fascinating in terms of whether we will ever
able to know it in leaps of faith.
Well, you've got to remember, you know, physicists don't know whatever it is.
I know 90 percent of the universe is made of, right?
They don't know what dark matter is.
They all they can and dark energy all they can say is, look,
there's something missing.
Our equations say there should be this value and the data say there's this value
and this gap with no idea.
Now, I'm quite confident the physicists are going to work that out.
Right. That link of faith.
No, it's just on the basis of, you know, past performance is a good predictor in
some cases that having been said, my guess is that consciousness,
I mean, it's centuries away. Absolutely.
It's centuries away.
But nonetheless, science is still constantly
climbing and I can respect it on your book because I mean, look,
maybe we should delve into the second part here.
You kind of already dabbled into some of this other stuff,
forces and then electricity and function.
Would you take us into forces a little bit?
Yeah. So one of the themes of the book,
because the book was I mean, it was a long time in the writing.
And the thing about books is they they always turn out different from what you
expect. I mean, you can understand that in a novel unless you've got a really
tightly plotted detective story where, you know, you've got to have somebody
coming in with a gun at a certain moment or whatever, you know,
but for something that's historical, largely, not entirely, but largely.
Actually, you know, the fact that, well, how could that?
How could you not be sure what you were going to do?
The issue is interpretation.
That's why we've got all these rouse about history, both in the US and the UK,
because, you know, you might crudely think, well, history is just one damn thing after
another. Well, it isn't.
It's a series of selected damn things one after another and your choice of the
things that you think are interesting and the light that you cast them in and the
way that you you think about them, present them, that is then effectively an opinion.
And there are as many opinions about history as there are about politics today.
Nobody agrees today on lots of things from how to handle the pandemic to what
should we do with the deficit or whatever.
So, you know, there are political disagreements about all sorts of things,
not just party politics, but, you know, disagreements between people.
So there's different disagreements about history as well.
And the same is true of the history of science.
So interpreting what happened and trying to understand it
is fraught with argument and so on, because it's a series of choices.
And one of the I was having a hard time stopping this being boring, right?
So I was writing this stuff and it really was one damn thing after another.
And, you know, I just thought, why would anybody read this?
It's just, you know, and there's no kind of connecting thread.
And then gradually I realized that there was, in fact,
a thread going through the various bits of the book where I tell people what
happened and the link wasn't just, well, somebody did this after somebody else,
you know, sitting on the shoulders of giants, as Newton said.
But rather there was there was something
consistent in what people were trying to do in looking at the brain in new ways
with new technology, with new devices, with new recording instruments or whatever.
And that was making parallels at each stage.
They were making parallels between what the brain does
and how it does it and the highest technology of the time.
So this began back in the 17th century with Descartes and Descartes, the French
philosopher, he's the guy who said cogito ergo sum.
I think therefore I am.
And that's the starting point.
So the one thing he could be confident about was that he existed.
And the rest of it, well, he had to try and kind of build it up from there.
But Descartes wasn't just a philosopher.
He was also did dissections.
He thought very hard and worked very hard on on how bodies worked.
And he was very struck by these mechanical
hydraulic statues, kind of animatronics, crude animatronics they had in Paris,
public parks in the early 17th century.
And, you know, statues would move and do kind of robotic movements and all the rest
of it. And this was all done by weights and water moving up and down and so on.
And so Descartes thought, well, maybe that's how brains and bodies work.
Maybe there's this fluid, this kind of movement,
this kind of high pressure stuff that's going down from our brains and causing us
to behave in all sorts of ways.
Now, there's two things about that.
First, it's completely wrong.
And as soon as work was published after his death, people said, OK,
hmm, you're saying there's high pressure stuff.
Right, I'm going to chop a nerve.
Oh, nothing spurts out.
Right, OK, so you're wrong about that.
So it's clearly not hydraulics in the same way.
It's not literally true.
On the other hand, it gives you and it's trying to get at what's the underlying
mechanism for all these things and what's very, very clever.
I mean, I've kind of ridiculed him.
But, you know, Descartes was incredibly smart
because these statues weren't just around in France in the 17th century.
They've been around in antiquity.
The ancient Greeks and the ancient Romans have these things.
And none of those smart people looked to them and maybe what's going on here?
So, you know, Descartes parallel was in fact an act of genius.
It was wrong.
But the key point about ideas isn't that they're right because virtually no
idea is completely right, but does it enable you to progress?
Does it have what's called a heuristic value?
Does it does it help inquiry and understanding?
And Descartes's idea most certainly did.
The big change came and I'm getting on to you.
Yeah, yeah, the forces with the discovery of electricity in the middle of the 18th
century and initially this was just kind of a
it was trying to understand fundamental Benjamin Franklin and doing that crazy
thing with the key and the kite.
I mean, God knows how he wasn't killed by that.
But also people started to generate electricity.
And so there were people called electricians who that was the name of them.
And they would either wander around the countryside,
charge making static electricity by rubbing kind of wool against a ball of amber.
A bit like, you know, you do for your kids with a balloon in the, you know,
you get rub the balloon against your jumper and you stick it on the wall
and all the five year olds at the party go, dad, your magic.
No, just me.
Try it. That's great.
They love it. And then I then the
they would get this electric charge that they could store
in a jar and it would then give a sudden discharge if you contacted.
So basically you've got an electric.
It's not an electric battery yet because it's not
slow release of a current, but bang, you get a charge.
And you could show that this could produce movement.
In fact, one French philosopher got about 400 monks to hold hands with each other.
And then he got one of these big Liden jars, as they were called at the end.
And he charged the monk at the beginning.
And of course, the monks jumped in order as this incredibly fast electric
shot moved down the line.
It's a bit like being kicked by buying, you know,
touching a cattle fence, you know, you know about it.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah. So the idea was that people then thought, well, OK,
so that looks like electric is electricity a kind of super irritant?
Because they knew that, you know, clearly,
if you put some kind of acid on you or various chemicals, then it hurts and you
get movement, you can do this with an animal or move away from that.
So is electricity just an irritant or is it actually inside you?
And this kind of went on and developed
and there's a lot of argument and towing and throwing.
And eventually they kind of decided at the beginning of the 19th century
that there is electricity inside bodies and also, of course,
that you can animate bodies with life, with electricity.
And it looks like they're alive.
And one of the most famous series of kind of these these were done as kind of
public displays, you'd you could buy a ticket and go to the theater and watch
some bloke getting some batteries because they've been invented by this stage
and connecting the electrodes to say the head of a cow that had just been
decapitated backstage and then, you know, its eyes would roll and tongue would
come out and all the rest of it.
So really pretty gruesome stuff.
And if you were one of the select few,
then occasionally they would hang somebody, a criminal,
and then he would whisk his body away and into a room where you and a dozen
other people could see the same process happening.
And this would be quite terrifying because clearly you would, you know,
arms would move and so this was this was uncontrolled movement,
but it was movement in somebody who was dead.
So it looked as though they'd been
they've been brought back from the dead and this gave a strong
suggestion that electricity was not simply the super irritant, but was actually
in the in our nerves and was an essential part of life.
And it's thought, but it can't be proven that one of the in about 1815,
one of the displays of this at the Royal
Institution in London, not with a human, but with animal bodies,
a young girl called Mary Godwin, who was about 15 at the time,
witnessed this a couple of years later.
She'd run off with a very famous poet called Percy Bischelli and was on holiday
and it was very, very wet and they were on holiday in Italy and sorry,
in they were on holiday in Switzerland and they
told each other ghost stories and she came up with the idea of Frankensteins.
That's where Mary Shelley, we think, got the idea for.
So basically you've now got this new technology, this new source of power,
and that power is then harness by ingenious humans and you get something
like the telegraph system, which snakes across Europe,
which goes across the continental United States.
And it starts to look when you look at a map of, say,
the the telegraph network in the UK, then I say this sadly as a mancunian.
Manchester is not the capital of the UK.
Great. It's always been a bit of a mystery why it's not.
But anyway, the all of these.
Telegraph connections go to London.
And you can see that they're connected.
You know, there's the centre and then all these connections spreading out
and this metaphor developed whereby people said, well,
this is like a body that they they said that the the actual country is organised
like a body with all the centre, the decisive centre being in London.
And information actually talked about that is goes down to the provinces,
which can then act upon it and so on as these messages go down the telegraph system.
So people said it that metaphor work both ways, just as the
telegraph system and that the organisation of the country seem to represent a body.
So they argued, well, the body and the brain are basically like a kind of telegraph system.
The problem with that was a very powerful idea because it then raised the question,
well, what exactly is going down our nerves then?
OK, I can understand.
I've got a Morse code message going from, you know, the centre in London down to,
you know, up to Manchester, say, make more cotton or something, you know,
we can sell loads of it. OK, I get that.
But what's what's what's happening in the brain?
And this became much more problematic.
And the organisation of the brain, if you thought about it a bit,
was clearly different because the point about a telegraph system,
it goes from A to B, it's fixed, right?
And you can't send a telegram to change its route, change its direction.
It's all it's all rigid.
You have to go to the get somebody to go to from the telegraph office,
brings the telegram to your door to say, yes, you have won the lottery or whatever.
You know, you get the message that way.
The Queen sends you a telegram when you're 100 years old,
which we still happens in the UK.
We don't have telegrams, but the Queen still sends you.
It's very mysterious how she manages to do.
So the difference is that clearly brains are a lot more flexible than that.
And in about 1880, with the development of the telephone,
people started to say, well, look, what about telephone exchanges?
Because a telephone exchange, if, you know,
then some of the younger listeners and viewers may not know how it used to work.
But in the old days, before you had even a fixed phone, a landline,
you would have to pick up the watch an old black and white film on YouTube.
You'll see you have to pick up the phone and talk to an operator.
And the operator would then put a wire between your number
and the number you wanted to connect.
And clearly, you could want to talk to lots of people in the local area,
or you might want to go to a different exchange.
And so she, Jenny, was a she, would then connect you to another exchange.
And then you would go through the same process.
So this wire that could move was flexible and
your voice could go down the wire in all sorts of different places.
And this seemed much more like the kind of complexity
that the brain seems to have in both its structure and its function.
And so by the end of the the 19th century, this, you know, we'd moved on.
We had hydraulic statues, then we'd have just something kind of electric.
Then we had a telegraph system, then we had a telephone exchange.
And things were starting to seem you could see that there's this connection
between technology and our ideas.
So to get back to my answer to your question,
this is what I began to realize was the thread in the book.
And once I had that, I felt much happy about it.
And it started to make a lot more sense.
And so the theme, the underlying theme, which takes us
not only to the present day, but into the future, because that's the other way
the book structured, I realized that there was this past section,
which was going to deal with the development of our knowledge,
but also the various metaphors that have gone with the development of our knowledge.
So parallels between brain and technology, contemporary technology,
that would take us basically up to the end of the Second World War.
And then so that in the book is entitled Past.
And then there's a book part called Present, which is about basically the last
70 years in which I argue,
occasionally to the irritation of my colleagues, that we haven't made any
fundamental development since then.
Generally, when I talk to people, we talk it through, it's OK.
So they get irritated because it's like I'm saying, oh, I haven't done anything,
which is just not true. Right.
Quite the opposite. We know an incredible amount.
What I'm interested in is the way we conceive of what brains do.
The idea of the brain, that's the point of the title.
Right. That's what it's about.
And so you've got a second half, which is about effectively where we are at the moment.
And once I realized that, it became
much easier because it meant that I I could I'd had this essentially chronological
description up until then, up until 1950.
And the problem after 1950 is that it's just, you know, I there could be books
written about every year or every subject.
So I ended up choosing a number of subjects.
And basically then it develops in parallel with similar developments in different themes
until we end up in the third half.
Well, it's kind of third half, a little bit at the end, which is the future,
which is not what scientists normally do, which is to speculate about where we're going.
And I that, as I said, that goes against the grain, both as a historian and as a
scientist, but I know it's what readers want.
Yeah, I mean, you saw my inclination was to ask you not because I know you know,
or even try to put you on the spot because this is exactly what happens.
And I don't blame scientists for being this way.
It's like, stop guessing.
We don't know to have empirical facts.
They did this all throughout the ancient world.
Well, if they could do it, why don't we guess we're not?
Now, here's the thing.
I'm not saying that we're supposed to put some weight on this guess,
but it's fun to to I get that I do understand it.
I appreciate it.
Yeah.
But, you know, one of the
one of the things that is significant is that and it's the end of the
it's the end of the introduction to the book.
And it's one of the things I say to my students
every year over and over again, they get very cross with me sometimes in some
courses, is that the three most important words in science are we don't know.
So knowing stuff is great.
I mean, it's fantastic knowing stuff.
But to be honest, you know, these days with your phone,
everybody can know it's just going to know the right question to ask.
And Google will tell you to the right place.
So knowing stuff is great, but it's not quite what it's cracked up to be.
And, you know, as long as you've got the inclination and a few requisite skills,
anybody can learn about anything pretty much.
I mean, there are some things you can't.
I mean, I can't learn about quantum mechanics, right?
Because my and this is literally the case.
My my my brain has frozen since adolescence in a not particularly maths
oriented situation, right, configuration.
There's the word. So, you know, if you want me to learn maths,
I can do really crude stuff, but nothing, you know, intelligent enough.
Similarly, if I was to start learning a musical instrument,
these very interesting language, music, maths, they're very simply related.
And that's why kids absorb language like a sponge.
If you go and live in a foreign country with your little kids,
you know, who are four, five, six, they're going to speak the language
perfectly in a few weeks if you allow them to just chat with other kids.
And, you know, that's why you that's why you get, you know,
mass geniuses who are preteens and Mozart composing symphonies when he's five.
You don't get people writing brilliant novels when they're five.
You just can't do it.
You know, that's about something else.
That's about different kinds of skills.
So, yeah, I can't do maths, but I can learn about lots of other things.
But the interesting thing about science is knowing what we don't know
and then thinking of a way of how we could answer that question.
I mean, that's what I find most exciting and challenging.
And when you you realize that there's a gap in knowledge, you then have to think,
well, OK, what's a realistic and effective way of answering this?
So to get to your consciousness question, it started with.
Yeah, you could say, OK, right.
You what is consciousness?
Well, I'm going to develop a device that's going to measure it.
And I've now got a consciousness meter.
And well, you know, you're not because you can't even define it first, right?
So that immediately asks the question of how are you going to measure this thing
that you're interested in to find out what it is and how it works?
How are you going to measure it?
How are you going to manipulate it?
How are you going to try and capture it in the end?
Turn it into numbers, which is one of the key things that science does.
And then you get into, well, what can you not so much?
What would I like to know?
But what can I know?
What is possible for me as an individual or as a member of a research team?
What can we find out?
What skills do we have?
Or could we reasonably acquire or equipment that we could reasonably acquire?
Can we use to answer this question?
What you generally find is that really interesting thing way up there.
You want to know the answer to you can't.
You've got to take an incremental step and just get to the next bit and answer
that tiny little question.
And in general, that's what most of us do.
And we're we're satisfied with that.
I mean, I want to know how smells are represented in the brain and how
brains function to interpret smells and how they're because smell is my
is my kind of main subject.
But I think I was in any kind of animal.
But I'm doing is studying the activity of single cells in maggots, right?
Because I can do that and we can answer that question.
So science is about the doable.
It's about things that you can answer.
So that's yeah.
And that's a long winded way of saying that realizing this kind of
historical path of development was
interesting for me as a writer and as somebody
probably going to the end of his career into look back on kind of things that
I've been thinking about since I was a student in the 1970s.
So many of these things that I I hadn't realized were going to be in the book
kind of muscle their way in and convince me.
I thought, wait a minute, I'm sure I remember us arguing about that,
you know, 1976 or something.
And then you think, OK, my goodness me that.
Yeah, my teachers were pretty smart.
That's the other thing I realized is my lecturers were right on the money
and knew exactly what was exciting and the key areas of the unknown or the weird
or the slightly do we really believe that and then have since been kind of abandoned?
So there are lots of dead ends.
That's the other thing in the book is that science scientists love to present
history as this endless chain of great men, normally as great men,
leading up inevitably to them of the pinnacle and their particular topic.
And of course, that's not how it works at all,
because it's this terribly braided complex history with basically loads of mistakes
in it, you know, and it's the mistakes that are often as interesting as the actual
insight. Right.
The revelations that come from the mistakes are sometimes the best part.
Yeah, absolutely.
Um, real quick, you said in a heard you in your last podcast,
but I also think you said this in your book that you can create a smell
that a bug has never or an insect or maybe even an animal has never smelled.
Yeah.
Can you explain what that is before we let you go?
OK, well, first everybody can do this right now.
I can make you do something.
I can make you see something that isn't there right now.
If you shut your eye, shut one eye or shut both your eyes better, press your eyeballs.
Not too hard.
But if you press your eyeballs, you'll see light.
Yep. Move your fingers around a bit.
You know, if you move your fingers around over the surface, your eyeball with your
fingernails, you can see light, you can sense light.
Right. What's that?
That's not light.
Your eyes are shut.
OK, so what's happened is that your
physical pressure from your finger has activated the cells in your retina.
You're right, you know, blinded yourself there.
No. Yeah.
Folks, don't stick pins in your eyes, right?
You know, you've all done this.
Everybody knows this, you know.
So the point there is that the one stimulus, physical pressure,
has activated neurons, which your brain can only interpret as light,
because that's that's what a signal from the retina means.
And it was Von Helmholtz, the great physiologist in the 19th century,
who worked this out.
And this is part of the key thing about saying about realizing that, in fact,
it goes back to what we were saying about the beginning, about why introspection,
about how things seem is a very poor guide for understanding how the brain
works, because we're continually deceived, right?
I've just deceived you by making you see light that isn't there.
Right.
There is in your visual field at this very moment.
If someone doesn't believe they can go into a pitch black room with no light and do
that practice, right?
So at the moment, in your visual field,
there is a patch that you can't see.
There's a patch where there is no signal coming in because it's the part of the
retina where all the cells converge and form the optic nerve.
And in that part of the retina, there are no detectors.
So if you stare straight ahead, then a patch around about on the right and the
left in the middle of your visual field is, in fact, blurry.
You don't sense that as a whole because your brain thinks, OK, well,
we can just be like Photoshop, just blur that in, you know,
just use the stamp tool, the bits around it, just put it in there.
It makes it plus in everyday experience, not in an experiment where you've got
to stare fixedly at a point in everyday experience, your eyes moving all the time.
So you're filling in the what's over in those gaps.
So our perception is not real, right?
It's not actually the way the world is.
It's a filtered version of it.
You know, the fact that you can't see UV light, you can only see the colors
on on on flowers, on a white flower.
If you get a black lamp, a UV light and you shine that on and then it
iridesces in the spectrum, we can see.
You can't see all spectrums.
You can't hear all frequencies.
And we accept those limits.
But if you just take that step forward, then it means that, in fact,
your perception is not, you know, you haven't got a little mini me sitting in
your head, looking out of the window or looking at the screen, right?
Which is the way it's characterized in films like, you know, inside out or whatever.
And, you know, that that's the way it feels.
If you think about it a little bit, but it's not that way at all.
So that principle that we just showed with the eyes, you can do that in an animal.
You can get a cells, receptors, little
proteins that will respond to light and using the power of modern genetics,
you can introduce them into particular cells.
So in the case of a maggot, my little wriggly maggots, it's a baby fly.
I can put one of these receptors into the cells that detect smells.
And then what happens if I shine a light on that cell,
then the neuron, because it's a nerve cell, it responds, it fires just like it does
when you press your eyeballs, they fire, they're responding to a stimulus.
That stimulus, it doesn't matter what it is.
In this case, it's now because I've turned,
effectively, the bit of the smell cell into a light detecting cell.
It will now fire when I shine light on it.
And the maggots will then move in a certain
direction if they think the smell, the light is, they move towards the light
because they think it's the smell.
If you turn the light off, then they don't smell anything more.
So you can do this with mice as well.
You can make a mouse, remember something.
You alter particular parts of its brain that are associated with memory.
You can make the mouse remember something that is never experienced.
So you don't need to be Philip K. Dick and see this can be quite scary.
It can also be amazing.
You may have seen just last week,
there is a French group who've used the same principle and they have put these
these op this called optogenetics because it's genetics and it's opto,
it's visual. They put particular
optogenetic receptors into the retina of somebody who's congenitally blind.
Right.
And then it's not quite as dramatic as you might think.
They have restored some site, but he's got to wear special mask,
special eye, eye, eye pieces, you know, pair of glasses.
And that then shines particular light frequencies onto these cells,
which he can now interpret with a lot of training.
He's been able to interpret.
He can see the world around him in very, you know, like like your eye in very dim
light, so he can see light and dark.
He can see objects out there.
So there's the potential there.
And this is a long, long way away,
but that shows the potential of this not just to be some kind of macabre
scientific nightmare, but actually to literally to enable the blind to see.
That that's their end goal.
Again, I think this is a long way off.
Yeah.
Decades and decades.
It really is a long way off, but it shows the power.
And above all, it shows, as I said, that we're fooling ourselves,
our brains are fooling ourselves, this impression we have of this limpid world
of this, you know, it's just out there and we're just looking through a glass.
We're not at all.
We're looking through this incredibly filtered, processed view of the world.
And not just this view, vision, but sound, smell, taste, all of our sensory
experience is filtered and processed.
And what Helmholtz said in the 19th century,
it's absolutely amazing.
He says the brain makes inferences.
It makes guesses about what is out there.
And then it interprets things in that way.
And I think that's, you know, this that takes us, you know, we haven't yet talked
about the brain as a computer, which is what we all think the brain is now.
But that tells us that the brain is doing something very, very different
from simply calculating, right?
It is not simply, it's not passive.
It's a very, very active organ that's working out what there is out there
and interpreting it in certain ways.
And then that in ways we have no idea how it works,
that becomes perception and our mind gets involved.
And in some animals, I guess, there's a mind as well.
Is there a mind in a maggot?
I don't know.
I used to be very kind of bullish about this and say, no, no, no, no, no.
It's only humans and maybe a few great apes.
I'm kind of getting a bit softer in my old age, partly because I don't know.
And I do talk about the mind of a maggot a few times.
And it's partly because I don't know what a mind is.
I'm happy to to inflict it upon a maggot.
But maybe they have some dim
kind of self-awareness as well.
I don't know.
Interesting.
Yeah, I guess,
eventually, we'll be able to plant false memories in people.
We probably could do that already based on what you're describing here.
Well, we I mean, there's a lot of that.
I mean, you know, there's been a it was a whole industry
in false memory therapy where people therapists were claiming that people
had suppressed memories of terrible things, which weren't just the usual
kind of Freudian stuff about you loved your mother, but actually awful,
dreadful things that happened in their past.
And this often got in the 70s and 80s.
This got all linked in with demonic cults and stuff like this.
And it was all nonsense.
People ended up believing it.
Oh, yeah. I know one guy who thinks he's Jesus from Australia.
Yeah. Well, yeah.
So, you know, that can already happen.
We can all be convinced of nonsense, unfortunately.
Dr. Cobb, I can't tell you how amazing this information is.
Your book is a must read for anybody who's interested in this kind of stuff.
There's so much he did not talk about on this.
Yeah, there's way too much.
Even in the material he was talking about, he didn't talk about it.
Like the fluid arguments that that nerves have.
There's so much about the mistakes that are revelations to understanding now
where we're at and how to get closer to try and figure out these things.
You got to check his book out.
It's an absolute must read.
Ladies and gentlemen, make sure you go in the description.
Get it. It's right here.
It's right here.
And then if you want, go check out his other material as well.
He's got other books and it deals into this
interesting stuff about insects and animals.
And oh, this is amazing.
Thank you so much for your time.
I really appreciate it.
You're very welcome. It's been great.
Yeah, I'd like to do more on your other books at some point in the future if you're fine.
No problem at all. Just drop me an email.
Thank you, Dr. Cobb.
Ladies and gentlemen, in case you, I don't know, have memory loss and that typically
can happen, let me plant something in your memory so you're reminded.
We are MythVision.
