You might have heard that God had a wife, the Goddess Asherah.
Up until 100 years ago, the very existence of Asherah was often denied by historians
and Bible scholars.
But the discovery of the Ugaritic text in 1929 revealed a rich mythology about this goddess
and eliminated any doubt that the numerous Biblical references to Asherah were connected
to this same goddess.
The tablets of Ugarit provided unacellable proof of a pre-Biblical Canaanite pantheon
of gods that included not only familiar names like Baal and Dagon, but also the Israelite
high god El himself.
Asherah, it turns out, was El's wife and a major deity in her own right.
Asherah's origins go back much further than Ugarit.
Her name can be found on tablets and inscriptions ranging far and wide, from the ancient Hittite
empire to Syria, Mesopotamia, and Southwestern Arabia.
However, as the Biblical and Archaeological evidence shows, it was in Israel where Asherah
truly found a home and a place in the hearts of her people.
Asherah was not merely a Canaanite goddess, she was, in every way that matters, an Israelite
goddess.
In fact, Archaeology and the Bible itself have left behind startling clues about the
role of Asherah in the authentic religious practices of Israel and the Jerusalem Temple.
Some of the elements of Asherah worship are hiding in plain sight, disguised by scribal
changes and etiological stories that conceal their true identity.
All we ask is that you keep an open mind as we delve into modern scholarship on Near Eastern
Archaeology and the Bible.
We'll explore the complete history of Asherah, where she came from, the diverse lands who embraced
her, and the unexpected places in Scripture where her legacy can still be detected.
The oldest known references to Asherah come from Mesopotamia, where she is called by the name
Ashratu or Ashiratum.
She is mentioned in a large variety of inscriptions and cylinder seals as the consort of Amurru.
Amurru was a Babylonian god who personified the West, the land of the Amorites, and he was known
as the Lord of the Mountain.
Ashratu herself bore the epithet Lady of the Step in reference to her origins in the Amorite
stepland, but she was also associated with mountains like Amurru, her husband.
Babylonian records indicate that Ashratu was highly venerated during the first Babylonian dynasty,
the dynasty of Hammurabi, who was an Amorite himself.
Ashratu had her own temple and her own priests in Babylon.
Several personal names that include Ashratum as the theophoric element also appear in Babylon
during Hammurabi's reign.
According to historian Steve Wiggins, the variant Ashratu follows West Semitic
phenology, making it clear that this goddess had Amorite origins.
Ashratu's veneration in Babylon continued on into the Hellenistic period when she was
sometimes associated with Ishtar and the netherworld.
Although it's impossible to trace her early history in Amurru, Ashratu's importance in
her homeland, where she was called Ashirta, is highlighted by her appearance in the name
of King Abdi Ashirta, meaning servant of Ashirta.
Abdi Ashirta was a major 14th century Amorite ruler who was mentioned by name in 52 tablets
from the El Amarna archives in Egypt.
These were diplomatic letters that had been exchanged between the Egyptian pharaoh and
various Near Eastern kings and governors during the Late Bronze Age.
Ashra's popularity in the Bronze Age also ranged well beyond Amurru and Mesopotamia.
She has a prominent role in the Hittite El Kunirsa myth, which was discovered
on a fragmentary tablet in Hattusa, the capital of the ancient Hittite Empire.
This myth tells a complicated story of seduction and betrayal involving Ashra
and the god El Kunirsa, as well as the death and resurrection of the storm god Baal.
The name El Kunirsa might be derived from the Ugaritic El Konaars, an epithet of the
high Canaanite god that meant El, creator of the earth.
And indeed, the entire myth was probably borrowed by the Hittites from the Canaanites.
Ashra also became a major goddess in pre-Islamic southwestern Arabia,
where she was called Athirat. According to one text, she shared a temple with Wad,
a major deity of the kingdom of Ma'in. Another Arabian text associates her with Am,
the national god of the kingdom of Karaban. Both Wad and Am were lunar deities, inviting speculation
that Athirat was their solar counterpart. For now, there is no evidence of this.
The Levant is where Ashra really came into her own.
Thanks to the Ugaritic tablets found at Ras Shamra, we have a much better idea of who Ashra was
and how she fit into Canaanite religion. Ashra, called Athirat in Ugarit, was the consort of
the supreme god El. The name Elat, meaning goddess, was also sometimes used for her.
She was one of the deities who received sacrificial offerings in the Ugaritic offering lists,
sacrifices of sheep to be specific. Although El was the sole creator of earth,
heaven, and mankind, Ashra participated in the creation of the gods, the 70 children of El,
and bore the title, Creatrix of the gods. She is also called Lady Athirat of the sea,
in some texts, particularly in reference to her status as the goddess of Tyre.
In Canaan, during the Late Bronze Age, we find numerous seals and figurines that represent
the goddess Ashra. Canaan was ruled by Egypt during this period, and not surprisingly,
her iconography often shows significant Egyptian influence. She sometimes holds lotus flowers,
or papyrus stems in her hands, and she often has shoulder-length hair in a style that resembles
the Egyptian goddess Hathor. In some instances, she is shown standing on a lion. The Canaanite
Ashra was associated with fertility, and her images often emphasized her pubic triangle,
along with a tree of life symbol. Over time, the goddess was often represented simply as a
stylized tree, often a palmetto, typically flanked by ibexes or other capprids. The presence of
animals feeding on the tree suggests a shift in emphasis from fertility to nourishment and blessings.
A famous jug from a temple in Lakish, known as the Lakish Yor, is decorated with a tree
flanked by capprids, and an inscription that reads, quote, a present for my lady Elat, end quote.
Pendants in the shape of stylized trees have been found at the same temple,
and Near Eastern iconography expert, Athmar Kel suggests that tree pendants were worn as
symbols of Ashra in much the same way that people in the West today wear gold crosses as jewelry.
Two cult stands found in the village of Tanakh Israel depict a sacred tree flanked by capprids,
and the more famous one shows the goddess Ashra flanked by lions in the equivalent spot
on the bottom register. These date to the early Israelite monarchy, Iron Age 2A.
According to Joshua, 2125, Tanakh was a Levite settlement. Some scholars believe these stands
belong to a local cult devoted to Ashra. A bit later in Iron Age 2B, we have examples of seals
from around Palestine showing sacred trees flanked by worshipers, suggesting that Ashra
continued to be venerated in tree form within the kingdoms of Israel and Judah.
In Philistine territory and Judahite regions bordering the Philistines, we also find terracotta
plaques with the image of a naked goddess that is assumed to be Ashra. We also find
thousands of pillar-shaped goddess figurines throughout ancient Judah whose meaning and purpose
are disputed, but which many scholars interpret as a symbol of the goddess Ashra.
Some of the most critical evidence related to Ashra from this period was found at a caravansera
along an ancient trade route just to the south of Judah. The location is called Contillat Adrud
and the shards of two large storage jars, called pithoi, found at the site have illustrations
and inscriptions of interest. One depicts a sacred tree with flowers and perhaps fruit
that two caprids are feeding on. It is positioned above a lion and is believed to represent
the goddess Ashra. Three other shards were used as material for writing letters and the messages
inscribed on them include blessings in the name of Yahweh and Ashra. Two of them refer to Yahweh
as, quote, Yahweh of Temin, end quote, and the third calls him, quote, Yahweh of Samaria, end quote,
implying that the travelers who wrote these messages were familiar with temples or shrines
to Yahweh in those locations. One inscription appears above an illustration of a god and
goddess with bovine features and scholars debate whether the juxtaposition is intentional or coincidental.
A fourth blessing that mentions Yahweh and Ashra was found on a piece of wall plaster
from the site. A similar inscription is found at a site in Judah called Kerbet El-Kom,
which pronounces blessings in the name of Yahweh and his Ashra twice.
According to Old Testament scholar Nick Wyatt, the goddess Ashra and her cultic representation
were closely associated with the monarchies of Israel and Judah, which is why the topic
of Ashra comes up frequently in narratives about royal policy. Furthermore, he believes
that the queen mother might have been regarded as a royal avatar or incarnation of the goddess.
The Bible is not a straightforward record of ancient Israelite religion. Most of the references
to Ashra in the Old Testament are found in texts associated with the Deuteronomists,
a post-exilic theological school that advocated for the exclusive worship of Yahweh.
Thus, as Tilda Binger observes in her book on Ashra, quote,
their knowledge of the religious practices of times past, that is, before the exile,
was limited in quote. Another challenge in understanding the Bible's Ashra references
is that the text is often corrupt and many passages differ greatly between the Maserati
Hebrew texts used in our Bibles today and the ancient Greek translations that survive in the
Septuagint. We have to look for linguistic and contextual clues to figure out what the original
text was talking about. King Asa and the Queen Mother
In Binger's book, she focuses on the passages that have the clearest references to Ashra
as a goddess. One such passage concerns King Asa of Judah in 1 Kings 15 and 2 Chronicles 15.
In the Hebrew of both passages, it says that Asa removed his mother Maaka as the Gabira or
palace administrator because she had made an image of Ashra and then he burnt the image
in the brook of Kidron. However, the Greek translations of both passages are quite different,
suggesting a different underlying source. The Greek of 1 Kings 15 gives the mother's name
as Anna and uses a term of uncertain meaning to describe the images plural that Asa burnt.
The Greek of 2 Chronicles 15 retains the name Maaka but states that the goddess she had served
in her official capacity was Astarte rather than Ashra. Binger says these verses describe a palace
coup rather than a religious reform and she suggests that the real offense of the Queen
Mother was having an idol of Astarte in place of Ashra, the official spouse of Yahweh.
The 400 Prophets of Ashra
1 Kings 1819 reads as follows and now send out and bring all Israel to me at the mountain
of Carmel and the 450 Prophets of Baal and the 400 Prophets of Ashra who dine at the table of Jezebel.
It's widely believed by scholars that this passage was originally only about the Prophets of Baal
and the quote 400 Prophets of Ashra in quote were added later. This is interesting says Binger
because it means that the goddess Ashra still enjoyed some measure of fame and popularity
in the time of the Deuteronomists. Adding the Prophets of Ashra to this story about Baal
and the hated Jezebel might have been their way of discrediting Ashra.
Manasseh's Reforms
The Judahite king Manasseh instituted a number of temple reforms that are described in surprising
detail as Binger notes. While other bad kings are simply said to have done evil in the site of
Yahweh, 2 Kings 21 goes further by describing how Manasseh rebuilt the high places, built altars
for the hosts of heaven, the Canaanite Pantheon presumably and made and installed an image of
Ashra in the temple to Yahweh. The description of these acts begins in verse 3 with a verb meaning
return that is normally used in the Bible to describe the reintroduction of the proper Yahwistic
cult. Binger theorizes that the Deuteronomist were rewriting a text that was actually friendly
toward Manasseh and believed he was rectifying the mistakes of his father Hezekiah by restoring
Ashra to her place in the temple. At any rate, this passage confirms that an image of Ashra
had been present in the Jerusalem temple. Incidentally, Manasseh enjoyed a remarkably
long reign 55 years. It's hard to avoid the conclusion that he was a popular and effective
monarch. Second Chronicles even rehabilitates Manasseh's reputation by telling a story in
which Manasseh is taken captive by the Assyrians, repents and is restored to his throne. Nothing
of the sort happens in 2 Kings. Josiah's Counter Reforms
According to 2 Kings 23, King Josiah, the grandson of Manasseh, imposed significant
reforms on the temple and the populace. In verse 4, he removes the vessels made for Baal,
for Ashra and for the host of heaven, from the temple and has them burned in the fields of the
Qidran. Verse 7 is translated by Binger as follows, and he tore down the houses of the Kedashim
that were in the house of Yahweh, where the women were weaving, where the houses of Ashra were.
This raises several questions. Who were the Kedashim? Why did the Ashra cult at the temple
have women whose job was to weave fabric? Kedashim is often mistakenly translated as
prostitute, but the Hebrew root means holy or sanctified. The Kedashim may simply have been
cultic personnel who were not exclusive to Yahweh. According to Binger, there is no particular
reason to think prostitution was a part of Ashra worship in the temple. As for the weaving,
one scholar, Susan Ackerman, has argued that Ashra was, in addition to her other roles,
the Israelite goddess of spinning and weaving. Ackerman points out that in the Hittite myth
of El Kunirsa, Ashra holds a spindle with which she attempts to stab Baal. In the Bible, the wisdom
woman of Proverbs is described as a weaver and seamstress, and many scholars think this woman
is deliberately patterned after Ashra, since she is present with Yahweh at creation
and described as a tree of life, which recalls not only the story of Genesis 3,
but also the stylized trees that represent Ashra and the iconography of ancient Canaan and Israel.
Archaeology seems to corroborate the connection between Ashra and weaving.
The excavation at Tel Ta'anak, which we've already noted was associated with Ashra,
discovered some 62 loom weights and other weaving tools, meaning that this religious sanctuary
was also an important textile production center. Textile production workshops associated with Ashra
have also been found at 7th century Ekron, if the analysis of Baruch Halpern is correct.
The Jerusalem Temple then might have been home to a textile production center overseen by the
Ashra cult. Despite the reforms that were allegedly carried out by Josiah, there are reasons to think
Ashra's legacy never totally went away. In fact, two key temple objects that are associated
with the proper Yahweh's cult and the Old Testament may actually have originated with Ashra veneration.
First, it needs to be pointed out that the majority of the Bible's 40 odd references
to Ashra are not direct references to the goddess herself, but are instead references
to cultic objects called Asharim associated with Ashra. Although scholars debate the exact
nature of these objects, they seem to have been stylized trees or poles, or perhaps
even trees that had been cut and pruned in a specific way. We know they were made of wood
and stood upright because numerous passages talk about cutting them down and burning them.
Unfortunately, since wood does not survive long periods of time, archaeologists have yet to find
any good examples of surviving Ashraim. However, we may have some ancient depictions of similar
objects. An ancient Greek vase depicts an altar with a palm branch, and a Tyrian coin
shows two Masabot or standing stones with an incense altar and ornamental tree.
In fact, many of the sacred trees shown in ancient Israelite inscriptions might actually be
representations of these Ashraim, like this ornate seven-branched tree with blossoms
and almond-shaped fruit drawn on the storage jar at Contillat Adrud. We also have good reason
to think these Ashraim were commonly placed in the Jerusalem Temple, and perhaps even in the
inner sanctuary, since Deuteronomy 16 goes out of its way to prohibit the placement of Ashraim
beside Yahweh's altar. You shall not plant any tree as an Ashra beside the altar that you make
for Yahweh your God, nor shall you set up a stone pillar, things that Yahweh your God hates.
The things that Yahweh hates, of course, are quite subjective, since stone pillars or Masabot,
which were an indigenous part of Israelite culture, are regarded positively in many
non-Deuteronomistic passages. Now, let's consider the menorah, the story in Exodus 25
explaining the menorah's official origins is a priestly text, which means it was produced
after the exile and after the Deuteronomistic literature. It specifies a seven-branched lamp
stand made of gold and decorated with almond flowers. In an important study on the menorah
published in 1971, El Yarden argued that the menorah was deliberately stylized as an almond tree
as a way of suppressing or combating the Ashra cult. This implies that Ashra worship
was still a major part of Israelite culture during the early Second Temple period,
but why is the menorah specifically designed to represent an almond tree?
In the Near East, the almond tree is apparently the first to blossom in spring. In Israel,
it blooms in January or February, while other trees are still bare. It has been linked to the
mother goddess since ancient times. Its Latin name, amygdala, probably comes from the Semitic
amigalu, meaning great mother. In Biblical Hebrew, the almond tree was originally called
Luz. It is still called Luz in Arabic today. Significantly, Luz is the name given to the place
where Jacob dreamed of steps going up to heaven in Genesis 28. Upon waking, he set up a sacred stone
and named the place Bethel, the house of El. In the Bronze Age, Bethel was the site of a religious
sanctuary dedicated to a goddess, probably Ashra. Several goddess plaques of the kind originally
mentioned were found here along with the Hathor column. The Jacob story legitimizes
the site's cultic significance. Later, the Ark of the Covenant is said to have rested at Bethel,
on its way to Shiloh, and 2 Kings 2315 claims that there was still an Ashra pole
at the Bethel altar during the late monarchy. J. E. Taylor points out that neither Amos nor Hosea
denounced the Ashra at Bethel, suggesting that it was considered to be an acceptable part of the
cult of Yahweh, until the Deuteronomist decided otherwise. In summary, the Israelite version
of the Ashra pole was probably, at least in some cases, either a sacred living almond tree or some
kind of wooden pole made from an almond tree. The ancient city of Luz, with its historical
devotion to Ashra, was an important site throughout Israel's history. Even though the
Aaronite priests did away with Ashra worship in the Second Temple, they kept her beloved symbol,
the stylized almond tree, with seven branches.
There is a second Hebrew word for almond, Shaqed. In the book of Jeremiah, the prophet is looking
at a rod made from an almond tree, which gives Yahweh an opportunity to make a pun.
And the word of Yahweh came to me saying, Jeremiah, what do you see? And I said,
I see a rod of almond. Then Yahweh said to me, you have seen well, for I am watching
over my word to perform it. Perhaps Jeremiah was not observing just any almond rod,
but one specific almond rod, one that had not yet received its biblical origin story.
In number 17, we read about a singular botanical miracle. Yahweh commands Moses to take a staff
from each tribe and to set them before the Ark of the Covenant in the tent of meeting.
When Moses returns to the tent the next day, Aaron's rod has produced buds, blossoms,
and ripe almonds. From that day on, Aaron's blossoming almond staff was to remain in front
of the Ark of the Covenant to be kept as a sign to defiant people. Many commentators have observed
that the purpose of this story is undoubtedly to establish an etiology for an object
that was familiar to its audience. That object must have resembled a flowering staff
and would have been kept inside the temple sanctuary. In a recent paper, Old Testament scholar
Carol Evander Torn states that the temple had an important role in popular religious devotion.
It performed many of the same functions as medieval cathedrals did.
Believers could bring and leave behind votive gifts, and the temple would also house various
objects to commemorate miraculous events. In the case of Aaron's rod, the narrative of number 17
would make little sense unless its readers had been to the temple and knew of the object it was
referring to. Evander Torn further notes that staffs were used both to symbolize authority
and to authenticate the staff's owner. Accordingly, he proposes the following scenario.
In pre-exilic Israel, the temple in Jerusalem housed a holy rod, stylized in the form of a
blooming almond branch. We should probably think of an oblong stick with decorations in the shape
of almond flowers. The whole rounded off by an elongated knob like a bunch of almond leaves.
Nobody knew for how long it had been there. In a time when nobody could be certain about the
origins of the almond rod in the temple, the author of number 1716-26 came up with the idea
that this was in fact Aaron's rod, miraculously transformed overnight. He was led to make this
identification by association with the staff or scepter, which the priest on duty was normally
carrying. The rod in the temple, interpreted as Aaron's staff, was declared to symbolize
the divinely endorsed privileges of the priestly elite. In consequence, the far more humble scepter
of those who served in the sanctuary underwent a rise in status. Henceforth, the staff of the
priest could be traced back to the rod of Aaron, just as the serving priest was allegedly able to
trace his genealogy back to the Aaronites. This rod may go quite far back since II Kings 21 tells us
that King Manasseh had placed an Asherah in the temple of Yahweh. Renan Eichler argues in a recent
paper that this Asherah was a stylized tree, much like the drawing found at Contillat Adrud. In fact,
that drawing might depict the very same Asherah set up by King Ahab in Samaria. It would still have
been in the Samarian temple at the time the drawing was created. Eichler also points out that Asherah
is invoked in the Kerbet El-Kom and Contillat Adrud inscriptions to pronounce blessings using
identical language to the Aaronite blessings found in the Book of Numbers. One of Asherah's functions
in ancient Israelite religion was to be a mediator for Yahweh's blessings, and the stylized tree motif
represented the idea of blessing and nourishing as previously mentioned. Furthermore, although the
priestly passages of the Pentateuch condemn idols and standing stones, they never mention the Asherah.
Similarly, Ezekiel, who is closely tied to the priesthood and priestly literature, condemns high
places and altars but never the Asherah. This suggests that Asherah and their almond tree symbolism
remained important to the post-exilic temple and its Aaronite priesthood, even though a different
etiology was eventually proposed for the temple's Asherah staff.
There is much we still don't know about Asherah, including the reasons that she fell out of favor
in Israelite religion. A fascinating analysis of the Book of Hosea by W.D. Witt suggests that the
earliest version of the text was actually about Yahweh's divorce from Asherah. Hosea is famously
difficult to interpret. It has undergone numerous revisions and expansions, making it difficult
to reconstruct the message of the original prophet. Chapter 2 contains a long divorce speech. It
assumes the role of a husband challenging his children, defend your mother, defend her for
she hereby is not my wife and I hereby am not her husband. Witt says this language matches
divorce proceedings from other Near Eastern texts. Chapters 1 and 3 of Hosea seem to make it clear
that the target of this divorce is faithless Israel, who is described as a whore using Hosea's
marriage to the prostitute Gomer as an analogy. However, Witt points out that it is the children
of Gomer who symbolize Israel, not Gomer herself. Furthermore, the language about prostitution
is the work of a Deuteronomistic redactor who interpreted the divorce speech as a speech about
Israel. After stripping away the Deuteronomistic revisions and other verses he identifies as
late editions, Witt shows that the divorce passage is much more ambiguous. If this text dates back
to pre-exilic Israel, it comes from a time when the average Israelite and Judahite believed
Asherah to be Yahweh's wife. Furthermore, the metaphor of God's being the parents of the humans
was a common way of thinking throughout the Near East. Humans were never described as the spouse
of a God. After ruling out other alternatives, Witt concludes that Hosea was writing about the
divorce between Yahweh and Asherah. Quote, Asherah's role as fertility goddess explains the fertility
imagery used throughout Hosea's speech in quote, says Witt, quote, and because Asherah was the
mother goddess and was believed to be Yahweh's wife, it is natural that she should metaphorically
be viewed as the mother of the Israelites, just as Yahweh is thought of as the father
of the Israelites, end quote. The sin of Israel in this metaphor was the adoption of fertility rights
in which Asherah became Ba'al's sexual partner. In Hosea's view, Asherah was committing adultery
and by making Ba'al their father instead of Yahweh, they became bastards, as Hosea 2.4 puts it.
The declaration includes punishment for Asherah as well. She is stripped of her jewelry and clothing
and Asherah must lose her favorite status in Yahweh's temple.
Interestingly, it is not the Jerusalem temple in view here, but the temple in Gilgal,
which Hosea is concerned with. Witt speculates that this divorce might also have been Hosea's attempt
to explain the loss of Gilgal and the province of Megiddo to the Assyrians in the 730s
or 720s BCE.
Even after most of the Hebrew Bible had been written,
scribes continued to remove references to Asherah from the text.
One possible example was pointed out by Francesca Stavrakapulu on the 2011 TV special
The Bible's Buried Secrets in Deuteronomy 33.2. In today's Bibles,
this poetic verse about Yahweh reads, from his right hand went a fiery law for them.
This odd wording makes no sense, either on its own or within context.
However, the words fiery law become Asherah if you flip the dialet to a rush.
These two letters look almost identical and are often confused.
Furthermore, the Greek Septuagint reads, angels instead of fiery law.
This translation is possible if the Greek translator misread the text as Asher Elim,
his mighty ones, when it originally said Asherah.
Another strange example is found in Ezekiel 8. In this text, Ezekiel is taken in a vision
to the temple court, where he beholds the glory of God at the seat of the image of jealousy,
which provokes to jealousy. There, he observes the abomination of women weeping for the God
Tammuz nearby. So what is this image of jealousy and why would the glory of God be there?
Margaret Barker convincingly argues there is an obvious corruption of the text here.
The phrase the image of jealousy was originally meaning the image of the Creatress,
the title of a Theorat at Ugarit. In other words, Ezekiel's remembrance of the temple
was that it contained an image of Asherah and he seems to associate this image positively
with the glory of Yahweh. While at the same time condemning the counterfeit Tammuz cult,
and as we have already noted, Ezekiel never condemns Asherah or the Asherim objects,
unlike some of the other prophets. R. Worthington concludes in a recent paper that is quote,
No longer possible to dismiss Asherah as only a bad idolatrous outside influence
which God's prophets sought to fight against. The Bible does not attempt to cover up the existence
of Asherah or that she, it, was worshipped in Israel, end quote. From the archaeological evidence
and the biblical evidence, we can trace the veneration of the wife of God and the queen
of heaven from her roots as an ancient Amorite goddess to the symbols of divine trees and
almond branches found in ancient Israel and the Bible's own testimony that she had a place
in the house of Yahweh for most of its existence. Even after the exile when the new temple was built,
we see tension and how the religious establishment continued to honor her symbols even as it
developed new origin stories for those symbols that were more compatible with their Yahweh only
theology. Perhaps it is no coincidence that even in early Christianity the shape of the
almond symbolized the purity of the Virgin Mary and Christ himself was sometimes enclosed in an almond
shaped halo in Christian art.
