Please consider becoming a patron of MythVision Podcasts, you'll get early access to every
video including this amazing one, and you can ask me personal questions, private message
me anything you'd like.
Professor Elaine Pagels, can you tell me about the Gospel of Mary Magdalene?
The Gospel of Mary Magdalene is an ancient text, it's at least 2000 years old, but we
never knew what it was because leaders of the church 300 years after it was written
burned it, censored it, destroyed it, did everything they could to obliterate it.
So the question is why, recently five pages of it were found in the find with the other
secret Gospels, I'm sorry I was wrong, I have to correct myself, it actually was the end
of the 19th century, it was something like 1896 in a garbage dump in Egypt where you
find a lot of old papers, there were fragments of the Gospel of Mary Magdalene, five pages
left, it was probably like a 25 page text, and scholars didn't know what to do it, and
they just sort of ignored it for a while, but it is an amazing text, this text suggests
that it's not written by Mary Magdalene, but it's about Mary Magdalene.
Here while Luke pictures her as a woman who'd been possessed by devils, and she later has
the reputation in Western Christianity being a prostitute, that's not in the New Testament,
she was never said to be a prostitute, that connection was made later by some of the popes
who were trying to show why women could not be disciples or priests.
Mary Magdalene was kind of a figurehead, but in the Gospel of Mary it opens the fragment
we have in which the disciples are terrified, they're saying they killed Jesus, they're
going to do that to us, how can we go preach the Gospel, they got him, they're going to
be after us too, and they're terrified.
Then Mary stands up and it says she turned their hearts to the good, and she said brothers,
be of good courage, the Lord has strengthened us and turned us into men, well actually it's
into human beings, she's made us into full human beings, and she says the son of man
is within you, follow after him, within you, he's within you, follow him, right?
And so she gives them courage and they begin to recover their spirits through Mary Magdalene's
teaching, and then Peter turns to her and says sister, we know the Lord loved you more
than other women, why don't you tell us some of the things he said to you, maybe we were
away, we didn't hear them, so you might have heard something we hadn't heard, you have
something to tell us?
And she says yes Peter, it's not just that you were gone out to buy lunch, he kept some
things from you that he told me, and Peter says wait a minute, you mean he told you
things he didn't tell us, why would he turn and talk to a woman and not to us?
And Peter gets angry and he says I don't believe the Lord said anything to you like
that, why would he talk to a woman, it doesn't make any sense, and she says my brother Peter
what do you think, do you think I'm lying about the Lord, do you think I'm making this
up in my heart?
And he says yes, yes I think you're just making it all up, and then his brother Andrew
comes in and says Peter you've always been angry at women, if the Lord made her worthy
who are you to turn her down, who are you to demean her, if the Lord made her worthy
and taught her, and she says yes I saw him in a vision last night and he told me this,
and Peter says your visions don't mean anything, you're lying, so they have a conflict and
it's really about who is closest to Jesus, is it Peter, now if you read Matthew, Mark
and Luke it's Peter, he's the chief disciple, if you read the Mary Magdalene Gospel it's
Mary Magdalene, and she is closer to Jesus and one who understands him better than Peter.
So there's this idea that various disciples had been sort of jockeying for position, who
does Jesus love best, the same thing happens actually in the Gospel of John in which Peter
and John are competing to see who is closest to Jesus, the disciple whom Jesus loved who
claims to have written the Gospel or Peter, and Peter loses out in the Gospel of John,
but he wins in Matthew, Mark and Luke, so you see that there are different groups of
Jesus's followers who have different favorite disciples, but some suggest that Mary Magdalene
was one of those, and in the Gospel of Mary Magdalene, Peter loses the argument, the other
disciples come to Mary's defense and say surely the Lord knew her better than you do,
if he loved her we should respect her, so she can join us and go out to preach with us,
and so at the end of the Gospel of Mary Magdalene she goes out and joins them as a missionary
preaching the Gospel. Now why isn't that in the canon? Well the bishops didn't like
it. It's suggested that women were capable of becoming missionaries and preachers and
apostles.
You know, something that just comes to mind in everything you're saying, you know, we
have fragmentary data, our evidence is not great, and when you've said this a few times
it never really dawned on me that the dating of some of these things, that we try to date
them late. It's like scholarship even likes to put a lot of these things really late
in the game, but I'm kind of thinking what if you're right? What if these go right hand
in hand at the same times, if you will, with multiple groups, different groups of Christianity
already on the scene, and there's versions of this simultaneously, and these are the
ones that didn't work out. They did not want these, so they get rid of them. It's not that
I guess I'm saying this to get your thoughts on, it's not that this Gospel of Mary Magdalene
had to be written in the three, four hundreds, therefore it's just late in the game and they're
ready to get rid of it. This might have been right there at the end of the first, beginning
of the second, or mid-second century.
You're right Derek, that scholars often fight about dates, and they say well if it's written
in the first century that makes it better. Fact is we don't know when these things are
written, because when it comes to the text like the Gospel of Thomas, well we have a
fragment in Greek, so we know it was available in the second century. It was probably written
about the time of the Gospel of John, because we have fragments in Greek, and then later
copies in Coptic. For the Gospel of Mary, we only have a fragment in Coptic. It had
been translated into Syriac, and Georgian, and Armenian, and many, many languages. It
was a well-known text, but the only one that survives is now written in Ethiopic, and it's
preserved in the Ethiopian Orthodox Church. Mary is regarded as a saint in some of the
Orthodox Churches, like Russian Orthodox, and in Greek Orthodox. I mean she is in the
Catholic Church, but there she's a fallen woman prostitute. In the Eastern Churches,
she's seen as a major disciple. We don't know about the dates, but if you like the
text, you'll try to date them early. But you can't tell, because the texts we have are
written much later in a different translation, in a different language.
We just don't have great evidence, right?
We don't, and then you have a scholar, like a major scholar at the University of Cambridge
in England, Simon Gathick, all of this stuff is terribly late. It's all written in the
fourth century, and his purpose of saying that, he doesn't know, is to say, oh it's
all derivative, it's all garbage really. The right Gospels are the New Testament. But
the fact is, you are right. How many scholars are willing to say, actually we don't know?
I have to say, one of the reasons why I think what you're saying makes more sense than something
like this is all late and garbage and get rid of it, is I just personally don't find
it to make the most sense out of the plausible explanations, that you have all these already
substantiated Gospels and already these texts, and this is the way it is, and then people
decide at some point, we're just going to start making up our own versions of it.
To me, someone made these things at some point, but to me it makes most sense, multiple splinter
versions of traditions are happening at around the same time, and when you have so many,
we talked about this before, we need a straight truth, we need one that's going to, we got
too many problems, look at the chaos that's going on, we can't figure out what we are,
and so now we've got to cut it down, and Mel Chauvin, as so to speak, people come on
and say, hey, ladies out, be quiet, and whatever multiple other reasons might be playing a role.
And you know, when you look at Dale Ellison's work about the Gospels, he says, you're looking
at Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, Gospel of Thomas, any of them, what are they? They're
constituted out of memories. Somebody remembered an episode, somebody remembered a saying,
somebody remembered something he heard Jesus say, or Peter said, Jesus said, or something
like that, and those are the little nuggets that are written down in the Gospels that
we have 40, 50 years after the death of Jesus, written down from memories, but the question
is, what do you remember, and who remembers what? Something like what you find in the
Gospel of Mary is about a dispute between Mary Magdalene and Peter. Now, she must have
been a rather powerful person among the followers of Jesus. She was apparently wealthy, she
gave money out of her resources to support Jesus. She was present at very important moments
in the story. The first witness of the resurrection, for example, after the men had fled out of
fear of being captured and tortured and crucified like Jesus.
That's kind of mean something, right.
But who remembered it? There might have been women remembering it, and their memories don't
count as much as men's memories, right? Because men are writing almost all these texts.
You know a recent blog article on Bart Ehrman's, he had a guest blog article, and the man said,
Paul wrote to this woman, I can't remember her name, somewhere in one of his epistles
and the authentic ones. And it sounds like this might have been Paul's sister who was
in the movement before her, before him. So I don't know, I'm just saying like, it's
a little bit speculative, but Paul's asking, he's greeting someone that he's going to meet
up with, like as if they know something he doesn't, or I don't know exactly, I'm putting
words out there so I could be wrong, but he's talking to women. They obviously are important
to him. So if he's early, why is Paul worried about women and acts, portrays, acts even
though it's labor?
Well, it's clear, if you look at the last chapter of the letter to the Romans, well
he says, greet Mary. She was, you know, a hard evangelist with us, and greet this other
couple, man and a woman, who are apostles before me. So there are women in the movement
whom Paul recognizes as very important. So we don't know, as you said, we have a very
small fraction of whatever was written in the first century, whether it's Sophocles
plays or whether it's Plato or whether it's the followers of Jesus. We have very small
elections, from what must have been a much wider literature.
And to end this recording right here, what you're trying to do is expand people's thinking.
You're trying to stretch their minds from the narrow, we have a dogmatic understanding,
and a lot of it might be based on trusting church father tradition. And I think we need
to really take that with a grain of salt and say, look, there's real human motivation
behind some of this that is maybe obscuring your vision from seeing maybe these other
not so popular were just as popular, but it took a collection of men getting together
and saying, no, we have to condemn these, we have to, if we're going to survive this,
or for whatever political.
This is better for our church. You know, this is better for the organization we're setting
up. We don't want women in positions of power anyway. So we'll choose to get rid of texts
that suggest that they might be entitled to them. But it isn't me trying to persuade people
of that. It's the evidence that persuades me that we do have a much wider field. I mean,
I'm just as surprised as anybody to go into this field thinking, okay, it's about the
four gospels. And suddenly the whole field expands because we have all these ancient
texts we didn't know what to do with. And some people could say, well, throw them away,
they don't matter. But they were there before a New Testament collection was established.
Yeah, it makes me wonder. Thank you.
