Ladies and gentlemen, join MythVision's Patreon not only to support us but there are 72 videos
that I did with Dr. Dennis R. MacDonald and Richard Carrier all on the Patreon Early Access.
You guys can ask personal questions when I go to interview these scholars and your help
on MythVision Grow.
Dr. Dennis R. MacDonald, another question from Dr. Robert M. Price.
He's picking on you.
Is the parable of the wicked tenets based on the odyssey episode of Penelope's suitors?
Yes, but it's also related to the parable of the Great Supper in the Q-document.
So here's an example of eclectic mimesis that Mark creates this story and I'll walk through
the story and how it has odyssey and traits, but it's also similar to the story that appears
in Matthew and Luke of the Great Supper and Matthew and Luke both have both parables.
They have the parable of the Great Supper and the wicked tenets and Matthew has them
back to back and so does the Gospel of Thomas.
So the ancients saw similarities between the stories.
In the famous parable of the Great Supper, a man makes a supper.
He invites his friends to come to dinner.
When the dinner is ready, he sends out a single servant and tells him the dinner is ready.
Each one makes an excuse.
And more or less, they're legitimate excuses, a business excuse, a marriage excuse, and
so on, but the householder is furious.
So he tells the servant, go out and call people that they may be in my house.
And so in the end, the house is full.
This is Q's way of talking about the God's invitation to Israel to come to the banquet,
metaphorical of the kingdom of God or something like that.
And people make excuses they're just too busy.
And so he tells the servant, namely Jesus, to go out and invite people to come in and
that includes potentially Gentiles or Sinners or whatever.
It's very consistent with the social identity of the Q document.
So what happens in Mark?
A man builds a vineyard and builds a tower and lets it out to hired hands.
And he doesn't stay there like the other fellow who created the meal.
He goes on a journey and the tenants, so he sends a servant to get the produce from
the vineyard and he gets beaten up.
So the man, still in a distance, sends another servant and he gets beat up.
And then he says, well, I'll send my son, maybe they'll respect him.
And he's called a beloved son.
And they kill him.
So Jesus in the parable says, so what is the householder going to do when he comes?
He's going to come and kill those vineyard owners and he's going to give the vineyard
to others.
So this can be understood as an allegory of the rejection of Israel for having killed
the prophets.
And Jesus coming back in thunder and giving the vineyard to Gentiles or something like
that because Mark is interested in it.
So you can see the similarities to the parable of the Great Supper.
Now I'm going to tell you another story.
Odysseus builds a orchard with his father and he builds his own house.
And then he goes off to fight in Troy and he's gone for 20 years.
Now when he left, he left his servants in charge of his estate.
And one of them, Melantheus, turns coat and he's with the suitors.
Now the suitors want to kill Telemachus because he's the beloved son.
And they say, if we kill him, the inheritance will be ours, whoopee, that's exactly what
happens in the parable.
The tenants say, this is the son, if we kill him, we'll have the inheritance.
Now that's not the way the law works, if you're a murderer of a son that you inherit.
And I know John Kloppenberg has tried to make sense of it, I just don't buy it.
So what happens when Odysseus returns?
He kills the suitors and he restores his property to his son and to the faithful slaves and
he punishes the others.
Now this is a case of mimetic eclecticism that Marx simultaneously is transvaluing the
story in the lost gospel queue, and that's how you have all these parallels between the
two, which scholars recognize and the Matthew and the author of the Gospel of Thomas apparently
recognize because they put them back together, back to back, but he also imitates the odyssey.
And why does he do so?
He thinks, I think in the Q document, that Jesus left did not punish those who didn't
come to the vineyard sufficiently.
And Marx is writing after the Jewish war and thinks the Jewish war was punishment for the
death of Jesus by those who didn't accept his message.
So now you have the social identity difference between the two that explains why Marx wants
to be so vicious with his opponents.
And when Matthew retells Marx's story of the wicked tenants, he makes it even worse.
This is a king that gives a banquet for his son and what does the master do when he comes?
He kills those people and burns their city.
You think that might have to do with the destruction of Jerusalem?
So you have this wonderful mimetic chain going from the Q document to Marx and Marx to Matthew,
Luke and Thomas, which is really quite sensational.
So wrapping up in Homer, I love the stories for people who don't know this narrative.
You started to tell us but didn't really finish the narrative, right?
We know the temple's destruction clearly, 70 AD, most people watching the survival fans
and they're like, duh, we know what to happen, we know what happened.
But you said he and his father had built, had some vineyards, right?
So there's a key connection, just knowing, okay, vineyards are playing a role.
And I remember when Homer, or sorry, when Odysseus comes back from the war,
he reveals himself to his father in the vineyard.
He goes out to the vineyard and he sees his dad and he's like, it's me, but don't tell anyone.
So this gets into the whole hush-hush thing about Jesus that I think is interesting in the
Gospels that you point out, but then there's the suitors at home who want to kill his son.
You started getting there, but you didn't go into the conclusion of what happens.
So tell us what happens.
Are they killed?
Tell us what happens.
Okay, the suitors think that Odysseus has died at sea and they're aware that Penelope is putting
off burying one of them by weaving the shroud of Leertes and they want her to marry one of them
so they can split up the loot and Telemachus is getting in the way and so they'd like to kill him
outside the city in order that they can get the inheritance.
So Telemachus is able to avoid death because of one of the more generous suitors.
He says, no, this isn't a good idea, you know, let's not do it.
Odysseus comes home in disguise, disguised as a beggar, and he mills around the suitors
to find out how guilty they really are.
And then he reveals his identity to Eumaeus and Florius, his faithful servants, and he and
Telemachus and these two faithful servants arm themselves, bar the doors, and kill all of the
suitors so that no longer do they have to worry about their estate being taken by these murderers.
Well, the parallels to the parable are pretty interesting.
The vineyard owners say this is the heir, let's kill him so the vineyard will be ours.
What's the master to do?
He's going to come back and kill them and give the vineyard to others.
And the parables really want you, the parallels, once you see them are virtually undeniable.
Thank you.
