We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision podcast.
I'm the host, Derek Lambert.
Today I have Simka and I was,
I just remembered your last name
and how to properly pronounce it.
Is it Yakovic?
Yakovic, Yakovic, see, I'm bad about this.
Let me tell you, my audience knows me
about pronouncing things, so.
No, no, it's okay, you know, basically,
all the Orvich names means son of,
so Yakovic is like Jacobson, son of Jacob.
Thank you so much for correcting me on that
and welcome to MythVision.
No, glad to be on.
So the Naked Archaeologist is joining me today
and we're gonna have a little fun.
It's not all gonna be academic,
some of it might be kind of story time
to tell us a little bit about your background,
what caused you to get into this.
So if you could give us a quick nutshell of who you are
and why are you into this material?
And I specifically am talking about biblical stuff,
like what got you into it?
Well, I mean, I come from the world of,
I'm a documentary filmmaker, basically.
I mean, I've written for newspapers, I've written books,
but basically what I do in life,
you know, I've been taught at university,
but basically what I do in life
is I'm a documentary filmmaker, I'm proud of it.
And I come from the world,
in the world of documentary filmmaking,
I come from the world of investigative documentaries.
My colleagues and I have won three Emmys
in investigative journalism.
That's what we do for a living, you know?
And one bright day, I got involved in the James Ossuary.
That was the first bone box in Jerusalem
where I was found with the inscription,
you know, James, son of Joseph, brother of Jesus.
It made world headlines, you know, the first carved in stone,
absolute archeological proof of the existence of Jesus
and his brother James and so on.
And this made world headlines.
And I threw a bunch of things that happened
with the late Herschel Shanks,
who's my friend of mine, I'm proud to say,
and he was the editor of BAR, Biblical Archeology Review.
I got exclusive to that story.
And that story became a very controversial story.
And suddenly I was introduced to biblical controversies.
And what happened is I was in the middle of it,
because my camera was the only camera
film pointed at the Ossuary.
So then I looked around, I started seeing
that the world of history documentaries generally
and biblical specifically, the filmmakers were very polite.
I interviewed a professor or priest or minister,
whatever, everybody was very polite.
You could say anything and nobody contradicted you.
And I came from the world of, you know,
you cross-examine the presidents and prime ministers.
So I thought, this is cool, you know,
I'll bring the tools of investigative journalism
into the world of biblical archeology specifically,
of the archeology generally.
I call it investigative archeology.
And let's see what happens.
And what's happened is a couple of decades of headlines
and some people giving me standing ovations
and some people not giving me standing ovations.
This begs, like it makes me wanna probe,
I might as well let's do a little bit of,
call it cross-examination, if you will,
on this James Ossuary.
What I've been told, and I have not extensively researched
this myself, I study a lot of biblical stuff.
I've never really probed deep into this.
Dr. Tabor really told me I really should
when I have the time dive into this,
but I've been told that that box is an authentic box
and it is a box that had an inscription
that did have a James, son of Joseph,
but that the tack on was the brother of Jesus part.
So it's half truth and half lie in a way
is what I've been told.
So it was kind of like, man, it would be really good
if we had Jesus added on that little section,
but it is a real box from really around that time period.
We're being someone who's there, front row seat,
watching the opera dance take place.
What did you walk away from?
And where are you out on the position of this box?
There's no question in my mind
that it's totally authentic,
the inscription, the box, everything.
And not only in my mind, what happened was that
it landed in the hands of a private collector
and the private collector's name is Oded Golan.
Oded Golan lives in Tel Aviv.
And he collects antiquities in Israel.
And in Israel, there's a funny law.
You can't go into a tomb and pull out antiquities.
If you find, if you, listen,
we're living in the Holy land,
stuff in the United States that's a hundred years old
that has a historic plaque next to it.
Here, Roman times, which was 2,000 years ago
is modern times.
We're talking about thousands of years of archeology.
So if you've got a house, let's say in Jerusalem,
and you wanna put a pink, you wanna basement,
so you could put a ping pong table in it
or a billiard table and you start digging,
odds are that you're gonna hit some archeology.
And when you do, what you have to do is not keep the stuff
but called the Israel Antiquities Authority.
And only when they sign off, when they take out
whatever it is, if they, you know,
can you finish your basement?
So what happens is that people find stuff, you know,
all the time.
Now, you can't pull it out of the ground, that's illegal.
But if it's made its way to a shop, it's a weird law.
If you, if you, if somebody pulls it out of the ground,
runs, runs, runs, runs, being chased by police
and makes it into a legal shop,
well, now it's legal.
You can come, a tourist can come and buy it, you know?
So it's a, it's a weird game.
So there are people with collections, you know,
at home and interesting collections.
And what is the, what is the,
what is the story behind this box?
Did they, did someone, how did they find it?
And like, I heard too, that it got into the hands
of someone that is highly suspicious.
So they made that trade.
Well, there's nothing suspicious about him.
They made him suspicious by, you know,
you can, you can ruin people's security.
You can, you can attack people on the internet
and press whatever.
The guy is a very nice guy.
He's a friend of mine.
He's an officer in Israeli army.
He's like, there's nothing suspicious.
He's never sold a certain, you know,
they say he's doing it for the money.
He's only spends money.
He doesn't make money.
He never sold anything.
So what happens is that in, in Jerusalem,
they found hundreds of tombs.
And in these tombs, there's thousands of ossuaries.
You know, when you go to the warehouse,
it's like Indiana Jones,
you go to the warehouse of the Israel Antiquities Authority
and there's thousands of these ossuaries,
these bone boxes, it comes.
So what are ossuaries?
For some reason, ossuaries are self-dating.
You know, you don't have to do carbon-14
and stuff like that.
What do I mean?
There was a fad in Jerusalem around Jesus's time.
Just before, just about 30 years before BC, right?
BCE.
And until the destruction of Jerusalem,
let's say more or less 70 AD, CE, right?
So about a hundred years.
Yeah, for that hundred years,
for some reason that we,
I suspect that there was resurrection fever in the air.
So people didn't want to,
but people don't know exactly why it happened.
In only two places, basically,
you see this phenomenon,
the Galilee and Jerusalem,
two places associated with Jesus.
And what it is, is that people,
instead of getting buried normally,
like the Jews normally do,
meaning in the ground,
without coffins, you know, dust to dust,
even today, Jews just get wrapped in a prayer shawl
and put in the ground, you know?
But in some places like United States or Canada
for health reasons, they don't allow that.
So they make coffins,
but even those coffins have holes in them,
so it could be dust to dust.
But for some reason, during that hundred years,
Jews in Jerusalem went against that tradition.
What they did is they found a cave
which counted as in the ground in their minds, right?
It was in the ground.
And they put the body in the cave.
So sometimes a well-to-do family,
because you could cost money to get a cave
in the middle of Jerusalem,
would be a family tomb.
And in this tomb,
they would lay the body out of the deceased
a year later or a little longer after the flesh decompose.
They would come and collect the bones
and put the bones in a box.
Now we call it an ossuary.
And some of the, about 20% of these boxes
have like an inscription on them.
They're not monumental.
They're not fancy inscriptions.
Just sort of remember, okay,
this is uncle Sonso and this is grandpa.
And they would put these boxes
in these long little niches.
So if you could go with me through a time tunnel
and go back to Jerusalem at the time of Jesus,
and Jesus talks about it in the tombs in the gospels,
we would go into a tomb,
if you got permission to go into a tomb,
what you would see is what you still see today,
like a little area with niches.
There might be a body there
and they're decomposing of someone recently deceased.
And then a whole bunch of boxes.
It could be six, eight, 10, 15,
depends how long of different people
who died over the hundred years.
And those are called ossuaries.
And as I say, 20% of them have inscriptions on them.
So it's an amazing thing archeologically and historically
because there weren't that many people
living in Jerusalem at Jesus' time.
And whereas if you bury someone in the ground,
they disappear really to history, right?
It's after thousands of years.
But if you put them in a tomb,
they can withstand bombings
and the tomb can stay whole.
So somebody said to me,
oh, you say that jeans was found and Jesus was found.
And that seems ridiculous to them
because that was 2,000 years ago and I tell them,
it's easier to find Jesus' tomb, from my perspective,
than it is to find my grandfathers
or my great-grandfathers.
Because the great-grandfather has been two World Wars
of Jewish, a lot of anti-Semitism
and desecration of Jewish cemeteries.
It's very hard to find those things.
But if hundreds of tombs from Jesus' times
have been found perfectly preserved
and thousands of ossuries.
Now, why did they do that?
Why did they take the bones and stick them
into a bone box and ossuary?
Because I think, I mean, people debate this,
they're not sure why.
But I think because many of them are facing
the Temple Mount where the Temple stood
and many believe that that's where the resurrection
of the dead and messianic times would happen.
So you're kind of getting a front row seat
to the resurrection of the dead.
Seems like even, and maybe we'll get to this,
just your personal theory on Islam.
But it seems like this facing the direction
of the monument or the sacred place
is where the final resurrection, the final end would come,
even in their thinking.
But I don't wanna go there.
I wanna stay on Jesus for a moment.
This is-
Yeah, so these tombs have been found.
Now, what happens is that they're found either
when people, they're rarely found by archeologists.
Most of the time they're found by people building a condo,
you know, the bulldozers for them.
Builders don't like to find them
because then they have to stop work and it costs money.
So sometimes what happens is that everybody turns
and looks away while some kids grab the ossuaries,
bring them to the antiquities store in old Jerusalem.
The next thing you know, they're on sale.
You can go there, I can buy one.
You can, when you come to Israel,
I can take the shum shops and you very legally
can go into the shop and buy an ossuary.
There was one ambassador's wife that liked it's kind of dark.
She liked buying baby ossuaries because they're small.
You can put them on your coffee table
when she used them for flower pots.
So you can buy these ossuaries.
So collectors like Oded Golan,
they buy them if they have an interesting inscription on them.
And he bought them because he bought one that had,
he has several, he bought one that had this inscription
because it says brother off and that's very unusual.
There's only one other one, if I remember correctly,
that has the words brother off.
Because generally it's like,
you just want to know who's buried there.
But if it says brother off,
that means his brother must have been a very big shot
to say on his ossuary, this guy buried here,
he's the brother of that guy over there.
So he bought it and then years later,
under the mayor who's at the Sorbonne is a epigrapher,
he's a world level reader of ancient script.
Was at his house looking at his collection,
saw this thing and said, oh my God,
it says brother of Jesus.
And Oded Golan didn't even know.
He said, I thought she was a virgin.
I didn't know he had brothers.
Of course the God, you know.
The theology man, theology.
Yeah, so no, so it says right in the gospels
that Jesus had brothers and sisters for brothers
and two sisters.
And he says, you know, the Catholic church says
it means cousins, not brothers and so on.
The Protestant church generally says
that they were born after Jesus,
so she was a virgin at the time.
So that's theology, I'm not getting to that.
But the gospel say that he had brothers.
It gives us their names, you know.
And one of them is Jacob, which became James.
And on the aussie where it says Jacob actually,
but it's translated as James became James in English
or Jacques in French or whatever.
So he says, this is amazing, you know.
And people did the statistics and so on.
And they said, this is real.
We got a world class epigrapher says it's real.
We have statisticians that say it's real.
It's real, so it made world headlines,
but some people didn't like that.
They didn't like that this is so suddenly what came out
is that the story that you told, which is,
oh no, the Aussie where he's real.
The first part, James, son of Joseph is real.
But this guy played fast and lose this collector.
He added the words, brother of Jesus.
And you know, he wanted to sell it for millions,
but we caught him red handed.
Well, they put him on trial.
The minute they did that, by the way,
was headlines around the world says fake, fake, fake, fake.
No one noticed that after hundreds of witnesses
and years of trial, and I think he was accused
like on 10 counts of forgery, conspiracy,
illegal trafficking and antiquities, he was acquitted.
They proved nothing.
They proved nothing, absolutely nothing.
Hundreds of people, hundreds of experts
looked inside the letters and said
they couldn't have been forged.
This patina, chemically speaking,
you can't insert into fake modern letters,
1,000 year old, 2,000 year old, patina.
You just can't do it.
And he got the Aussie where he back.
It's sitting now somewhere in his collection.
And no one noticed that he was found innocent
and the box is authentic.
The story went out and that's the key thing.
If you can delegitimize a finding,
then nobody remembers the correction.
Nobody cares.
Right.
What about, I remember watching Robert Eisenman
come on and try and say, ah, it's fake.
Like on some interview that he did,
have you guys ever talked to him after all of that or?
You know, Robert, I'd like to say is a,
believe it or not, I'm a friend of his.
I mean, I respect him so much.
He's totally wrong about this Aussie word.
I mean, he didn't look at it.
He didn't inspect it.
I mean, I was there when world-class chemist
after world-class chemist studied the Aussie word.
He has this idea that James is bigger,
was bigger than Jesus in a sense.
So I don't want to put words in his mouth,
but from my understand, you know,
he wrote book on James and so on,
that James would not have to brag about being Jesus' brother.
In a sense, you know, Jesus would have to brag
about being James' brother.
Like he felt it didn't fit where he was coming from.
He felt it must be, and I respect him very much,
but he's just wrong.
Wow.
This is an interesting thing you said earlier
that you found the tomb of James and Jesus.
I didn't find them.
I identified them.
Okay, so let's probe here just for a second
that I thought was interesting,
completely speculative, but still possible.
So there's this fascinating thing
that I personally think.
I think, well, I think it's fascinating personally
because I used to believe he was God.
I really did.
I believed he was God in the flesh.
But now I think he had a father.
He had a mother.
He had brothers.
He had sisters, probably.
And I want to know who the dad is.
So when I interviewed Dr. Tabor,
there is this position that his father may be Panthera,
which is not like this new thing.
This has been around for a long time,
the Jews as well as Calces bring this up.
And Dr. Tabor was talking about this tombstone with Panthera,
that they burned the body of this Panthera
and put it in the tombstone, but they used wooden fire.
So there may be DNA left over.
And I wondered if there was a way to connect the two
and see if there's anything true.
If we found out that in the bone box,
because the bones leave residue inside the box,
say the bones went missing,
you still have the box that has remnants of the DNA
from the bones that were the body that was put in here.
If we could connect those two dots,
that would change the face
of everything we thought we understood.
Well, okay.
Again, I don't comment really on theology,
like people believe what they believe
and I don't get involved with their beliefs.
Because you can't argue with theology in a sense
if somebody said, you know,
we identified Professor Tabor and I
and some others, Professor Charlesworth, more or less,
but we identified, at least he said it was a family,
but there's a tomb in an area of Jerusalem,
East Jerusalem called Talpio today,
that had, you know, they were building a building.
They came across a tomb inside the tomb.
There were these ossuaries.
One of the ossuaries said, Jesus, son of Joseph,
not the brother, the man himself.
So he said, well, you know,
maybe there's a lot of guys named Jesus, you know,
and Joseph, so maybe it's not that Jesus.
But next to him was a married woman named Maria,
you know, M-A-R-I-A in ancient Aramaic, right, Maria.
And next to that, Matthew, and then there was a Joseph,
you know, Joseph specific, you know, we have Josie,
one of the brothers, in the gospels,
one of the brothers of Jesus.
It's a conic name, right?
So it's an unusual name.
So yeah, if you, if in the future, you know,
thousands years from now, they dig in Liverpool
and they find a John, it doesn't mean it's John Lennon,
and then they found the Beatles.
But if they find John and then they find Paul,
and then they find, you know, George,
they might be the Beatles, but if they find Ringo,
that's the Beatles, because Ringo's a very unusual name.
And Josie's a very unusual name for that time,
and he was in the tomb as well.
So statistics were done, and Paul peer reviewed statistics,
so they always say, oh, you're just doing journalism,
you're not doing academia.
Statistics were done, you know,
by Professor University of Toronto,
it was published in the number one
statistical journal in the world.
And the odds, if I remember correctly,
I'm saying it in a non-academic way,
where like 1500 to one in favor of this tomb
being Jesus's tomb, Jesus and his family.
Now, the theology, people got upset,
oh, does this mean that there's no resurrection?
Well, no, I mean, if you wanna argue theologically,
Jesus died, he was put in a tomb,
you can't be resurrected if you don't die,
you gotta die first.
Everybody believes that the Christians, the Pope,
he died, but three days later he was resurrected,
he walked around, that's what believing Christians say.
So, okay, so he walked around, so he left the tomb,
so fine, but what happened then?
So all 30 days later, there was an ascension.
Now, now people can argue, was yes,
did he go physically to heaven,
or did he leave his body behind?
Some Christians believe he went spiritually to heaven.
Well, if he went spiritually to heaven,
he could have left the body behind,
and we could have identified it and helped me out in Jerusalem,
meaning I don't get into all of that, you know?
What I do get into,
1500 to one in favor of this tomb
being the Jesus family tomb, okay?
There's a woman, there's one,
there are all our May conscriptions except one,
that one's in Greek,
and that Greek one's a second Mary,
and I'll get back to what you were talking about, the DNA,
you know, and that Greek one,
is a second Mary.
Well, there were two big Marys in Jesus' life,
you know, Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother, right?
And the particular way that she's called Maria Mene,
and the way it's spelled, if you Google it,
it only appeared one time in all of Greek literature
as Mary Magdalene's name,
because Mary Magdalene just means Mary from Magdala,
it's a town, you could still visit it
when you come to Israel.
Magdala, it's called in modern Hebrew.
So it's like saying Mary the New Yorker,
or Bostonian or whatever, Mary Magdalene, Mary of Magdala,
but she wasn't called that, right?
That was a nickname,
but so she was called Maria Mene,
and there it is, right on the thing.
Now, you say, well, where's the father?
Well, there is a tradition that a man named Pantera
in the Roman army was the father.
Of course, you know, Celsus, you know, a pagan writer,
I say pagan because we use that term as derogatory.
Polytheists I like to call, I said, don't get into it.
These polytheists were some pretty smart fellows,
like Plato, Aristotle, you know, they weren't like,
we invented this term to make them sound, you know,
primitive and stupid,
but he said there was this guy named Pantera.
Now, Professor Tavor and I went to Germany
because there's a museum, as you point out,
where they found Roman army platoon,
and there was a cemetery of a guy who had been to Israel.
He serves here, I mean, Israel now.
So he'd served here, and his name was Pantera.
Now, for a long time, people said to Celsus,
he's making that name up.
No Roman soldier had that name.
He's just trying to badmouth this, you know,
marry and say, oh, her lover was like a panther,
you know, there was no such name.
Well, there wasn't a name like that,
and there was a Roman soldier like that.
Now, somewhere in that archeological find,
and some storeroom over there,
there's gotta be, you know, an urn,
because they put the tombstone by the,
there was an urn with his DNA in there,
the bones after they cremated him.
So now we've got three archeological artifacts.
The James Oscewary, the Jesus Oscewary,
and the Pantera, if they can find it, urn.
So yes, could we do DNA,
and try to see if these match?
In theory, we could.
Could we find Jesus's DNA?
No, no, no, in theory,
in theory scientists with today's technology could,
but now we get into the world of theology.
Does anybody want anybody to do that?
I suspect no, so that's why nobody's really tried to do that.
I really would love to find that out.
I mean, at the very least you could say,
Murray could come on and say, well, you are not the father.
So at least we could get Pantera.
And maybe that still doesn't answer the question,
because maybe we got a different Pantera.
I mean, what I find interesting is Parthenos,
they try to say there's this pun on the term
Parthenos for virgin or panther,
whereas you actually found an actual Roman soldier
who served during this time, he served 40, 45 years,
and after 20 years released, if you were a slave,
you were now no longer a slave, I think it was 20 or 25.
Either way, he served 40 or 45 years, I think it's 40 years,
but the guy was a slave.
And Rome, we know collected non-Roman,
non-Romans by ethnicity, if you could use the term.
I know that's a politically incorrect term,
and it does bring up a lot of questions,
but Jews were joining the Roman army.
People who were not Roman.
Well, yeah, for sure.
You know, like my parents of Boston memory
are from Romania, I speak Romanian.
I'm born in Israel, but they grew up in Canada,
but they were from Romania, Romania, Roman,
as the Romanian is the closest living language to Latin.
So it was a Roman province called Dacia,
and therefore that car, right?
But the earliest Jews, in fact, the archaeological proven,
that got to Romania were in the Roman army,
because as you say, the Romans kind of gave some guys a choice.
You could be a slave, or you could be a soldier for 20 years,
I think it is, and then you'll be free,
and we'll give you a land to retire on,
but not on your own land.
See, they didn't want Judeans in Judea,
they didn't want Germans in the German areas,
because then you'd use that kind of warrior know-how
to fight them.
So if they put you on the other side of the world,
so you served in the Roman army,
but you weren't in your own homeland,
and then you couldn't make it back after you were retired,
so you'd take a local wife, and then they solved two problems,
they kind of assimilated you,
and so they did that all the time,
that's just the fact that they would take different people
that they conquered and bring them into the Roman army.
And so it's entirely the Osir, the tombstone you talk about,
has the word Abed, and to this day in Hebrew,
eved means slave.
Now, some people say that he was a slave of ISIS
or something because it was a religious term,
but it sounds like he was just a slave
that had been liberated after serving in the Roman army,
and that he was at the right time in the right place
to be Jude's father, that doesn't mean he was,
it's a tradition that matches some archeology.
I do think there's a possibility to this,
and it may make me look like crazy to some people,
but I honestly think there could be a chance here
that something is there,
and I think it's worth investigating at the very least
to try and find the, if there's DNA connections,
but like you said, we're up against most people's theology,
and that I think is where they're gonna control
what can be said.
Now, we've really dove deep into this.
Where do you think this is going?
What's the next steps in this particular area
that you're trying to go,
and then we'll move into another subject?
Well, look, I'm interested in my history, right?
The story of Jesus, a lot of people like are,
say to me, why are you into Christianity?
You're a Jew.
Well, this is my history.
It all takes place in Israel, right?
I'm very interested in what happened
that a Jewish rabbi, he's called Rabbi in the Gospels.
When Mary Magdalene sees him in the story of the resurrection,
she sees him for the first time.
She was the first one to see the resurrected Jesus.
She says, Rabbanu, my rabbi, right?
So a Jewish rabbi became, as you said,
God to billions of people.
I wanna know how that happened.
I found it interesting.
I don't wanna fight anybody's theology.
I just wanna, I'm interested in history generally,
and I'm interested in the history of Israel specifically.
And I'm interested in Jewish history,
my history specifically.
So this is all fascinating to me.
And I just wanna keep investigating it, the problem.
And I think today there's a different,
because of streaming and stuff like that,
because of the internet,
there's more room for people to have, I think.
On the one hand, you can have less,
you know, they can kind of pull you off the internet.
On the other hand, there's room for more opinions
where different people can blog and do stuff like that.
So whereas before there was like,
you were cut off at the pass,
you couldn't even talk about certain things,
I think there is more fascination and more openness
to a historical investigation of the Jesus period.
Was he married?
Did he have children?
You know, people, you know, the Da Vinci Code,
people are open to that.
Not everybody sees it as a challenge to their theology.
They can believe he was married,
and they still, they can believe he was in God,
a prophet, people have more variations and are open.
I'm not into the theology, but I am into the history.
I really want to find.
So if you have a tomb that has all the names,
practically, of the Jesus family,
I'm shocked that nobody cares, or very few people care.
The other big piece of news is this.
When the James ossuary was found,
when that it wasn't a fake, okay?
Let me put it that way.
Now what happened is that some chemists,
Arya Shimron, PhD chemistry,
and a whole team of chemists said,
well, if this is real, we want to know
if that ossuary, where it came from,
where was it stolen from which tomb?
Because if it was stolen from the Jesus tomb in Tal Piot,
then that's a statistical slam dunk.
If we could add that name, that ossuary,
to that other bunch, because what I didn't mention before,
in the Jesus tomb, we found a bunch of ossuaries,
and then one is missing, one was stolen, that's missing.
If that's the missing one, the James ossuary,
if somebody ran off with it, and we knew chemically
that it comes from that tomb, that would be it.
Well, they'd studied it for years,
and their findings were published in the New York Times
a couple of years ago, about two years ago.
And they said, yes, that ossuary came from that tomb.
Now that's a statistical slam dunk.
Again, it was in New York Times, nobody said,
nobody said, oh my God, they've proven that's Jesus's tomb.
People go to the, you know, to the,
the church of the Holy Sepulchre in Old Jerusalem,
which stands over what many Christians believe
is the tomb where Jesus was buried,
and then was resurrected.
Now, I'm not talking again theology,
I'm just talking archeology and statistics and science,
really, what's the proof that that church
stands over the tomb where Jesus was buried?
Well, the proof is that there's no proof.
That's the logic, because he left the tomb,
there's nothing in there.
It's called the empty tomb,
and the evidence is that it's empty.
Well, so we've got people believe
that the empty tomb is the tomb because it's empty
and there's no evidence.
And this other tomb, in another part of Jerusalem,
that has practically every name in Jesus's family,
is not the tomb because it's not empty.
So, you know, it's illogical and I hope that people
want to investigate it and want to do the chemistry
and want to do the statistics,
and want to get back to that story,
but so far, people haven't.
Yeah, it's difficult to hurdle that.
It's difficult to hurdle,
because I can imagine some of the criticisms
that might come from people or defenders,
and we call them apologists of their faith,
trying to say stuff like, okay,
you know, if he was still in a tomb,
why are the only voices we hear in the Gospels
or within the New Testament, even from Paul,
is that he rose from the dead.
He was buried, but then he rose,
and he's no longer in the grave or whatever.
So, they might-
But as I pointed out to people, he could have risen,
like Professor Taber says, he could have risen,
walked around, and then the ascension could have been
spiritual, and he points that Paul seems to suggest
that that's what it was, meaning that he didn't
physically go up to heaven.
So, I don't even think that it challenged this tomb.
I don't think, you know, I'm not a Christian,
but I don't think the tomb challenges
the idea of resurrection.
He got up, Jesus, according to Christian belief,
and he walked around, and he ascended.
Well, when he ascended, if he didn't ascend,
and physically, there would be a tomb somewhere,
there would be a body, you know,
but meaning, I don't think it has to do with resurrection,
even on a theological level,
I think it has to do with ascension.
See, and I'm already thinking of like things that-
But people get emotional,
people get emotional, and they don't,
people get emotional, they don't even hear what you're saying,
and they're saying, oh, this denies the resurrection,
and they don't even listen to what you're talking about,
you know?
Yeah, they don't try to make sense of it,
and find a way that still fits their theology,
but, you know, I'm thinking-
By the way, having said that, people go to that tomb,
I'm told, by the neighbors there, who live there.
Remember, it's in the middle of a garden,
in the middle of like these four high rises,
and people see Christians going there all the time,
putting flowers on the, it's covered over,
where they go, they put flowers there,
they put stuff, they pray there,
so people are, some people see it as a spiritual magnet,
and they do grow them.
That's what I was thinking about,
is veneration of this tomb,
and when are these texts that we have,
actually showing up that we can prove,
are actually writing about these things?
When is the earliest we can date these texts?
And I'm specifically being critical here,
by saying, it could very well be he was buried,
and these are legends built up for me.
I mean, I'm not a believer myself,
so I have no dog in the fight in this particular thing,
but if I were to think, how would this make sense
if we found this tomb, and yet people haven't gone
to that tomb to venerate it, what would be the explanation?
If he was buried here, let's say,
would we say that the war in 70 deterred everyone
from knowing where to find it,
or how do we go about explaining that issue?
The issue being,
any sacred, legendary figure, someone who left a mark,
like if Abraham died and was buried,
we know they go venerate his tomb.
Any sacred person like that, you would imagine,
just like the Holy Sepulchre had created,
hey, this is the tomb of Jesus, and everyone goes around it.
If that was really where he was buried,
I'm wondering-
Oh, why is there no tradition?
Yeah.
Well, that's a good question,
and my, I think the logic is, yeah, you've gotta understand,
Jesus dies in, you know, he's crucified in the early 30s,
right, of the first century, 32, 33 AD, around there.
Jerusalem, you know, the place where he was buried,
is destroyed in the year 70, in the great Jewish revolt.
The Jewish revolt starts in 66,
there's four years of blood and crucifixions,
and tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands,
being crucified by the Romans.
Women raped, people killed, children sold into slavery.
This is what's going on in the years 66 to 70.
And then Masada, this fortress in the desert,
stands up as a last, like the Alamo, you know,
to the Roman until 73.
So that means that, by 66, that means 33 years
after the crucifixion, and just four years
after James's death, you have, or something like that,
you have this bloody, bloody,
an entire country is destroyed, right?
It would take the Jews 2,000 years to recover, right?
To come back and to settle, you know,
the beanie or little pockets,
there was the Barakofa revolt after,
but, you know, the whole country goes up
and smoke literally.
So it would be very hard that somebody who, you know,
so close to that insurrection,
so close to that bad blood, a bloodbath would,
that that tradition, there was no time
for a tradition of pilgrimage or any of that to happen,
you know, so, you know,
and by the time that people start focusing on Jesus again,
well, it's already the official religion
of the Roman Empire, Christianity,
and you already got a different story.
You're not looking for a tomb full of ossuers,
you're looking for an empty tomb.
And also, just to add one caveat, wasn't this thing covered?
This tomb was buried, right?
It wasn't like just exposed for anybody walking by willy-nilly
in the 200s AD and just went, oh, hey, there's that tomb.
Let's go inside and read the inscriptions, right?
This is...
No, no, no, it was covered also not only by destruction,
by earth, by, there was an earthquake in that area,
and there was a whole landslide.
It took both modern bulldozers to find this tomb,
and there's a tomb nearby, 100 meters,
that has not been properly excavated.
Professor Tabor and I, we put a robotic arm in it,
and to see if the, you know, we say,
well, if this is Jesus and his family buried here,
his disciples, or Joseph, or Amethia,
or somebody who would be here,
is there any Christian stuff in this other tomb
that has not been excavated?
A building was built over it, and it's sitting there
in its pristine form the way it was thousands of years ago.
So the religious authorities in Israel
didn't want us to disturb the dead,
but they allowed us to put a robotic arm in it.
And what did we find?
The earliest symbols of Christianity,
100 meters from the tomb that they say
has nothing to do with Jesus.
So we found the word Jonah,
and a picture of Jonah being swallowed by the whale.
Well, that's the earliest symbol of Christianity,
that as Jesus was three days in the tomb,
as Jonah was three days in the belly of the whale,
so to speak, Jesus was three days in the tomb, dead,
and then just as Jonah was spat out,
Jesus was resurrected.
This was the symbol, you go to the catacombs in Rome,
and Jonah is the symbol of Christianity.
And in this tomb, 100 meters from the Jesus family tomb,
and people can see my films called The Jesus Family,
The Lost Tomb of Jesus.
I think you can see it on YouTube,
but when you go into that, this other tomb,
you find Jonah, you find the cross,
you find the only statement of resurrection of faith
ever found and inscribed on an ossuary,
and it's a resurrection faith.
That's all that is sitting, right?
As we speak, under a building in a tomb
that's never been explored,
just sitting the way it has since the time of Jesus.
So it's amazing.
So there's still a lot of mysteries to be explored,
a lot of adventures to be had,
and God willing, one of these days, I'll do that.
I'll go back, but right now, that isn't happening,
that people are just letting those tombs stay,
but at the end of the day,
I do believe that all these dots will be connected,
and I find these, that's what I love doing,
connecting ancient dots, seeing what story comes out,
who are these people, what drove them,
bringing them to life, what were they all about?
It's, listen, they changed the world.
Stuff that happened in the Holy Land,
in the space of maybe a hundred years.
We're still living, we're still living the dramas now, today.
These characters, Jesus, James, Paul, Mary, Magdalene,
everybody knows them, 2,000 years later,
and they still bring up passion and theology
and bestsellers like the Da Vinci Code.
So, you know, there's a lot of mysteries to go.
That leads me to your book, actually, The Lost Gospel.
If you don't mind telling us just a little bit
about this book, maybe we spend an episode
going into it once I've completed it,
but tell us briefly, just tease us with this book,
what's it about, and then, yeah.
Yeah, and then people can buy it, yeah.
Yeah, it's unaudible too,
so if you're wanting to listen to it while driving,
but, you know, get you a paperback, get you both.
Why not?
Yeah, I wrote that book back a couple of years
with Professor Barry Wilson,
who's a world expert in early Christianity.
And basically, what we found is a manuscript
in the British Library, just like you see in the movies,
you know what I mean, they go,
this just comes off, this is an ancient thing, right?
And that's exactly what, it's an encoded gospel.
It's a lost gospel.
Now, why do people have to encode anything?
Why don't they just speak openly?
People go, why aren't they, you know,
that's like the Da Vinci, because this is fiction,
this is conspiracy theories,
why does anybody have to decode anything?
Well, even today, we see that
democracy is a very rare thing, right?
And if people want to speak and not be canceled,
then they speak encode.
If they don't wanna be dry, if you're living under Putin,
you know, if you wanna say what you have to say,
you're not gonna say, you're not gonna say,
oh, I hate Putin, you might say,
I hate the lion that rules this jungle.
You know, and everybody knows,
you're talking about Putin or whatever, right?
Like you're not gonna speak openly.
Now, when Constantine took over Christianity,
which he did in the fourth century,
when he decided, when they decided,
this gospel counts and that gospel doesn't count.
I mean, think about it.
Up until they decided that only four gospels
are the real gospels.
There were dozens, maybe hundreds of gospels.
What's a gospel?
It just means the good news.
So if you were Jesus's neighbor
and you thought he was Messiah or whatever,
you wrote your story and then people gathered around you
and you read the story once a week, once a month,
and you say, oh, he cured that guy and he did this.
That was a gospel.
And there were many, many gospels telling different versions
of the story, of the Jesus story.
Then along comes, you know, the Council of Nicaea
and they say, these four, they're good to go.
All other ones are illegal.
Burn them or we'll burn you.
Well, what are you gonna do?
If you believe in a gospel, that's not one of the four,
right?
They're not one of the four that are today
in the Christian Bible.
You believe in another gospel, the gospel of Mary,
the gospel of, you know, of whatever.
You believe in the gospel of Harry.
All the gospel means is this is the story according to.
So you believe, you believe another version.
Now you've got a choice.
No, I'm not giving up my gospel.
I'm going down with it, give the ship.
Well, okay, so you're gonna die.
Now, if you don't wanna burn your gospel
and you don't wanna die, what do you do?
You hide it, that's one thing to do.
And we know they did that because in 1947,
Nag Hammadi, a place in Egypt,
they found Nostagospals,
meaning Gospels outside,
which might be older, by the way.
They also, these are late.
They may be older than the Gospels in the Christian Bible,
but there's the gospel of Mary and the Peter.
There's different Gospels there,
different versions over there in one of them, you know.
So you have different versions with different stories, okay?
Now, if you don't wanna put them in a jar
and wait hope that 2,000 years from now,
somebody will find them, that's what happened in Nag Hammadi.
They buried their Gospels,
and 2,000 years later, in 1947, people found them.
So now we can buy them online and you can read them, okay?
But if you didn't wanna do that,
if you didn't wanna die,
you didn't wanna burn your gospel
and you didn't wanna hide your gospel, what could you do?
You'd hide it in plain sight.
What you do is you take something
that everybody knows you talk about Jesus,
but you'd erase Jesus and put this other thing.
Now, in Christian theology, Joseph, the biblical Joseph,
is a prefiguration, they call him, of Jesus.
Because they thought that Joseph was dead,
but then he was alive.
There was, you know, there was the blood of Joseph
that the brother showed their father Jacob,
and then he was alive.
You know, he kind of, Christian theology says,
this was a foreshadowing of the Jesus story.
So all Christians at that time believed
that Joseph was Jesus, in a sense,
of a foreshadowing.
Now, Joseph in the Bible has a wife named Asnat.
But we don't know anything about her,
except that she was the daughter of an Egyptian priest.
So if Jesus and Mary, Mary Magdalene, were a team,
a theological team, maybe they went around,
they preached together with ever.
And you had a gospel that said so.
Well, all, you could hide it,
or you could just erase the word Jesus and put Joseph,
and erase the word Asnat and put,
you could erase the word Mary Magdalene and put Asnat.
So what we do is we found an Aramaic gospel
that's collecting dust in the British Library.
And we did three things that I think are pretty cool.
We decoded it, we translated it,
a modern translation for the first time,
the most accurate translation.
And we published that translation,
which, you know, anybody,
even if they don't believe us,
they cannot understand of this.
So, and you can read a different gospel,
a lost gospel, and see that gospel's version
of the history of the events.
And, you know, for me, it was like, it's like, wow,
you know, because it reveals, I think,
a true story that's been buried
over the relationship with Jesus and Mary
and the politics of the time.
The politics is incredible.
Like, we don't even look at the politics of the time.
Yeah, a lot of people never heard the name,
for example, Stygianus.
Like, we look at the story as if the gospel story,
as if this kind of myth,
it took place in a historical vacuum.
How many people know that Tiberius
was the emperor of Rome at the time?
I mean, the big guy was Tiberius.
Judea was under Roman rule.
We don't even know the name of the guy who ruled it.
Pontius Pilate was, you know, who sent Jesus to the cross.
I mean, he was appointed by who?
Tiberius didn't do it.
Tiberius was on an island of Capri, you know,
having sex with little children.
That's what he was doing.
Who was running the empire?
Well, it was the guy that nobody's ever heard of,
practically, except, you know, some scholars, Stygianus.
Stygianus was appointed Pontius Pilate.
Stygianus was the guy to deal with.
Stygianus was killing off Tiberius' sons.
So it was easy to kill off.
He would want to kill off a Messiah figure
because a Messiah figure was a revolutionary figure in Judea.
So what I'm saying, all that is, we don't have that.
And suddenly in this lost gospel, we have it all.
Politics, intrigue, murder, you know.
It's got everything.
It's got everything.
It's got sex and violence, you know, and the history.
So we need to make a Game of Thrones version of Jesus.
I don't know if it would sell on Netflix,
but, you know, it'd be cool.
I'd love to do that, the politics,
because, you know, what's interesting is at the time,
women were running a lot of the stuff behind the scenes
because of the male-dominated societies.
They couldn't be the ones front and center,
but they were running a lot of the stuff
from behind the scenes.
And we know some of their names.
I mean, we know from the Gospels
that the entire Jesus movement was paid for by a woman.
You know, that in his entourage,
there were all these women, right?
Mary Magdalene, there were all these Marthas,
there were all these others.
There were a lot of people,
and people always see them as these women
as they're kind of cuddling their ass,
and their job is to just go, wow, you're so amazing.
But they weren't just sitting around going,
wow, you're so amazing.
A lot of them were running the show.
And in The Lost Gospel, the book that Barry Wilson and I wrote,
we get into that.
I'll just finish with saying that
they should read The Lost Gospel,
see my films, The Lost Doom of Jesus,
and the Exodus is decoded,
and then I'd love to pick up this discussion now again,
because as you say, I mean,
really, it's an incredible journey
investigating these 2,000 year old, 3,000 year Moses.
It's like 3,500 year old mystery, like what can be better?
You know, I oftentimes look at my life and I go, wow.
People, when I make these documentaries,
people actually pay me to do what I love so much to do.
It's a blessing.
That's where I feel about what I do.
I do this full time and I work here at MythVision
to talk about these fascinating texts,
dealing with these ancient ideas
and how they've impacted the Western world.
And today, we still cherish these ideas.
I love personally, I love mythology as well.
I love the narrative, the story behind all of these things,
because I think we can all relate to a lot of them.
There's some things I'm interested in leaving in the past
and we progress and move forward.
But that's human history, that's human.
I don't blame them for what they've done
when they did those things.
We should look at the history in the past and say,
okay, what can we learn from this?
And what can we not repeat?
So thank you so much for giving me your time.
Everybody can go down in the description,
get the books, check out the documentaries.
Let us know what you think of the episode.
Do you think there's something to this Jesus-Oshuary,
James-Oshuary thing?
If you're a critic, let us know down in the description.
I'd be interested, or in the comment section.
I'd love to hear people's thoughts.
Of course, I ask everyone to try Boob Polite,
but yeah, I hope to see you again, Simka.
Maybe I'll see you in October
when I'm over there in Israel.
Yeah, that would be great.
Have some nice hummus and falafel
and look at some archeology.
Sounds good to me and never forget, ladies and gentlemen,
we are MythVision.
