Derek Lambert, host of MythVision Podcast. Ladies and gentlemen, today I spoke with a
gentleman named Dean. Dean used to follow the teachings of this gentleman named AJ,
whom we interviewed calling him Jesus. Why? Because he claimed to be Jesus. Me and my
good friend David Samuel and Dr. Robert M. Price wanted to have a great conversation
with this gentleman because it is fascinating and interesting how people claim to be
Messiah type figures. Nobody has decided to become the gardener of Julius Caesar or
someone who burns the dung at the local trash pile outside of Jerusalem.
Everyone wants to be the leader, the Messiah, the ego of the leader type figure. And this
gentleman AJ, we call Jesus, is no different than many of the people and many of the claims
of many of the messiahs that are out there. There's a guy in Russia right now. I can almost
bank on claims to be the Messiah Jesus and since he's been arrested by the Russian government
for whatever reason that might be. I know Russia is more strict on laws. He probably is saying,
see, I'm being persecuted and eventually martyred if he ends up dying in prison for whatever reason.
Who knows? Just an example. There's always the martyrdom claim. If you haven't seen my Mormonism
series, the same thing happened with Joseph Smith and the Mormon apologist. They're always claiming
Joseph Smith was always martyred. Those Missourians and those people and these people always persecuted
us. We were so innocent Mormons. Well, when you look at the history without that bias,
you realize real quick, there's this martyrdom syndrome, this persecution complex that all
of these people carry. Well, we had a great conversation, many conversations with AJ on the
phone until after our interview we had with him, I sent him a copy previously to releasing the video
and I sent him a copy of the video and he was displeased. Let's just say more than displeased.
His words were so aggressively or passive aggressive, if you will, in the way that he
responded, you'll see pictures of the email. Take the time to pause the video and read the email.
Let me know what you guys think of this response.
So my good friend David, who's been over backwards trying to help them to make this
interview possible, because we're interested in hearing how this guy claims to remember
memories from the first century and his wife is Mary Magdalene and all these crazy details,
his wife was supposedly raped by her father from ages six to 12. You name it, the level at which
this gentleman is going to to try and come up with this story. And he's not a dummy, he knows how
to create these things. But I say that to say David responded back with kindness and here's the email
of kindness. His response back was even more infuriated.
You can see the energy coming through and the guy I'm interviewing today named Dean,
he used to follow the teachings, he met this guy, he stayed with this guy five days in a row 24-7.
So he has a little insight on this guy and AJ ended up eventually shunning him from the community,
creating lies. This is not uncommon amongst this guy. Some of you guys watch a myth vision,
probably said, Derek, you crossed the line, I'm not willing to go, I can't believe you allowed
this guy a platform. Well, I allow a lot of people a platform, but in particular, my motivation,
intention, and whole goal was to show you guys how easy it is for anyone to claim to be Jesus
and how those who are spiritually susceptible to ideas can easily be duped by guys like that
and many other people, honestly. My intentions were never to have ill intent, though the claimants
that follow this guy, AJ, think my intentions were evil or wrong or I had bad intentions,
I was very kind during this interview. But if AJ wouldn't have responded in a way that made me feel
like self-defense was necessary, I wouldn't have had the curiosity to probe into this guy's past
and to find out more about who this AJ Miller is. Find out what's his life prior to claiming to be
Jesus or how did this cult develop? Where did it come from? So curiosity had me seeking this
information and I found Dean and Dean is just one among many who have followed and known this guy
and he paints this portrait that's very, very common amongst a lot of the people who've had
encounters with him. Dean is more of a spiritual minded man. I'm more natural. You guys know this.
You're going to see a little of that wrestling back and forth in the middle of this interview
and yeah, we have our differences of opinion. At the same time, there's going to be some things
you're going to want to take note of about Dean's perspective of this guy, AJ. And I want you guys to
see it firsthand from one of his own. Let me know what you guys think of this interview and I really
do appreciate it. Hit that like button, subscribe to the channel, hit the bell, makes you guys join
the Patreon. It really helps me grow. I say this often. There are hundreds of videos on my Patreon
you guys can watch that have not been released to the public and are only visible to you. You
could join as little as $3 a month or you can bump it up and really gain favor or if you will
add wings to your angelic presence in the heavenly pages of MythVision. I love you guys and never
forget that. All right, here we go.
You know, AJ did say I spent five days with AJ in Dallas. He was running a house and that was back
in 2008, I believe, about this time. I think it was in February of 2008 and it was totally
fascinating. I was completely open to what he was saying because a friend of mine in Australia,
he had been meeting at her house and she said, hey, Dean, you should check this out. He's talking
about that he's Jesus. I'm skeptical, but I'm also a student of Colts and Charismatic Group
Leaders, so it was fascinating to me. I also am a spiritual guinea pig, so I'll try out anything.
So I tried out what he was sharing and it worked and I was getting results. So when he came to
Dallas and this was pre-2012, he's talking about earth changes, which if you follow Charismatic
groups and Colts, they frequently get into that catastrophe or disaster spirituality,
apocalyptic, you know, it's a genre. So that gets people's attention and he was talking about earth
changes and people were preparing for all this and I lived in Washington State at the time
and that was where the trigger event was supposed to occur, this big tidal wave,
Mount Rainier erupting and I'm thinking, okay, there's something to what he's saying,
let me, you know, cover my bases, but and I flew down to Dallas and spent five days with him and
it was really impactful. He's very generous with his time. I just got to talk with him.
In fact, I called my partner and told her she should drop what she was doing and come down and
visit because it was that amazing and she did and she had an equally amazing experience.
This was before all his, he said he was Jesus, but it wasn't like you see him now. He's a much
more polished speaker. In fact, if you watch some of his early videos, he is not as, and some of them
may not even be published, although he is really meticulous about getting his stuff out there,
but some of the early stuff that I had, you would see him almost hiding behind his whiteboard,
he's just really shy and very humble about it all. But as these things go with these charismatic
group leaders and cults, they don't start out, nobody starts out to start a cult.
And just like nobody thinks they're joining a cult, but nobody also starts out to start a cult.
Even Jim Jones started out as a very positive person. He was one of the first desegregated
congregations in the country in the 60s and 70s. So he had lots of positive influences,
but then he drank his own Kool-Aid and then literally, well, he didn't drink the Kool-Aid,
he shot himself, but the rest of it, that's where the term comes from, drinking the Kool-Aid.
But he started out with really positive things. And for me, AJ had a lot of positive things,
and I told him, I felt fortunate that I could use what he was teaching and help other people
and use it on myself, but I wasn't burdened by the fact that I had to tell people I'm Jesus,
because that is something he is stuck on, is that he insists on being honest and up front.
So he has to tell you he's Jesus rather than just ignoring that. And what I would suggest to you
after listening to the interview is if you subtracted the I'm Jesus, you would actually
have so much in common with him. As far as the way he views the New Testament, how all that was
created, that it's myth, it's stuff that people, you have a whole lot in common with him. And if you
knew some of the other emotional stuff, he does a lot of inner child work, and he kind of recycled
some of that, but he does it in a somewhat unique way. It's all very useful. And it wouldn't put
you off, you would think, I can get something out of this, and that's how I approached it.
So let me ask you this, because I got a slight echo, but we're fine. Let me ask you this,
this is important to probe. For the audience who's watching, who are probably going to see this,
you at one point tested this out, and you really believed he was saying who he was,
you believed he might have actually been that, or you never thought that to begin with?
So if you just look at the Christian story, I'm able to suspend my disbelief and try something,
and I was willing to do that. But if you look at the Christian story, they're expecting Jesus to
return. And that's all of Christendom, and obviously that hasn't happened. But if you were
entertaining that that was a reality, it was very plausible for me at the time. And there was
some irony to it, which is my personal experience of how the divine works. It doesn't work like I
think it should, or I would do it. And for Jesus to come back as a Jehovah's Witness no less,
which is a unique, unique perspective, because the Jehovah's Witnesses do not believe Jesus
was divine. So he already falls into an openness to that narrative that he's putting out there,
which was, as I tell people, I believe 95% of the stuff he was talking about before I actually
met him, because he's a spiritualist. And that is, I never thought I would be a spiritualist,
but I had a lot of those beliefs, although I did believe in reincarnation at the time,
because it was really the only way to solve the, to have a logical theodicy, and theodicy is the
problem of evil. How can you address that? How can you have an all good God, and we've still got
evil? And reincarnation solves that issue for how people get away with stuff, et cetera. But
AJ suggested that there is no reincarnation, and that you just continue on. And he uses Robert
James Lee's Through the Mist as his framework and cosmology. So it's classical spiritualist
cosmology. And he just kind of reinvented that in his practice. So it seemed like it would be
very ironic that if Jesus wanted to come back, he would come back to some Jehovah's Witness
in Australia. Because again, all of Christendom technically is expecting that,
if that's part of your worldview, then why not? So I just, this is interesting, because
a lot of the comments on the video were saying the same thing. They were kind of in the same vein,
and they were talking as like, why doesn't he know how to speak Aramaic? And of course,
there's always an excuse or a reason why, even though he's supposedly speaking the spirits
on demand, like they can't recite two sentences in Aramaic to him, and he couldn't just say,
so I mean, obviously, if I'm going to be critical, and I want to be critical, I could dissect what
he's saying and show, in my opinion, why he doesn't really have the things he's saying he has. Anyone
can touch bases on these spiritual concepts and ideas and principles. Anyone, anyone, all it takes
is you having somewhat of a messianic complex, or some ego about you to run with the whole idea,
or maybe even have false memories, some delusional thinking that might have taken place,
something there that might have played a part, because I've spoken to someone else,
and they said, you know, like he started having these false memories and ideas, but that weren't
initially that he was Jesus. There was some satanic ritual stuff that was taking place with
his ex-wife's best friend and him and all this strange stuff that was going on. So I wonder
if there's mental health issues going on, and someone like Yumi who works in the mental health
area, and I know that mental health is a huge thing with addiction and stuff like that,
I wonder if this guy is either playing a game here, in some sense, he's conning people and what
not, with the fact of using legit principles that work in a pragmatic way for most people,
or he's delusional and believes these things sincerely, and he's out here teaching these
things. Does that make sense? Oh, I lost you. I'm sorry. There you are.
What's up with that? Because I've just spent the last hour on another call and had no issues,
but anyhow, whether I don't think he believes it anymore, he did believe it. What I think happened
and you can see this is not an unusual thing for people to think they're Jesus. In fact,
I have a current client who thinks he is Jesus, and he had an experience. I think he was using
psychedelics, but he believed he was Jesus, and so I am a spiritualist. I never thought it would
be a spiritualist, but I am, and a spiritualist cosmology certainly explains all this, including
people who do psychedelics. In fact, I've had similar experiences myself, so that you have
this influence, and they make you think you are whoever. The number of women who were supposedly
think they were Mary Magdalene in a past life is, well, it's impossible, but they think that.
So they're tapping in either to the collective unconscious, or they are, as AJ would say,
they have these emotions stuck inside them, and they're attracting these spirits,
and they are impressing these thoughts on them. Is it possible, and I just want to probe the
naturalist point of view in a sense on this, because is it possible that reading a narrative
that you've been taught from youth has played a role to where you've almost now become part
of that narrative, and that's why they're creating and concocting this continued idea? You see what
I'm saying? I see what you're saying, but I'm not an expert with that, but my personal experience
with that whole spiritual realm, and I absolutely have firsthand experience, and some of the stuff
that AJ said and told me actually happened to me later, so I knew he knew what he was talking about.
Some people are very naturally mediumistic. They can connect with that spiritual realm,
and a lot of people, as I tell skeptics, they try to measure the spiritual with the tools of
physical science. It's not possible. It's just not possible, but it doesn't mean that that's
not there. Just because I can't do something doesn't mean it can't be done. So my former
partner, she was very mediumistic, and she could tap into that realm. She was probably the most
humble person about it. She always questioned herself, but she could totally tap into that realm
and get messages, hear stuff. I think there's other things that that...
How do we know if you don't mind me asking? Because I don't want to make this about you and me. Of
course, this is about AJ and trying to figure out more about why you're no longer part of it and
all that kind of stuff. I'm interested in knowing, but for me, it's like I know some people who hear
voices, they believe they're talking to spirits, they go see a mental health specialist, and they're
like, hey, yeah, obviously you're suffering from this particular diagnosis. However, I will say this,
as a naturalist, someone who does think there's probably a natural explanation for all of these
things, even if we don't have all the answers for some of these things, I've had experiences myself.
However, I now attribute that to the mind, and I think that there's probably a natural explanation
within the pineal gland or some type of experience. You see what I'm saying?
You see what you're saying, but what I would say is, especially my clients with substance abuse
issues, when I start talking to them about some of this stuff, in fact, I use the film CrazyWise
for a class, and they... These guys are tapping into that spiritual realm, they're tapping into a
very low level, and yes, you may have assaulted your brain with drugs or alcohol, but that opens
you up or makes that space between the physical and the spiritual very thin, and it comes through
more easily. So, if you've been up power many days on meth, you are very open to hearing those
voices. In fact, I have... Is that a hallucination? I mean, or is that a spirit? Do you have to
attribute it to a spiritual thing, or could it be hallucination? I guess what I'm getting at is,
because you're a spiritualist, and I'm not trying to poke at you being a spiritualist at all. I may
not agree with you on these things, that's okay. What I'm trying to get at, I guess, is it seems
that someone with AJ's message who are saying the things he's saying, and they're tapping into that
same vein that you and other people who are very spiritual minded are tapping into, it's easy for,
in my opinion, this is just coming from me, maybe I'd love to get your insight on this,
it's easy for someone like him, coming with a very kind, loving message to tap into the same vein,
and then package it with, I'm Jesus, or I'm Mary, or I'm some bona fide messianic figure
from history, Buddha, you name it, and get these followers who are like, look, I sense and feel
the same things he's talking about. So, I guess that question has kind of turned to say, you're no
longer following AJ, even though you believed in a lot of things prior to meeting him, and you still
believe a lot of things. I was never following AJ. In fact, when I was around, I would say I was
kind of the second group of people around him, he tends to shed people over time, but I do know
the people who were around him first, and spent lots of time with him, and actually saw him develop
at one point, excuse me, one of those people told me AJ wrote an email to this group, and was going
to tell people he was wrong, that he is in fact not Jesus, except for one of the group in Barbados,
and I'm forgetting his name, he's on my LinkedIn, encouraged him not to do that. They wanted him to
be Jesus, and the Messiah. So, AJ kind of, he didn't ever send that email. So, at some point, he
realized that wasn't true for himself, but with regards to the spiritual stuff, it's easy to fake,
right? Very easy to fake. So, I am skeptical with most people, and the difference between
someone, as I think it was Yong said, the difference between the mystic and the madman
is the mystic is swimming in the same water as the madman is drowning in. So, you're interfacing
with some of the same materials, but it's overwhelming for some one person, and most people
who hear voices, I think it's 80% of them, find them to be helpful. There's other people that I
would suggest happen to this very low level, and it's not helpful, and they're getting, as I call it,
the play-by-play, and they're being told all the negative things about them, they're being told
exactly what they're doing, I'm drinking this water, they're making fun of you, and when I talk to
clients about this, they know exactly what that is, because they've experienced it, especially with
meth and very dirty drug, they're attracting very low level influence, but for most people,
they see that as their angels, their guides, and it's helpful, so it doesn't really matter
whether I believe in it or not, it's that person's experience, and I would suggest that what you
would say is the pineal gland, or as one of the conspirituality guys is talking about, I think,
temporal lobe epilepsy or something, that causes people to have religious experiences, that just
those impacts to the brain makes it really easy to connect with, just like silence and solitude,
you'll start hearing voices if you know of the Desert Fathers, they're out there, they're having
all these, what we would say, crazy experiences, but it wasn't debilitating to them, so what I think
is AJ was spending a lot of time, it's what he told me, by himself, in fact, he said at one point,
if he would have died, it would have been weeks before someone found his body, because he was
just completely isolated, so if I do that, I will start to induce these spiritual experiences,
or I open myself up to that, and AJ is an INFJ personality type, and they are naturally
mediumistic, they tune into this stuff really easily. Do you think, and this is interesting,
I got a probe just to keep the dialogue to keep moving forward with AJ, I want to focus on him
mainly in terms of what your position, as someone who saw his teachings early on and knows his person
and the people who were around him following, do you think when he was on air on my show,
and he, and I asked him where in the rings of hell, for example, Joseph Smith is, Joseph Smith
being the leader of the Mormon Church, and he turns his head for a second, and oh, hold on,
I don't know, and then he comes right back, oh, he's in the third ring, what do you think about
that, like, for me, as a skeptic, someone who's like, uh, you know,
writing up, or just pulled that out of his ass, but, right, that's what I think he did, honestly,
but then again, that's what you think he did, but that's not what he did.
He's actually channeling what he's saying, and if you watch him, he can talk for hours,
and you saw him talk for hours, but he can just go on any topic, and it's actually,
if you listen to him, it's very logical, he insists on things, and I think one of the comments on
your video was that internally, it's all very coherent. There was also some mistakes he made,
by the way. There were some mistakes, and that's, he's also human, and doesn't claim to be anything
other than human, that Jesus was nothing but human, which is, for me, a big improvement over
everything else already, so he mistook Esau for Ishmael, I believe, that was one.
So I guess what, it's, oh yeah, I make mistakes all the time too, don't get me wrong, I'm not
trying to say that. When someone's claiming to be Jesus and have lived for 2,000 years,
do you think he's lived for 2,000 years in some sense, and he's the same guy from the
first century? I mean, that's my question. Well, first of all, I don't believe that,
and I don't believe he's reincarnated, especially after, really, the eye-opener for me was when I
realized what his personality type was, and because he would never tell me, I ask him,
if he knew his Mars Briggs type, and then if you know, INFJs actually make great cult leaders,
he didn't want to own up to that, and it says it in the, I think, please understand me,
talks about that, but I ran a group, a Yahoo group, and I think it was called
Divine Love Path, Yahoo's kind of toasted all their groups, and it was very much a
support, and I posted something from Rick Ross, the 10 signs of a charismatic group leader,
and I went through and highlighted them, yellow and red and green, denoting whether AJ was actually
touching on those or not, and there were some that were in the red, yes, that he was, he was,
fell into that charismatic group leader status, some of them were not at all, because as far as
asking for money, that wasn't a thing. He financed himself, and, you know, he asked for donations
now, but at the time, it wasn't the case, and my title to the post was how we are going to keep
from falling into this trap of becoming a cult, and as soon as that posted the following week,
I'm getting messages from my, the acquaintances in Australia, Dean, AJ talked about you in his last
seminar, and he swore that he did not read the group, but that was a lie, he had Mary reading,
actually Mary wasn't totally involved with him at the time, maybe she was with him by then,
because I remember she was unable, she kept clearing her throat, because it was so uncomfortable for
her, but he basically did the Jehovah's Witness shun, which they're known for, and because I
was supporting him, I'd send him recording equipment, so he could get me the recordings
sooner from the seminars, and that was pretty much it, and that he kind of outed himself,
but that was a really strong charismatic group leader move, and it was an eye-opener for me,
he really did me a favor for sure, but it also doesn't necessarily invalidate other stuff that
he talks about, what the issue is, and I think for consenting adults, who cares if he's Jesus
or not, it doesn't matter, is he being abusive, and that's what began to happen over time,
and I've actually- Is this some examples of that, if you don't mind?
Yeah, in fact, I emailed you a person who's willing to talk to you, who's been on the ground there,
and Paul definitely will talk with you, and be able to give you a lot more detailed
interactions, because he went to all the seminars in person in Australia, but abusive,
telling people, and it starts to tap into false memory syndrome, telling them that things happen
to them, and blaming their parents, that's abusive, he broke up peoples or relationships,
you're not in this whole soulmate thing, well, you guys aren't soulmates.
That's that part where he talks about half spirits being created, all that, yeah.
You do realize that's all very platonic and neoplatonic, but it's nothing new,
so I mean, for me, that's all easy to assimilate from my philosophy background,
I've taken 24 hours of philosophy in college, plus I have a master's degree in religion and
spirituality, so it was easy, stuff I believed already, but when you start using that to
influence people and interfere with their relationships, interfere with their family,
Mary's brother had got in contact with me at one point, because I did run the group, and that's
where a lot of people reached out to me a lot from the press, and I was never interested in
talking to the press, I've always told people I've got information, I've just shared information,
I'm not out to get anybody, and you can make your own decision about that, but you should be aware
that some of this stuff can make you very easily manipulated, and the emotional stuff, you put
people in a very vulnerable emotional place, and you can manipulate them, especially if you're
saying that you're this authority in Jesus, and most of them have come from that Judeo-Christian
background, and some of the stuff I've seen and heard is just ridiculous from the people who followed
him, but it's understandable, it's understandable, they want it to be true, they are not happy with
their lives as they are, so he's offering something, he makes them feel special, you can see how
really relatable he is, and he's like that all the time, you did see that last email I saw,
I personally, I understood what he was saying in it, and even though he goes into that play the
victim role, it does that, and he may have some points, and I could see exactly what he was
talking about in a lot of it, I felt like the audio was a train wreck, on the podcast, the audio for
me, talking over and cutting out, it was a train wreck.
That happened, I just think the way he interpreted, see for those who are watching this, they don't
know yet, and I think it's important to give them a little background of this, when we recorded,
my buddy David actually bought that mic the day before, and he had the mic all the way turned up,
and I'm like dude, but here's the thing, there were a few issues, I didn't realize there were
that many issues, I think what really disturbed me was in the way he claimed complete victimhood,
yet he didn't just claim victim this, he didn't say oh I'm the martyr here, he went above and
beyond as a superiority, I'm superior than you, you need to come and work to my level, you need
to work up to my forgiveness, you need to do these things your axis needs to show, and he downplayed
anything we did, and that to me was abuse, and the way he communicated was abusive, he may have
been justified in saying look, I don't want a statue there in that intro music, and you know
there were a couple times the audio, can we cut those parts out, instead he came across very
aggressively abusive in a passive aggressive way, and I said to myself, whoa, who do you think you
are talking to me like that, because it felt like a father talking down to a child, and I was like,
whoa, who is this guy, you know? And that's typical for him, and it's you've harmed me,
and how could you, it's very manipulative, for sure, and definitely passive aggressive,
if he is not crazy, but his ex-wife has certainly categorized him as a malignant
narcissist, and if you look at someone with narcissistic personality disorder, that is his
behavior, I would never diagnose him like that myself, because I'm actually not qualified to
diagnose malignant narcissism, but I can certainly look at the behaviors on what he checks all the
boxes, and you can check that yourself, but he certainly manipulated Mary Luck,
the way he manipulated Mary Luck to get her into a relationship with him, she was very vulnerable,
this is an example of abuse, she had broken up with her boyfriend, in fact I was in Dallas
with him, and he's in the bedroom, and at whatever time she would be asleep in Australia,
he's in there sending her whatever vibes, manipulating her, having people check up on her,
the medium he had with him at the time, when she was asking her about them, and he even asked my
former partner to channel some of Mary and figure out what was happening with her,
that Elizabeth later told me, but that's all abusive, and he definitely impacted her family,
her brother, they were close families, and then she starts remembering abuse, and things that,
as Mary's brother Josh told me, never happened, and that's the essence of false memory syndrome.
Can I say that this isn't the first woman he's done this to either, prior to Mary,
from what I understand, and you might know of other women?
There was another Mary Magdalene, and she was a young girl, it's been a while since I've
been close to this, but I do know that one, and there might have been two other,
there was the young girl, and then there was the other, the one that's a tennis player or something,
and yeah, it's a manipulation, for sure, I think he had something happen to him,
and he remembered this stuff, but it was influence, and he was confused, it's easily
to be confused when you start experiencing these phenomenon, and I'm sure you're familiar with
the phenomenology, and we had these experiences, he had them, and he interpreted them incorrectly,
in fact, if he were just to apply his own cosmology and his own understanding of what's
happening with all, he was talking about Buddha and Muhammad in your interview I was listening
last night, and how they received their messages, and who they were actually talking to, he said,
but Ahmed was talking to the spirit Allah, not God Allah, and if he applied that to his own
experience, he would easily drop this and say, oh, I was confused, in fact, he wrote the email and said
he was confused, but he retracted it when the guy in Barbados really wanted that to be the case,
and encouraged him not to. Did you see the part where he mentioned one of the, because Dr. Robert
impressed, which by the way, Dr. Price is like, he's not even in this whole thing that I'm talking
to you about, like, he is just a third party, if you will, who was interested in what this guy's
saying, and really wants to write a, he believes it's an interesting phenomena that this guy's
claiming these things, but he wants to write the gospel for him, all that kind of stuff. Anyway,
he asked about, is it possible that I'm more than one Jesus on earth, that kind of thing,
and then he went into this whole, those are spirits over cloaking people, right?
Yeah.
Which I don't, I need, for me, me and you might be different in the way we approach this, but
I would need more evidence to suggest, you know, that any of that is the case, and this isn't some
other thing going on, but regardless of our positions, he didn't, like you said, internalize
that, and I said, how do we know that you're not over cloaked, right? So, and even though I don't
believe I played in the sandbox of this whole thing, being respectful, in that video, I don't think
I was disrespectful once in any way. I think there were some times I was like, whoa, like,
when he said the Gospels were mythology, and then he says, you know, Paul's epistles,
that some of that stuff might have been written later. The funny part about that is Dr. Price,
who's one of the unique double PhD New Testament scholars out there, his proposition is that the
Pauline epistles, he comes from what's called the Dutch radical school, I'll spare you all the
details, but anyway, is that Paul's epistles aren't actually first century, but they're later,
and when I looked at him, I was like, hey, what do you think of that? And Dr. Price is like,
this is interesting. This is fun. And it was very fun. But when I said, how do we know you're not
over cloaked, his example was, well, I don't change. And I thought to myself, that's so subjective to
make that kind of statement. You were an XJW, but now you know you're Jesus. That's a change,
unless you're saying, when the spirit, you know, what does he mean, like he never changes, you
know, his proof to himself is that he remembers everything from the first century. He remembers
everything about his life. But then when you talk to him, as you found, and ask him specifics,
he doesn't. But what he falls back to is, it's possible to do that. And that's, that's the part
that obviously any reasonable person would cast dispersion at, because you either can do it or
not. He says, well, can you speak Aramaic? Well, no, but it's possible. And here's the other thing.
He's you heard him briefly talk about the becoming at one with God, which was, you know, that's not
a foreign concept in Christian mysticism, especially. So that was always interesting to
me. And when I met him, he said he thought that was going to happen. This was back in 2008,
that that would be happened by May of 2008. And well, it's 2021 now. And I can tell you,
neither he nor any of his followers has progressed any further than they were when I
was associated, you know, following them or part of the kind of part of the part of the part of
the group. But it wasn't it wasn't what it is now. It was it was very loose. In fact, I was
organizing it. It wasn't him. I was organizing that group because I felt like there was something
to it. And it did not matter. His his identity did not matter at all. Is it true? Is it true that
he started this? I'm Jesus when he was 40, because I heard he said he 33. And there was a lot of
there. Yeah. And that that's when he first started having the experiences. It was around 33. He
starts having dreams and stuff. And this is what he's told me. And I'm not doing him justice in
my recounting. So I would let if he said something different, I would go with what he said. But
because he did tell tell me around 33 starts having these dreams. And it is disturbing. He
actually went to see a psychiatrist or psychologist. And he threatened to suit. I think he had the
record sealed and had threatened to sue that psychologist if he ever released it. But why do
you think that is? Because it was it either painted him as something different than he was
or something different than he was claiming to be. I would have to look back and see exactly
what happened. Sheree can tell you more about that. She was kind of I think still in the picture a
little. But he went to see this psychologist. He then at age 40, I think that's when he more
stepped into it and said, Oh, I'm Jesus. So the two are not not mutually exclusive. It could
both happen like like he's saying, if that's what he's saying. And I think that that's that that
jars with my experience with him. You were ex you were kind of you said shed off. He cut you off
shunned. Okay, so this Jehovah's Witness technique. Right. So let me can you go into that? Like,
what are some bad things that you recognize? I mean, obviously, there's the abuse in the way
that he does this passive aggressive type of abuse. And then also the childhood type of stuff
where I mean, obviously, the way he treated us, I feel even if and I say this Dean, if you and me,
right, we did this video and I sent you a version of it. And you said, I'm not satisfied with this
or that that long winded initial email that he sent the way overboard. And then when David and me,
we had to take a few days break because my mom taught me, I'm sure you've heard this saying
before, you know, if you don't have anything nice to say, don't say anything at all. So I waited,
me and David waited. I said, David, look, respond to him kindly. Let's see, you know,
be as nice as we can. Because that really upset that was the initial negative energy that came out
of this whole thing was started from him. The guy who's supposedly the positive, perfect example,
blah, blah, blah, came with negative energy. And everyone could see the screenshot. They've
already seen the screenshot of this email on this video. I said that to say David responded
with absolute kindness and was trying to like, you know, say, look, we'll fix this. I guess what
he wanted was a butt kisser. He wanted an absolute butt kisser in that email. I am super sorry. It
will not ever happen again. Like, is that how his followers treat him? A yes man? No, and that's
really not what he wanted either. I don't know. What did he want? I don't think that's what he
wanted. He's wanting an out and really just wanting to be able to point fingers at you. So
that gave him that opening to do that. He doesn't expect that to happen. He is very
specific and regimented with his relationships about the expectations, which I personally
have no problem with if you make an agreement and then you keep it. But he was just giving himself
an out and look how they've been condescending to me or whatever else. And I mean, if I was
listening and knew nothing, I could certainly see what he was talking about. But it's really
more of him just giving himself an out. And that's what he's done in the past. If you look back at,
I think Adelaide, he did something in Adelaide. And then when Segal came out with this stuff,
and there were a couple of other guys that did some crazy over the top reporting. I forget the
new show there in Australia. It's over the top with the music. And if you really want to be
objective, just ask because he will tell you enough stuff that will either offend you or
be controversial without adding to the drama of it all. But like I said, I think he's just
giving himself another out and look, they've abused me, which is classic narcissism.
Right. And that's what narcissists do. How could you treat me like this and
project that onto the other person or other people?
Well said. What happened to you? Other than you ended up reporting, let's not become a cold.
Obviously, we want to be careful. And you spoke your mind. It sounds to me, and I say this,
like, I really think you're a great guy just from talking to you already. I can tell you carry
your heart on your sleeve. I want to know more about what happened to you. And maybe some of
the other members, maybe you've witnessed things happen to that were shunned or treated misfairly
in some way. Is that something we can comment on? You know, he read a post to the Yahoo group,
which was a, I think is a closed group at the time that he said he never read, but he pulls it
out in one of his seminars and starts dissecting it and psychoanalyzing me in front of the group
and attributing all kinds of negative motives to me, which wasn't the case. And I categorically,
whenever it happened, went through and pointed out how he was wrong. And the fact that he was,
you know, he says he can feel your emotions. And in fact, he can. He's very empathic. And you are
empathic. Everyone's empathic. That's your Meso-Olympic system. We evolved because we had that
ability. It's much easier to make survival decisions at that feeling emotional level than it is to
process it through our prefrontal cortex. But so he can feel it. He's very in tune emotionally.
He's very empathic. He does probably use some cold reading techniques with people. If you've
seen the South Park episode of John Edward is the biggest news in the universe. I love that show.
Yeah. Well, if you want a lesson on how to fake spiritualism, which it's easy. Again,
it's easy to fake. You can watch that episode and they go through how a cold reading goes.
And just because some people fake it, though, doesn't mean, from my perspective, that for
other people, it's not legit. And it's not real because I've seen it and I've experienced it
myself. So I know it. You know, once I experience it happened. So it's for me, it's no longer
belief based. But the fact that he psychoanalyzed me and misattributed my motivations and then went
on to he said something like, I think he still lives with his mother, which he knew wasn't true.
He knew it wasn't true. And but he threw that out there like a little jab, disparagement.
And, you know, things like that. He really outed himself for me, which was, as I said,
very useful to me. And tapping into what he really teaches about is the emotional or what
he was attractive was the emotional piece. It allowed me to tap into my own emotional
stuff that I probably wouldn't have gotten to otherwise. Betrayal is a big core issue
for a lot of people. In fact, I've worked with clients on a lot of this stuff on their core
issues. What's the real reason you're using drugs and alcohol? Right? What emotions are you not
wanting to feel? It's all related to early childhood trauma. And AJ is really insightful
with a lot of that. In fact, I learned a lot of what I do now from him. I just can't attribute
attribute it to him because he's off the reservation making claims that are unnecessary.
Right? As I said, if you were to take away all that Jesus shtick from from that interview,
you would actually and certainly the PhD you had with him would certainly agree with that
assessment of the New Testament and how what happened with that Jesus story or Jesus myth,
you would completely agree with that. If you look at some of the stuff from a psychological
perspective, you would think that that's nothing new. In fact, I went back and I read everybody
that if I find an author or a teacher, I go read everything they read or they look at the
bibliography and I go read all that. Well, I went and read everything that AJ read. He
actually gave me his book list and I read it and it was basically inner child work
warmed over. And there was a reason inner child work went south back in the late 80s
with John Bradshaw. People started having false memory syndrome. These therapists were
giving people psycho suggestions and leading questions and they were remembering stuff that
we know didn't happen because the person they were accusing was in another part of the world.
But they're remembering abuse. So yeah, that's that's easy to abuse. You have to be very careful
with that stuff. There are followers of his right now that are probably watching this or
they might be watching this themselves. And I say that because I received a comment on that video.
And that video had something to say like these people, they want to discredit AJ.
They have bad motivation. Like you're just talking about the whole thing. What is your
motivation, Dean? I mean, like it doesn't sound. In fact, I have to say from my perspective and
then I'd love to have you speak. If anything, you've gone aback for him quite often in this
episode and I honestly wouldn't go that far. I would personally have more to say on the other end.
Giving him the benefit of the doubt suggesting a lot of people do come into these ideas, emotional
stuff. I'm sure that there's stuff there. That's why it's packaged and it looks good and it's
probably a great experience for many people. Scientology does the same thing. The Mormons,
most Colson religions in the world have that experiential thing and he does tap work. Yeah,
it works and he's tapping into that same thing. But then he goes out into this. And so are you
discredited? Are you like you have negative energy towards him? Are you intentionally wanting to
be negative and bad toward this guy? Or are you just pointing out the facts from your own
perspective and saying, look, this is my opinion on these things and this you could take it or
leave it. Yeah, I've always told people that I'm just all I just have information and you
can do what you want with the information. But I think it's fake. I've got to see him up close
and personal, something people just will not get the chance to do. I mean, actually stay in the same
house with him in 24 seven for five days. Nobody's getting that opportunity anymore. Now that he's
come out and insisted on the Jesus stick. In fact, one of my acquaintances and over in Nevada,
I think he lives in San Diego now said AJ came out and they went out to their this property in
Arizona because he's wanting to put in a learning center. And the the acquaintance of mine said,
yeah, after three days in the car with him, he realized he's not Jesus. Oh, yeah.
Comes out and he he he does it doesn't all add up. There's some incongruities there if you get to see
him up close and personal. But if you're only seeing him at these seminars, or only seeing
him on videos, a lot of it, and especially when he's talking about some of the spiritual pieces,
is very credible. It's useful. And again, take away the I'm Jesus part. And there's value there.
It's unfortunate to me that he needed that he's such, I guess, didn't think that AJ Miller
was significant enough to just come and share this stuff with people himself.
And it would have been totally useful. He had to add that had to add that Jesus spiel.
And then it just becomes about that versus here's some ways to address some of your emotional issues.
Here's what's really happening. In fact, I still refer to him as a teacher in Australia.
So because I won't say his name, because I don't want people getting sucked into him.
But he has a unique view of the law of attraction. And I still think it's the one unique thing about
him. He says it's not what you're thinking. It's what you're feeling. And again, it's all stuff
you can test out for yourself. You can try it. And I think you will can get results. It's again,
just unfortunate that he has to throw in the Jesus part with it. And he could have just
been AJ Miller and been like any other teacher. But you also heard about the other people involved
because there's the 14, I believe it was. Yeah, what's over that?
He incarnated with them. And he mentioned his daughter. I forget her name up in Canada and
her partner, I think I forget their names. They actually were down in Dallas when my ex was there
with them. So she got to meet them. Then there's John Krepholdt, who was murdered.
He was John, I think he was John, not John the Baptist. Then there is goodness, the guy that's
still here. What happened with him getting murdered? Was that something irrelevant that just
had something? Well, John was gay. He had these beautiful gardens over in western Australia. And
I believe that's yeah, it's western Australia. And
there was someone living there that was in love with John and infatuated with him. And John was
not returning the same feelings and the guy killed him. And it's really tragic. He was AJ's
best friend. I think they'd grown up with the Joe Hoviz witnesses together. But then there's the
the other guy that's still with them. That is, oh, he's the Roman soldier that supposedly
Cornelius. Yeah, he's a little, he thought he was Jesus, by the way, until John and AJ
said him straight that he wasn't Jesus, that AJ is Jesus. What do you think that is? I mean,
honestly, I think it's that you open yourself up with the spiritual, the either the spiritual
influence, it could be with substances, it could be with silence and solitude or other spiritual
fasting, other things you could have some, something happen with your brain. Like if you
have a tumor in your brain, you may start hearing voices, right? Right. Or seeing things. I'm looking,
you know, I'm looking at natural explanations, because I'm like, you know, where I'm at with
this. I'm like, it makes me think there's something that makes me think that there's
something going on like your client, one of your clients currently thinks that are Jesus. And
he thought he was. Oh, he thought he was. Okay. So you talked to him about that and like,
I gave him a spiritualist perspective and suggested that, you know, you took this and
no, you're not Jesus. But that that is a whole archetype, right? Just like Mary Magdalene is
an archetype of sorts. And so people tap into that to our collective unconscious. Even things
like epigenetics, I'm sure you're familiar with that and how we can inherit some of this stuff
at a physiological level, things that did not happen to us that we have impacts with, especially
trauma that gets passed down. And we're reacting to stuff that we never expect.
You touched your mic. Sorry, your mic. Sorry. Working again. Yep. Oh, you're out again.
The spirits are trying to stop you, Dean. I'm just kidding. Nope, you got to hit it again.
It's off there. There you go. There you go. I'll try to be aware of that. But
in fact, that that is speaking of spirits and electronics, there's something called
electronic voice phenomenon. And as you notice, spiritualism is everywhere in the culture.
They've got the ghost hunter shows, the medium shows, it's out there. And
people were actually having these experiences, and it's getting more and more normalized. And
again, just because I don't necessarily have, I'm not able to channel stuff, doesn't mean other
people can't. Could it be natural phenomenon? I mean, I know that you're not, you don't think
that's the answer. But is it possible in your, in your worldview that the natural things facilitate
that communication? So I have a something happening in my brain. Maybe I assault assaulted with alcohol,
right? And Bill W. I'm sure you know his story. Oh, yeah. Belladonna, he starts seeing stuff.
Well, he was testing LSD for a while and everything to try and cure his
seven years and what had a plan for everybody in AA to get, to be given a LSD. So Bill W,
in my opinion, was just a dry drunk. But I'm not a 12th stepper. So,
right. But he, he, he had assaulted his brain with alcohol. So it makes it very easy for
that influence to happen. So when I, when I don't have conscious control of myself,
of my free will or my executive functioning, it makes it influence very easy to step in and
wreak havoc or mess with me as I would say, because I've had it happen to me personally.
And I was like, wow, this is cool. I'm seeing some cool stuff. I love to see stuff. As I tell
clients, LSD is my drug of choice. And I like to hear voices and all this other stuff. But it
was really fascinating when it was happening without any of that. And as people will say,
especially in the spiritualist literature, if you want to go to AJ sources, Robert, Robert Lee's,
Robert James Lee's, through the mist, that trilogy is where he gets a lot of his stuff.
And it describes life in the spiritual realm. And they suggest, and this was my experience,
that that spiritual realm is even more real than the physical. And that
I mean, dreams, sometimes we have a dream and the dream seems more real than reality. But
I would also suggest that in your, and AJ has a talk about this, but this is not unique to him.
In your sleep state, dream state, you're actually in the spiritual realm and have in your
interacting at that level. I think artists and musicians and creative people, they tap into that.
In fact, I heard that myself. I was like, wow, this is how these people are coming up with
writing this music, because I could hear the music. And it would be if I was musical, it'd
have been very easy just to transcribe that stuff. And I'd have great, great music. But
it's the same me you, if you will. And so whether it's I'm dreaming, or I'm on psychedelics,
or I've fasted and had been in the desert in solitude praying, meditating, doing a vipassana
10 day vipassana meditation retreat, which I've done a couple of those, whatever it is,
you can induce these spiritual experiences. And you can do that without any, any physiological
problems with your brain. But if you do have something happening physically in your brain,
that may also induce it more, especially with epilepsy, we see that historically,
that people have the when they have an epileptic fit. I'm sure that's not the politically
correct thing to call it anymore. But when they do, they have these vision episode or whatever.
Yeah, yeah, episode is probably much better. But I get clients that have had epilepsy. And
that's the first thing I ask them, do you see cool stuff? When you have them, some of them do,
some of most of them don't. But it's, it's phenomenology. And just if, if I only want to
acknowledge what's in the physical, that doesn't mean there's not something in a spiritual realm
that for me is just right over my shoulder, and that people can tap into, including myself,
I can tap into that, but I can also teach you to tap into that. And that's, you know, that's,
for me, that's how you have to investigate something like this, you can't use the tools of
physical science to invest, investigate the spiritual, it won't work. But it doesn't mean
that that spiritual is not there. Yeah. So for me, and I've experienced these things,
I've also done psychedelics quite often and, you know, definitely had an addiction to heroin,
of course, other drugs as well. I've kind of jack of all trades when it came to being kind of a
connoisseur of all sorts of chemicals. But I also know the brain produces a lot of these
things naturally. So these experiences are extremely subjective. And in my opinion,
anyone can tap into them because we're all physiologically similar in many ways and carry
these same properties and principles, like just the way that we're built. So for me,
I have a natural outlook. I'm not saying it's not possible that that realm and the dimension
isn't there. For me, though, I wonder if it's the same reaction that we're all experiencing
similar things, but we also carry certain cultural tendencies. Some might see elves,
others might see Jesus, heaven, hell, and that's all subjective. So to, in my opinion,
this is just my kind of conclusion is to project that that spiritual is a concrete,
literal reality as if this is absolute and that there's some universal consciousness and stuff
beyond the mind that we're projecting because we have multiple minds and stuff in the philosophy
of that. I'm more skeptical of that than I used to be. I mean, I used to be more open to it. I'm
not saying it's not possible, Dean. Don't take me to the bank saying, I'm saying, no, that's not
true. What I'm saying is I think there's a natural explanation. And I guess what I'm getting at is
we can experiment and test these things and go to those places and experience those things.
And they're very therapeutic and valuable. So I don't want to discredit the doing of these things
and these practical application of these ideas. In fact, right now, they're doing great research
on psychedelics for PTSD, depression. You want to experience death before death? I might be
interviewing a guy. You might have heard of him, Brian C. Madadescu, the immortality key. He wrote
a book called The Immortality Key and he goes into how the ancients and all the mystics and you
name it, they want to experience death before they die. So I guess what I'm getting at is I think
it's a subjective human experience that we all do. It's cool. We could tap into it. I just personally
think there's a natural reason why we do those things. I don't think that's necessarily the true
reality in some philosophical sense, if that makes sense. Yeah, I hear what you're saying.
And yes, if I get a big hit of serotonin from doing LSD, I may have this experience,
but what I'm suggesting is I can have that experience without that big hit of serotonin.
So quick question. You can have that experience without the LSD in your system.
Yeah, or anything else that's actually jacking up my serotonin. Could you naturally jack your
serotonin up through meditation or something like that? Yeah, if you were meditating, but I
know people that can, including my ex, she could just completely just sit there and tune in to that
spiritual realm. And you don't think there's a mental health scenario there? There might be
something because I know schizophrenics that hear voices all the time and see things. I don't really
believe in all that. The DSM is a travesty as a psychiatrist. William Glasser said,
it's the most harmful book ever written. And he was a psychiatrist. I'm more of the already laying
school of thought. And pathologizing people's experiences is usually not helpful. I've had
plenty of clients that are that have been classified as schizophrenic. But when I explained to them
what's happening, they learned to manage that and they see it not as debilitating because they're
able to put all the, as I said, that play by play out of their head, which is debilitating. I've
experienced it myself. And they're able to tap into higher level consciousness and bring and
tap into their own spiritual guidance. And then they've got a gift. And I know people that are
gifted like that. Do they take any medications? I mean, we're getting off track, but I just kind of,
this is a great conversation. I usually help them get off medications. Those medications,
there is no such thing as chemical imbalance, just so you know, that's never been proven.
And those medications are usually debilitating. In fact, the film to watch is crazy wise for
anybody that's listening. And your perspective outcome, if you have a mental health issue
in the developed countries is worse than if you were in a third world or undeveloped country,
even with all our modern psychiatry and all the medications. So I don't label people like that.
I help them understand it from a different perspective. I have people come in, they're
hearing voices, they're able to turn those down. I teach them how to turn them down and tap into
something better that's going to be supportive of them. And then they realize they are gifted and
they just happen to be people who are media mystic. Just because that's not me normally,
doesn't mean other people aren't or can't be that. So I know people right now that can do that.
AJ is very media mystic, by the way. So he's tapping into a lot of it. When he just checked in,
that's exactly what he was doing. He's got these spirits that are communicating with them.
Let me ask you this, the information that he gives, because I'm highly critical of any of that
stuff. I mean, it just comes natural for me to think, come on, man, anyone can do that or say
that, that Joseph Smith is in the third ring of hell. What is your idea of the rings of hell,
the idea of Joseph Smith being in this? And if he's hearing a voice, what is your opinion of that?
He said that Joseph Smith is in the third sphere and he didn't mean hell. There's the
astral realm, the first sphere, second sphere, third sphere, up to the eighth sphere. And then
supposedly beyond that, you are at one with God. So he basically said Joseph Smith has progressed,
but he also said many of the disciples passed into the hells. And the hells, as you've
experienced in your own addiction, well, you know what hell is like, and you haven't even had to die.
That darkness, that lack of hope. And I've experienced those as well. And it was, I tell
people, I got a tour of the hells. And it was an eye-opener. And it's a much more plausible
theodicy, a much more plausible cosmology than anything else that a loving God,
if you want to believe in that, or just a loving universe. I think the doctor that was with you
can't ever remember price, is it? Yeah, Dr. Price. Dr. Price, I noticed he's a student of Paul Tillich.
So Paul Tillich says God is the ground of being. A spiritual naturalist like Michael Dad would say,
reality is the secular name for God. And if that reality is God, which that would be along my own
lines of thought. But if this loving reality is there, that would be a much more plausible thing
that you pass, you process your emotions, and the way you move into these higher realms,
and more loving experiences is to process the negative stuff. And that's what AJ was saying
happened. I don't really see any reason for him to get fixated on all this. And it's unfortunate,
but he obviously has whatever insecurity, or has whatever over cloaking influence
that he says can't happen to him, but that apparently happens to everybody else. If he
would just apply his own own philosophy to himself, he would be okay. Yeah, there's like that ego,
that narcissistic position, I think. But yeah, I think I draw a different conclusion, of course.
But look, it just blew me away, honestly, his email and then finding out a lot of the trauma
that his ex-wife had to go through. I found a YouTube video with her. You could tell she was
hurt by the whole thing. And then, of course, there are children involved. And so there's a
sad situation where one of the kids believes that he is Jesus. Yeah, Tristan does. Well,
Tristan really wants to be somebody. So he wants to be a star. He wants to be famous.
So the fact that my dad is Jesus is an obvious end with that. And her other son, who I'm not going
to name, is much more standoffish, skeptical, at least the last time I checked. So yeah,
it's impactful. It's unfortunate. He certainly, as she said, malignant narcissist. Well,
that's true. We've got plenty of malignant narcissist. Donald Trump is a prime example. If
you want to see a malignant narcissist, there you go. And you can see exactly how they behave.
That's typical. And it's very common. Even psychopathy is common with CEOs. In fact,
there's, I think it's the psychopath test or something, was a book that came out several
years ago. And it claimed that all these CEOs are actually very psychopathic with the way they
engage other people and have disregard for other people. Yeah, strange
empathies. Well, you don't have a circuit in your brain for empathy. So everybody else is
someone to use for my own ends. Oftentimes, it's like their ego or selfishness is so
high up for whatever reason. The narcissism has them only concerned about their own
being. So as long as you don't harm me, and that's kind of the path that it seems like.
And I kind of wonder, because in my experience with that, I'm just going to point it back to
AJ here for a second. When he emailed us the initial criticism, and then David emailed him back
politely trying to correct, and what do we need to do? How can we fix this? Then he comes back again.
I think you were right. That's intentional. And one of the guys who was a reporter that I think it
was New York Times that like hired him to go out there or something. Segal. Yeah, he received an
email very similar to the one we received. So does it look almost the same? I need to get a
you know, it's typical and he writes those emails and sometimes Mary is attributed or
is the author of whatever missive that gets published. But you can tell AJ dictated it or
wrote it or was the person behind it because it's written in his style. That is easy, pretty easy to
spot. And again, that's all unfortunate because he really he did have some very useful helpful
stuff. And even as he said in the interview, the main for him, the main thing, which is obviously
not true is not whether about his identity, but it's about people's relationship with God
and how they see God. And if he would have just dropped the identity, he could then point people
to that in a possibly healthy way. But he's gotten stuck on that identity, which is sad.
Yeah, it is sad. It is. Dean, this has been like a fascinating conversation and really
interesting getting into the mind of someone who actually was there, has met him, knows him in
person, studied his teachings, read books that he's read, knows the relationships he's built
around him, seen the people he shunned, including yourself and the treatment that you've had,
which is similar. I feel like we recently that that kind of it made me remind me of Joseph Smith
in a way, like, which is interesting that we brought him up on the show, just the way that
the Mormons act as if Joseph Smith was a complete martyr. Even at his death, they deny that he
shot back and hit people with bullets like Joseph Smith never did it. You know, the martyrdom
thing that they, oh, everyone was against us. Missouri Mormon War, the Missouri,
Missourians did this. Every time it was always everyone else's fault. And that is a horrible,
horrible way to think. In fact, when I started getting clean, for example, off drugs and alcohol,
the number one problem I had was blaming the whole world or blaming everyone else.
I never looked at myself in the mirror. Today, I know how to look at myself in the
mirror and go, hold on. And I try to give him a chance with that initial email, like, okay,
maybe when David responds back in kindness, he will take that and, you know, like, okay, look,
their intention. Let me read their energies and their intentions and realize that they're
not coming out with that. That really upset me with his second response to David, who has been
over backwards. David offered to buy him 4G or 5G, like Modem, to have the internet, like,
was willing to potentially spend some money to have him go to a local production studio
so we could do a video and record. Like, he was willing to do, you know, lots of good things and
be kind and creative relationship. I don't think they wanted that relationship to be so.
And that's why they had walls up, purposely preventing anything from
fixing or trying to mend or make things right. All they had to do was say, here's a couple of
things I don't like about the video. Fix those things in the video's A-okay. No, he didn't do
that. He came across very blunt and extremely OCD in the manner in which he was trying to
tackle these things. You know what I mean? That's all just typical of him. And again,
that whole narcissistic blow-off and not wanting to take responsibility or to play that victim.
How could you do this to me? Because then I've got it out. And there's nothing
that the true believer can't rationalize or justify so that obviously gave him cover with his,
the people that still are enmeshed with him to say, look, they did this to me. How could they?
And you saw some of them come out of the woodwork and post to your YouTube video
that day about how great he is. And that's the thing. If you just go to, if you just listen to
him and you eliminate the, I'm Jesus part, which you can do if you go to one of his,
listen to one of his seminars. He's talking about other things. You would not understand.
You wouldn't have seen him up close and personal. So that's really what's my motivation
back in the day was just know this for yourself. Then you can make a good decision or
understand this, go learn whatever from him, take the useful stuff, leave the rest.
As you said, even Scientology has some things that resonate or that actually may work for people.
It's got some psychological impact. So use it and leave the rest, but don't get sucked into
that cult of personality and his whole shtick with I'm Jesus.
Dean, thank you so much for joining me, man. I really do appreciate that. And I'm
very pleased with your demeanor and the way that you presented yourself. You seem like you don't
have any ill intent toward him or the movement or anything that he has. You're just pointing out
some stuff. And I really do appreciate your honesty and coming on here and discussing these things.
I hope to get in contact with some of these other people to be able to hear them come from their
point of view and just to learn from you guys on who this man, AJ, who claims to be Jesus really is,
in light of the recent debacle, as well as the interview that we had, which my entire channel
is about like, there's questions of if Jesus even existed in scholarship. So I entertain all this
and I question and I challenge and I ask everybody to think critically. So if you've been watching
this so far, I want you to use your critical thinking skills and take what you think makes
sense and challenge some of this stuff. I mean, for me, ultimately, I think that this is how stuff
can go real dangerous real quick. When I would take what Dean is saying and his advice, if you're
someone who is a spiritualist, you know, running into the hole, I'm identifying as the chief head
honcho. I am the guy, the ego. You end up in those drinking Kool-Aid scenarios or possibly
David Koresh scenarios or some strange ego builds up to a point where it becomes dangerous. And
there's been claims that what AJ has done is caused divorces. Oh, my video went out.
My battery died, but he's caused divorces and he's caused quite a bit of issues in families and
stuff. So would you like to comment on that before we go? That is absolutely true as far as
issues with family and relationship breaking up. In fact, one person I knew had a intervention
with Rick Ross, the cult D programmer. His partner was sucked into AJ and I actually advised him to
call Rick Ross and do a D programming and it started to work. And then she just went back
to it and he wound up having to, you know, they lived in California. He had to move back to Scotland,
I believe, where he was from and totally blew his relationship with the person he knew out of the
water because she got sucked into AJ and you know, it's all this stuff that you can just get
enmeshed with at an emotional level. That's just, it's not healthy, especially when you start
remembering stuff that didn't happen or start remembering like Mary Luck, his partner, AJ's
partner, all these things about I'm Mary Magdalene. Well, that is psycho suggestion. AJ is very
influential with her and that's crazy. What do you think about the whole thing with him saying
she was raped by her father from six to 12? I mean, I mean, look, I'm a married man. I would
never say that about my wife, even if it was something that was, you know what I mean? Like,
I don't know how he's not sad. You know, that's all just unnecessary speculation. You know, as you
heard, AJ is very much a feminist and he would even say that the first century Jesus was very
much a feminist. He talked about misogyny. Like I said, you would agree with a lot of the stuff
and I would suggest that just that whole ethos of that Mediterranean culture,
that's not certainly not out of the question. But what's it matter? It doesn't matter. It's stupid.
You know, it's what's the message. And if you really want to be Jesus, well, the historical Jesus
had one very simple message. Love your neighbor and love yourself. And that was it.
It's even questionable whether love God was part of that. So that is the ideal and you don't
necessarily need all these other stories and embellishments to make it mean anything. People
get sucked into that. It's interesting, right? It's cool and interesting, just like he used the
earth changes to get a lot of people interested because that taps into our evolutionary biology
and taps into that fundamental safety and OK. And he's talking about this in 2012 coming up,
things like that, you better prepare, you know, preppers are a big thing. And even in the woods,
I know there's a lot of preppers in your neck of the woods. And there that that that's a whole
energy that taps into our evolutionary biology. And he certainly played that really well. But
I see it with other other leaders like this. It's a big attention grabber. And it's also,
from my perspective, my again, my spiritualist perspective, it's these spirits messing with
people and whether they're mischievous or just having to go. Because if you understand or have
a grasp of eternity, and you imagine a spirit that stuck in not knowing what they're doing,
and they got nothing better to do than mess with people. I'm trying not to use my
work language on your show, the the really straightforward language, but they will mess
with people. And it's amusing, right? You can I could completely mess with you and poke you and
see let's see what I can get Derek to do. That's all crazy. Well, I've experienced that myself.
I know other people that have. And it's easy. It's easy to fall for. It's when discernment comes
in. And that's the thing with the whole spiritual community, discernment is usually lacking. And
you do that in community, you don't do that by yourself, saying, Well, I remember everything
from my life in the first century and 2000 years in the spiritual realm. So yeah,
I think that's just his selling point to gain attention. I just
it absolutely was. And but I think he was being influenced to do that. And I don't think it was
premeditated. None of this was premeditated of let me figure this out. And let's see how I'm going
to get to be here. He was a elder with the with the JWs. And he wanted he wanted to be this person,
an important person. He spoke in front of large audiences with them.
And he just he has his own emotional issues that he hasn't actually addressed. And if he
would address them, he could drop the Jesus stick worthwhile. I'm not saying this is all a hoax.
I'm not saying he's even when I mean, you would disagree on some stuff. I'm not saying this is
all like he planned and purposely did. No, I think but I do think that there is some line
going on while simultaneously, possibly some delusional stuff going on in my in my worldview.
So, you know, I'd like everybody else to give me your thoughts. I mean, there's people who are
spiritualists that watch this show, mostly skeptics who are probably more naturalist. But
nonetheless, your angle coming in with a new perspective. It's interesting. It's interesting
to hear it. Yeah, I do have to go. But let me give one plug for you. And it's a friend of mine's
website, the Spiritual Naturalist Society. So they bring together the two in a way that I think
people that maybe skeptics could find a lot of benefit from. And and it it naturalizes what
we would say is the supernatural and and spirituality, because my definition of spirituality,
it's about connection. That's why I said I don't believe in atheists, because you experience
connection with your child, with your partner, with other people out in nature, you experience
connection. So it's really not possible to not feel that connection with reality.
And you're defining God as a ground of being. So that the difference so is the way you're
defining God in that particular. Absolutely. And just because you don't believe in Sky Daddy,
doesn't mean there's not something that's connecting you to all that is because you
actually grew out of the universe. You grew out of your mother, and you are part of all that is.
So that is that Spiritual Naturalist Society. Check out their website. You can do a Google
search on it. You will find a different perspective that I think some skeptics and people that are
scientific minded like myself can relate to and may enhance their own experience. But I
appreciate your questions. And I do have to run. Yeah.
But I thank you so much. And look, maybe we can have another chat. I'd love to get someone else
also to come on. You know, email me, shoot me a message. Ladies and gentlemen, hit that like button.
Subscribe to the channel. Hit the bell. You guys can get all sorts of information here at
MedVision Podcast. And please, show kind words to our friend Dean here for coming on. You may not
agree with everything he says. That doesn't mean we have to be rude or disrespectful. You know,
I did have obviously some words to say about Jesus for claiming to be Jesus. But that's
because I do think that's silliness. Even Dean agrees with me, even though we disagree on some
other stuff. So with that being said, there's going to be more content coming here. And thank you
once again, Dean, ladies and gentlemen, never forget we are MedVision.
Thank you.
