Ladies and gentlemen, join MythVision's Patreon, not only to support us, but there are 72 videos
that I did with Dr. Dennis R. MacDonald and Richard Carrier, all on the Patreon, Early
Access.
You guys can ask personal questions when I go to interview these scholars and your help
on MythVision Grow.
Dr. Dennis R. MacDonald, one of my Patreon fans, Michael Baca, asks, Derek, one for
Dr. MacDonald, what are the clearest examples of Homeric or other Greek influences like
Euripides on the Gospels and Acts that can be easily dismissed by scholars as examples
of parallelomania?
Does the lack of current scholarly acceptance of your ideas, an example of what Thomas Kuhn
called being locked into a paradigm that doesn't permit other types of evidence to be considered,
seems like a common problem in the guild you use as you term it?
Where scholars, as diverse as Robert Eisenman, James Valiant, Richard Carrier, as well as
countless others, don't even get a hearing or a mention in scholarship?
It is as if other ideas aren't even possible to consider.
Perhaps you have some comments on this phenomena and how this could possibly change in the
future.
Dr. MacDonald, Michael, that's a great question, but first, Derek, thank you for having me on
this show and for taking an interest in my work in the past, and it's a pleasure to have
you here in Southern California.
Thank you.
Michael, your question is very good, and it, of course, would require an answer longer
than I'm able to give you right now.
All disciplines have their matrices.
That is, students are taught according to certain recognized patterns.
You have it in the sciences, you have it in the humanities, and it's inconvenient truths
that often get scholarship to move from the paradigms that it's familiar with and that
students have used to craft their careers, and so there's a lot at stake in a paradigm
shift.
I understand that, and I grew up with those paradigms, but as I worked, I realized that
there was so much Homeric imitation in the New Testament, and I want to just give you
a little biographical background of how that happened.
When I was a student at Harvard, my minor was Latin reception of Greek philosophy, and
I began to love classics, but one thing that became clear to me is that the entire absence
of the Homeric epics from biblical scholarship was unacceptable because the Homeric epics
were the defining literature for Greek speakers and even in the Roman Empire.
Furthermore, we know that mimesis, or literary imitation, was the way that people not only
learned to compose, but they learned to craft alternative identities, such as Virgil's
Aeneid, rewriting Homer, and so the entire absence of the Homeric epics and mimesis from
the methodologies of New Testament scholarship seemed to me to be a major shortcoming.
When I was teaching at Harvard as a visiting professor, I renewed my friendship with one
of the great Homeric scholars of all time, Albert Lord, and I became encouraged by him
to pursue the Homeric epics and early Christian texts, and my first salvo into that was to
the Acts of Andrew, and I published three books that were related to that, but I found
it also frequently in the New Testament.
The three examples I'm going to give you of the clearest examples of mimesis are going
to be these. First, I want to talk about the death of Hector and the death of Jesus. There
are so many similarities, and they match the criteria of mimesis criticism, which you
apparently are somewhat familiar. Jesus dies alone as a young man tragically. He thinks
his gods have abandoned him, or God has abandoned him, just as Hector realizes that his gods,
especially Apollo, have abandoned him. Three women watch the death of Jesus according to
Mark from a distance, and you have three women who mourn Hector in the Iliad, the Andromache,
Helen, and Hecuba. You also have the rescue of a corpse by Priam, so he has to get Hector's
body from Achilles, and he ransoms him at night. But the difference is obvious that Hector's
body stays in the tomb, and Jesus' rises from the dead. No one has satisfactorily given
an alternative understanding of those narrative parallels apart from Homer's Iliad, and Virgil
imitates the same story for the death of Ternus at the end of the Iliad. So we know that this
story was popular, it had been similarly imitated, and there's reason to think that the author
of the Gospel of Mark wanted to make the point that Jesus rises from the dead, whereas Hector
stays in his tomb. Another striking example is the woman who anoints Jesus for his burial,
which is very similar to Euryclea washing Odysseus' feet and recognizing her master.
Another spectacular example is the garrison demoniac and polyphemus. Jesus sails to a
shore. He finds a man no one can subdue living in caves. There's a lie about one's identity. Odysseus
says that his name is Utes, meaning nobody, and the garrison demoniac says that he is
legion because there are many demons that are there. Jesus turns the soldiers into swine,
the way Searcy turns the soldiers into swine in the Odyssey. There are so many examples
that I could give you, Mike, that I think would satisfy your question. But I appreciate
your attention to this, and it is painful for me to realize that the discipline that
I love so much and have contributed to, it has a tin ear to mimesis and classical Greek
poetry, and I actually am somewhat embarrassed that the mimesis critical orientation and
the use of Homer in the New Testament gets so closely identified with me. I'm simply
a beggar who found some bread and is interested in sharing the bread. The beggar doesn't deserve
as much credit as sometimes is given. These materials are there. They're inconvenient
facts to my discipline, but the way science changes is because of inconvenient facts.
So as you go into the future, and Michael's question, just to conclude this particular
episode, Michael does ask, you know, perhaps you have some comments on this phenomenon,
how it could possibly change in the future. So as we're closing, how can we change this?
What do you think the course of action should be?
I know that most readers of the New Testament cannot become classicists and read Homeric
Greek, which is very difficult. So we need to have publications that make that more
accessible. And I'm preparing a major reference work called a Mimetic Synopsis of the Gospels,
in which I give my own translations of Homer or Euripides or Sophocles and help the reader
see the parallels and make their own judgments about how they could be connected. In some
cases, maybe it's simply a cultural influence, that Homer influences the culture and Mark
parrots it. But I think it's more intentional than that. I think that early Christians were
carving their identity by evoking not only Jewish scriptures as the canonical past,
but also the Homeric epics and Athenian tragedy as a canonical past.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
