Music
We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision podcast.
Your host, Derek Lambert.
Ladies and gentlemen, right now up front.
I need you to stop what you're doing.
Of course, we're going to talk about the death of Joseph Smith,
but you can't initiate yourself into this story without going
and joining the patron of my good friends here.
Bryce Blankenagle has a patron right now.
He needs your help.
He needs your help to make sure he can keep doing what he's doing.
And I really appreciate you guys coming on
and everything you guys have brought to the table.
Dave Fitzgerald also has a patron.
His wife had to make for him.
That's right.
Don't let him lie to you.
Listen, either way, you got to help these guys out.
I'm asking for help to help these guys.
That's me up front. I'm just plugging.
Shameless, I know. I just do it.
And we're going to get into Joseph Smith's death today.
What an interesting journey it's been so far.
HBO, every frickin' platform out there.
Netflix, are you guys paying attention?
You really, really should.
Because this is a side of Mormon history.
You don't hear from Mormons.
You won't hear from Mormons.
And so with that being said, we have the host of
Naked Mormonism Podcast, Bryce Blankenagle,
and the author of the Complete Heretics Guide
to Western Religions, The Mormons.
The Mormons. Sorry.
Dave Fitzgerald and I'm going to exit the scene here, guys,
because this is going to be a longer video than usual
and it's going to probe in deep on what is about to happen
to yours truly, the prophet himself.
Thank you guys for joining the show.
So, David, this story has been told a lot of times.
Yeah, this is just, this is the last supper
and Easter story all wrapped up in one for the LDS trip.
It is. And you can't help but look back.
You know, we're 20 some odd episodes into this journey
and whatnot, and like, we typically end every biography
of Joseph Smith, every history book of early Mormonism,
it ends right here with the death of Joseph Smith.
But as you know, and as our listeners,
you know, viewers probably know that this is kind of the
end of just the beginning, right?
Exactly.
Because it's only just starting in the grand scheme of things.
And the things that happen just immediately after what should
be chapter, you know, the end, last chapter, blow my mind,
the stuff that's happened immediately afterwards
are fascinating.
Yeah.
So, the thing about Joseph Smith is that we have learned
about him from, we've learned about a secular history
of this individual, because this is the story of Carthage
is a story that Mormons, believing Mormons know by heart
and they, you know, missionaries teach and they reflect on it
in enzyme articles.
And it's a common story that's told in church.
But I love your quote about the context.
I love your quote, is that almost any Mormon can tell you
the story of Carthage jail without knowing anything,
knowing almost nothing about it.
Yeah, because that really is it.
There's so many more details to this.
Mormons aren't even aware that their prophet put an entire
state and arguably the whole country on the precipice of
civil war.
And that alone highlights this individual as just larger than
life.
There's more to him than just the human that is Joseph Smith.
There's so much more to this story.
So, as we know, the day of June 27th, 1844,
Governor Thomas Ford was down in this area trying to handle
things personally.
He had told Joseph that he was going to take him with him to
visit Nauvoo, but realized that if Thomas Ford brought the
prophet back to Nauvoo, that it would be impossible to bring
him back into Carthage and get him ready in Carthage.
You know what would happen on the way there or back.
Exactly.
Yeah, so, you know, Thomas Ford made the trip to Nauvoo
himself and then as he was returning to Carthage, they
intercepted the rider that told them that Joseph Smith had
died.
And that is, you know, what do you do in that situation?
Because suddenly, like, he doesn't, he wasn't expecting
this.
He had some thoughts that it might happen, but he wasn't
sure that this was going to happen and then just receiving
the confirmation.
What do you do in this situation?
I think the quote he said was, we were all struck dumb by the
news and he was aware that things could get really, really
bad now.
Yeah, this is what he said.
The intelligence seemed to strike everyone with a kind of
dumbness.
As to myself, it was perfectly astounding and I anticipated
the very worst consequences from it.
The Mormons had been represented to me as a lawless,
infatuated and fanatical people, not governed by the ordinary
motives which influenced the rest of mankind.
If so, most likely, an exterminating war would ensue and
the whole land would be covered with desolation.
And that's an incredible quote to think that that's what's
going through his mind.
And he's not wrong.
He's not wrong.
He's not wrong, right?
And like, he had put in various insurance levels to make it
so that Joseph wouldn't be assassinated, right?
Having the citizens of Carthage be his guards because Carthage
would be the first settlement the Mormons would burn if
anything bad happened.
Himself, knowing that he would be assassinated by the Mormons,
the governor would be assassinated if they learned that
this had happened.
So he had put in those levels of insurance and all of those
fail safes failed.
And here's this messenger telling him this information.
So let's rewind the clock a couple of hours.
What happened that night?
What happened that evening when Joseph and Hiram Smith died?
Yeah.
So we know that the two primary movers of the anti-Mormon
movement are Levi Williams and Thomas Sharp.
Thomas Sharp is the guy who's writing the Warsaw signal.
He saw the military parade and was like, what the hell?
Not good, not good.
So his buddy Levi Williams is a state sanctioned militia officer,
whereas Thomas Sharp is just a newspaper editor who really
hates the Mormons.
Well, they set out and head into Carthage because they are
aware that the profit is there with only a minimal amount of
guards and that Governor Ford is no longer there to babysit.
Governor Ford is in Nauvoo.
So they set out and at this time, Thomas Sharp gives a
speech to the soldiers trying to rile them up, get them more
excited to go murder the Mormons.
And here's what Thomas Sharp apparently said.
Friends and fellow citizens, the crisis has arrived when it
becomes our duty to rise as free men and assert our rights,
the laws insufficient for us.
The governor will not enforce it.
We must take it into our hands.
We know what wrongs we suffer and we are the best calculated
to redress them.
This is vigilante justice.
That's what this is.
And on somebody who's running for president of the United States,
I feel like I need to reiterate that.
Exactly, exactly.
And can we just put a pin in this for a second?
Is this in print?
Do we know he said this?
How disputed is it?
I know he's in dispute.
And especially, that sounds reasonable.
It's the last part where he says, all things are understood.
We must hasten the Carthage and murder the Smiths.
This will so enrage the Mormons that they will fall upon
and murder Tom Ford and then we rid of the damn little governor
and the Mormons, too.
To cheers.
To cheers.
Well, I'll bet you Machiavellian, you know,
Han Rini must ask Twitter.
Must ask Twitter, Link.
Yeah, I very much agree.
And that source is John Hay, somebody who was not a known
person, but was apparently part of, he claimed to be part of
the militia, claimed to not have any hand in it to just be
observing it.
And then he joined the Mormons and he got some property
like immediately after Carthage happened.
He joined the Mormons, got some property there.
And then he made this affidavit describing all of the
events and his affidavit is full with all sorts of things
that make it not very credible.
But we do tend to believe that the guy was an eyewitness
to at least some of the events.
What Thomas Ford, sorry, what Thomas Sharp actually said,
his is the only source that we have for it.
And it's a disputed source.
And to be fair, just from the headlines we know from Thomas
Sharp, you know, the first part seems very real to me.
Totally.
Yep.
It's the, it's the, the mustache twirling.
Let us murder, murder.
Well, and that's why it plays into the Mormon Martyrdom
complex, right?
That makes perfect sense for a Mormon to say this.
Yes.
Yes.
Exactly.
Well, and to add into that, our buddy Porter Rockwell,
Pistol Pack and Porter Rockwell, he gave an affidavit in
Utah during the Reformation era.
So, you know, about 12, 13 years after the events.
Yeah.
That he, when he was in Nauvoo, Thomas Ford was there
holding a meeting with a few people in Nauvoo,
a few of the leadership behind closed doors.
And Porter Rockwell had forgotten his hat in the room.
So, he went in back to retrieve the hat.
And at that time, he heard Thomas Ford say that the deed is
done basically, referring to the conspiracy that Thomas Ford
was just like, all right, I'm going to disappear and whatever
happens to Joseph.
Wink, wink, wink.
You know, get in there.
But once again, that's from Porter Rockwell, a childhood friend
of Joseph Smith's, definitely not an impartial observer,
and he made that affidavit, like I said, more than a decade
after the events happened.
Right.
And how convenient that his hat was lost just in time for
you.
That one bit of the boring news for the whole thing.
Yeah.
He forgot his hat.
Yeah.
That happens.
That's cool.
Yep.
So, regardless, there are a couple of other figures within
this afternoon that we need to understand.
And one of these figures is Frank Warrell or Franklin Warrell.
Now, Frank Warrell was the specific jail guard.
So, how it worked was basically they had like a platoon, a contingency
of like six to eight soldiers that were guarding the jail itself
at any given time.
And those were pulled from the ranks of the Carthage Grays that
were there in town.
And it was a couple of divisions of Carthage Grays that were
stationed in Carthage, garrisoned ready for defense or for an
offense or whatever.
So, you know, about 60 to 80 guys maybe.
Right.
Guys who all hate Joseph Smith as much as anybody else on the
planet.
Certainly, yeah.
But they also, you know, they're part of Governor Ford's insurance
policy.
Yeah.
So, Frank Warrell made an alliance with Levi Williams and
Thomas Sharp, these anti-Mormons who are marching to Carthage.
They established communication beforehand.
And Franklin Warrell as the officer who was guarding, who was
controlling the guard of the jail at the four o'clock changeover
that would be, you know, on patrol from four to midnight or four to
ten or whatever.
He was the guy.
And he was friends with Thomas Sharp and Levi Williams.
And they said, all right, well, we're going to rush you.
And we want you to load up your gun with blank cartridges so that
you have plausible deniability, right?
Obviously.
So that they can make it look like a defense that an armed mob
comes rushing into town.
Frank Warrell and his, you know, few guards around the jail, they
shoot at the mob.
But nothing happens.
It's all blank cartridges.
Right.
And we should say also as well, this mob is all made up of
Carthage people, too, who are easily recognizable to anybody in
Carthage.
So to get around that, they disguise themselves with like
soot and gunpowder and red mugs.
Blackface.
To look, let you, to blackface.
Yes, exactly.
Very, very common of vigilante mobs.
And funny, it's a, it's a tactic that the Mormons themselves
used the Mount Meadows massacre.
They did not just Mount Meadows all the time, actually.
Yeah.
Very frequently in Utah.
Yeah.
And the river rats as well, they disguise themselves because they
were recognizable, right?
So it's, it's a common tactic that if you're going to go do crime,
you just pay your face black and then, you know, nobody can
recognize you.
And if they do, then, you know, they keep their mouth shut.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So these, the, the, this alliance's communication was established
and at this time, General Deming, of course, was one of the few that
Thomas Ford had put in charge of the entire, the entire Carthage
Graze to take care of it.
And Governor Ford told him to flee in the, if menaced by a superior
force.
Yeah.
So at about 10 after 5pm, this superior force appears on the
horizon, marching into Navu, marching into Carthage.
I'm sorry.
And they come in from the road to Navu.
So the people who are in town aren't sure what this is.
This looks like it could be a Mormon mob.
Yeah.
And nobody knows what to expect.
So the citizens of Carthage that are out there that see this mob begin
descending on the jail, they start packing their bags.
They're not done.
They know that something is about to happen and whatever is about to
happen, they don't want to be in Carthage anymore because this is
bad news.
And as soon as everything's, by the end of the day, Carthage is
going to be a ghost town, a literal ghost town.
Yes.
Yep.
Only a few people there.
Yep.
Exactly.
Yeah.
So the force marches in and they fire three gunshots in the air,
which signaled to Frank Warrell and his guards that the assault had
begun.
And at that point, Frank Warrell, his guards, they, they get in military
ranks guarding the jailhouse.
And that's when the mob clashes against them.
And Frank Warrell and his boys, they fire their guns, but because of the,
the little arrangement, those guns were filled with blank cartridges.
And then they just kind of like, oh, come on, you get out of here.
You don't do it.
No, don't come in.
No, no, don't hurt him.
And I really hope that we have the ability to screen share here because I
want to show just some visualizations of what Carthage kind of looks like
here.
So here is the courtyard of the Carthage Shale, right?
And this is, this wall is, I believe, north facing.
And this is the direction that they would have come into, right?
So here's, this is an addition that was built on.
But when you walk through this door, this is where you go into the kitchen area.
And that's where the first area is that you, you know, enter the building.
And there are a few entrances into it.
So, yeah.
So they, they come into this door here and the, you know, the Frank,
Frank Warrell and his boys, it's like six, eight guys.
This is a force of 150 or 200 guys.
Even if their guns weren't filled with blank cartridges, it wasn't, they,
what, what could they do, right?
So the prisoners here, now let's review who the prisoners are.
We have Joseph Smith and Hiram Smith, Hiram being his older brother,
as well as patriarch of the church.
And then we have a good friend and counselor to Joseph Smith, John Taylor.
And John Taylor is somebody who would go on to be a leader in the Utah church.
And we'll discuss that a little bit in a few minutes.
And then we have Willard Richards, Dr. Willard Richards.
He was an herbal physician, as well as a scribe of Joseph Smith.
And I'm very much of the opinion that this guy was keeping Joseph Smith,
well, amped up for all of these because there were many sleepless nights for this guy.
And I, I am of the opinion that, that the doctor was keeping old Joe pretty
strung out to keep him firing and going during all of this.
And it seems a perfect place to add that Bryce has done an amazing job
on researching pharmacological issues in early Mormon history that are fascinating.
Not just here, but all from the very beginning.
Yeah, well, which really is kind of the only reason that I mentioned it,
that, that Joseph Smith always had an herbal physician very close to him.
And, you know, that's, that's not uncommon of, of many demagogues and tyrants
that are strung out on all sorts of things during the day
and then they take downers to sleep at night.
You know, I think Joseph Smith definitely fell into that camp.
So the, this, this jail cell, this whole jail building gets surrounded
and there's the prisoners understand that there's, this is, these are not their people.
These are not the Mormons here. That's in the actual jailhouse.
Let me find a proper picture of once they get inside, right?
So they get inside, they push through.
It's a bunch of guys pushing in through this building, this little tiny jail cell.
Now, I also want to note that at this time, right before they had,
right before they had left town, two guys had smuggled pistols in to Joseph Smith.
This pistol right here was given to Joseph by a guy named John S. Fulmer.
And he was, John S. Fulmer was one of the messengers, one of the friends that was in, in the town
and it was chased out of, of Carthage.
So he took this pistol, gave it to Joseph Smith.
Then another guy came along named Cyrus Wheelock and Cyrus Wheelock gave him this little pepper box pistol.
Now, this is a precursor to a revolver in that it has five or six revolving barrels here
that each have their own little nipple, explosive nipple, and then this, or cap,
and then this hammer right here drops on the nipple and all six of those barrels rotate.
So this is an Allen and Thurber pepper box pistol and I've held one of these things.
It's a delightful little guns.
And incidentally, both these guns exist in Mormon Museum, in the Mormon Museum.
Yep.
And they don't make any bones about, yeah, these are the guns that they had, you know, so.
You can see this in, yeah, in downtown Salt Lake City, just outside of Temple Square in the Church History Museum.
They have these in a little display case.
So when this pepper box pistol was handed to Joseph Smith, he handed this single shot to his brother Hiram.
Now, what these guys are going to do with these pistols?
I think that's probably up for dispute.
Who knows?
What good is a single shot pistol if you're going to be attacked by a mob?
That's for one useful shot, right?
That's to kill yourself.
A pepper box pistol, it may be effective in close quarters combat, you know, like in a hallway type of situation,
but you're not holding off an army with a pepper box pistol.
That's, it's just, these are just the things.
What was the purpose of having these guns?
I don't know.
I don't know what the logic behind it was, but both Joseph and Hiram had guns.
Yeah.
Should we get into the, that he also had wine and tobacco that night too?
He did, all right.
So Stephen Markham, he had sent Stephen Markham to go pick up wine and two papers of tobacco.
And Stephen Markham had gotten chased out of town before, before he was able to deliver the goods to him.
So Joseph asked the jailer, George Stiegel, like, hey, what happened to Stephen?
And he's like, that guy, he got the hell out of here.
They were chasing him out.
So Joe requested that the jailer actually bring them the supplies and gave him $2.50 for it.
And the jailer said, no, a buck 20 is enough.
It took his 13 pieces of silver for the wine.
Exactly.
So yeah, this is, this happened about an hour and a half, two hours before the mob began ascending, right?
So these guys are, you know, they've been smoking their tobacco and they've been, you know, imbibing, drinking a little bit.
And of course, we know that the mob themselves are probably, many of them are pretty lit as well.
Sure.
And these are all just fun facts that you should ask your Mormon missionary next time they show up your door.
Certainly. Yeah.
Joseph Smith was drunk when he was murdered.
Yes.
Yeah.
So as we continue on through the house, right?
So the mob gets in, they push in through this feigned defense.
They get past the areas in the house that are in the lower areas and then they begin pushing up.
They see that the prisoners are not down here in the jail cell.
They begin pushing up through the stairs.
And you can see the stairs here are pretty narrow.
I have another shot of the stairs, but they push in, they find that the jail cell here is empty.
That the prisoners are not in the actual jail cells, but that they are instead in the room next to it.
Yeah.
Now, this is the hallway.
And if I'm standing in this hallway, my shoulders are basically touching both sides.
Or if I, you know, move my arms out a little bit, my elbows are touching both sides.
But we have a, you know, a group of 150 guys trying to push up these stairs and into this tiny hallway.
And this tiny hallway, you can see it here.
Like this is the banister that goes around the stairs, right?
So they push in.
This is a window that leads outside.
Directly behind where I'm taking this picture from is the jail cells with all the hay and the shackles on the ground.
That's directly behind us.
Now, to the left, right here, this left, this is the doorway into the debtor's prison where the prisoners were staying, where they slept that night before.
So the men push up the stairs, right?
So here's the banister.
The stairs run this way.
They push up the stairs and they fire their weapons into the door of the jail cell, thinking that that's where the prisoners were.
But there was no reaction.
They pushed into the door.
They saw that the prisoners weren't there.
And then they instead turned over to this door, which is this room right here.
This is the debtor's prison on the second floor of Garthage jail.
And at this time, of course, like the prisoners knew they're dead.
Yeah, they're dead.
Yeah.
And Willa Richards even recounted what happened.
He, let me stop sharing.
Sorry about that.
He tells the Prophet that, you know, he looked out the window and that, you know, he doesn't know who those people are out there.
This is, this is, this is not good.
Yeah.
This is not good.
And it, you know, for what it's worth, it could have been the Nauvoo Legion.
You could think that they were, you know, this group is coming up on the Carthage Road.
Maybe, maybe, maybe, but.
Maybe.
No, it was not to be.
It was not.
No.
So in all of this, right?
So the, the jail itself is surrounded.
There is no escape.
There is, you hear clamoring all downstairs, gunshots outside the door.
This is, this, you're, you're backed into a corner.
You are, you're a cornered animal.
And there is no, no option.
There's, there's not a whole lot that you can do in this situation.
Now, I want to spend a little bit of time on some alternative theories near the end here,
because once we discuss kind of the sequence of events, we'll be able to piece together
some pictures of what, what happened in all of this and what people explore as alternative
theories, because I think that is a fascinating subject.
Regardless, the, the men push up the stairs and they realize that the prisoners are in the
deadest prison and they push against that door.
They try to gain entry into that room.
And at this point, Joseph Hiram, Tom Taylor, Willard Richards, they push, push their,
you know, weight against the door trying to hold it.
You know, the guys get in the door, they're all dead.
They know it.
Everybody knows it.
This, this mob is not here to have a court of inquiry, right?
They're not here to, to play patty cake.
They're here to murder people.
Yeah.
So they're pushing all their weight against the door.
John Taylor and Willard Richards, they grab their canes.
One of them grabbed Stephen Markham's cane and they, they grab these canes for self-defense.
They can use them as, you know, as blunt objects or whatever the case is going to be.
They're called rascal beaters.
Rascal beaters.
That's right.
Yep.
Good old rascal beaters.
At this point, Hiram and Joseph are pushing against the door.
Hiram begins to pull out his pistol, but he is pushed against the door.
And if you kind of envision this, how he was doing this, it was basically an arm and a shoulder
against the door and him kind of leaning down, looking down slightly.
And a ball is fired through the door.
Now, I don't think I took a picture of the hole because they have a recreated door that has a hole
at the, about the right spot in it.
But the latch on the door itself didn't work.
So it was just the physical force of these men pushing against each other with a small wooden plank dividing them.
So one ball fires through the door and it hits Hiram on the left side of his nose and enters into his skull
and probably comes out the back of his head or it embeds in his skull somewhere.
And at that point, Hiram just falls back.
He falls back from the door, right?
Because you're shot in the face, the energy from the ball going in and your body getting away from the danger, pushing yourself away.
He fell back from the door and just landed on the ground.
He's done.
Yeah.
He's done.
Yeah.
And it was claimed that he says, I'm shot.
I'm a dead man or whatever.
I'm a dead man.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Like, no.
It was gargling noises probably.
Yeah.
At best.
Yeah.
So he falls and Joseph sees his older brother fall down now with blood coming out of his head and realizes this place means business.
So at this point, Joe peels away to look at his brother or whatever and he sees Hiram is dead and he pulls the pepper box pistol out of his pocket.
And at this point, it's just John Taylor and Willard Richards who are holding the door closed against a force of, you know, 10 to 12 men that can fit in that little tiny space that are pushing against the door.
So they're beginning to be able to push in and they're sticking their gun barrels through the crack in the door and firing into the room just filling it with explosions and with smoke.
And John Taylor recounts this like as, you know, he, he talked about them belching their infernal death.
And, you know, he's very graphic because he's seeing all of, you know, these guns are sticking through the door right in front of his face as he's holding it shut and firing into the ground.
Right.
I mean, you remember these things.
These are your starkest memories.
Yeah.
The noise of this screaming mob, howling mob coming to kill you and the smoke, the gunpowder, everything about it must have just been a nightmare.
And it's a hot July afternoon too.
You know, on the banks of the Mississippi, it's hot, muggy.
Everybody's uncomfortable.
Everybody's cranky.
A lot of people are drunk.
It's, it's not a good situation.
It's all, it's bad.
It's really bad.
Right.
So Joe uses the those men pushing their guns through the barrel.
He uses that same crack with his left hand.
He sticks the pepperbox pistol outside of the door and fires it in and pepperbox pistols.
They're repeat fire, which, you know, cartridge guns are not yet invented.
Cartridge rounds don't come until about the 1850s, late, late 40s, early 50s.
It was civil war before the cartridge guns actually were implemented in wartime.
These are all muzzleloader guns and very few guns have repeating actions, but pepperbox pistols do.
So he just click, click, click, click, click, fires as many as he can.
And it's reported that at least three of those barrels discharged and indeed did hit people.
Didn't kill him, but he did hit three.
Yeah.
Now it's disputed because John Taylor claimed that two of the men died and one of them was wounded from it.
But the other sources, there are no contemporary sources that say that indeed these men died.
But they were, they were critically injured according to the court records that happened, you know, a year after this.
I kind of loved the description of the three men who took bullets from, from Joseph Smith.
Oh, yeah.
Give us the quote.
He shot an Irishman named Wills, who was in the affair from his congenital love of a brawl.
Oh, that harp.
You know those harps and their dunny brooks.
Gallagher, a Southerner from Mrs. and Bottom in the Face.
Voorhees, a half grown hobbledy-hoi from Bear Creek.
Hobbledy-hoi.
Hobbledy-hoi, which as we all know is a clumsy or awkward youth.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
Oh, and of course, he said, and another gentleman whose name I will not mention as he's prepared to prove an alibi.
And besides that, he stands six foot two in his moccasins.
In his moccasins?
Well, that says it in his moccasins too, right?
Yeah.
And this is a hearing, this is part of the hearing, right?
This is the court hearing where this guy is telling the details of these people that were shot by Joseph Smith.
But like we said, there's no evidence that Joseph actually killed anybody in all of this.
Mostly because these pepper box pistols, unless you load them really hot, they're not that powerful.
It's a relatively small caliber round.
And it's, you know, it's a round bullet and may pass through or may not be able to expend all of its energy.
It's not a hollow point, right?
It's not modern technology.
It's not modern ballistics.
Guns are just a lot less deadly back then.
Not rifled.
You didn't even know where the bullet was going to go, you know, half the time.
Yeah, for sure.
And also to be clear, like he's just sticking it out a door and firing into a mob of people, right?
He's going to hit people.
Right.
You're going to hit people.
Fish in a barrel.
Yeah.
Yeah.
For sure.
So he fires those rounds and what happens is the mob recoil from this, right?
Because they're the ones firing the guns and suddenly there's a gun being fired back at them.
They have to take a step back, take stock of the situation and likely change out guns, right?
So this is how firing lines would work is either you have the firing lines and everybody man's
their own guns where you fire and then you take the 20 to 40 seconds to reload and then
you fire the next salvo and then you reload next salvo or you have gunmen that sit behind
and they reload the guns for the actual marksman.
So you fire all the guns through the door, you have to bring those guns back, push them
back down the line and get to the front of the line guns that are loaded because it takes
too long to, you know, everything we're describing is happening in 20 seconds.
Yeah.
Yeah.
They don't have time to reload.
Right.
Right.
Yeah.
If you saw Last of the Mohicans, they did a pretty decent job of showing the awkwardness
of dealing with these kind of rifles.
Okay.
I haven't seen it, but, you know, it's dances with wolves did it as well.
One shot.
Okay.
One shot.
Or take another, you know, maybe a good marksman could get three shots in a minute.
Maybe, you know.
Yeah.
And that's that was truly expert marksman.
Yeah.
Yeah.
With reloading their own guns.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
So like those are some of the limitations of this.
All right.
And it seems as if most of them were coming in with rifles and that repeating pistols weren't
much in weren't utilized much by the mob.
They seem to be using rifles and all of this.
Yeah.
And there could be various reasons for that.
Mostly that they're state sanctioned militia.
Oh, well, the other thing I was thinking is those pistols had for 1844, that's pretty
high tech shit.
That's for sure.
It must have been really expensive too.
Yeah.
That the Allen and Thurber, specifically the Allen and Thurber pistol that Joseph Smith
had the patents on that pepper box pistol was 1837.
Right.
So this is cutting edge technology.
These pepper box pistols.
Yeah.
For sure.
Um, so the, the mob recoils for a second, they realized that the prisoners were armed.
They were not expecting that.
Now they have to decide how armed are they?
Because if they push further into the room and they have more pistols, that means more
of the mob are going to get hit.
And they, they don't want that.
They only want to attack vigilante mobs.
They only want to attack when it's superior forces, when they know they're going to win
the fight.
Yeah.
But now there's an element of uncertainty of like, we just got shot at how, how many
guns, how many of them have guns?
How many guns are in there?
Um, so that causes a momentary pause.
And it was in this momentary pause that Joseph Smith and John Taylor decided to act because
there's still pressure from the door.
Joseph Smith goes back to pushing against the door.
Um, and the men, you know, the, they pull their guns back or whatever the case is Joseph
and John Taylor realized that this is their moment to try and break for it.
So John Taylor and Joseph Smith, uh, turn around and begin to run for the window.
Now, let me show this window here and just the general layout of the apartment.
Right.
So, um, we have here, uh, gotta share the screen once again.
Um, so this is once again that doorway, right?
So the, the upstairs, right?
So here's the banister.
Here's the stairs right down here.
Here's the door that goes into the debtor's apartment where this gunfight is happening.
This is that very door that they're pushing against.
Um, once you're in this room, you walk in, it's a pretty small room.
Here's a window.
This window goes to the south and then, um, uh, this window, uh, though, of course the
window that I'm obstructing here that I'm in front of.
Yeah.
This is the window that leads out to the courtyard that we saw, uh, earlier.
Yeah.
That window that I'm standing in front of is this window right up here.
This is the, I believe the east side of the jail here over here is the north side where
they pushed in.
Right.
So, um, Joseph and John Taylor both make a break for this window.
They think that if they can get out the window, then maybe they have a chance to survive.
And what that means is Willard Richards was the only person left with his rascal beater
trying to hold the door and to hit the barrels of the rifles with the rascal beater as they're
pushing through the door.
Uh, Willard Richards is a big, big dude, but he's not a dozen dudes, big dude.
Right.
He can't match them.
So he just gets pushed back and as they push the door open, they pin him against the wall
between the door and the wall.
Yeah.
And he's, I mean, when we were talking, we were talking over 300 pounds if I'm not mistaken.
Yeah.
Yes.
Very much so.
You know, size.
Yeah.
For sure.
Uh, you know, he's a relatively big guy as well.
He's not just, you know, rotund, but he's also a fairly large build.
Yeah.
Um, so he gets it, uh, you know, he gets pressed all the way against the wall as the mob is
pushing into the door.
Yeah.
And as this is happening, right, as he's getting pushed against that wall and pinned, Joseph
and John Taylor are running away from the door, away from the mob towards that window
that I was pointing out earlier and they get shot.
A lot.
They get shot hard because when they look out the window, what they don't see is a free
and clear way to escape.
They see a hundred other rifles pointed at them.
Yeah.
That's right.
Pointed at them from down below.
So John Taylor a little faster than Joe or maybe Joe was like looking back at Hyrum.
I'm not sure.
Uh, John Taylor is the first to get to the window.
Now as John Taylor is stepping, stepping, stepping his, the first bullet he takes hits
him in the leg and it breaks his leg.
So he basically immediately collapses and he falls against the window sill and breaks
his pocket watch, the pocket watch that's, you know, in his breast pocket.
He lands against the, the window sill and breaks the pocket watch, which marks the time
the church history library has that very pocket watch.
It has marked to the time that the time stopped was when this assassination happened.
And I think it's in 21 seconds.
I have 16, 21.
Thank you.
Good numbers.
So he gets shot in the leg and that's when he collapses and he sees out at the window
as he's leaning against the window sill, he looks down under the courtyard and like
said, David, there's a hundred guys out there, all of them pointing their guns at that window.
So reflexes.
He calls it a John Taylor calls it, you know, a Supreme force or an angel that saved him.
I call their reflexes.
He pushes himself away from the, the window sill and he, you know, turns and sees that
there's the huge mob pushing into the door.
There's no way out.
There's nothing you can do.
Yeah.
So he thinks quick and rolls under the bed and as he is rolling under the bed, he takes,
I think, two more shots or three more shots.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I think eventually three more.
Yeah.
Let's see.
Second one shot him in the left knee, which traveled up his thigh and embedded near his groin.
That's got a third bullet entered his left arm near the elbow, ripped through muscle
and tendon all the way up his arm, crushed through his wrist joint and came to a halt
a little above the upper joint of my little finger.
Right.
Well, and that shows you what he was doing, right?
So he was laying down with the mob towards his feet and he was covering his head, right?
So he gets shot in the knee and it travels up and lodges in his groin, gets shot in the
elbow and it travels up his arm, lodges in the wrist or in the hand.
So that's kind of his configuration.
He's guarding himself and then he begins to tuck and roll.
And that's when he gets shot in the leg and it rips off a chunk of his hip.
The size of his fist, apparently.
Yeah, the size of his fist.
And he begins bleeding profusely from this.
And, you know, this obvious, I mean, this phrase, you know, blood and gibbs all over
the floor, this turns into a very bloody mess pretty quickly.
Yeah.
So he rolls under the bed.
He's waiting for his death because, you know, he's shot four times already.
It's only a matter of time before they drag him out from under the bed and just execute
him, right?
He thinks he's dead.
Willard Richards, obviously pinned against the door, sees John Taylor go down at the
same time that Joseph Smith catches a couple of balls in the back.
Yeah.
And at this time, Joseph makes the record isn't clear.
What happens?
Actually, when I say the record isn't clear, the accounts dispute each other a little bit.
And this makes for a really interesting, a couple of possible scenarios for what happened
to Joseph in this, because convention says that he was shot.
You know, the martyrdom version says that he felt that he could save the lives of his
friends if he dove out the window, which I think is hogwash.
Now, you're not looking to preserve your friends' life in that you're saving your own life in
this.
Let me save you running away to safety.
Yeah, right.
He bravely fled.
Yeah, but another account, another couple of accounts.
And this is this is fleshed out in the court hearing after all of this says that he basically
sat on the windowsill and tried to bargain with the mob for a minute.
Now, to be clear, the mob from the doorway, the hallway, aren't the only ones shooting.
There are men also shooting from outside into the car into the jail cell window, right?
So if we look at the the jail itself here, right, we see this broad side of this building.
This is the window that John Taylor, he hit on the windowsill and then pushed himself
back same window that Joseph Smith has hit approaching himself.
Yeah, this whole area is filled surrounded by men that are just shooting like crazy.
They're trying to shoot into this.
And I believe the coroner accounted 35 bullets that were embedded into the brick work as
well as the roof inside of the room in the ceiling above this window, because the guns
obviously were fired from a downward angle up into that window.
Yeah.
So that in all of this, right, like those men are also shooting into the window.
There are men who are trying to get further away from the jail so that they could get
a more level shot into the window, maybe use a local hill or nearby hill to get shots.
But the accuracy of these guns is horrible, of course, so it's not very effective.
Insert grasty old joke here.
Yeah, that's right.
So, so within all of this, right, it's disputed whether or not Joseph dove immediately when
he got to the window, or if he sat there for a second and was shot and then fell out, or
if he sat there for a few minutes and tried to bargain with the men that were out in the
courtyard, which would have been Levi Williams and Thomas Sharp and Frank Warrell and, you
know, the leaders of these anti Mormons, right?
And to be fair, all of these scenarios are perfectly plausible knowing what we know.
Perfectly.
Yeah.
And one of my favorite accounts says that he ran up to the window and he gave the Masonic
cry for help, which is elevating both hands above his head and saying, oh, God, is there
no help for the widow's son?
Yeah, which is fascinating to me that, but go on with that because the fact that that
was so powerful that that's what he thought might save his life.
Yeah.
And if that is indeed the case, then it would be expected that the Masons within the mob
would have stopped firing because this is a member of the fraternity and you are murdering
a member of the fraternity.
That's a big, big no-no in Masonry.
And you said something very interesting in your podcast that for the non-Masons, it was,
hey, you're about to kill a master Mason.
Do you really want to do that?
It's like...
That's right.
I don't think we have any idea how powerfully, if not the actual power, the thought of powerful
Freemasonry was in the early 19th century.
It just doesn't...
Yeah.
We don't really have a sense of that.
We haven't spent much time on it here because it doesn't hold a lot of explanatory power
for a lot of what we discussed, but it does, once we examine how powerful Nauvoo was getting
and how powerful the Nauvoo Lodge itself was getting, how many Masons were being recruited
into the Mormon Nauvoo Lodge, was beginning to outnumber the number of Masons in the entire
state of Illinois, which is making Masons mad because it's defiling the sacred rites.
It's ascending people who are not prepared to ascend, and it's diluting the power of
the Masons that remain there in the state that are legitimately ascended.
There's a lot of problems that Masons are seeing with Joseph Smith being so power hungry,
but then there's also the fear, I say, reverence that society held, or maybe not reverence the...
They knew they were forced to be reckoned with?
The notoriety that Masons were going to have for non-Masons, because it was seen as a shadow
political force, it was something that...
Deep state, yeah, exactly.
It's the deep state, and that existed long before David Eich and our modern era, those
concepts have always existed.
They actually had political parties that were nothing, but their only platform was
Angie Masonic Party, that's how it was.
Even Joe's ghost writer, Willie Mines Phelps, got his start as an editor of an anti-Masonic
paper in New York, so anti-Masonry was its own political movement to try and resist the
power that people perceived that free Masonry had in politics.
That occurs to me too, it's fascinating that even in the Mormon community, there were Masons
and anti-Masons.
There was, certainly, and at different times in his life, Joseph Smith has been painted
as Masonic as well as anti-Masonic.
There's definitely some confounding features in all of this.
Joseph Smith, as the most powerful man in the state, I would argue far more powerful
than Governor Ford, he just had yet to realize his potential power to utilize it, right?
But the most powerful man in the state of Illinois, running for president of the United
States, gives the Masonic cry for help, the Masons are going to stop shooting, and that
provides the explanatory power that I need to understand the timeline of how this worked,
because he gives the cry for help and then he remains in the windowsill for the span
of maybe one to two minutes.
Now, everything that's happening is happening in the span of five seconds, 10 seconds.
We've taken 20 minutes to describe something that's going on in 30 seconds, right?
So to be stuck there in that windowsill, petitioning your fellow Masons to not shoot
you with two bullets already in you and internal bleeding and trying to plead for your own
life in this situation, eventually a man shouts out from the crowd to shoot the rat anyway.
And it's at that point that Joseph probably takes another shot from inside or maybe from
outside.
He falls out of the window and the best way that I can understand it from his injuries
is he falls out of the window and lands shoulder first and then cracks his head on the ground
below.
This is dirt, right?
So basically a two-story head first fall onto hard earth, yeah.
And it seems that he survived the fall, because at that moment, somebody from the mob, the
disputed account that we talked about earlier, names the person and it's impossible that
it is that person, because it harkens all the way back to the Missouri Mormon War and
it's impossible that that person was there, regardless.
But somebody grabs the nearly dead Joseph Smith, who's lost a lot of blood, has multiple
bullets in him.
They drag him, let me show the screen what this looks like and why this is such an infamous
courtyard.
He falls out of the window, lands right here on the ground below.
They drag him up against this well right here and they execute him with shots not to the
head or to the chest, but to center mass to the stomach.
It's a gut shot, which is a really horrible way to execute somebody.
It's a painful way to execute somebody.
And it's like, he may not die today, he may not die tomorrow, but he's a dead man.
He's gonna die.
He's gonna die.
And Joseph Smith died right there in that courtyard after being gunned down.
As best, I could tell, I think it's five shots that he took, could be four, could be six.
It's kind of hard to tell.
John Taylor had at least four shots in him, Hiram Smith in all of this.
One shot.
Boom.
One shot, which is really interesting, so it's the one shot that hit the underneath
his nose and embedded somewhere in his head, maybe hit his brainstem, I don't know.
But afterwards, the mob came back up to examine the other members, the other prisoners.
Because when Joseph Smith goes out the window, the entire mob funnels out and they go surround
the prophet and then they execute him.
So for a very short period of time, the upstairs debtor's prison that all this action happened
was empty except for Hiram Smith dead, John Taylor bleeding out, and Willard Richards,
who had been pushed behind the door, did catch a bullet to the ear.
It did skim his ear.
That's true.
But if there was an angel protecting anybody that night, it was Willard Richards who came
out from behind that door.
He didn't cross behind and he's basically intact and fine, except the grazing wound.
So Richards thinks that John Taylor's dead.
He sees Hiram is very dead.
He hears Joseph outside fall, hit the ground, and then hears more gunshots, suspects Joseph
is dead as well.
Willard Richards begins to run out the door to go to try and either slink out a window
where the mob isn't because their attention is all on the front courtyard.
They're no longer spending any, nobody is paying any attention to what's on the other
side of the building.
He can slink out a window, he might be able to get out of town, right?
Now I want to also mention here, the Carthage Grays catch a lot of flak for being the guards
on duty at that time, right?
And it was a very small division of Carthage Grays that were actually stationed in Carthage
at this time, and they were stationed about a quarter of a mile away, right?
So the mob descends into Carthage.
They make the attack on the jail, and the attack is over by the time that the Carthage
Grays are able to cover the distance to get to the jail.
So the Carthage Grays weren't involved in this except for Frank Worrell, who loaded
his guns with blank cartridges.
Yeah, and it goes to show how much time, I mean, two minutes tops, you know, three minutes,
boom.
And then it's, yeah, it's over just that fast.
And yeah, and the Carthage Grays, they get to the jail, and Joe's already dead, the mob
is already beginning to disperse in all directions, all, all directions, everywhere, just can get
out.
The deed was done.
They were trying to get away before the marmots caught wind and came in and burned the town
to the ground, right?
And you know, when this is going on, when the gunshots are going off, all of the citizens
realize something is going on at the jail, they start packing faster.
They start heading to Warsaw to get to Warsaw, maybe even get across the river, head down
to Quincy, head over to Iowa, head over to Missouri, whatever, they have to get the hell
out of Carthage.
Right.
Because the marmots will be coming back with a vengeance and they will burn that place
to the ground and salt the ground on which Carthage used to stand.
Old Testament style.
Yeah.
Yes.
It's very, very poetic.
And there is nothing implausible about that scenario either.
No, not at all, right?
So in all of this, right?
So Willard Richards sees the situation.
He attempts to escape and he hears John Taylor call from under the bed, wait, take me with
you.
You know, as he's probably choking up blood, who knows, right?
Like John Taylor got riddled with bullets.
Yeah.
He's a mess.
So Willard Richards realizes, I can't get John Taylor out of this room and out of the
jail without somebody noticing.
I don't know what to do.
So what John, what Willard Richards did was drag John Taylor from the debtor's prison
into the jail cells.
And, you know, the jail cells themselves don't look to be that comfortable regardless of
who you are.
Like, you know, hard wooden floors and shackles that they really kind of suck no matter who
you are.
When you're somebody with bullets in you, your life threatened, Willard Richards drags
John Taylor into one of these cells and takes an old straw mattress and covers him up.
Yeah.
And yeah.
And John Taylor also puts salt, put salt, put straw into his wounds to help staunch it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
To help the blood coagulate, right?
He's a doctor, right?
So, you know, John Taylor remembers this as the most excruciating pain of his entire
life.
I can well believe it too.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Absolutely.
He took a flesh the size of his fist, misting from his hip, right?
The guy walked with a limp for the rest of his life from this gunfight.
And meanwhile, both him and Richards are sure that these guys are just going to come up
and finish the job and kill them dead in minutes, in moments, you know.
Which isn't unreasonable because the mob did come back up the stairs and they made sure
the job was done.
They couldn't find, maybe they were too hasty in their looking or whatever the case was,
but they couldn't find the two other people, Willard Richards and John Taylor, but they
did find basically the corpse of Hiram Smith and they made sure that it was a corpse by
shooting him center mass multiple more times.
And we think that he was dead by that time because there aren't any blood marks around
those bullet holes.
He had probably pretty much bled out by that time from his head wound.
Yeah.
Also, notably as well, while he was, you know, after he had been shot in the head and fallen
back, he did take a couple of shots that grazed his chest and embedded into the bottom
of his jaw.
He was probably dead or nearly dead when these shots hit him, but one also embedded into
his hip and stuff, but these, these were not fatal shots because the fatal shot had already
been done.
Yeah.
And maybe he was a lucky one after all.
Yeah.
Yeah.
To go so quick for sure.
I would prefer that death over John Taylor or Joseph Smith for sure, every time.
Uh, so now becomes a few big questions.
What is to be done?
What do we do to keep this situation from being the powder keg igniting?
How does Governor Ford handle this situation?
How do the Mormon leadership handle this situation?
How does the news get broken to the Mormons that Joseph and Hiram are dead because Thomas
Ford intercepted the messengers who were headed to Nauvoo to tell the Mormons at,
you know, six, six o'clock in the night, six thirty at night as they were headed back
into Carthage to check up on Joseph Smith.
Yeah.
They received the message, the messengers that the mission's over, right?
So what, like what, what do you do in this situation?
Um, I, I want to, uh, let me think here.
Um, because I'm, I want to deal with some conspiracy as well, because a lot of people
do say that, oh, Willard Richards, he wasn't even hurt in all of this.
Right.
Uh, he must have been working with Brigham Young to assassinate Joseph Smith, which
is ridiculous on so many levels to think.
Sure, it is.
Uh, and there are also a lot of people who believe it.
Um, the way that I go about trying to, you know, my phrase is skepticized everything.
The way that I try and skepticize that is Brigham Young was in Boston holding public
meetings at this time.
For him to have orchestrated this, he would have had to orchestrate, uh, the novel exposer,
uh, the city's response to the novel exposer, uh, Governor Ford going out there and responding
to the riot that, uh, ensued after that, he'd have to orchestrate all of the, the machinations
of Levi Williams and, uh, Thomas Sharp.
He would have had to orchestrate so many things that are just so far outside the boundary.
Exactly.
And he'd have to do it before telegraph.
So he would have to do it by sending out ravens to all his minions to make this all happen.
Yeah.
I mean, you can choose to believe that if you want.
Yeah.
Uh, uh, but there also is the claim that, uh, John Taylor, when he was nearly dead, uh,
broker to deal with Willa Richards, that if John Taylor survives this, then he will be
made profit after Brigham Young.
Uh, once again, you know, like Dr. Willa Richards was a doctor and he was somebody who was there
on hand to immediately attend to John Taylor's wounds, uh, and probably had Dr. Richards
not been there or had a functioning knowledge of the human anatomy, John Taylor would have
died.
Yeah.
Uh, so he saved John Taylor's life in all of this.
Uh, and then, then there's like, uh, the mysteries about, you know, Willa Richards death.
Did he happen upon something that Brigham Young didn't like in 1856 and then he wanted
to get rid of it or was, you know, Willa Richards threatening to go public with the whole conspiracy
and Carthage.
Uh, and, you know, I don't, I don't lend a whole lot of credence to those things.
What do you think of the possibility that on the other side, the anti Mormons did this
to deliberately get the governor killed in Navu?
That wouldn't surprise me at all, actually.
Um, I, I also don't find it very credible that Thomas Ford wanted this to happen.
I think that Ford wanted the Joseph Smith problem to be dealt with.
He didn't understand, you know, know what that dealing, he wanted it to not be a problem
anymore.
Um, and that his life would be a lot easier if Joseph Smith were dead, but that would
inevitably make his life so much harder because then his state would be in civil war.
So he didn't want Joseph Smith to be murdered.
He wanted Joseph to not be a problem anymore, which is why he was vigorously pursuing this
through the legal system.
So that he could be put on trial for treason and hung like, you know, like he should have
been like he should have been a firing squad.
Yes.
He should have faced a court martial, right?
He's a state sanctioned militia officer.
He incited a rebellion, a mob that squash free speech and then declared martial law in
his city and arrested anybody who entered or exited, right?
Like he, he was a tyrant.
He was absolutely a tyrant.
He should have faced a court martial for treason and been assassinated and been shot.
And what, and then it's fascinating what would happen to the church then then their whole
story would be his martyrdom at the firing squad and, right.
What more, you know, Jesus symbolism do you need, right?
Exactly.
You know, only, only would have been more martyrdom ish if they would have actually crucified
him.
And yeah, absolutely.
It's funny.
We didn't bring up the fact that all the Mormon folklore that surrounds this night and like
the kid who tried to decapitate Joseph Smith with a blue knife and was chased off by a
beam of light or something like that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And then lightning striking and scaring off the mob as they were trying to take his head
off.
And there's a ton of Mormon folklore and a lot of it comes from just that one disputed
account, right?
That one that we talked about earlier.
Yeah.
And hearing the voice of God booming from the clouds and, you know, there's, there's
a ton of folklore around this because it's, it's a tragic and traumatic event for the
more.
Sure.
Sure.
Yeah.
And your, your mind is going to come up with all sorts of ways to view this within the
larger picture of God's plan for his chosen people.
Yeah.
Because that's what religions do, especially apocalyptic religions.
But anytime you get a religion that people are so invested in because they literally
died for it, they suffered for it.
Generations of them up by now have suffered for it.
Yeah.
You just don't turn that off by, you know, a snappy argument or, you know, your profit
losing.
Yeah.
Well, and a very intelligent author once told me that persecution is like fertilizer,
right?
And every religion needs a little bit of it just to, to, you know, to keep it healthy.
Yeah.
And so within all this, right, like the, the situation was so perfectly calculated for
Joseph to be established as a martyred prophet.
Yeah.
Let me just say, had civil war broken out, true actual civil war between the Mormons
and the state of Illinois, I think Mormonism would be much less of a thing today.
Yeah.
Because all things considered, the Mormons may have been chased out of the state, but
they got off scot-free.
Absolutely.
Absolutely.
In all of this, right?
A lot of things could have been done differently that may have increased the long-term influence
that Mormonism had on American and world history.
None of those steps were taken.
Right.
Right.
And is it this close to getting exterminated?
Very much so.
They did get chased out of, well, out of Nauvoo at least, right?
Like the battle of Nauvoo happened and this is during the schism crisis.
And that's what incited Brigham Young to take everybody out to Nebraska to winter quarters
and begin their journey across the plains.
So like there were things that happened that pushed the Mormons away from this location
and caused the RLES Church to eventually headquarter in Lamoni, Iowa.
And all the other splinter groups as well.
In fact, I just want to put a plug in for our next episode, the things that happened
to the Mormon Church during the secession crisis blow my mind.
It's one of my favorite.
It's crazy.
It's crazy.
It's so crazy what's happened now that the head had been cut off.
Who's going to take up the mantle now?
Yeah.
That's next time around.
So Joseph Smith rises from the dead in a few days, right?
Yeah.
Right.
Yeah.
They bury him in the Nauvoo house and he moves a stone out of the way.
Yeah.
It's really cool.
Emma finds him in those folder clothes.
He's hiding in front of him.
He comes out of the web.
The little...
Dude, this is unbelievably interesting.
And there's some of the little rabbit holes you can dig into.
I can tell in this discussion.
So many.
Yeah.
We resisted as best we could.
Yeah.
Part of me.
Like I can't wait to find it.
And you know, you think like the death of Joseph Smith is going to be like it.
And you're like, oh, I finally, finally got my orgasm.
Climaxed.
And then you find out you're like, what is Nauvoo about to do?
What is about to happen?
Where were the other...
Where's the other guys at?
Where are these other prophets or these people that become prophets?
Of course.
Like where are they at in the picture?
You know, what's going on?
What happens to them?
What is documented?
How they react when they find out their prophet has died?
Like all of that good stuff.
That's good.
I mean, that's some good material.
So are we going into that in the next episode?
Next episode.
Yeah.
There's a few more threads to just pick up to round out this episode, right?
Because like the states on the precipice of civil war, right?
And the supreme leader of the aggressive party was just murdered.
Oh my.
All right.
I'm backing out.
Finish the threads.
A gracious host today.
Yeah.
So in all of this, right?
Governor Ford had just given his speech to the Mormons that don't interfere.
If you interfere, it's going to be seen as aggression.
You're going to be in defiance of the state.
He had given them very stern warnings.
And we will burn you to the ground.
Yeah.
Your city will be burned to the ground.
And he pitied the women and children that were caught up in this delusion as well because
they would suffer for this, right?
That's what had happened in Missouri to the Mormons.
They aggressively attacked the state.
The state said, no, we're not having that.
You're getting out of our state.
And a lot of people suffered and died for that hundreds.
And, you know, thousands suffered enormously for that.
Yeah.
On both sides.
On both sides.
Certainly.
So in all of this, right?
The state is still on the precipice of civil war.
Joseph and Hiram are dead.
The owner of the hotel is, it's the Hamilton Hotel in Carthage.
He is not, he is a citizen of Carthage, but he is not an anti-Mormon.
He's somebody who would be seen probably as Jack Mormon.
But, you know, Mormons are a lot of his patrons.
So he has to, you know, keep, keep everybody kind of happy.
Especially then.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And there's so many details that happen around Hamilton's hotel here that we just didn't
discuss because those are just other rabbit trails.
You got to check out my road to Carthage series to hear all of how all of that happened.
But so this Hamilton, I can't remember his name.
Anyway, Hamilton, it's, it's, I've lost it.
What are you, what are you?
So Hamilton is the owner of this.
Artois.
Artois.
Artois.
I was going to say Arthur, but I knew that wasn't right.
All right.
Artois Hamilton.
Not weird and Victorian enough yet.
That's right.
This guy was ahead of his time.
So Artois Hamilton, he realizes the whole city is empty.
He's not sure what's going on, but he's going to guard his in.
He isn't sure when to expect Governor Fortback.
He's not sure when to expect the other militia leaders.
He doesn't know when, if Mormon militia is going to come in and burn his city to the
ground, he doesn't know what's going on.
But what he does see is Willa Richards carrying a nearly dead John Taylor to his hotel away
from where this mob was dispersing like cockroaches, hot light.
Back to the hospitality industry as a whole.
You got to admit.
Yeah.
Good job, Artois.
Good job.
So he, he brings in John Taylor and Willard Richards and starts immediately tending to
John Taylor's wounds.
Him and Dr. Richard's work to get the bleeding stopped, to get Taylor to remain conscious.
Yeah.
If I remember correctly, Taylor resisted anybody else approaching him at first.
And they sort of had to, to the women who attended him and Hamilton had to like, no,
no, you're fine.
You're we're not here to kill you.
I don't remember reading that specifically, but it wouldn't surprise me.
Yeah, certainly.
Yeah.
But in all of this, right?
John Taylor knows or sorry, Willard Richards knows that if the Mormons, when they hear
this, the, the, the novel Legion is coming.
And then everybody's life is on the line.
So Willard Richards immediately establishes communication.
And at this time as well, Joe's younger brother, Samuel Smith rides into town, rides into
Carthage to see what is going on.
Maybe he caught intel or heard of somebody whispering of a conspiracy.
Who knows?
But Samuel Smith was traveling with somebody else from Nauvoo to Carthage, maybe to even
just bring to send and receive letters from the prisoners, right?
Right.
And a fun fact about Samuel Smith at this time, he is probably the most likely candidate.
He's not the prime heir, but he's the most likely candidate to become the new head of
the church.
Right.
Because this is a patrilineal church.
We can get into that later.
We can get into that later.
Yeah.
It is important though, because the only other remaining alive brother other than Samuel is
William Smith, who was a divisive figure.
You know, I give a bunch of these figures nicknames on my podcast.
I call him Crazy Willy because he just, he was, he, this guy, he and Joe so forgetting
and fights all the time and like knocking the hell out of each other.
This guy owned brothels and bars and his own like editorial paper that he made.
This guy actually attacked Thomas Sharp all the time by calling him Tom Ass Sharp in his
own articles.
Right.
Like he's just, he's just wily.
He's unpredictable.
Nobody really likes him that much, but everybody likes Samuel.
Samuel is the next heir of the church, the next heir apparent.
So Samuel comes riding into town and sees that the town is basically a ghost town now.
He gets to the, the in and he sees that John Taylor is laying there almost, almost dead
bleeding out like crazy.
And then he sees in the same room the bodies of his older brothers, Joseph and Hyrum.
And it's at this time that Willard Richards pens a letter to the church and tells everybody
stand down, stand down.
Don't do anything stupid.
Let me see if I can find the exact language he used.
I have it.
I have it.
If you don't mind.
You have it?
Yeah.
That's sparse.
It's Joseph and Hyrum are dead.
Taylor wounded, not very badly.
I am well.
Our guard was forced as we believe by a band of Missourians from one to 200.
The job was done in an instant and the party fled towards Nauvoo instantly.
This is as I believe it.
The citizens here are afraid of the Mormons attacking them.
I promised them no.
W. Richards.
Note the citizens promises protection.
Alarm guns have been fired.
John Taylor also signs it.
Yeah.
And getting John Taylor to sign it as well is super important in this because if he says
John Taylor as well or John Taylor is injured, not badly, you know, you're saying that if
you got John Taylor's signature on that letter as well, that just helps people to realize,
oh, so he's conscious.
He's fine.
He's okay, right?
He's gonna be fine.
He'll be crippled for the rest of his life and he's in incredible pain.
Yeah.
Yeah.
But no, but he's fine.
He's doing great now.
Right.
John Taylor travels back to Nauvoo.
I think with Samuel Smith.
Well, actually, I've got it.
It's kind of fascinating.
It was handed to the coroner of the town who gave it to his brothers who were afraid of
Nauvoo because they're afraid the Mormons would kill anybody who delivered that.
That's right.
That's what it was.
Yes.
That's right.
They took it to another guy who lived a few miles north of Carthage who agreed to carry
it with the help of somebody.
Other guy who knew the roads and could avoid the troops, be they Mormons or Mabacrats.
Yeah.
That's what happened.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Samuel stayed.
Yeah.
Samuel stayed the night there in Carthage, prepared the bodies and helps John Taylor and
they brought the bodies to Nauvoo the next day, actually.
Yeah.
Nothing simple ever happens in this story.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
for arrest. He wants people to stand justice or to have justice for what happened.
So he's keeping his head on straight this whole time and he realizes that his state is about to go to war.
I don't envy his position in any of this interaction at all, at all.
And he's worried obviously that the troops are gonna come in that bad things are gonna happen and also that
he's not safe
Because one of his insurance policies was that he was in Nauvoo and he knew that they wouldn't they wouldn't attack the
Prophet while he was in Nauvoo because then the Mormons would kill him. Yeah, and the fact that they did it anyway
is good argument that they didn't give a rat's ass about Thomas Ford. Clearly not, clearly not. Obviously they wanted him dead.
So at this point he says that I I don't have the exact quote
but essentially that he realizes that his duties were done there and that he needed to get back to Springfield and
put together a huge report that he would then eventually present to Congress.
Yeah, but he does spend a bit more time there in in the Carthage area, in Quincy, in the nearby towns
just trying to coordinate what's going on, trying to disband all of the militias, trying to keep the Mormons from marching on to Warsaw and Carthage.
And I attribute his speech in Nauvoo the day that this happened as well as
the letter that Willard and John Taylor sent to Nauvoo that night.
I attribute those as the reason why the Mormons didn't go on a killing spree.
Yeah, human nature would into it that they would
but they didn't. They remained home and
the way that the Mormons learned about it was Porter Rockwell was headed to Carthage late that night.
He had a bad feeling or he caught in till whatever the case was.
He
headed towards Carthage and he gets about three miles outside of Nauvoo
and he runs into one of the messengers who tells him that
Joseph and Hiram are dead. John Taylor's presumed dead as well.
And it's at that point that Porter Rockwell rides through
Nauvoo at two in the morning yelling that they've killed the prophet. God damn them. They've slain Joseph and Hiram.
Wakes up the whole town. And that's where we should draw into our curtain today because that's Porter Rockwell's famous ride right there.
Yeah.
Stay tuned for next week.
Great. It's not over. It's just beginning. It's just beginning.
I know I did a shameless plug at the beginning, but I think it's important that you can give a little more info on naked Mormonism
if you don't mind, Bryce.
Yeah, I appreciate that. Yeah, so I hope that if, you know, viewers have stuck around this long, right?
Like you you understand that there's a lot of material here. There's a lot more material than you're nodding to like so much more.
So much more.
So much more.
Bryce, you are an encyclopedia. I make a joke about you need an encyclopedia moment in the gut in my book or it's would have been, you know,
multi-volume set. You are that multi-volume set. You are what I appreciate that.
I really, really do. Well, and part of my fascination with all of this started just when I started learning about atheism
and I wanted to pick up a book on early Mormon history
and yours was one of the first books that I read about this topic that caused me to like, oh my god,
this is interesting. What? What is this? This is crazy interesting.
And, you know, that was, you know, not soon after that I picked up a copy of No Man Knows My History and the Seminole Works and
started this journey. So I have you to thank for a lot of this journey.
I am very touched and hard to hear that. I did not know that and that really blows my mind.
Yeah, absolutely.
So this is obviously there's so much more material, you know, in what we've taken 22, 23 episodes to cover.
Eight series, eight part, ten part series, maybe 12.
Yeah, nine parts it'll be done. We got these nine parts.
It took me
224 episodes to go through this on my podcast, right?
So like there's there's so much more and almost all of my podcast episodes are longer than
any of the broadcasts we've done here because there's that much material and and you'd be surprised how
interesting the material remains the more you get into it.
Yeah, and the beauty of it all is from the virtual
Totality of these are from Mormon sources. Almost every single one are from true blue believing
Mormon sources. So it's and and he has them all listed if you have any questions where where they get in this crazy talk from it's not
Yeah, check my show notes. Check the show notes. I show my work. Yeah
All that is to say that, you know, all of the material that I did with naked Mormonism
I'm taking my thousands of pages of
Manuscripts because everything on the show is scripted, right?
So I'm taking all that research material and I'm currently in the process of compiling it into a book
And during that time if you sign up on my patreon patreon.com slash naked Mormonism
It's free to join right now. I charge on a per episode
Basis but because of this hiatus because of the natural conclusion time of the death of Joseph Smith and also because of
COVID-19 I've gone on hiatus. I'm not taking anybody's money right now
So if you want to join up you get not only the entire backlog 200 plus episodes
But also a number of the exposays and books that we've referenced during this series
I've read them into a microphone along with commentary
So there's a ton of extra material if you want to hear Mormonism unveiled
The history of the Saints in these huge exposays that were seminal and foundational at the time that they were published
Yeah, I read them all with my own audio commentary
So there's yeah, there's there's a ton of extra material there on the patreon page
Or if you just want to chime in and listen to the regular feed or I'd encourage you to
Check out my YouTube channel. I've uploaded what I called my road to Carthage series
Which are basically the last episodes of this whole timeline that just do a whole overview of early Mormon history
And discuss stories from the entire 39 years of Joseph Smith's life
That basically contextualizes and sets the groundwork for why
Carthage happened to Joseph Smith
So I'd encourage you, you know, that's a great place to start check out my 10 part
Road to Carthage series on the naked Mormonism YouTube channel great place to begin this this journey
And I can't begin to second that enough. It's like if you have any interest in early Mormon history, this man is your go-to
People say I'm a Mormon expert. I am not a Mormon expert not even close
And I've learned more
Just from watching you talking to you during this show than I have during my whole 10 years
I was working on my other Mormon book. So yeah, I cannot recommend him enough
Yeah, and likewise pick up Dave's book, right like that that complete heretics guide to Western religion book one the Mormons, right?
When I read it, I had a very very elementary understanding of Mormon history
And that was only the Joseph Smith era that book covers all the way up to maternity basically and I the way I
Approached you at a conference after this. I was like I was hanging on by the edge of my
Fingernails with this book you rip us through the history so fast
but it's an excellent overview of early Mormon history and and a very
broad broad overview of stuff, you know post Joseph Smith to maternity. It's a very fast-paced very
Accessible very easy to understand. So, you know, David's book is also an excellent place to start on this journey of learning Mormon history
And even if you're not Mormon or ex-Mormon yourself, there are some lessons in this for all of us
It teaches you about humanity
It's true. Yeah, he was kind enough to orchestrate this whole thing and give us his platform for so long
So yes, thank you so much Derek where you wouldn't have an absolute blast
You guys don't need to thank me. The thinking is is dude. I got free education
I got a free front row seat to a Netflix show series right here on my channel
I mean, come on. I can't be thing. I gotta be thinking you you know, you really you guys are seriously not only great people
but
Your your serious journey is focused on the truth and wanting to know what the actual truth is and
That's why I realize everything. Yeah, you guys are really trying to like look
Let's cut the BS. Okay. Let's let's look behind
What's been presented about these facts historically speaking and I really do
Appreciate it because I've learned more than I think I would have probably ever have learned about Mormonism
From what you presented and you have my my interest piqued to want to go check out
Your podcast and actually watch these shows more in depth after this series
I'm so busy as it is, you know producing the content that you know, I never thought let me go just listen to these podcasts
But I have time when I travel. I'm in the car dude
Two dollars. Come on man. That's nothing. So why not bump that up? Why not hook you up with a $10, you know for a show
Here's 10 bucks for helping me up rice and that's questions on the patreon like
Personally engage with you if they join your patreon as well as of course Dave, you know get in the book
Something like that. That's fast-paced that kind of like this show
I just had to tack like tack on like plugging that because
You know, I can't stand the naysayers that are like you have to say like there's one thing about me
Man, I get all these comments and all the positive ones like yes
Yes, yes, but then there has to be that one comment and you're like dude
Seriously yourself in our shoes and understand
How can we convey this to you to ask for the audience's help so that we can continue in this endeavor to continue driving home this?
Angle like you want to listen to a Mormon?
Apologists teach you this history sure go ahead
Hey, if you want to listen to Mormon Apologists tell you the story just go visit these
Locations that are staffed by missionaries and owned by the church and they will tell you the believing narrative
Yeah, because that's all that Mormons are capable of telling and retelling
Because there's so many dark little corners of this history that they can not tell you that they themselves
Don't know
And I can tell you anybody who has watched this series through from the first to what we are at now
You have already
Forgotten more Mormon history than almost any Mormon will ever know about their own religion, right?
And like and that's just because you watched the YouTube series on this. Yeah. Yeah Wow
guys
Say next week man
This is just I love this and I thank you for your time and your efforts and I want to back out because I gotta let you guys talk
I just too often will stop and it's accidental
Accidental, but I really enjoyed the way I did it this time for you and Dave to really bounce off and
And allow for me to just listen just like the viewer and this was a really really interesting show
That the way they died it's just awkward. I wonder what we don't know, you know
I wonder we don't know and so thank you for doing this
Let's do this again next week
And I hope anyone who's watching go down in the description all the links to help these gentlemen are there
We really really really appreciate every one of you guys who help
We don't tell you enough and it's so difficult with everything we do how much we appreciate and value your positivity your criticisms
You know the likes that you guys put on the videos and reaching out to these guys personally to say hey
Thank you for for what you guys do like that stuff means so much
We can't put it into words and we really want to thank you
From the bottom of our hearts for everything that you do and you guys can go and check these guys out
Like I said and make sure you guys like this video leave us a comment
Tell us what you think we'll do a live Q&A type thing at the end and there's still we have a ton of questions, right?
You and you and Dave are supposed to clash on this idea of the development of the Book of Mormon or something like
There's something that you guys are gonna get to dispute in a fun friendly way at some point
Disagreements on certain ideas and you guys get to stay tuned on that
The last thing I would say is don't ever forget
we are
MythVision
