Join our Patreon.
Do you only want a number one?
We are Misfiction.
We are Misfiction.
We are Misfiction.
Welcome back, ladies and gentlemen.
Today, I have a special surprise.
I've had a lot of people who have approached me and said,
Derek, you need to have a woman join you on your show.
Is this a male only Misfiction show?
What's going on here?
And I said, look, I've actually recorded a few videos with females.
I'm sorry that you haven't seen them.
I'm not a male chauvinist.
I promise.
And anyway, I get to not only have a female join me today,
but a scholar in the field and someone who's gone and got education in
the background, Megan Lewis.
Is that okay if I call you Megan?
Absolutely fine.
Okay, welcome to myth vision podcast.
Thank you for joining me.
Oh, thank you for having me, Derek.
And I'm looking forward to it today.
I want the answer to the universe by the time we're done with the show.
I'll see what I can do.
Seriously, Josh is outside doing his work right now.
She's on here and they're, they're family.
They're wonderful people go to their YouTube channel.
They educate for free.
Of course, donations are obviously please, you know, help.
We have an impressive book habits.
So really all of the donations we get through digital.
I'm Robbie go to the library.
Show them some love and seriously go subscribe.
If you're not familiar with them.
First of all, let me tell you a little bit about digital.
I'm Robbie and give a little list off here to get us introduced to
Megan and her husband, Josh, who's not here right now, Dr. Josh.
Digital homerabid is a public outreach, digital humanities project,
creative brainchild.
One big word right there of human or of human of husband and wife,
a seriology team, Megan Lewis and Joshua Bowen.
Megan, who is joining us today has a bachelor's from Birmingham
University in the UK in ancient history and a master's in
philosophy from the same in a seriology.
And I believe this a master's in Near Eastern studies from
John Hopkins University.
And you obtained a ABD status and PhD program at the John
Hopkins John Hopkins University before deciding that your energies
are better spent elsewhere and you plan to go back at some point
maybe or.
I will, I think once, once we don't have small children running
around.
I love them dearly, but they are not terribly conducive to
research.
I imagine so.
I got three boys and they are crazy.
Yeah.
Respect.
I totally respect that doesn't take away your husband is also
PhD doctorate in the very similar fields.
He has a master's in theology and the list can go on.
You guys have two books currently right now that I recommend if
any of you are interested in checking it out.
I've interviewed Dr. Joshua Bowen on did the Old Testament
endorse slavery.
Of course, I was wanting him to kind of take a back to the to the
whole thing, but you got to imagine that's in a different time
and it's interesting.
The show we did.
I'll leave that in the description down below and learn to read
ancient Sumerian.
That's also really well known publication that you guys have had.
We've actually been very surprised at the reception, especially
the Sumerian book has had.
There's a perception in academia that what we do is so esoteric
and so like out there, no one, no one else is really interested
in it.
But Josh filmed a learn to read ancient Sumerian video series
just in like 11 introductory videos.
And the first video in that series is hands down the most viewed
video on our entire channel.
Like by several hundred thousand views.
And the the Sumerian grammar book we launched.
So we published the book in late December.
And I think on average since then is what is May now on average.
We've sold 77 copies a month, which I didn't expect to sell 77
copies total.
So we're very pleased with that.
And it's nice that so many people are interested.
I was going to ask is, is it just scholarly type or just inquisitive
people that are just like, or is it kind of a mix of like, I want to
know if ancient aliens is true.
I think it's a bit of a mix.
I know that we have a lot of people who like watch the channel
and have gone through all of the videos, the Sumerian videos.
And the book gives you a little bit more detail and gives you more
exercises.
So it's a bit more of a stretch.
So there's a lot of, I call them like interested non specialists
who have gone out and bought it.
I know we've also had a grad students and we've had a couple of
professors buy it.
And a friend of mine who works at Oxford University is trying to
persuade her department to use it.
Not quite as a textbook, but as a teaching tool for their incoming
graduate students.
So it's a good mix.
Wow.
You said something a little while ago, esoteric.
And that I actually love that word.
It's a great word.
It really is because it strips away, in my opinion,
the, where I come from fundamentalism and so many respects.
I'm not saying there isn't esoteric thought in that field,
but stuff becomes so exoteric and you really,
they're asking you to swallow pills that seem too big to swallow
after you have to consider these ideas.
And we'll, we'll rabbit throw into your, your stuff here.
I just wanted to make a point back when I was a fundamentalist.
I remember reading Jonah and I was so excited about the Bible.
I still love the Bible by the way.
It's a great piece of literature.
It is.
Especially when you look at it and kind of,
and really know the human side of it.
Like there's so much more to it rather than trying to make it a magic
book.
I said one time in a car with my phone recording me and I said,
if the Bible said that Jonah swallowed a well,
I would believe it.
Oh, bless you.
I meant,
I meant it as delusional as I was.
I saw, I really meant it, but at the end of the day,
today I'm like, okay, is this a celestial?
Is there some backdrop that's celestial in nature here?
Is it, of course it's, you know,
relevant to some scenario with the Assyrians and we get it.
But I mean, like fish swallowing,
I'm going down in the bottom of the sea, come on or shield, whatever.
Anyway, that's what you guys do.
And I'm so excited to have you join me.
So with that being said,
tell us a little bit about yourself and what led you in the path
that you went down to become what you are today in terms of
research and these things.
Sure.
Well, in high school, I was really lucky and I took classics.
So I did Greece and Roman mythology and some like Greek and Roman
architecture and art and I absolutely loved it.
And then upon graduating decided that I was going to be an artist.
So I went to art school for a year and then I started a jewelry
and silversmithing degree, which made total sense in my brain.
I think my mom looked at me and was just like,
what, but I, you do you, I love you,
but what in God's name are you doing?
So I did a year of that and then my younger sister was like going
around universities and going to open days and working out what she
wanted to do when she graduated high school.
And she came to Birmingham, which is where I was.
And she had an open day at Birmingham University.
And one of the lectures that she sat through and I went with her
because I hadn't seen her for a while and I thought,
yeah, this could be interesting.
One of the lectures she sat through was like an introduction to
their ancient history undergraduate degree.
And I was absolutely hooked.
Like it was an hour start to finish and I just listened to
everything avidly and came out and just basically said,
I have to change degrees.
I have to do this.
This is amazing.
So, and it did group programs in the UK for listeners who don't know
work slightly differently to the United States.
You specialize as soon as you enter.
So I, you don't go to get like a general degree and then you major
in something after your first year or two.
You start out as, I was an ancient history student.
That was all I did for three years.
And I was really lucky.
It's a great program.
We did greet in Rome again, but also Mesopotamia and Egypt.
Neither of which I'd had much exposure to before.
Really loved them.
It was just fascinating.
And the courses were amazing.
I did my undergraduate thesis as a comparison between Greek mythology
and Mesopotamia mythology.
And the gentleman who supervised my thesis suggested that maybe I
would do well going into a seriology, which is the study of
Mesopotamia, ancient Iraq, ancient Syria and the languages and
cultures in that region.
So, and I, I kind of took his advice to heart.
I had wanted to be a classicist when I started the degree program.
But he made the points that there is so much more left to discover
and so much more that needs translating from Mesopotamia than
greet in Rome.
The classics is such an old established discipline.
There's so much work that has already been done and there's not,
it's not like they're discovering new texts on a terribly regular
basis.
Whereas with Mesopotamia, you have this horrible backlog of
cuneiform tablets that haven't been looked at.
They're very fragmentary.
They need piecing together.
And as it becomes easier to excavate again in the Middle East,
that is only going to increase.
So his argument, which I found compelling, was that there is
more to sustain a career in Mesopotamia.
You should consider that.
So I did my first master's degree with him.
Loved it.
Great time.
And then went and started a PhD program at Johns Hopkins,
which I also loved.
Hardest work I have ever done in my entire life.
You don't have a life when you go to grad school.
And I laugh about it, but it's awful.
It's absolutely awful.
It's so bad for your mental health because you just,
you wake up and you work and then you work and then you go to sleep
and then you wake up and do the same thing.
And even if you love the subject, which I do, obviously,
that is, that's a lot to have to do.
So I got seven years into that, probably had one or two years left.
And I'd written probably half of my dissertation and just realized
I can't do this anymore.
I had at the time, so I left the program last summer,
so summer 2019.
And Oliver, our son, was a year and a half old.
And the thought of carrying on with us, like a baby,
and knowing that Josh and I wanted another child,
it just, it wasn't, it wasn't feasible.
It would have broken me.
So I made the decision to step back.
So I left with another master's degree.
So I had two of those, which is very exciting.
And yeah, at some point I'll go back and I'll finish and I'll,
I'll go back to my PhD, but right now,
the rest of life is a little bit more important.
So.
Lots of respect. Yeah, lots of respect.
I, you know, I haven't done that.
I've only have a bachelor's in theology and from biblical studies
and theology and from a Christian college too.
So you can only imagine where my head was.
A lot of respect to do that as a mother too.
I just want to say, you know,
my hat is tipped to you because just being a parent alone
and not even being the female who's like the main caretaker,
you know, that you did a lot.
And so I can see why you'd pull out too,
because at that point I suspect you're going to lose interest
in the content that you're actually trying to love.
Yeah.
And it takes away.
And so I don't blame you because when you go back,
I can only imagine what it's going to do for you.
You're going to have all that stuff that you were taking in.
It's going to be settled.
That's going to be like, all right, I know that.
I know this.
I'm good.
I can do, yeah.
Not too much higher to go, you know.
Exactly.
And my advisor who is actually really great about me leaving,
he made the point that don't let your past decisions hold you hostage.
If this is not something that is working for you right now,
if this just isn't something you want anymore,
there is absolutely no shame in admitting that.
And I was like, I don't want this right now.
It's making me miserable.
It's making me a worse parents than I would like to be.
It's making me a worse scholar than I would like to be because I'm
resenting the work I'm having to do.
And it was just, it was the best decision to make.
I was going to say there's always the hormone thing too with,
with having kids.
You just, I don't know if that plays part,
but that can happen a lot with women.
So I wanted to ask, all right, you,
you delved into a seriology and your research is an ancient
Mesopotamian seriology. And of course you and Josh,
I hope he doesn't mind me calling him Josh here.
Cause I, Dr. Bowen, you know,
I try to be as professional as possible.
You both have talked a lot about the laws and stuff when it comes
to the ancient world and what it was like in the mind.
I've researched a little bit. Okay.
And I've talked to some scholars, John Knight-Lunwall,
Dr. John Knight-Lunwall, I've interviewed him and he doesn't
have that kind of degree for his background,
but he likes to go into the oralities of people pre-written
and how they thought and the same hardware as us,
different software completely.
Oh yeah, very much so.
And that I don't do a lot of, a lot of pre-history.
So a lot of pre-written research,
but that really does, you get a weird mix,
reading through Q and A form of very different thought processes,
but also things that are like strikingly similar.
So you look maybe through the laws and there are like laws about slavery
and you have to like treat your slaves in a certain manner,
which is, you know, good that it was regulated and good that you
couldn't just mercilessly beat someone,
but also to our modern mindset, you're allowing slavery.
That's kind of a problem.
But then you read through personal letters and there are these
fantastic letters from Turkey written by merchant trading families.
And you read the letters that wives were sending to their husbands
who had moved like several hundred miles away and then married
different women.
And you're like, wow, you're seriously pissed.
I can relate to that.
Wow.
That has a lot in common with everyday life.
Come home.
What are you doing?
You haven't seen your kids in five years.
I need more money for food.
You have to come home soon.
Really?
Wow.
And it's like just normal.
I mean, that's just so totally normal.
And there's one letter which is from a different,
a different time period, but I love it.
My, my Acadian teacher uses it for first year Acadian students
because it's just so engaging.
Um, this guy is, is writing to someone and the,
the, the gist of the letter is those rats,
you sent me was incredibly delicious.
If I'd known they were so delicious,
I wouldn't have sent them on to my friend.
Please send me more.
Wow.
I bet you you have those jaw dropping moments when you read some of these.
You're like thousands of years were just the same in so many ways.
So yeah,
he was going into how you find as writing,
writing starts to come on the scene and they're going into
uniform tablets and whatnot.
Um,
there was a shift over time in which the mind is trying to
compartmentalize things in a way in which the oral mind,
it doesn't,
they connected a star to why the plant grows and they knew that the
star had the power.
Like all this stuff I'd never really thought about.
I was like, wow,
in the ancient world we'd have probably thought the same thing.
If we weren't as scientifically advanced as we are and stuff,
but what does all of that you've researched in terms of a
seriology,
can you give us some examples of how like that's helped your world
view of the Bible since it's so big of an issue in the world.
You know, so many people read it.
So many people believe it.
Everybody has a different interpretation.
What has your ancient,
uh, or ancient Near Eastern research done for you with the Bible?
It's actually made us a lot more interesting.
Um,
Really?
Yeah.
So I am a Christian.
I'm Anglican.
Um,
and I was not raised with kind of a biblical inerrancy world view.
Um,
it's this guy.
Yeah.
I was like, I moved to the States and I was like, Holy shit,
people actually think this is true.
Like,
I actually never met someone who thought that Noah's flood happened
or that the world was genuinely created in six days.
Um,
so that was a bit of a culture shock.
Um,
but no,
it's like learning about Mesopotamia,
learning about the history of the region and the interplay between
like,
especially the nearest Syrian kings and the Israelite people,
um,
but also learning about the literary tradition that started in Southern Mesopotamia
and kind of migrated across and gets included ultimately in the Old Testament
is fascinating.
I think it's absolutely fascinating.
And I think knowing that background,
knowing the context of the history,
knowing the context of the writing,
it really gives you a much richer understanding.
Um,
of the Hebrew Bible is, as a book and the,
the different, um,
like themes and motifs that are running through it.
I,
it's much more interesting to me now than it was when I was like,
1718 and didn't really know an awful lot about,
um,
anything surrounding it.
I guess this is a segue into that.
Cause I did the show with Josh and Josh was describing the laws.
And I think this is an area where a lot of people,
don't you got to be a serious, like,
I think someone who's seriously interested in this information to care about an eye
for an eye and tooth for tooth type laws and how,
how does the Hammurabi code have similarities to the Bible?
All these things.
Um,
are there other examples other than just like the laws that we find in the Bible
that might be copies of ancient nearest and stuff that you can think of,
or.
Yeah, sure.
So, um,
the flood narrative is actually a great place to start with that.
Um, there are two flood narratives preserved in Mesopotamian literature.
There's a Cimmerian one.
Um,
called Atrahasis.
And then there is one preserved in the Gilgamesh epic,
which is in Akkadian.
Um, and especially with, with Atrahasis,
he finds, um,
like very obvious evidence of, of borrowing.
Um, and I did a whole video series about why this isn't actually plagiarism.
Um, because they,
it's not like a whole sale of removal of the whole myth.
Um,
it's not like a whole sale of removal of the whole myth.
Um,
obviously because Atrahasis talks about all of the Mesopotamian deities and,
um,
the motivation behind sending the flood is very,
very different and the results are very,
very different.
Um, the Mesopotamian gods send the flood because basically humanity is too loud
and they can't sleep anymore.
Um,
so they're like, well, just flood the earth.
It'll be fine.
Um,
it'll be fine.
Um,
so they're like, well, just flood the earth.
It'll be fine.
Uh,
and then one of the gods is like, hang on.
I quite like some of these people.
Um,
I'm going to save these ones.
Um,
and ultimately that's a good thing because, um,
the gods do rely on humanity for,
for worship and for food offerings and all that kind of thing.
Um,
but then you look at,
you look at the biblical accounts and it's very different.
Um,
there are enough similarities that scholars are very confident that the
people who wrote down, um,
the account with Noah were aware of the Mesopotamian versions.
Um,
but it's been changed and reframed so that,
um,
instead of it being a kind of capricious act by,
by like gods who haven't slept enough recently,
it's something that humanity deserves.
It's something that Yahweh is completely justified in bringing down on us.
And ultimately we're saved by his, like his good graces, um,
and his favor.
So there's like, there's no bad God.
There's no good God.
It's just Yahweh and his infinite wisdom doing what is best, um,
for everyone, which is a, it's a very interesting switch.
Um,
and I think you miss a lot of that interest and a lot of that nuance by kind of
trying to say that the biblical account is, is like the only one.
It's the only interesting one. It's the only true one. Um, yeah,
you, you miss an awful lot of that. Um, when actually what it is,
is a, um,
a reuse of an existing motif to prove your own deity's supremacy over all
other gods.
That was well said and much appreciation there. In fact,
I think Dr. Robert millionaire prize, which I interview often on here.
Uh, he's just right down the street.
So I've got a million videos in the back.
At some point I'll bump into more scholars and have more, you know,
camera time for everybody, but I love him. He's such a kind guy.
He said, there's only one book that he's personally found plagiarism.
Like he thinks that there is plagiarism verbatim is, um,
is in the book of acts and it comes from the, uh,
Dionysus, the Bacchae, uh, Euripides.
And that's the only book he says at all. And I'm like, but aren't there
parallels? He said that doesn't mean, even if there's parallels,
it doesn't mean plagiarism. And I'm like, okay,
I've got a lot of learning to do cause, you know,
because we like our society uses plagiarism as kind of a catch all,
um, excuse me, term for like copying or borrowing from one place to
another. Um, but the example that one of the examples I give in the video
is that, um,
the movie clueless is based entirely on Jane Austen.
Um, and the book in like seriously heavily informs the movie,
the plot is identical, but,
and a knowledge of Emma, I think really helps you or it helps me at least
enjoy the movie more. Um,
but the movie makes sense by itself as a standalone thing without anyone's
knowledge of Emma. And I think that's, that's an important distinction.
It's, um,
plagiarism doesn't make sense without the original. Um,
and I think, uh, intertextuality and, and textural reuse of themes and motifs
and even whole stories. Um, if you're building on them and elaborating on them,
they function absolutely fine as, as like standalone works of art.
Well said too. Cause I'm thinking, you know,
I'm new to the whole game of mimetic criticism and seeing how there might be
usage of other works, even in the development of the New Testament,
New Testament, cause that's taboo. Remember, you can't go.
Once you get to Matthew, Mark, so you got to stop thinking, you know,
no, it's there, but, but it's beautiful what you said there,
because you can read these as I always have and found beauty in these stories,
not knowing their original or that there's stuff that may be imported.
Um, yet the people who wrote these things probably saw exactly what you're saying
and said, this will just, anyone who reads this and sees Jesus calm in the storm,
might think Homer and the Odyssey. Exactly. And it, it informs your reading
and it provides a much more, like a much richer experience.
And it, it links something new to a very old textual tradition,
which is, um, it's important in the ancient world and it's important in,
in ancient Mesopotamia, like creative originality wasn't,
wasn't prized then like it is now. Um,
you were seen as, as more intelligent, more, um,
more skilled at the craft of writing by your ability to take existing themes
and to reference existing stories that people knew, um,
because then they could like understand and recognize where you were coming from.
And it like, it makes you feel good. If you read something, you're like, Oh,
I know where that's from. That's really clever. Um,
this originality thing is, is a definitely a modern invention.
That is, it must be a social construct that, you know, modern how we are today.
A question I thought be interesting for anybody watching, you're a female,
obviously in a, in a field probably full of males.
Oh, so many men. It's getting better though over time.
It is actually. Um,
what's your experience? Um,
so a lot of the, like the established tenured professors tend to be male. Um,
especially the older generations,
there is a fantastic group of like young early career researchers, um,
coming up who are women who are doing really exciting, very innovative,
innovative work. Um,
and getting to know them and calling them friends and colleagues has been one of
the joys of running digital Hammurabi. Um,
because actually I have time now that I'm not in grad school
and not working 24 hours a day.
I have time to do things like, um,
network with people with my peers to like say, hi,
can I do an interview with you? You seem really awesome. Um,
which for a social interpreter like me is, is a great excuse to talk to people.
Um, cause I'm like, I don't have to like be weirdly awkward and say,
I'd like to be friends, please. I can just say,
I'd really like to hear about your research. Um, and then we just,
we just talk about their research and it's great. Um, I, yeah, I,
I love it. And they're really, really great people.
I, I don't think I can read the signs. Like I personally, for me,
like I'll write somebody and I'm not afraid. I'm very extroverted in the way
that I communicate. And like they might not respond or they give me like the
kind of cold shoulder and I still press like, so are we going to hang out
and talk or, you know, and, and another guy's like,
I'm not sure he knows how to take you yet. Maybe give it some time.
And that's been my experience with myth vision.
I'm trying to interview people and have certain folks come on and they,
there's some ideas that I have interviewed that they don't like.
And I'm like, come on guys, look, you don't have to agree with everything.
I tell this to people who are really good friends of mine who watch my show
and they get all worked up. Man, why did you interview that historicist?
And I'm like, well, you do know that like 99.9% of the world.
This is what most people think. Right.
It might not be true, but we should at least like maybe listen to what they
have to say. That's a great way to be though, because it means that you,
like you're not inhibited by this. I have this like weird fear of,
am I being seriously rude by asking this person to come on my YouTube channel?
Like we would, we were talking before we started,
and we got this really well-known British biblicist on.
And like, I'm still shocked that she agreed.
Like it took me a year and a half to message her.
And she'd said on Twitter, I'd be very happy to come on your show.
And it took me a year and a half still to work up the courage to message her.
If you need help with any of that.
I will call you.
Just tell Josh to hit me up. I'm not afraid.
Hold on. Let me get the vice president on here real quick.
No, but you guys are awesome and you're so kind.
You guys are such kind people.
Josh was patient with me.
I'm sure he's thinking this guy's like an anti-bible at first, you know,
he really enjoyed talking to you.
I love him, man. He's great.
You guys got to check him out for real.
Both of you guys have tons of stuff on Daniel.
I got to pull up your channel just to list some of this stuff because I was
going to ask you in that line while I pull up your channel.
Have you had a negative, like, have you realized any type of male chauvinism is
like a common, like if you're a female, there's kind of a bias there where they
look at you like, what's Josh have to say?
Or like, what's the guys have to say?
Do you have that?
Or is that just a once in a blue thing from certain individuals?
Not overtly.
I've been, I think, pretty lucky.
I will say that it's, there definitely is bias.
I think it's more subtle than that.
So the example I always give is.
I left my PhD because I was raising three children and trying to write a dissertation
and it was too much and I couldn't do it.
There are several men in that same department in a very similar situation with
children who will graduate and have graduated because they don't necessarily
have the childcare burden that I do.
And that's not necessarily just a sexism thing.
That's my personal circumstance.
Josh works full time and we can't afford childcare.
So it makes most sense for me to be home and looking after the kids.
But at the same time, there is a kind of an implicit assumption that when you're a graduate
student, and it varies from department to department and field to field, but there's
an assumption when you're a graduate student that your studies come first.
And there is very little recognition, especially for female students who have
children and statistically speaking are more likely to be primary caregivers that
actually we might need more support or we might need to take slightly longer to
finish because we have to raise kids at the same time.
It's not an overtly, it's not like an overtly chauvinistic thing, but it is a
problem that I don't think universities have caught up to yet.
I had to ask that and thank you for the courage of just being honest because
someone out there might be going through something like that and they watch this
and go, you know what, I'm in the same boat and that's my experience.
Sometimes we've got to encourage them to keep going.
Maybe they're just going through a little bit of a tough time and that's life.
But when you've got kids, you've got to figure out what's best.
And I'm going to butcher her name.
So I'm going to try and give our audience here a digital homorabity, which you guys
go to the YouTube channel.
You'll see Francesca, how do you pronounce her last name?
I need it up in front of me because otherwise I would also butcher it.
Hang on.
It's.
So, uh, hang on.
Stravra.
Very tough to pronounce that one.
For me.
Steve Rocapoli.
She's awesome.
She was great.
Yeah.
Yeah, I'd love to interview her at some point because I heard her on, you
know, with my whole, the historicity, she has openly said Moses.
No, Abraham.
No, mythological.
Right.
And, um, what's that mean?
I guess we could probe into that.
What she means by that.
Does that mean there could be at the basis?
Could it be another character?
Some kind of historical.
Or maybe a way back when or just borrowed from somewhere else.
Yeah.
Yes.
Is that what she means?
Or could it mean what she means?
And then also what does that question bear on Jesus?
Because when she was asked that by a guy in an interview, I'm sure you
watched most of her stuff.
If you haven't, I'm sure you will.
Um, she answered it in a way of saying, well, she paused.
So I'm like, oh, you know, I'm interested.
Yeah.
And she said, well, most scholars think that he existed.
And that was her answer.
And I was like, what do you think?
Yeah.
You know, like I want to know in complete not saying you got to be a
hook line sinker,
Memphis is to think I'm not sure that there was.
I don't know.
But I wanted to get her.
I wanted to ask that on your show.
But I was like, she's.
Part of the questions.
Do you know?
No, that was a good interview.
That was amazing.
You guys have 10,000 views in just a few days.
That was really, really awesome.
And like our videos will normally get a few hundreds in that time.
Um, so.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I want to definitely, um,
Start getting my audience to see what you guys are putting out there to
educate.
You know, ourselves on this, because it's super important.
What, let me ask you this.
The, uh,
Assyriology, right?
This is a ancient Assyria.
If I'm not mistaken.
And so it is, it's also, so it's.
Mesopotamia is kind of splitting to historically into two regions.
You've got the Syria in the north and then Babylonia in the south.
Um, and that's, that's a later division, but it's,
it's what people are most familiar with.
So we tend to use it.
Um,
It roughly covers the, the whole of Iraq, parts of Syria,
Kuwait.
Um, you kind of, you get influences and you get bits of history coming in
from like ancient Turkey, um, Anatolia and also from the Levantine coast.
Um,
But the, the cultures.
It's difficult cause you people, you say Assyriology and people automatically
assume Assyria.
Um, but it's actually, um, you've got the Assyrians,
you've got the Babylonians, you've got, um,
earlier in history, uh, the Sumerians.
Um, and then all of these kind of people that invade them and they interact
with, and they have like international, uh,
exchanges with and diplomacy with them.
It's a, it's a very varied field.
Um,
partly because of the massive geographical area we're talking about,
but also because of the chronological period that we look at.
Um,
most Assyriology programs will start with, um,
the invention of writing around like fourth millennium BCE, um,
and go all the way through until the Persian conquest.
Um, a lot of them will continue into Hellenistic periods.
So Alexandra Macedon.
Um,
But like post Alexander,
some solution stuff, which is like several thousand years,
uh,
which is, uh,
an awful lot for anyone person to get a handle on.
So what happens is people tend to specialize. Um,
and that most usually happens when they start their PhD dissertation,
they work out which areas they're most interested in and what they want
to spend three, four, five years focusing in on. Um,
so then you get someone like me who's done a lot of work in like the second
millennium BCE doesn't know. I mean, I, I know about the new Assyrian period.
I know about the new Babylonian period, but like the Persian periods.
I mean, I know it exists. I know very roughly what happens,
but I can't talk about it with any kind of authority.
Right.
So that being said, uh, ancient, ancient second century,
I got to go where you know, cause honestly,
I don't have a clue of any of it. So, uh, I'm, you might say something.
Oh no, I have heard that, but you know, I don't really,
I can't speak on that at all. Um, when people think of like the Greeks,
they know the pantheon of like Greek deities or they think of the Hebrew Bible.
They know there's Yahweh and the different Abrahamic or not Abrahamic,
but I'll just say the patriarchs and whatnot,
which some suggests there might be like the divine or they may be deity type
of figures not going there. I'm just making a point like we know what they are.
When you think of ancient Assyrian or this Assyriology, if you will,
cause this multiple two different areas, if you will, regions, whatever.
Um, what, when you think of that, what is their religion now?
I know they have a flood myth or a couple of flood myths you said.
What is their pantheon? What, can you give like a general of what it is?
Yeah. So Mesopotamian religion, um, is quite, uh,
uh, varied. Um, but has, uh, I'm going to contradict myself.
It's very, but it has a lot of similarities and continuities. Um, early on in history,
you have each individual city, um, is kind of like its own city,
state, and they all have individual pantheons. Um,
a lot of them have the same gods. Um,
but the patron gods of that particular city will vary from, from place to place.
Um, so if you're looking at it like a city state of Lagash, um,
the patron god is, is the warrior god Nengisu.
If you're looking at the city of Uruk, it's the, the, um, warrior goddess, uh, in Anna.
Um, so which gods are more important varies geographically.
Um, they are all viewed as being like real. Um,
they're often related to each other, like how they're related changes based on where you are.
So if we're taking in honor as our example, sometimes the moon god is her father.
Sometimes the sky god is her father.
It depends on, on what text you're looking at and where that text originated.
Um, this doesn't seem to have caused anyone any problems in the ancient world.
Contradictions were cool.
It bugs us. Yeah. Right. It bugs us, but they were like, cool. Okay. Fine. Um,
as time goes on, what happens is that all of these, um,
like slightly different pantheons kind of merge and synchronize.
And gods that may have been distinct at one period in time,
but have similar characteristics are understood to be, um,
aspects of the same deity or maybe the same deity just under a different name.
And the easiest way to look at that is again, the goddess in honor, who is, um,
she's the goddess of sex and, and also warfare. Um, and in the south,
she's known as an honor. And then when you go up north to a serious, she's called Ishtar.
Um, so the name for the same God even changes. It's the same. Yeah.
Oh, wow. Yeah. They understand her to be the same deity.
So then, um, as time goes on, like the Assyrians kind of rise to supremacy and invade Babylonia
and, um, and rule it, um, as, as one large kingdom.
So then the name Ishtar is, is used much more frequently. Um,
and then in like the Neo Assyrian period,
it's just you don't really hear about an honor any much Ishtar,
but it's the same goddess. She has the same characteristics. She has the same family.
Um, and she's understood largely to be, to be the same deity. Um,
so there are, um, a selection of kind of supreme, uh,
uh, deities. Um, there's the sky God on. Um,
there's Enki who's kind of, I don't want to say trickster, but he's, um,
he's the guy who foils everyone else's plans and, um, kind of saves humanity.
Uh, during the floods when everyone else is trying to drown them. Um,
and then there's the, yeah, he's, he's a cool guy. Um,
and then there's the, the water God and Lil, uh, who's thought to live below the earth.
The Mesopotamian worldview was you had the earth on top and then underneath was
this like really deep kind of sweet, pure water, um,
called the albzu and that's where, um, and little lived.
Is this similar to the waters above waters below Genesis? You think?
Yes. Similar. Very similar. Um,
there was like a dome as well, like, like in, um, in Genesis,
um, and then, so they were kind of like the three main gods,
but then again, as time goes by and different cities become more or less important,
um, who's at the head of the pantheon changes and fluctuates. Uh,
so in the second millennium BCE in what we call the old Babylonian period,
which is time of Hammurabi, um,
the city of Babylon becomes much, much more important than it was previously
before it was kind of like not quite a backwater, but it was,
it was Babylon. No one really cared terribly much. Um,
but then as the city grew in importance and kind of political clouds, um,
you have their city God, who's a guy called Marduk, um,
becoming much more important, which is, uh,
actually where the Anuma Eilish myth comes in.
Anuma Eilish is, is often called the Babylonian creation myth.
Uh, there are loads of creation myths from Mesopotamia.
So it's not the only one. Um,
but it's the most well known and it's probably the most completely preserved.
But one of the, um,
one of the points of that myth is to tell how Marduk goes from being
not a minor deity because he's super important anyway,
but how he goes from being an important God to being the most important God
and actually king over the rest of the pantheon. Um,
because his city has grown and increased in stature,
he also has to grow and increase.
And, and what happens in the physical world is,
is often mirrored in the mythological realm as well.
And you see that in various different places. There's a, um,
and there's a myth, well, not really a myth, but there's a, um,
in the third millennium BCE,
there's a fight between two cities over land rights and the,
the steely of the vultures, which is the giant stone block that this fight is
recorded on. Um, like they, they write down what happened, but then, um,
they also in relief carve out, um,
like the mythological scene of what happened.
So you see Nengisu who's the,
the God of the city that was victorious,
like essentially beating the crap out of his opposing deity.
And like his city was victorious. So he has to also be victorious.
Dude, we should do a show. Okay.
Like just going into store, you, me and Josh have story time.
Oh yes. You know, go through creation narratives and,
and just this region and this particular culture.
Uh, I'm fascinated with all of this.
And from what I was told, and I don't know because I've not read all this,
but I was told like the ancient Mesopotamian stuff is not as well preserved.
Like you said, there is stuff. Don't get me wrong. We have, we have writings.
Uh, we, well, I'm not, I'm not in papyri, but you know, we have,
uh, uh, can't even think my brain tablets. Yes. Tablets.
And it's not like as well written as what you would find like in the Greek epics
or stuff like that. But then again, I don't know.
So what are your thoughts on that?
So it, it, it varies drastically. Um,
we have a lot of stuff that is incredibly well written,
um, beautifully preserved because a lot of this mythology,
a lot of this literature was used to train scribes. Um,
so you have scribes in the advanced stages of their training,
writing out these literary texts. Um,
and you've got them doing it all over Mesopotamia in many different cities,
which means that when you go and dig those cities up as archeologists,
you find copies of identical texts in different places. Um,
and one of the jobs of the a seriologist is to take the tablets,
excuse me,
recognize whether they are from the same, um,
literary composition and then work out how they fit together. Uh,
and usually if you're lucky, there are a couple of lines,
like the bottom of one tablet is like the last two lines of the top of
another tablet. So you can kind of match them up and work out where they go. Um,
and even when we don't have very well preserved copies,
we often have enough copies with different bits of the same text preserved
that you can do that kind of jigsaw puzzle. Um,
and what people do is, is they write something called a score,
which is where you write out, um, if you've got five tablets,
you write out the first line of that composition for each tablet.
And you can see where there are gaps. So if tablet one is broken right at the end,
tablet two may be complete or it may have that, that broken ends preserved.
So then you can reconstruct a complete first line of, of a text. Um,
so it's quite labor intensive,
but we have an awful lot of material that's preserved very, very well. Um,
on the flip side, we also have some, some fantastic, really intriguing texts that
have like five lines and three of those lines are broken. Wow.
I thought, you know, the stories, I guess, where I'm going with this is, uh,
and I'm glad you educated on that. I didn't know how, how that worked. Uh,
but like the stories we all know so well, you know,
from the Bible and the Greek myths, um,
are the stories as colorful and as, uh,
I don't know if there's a word to use there to describe what I'm saying, but like,
you know, you can get an easy picture of what's going on in the stories.
I know we can do that with a flood myth. Pretty good. Uh, creation myths. I've
never read them. Uh, there, is it kind of similar in this, in this?
So the writing style is very different. Um,
you have a lot of repetition, which some people find quite frustrating.
Um, like they're repeat whole sections and that is,
that's just how Mesopotamian literature works. Um,
and you see a little bit of that in, in the Odyssey, they might, sorry,
I have a dog on my lap now. Um,
they might repeat a couple of lines here and there, but it's,
it's more pronounced with Mesopotamia, um, which for,
for Western literary sensibilities can be quite jarring. Um,
but I think by and large, they're beautifully written.
Um, and if you read through something like Gilgamesh,
um, and the Gilgamesh epic and it's framed so wonderfully,
the, the scribe who compiles.
So the Gilgamesh epic was originally a sec,
a selection of Sumerian stories and then they were woven together into one
like long epic by an Acadian scribe who kind of bookended
the original, the original stories with, um, this fantastic preface about,
um, like Framian is a contemplation on mortality and man's desire to,
um, have the, his name remembered and Gilgamesh's like search for like his
own, um, his own purpose almost. And it's, it's beautiful.
It's absolutely beautiful. And I think it's something that, um,
kind of still speaks to people and is, is still very relevant, um,
in our lives today. So they're not, I mean,
if you're used to the classics, no, they're very different and they feel very
different. But, um, I think if you, if you take the time to really get to know
what you're reading and to appreciate what it is you're reading,
um, I think they're very, very special.
Yeah, I definitely, I mean, if, I guess if we met them,
we had a time machine, we'd really get to know and say, okay, I,
these are real people with real emotions and feelings,
trying to understand why we live and why we die, you know, those type of things.
Exactly. Very important questions. Um, that really,
I got to get some reading done on this stuff.
Maybe you can send me some of the links to your channel that you go into this
material, maybe, or you and Josh, or even links. I'm interested in that as well.
Um, as far as what your goals are with your YouTube channel and future goals,
what are you wanting to do with your research?
Uh, do you have a particular goal like you want to teach it at college or do you
want to?
No, I used to want to. Um, and maybe,
maybe one day when the kids are grown, I'll teach to local community college.
Um, I don't want to work at Harvard and get Tanya. Um,
it's, it's too stressful to be brutally honest.
Uh, it's, it's a lot of work. And if I wanted to do that,
I probably wouldn't be able to do digital Hammurabi. Um,
because this kind of public outreach doesn't count in job searches.
It doesn't count in, in tenure packets. Um,
I was talking about this earlier on a different podcast. It's,
you're actively discouraged from doing this kind of outreach because it takes
time away from what you should be like spending doing serious research,
like publishing articles and going to conferences and, um,
which I'm still doing with presenting a paper at the serological conference in
November, which is going to be really exciting. But, um, no,
I don't want to get Tanya. Um,
I am really enjoying and the more I do it, the more I find value in it,
trying to share what I know with people who are interested,
who haven't had the opportunities I've had. Um,
because it, the analogy I use is that people,
everyone knows about Egypt. Everyone knows about teaching common.
Everyone knows about the pyramids. People don't know about Mesopotamia.
They don't know about the Ziggurat or they don't know all this amazing stuff.
Um, and I think it's important that we try and share that as much as we can.
So I want to keep doing that.
I want to try and reach as many people as I can. Um,
and alongside that, we actually run a scholarship program, um,
for PhD students. I've just applied for nonprofit funding.
So hopefully once the government starts back up again, uh,
we'll hear back from that. Um,
but we, we crowdfunds, uh, during the year to raise as much money as we can.
And the past, so last year and then this year we've managed to raise enough to
give three PhD students $2,000 each over the summer. Um,
which is, it's, it's,
it feels so good to be able to help because I mean,
being a student is expensive anyway. Like everybody knows that. Um,
but if you're a PhD students, even if you are accepted into a program that will
fund you, like pay your tuition and give you a stipend to live on,
they're not going to pay you the whole time you're there.
Like Hopkins will pay for five years. Uh, on average,
I think it takes eight to complete the PhD program.
So that leaves you with three years where you have to either take out loans or
like find a job or like hope that your parents can cover you,
which is, is really not, it's not practical for most people.
Uh, and it's definitely not practical for like minority students and students
from low income backgrounds. Um,
so being able to help that little bit and to make the summers,
not a time of stress when students can just actually do the research that
they're there to do. Um, because even, even if you get a stipend,
you're usually not given money over the summer and you do still need to do
things like buy food and pay rent. Um, so then you get a job.
And you extend your time in grad school ultimately because you're not working
for those three months over the summer. You're not doing your dissertation. Um,
you don't eat, which isn't really an option. Um,
you try and save enough over the year that you can pay for yourself,
but on a graduate student stipend, that's not terribly practical either.
Or you apply to, to scholarships and grants. Um, like the one we have.
So that's, yeah, we're just trying to help. Um,
and I really want to be able to grow that and to offer more students,
more support. Um, maybe one day it would be really cool if we could have like a
digital Hammurabi, um, post grads, uh,
like come work for us for a year and make videos about your research and help us
educate the world. Um, that would be super cool.
That's the direction. Okay.
So you're touching on something that I think is very important for the future.
Number one, everyone needs to know this.
I think it would be wonderful if we is just, just people in,
in letting the, the public grab this stuff without having to go and sit in a desk
in a university that requires an income. Don't get me wrong.
I understand that there's a lot of misinformation that goes out there as well.
So like having the wrong people doing this is obviously going to possibly cause you
to have misinformation, but with what you guys have done,
uh, you guys have serious scholarship. You guys have researched on a serious
level. Um, I think, and this is just my opinion,
your channel will grow and, and I understand it's not going to benefit
you in terms of going to a certain college or is this going to make me a
professor? Will I be able to have a teaching thing because I have 50,000
subscribers on YouTube? No, no, that may not be the case.
What it will do is open up doors in ways that you would never expect.
An example was I got hired at a rehab because all I did on my other YouTube
channel because I've got 18,000 subscribers on my other YouTube channel
where I talk about my personal subjective experience getting off drugs.
That was it. And like I was on drugs pretty bad. Um,
people found hope in my message and reached out to me and I got a job
when they realized that a lot of people reach out to me for help.
I got a job at a rehab helping drug addicts who needed.
So you may not go to a college because of it, but what if there was
another avenue in which the future is becoming like this?
Look at what we're going through right now.
Well, exactly. And I think, I think we're, we're starting to create
that, that future. Um, we've got some exciting collaboration projects
coming up with a couple of other big like history YouTube channels,
which is really exciting. And at the same time we're being recognized
by the Assyriological community. We had an interview go out last week
with, um, the International Association for Assyriology in,
in Europe, which runs like the biggest Assyriological conference in the world.
I was, I like, I nearly fell over when I saw that they emailed us.
It was amazing. Um, and, and then we've got this fantastic, um,
support network of people who are still students or people who have
graduated and are just starting their careers, who genuinely see value
in what we're doing and a want to help us, but B want to like use what
we're doing in their own teaching experiences. Um, and just really
think it's important to, to make this information freely available.
Um, and it's, it feels like a definite shift from the, the kind of
more mature, more mature, like tenured faculty saying,
not necessarily this is a waste of time, but this is not as important.
Um, and, and now people are saying, actually, you know what,
this is, this is something that needs to be done and we're glad you're doing it.
Yeah. I'm, I'm so glad you're doing this too, because you could easily go
spend the time in a college, speak to some individuals here and not put the
energy and putting this out there. I think you could do both. Uh, too often
when people get to the tenured moment, they've wasted away their life and the
social capabilities of expressing and creating avenues through MP4, MP3,
and other, now some scholars have successfully done it. Um, and some
wish they'd had done it 20 years ago because they realize now what, where
they would be in terms of how, how this information would have spread.
So who's to say you couldn't have this grow and eventually your kids grow.
Okay. I'll go to school like and figure out a way to do both.
If you ever want, but you know, like I'm with you 100% and Megan,
I learned a lot already just from a general. I want everyone who's watching.
I should have said this at the start. This is not a like, we're going deep
show. Okay. I wanted to introduce you guys to them to Megan and Josh from
Digital Humor Abbey because they're teaching stuff that you would either
pay in books to, to have to read. And if you're not a heavy reader,
like I've not been a heavy reader in my life, they make it more fun and exciting
and they bring it to the real world where we're kind of like, okay,
I can relate to this. This is something I could learn from them and it's free.
Um, obviously if you can help help, but it's, I'm just making the point that you
guys have like 407 videos or something.
We have a lot. Yeah.
I'm like, thank you, somebody who's trying to get this out there.
And, uh, I really do appreciate you joining me today.
If you had anything you'd like to say to someone who's wanting to learn more
about your field of research, is there anything in particular you would tell them?
It wasn't the aliens. Um, I think is, is the key thing to take away from,
from this discussion. Um, I think that's the most important thing is to
remember that humans have been humans for a very long time and we are
innovative and creative and amazing. We can be truly awful as well,
but let's focus on the, the amazing side of things for a minute.
Um, and there is a lot of history and Mesopotamia that is absolutely fascinating.
Um, it can be difficult to access because there's not an awful lot in the way of
publicly accessible material. Um, one of the reasons we started digital
Hammurabi is because it can be so hard to find things that aren't about aliens.
Um, and that don't require an academic journal subscription,
which is, is expensive and difficult to find. Um, so I guess read widely.
When you read, check who you're reading. Uh, always check, like, did they go to school?
Where did they go to school? Um, are they currently working? Um, like,
if they didn't go to school, it's not necessarily a deal breaker,
but maybe be a little bit more, more critical of, of what they're saying
and try and fact check it yourself. Um, also there are some fantastic, um,
online resources. If you want to read Sumerian literature and translation,
there is a whole website devoted to that. It's called ETCSL. Um,
and if you Google ETCSL Sumerian, you will come up with the website
and you can go and read Mesopotamian literature to your heart's content.
Um, there are other fantastic books. Sorry, I'm rambling here.
You're fine. Ah, I do have it. This one is like massive.
Um, but this has a massive amount of Acadian literature as well.
And he provides little bits of, um, information and context at the beginning
of each myth, each literary text. So you can kind of read about it.
Um, and actually Twitter, Twitter is a great place. Um, there are so many,
you know, form experts on Twitter talking about their work, tweeting about Mesopotamia,
um, sharing things they find interesting. So highly, I gotta get on Twitter more.
I must have to, I avoided it for the longest time,
but actually it's been the single greatest networking resource I've ever used.
I used to go on there to tweet at Joe Rogan and Randall Carlson.
Two guys and that was it. Um, thank you so much for, for sharing that.
And, um, guys go to digital homerabi.com, digital homerabi YouTube,
Twitter. Are you guys on Instagram?
Excuse me. We have one, but I don't really use it very often.
Twitter and YouTube are the, yeah, they're the places to find us.
You guys definitely let them know. Go show them some love.
Tell them you came from myth vision when you do.
Um, I gotta get you and Josh to come on. There's, this is great introduction.
You guys are such kind people and you know a lot of stuff that I know I can learn
from. I know my audience can learn from you guys. Uh,
I want to go into some of the stories. I'm a big story guy.
We can definitely do that.
Big time. I love stories, uh, parallels, things that you go, well,
look at this. I bet you didn't know that. And, uh, I bet you,
you probably have something about the book of Jonah that, uh, you know, I,
I personally don't, but I strongly suspect Josh would do something cause
it's a series in the mix here, but, uh, yeah, I would, I would like to have you guys
join us again. I really do appreciate that. And, uh, don't forget, ladies and gentlemen,
we are myth vision.
Join our Patreon.
We are myth vision.
