We are MythVision. Welcome back to MythVision Podcast. I have Lady C and JT joining me today.
Ex-Jahovish witnesses, how are you? Doing well, doing well, thank you.
Doing real good, doing real good, can't complain.
I really appreciate both of your work. I appreciate the way you carry yourself,
the things you teach, the way you're trying to help people free them from the cult mindset,
that prison mindset that comes from all these cults, especially the Jehovah's Witnesses.
And I just want to give a special shout out to you, making sure everybody's aware of your
YouTube channel. Sure.
Ex-JW critical thinker, it is in the description. Please go subscribe to our guest today.
They are working very hard to help many people leave the cult of the Jehovah's Witnesses.
And we're going to be discussing the Jehovah's Witnesses, but also those who are leaving and
what are we seeing? So my first question, let's ask ladies first and then we will tee it off to you,
JT. Are we seeing a lot more people leave after the COVID pandemic taking place?
Now things are opening up. Everyone could start to go where they want to go now.
And they didn't have the opportunity to go to the local hall.
So are we seeing a lot more people leave now? Are you seeing a rise?
Absolutely. We receive so many emails from individuals. In fact, we just received one
today from a sister in a congregation and she's asking that I keep her information private.
She's pretty high up in the congregation, her and her husband. And she has been Pimo for many years
and she can't wait to get out. Her husband does understand a lot of the stuff that she's saying
and he agrees with her. But I really kind of think he likes that power that he has as an elder in
the congregation. But I feel like, you know, when we were Jehovah's Witnesses and we were leaving,
you thought that that power was really something and it's nothing. You know, so hopefully he'll
realize that eventually. But we're getting so many emails from people telling us how they were
sitting at a Zoom meeting. They got very bored with the process and they started surfing the
internet and somehow our channel popped up on their radar and then they were able to get out.
Other people, I mean, when I tell you that individuals are even disfellowshipped, you know,
trying to come back, the elders are not giving them the opportunity to get reinstated. So they're
going online to find out how to get reinstated, coming across XJWs on the internet. There's a
lot of that going on a lot. Wow, JT. Oh, man, that's a very good question. In fact,
it's COVID has had a very negative impact on Jehovah's Witnesses. Let me just give a couple
examples. When COVID first hit, they went to people were being able to be at home to attend
the meetings. It started out that people had to literally dress up, suit, tie, Sunday shoes,
you know, Sunday shoes, I mean, every the whole nine yards, go sit in their living room and look
into a camera. And that's how it started out. By the time we now have passed with two years,
nobody has their cameras on and folks are sitting around in bedroom shoes and sports shorts.
That's where they're at now. So recently, they've just started to go back to the Kingdom Hall.
And what they did was very, it was really, they thought it was a brilliant move, but it actually
was more of a revealing move. They made the decision to go back the week that Jehovah's
Witnesses have was called the Memorial or the Passover, the celebration of the passing of the
bread and wine. And along with that, they have a special talk that they give on Sunday. So that
weekend was basically the, you know, that that that week and everything was most most exciting
week for Jehovah's Witnesses, because they would have their highest attendance. And of course,
they did. Last year, they had about 20 million people who showed up for the Memorial, as is called.
Well, the catch is, what do you get the following week? And that was really the telltale.
So many people wrote us and told us that the following weeks and the following meetings,
the Kingdom Halls are literally empty because they gave people the option. They gave them the
option of either staying home or coming to the Kingdom Hall. That's, that's a no brainer.
That's a no brainer. And I mean, we've had, we talked to someone, we talked to this older,
we talked to this older witness. She said, she said, it's just so nice. I can just stay here
in this chair. I can follow this week, wake up and just, just, and I'm still at the meeting.
Oh man. So just to drive home the point of just how bad it has become,
they are literally losing men, males in leadership roles. It was announced that a decision has been
made that they will now appoint elders as young as 20 years of age. My wife and I, we did a video on
the phrase it is often used when people talk about elders in congregations. They use the term
older men. That is a well-known established word, older men. And now they have taken that word,
when I was coming along, you had to be almost about 30 years old to be considered an elder in
many congregations, now as young as 20 years of age. So now you have a 20 year old who's now
going to go counsel a couple having marital problems and they're 44 or 45 years old.
Yeah. I mean, it's terrible. It's really bad. It's really bad. Remember the first week that they put
that into play? There was a sister in Michigan that called me that morning and she was on a Zoom
call and it was a 23 year old brother and he just turned 23 too. And he had been just recently
appointed as an elder and he actually gave the public talk that Sunday. And she said that the
outline that he gave the talk from was talking about paying attention to the older men in the
congregation. That was his talk. And following the lead of these brothers and whatever they're
saying, you got to do what they say. And I'm thinking, so they really laid that out real nice.
They set that stage pretty nice. They had the young brother give it, the new brother being
appointed and all that kind of stuff. So that was kind of like a slap in the face. I don't know if
I could have took that sitting down. You know how the Mormons, I've just always been just
fascinated by the Mormons, man. They will send guys to your home. It looked like they
may be 19. They just started shaving last week. And they will have this little tag that says
Elder Jones. I'm like, come on now, come on, really, really. And so now Jehovah's Witnesses
are basically doing the same thing. And so you have men who have been deacons or as Jehovah's
Witnesses refer to them as ministerial servants, 35, 40, 45, 50 years old. Now you get these young
quip of snappers. And I cannot imagine when you, there's a saying, you recall the account in the
Bible where the King, you know, his father passed, he took over. And instead of seeking out the advice
of the older men, he went to his buddies, you know, what should I do? And they was like, put your hand,
put the hammer down, put the hammer down. And so I cannot imagine what it's going to be like giving
these types of young men as much power as an elder has over people's lives. It is going to cause
havoc. I must say, I didn't know Jack Diddley's squat when I was 20. I mean, I thought I did.
I was so young. You know, when you look back hindsight's 2020, you know, like,
I didn't know nothing. And here I am educating and trying to teach couples who've been married 15
years and they're going through things I've never even dreamt that, you know, like, how do I deal
with this? I've never experienced this. I don't understand life. And yeah, so this is an interesting
point. It's interesting to know also the decline. It reminds me of how many people go to mass
Christmas Eve, you know, but they don't attend that they become more of like a tradition rather
than it being like a strict rigorous cult and maybe COVID forced loosened the grip in a way.
Oh, there's no question about in fact, as Jehovah's Witnesses, we actually used to poke fun and laugh
at other religions, because we would say that the church parking lot is filled on Christmas
celebration and Easter. And the rest of the year, they can't get anybody to go to church.
Our kingdom halls are filled. And now fast forward 25, 30 years, man, it's actually,
it's actually the same now. Yeah, but you have to also remember that the Jehovah's Witnesses,
um, there is an aging population. And when COVID came out, you know, they really saw the
how fragile the friends were from that angle. And you are when you when you would see people
that were actually doing the kingdom hall crashing, remember when they were doing the kingdom
hall crashes and stuff like that, you would look around. And this is way before COVID.
And they had kingdom halls were empty, you know, and then when you looked around,
you also saw a lot of elderly people at the meetings. So you could really see that they're
really struggling. And they had been they had already been, you know, like, combining kingdom
halls before COVID. So they were losing a lot of people. And maybe they had like four or five
congregations that were being combined into one. And a lot of the friends were complaining about
how far they had to drive to the meeting. And so we saw this before COVID, you know. So now that
these people were given an opportunity to stay home and be on a zoom call. And they no longer
had to drive, you know, that I mean, that was a really nice deal. You know, it really is,
it really is a nice deal. I'd like to ask, because your YouTube channel, right, your YouTube channel's
XJW critical thinker, we talked about this in the past, but we didn't really get to cover
every jot and tittle, of course. But I must ask, as far as the doctrines go, have there been any
cases maybe in the past year, year and a half since we've last recorded, that you would like to maybe
bring to my attention, like, here's this crazy case, maybe there's issues going on within
Jehovah's Witnesses. I don't know. Use your own imagination and come up with what, because I already
know they always have some crazy thing going on or someone who left and has a story about something.
Yeah. What do you start, right? One of the things that they have really been pushing,
I mean, really pushing is the governing body. They are setting up the governing body literally
to be Christ. I mean, you cannot get to Christ unless you go through them. And now that they have
the internet, they now are able to literally become like superstars. These individuals who serve in a
governing body now, they are literally like rock stars. When they were travel, you would have people
ask them to sign their Bibles as if they were a publisher of a book. And so this group of people,
unlike when I was coming along, they were very low-key. These guys, oh, they're like rock stars.
I mean, they are like rock stars. And so they have elevated themselves to such a status now.
It's going to be very, very interesting. And a lot of people are starting to see that,
and that's what's causing people to question. One of the things that we often say is that the
internet is a game changer. Let me just give you an example. There's a process in the Jehovah's
Witnesses known as a judicial committee. And this basically is an internal tribunal,
where if you committed a sin, they'll bring you in and then question you. And I mean,
they will question you down. And you can't take any notes. You can't write anything down.
You can't bring anybody along with you, basically. Whereas on the other side of the table,
they're just writing. They're just writing. And they'll use each other's questions that they ask
one another to you. The next guy will form his questions based on the last question. And so
many times people can't think that they get confused and they give the wrong answer. And
of course, they're basically trying to catch you in the lie. Well, what's happening is a lot of
people are starting to videotape their judicial committee case. And they're posting it to the
internet. And just recently, a circuit over searing meeting with some elders, they mentioned that
that people are coming into these judicial meetings, brothers, and they're videotaping and
they're putting up on the internet. So basically, they're going to be doing basically a patdown
almost. You got in the camera. Let me see. Let me see. Let me make sure you ain't got no camera yet.
And so this is the type of NC and I tell people all the time, this is the type. These are the
type of things that you need to stop and ask yourself the question. What is this? What is this
telling me? If you want to know if whether or not this is a high control group or cult, these are
the type of questions you need to ask when you see this type of behavior, because these are the
things that only high control groups would do to a person. Now, what do you do when you have
people that are going, these are the last of the last days of the last hour. I mean, you know,
this elder guy, whatever his name is, he's like, and we are in the final part of the final part
of the last hour. And I always like the mock is how he presents because I hear he's not really
like that in real life. But that apocalyptic, you know, fervor that we still hear them try to say,
has that dwindled since COVID? Are they trying to change the script anyway?
No. No. Yeah, you're right. Not at all. Not at all because they're okay. So here you have the pandemic
and then you have the Russia and the Ukraine war. And so they're really having fun with that one,
you know, and then to intertwine with what JT was saying earlier, I'd like to say that one of the
things that we've been noticing as well is individuals have been telling us about how
they feel they've been waking up to because the watchtower was saying, you need to believe or
listen to what we say, even if it doesn't sound right. So it's like blind faith. It's like, you
know, you're leading this group of people, we're going to tell you what to do, how to do it,
and don't question us. That's been waking up people and they've been emailing us telling us
about that because several people told us that's how they woke up because they were like, wait a
minute, this doesn't make any sense. And so then to like answer your question too, Derek, the thing
about the last of the last days, this is the only way this religion can survive is to be thinking
about, hey, we're in the last days. So here you have a pandemic on top of a pandemic because how
many other spin-off COVID diseases have come up since the original COVID came out. So it's like,
oh my God, it's a COVID and that's a COVID on top of a COVID and a war, right? So these people are
really using this fear to drive these people to stay in their seats at the hall or on a Zoom call.
Yeah, there are basically two camps that's developing among Jehovah's Witnesses. There's the
diehard. Every time they tell them that we're living the last days, anything that jumps off around
the world in terms of world events and geopolitical stuff, the witness gets that there's a camp that
just gets so excited. It's gonna be coming soon. Is there something's wrapping up? And then there's
the other camp and this is the growing camp where people are realizing y'all been saying this for
almost 150 years. It is clearly obvious that while the world may end, you absolutely do not know how
to read the signs. And that's where people are not getting excited. It's not scaring people.
When my mom became a witness back in the late 60s, early 70s, the 1975 issue was huge. And if you
look up any statistics and the watchtower has produced these statistics, they're online in
different locations, you look at the growth. Jehovah's Witnesses had the most explosive growth
that this organization has ever had leading up to 1975. After that, and especially now,
the growth is just minimal. And when you consider there are literally countries around the world,
China, certain parts of India, just all around the world where people have really never even
talked to Jehovah's Witnesses more than five minutes, it shows that their statements of
well, the world's gonna end when God has, the preaching work has been done around the world.
Well, there are places people might see a Jehovah every four or five years. And so,
all of a sudden, they have witnesses who are in other countries going around every day. I mean,
I remember when I was in New York, when I was in the Congress, I was assigned to, we literally
knocked on the same doors every weekend, which means the people in New York City were getting
the opportunity to learn about Christ every weekend. And somebody over in India, they might
learn about Christ every four or five years when a witness might swing through the town.
So, how is God gonna bring the world to the end with such an unbalance of people having
opportunities? And so, the message that the witnesses give, it simply doesn't have the weight.
And the problem is, is the internet. You can check anything now.
Is that the number one enemy of the Jehovah's Witnesses at this point, the internet?
Yeah. I mean, for any high-control group or code, the inability to control the flow of
information is the worst thing that can happen to them. That's why they have to shut you down.
Every Jehovah's Witness knows you can ask all the questions you want. You just can't question
the answers after they gave it to you. And so, it shuts people down. If you start asking too many
questions, folks start looking out the corner of their eye. Because every witness knows there are
certain questions you just cannot ask and be able to maintain your standing. And we used to tell
people all the time, okay, now, brother, you've been given the answer. Go sit down and wait on
God now. And for most people today, they realize there ain't no answer, man. You just know what
you're talking about. There ain't no real answer you're talking about. Did you want to answer that,
lady? See? Well, I was going to mention, you know, when I tell you, we get so many emails,
we get a lot. And I've talked to quite a few people. One of the things I'd like to say is about
this COVID shot. A lot of the Jehovah's Witnesses are starting to, like, there's two different
camps in the Jehovah's Witness religion right now. There's the people who are getting shots,
and there's people that's not getting shots. And I was talking to actually two people this
past week. That was their wake up call moment because they felt like the watchtower was trying to
get them to get the shot. And they don't like that. They don't like the organization telling
them what to do. So this one brother said, in his congregation, it's like the haves and the
have nots. And he said that the brothers in the congregation are telling people, if you don't have
the shot, you can't go and gather with these brothers over here. So he said, it's a pretty
bad thing that's happening right now in the organization with the shot. And so we also had
a friend of ours tell us, I want to say upwards of maybe 600 elders have been removed because they
were talking against the shot. And so it was like the watchtower society is really losing its grip
on its members because there are people that are not standing on their side. And it is kind of weird.
It is weird to me personally, right? So me as someone who's a big fan of science and learning
like about the advancements of things that might help us and whatever, you would think like they're
very conspiracy minded based on the Bible. You would think the organization would be like against
this drug that's being produced and whatnot. And they would think this is part of the end of the
world, right? Like it's kind of weird that they can't make their minds up on what they need to do
here. Well, it's not quite like that. This is the way it works in this religion. As a Jehovah's
Witness, if you as an individual have to take the hit, for example, you the little four, five,
six, seven-year-old child in school who got to go down to the office and be laughed at and poke fun
at because you wouldn't eat the cupcake, then you have to take that. You have to take that beat
down. But if it's the organization that's going to take the hit, the watchtower has a very interesting
way of changing the rules. The watchtower doesn't take the hit. The watchtower came out with the,
for example, in Australia. The Jehovah's Witnesses came out initially saying, you know, we're not
going to be joining this scheme of y'all, the churches. We're not, you know, we're not doing that.
And then all of a sudden, it was mentioned that we're going to take our tax exempt status. Okay,
hold up. Hold up. Wait, wait, wait. How much we need to pay for this thing? And so all of a sudden,
they change. The same thing happened in the country of Bulgaria. And so the watchtower does not want
to risk his status. So all of a sudden, they make their members take their stand for the truth. The
watchtower can change overnight if it's going to cost them something. They have no problem
revising the rules if they are going to take the hit. I'd like to play a little game with both of
you if we can before we go. This is, this is, I think this is a great thought experiment. And I
know the kind of down to earth people that you are, it's probably subjective on your response to these.
But because you've had probably more than what I'm going to ask for numbers here. What would you
say are the top three or five? I'll give you three to five. If you can come up with five, cool. But
at least we can come up with three. The top three to five reasons people are leaving the Jehovah's
Witness, the whole cult. Okay, but you can think of whatever order you want to bring them up as is
fine. Three to five reasons and you know, we'll go like, you can both tackle the same issue too. So
you might start talking about it and the lady C has an idea on it or vice versa. It doesn't matter.
Top three to five. You want to give, you want to give one?
Well, I would be willing to say that they're tired. Yeah. I mean, when we were going and we left over
20 years ago and I was just tired. I remember walking into our apartment one day and I just
said to myself, I don't think I could keep doing this. I'm just tired. Can you imagine if I was
still there walking around blocks, knocking on doors, looking for 9 11 happened, all these other
things that's happened up into the pandemic and thinking the end's going to come, seeing all your
family getting older and dying and all the friends of the congregation, they're thinking they're
going to live through Armageddon. And then all of a sudden you're going to funeral after funeral,
nothing's happening. It doesn't seem like life is getting any better. You're, you're broke,
you're tired, you're poor, you know, people just tired. Yeah. That's the bottom line, man.
Witnesses are tired. You've been carrying a message to your neighbors. Let me give you a
perfect example. Like myself and so many other people right now, so many Jehovah's Witnesses
are now moving into the fifth generation, the fifth generation, man. It's important to understand
that what makes Jehovah's Witnesses unique as a religious denomination is that they are a time
sensitive religious group. And when you are a time sensitive religious group, that means certain
things have to happen within a timeframe that you have said are going to happen. And when those
things keep failing to happen, people begin to realize, y'all a joke, man. I've had people say
to witnesses, um, I remember my grandmama used to study y'all. My grandmama used to study it with
y'all, y'all come to the house and y'all were talking about the world ending. I got grandkids now.
And so people begin to realize it. And so the actual individual Jehovah's Witness,
he wants to live his life. He wants to enjoy all the normal things. The watchtower has taught
Jehovah's Witnesses that you cannot live a normal life in this system. The watchtower has stated
that you cannot live a normal life. And what's a normal life? Just enjoying the cares of the day.
That's really all it is. The witness is on a hamster wheel, man. He's on a merry-go-round
that he cannot get off. And people are getting tired of the ride and they're jumping off.
And that's really, I think that's probably the number one thing is that they're just physically
tired. The second thing is the teachings. You can't teach something as being from God.
Enforced by excommunicating, disfellowshipping, cutting people off from their family, their friends,
everybody they've known, because you can't have people who are your friends who are not Jehovah's
Witnesses. You cannot find a Jehovah's Witness who was standing in front of a group of elders
and a person stands beside them and they say, this right here is John. He's one of my best friends,
known him for 30 years. The first question those elders are going to ask you, so John,
what congregation you go to? Carragation? Carragation? No. Jehovah's Witness can never
introduce someone who's not a witness to their other witness as a friend because they'll be in
trouble. Jehovah's Witnesses don't have friends. And so they want to just live life. And man,
that's one of the things that we are finding. So they're just running out of time. And like
my wife mentioned, the big thing, man, is they're growing old. My wife and I, we just buried our
moms. My mom died in December. My wife, her mom died in January. They was witnesses from the 60s.
They was never supposed to grow old. That's what they told them. They're now laying in their graves.
And that's what's happening to witnesses. And so the younger people, like they've seen their
fathers be elders and literally die, just lose their health, trying to keep running for the
watch tower, doing this. And most of the young guys, they're like, I don't want to do that. I'm
not interested in that. And that's why they're running such a shortage of quote unquote, qualified
men to serve in positions. Nobody wants to do that stuff. And so they're getting tired,
the doctrines are falling apart. Yeah, everybody know, love your neighbor. Don't steal. Don't
rob your neighbor. Everybody got those teachings. But a lot of the core teachings, a lot of the
things that witnesses built their life around, they see as not coming to fruition.
Yeah, like you were saying, JT, about the doctrines, I'm going to go back and double click on that.
We left because the doctrines. Yeah. Can you tell us those doctrines again?
The 1914, people were leaving because of that. They were leaving because of the overlapping
generation. There were people that were leaving about the child sexual abuse. A lot of people
watched the Australian Rail Commission. Some people watched the Leah Remini, you know, the
one on oxygen. Then there were just people that were just saying that one lady said that she was
just getting tired of the JW broadcasting. And she felt like JW broadcasting really brought
the watchtower full front and center stage as to who they were. Because she said it wasn't
nothing but a cult. The way they have those dramas, those videos, and they're trying to
use it to manipulate you, how to treat people like at the assembly when they gave the
illustration of the young girl who was disfellowshipped and she called home.
And the mother just looked at her phone and didn't answer. And a lot of people just got
blown away by that. So, I mean, it's just little things that people are looking at. And it's like
a group of people over here are looking at this issue, different people over there looking at
that issue. Right. And they're just putting the pieces together. And they just go on the internet,
Google Jehovah's Witnesses. And I mean, once you do that, it's like you're in the ballpark now.
So, this is another question, I guess, in the vein of this, because we could go,
I'd like to go into some just multiple issues that we find doctrine wise. And like you talk
about this unique generational thing, I don't think that's been emphasized enough. I don't think
people watching quite get it, right? It's that serious. But for people who are leaving the
job as witnesses, I guess one of the things I would want to bring to the front is they're not
making this up in their head. Sure, they are to some extent, but they're getting this from the
Bible. Okay. So, they're reinterpreting. But sure, my point is, I relate to the Jehovah's Witness.
I was a young, premilled dispensational boy who thought the second coming of Jesus was going to
happen in his lifetime. I had dreams that the heavens turned to fire, like the whole sky was
on fire and it was falling down out of the sky and it was coming toward me. The whole earth was
on fire. I closed my eyes and said, Jesus, at the last second, and I opened my eyes and there's this
man with a feathered pen writing in a big old book and his head's not turned toward me and he's
just writing and he says, Derek, everything's going to be okay. You're in a better place now.
And I felt like I was warm inside of a mother's bosom. That's the only thing I can describe it
as, right? This is in my dream. Then I had another dream that lightning bolts were striking and I was
sitting on the front porch watching a storm and the lightning bolt struck me and I started getting
sucked up and floating up toward heaven, like the rapture. I'm looking around and there's all
these people attached to lightning bolts floating up. And I believe that this was going to happen.
My wife had dreams that she was left behind and I was gone and because I was so serious about
this thing. And I was reading the New Testament because the whole New Testament says,
it's going to happen soon. Except 2,000 years later, a cult develops and says,
it's going to happen soon. And they just keep the same motto.
The witnesses, they have literally taken words that everybody knows has meaning. When someone says
something, I'll see you very soon. It's closely upon us. People understand that that is a time frame.
And I often ask Jehovah's Witnesses when I talk to them, I says, when you use such words as soon,
quickly coming around the corner, you're talking about time frames. And I'll just pin them down.
I'll say now, as humans, we only have certain types of time frames, seconds, minutes, hours,
days, weeks, months. Tell me what time frame, according to your denomination, are you working
with? Are you talking about weeks, months, years? And at that point, they'll say, well,
we don't really, I said, whoa, you can't use the word soon and not have a time frame.
Nobody thinks of soon as being 37 years. I'll stop by the house soon. That's not taking 37 years to
people. And so you, and so you have, and that's the challenge that religious belief systems have.
They will take well understood words, common words. And you guys remember when the Bible was
written, the Bible was not written to intellectuals. It was written to people with farmers. So these
people had a basic understanding of when someone said, I'm going to stop by your house soon.
They did not think years. I'm sorry. And so religious belief systems must redefine
what these words mean. And that's where they get into trouble at. Let me give you a perfect
example. You asked about a teaching. I'm going to throw this out there because it's kind of unique.
The watchtower is playing and I like, and I use this loosely. They're playing with trying to
introduce a new teaching, one that they have rejected for years and dogged other folks for
teaching. And that's called the rapture. Recently, the watchtower has put forth the idea that all
members of the governing body and all those of the anointed are going to be taken to heaven.
And as a result, regular brothers are going to be left in charge. Now that means all of them are
going to have to die or some of them are going to have to be taken to heaven with a rapture,
because they're not old. Each year they do that memorial celebration. When I left,
it was 7,000 people and the number was supposed to go down because they're dying, going to heaven.
Last year, it was like 20,000 people are drinking and eating the bread and wine.
The number is going up. More folks going to heaven than ever before.
And so it just reverses their teaching. It creates a problem. So the witnesses are literally playing
with trying to figure how they can teach this rapture teaching and it fits. I mean, it's really
amazing. When I first heard, I'm like, oh my goodness, they're trying to teach the rapture,
because that's what many denominations teach that God will snatch people up to heaven.
And that's the only way they will snatch the governing body up. And those are the anointed
and leave somebody behind to be put in charge. Because what they've been doing recently is they've
been grooming these other individuals who are not members of the governing body. They're not,
quote unquote, anointed. And so these people are going to be left here on the earth to run things
while the governing body, the faithful and the sweet slave, goes off to heaven. So it's kind
of interesting how, you know, and so for a lot of people, when they hear them just start making
up stuff, they're like, here they go again. Just stick to what the Bible does. They don't make up
stuff. And that's where a lot of people are really becoming frustrated because people recognize this
stuff is made up. This stuff is made up. And so it's going to be interesting because those are
the type of things that's literally driving people out. They're like, I'm telling these guys.
It's pretty bad. I think it's pretty bad because when we were in, I remember this sister
and it was pre 2000. And she was having some health issues. And she said, I know the end
is going to be here by the year 2000. And so she says she was going to just hold off from
having her surgery because she wouldn't have to worry about that. And that's been what 22.
We're in the year 2022 now. So I wonder where she is with her situation. And a lot of people were
just, it was just pretty bad, you know? Yeah. The teachings of Jehovah's Witnesses, what they do,
they're taught in such a way that the typical Jehovah's Witness cannot not literally mean this,
man. They cannot see more than five at the most 10 years. If you have two Jehovah's Witnesses
talking, you may have a young brother, he's talking to an older Jimmy and will say,
Brother Davis, let me ask you a question. You know, things are just so bad. Do you think this
system can go on for another five or 10 years? I'm going to tell you, young man, I'm not trying to
say the income, but I just don't see how it's going to go. I just don't see how it's going to work.
And so as a result, the Jehovah's Witness plans his life that way. He doesn't think in terms of
retiring. He doesn't think in terms of getting old, needing Medicare, needing, needing insurance.
He doesn't see that. And so after five years go by, he just readjusts again for five more years,
five more years. And next thing you know, he reaches the age of my parents, who are now,
you know, in their 80s, reaching their 80s, when they started out, they was in it, you know, 27,
28 years old. And so it really, and that's what really is messing up a lot of witnesses, man.
I mean, a lot of witnesses, really messed up a lot of witnesses. What were you saying, lady?
I was going to say, so like you talk about, you see people leaving, but you also got to remember
that there's a lot of people that are never going to leave. There's a lot of people that's
going to be grounded, rooted at the Kingdom Hall, because they are your superstitious people.
They are your people that's thinking, Hey, I really don't think that I really do believe I'm
going to take my chances with the religion. They're going to take their chances and say,
I would rather stay here thinking that Jehovah is going to be with the Jehovah is with the watch
tower and live my life out like this, then be over here with you. Yeah, well put. If I were to
turn this in a way of asking you both, you know, your goal is to critically analyze and
to give people to think critically about the Jehovah's Witnesses. You're not funneling people
down a path. Hey, join our cult. Well, leave that cult to join our cult. But it is good to give people
a community in a sense of welcomeness that you're not alone in this journey out of this harmful,
high control group that we call the Jehovah's Witnesses. So what do you both do to help those
who are trying to leave? Do you have some sense of community? How do you go about helping them?
I know you don't tell them what to believe. There's probably people who are spiritual.
There's people who are probably atheists, more skeptical like me. You know, it varies, but they
all have one thing in common, and they've been harmed by a high control group or they're sick
and tired. Maybe they weren't harmed and they just realized they've been duped. Yeah. What do you do
about it? I feel like whenever I take a call or email from someone, I find that we're looking for
ledge to land on. They're afraid. People don't know. They don't have any friends outside of
the religion. They have a community that they're looking back at that they feel was strong.
Now it's like I need to meet someone. I just took a call the other night, a young lady.
She's trying to get out of a bad relationship and it's pretty bad. So the whole idea was I made
a few phone calls and I tried to like find people that live in her area or just because she's not
looking for no monetary support or nothing like that. She just needs to talk to people that are
already out of the religion and they need to know that that it's okay that she's not by herself.
She wants to talk to other people so she can begin to make friends outside of the religion.
So this is the kind of stuff we're doing. We're bridging the gap, bringing people together.
I call myself an accidental coach. Sometimes I'm not a coach. I know there's a lot of people
who they've left the religion and now they're all some kind of coach. Now I do give advice to people
but I'm not a coach but I'm not trained to do this but this is what you might want to think about.
No belief system. I'm not trying to give them a belief system. I'm not trying to give them
a speech about how to live their life. But I just give them the tools that they need to survive and
a lot of people the tools that they really need is getting a job. When I first left the religion
I was given the tool of education and then I started saying you know what when we left the religion
I spent a lot of years with my head in a book. So my new tool is not like go to college. I'm not
telling people that anymore. I'm telling people try to find a job that you can get that's going to pay
you some money that you don't need a college degree because sometimes you don't want to spend a lot of
time you know going to school putting your head in a book and then I read this article out of the UK
that said that a lot of companies over in the UK weren't necessarily hiring people with degrees
because they realized that people who have a degree doesn't necessarily mean that you want
that person to hire them to work for your company. But it could be also people that just got universal
knowledge in other areas and they're good employees too. So now my new thing is you know for people
that want to get their degree you know I'll show them you know what I did how I did it how I navigated
the system you know try to find your resources to get your your schooling paid for in this way
and that way. But then I also encourage people to look for other to look for jobs that don't have a
degree or to get people together to network maybe there's somebody that might know somebody
that's working at a company or something and they can refer you you know so try to do some
networking with people because a lot of people they really cannot afford time wise or money
to go to school. So I'm trying to work with people like that.
Wow. One of the things we encourage people is really to start building a new clientele of friends.
The organization sets you up for failure. They tell you to cut off everybody that you know
in terms of real relationship. Witnesses are cordial to everybody because they want to
preach to you so that's just by default. They can be very nice to people but you don't have any
relationships with anyone outside the organization. Any Jehovah's Witness who has any meaningful
relationship is going to get dog. He'll be looked down upon so if he does he has to keep it a secret.
There are people I have witnesses who say well I got people I'm here but don't nobody know and you
can't tell anybody so please stop just be quiet and sit down and they're talking crazy. When you
can't introduce your friends and everybody around you that means that you're running you're running
you're running afraid. That's what we're talking about. Non-Jehovah's Witnesses can introduce
their best friends to anybody they're talking to. A Jehovah's Witness can. So you have to start
building a new clientele of friends because you will be cut short when you leave. There is no
question about it and it is swift. I mean it is swift man. We know people they make the announcement
at the Kingdom Hall. They got four or five thousand contacts on you know Facebook on in 24 hours man
it's a 90% dropped off because they just send the word around. He got this fellowship. I'm friend
unfriend unfriend you delete delete delete and and so you know unsubscribe and so um that's the way
it works. It's so messed up. Chief is messed up chief and and so and so the reason we tell people
this is because and this is what hurts us so bad man I'm gonna teach you this this is just so painful
is that we get the we too many times we get the phone call after. Yeah what can I do now
can I back it up can I reverse it. No this is a one-way trip. When you take your position at
your leave this organization the witness is already trained how to respond and that is to shut down
like an ATM machine and they will do it and they will do it swiftly. And we're talking about family
friends folks you've known for 20 years they will cut you to the bone. Oh yeah JT and the other thing
I wanted to mention too is I tell people to to seek therapy. Oh yeah because a lot of people
you know before you get to the getting a new job and getting education you know you got to get
yourself together you know um so that you can um you know mentally be able to thrive out here.
You know because people have been the watchtower has done a number on people. Yeah it's abusive
mentally at least you know. But the thing is when they when you when you let people so when
you get people together in a round table or you because we we've had um like some some private
chats where we were people wanted to get together and we had like a meet-up and we got like 40 people
one time on a private chat and it was like they could not believe the number of people that was
going through. That was like a fair that's like a group therapy session. It was like an it was
like an eye opener for us. It was like oh my god these were active Jehovah's Witnesses or
ex Jehovah's Witnesses that just left. Yeah wow. We did it a couple years ago around Christmas time.
Yeah we were just amazed at the impact as people told their stories you like oh man
and so you can really see that a lot of us have been damaged by this and now they're they're just
at a caveat. There's also another group of people and we just did a video on this group.
They're known as PMOs, P-I-M-O you know physically and mentally out right here.
Yeah and that group of people it man I tell you you really feel for those because everybody's
circumstances are different. Like someone someone was saying I think you're cow if you just don't
go ahead and just get out and I posed a question to the person I said let me ask you a question.
I understand exactly how you feel. I said but once you start talking to the number of people
that we've talked to you kind of begin to see that everybody can't wear the same kind of shoes.
You are a senior citizen. You live in a senior citizen home that is predominantly
filled with a lot of Jehovah's Witnesses. Most of the caretakers are also Jehovah's Witnesses.
You have nowhere to go. What do you do? Wow. Okay you talk to me now talk to me okay. I can't
I would BS my way to get in my next meal that's what I would do. So these are the same these are
the same people. Yes Lord. These are the same people who have to change you in the bed. Yeah.
So this particular person is not in the same identical spot that a 21 year old who just rolled
up out of the house and he's moving in with some of his his boys. Okay it's not the same. Yeah. And
so when and see that that kind of takes me back to being in Watchtower. You see as one of Jehovah's
Witnesses we were all told the same thing was a solution. All told the same thing was a solution.
When I was an elder man I went to elders school and I remember it was 900 elders in
Alexandria Virginia. The instructor said brothers would you like to be able to deal with 85 90%
of every problem you got in the congregation when it comes to the friends and you can look you
can see all the elders like yeah I'm sure what he's just take out your pen and write this down.
And so you see everybody got a pin out they wait for some some some some some some some
manner from heaven or something and he said now these are the questions you want to ask.
Are you regular at the meeting's brother and if the brother says no you said this could be
probably problem right there. Are you regular out in field service knocking on doors on a regular
basis. If the person says no this could be where your problem is. Are you keeping up with the
reading of all the magazines and the books that the society the branches sending out for us.
If you're not keeping up brother this could and you can see the elders in the room like oh lord
please I thought you were going to tell us something man please. I got one better for you.
I got one better for you. You you were at an elders meeting. I don't know where you were at
at the circuit assembly when they gave that same talk because I remember it was like I was at a
I had went to this seminar for my job and when they asked me to open up my notebook
and they wanted me to write something down I was like oh I'm writing it down it was something new
it was something I could use it was really good stuff right. So then a couple weeks later we had
our circuit assembly. I'm thinking I'm having a flashback right. Oh get your pin out y'all.
So then all of a sudden it was like the same questions that JT just got through running down
over here. That was the same thing that the brother said from the platform and I forgot to tell that
and I remember because we were almost about leaving at the time maybe about maybe two years
we were going to be leaving another two years we didn't know at the time right. Yeah yeah.
When he when he when I started writing that down and I got to the second one
I threw my pen on my notepad and looked away. I was like I'm done. I'm so done. It's the same
script. It's the same script. And you know this is one thing I was going to mention on our way out
of this is I hope you'll come back. This is I always cherish these conversations with both of you.
I can't tell you how much fun it is honestly. It is so much fun. But you know where these ideas
come from. You know I like to educate people and explain to them if you read the New Testament
and you actually read it Jesus says that if you don't hate your father mother sister brother yeah
and come follow me in one of the Gospels he goes so far as to say they're not my sister my mother
my brother these in the kingdom see so when you take the words of Jesus to bank yeah you're going
to end up with high control cult mentality groups yeah and so you know I hate to break it to people
who want to just be spiritual and not be in a cult but if you're following Jesus
what do you say to that yeah and see and to add insult to injury is when you take whatever Jesus
said and then because this is what the watchtower does and they're good at this they get to add
additional stuff they get to define what makes a good Christian and this is where this is where
religious belief systems in general get into trouble they will add additional things for example
we mentioned about counting time how Jehovah's Witnesses have to write and record the time that
they turn in that's an interesting concept because when when they first started this so many Jehovah's
Witnesses they bulked at this like what you may have to report to the church how much time I spend
talking to people about God you're crazy they wrote an article about why you need to turn in your time
and throughout this article it was called the article was basically on requirements of God
requirements of God so once you can convince a person that they and in the Bible I like the way
the Bible mentioned what Paul says you know people will deliver you up and kill you and they think
they're done a service to God there is nothing more dangerous than a man or woman who believes
that their actions are sanctioned by God because you can get some crazy actions from people and you
come up with some crazy teachings when they think and they teach that we got this from God therefore
you got to do it and that's kind of what the Jehovah's Witnesses have done over the years
they have so many teachings that if you look at them in the backyard in the trash pile you're like
well y'all said all this stuff was from God well we had to change and that's really the whole
thing because this this this organization man it literally makes up teachings on the fly this
reminds me of Muhammad you know from what one of the stories I heard is he saw I think it was his
nephew by marriage or something's wife nude like he got a glimpse of her and was like oh she's
smoking so then he had a revelation and he was like you know God told me uh she's supposed to be
mine and married so he ends up divorcing the nephew divorces her so he can marry her okay like you
start making up crap on the way and the sad thing is people you know there is no critical thinking
none this is what you're trying to produce on youtube so if you don't go and do that go subscribe
to the youtube channel your brain's gonna rot out I don't know right you gotta go subscribe
right now uh join the cult now I'm just kidding if you're used to joining cults anyway you might
know right seriously though I want everybody to please go subscribe to your channel um you both
are amazing people and I had a blast today I know there's so much more we could really talk again
we'll do it again we'll do it again sooner than later yeah you know we tell people people ask
about you know people following you and listening I said we see you gotta keep in mind man that's what
got us in trouble to start with we were following someone so I tell you don't be following me you
better check this stuff out for yourself and uh that's what got us because that's what got us in
trouble we did we were following someone we didn't check stuff out so I'm telling people don't be
following me check it out that's all we encourage people to do do your homework and the greatest
resource that you can use is the watchtower's own published material that's the greatest resource
I personally feel like the Jehovah's Witnesses get a bad um issue that they deal with because
you were in a religion that told you what you could and could not do what you could eat what you
could drink what you could how you dress and so forth but I still believe that in life we still
need mentors and we still need guidance from our friends and I see so many people doing things
and I'm not you know I I don't want to get into that um telling people what to do either
but sometimes if somebody getting ready to run into a brick wall they need to know that
and I feel like the Jehovah's Witness community after they leave they just let people run into
these brick walls because they say well I'm not going to do that anymore I'm not telling people
what to do but what they don't realize is that's not what you're doing it's like being on a job
if you're on a job a lot of times let's say you're a new person and you come to a job
and then you have a mentor and that person is helping you navigate the new place you're working
at now bob you might want to be careful going over here you might want to be this you know they may
they may give you little things that you need to be careful for or careful of but it's not like oh
I came from this other company over here and that company was telling me everything to do so
I don't want to hear nothing he got to say so you know in life we still need guidance you know
so I feel like that's what's missing in the ex community is the guidance that people they're
not getting that and I and I don't mean the guidance about going to church I'm talking about
you know like if me and another friend and I see her dating somebody and I see that this guy might
not be good for her I should be able to say that I should be able to say look be careful watch out
what you're doing and the person shouldn't be saying we can do this now I can sleep with 10
minute night I don't care right you don't want to give people information to help them so that they
stay safe you know you know kind of stuff that that we're dealing with now you see what happens is
because you're so restrained you now have freedom and it's they go off the hinges they go on top
man I'm gonna take me some folks just go off the deep end man and you're like and then when you
talk to them they're like yeah I know it it is crazy ain't it JT yeah it was man it really was
yeah but that's sad because a lot of paths you know religion or not a lot of it is self-destructive
this is why we need a place where critical thinking can take place and you give people
like you said a landing a ledge to land on something to land on so my final question for
both of you if it was not even a question it's a statement and there's someone out there who's
watching this they're hiding behind their screen because they can't go to the elders they can't go
to the church a word of encouragement to them they're in it they might be pimos they may not be
pimos they may be people physically in mentally out they are not believers but they're they're
physically stuck what would be your encouragement since you just did a video on this and that's
a tough one to that person to that elderly person in that home or that person who's in a marriage
in their entire life their children and everything they go and BS their way through the services
because they love them even more than than this whole ideology what are your words of encouragement
to the pimos in the world before i let you go lady see you want you want want to that's a tough
that that is a tough one depending on who you're talking to because if you're talking to a young
ster that's 14 years old well you got four years before you can actually leave the home so you
could begin to educate yourself go on the internet learn about different um occupations you might want
to get involved in do better in your schooling try to get a degree so you go to college stuff
like that so the younger person is easy the older person that's going to be a little bit more work
to do um i i would just say go along with the program that you're in turn in that field service
time even though you ain't talking to nobody don't don't tell people don't don't try to to push
your what you're learning on other people because all it's going to do is um it's going to shine the
spotlight on you and make it harder for you but enjoy this new freedom that you've got knowing
that mentally you know if you go to the meeting and you're not really sitting there and you're all
there nobody really cares about that anymore you know so there's there's some there's some things
that you can be freed from because you don't because you realize it's not the truth but and if you
feel like you got a plan your escape you know don't just try to get up and just go somewhere
make sure you get a plan of action you know um the elderly people i i just don't know what i would
say i would just you know try to enjoy the life that you have left you know you may not be able
to leave where you live at you know but you can certainly enjoy different things because i'm sure
your your spouse might not be sitting in the room with you the whole time you know so there's a lot
i mean it's really um a lot of people a lot of different scenarios and different people that
you're dealing with so um the biggest thing is you're mentally freed from from from realizing that
no one's gonna gonna destroy you at Armageddon because you didn't read the latest magazine
god is not gonna punish you because you didn't get an hour in field service you know all of the
Jehovah's Witness rhetoric about being active and being at meetings and stuff like that that
doesn't apply anymore so just knowing that you don't have to do that when you're going through your
actions of hey i'm gonna be here i'm gonna show up some people said they show up to the meetings
and they're reading a book on their ipad when they when they when they were like going in in person
you know and so they would show up and act like they were doing things but they really
weren't indulging you know thank you thank you so much jt um i i think it's important to to realize
the fog fear obligation and guilt um you now can lift that veil of fear you now can lift that
veil of guilt and obligation um the most important thing i think is to know that you're not alone
the organization literally sets it up so that you feel that you are by yourself and when you're
by yourself you have nothing to turn to no one to turn to no help and that's really what the internet
has done it has allowed people to see you remember the story animal farm with other animals and the
other side didn't know what was going on they thought this net well now you see that there are
people on the other side of the farm and they're mad at the farmer as well and so and so that's
really the thing is that you now can realize you are not alone you're not going crazy because see
they make you think the way the organization is set up is designed to make you think that you are
the problem i remember man you you you couldn't understand a magazine you you have an article
you study you couldn't get it it was because you spursly weak you're not spursely minded
that's why you can't understand the deep things of god two years later throw that magazine out
and say oh we ain't teaching that no more so the real reason you couldn't understand was because
it was foolish to start with now you understand this now makes all the sense in the world and so
no longer having to feel that you are alone and like you know ladies he mentioned you now
can lift these burdens off you even if you physically can't leave mentally you don't have
to worry about that i got two hours this month put me down put me down for two hours two magazine
and move on roll keep it rolling um and so that's really the the thing uh everybody's
circumstances is so different and and there's some people unfortunately we have seen and we know
they may not ever be able to get out because of their circumstances but they still can have
they still can find joy in knowing that at least i know i'm not doing something that's
destroying me and my relationship with god because that's you know that's what that's what
bothers people man they think that the god gonna get mad at them and when you find out god don't
care about no two hours a month you don't care about no magazines gonna get thrown in trash in
six months you don't care about that stuff that is a relief i tell you all the time you know you
can see you can see you're on the way and read the newspaper on Saturday morning you gotta go knock
on doors in the winter no more you know so that's the kind of stuff that just means so much to me
and that we talk to people man they're like jt is just so nice to be late in the day Saturday morning
and be spending time with the family and do stuff that's what people want to do and that's what people
enjoy doing it's just that simple just that simple and i want to say this one thing what jt said
give them the two hours because i'm hearing this too much i'm just i'm hearing people say i'm pimo
and the brother called my husband and wanted to know why i had not turned in field service time
the one thing that i have noticed about witnesses is no one is surveilling you to see what door you
knocked on all they want is the time just give them the time yeah give them the two hours give them
five hours yeah it's so amazing man the elders will not call and this was so amazing the elders
will not call your sister johnson calls and see how you're doing you feel okay they will not call
you to check on how you're doing right but when the end of the month come i need your time sister i
need you and it's like you ain't calling me all month you need to ask about my kids no
all you want some time we've had people who have been in the hospital man in the hospital sick and
the elders call i understand you in the hospital gotta get your time sister but this was another
five years ago and he said when his grandmother was on her death bed that's the one her death
taking her last breath the elder came in there and said do you got did you put it in time and
he said he said i can't make this up he said i can't make this up she was drawing her last breath
and the brother came in how much time you got how much time you know we can make sure that it goes
into the yearbook if you just tell me how much time you got i can make your short i can make
your time just count it you know this is kind of like i'm using a bad analogy here but just to
give an analogy it reminds me of when the roman emperors were killing christians you know for not
or at least they weren't bending to lighting a candle for the moment you know we're gonna kill you
right i'm gonna light that candle you know what i'm saying and then go bow about my way and just
enjoy the rest of my day i'm not about to get killed because you want to tell me i gotta light
a candle that candle didn't mean nothing if paul tells you you can eat whatever and that demons
don't mean nothing and you know like come on like do you really think he's gonna care like just like
the dang candle you know what i mean hey man as one as one witness told me he says i'm gonna take
him i'm taking my chance god he's known to forgive so it ain't worth it that's amazing you know that
is a wonderful point if the if the organization is telling you the end is near and they're not telling
the truth on that yeah okay at what point do you have to be so yes morally obligated to give them
these exact two i didn't really get any time in this month and i'm gonna stay stay on my right now
if you're ready to get the heat ready and get the heat but if you're trying to be pimo and keep
whatever because you know it like like with jt and lady c and my question specifically was
you're not just pimo and you could just leave like there is detrimental repercussions to it
what's more important to you and that's the decision you need to make yeah thank you jt
hey man it's always good always good on your program yeah man thanks for inviting us back on
we appreciate it oh you i hope we'll come back soon and i mean soon in the real sense
is round the corner man round the corner around the corner you know in a couple thousand years
the last of the last of the last days we are living in the last of the what thank you so much
hey man take care of yourself take care of the family as well i will go subscribe to their youtube
channel and never forget me
so
You
