Help MythVision keep bringing you material by becoming a Patreon member as well as PayPal.
Like, share, subscribe, and comment.
We are MythVision.
Welcome back ladies and gentlemen, your host.
The Case Against Miracles, John W. Loftus.
To Derek, with this book, the case is closed.
I love that intro that you gave me in this book.
I recommend anyone who's on a serious journey and really wanting to figure out what is going
on and why all the miraculous claims of all the world views are being used, how to deal
with these ideas, and specifically your chapter I want to focus on today.
John W. Loftus, he was a pastor.
You went to school, you have degrees in this particular field of Christianity, you have
experience, and it seems like you're wearing what appears to me to be a Christian cross.
I like this.
I found it at, you know, one of these vendor places and I looked at it closely and it looked
like a cross, but it looked like it could be something else.
I wasn't sure, so it wasn't too expensive.
I bought it and I asked people online and I said, well, you know, what is this?
I expected a lot of them to say, well, it's a cross.
Well, it comes to find out it's an Indonesian sword.
It's a replica of an Indonesian sword because of how it weighs back and forth.
And what it is, it's not a cross, it's that, and they developed this so that when they
slice people, I don't know why it's so morbid, but it ended up being morbid so I wear it because
people might think it's a cross and I get to explain it.
That when they thrust it in some poor sap's chest, it cuts a wider swath because it's
not straight.
How ingenious of a little weapon of war that it was created somewhere else other than the
crusades or, you know, the Christian empire.
Wow.
Is that your little camera?
Is that all the good weapons at one time?
I was going to say, that's your counter apologetics right there.
That's your way of like, ask me about my cross, please.
Right.
It's a little something, you know, just a little jab, if you will.
And the poor chap that asked, goodness gracious, bumping into you randomly on the street, they
don't even know what they're up against.
So ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to go down in the description.
I was just looking on Amazon this morning, guys, let me cover a few things here.
The case against miracles, you can get it on ebook for $9.99.
I got a printed version.
I like hard copy.
That's just me, but you can get it for $9.99.
Why I became an atheist.
I got this.
He's on audible too, by the way.
If you're like me and you like to listen to books, he explains, what a journey, John.
I don't want to get caught up in that, but what a journey.
Christianity is not great.
Christianity in light of science.
The end of Christianity, the Christian delusion guys, he, um, he was under William Lane Craig,
if I'm not mistaken, John, please, and it's okay that I call you John.
Yes.
Okay.
He was my major professor for my final master's degree as a THM at Trinity Evangelical Divinity
School.
And, um, you know, I, I, I took half of my hours under him for that program.
Wow.
You know, we, we became close friends too at that time.
That's good.
I'm glad.
And I suspect you guys are decent to one another, even today with different worldviews.
Decent, I'll say, but he doesn't want to acknowledge my presence.
And, uh, he said some things about me that, uh, you know, he has, that he has to say,
you know, I suppose to, uh, to discount, you know, it wasn't intellectual things, but
it was, you know, personal things and, and, you know, they happen and that's the way it
is.
But, um, but when we do, when we have met in person, you know, it's a cordial conversation.
I asked him about some things.
One of the things I asked him was like, would you debate me or why won't you debate me?
He says, well, John, that wouldn't be appropriate.
And that's all he said.
We mean not appropriate, you know, because I think it's not appropriate for him because
he, uh, he doesn't want people to think that there's someone who knows what he knows who
doesn't believe it.
I mean, all I say, I know everything, you know, is he doesn't know everything.
I know either, but, um, knows a lot of the same material and yet I don't believe it.
Even taught by him.
It's, it's, I'm an embarrassment to him.
Ah, I see.
So it's a sore spot for him in terms of allowing you to be on a platform next to him.
He doesn't really want that.
I've met him, uh, at the, you know, Society of Biblical Literature Meeting in New Orleans
and I've met him at Sam Harris's debate at, um, Notre Dame and, um, it's, it's been
pleasant conversations.
Personally, it's just on a public scale.
He doesn't want to like mention me or deal with me and now that's just his response.
I mean, I'd love to see him try to, you know, take on this book for instance.
I'd love to see him do it, you know, and, uh, but his, uh, but because I was trained by
him, he doesn't really want to do that.
So whatever.
I get it.
Well, I'm going to shift us into some of the conversation in this book.
I think we need to focus on something in your specific chapter, but with that being
said, prior to doing that, guys, you really need to get it because there are, I mean,
this book is massive.
It's, it's the size of the Bible, um, with various authors that contribute, uh, various
authors who jump in and are, are giving their two cents on this topic and various
other topics.
We go into the magic Jesus ideas.
I mean, there's so much stuff in this book.
So in your specific chapter, we discuss David Hume, uh, he comes up, very important
man when it comes to the miraculous claim and his, a Cree principle for those who
don't know the, a Cree, I just use that.
Maybe I'm, it's an acronym, so to speak, uh, saying extraordinary claims require
extraordinary evidence and Christians love using this principle when it doesn't
agree with their claims, but, uh, let's focus on, uh, one question at a time.
So John, I'd like to ask, can we reject miracles on certainty or probability only?
Well, I, um, nothing's certain and I hesitate to use the word, uh, refutation as in something
has been refuted, uh, because to refute something demands an exceedingly amount of
evidence to refute it.
I think, I mean, to say it's improbable or it's overwhelmingly probable.
Those are sort of the, uh, things I'd like to use.
Um, but I really think, I really think in the case of against miracles, I didn't say
this, I've concluded this after writing it, after publishing it, after having some further
debates on it.
And, uh, I've really come to the conclusion that, um, this book actually refutes Christianity.
Now that's a really strong statement.
I hesitate to say it for the first time online, but, uh, it's not just this book.
It's other things I've written that you could find on my blog, Debucking Christianity.
I, I did a couple of talks for, um, some organizations on Labor Day that defended that
proposition, but I really think that if you have to depend on miracles that are told to
us second hand, third hand, fourth hand, fifth hand from a pre-scientific, um, world that
Richard Carrier describes as, uh, kooks and quacks of the Roman empire.
He does in an article of that title.
If you have to depend on that without any objective evidence at all, none, none, none,
none, then I think that, um, miracles has been refuted.
And if miracles have been refuted, so has, also has the God of miracles been refuted.
Now there might be some nebulous God, some deistic God, not saying that God or a spiritual
God that that God might not have been refuted, but any God who does miracles in the biblical
past, for instance, the ancient past, pre-scientific past, any God, and if we're supposed to believe
those miracles based on second, third, fourth hand testimony from a pre-scientific world without
any objective evidence, then that God, that, that, uh, uh, book has been refuted.
Yeah. I'm going that strong at this point.
Wow. This is fascinating.
Everyone, this is an anthology, by the way, this book, and he has another anthology coming out
here soon on Jesus' mythicism with a variety of mythicist positions.
Didn't want to rabbit-troll there.
Uh, you bring me into another interesting question.
Uh, me, my buddy Stephen Nelson, we're talking last night, and he brought up something and
I said, you know what? That's a good point.
Divine hiddenness, right? We could touch on this because, uh, the idea, and it fascinates me,
the God of the Bible is manifestly not hidden at all.
He reveals himself over and over, and he does this, like you talked about earlier.
God showed himself to Joseph to make sure that he knew Mary didn't sleep around on him.
You know, like, I wish, I wish that were the case for me sometimes, you know,
in these human situations.
Honey, what's this guy doing texting you?
Oh, don't, Holy Spirit.
I'm just kidding. Let me not be too mocking here.
Um, but, uh, he reveals himself and divine hiddenness is something I think is more of a
Greek, uh, type of idea, if I'm not mistaken.
Um, is this something you could touch on?
Because a lot of Christians, I, the Christians will say, well, now, because, you know,
the Bible New Testament talks about all these miracles happening,
all these things that are supernatural, the gifts of the Holy Spirit and such.
But there's this moment where God like pauses during the church age,
or when the church replaces the situation, there's none of this stuff going on.
And some churches think it still is, but we catch them in frauds over and over lying,
TV preachers, you name it.
But the ones who say, well, God right now is just kind of hiding from the miracles.
Um, it's really odd, isn't it?
It is.
I mean, the Christians have a lot of reason to defend that, even though it makes no sense.
For God to, you know, reveal himself once and only once in the distant past.
And the Christians will say, well, God's already established his Bible as the inspired word of
God. He's already established it.
So once established, he doesn't have to establish it anymore.
I know I, I haven't used that line, but it makes no sense because especially in today's world,
when, you know, there's a lot of doubt, I mean, he could settle those disputes, you know,
of which God is the true God by simply, you know, coming out of hiding, for instance,
or doing something spectacular, um, you know, that he just doesn't do.
But what I said, what I say in the case against miracles, I'm pretty sure that,
um, to take an event like the 2004 Indonesian tsunami, which killed a quarter, uh, 250 million
people, um, I think that's what it is.
Yeah. Um, he could have saved them their lives by stopping the underwater earthquake,
you know, before it happened by with a stamp of his omnipotent fingers.
And if he had done that, no one would have been the wiser and he could have stayed hidden.
He could have stayed, uh, you know, if he wanted to be hidden for some unknown,
hidden reason, he could have done that then, there.
And then he could have kept that underwater earthquake from happening ever again
in the foreseeable future by simply doing a, what's called a perpetual miracle.
Um, in fact, all we know is most miracles, I mean, God can do those miracles.
Why can't he, if he's a miracle God, he created the universe out of nothing,
established all laws, then he could create a perpetual miracle.
So a God could have done that and remain hidden and save 250 million lives.
You think about that, right?
And he didn't do it.
So I say that since he didn't do that, and I call that the most horrendous types of suffering there
are, uh, since he didn't do it, we can pretty sure he doesn't do any at all.
I mean, here's a test case and it's not just that one.
It's that one, but plus others, all the other kinds of disasters that have happened that
he could have done the same thing with and stopped all of this and still remain hidden.
So if there is a hidden God up there, who for some reason wants to be hidden,
he can do these things because they are, they continue to happen all over the globe.
We know that he doesn't do miracles.
We just know it.
Not a good God anyway.
I think that's a great point.
I mean, if he's done it over and over, and the craziest thing is, is we've read the book.
Okay.
We've read the book.
We call the Bible.
We call it a single book.
It's so funny.
Now we know it's multiple, but it's almost like we now know to treat it like it's multiple.
Like we don't treat it in the fundamentalist sense that, oh, there's one author, one book,
God in here, an infallible Hallelujah.
No, we know what this thing is.
But in this collection of books, he reveals himself not just to his people.
He does not just show up and say, hey, Israel over here in the corner.
It's often known where other kings, other peoples are like, whoa, the God of Israel did this.
And, or he, he shows himself and reveals himself in many ways to even the enemy,
showing that their God is superior, blah, blah, blah.
Just do it again and we'll be okay.
I mean, everything you've written, John, would go down the drain and throw it in the trash.
He's not doing that.
And I don't, you know, they'll say for some reason he doesn't need to.
He's already established, like you said.
But that's what they say, you know, but we don't have any records of God ever doing that
in the surrounding cultures.
You would think that some surviving parchment would, you know,
say that, yeah, Yahweh kicked our ass, you know.
I mean, the other day, you know, instead of meteorite, well,
he went and sent fire from the sky and it just destroyed it, you know, people.
And they took our virgins, you know, and wow, we were stuck here jerking off or something.
So, you know, we don't see that.
We don't see any inscriptions, you know, like that.
We do see inscriptions that may or may not mention the Hebrew people,
or that there was a pilot or something like that.
But nothing like that.
I mean, like, yeah, God showed us, we've been convinced now, we don't see that.
So, apparently, it's mere assertion in the Bible that God did that or did this
to these surrounding nations.
It's just mere assertion.
And in some cases, we know that those assertions are flat out lies, you know.
Like, it may not be the case that there really was this Canaanite conquest
that's been written about in the book of Joshua and Judges.
But it's more like assimilation.
Like, the Hebrew people came from the Canaanites.
So, you know, either lies or genocide.
You choose.
Wow.
Yeah, I think that that's often.
Would you agree that what happens usually is either there's a mistake on understanding it
so they attribute a miraculous claim, kind of like traumatic situations they say today
when something traumatic happens.
A lot of times, a brain does the work for you.
Like, I've heard of cases where a woman is being molested or raped or something,
and she recalls an angel visiting or something.
It's almost like the chemicals in the brain, the dimethyl tryptamine is being released
from the pineal gland and protecting that woman.
And she has this, doesn't remember being raped sometimes.
Only recalls an angelic experience or something like that.
So, the brain is a powerful tool to protect us from trauma, death, these type of things.
And it's a natural thing.
It is all natural phenomena that will make us think it's supernatural.
Is that an option sometimes?
I mean, do you agree with that?
Certainly is.
It's also a good explanation for why when believers are confronted with evidence to the contrary,
they reject it.
In fact, it's been shown that sometimes when you present evidence to the contrary,
they will walk away from hearing it, reading it, watching it.
They will come away with a stronger faith.
Serious.
It's like, what the hell just happened?
I just leveled both barrels at them and they say, well, you've strengthened my faith.
They'll read my book.
Really, serious.
Yeah, I recommend that book highly.
In fact, why I became an atheist was recommended by Norman Geisser.
He died.
I'm talking with his son now.
It's been a delight to talk to.
But they will walk away and recommend the book like Norman Geisser did.
I think people should read this book because in his deluded mind, he had answers.
You know, answers.
And so he didn't see anything in there to worry about.
What he's saying, what he's saying when he does that, he says, read his book.
And if you have problems, come to me.
Learn from my books.
You know, take my classes.
You know, see my online displays.
Basically, what he's saying is I can answer this guy.
He'll challenge you a little bit, but I got this.
So, and he did and I'm grateful for it.
Don't get me wrong.
They'll walk away with a strength and faith.
I've heard that from time to time.
It's crazy.
It's that, that drug and the social relationships they have.
There's a reason why atheists and agnostics don't get together every Sunday.
I mean, usually, I think there's a Sunday morning church type of orientation of praise
and stuff like that.
I don't know what they do.
They encourage one another, I'm sure.
And I'm not against that.
But the churches, they'll sing to God and hear sermons reinforcing their faith.
I mean, scientists don't get together.
Okay, now it's time to gather together and sing songs to Isaac Newton.
Or let's, let's hear an emphatic reading of poem, you know,
based on, you know, his, his, you know, laws of motion, you know.
Oh, and then let's sing a song.
We just wrote a new song.
And let's repeat the phrase over and over again.
Isaac, we love you.
But they do that because it drums in their belief system.
We don't need that drum to end.
However, we have the evidence.
And the evidence speaks for itself.
And it's nothing you have to sing, nothing you have to meditate on.
You just read it and understand it and replicate the experiments if you need to.
I think we experience other things in life.
We don't need that type of thing to fulfill.
And I think as a human, and I'm speaking as an actual human here at this point,
not a fallen creature under a divine hand.
I'm speaking as a human.
I think all humans need that emotional something that fills their life.
And I thought it was only right.
And I thought only God could do that.
I thought this was like, you know, that's what's dangerous about the world views.
Once you find it collapse, you almost wonder what's the point of living.
That's, that's a scary thing.
You know, when you start to wonder if life's worth living when God may not be,
or this God might not be true.
How I live a life.
Yeah.
And so that's, that brings us into another interesting thing.
Richard Carrier mentioned somewhere in his book sense and goodness without God,
the idea that if the reality we experienced in our daily lives were similar to the movie
Constantine, where people are constantly falling victim to demonic possession that suspended them
in midair, then it would actually be irrational to be an atheist or not to hold a strong belief
in the supernatural supernatural.
I don't know why, but the quote kind of stuck with me because it's obvious that the actual
symptoms of so-called demonic possession that anyone bothered to document all seem totally
consistent with either mental disorders or fakery.
So, and you go somewhat into this, and this even delves into the magic Jesus thing somewhat,
or if there was a guy or there were guys running around healing people.
What the heck is going on?
What's your opinion on some of this stuff, John?
I mean, are they mental disorders?
Are they faking this crap and making money?
A lot of times, even in modern days, I've seen videos in Africa where, and this is known,
I mean, they'll have a guru who has a paid actor to really play this thing on the roll,
and they're going to make some money.
The more money they make, those split percentages, whatever, and they know how to make themselves
look like they're really possessed, or they're healing their arm, or whatever it might be.
So, do you think that?
I don't know about every case, of course.
I think that some people may get into it innocent enough wanting to help,
but they also need paid.
They can't do this for free.
So, they find ways to promote themselves, and some go into an apharious zone
where they try to manipulate people, but the manipulations, the seats, can still be justified
to the believer's mind because we're still helping people.
So, as long as we're helping people, if they feel good about donating towards us,
or if they're not going to donate, if they donate too much and can't live off,
it's not our problem, it's their problem, they justify it all.
Like politicians, I think some politicians get into it
instantly enough, not Donald Trump, I think he's a liar through and through,
but some of them get into it instantly enough, but then before you know it,
they like the power, they like the mind, they like the prestige,
and a lot of things like that, even preachers sometimes.
I don't know about every one of them, but I'm pretty sure that since there's no truth to what
they're peddling, then it's all a farce.
They just may not know how deeply it is.
But also, when it comes to explaining these belief mechanisms that allow people to believe in,
despite of the objective evidence, whether they're liars or frauds,
or what kind of drug they're on, I think it's biology.
I just simply account that all to biology.
We have three different parts of the brain, the lizard.
Prineal, a part of the brain makes up shit as tribal,
and wants to keep within the tribe.
The whole brain is still organized so that there's safety in numbers,
so long as I'm with people who believe the same things I do,
then they will protect me when I need protected, like they're still in the jungle
in tribes, that's why it's called a tribal type of thing.
So you've got biology, the brain sees agency, where there isn't,
and a lot of false positives, just like deer would run away from noises,
because they're used to doing that, and then because they had,
they ran away a lot of times when there wasn't a wolf or an alligator
about ready to snap their head off, because they had a lot of false positives.
They stayed alive as a species, and so this agency detection has evolutionary merit to it.
But also, we're also tribal people, and he's not one of us.
That's why patriotism can be an evil. I think we should think globally.
Biology and tribalism, I think, it comes with it.
To break through that is the tough part.
You can't reason people out of something they were never reasoned into in the first place.
They don't even know that this is why they believe, because of biology,
and the sense that I'm tribal, in my thinking.
You uproot people, you have them raised by somebody else in a different part of the globe,
and that takes the tribal nature of their current faith away,
and then they can think through it, but they still have the biology that says,
there must be some kind of god in the sky, some spirits,
some kind of powers that are supernatural in play.
So the breaking through it is tough to do, but I read an article today recently that shares
that the fact that books may be the most effective way to do it.
Maybe books and podcasts and things they watch, and the privacy of their own home.
Confronting people in public, in front of their family and friends, arguing with them
in that venue, then they will dig their feet in deeper.
But when they're just reading a book and the privacy of their own home,
they may even order it online, and it gets in the mail in a brown paper bag,
so to speak, and they can read it and think about it without having to worry about what
others think of them as they read it.
But they still have those other people looking down on them,
and he knows he's got to still face them.
And so he still has an aversion to considering it honestly.
I think we're lucky to live in a time we do, too,
where the tribal mentality was burned people at the stake.
And now we know that such an atrocity doesn't make sense.
Even the faithful realize that that doesn't make sense.
And I'm glad that we've evolved as a species beyond that.
To some degree, at least in the free world, well, we consider the free world,
and I'm hoping we continue to progress and move forward where we're at is not enough.
And I think that is a very important point you're bringing up, John.
We need to keep going.
I love that.
Another thing, and I don't know if you've heard of the YouTube channel
by Doug from Pine Creek.
Pine Creek is the YouTube channel.
This gentleman is an interesting guy.
I personally don't make my show about this,
but he goes into epistemology, and he constantly interviews Christians
and really kind of like, he's so gentle about it,
but he lets them know what he's doing.
And it's like a psychological practice.
And he like, pins them into a corner and goes,
what would it take to convince you that this isn't true?
I'm not pushing.
I just want your question.
He's such a gentle guy, and he's so funny, too.
Some of this stuff is just completely hilarious, the videos he creates.
I say that to say, he has been pointing out interesting flaws
in the Apologist arguments on claims of the Roman Catholic saying that
the mother Mary performed miracles, virgin Mary,
and Protestants think she's completely powerless.
And I'd like to know what you think about this kind of
innerness and skepticism within Christianity towards other denominations.
It's obviously a form of insider test of faith.
It seems like some Protestant apologists are starting to realize
this inconsistency and are beginning to grant the legitimacy
of Catholic miracles, which is crazy.
This leads into another issue, and I like your thoughts on that,
but I had another buddy who came on Jim Majors,
and he's a PhD candidate in Oklahoma, I believe it is,
who's in the Old Testament writing his dissertation on Daniel.
He pointed out something fascinating the other day.
We were talking about Josephus, and we talked about
one of the Roman historians, a couple of them,
quoting that Vespasian literally,
like eyewitnesses in these writings saying,
there are people alive today saying that this is true.
Watched him step on a man's hand and heal his hand
where he had full working hand after it was withered
or totally messed up, and spit in his eyes and healed these guys.
So what do Christians do when we have, quote unquote,
eyewitness testimony of a Vespasian emperor,
Roman, under the God Mithras, I believe it is,
or Serapis, I think it's Serapis,
healing people, miracles, claiming, of course,
what do you do with that?
Well, Dr. Darren Slade has a chapter in The Case Against Miracles
on how to properly investigate miracles.
And it's a lengthy chapter, tells you how to do it.
But one thing we know about those type of miracles,
they're from the ancient past.
Now, here's what that means.
It's testimonial evidence.
Now, there's two types of evidence.
There's testimonial evidence and there's objective evidence.
Objective evidence is everything that's not testimonial evidence.
How's that?
That makes it easier.
You don't have to go into the depths of it.
And it can be a little complicated.
But basically, it's evidence that everybody can agree upon.
You put the gun on the table in the courtroom.
That's exhibit A. That's evidence.
The ballistics, that's evidence.
Other things, the pictures, that's evidence.
Testimonial evidence is however, this is what somebody says.
You know, this is what he says.
And if somebody relates testimonial evidence,
like you put somebody on a stand and say,
you saw me swear, blah, blah, blah, I do.
OK, now, first off, we want to establish
your witness to these events.
No, I'm not.
But I heard the stories.
I heard the tales.
I heard someone say this, that, and the other.
Well, we can't cross-examine that person for consistency.
True, we can't cross-examine that person to see whether or not
what he says comports with the evidence.
So we're dealing with pure safe testimony, right?
Yeah, well, then I can see the lawyer for the accused say,
I move to dismiss.
And they'd have to dismiss that.
I mean, unless there's some evidence.
Let's see, here's the evidence type of person
bringing some evidence with him, right?
Some evidence with him.
I found this.
Now, where'd you find it?
That kind of stuff.
That's something different.
But objective evidence, however, is something everybody agrees upon.
And the objective evidence that we're talking about here,
with these types of miracles in the ancient world,
still come from the era of the kooks and the quacks of the Roman Empire.
Now, that doesn't mean that there are some skeptical people back there,
you know, from time to time.
Everybody seems to know where it's like to be skeptical
of the other guy's miracle claims, but not of their own.
And emperors had every reason to think that it's important to have
these miracles behind me, because then the more miracles I have behind me,
the more people worship or revere a door of me, and it will follow me, you know?
So he has every reason to purport these sorts of things.
So the first thing is, it's only hearsay evidence separated by 2,000 years
in a pre-scientific world.
So testimonial evidence of that kind, even if these documents say,
well, person X saw this, person Y, person Z saw this, and here's their testimony.
The testimony isn't of them.
The testimony is from the author itself, the author of the doc.
The one person who wrote these things down,
all of this testimony depends on the author.
So that's basically one witness.
You can't cross-examine him, you can't, where's the evidence for this?
I mean, you don't have it.
So these are the kinds of claims that should simply be dismissed.
Now, but if you want to go into current modern claims, then Darren Slade's chapter is excellent.
So, John, this is great.
This leads into just a natural flow of having to ask this, because it seems to me,
and I'm just, I want to be as down to earth as a human as possible here and use the logic
that I have in my mind that makes common sense to me.
Anyone who might have faith in something, I ask that you take a moment with me.
I know I laugh, I make fun, I'm having fun.
Please look past that, because I know how sacred and loyal such things are,
how emotionally deep they are in our bodies, in our being,
when we worship these things, when we believe these things.
And I ask you for a moment to consider this while I ask John this question.
And John, this seems to be the conclusion I would draw.
If eyewitness testimony, or these people that claim eyewitness testimony,
or these writings, like you say, they're not sufficient evidence to make a claim
of the supernatural.
Going back to the accrued principle, extraordinary claims require extraordinary evidence.
Are we ever even going to find such evidence, because you're talking about something that's
beyond the natural world, which makes perfect sense on why we wouldn't be able to find it.
However, the problem here is that very point.
If you can't prove it, if you can't show it, it's extraordinary.
Therefore, it'll never have extraordinary evidence, because it's an extraordinary claim.
There'd be no reason unless you specifically experience this and are being honest with yourself.
Look, man, I got my arm cut off, and God grew it back.
Okay?
Unless you have the same claims that these books are making happen to you,
I see no reason why you are already assuming.
And I don't want to be derogatory.
I'm not trying to be rude to the believer.
I wouldn't, I'm not going to run around.
If I was a Christian, I wouldn't look at Baal, or the Anuma Alish, and say,
these guys really did this, unless I knew, and it happened to me.
And so at that point, I would ask every Christian to really consider and think in themselves,
have I had a withered arm come back?
Have I had a dead person that I knew was dead for three days, four days,
come back after his body was rotting?
You know, I have never seen this.
I'm being honest.
I've never experienced this.
I'm being honest.
I may have had strange things, but like you talked about with the tribal mind,
you know, the mind can play some interesting tricks, and they call it the God of the gaps.
And some things we don't understand, we automatically put into the superstitious realm,
like, there's got to be an answer, and it's got to be mysterious,
or there's no natural explanation.
So that being said, wouldn't you agree we should start with doubt until proven otherwise?
Absolutely.
I think that that's what you do when you approach the religions,
and it's miracles that you reject.
I mean, someone says, well, you know, Allah did this, or the Mormon God did that.
Well, show me.
I mean, everybody who doesn't have already embraced such a religion,
who wasn't already indoctrinated to believe in a particular religious culture,
who asked, show me.
And sometimes they'll do it of their own religion, you know, and they'll show me,
and they'll accept the slightest bit of evidence to prove their own religious miracles.
And they'll be very demanding on the other religious miracles,
and they don't understand that they're having a double standard.
That's why I've argued for the outside test of faith.
It's a test, you know, a self-diagnostic test, if you will, where if you want to be honest with
your faith, you treat all religious faiths the same, all religious miracles the same.
But you can't do that because, I mean, you can't,
you can't do, they can't do that because they want to believe in their miracle claims.
And so they can't believe in their miracle claims, and at the same time,
treat all miracle claims the same, you see.
The one's got to go, so they have to reject the outside test of faith,
which means they have to be dishonest with their faith.
You bring up something fascinating here, and I watched the documentary about the Amazing Randy,
okay? I actually really enjoyed that documentary.
I have, and I'm going to say this bold and blunt, I don't care what anyone thinks,
I have a lot of respect for the wax, the crazies, that really believe they have powers
that are willing to really try and prove their power by going and testing their thing with
the Amazing Randy quest, where he's like, I'll give you a million dollars if you can really
do this, this claim that you have, you can see dead people, you know what
things are going on in some mystical sense. And I heard Richard Dawkins actually in a conversation
with the Amazing Randy say to him, look, you might want to be careful about your test,
because we might have something in the natural world that we don't know yet,
that someone might be able to tap into and beat your test, and then you get screwed,
because you're claiming nothing like that's possible, and you're putting that in the miraculous.
However, no one's ever done it yet. He's done a funny couple funny like pretending like someone
won, but he jokes and say, no, no one ever has ever been able to do this. At least they are
willing to really prove to test their psychic abilities, their stuff like that. The Christians
aren't. They go, well, it won't work unless you have faith, which is almost like you got to be
drinking the Kool-Aid in order to even participate. You do. It's absolutely the case. There's no
doubt about it. You have to already be in a mindset, mind frame, to want to believe,
because otherwise you wouldn't believe. You're really, that's serious. That's seriously true.
And that's why I say, and I'm sure you would agree, I'm Thomas. I have no reason to believe he
rose from the dead. If he shows up, and he really proved it to me, right? I'd want to know, did I
take any drugs, number one, all right? I'd really need to make sure that I didn't do any of that.
I would want to know that I'm not hallucinating, but that would be the only way that would
convince me at this point. I would need to really have a manifestation in the physical
sense of Jesus, if not all well, you know? Yeah. Speaking of Dowing Thomas, I mean,
that character was one of the fourth, in the fourth gospel, the gospel of John. After you see
Mark and then Luke and Matthew, they go into, they offer more and more convincing proofs
along each gospel until finally, hey, we've got some testimony here of a guy who says,
I'm not going to believe until I see him and touch him and blah, blah. Well, that didn't,
that just never happened. You could see the progression of those gospels getting to where
they were. And even if it did happen, see, which it did, it's reported to us in a second hand,
third hand testimony. See, there are miracles that might have happened that we have no reason
to believe. And that's the point. Even if Thomas saw and touched Jesus,
we can't cross examine him. I mean, there's no reason to think that it ever happened,
given the progression of the gospels and more and more evidence. So it doesn't do any good to
have that story in the gospel. It proves nothing. It's just more of the stories that we find in the
gospel of John. But what we're looking for is hard, objective evidence. It's like this.
If I were to tell you that I, I say 18 hole in ones on a standard golf course in a row.
What, what, you, you, you doubt me? What, what, what, I, I can see. Sorry, man. I doubt me.
I just don't think it's possible. It doesn't happen, does it, right? Well, now what if I said,
what if I went further and I, and I said, um, um, I, I sank these 18 hole ones in a standard golf
course and between holes, that is from hole one to hole two, I, I grew wings and I flew,
and I didn't actually walk. I didn't use the golf cart. I just flew that hole and I hit
my another hole in one. Then I flew the next hole and I hit the, the next hole. I mean, that
makes the claims exponentially more difficult to establish. Now, the 18 hole ones on, on your own
without flying, you wouldn't believe without objective evidence. You would need a lot of it.
I mean, you'd actually, you'd actually have to be there and know for certain you're not dreaming
and know for certain you're not drunk and, and, uh, know for certain that no magician's playing
a trick on you. And then if he flies, then it just, the amount of objective evidence required
increases like exponentially. So, uh, when I'm saying, uh, extraordinary claims,
the man extraordinary evidence, that's, that's what we're looking at. We're looking at
Miraculous claims of a, of a man who put his hand into his cloak and brought it out and was
left for us and put it back in. And all of a sudden it wasn't that kind of thing or an axe
had floated or a snake that talked or a son that stood still in the sky with a wheel. I mean,
a great fish that swallowed a man, according to literal views of those that took place, right?
So, um, um, no, no, no, because it also comes from an era that's considered hoops and quacks
of the Roman Empire or beyond. So there's really no objective evidence for any of those claims.
And, um, and, and, and that's what you need. You need that, not just testimony evidence.
Who would believe that golfer and his group of four, group of three with, with him, um,
if they had claims, yeah, yeah, he did that. Give me a break. That doesn't help the case at all,
doesn't it? But we're talking about miracles and, uh, the evidence doesn't exist. And here's, here's
the point. Um, sorry, believer. I mean, I, I empathize with you just as Derek did. Um, I'm sorry
to tell you this. You can complain about this all you want. You can say, well, you're making up these
rules so that, you know, you don't have to believe. No, no, these are reasonable requirements of people
who are reasonable that they need objective evidence. And, and I'm sorry that your God
didn't have the foresight to decide to do some miracles in today's world, you know,
in front of cell phones and in front of, um, um, doctors and, and in front of people who do DNA
testing. Um, and, um, you know, things like that, but, um, that's your God's lack of foresight. And so,
even though every biblical miracle might have taken place as recorded, there is no reason,
absolutely no reason for anyone to believe any of those tales, not one. That's the point.
Now you can go ahead and leave if you want, but you, but then at that point you're being irrational.
You're, you're saying, I know what happened because I have a psychic connection with the spirit world,
the Holy spirit world, if you will. Now you would reject that on any other grounds. I mean,
you would, you would reject that claim from anyone else, the psych, psychics for instance,
but you apparently don't use a single standard from both claims. You should. You just say, you know
what? There's really no reason to believe. Period. I agree with you and I didn't used to,
of course. It was just like you didn't, uh, at one point. We were both believers. We were both
in that worldview. We're seeing through it now and I'm trying to help others kind of realize
why we are downfall, but you make a good point. They will say, no, you just don't want to believe.
My sister-in-law who lives here is a staunch Christian and I approach her with things that I
read in books all the time. I'm not as direct. I'm very like subtle in my approach and get her
response just to hear it and it's always usually an emotional bias response. And so the response is,
no, you, I think you didn't, I think you don't want to be a Christian because you don't want to live
that moral lifestyle that Christians have to live. It's always something along those lines, right?
And I'm like, that's crazy because most Christians don't live the moral lifestyle that is required
of them from the Bible and yet they're Christians or they claim to be. Because they're forgiven.
You're right. Yeah. Yeah. You're avoiding it because you don't, you know, you don't want to have
to acknowledge your faults and you want to live however you want. But I point that out. You,
you bring a good point. They're willing to accept their, no, I feel that this is true or they accept
these books, these tales and deny everyone else theirs and say, no, no, no, that's not true.
This one is, but that one's not true. I actually, as I started to deconvert, I had a slow, I felt
healthy deconversion that prevented me from going all or nothing in my whole world totally
collapsed to a point where I thought just kill myself. For me, it was seeing patterns outside
of the Bible into other mythologies. And when I started seeing it, I started going, ah, God is
bigger than just the Bible. So I said, he's in all of the cultures. He's everywhere. So I had a
monotheistic understanding of God taking God everywhere else and saying, well, he revealed
himself in different ways and all these different cultures at different times and stuff, almost
like Baha'i, but I wouldn't Baha'i. I just had it in my own mind. It was like, God's everywhere. He's
bigger, right? As I started doing that, I started realizing how complicated and problematic that
starts to become. And then I started deconverting from there, but I couldn't deny the patterns,
seeing connections of why the Bible's using other books, why it's coming from other myths,
why other myths have influenced the Bible, maybe why the Bible has influence on other myths. I'm
not discounting that possibility either. The fact is in the ancient world, it was common
to regurgitate and pattern off other ideas, especially successful ones, and borrow these
stories and make yours better than theirs, like Dennis R. McDonald does in his book,
The Homeric Epics. Dude, they're making Jesus cooler and better than Odysseus. And if he's
accurate, either way, they made him better than Moses. We know that for a fact. They made him
better than Elijah. They made him better than their own Hebrew forefathers. So however you
want to chop it up, I started to deconvert that way and realize, and I hope more honest people
continue to do that. I hope more people get this book. Dude, this book is really awesome,
and it's well written, John. Thank you. How long did this take? Oh, I don't know. Let's see. It was
probably a year and a half in the making. Wow. But thanks for recommending it. The first printing
of this book had a number of typographical errors that I won't lay blame on who they are. I guess
they're supposed to be late at my foot. But just the same has been all cleared up. I mean, if you
have an earlier edition and you want to get the later edition, I don't know which one you have,
but I know I sent it to you, but I don't remember which one it is. So just to let people know,
it's been cleaned up pretty well. And I'm excited by it. I'm excited that there are authors of the
caliber that exist that can write for me and will write for me. And that together we produced
a one-of-a-kind book. There isn't another anthology like this, written by Ignacy Sanatius,
to argue our case. I mean, you say, somebody said, well, why don't you get a Christian to
respond? I mean, I could have, but they have all the other books. I mean, this is not like,
I'm not trying to be unfair. I'm trying to equal the playing field, because there's so many books
arguing for miracles, so many anthologies, so many poems. And besides, I really don't think
there's a case for miracles. I know Lee Strohol's book and others books, they are abysmal at trying
to establish the case for miracles. I have another book called How to Defend the Christian Faith,
Advice from an Atheist. You know, I'm an atheist. I'm giving advice on how to defend the Christian
faith. And in it, one of my key chapters is that all apologetics is special pleading. Now, you don't
get it. You don't understand what that means. You know, they're special pleading that, you know,
we believe in our miracles and we reject yours. That's special pleading. It's adopting a double
standard, basically. You know, we are being gentle to our own religion and harsh to yours. It's
special pleading. It's claiming it's special. You know, we're special, all down the line. And
they're not really arguing on behalf of their religion or their miracles in themselves.
They're simply saying ours are better because they're unique. Now, uniqueness doesn't prove shit.
I'm sorry about that. You know, every religion has unique features. You know, you can't just say,
well, ours is unique because we have this ours. And sometimes it's not as unique as they claim
if you just read a little deeper. So I'm really excited about the book. I really think it does
and I don't understand how Christians can read it and not walk away more enlightened,
more reasonable. I mean, I can and more liberal. I mean, maybe even agnostic, maybe deist. You know,
I'm not saying they're going to jump ship all the way. I think that takes place in the incremental
steps, sometimes baby steps. You know, they'll read a little outside their comfort zone and
they'll read a little bit further out there outside their comfort zone. I don't know how that might
work with people, but that's how it worked for me and it might be working for others. So I don't
see how this book won't teach people, everyone, something significant they've never considered
before. Now, I don't mean to say everyone. I mean, not everybody, but most people by far. And I'm
excited about it. Well, I'm excited to get more people acquainted. I'd like to hear you guys in
the comments section. Tell us what you think of the book. If you've read it, give us some
thoughts on it and quote from it, if you will. Let us know what you think. Let me know if you
guys get the book. I'd love to hear your guys' response. You can email me at mythvisionpodcast
at gmail.com. You know, guys, Elvis didn't die. Tupac was never really killed. You know, there's
so many strange conspiracies, superstitions that are roaming around. There's good reason to say,
am I caught up in one, two? So like you say at the intro, in pin, you wrote it to me. With this
book, the case is closed. And I think right now, this was a great episode on just discussing a little
bit of Hume's argument and giving a few examples here as to why we really should be doubtful until
the evidence supports a certain idea. I actually happened to believe you did get 18 holes in one.
So I really do appreciate you letting me interview you on this. And we have much more to come,
especially I'm going to try and get Robert Conor on sometime soon. He doesn't really want to talk
about the magic Jesus thing. He says, man, I'm burnout on that one. He wants to talk about crazy
Paul. So I guess, okay, well, I guess we'll have to talk about crazy Paul, but do that. He's awesome.
I love that guy. Absolutely. And we need to get you on again to talk about your upcoming book
and talking to talking about the varieties of Jesus, Methodism. Would you like to make a comment
on that prior to closing this show? Well, the book, I might come out within six months, maybe
within four months. I'm not sure the timeframe, but it goes further than nearly saying
the Jesus tales are myth. It offers explanations as to how the tales originated.
I think it has 18, 19 chapters, 20 chapters, and they offer different scenarios
for how the tales originated. That's all I'm going to say about that. And then we have
three chapters that take issue with the three main important historicists, Maurice Casey,
James McGrath, and Bart Ehrman. So we don't leave them unscathed. Now, I'm just the editor. I wrote
the preface and I'm happy to put that forth for people to consider. Thank you so much.
I co-edited it with Robert Price. He was the one who got most of the people involved and
he needed help putting it together. And I got maybe two or three of the authors, but the rest of
those he got. And it's a good book. It'll be in life. It'll be important. Absolutely.
I have one more book coming out. I'm working on it. I'm supposed to submit the manuscript
by the end of the year. It's called The Problem of a Good God in Horrendous Suffering.
And taken together with The Case Against Miracles, those two books,
one on the problem of suffering and one on miracles. The case is like shut.
We can't even open the door. That's awesome. The problem of suffering is one of the greatest
problems for any believer in a good God. And I mean, it is the problem. But I show how
both miracles, there's no case for that. And you can't answer this problem. So it's shut.
I mean, I'm pretty happy about that as it's developing. And with that, I might just like
shut the door. Yeah. I don't blame you. You might not write again after that on that topic.
Yeah. Actually, I mean, I'm enjoying life a lot right now. And to sit down and
you know, write this book with other authors. I've got some really good
authors. Nick Tracakis has agreed to write the forward. And he's one of the leading
atheist thinkers on The Problem of Evil out there. And I'm honored about that plus the other
authors that are writing. So this is going to be a book that's going to get attention. And
I'm just thrilled about that one as well. I know that when I was younger, I would listen to
rock bands and they put out a couple albums I just really loved. And then that third or the
fourth one just sucked big time. Led Zeppelin really just blew me away. It's like with the
fifth album after the four. I thought the four was just the greatest album that ever occurred,
you know. And then they put out with House of the Holies, I think it was. I gave it away. Now,
I've come to appreciate them a lot. And every one of their songs since then. But it just didn't
match, you know, the Runes album. And I don't want to do that. I don't want to make them at least
as good or better. And I think that that that book that I'm working on problem stuffing is is
going to be at least as good as the case against miracles. Thank you so much, John. John with his
sword on his neck is ready for combat. And he's cutting through faith like a hot knife through
butter. There you go. And I really do appreciate you joining me. We got to do this again. You're
such an enjoyable character here. I just so much fun. You take complicated things
and you simplified it so easily. So I really do appreciate it. And ladies and gentlemen,
get the books, go down in the description and don't forget we are Mithvision.
