Please consider becoming a patron of MythVision Podcasts, you'll get early access to every
video including this amazing one and you can ask me personal questions, private message
me anything you'd like.
Professor Joel Baden, there is a group of individuals who I encounter trying to become
more scholarly here at MythVision and try to understand what's going on, where this
text is at, because I used to harmonize everything and everything matches everything.
I'll start with something that I think is important.
You wrote this book, promised in the patriarchs, and it's really good so far, I haven't finished
it, I must be honest.
There's a promise that Abraham's progeny, his seed, would be like enumerous, there
would be his literal descendants, his actual ethnic descendants one day, I have to emphasize
that, would be like the sand of the sea, the stars of heaven, and you see this promise
play out, you go all the way to Genesis 49 where Ephraim will be a multitude of nations.
Paul in the New Testament quotes kind of referencing this in Romans 9-11 that when
the fullness of the Gentiles are the fullness of the nations, if you could say a multitude
of nations, when that full number comes in all Israel will be saved.
So the group believes that the ethnicity of the Gentiles that Paul is talking to, they're
just called nations, don't put any meaning into that Derek, it just simply means nations.
These are Israelites scattered among the nations and Paul is drawing out the literal
ethnic lost Israelites according to the New Testament.
They don't believe that anyone that was not an Israelite has any soteriological expectation,
there is nothing there for them really that is optimistic.
That's not what I see play out in many roles throughout the Old Testament, and Paul might
be drawing on some of those more optimistic outlooks.
So I'm asking the scholar, I'm asking the expert, you read the Hebrew, you know the
heritage, you know the stories, like Isaiah 2, Isaiah 66, there's all these passages.
Did Israel have a concept where the world at large, the nations would one day, and I
say nations as a non-Israelites would one day bow down and realize, okay, your God is
the true God, we were wrong.
Cool.
Let's do, let me do two things here.
First let me start with you, sorry, which is with the patriarchs, the promise of Israel's
of Abraham's descendants becoming, you know, numerous.
Yes, that's obviously there.
It's also done by the end of Genesis, right?
By the end of Genesis and the first chapter of Exodus, Israel has become that, right?
So it doesn't mean they're going to become like, like overrun the world, right?
The promise means you'll be a lot of people, right?
It's, you know, big, a big language, but like it literally, like the Bible tells us when
it happens, right?
The Bible says, and they became fruitful and multiplied, right, like it fulfilled.
And once we've reached the beginning of Exodus where Israel, where Abraham's descendants
have in Israel is said to become fruitful and multiplied, which is, you know, what leads
into the enslavement and all sorts of bad things, right?
Once that happens, that number comes up again, right?
Like no one else, no other individual is told, like, be fruitful and multiply.
Like it's not a, like we're done, right?
We've done it.
We've become nation big, right?
We've become big enough to be a nation, right?
That's all that really means.
I mean, that's all the promise is about anyway, right?
Like you'll be lots of people and you'll have land, right?
Which is to say you'll be a nation, right?
That's how you define, that's it.
Okay.
So that's one thing.
Starting basically with Isaiah, we get a pretty interesting, like, run of prophets
who are looking ahead to an eschatological future, right?
What's going to happen, like, when everything comes out the way it's supposed to be, right?
And it's a vision that shifts over time somewhat.
And you can see it, like, again, starting in 1st Isaiah and then it gets more played
up in 2nd Isaiah and goes on and on even into the latest of the prophets, you know, Malachi
and some of these others where it becomes even, anyway, it changes over time.
So again, the notion there is, I remember, Isaiah is written with Israel, not an exile.
When Isaiah, 1st Isaiah is written, Israel's hanging out in Israel, like, they haven't
gone anywhere.
It's the 8th century, right?
So everything is pretty much normal, right?
Even the north is still around.
Nobody's been on an exile.
Nobody's right where they're supposed to be.
And so Isaiah is imagining, you know, like, when the good time comes, when the eschaton
comes, one of the ways that's going to be manifest is all the other nations of the world
are going to come to our temple, right?
Like the one that we worship at right now, because we're right here, right?
They're going to come to our temple and they're going to worship alongside us, right?
They're going to all recognize, right, like, that Yahweh is actually a better God than
their gods, and they're going to come in.
And 2nd Isaiah, 2nd Isaiah sort of introduces the Bible to the idea of there only being
one God, right?
And it being Yahweh.
So Isaiah picks up on this, she's like, yeah, yeah, that's what's going to happen.
The nations are all going to come in, and they're not in order to recognize that Yahweh's
a better God.
Yahweh's the only God, right?
And they're going to come, they're going to come streaming in, and they'll celebrate
our festivals, and it'll be great.
And you can see subsequent prophets picking up on this idea, and even like, it seems as
they recognize that, like, as they recognize that the promised eschatons keep not coming
to pass, right?
Like, for, you know, for 1st Isaiah, it was like, get rid of these Damocerians, and like,
that'll be the thing.
And 2nd Isaiah is like, clearly it wasn't that.
Like, it'll be when we all return.
That'll be the thing.
Right?
Like, and then later prophets are like, well, we all returned, so it's going to have to
be something else, right?
It'll be building the temple.
It'll be like, and the promises have to get more and more extravagant, right?
Because the eschatological visions aren't like actually, they're not designed to actually
say, here's what I, like, foresee is going to happen.
It's, they're designed to be like, guys, if we, if you do what I'm telling you to do,
this is like, they're props, right?
Like they're, they're prodding people, right?
It's the carrot, right?
Like, do the right thing, and this could, could come to you.
So if people aren't doing the right thing, you have to keep making the carrot better
and better, right?
Because the same carrot ain't going to, ain't going to work.
So it's, so it's not just that the other nations are going to come into worship, right?
It's that the other nations are going to come in and are essentially going to be enslaved
to us, right?
Like, it doesn't really use the term enslaved, but like, we're going to become, we're just
going to hang out and be like priests.
I think it's Malachi.
It's one of, it's one of the later prophets and it's a shame that I can't remember who
it is.
Okay.
One of them says, not only are you going to come in, but like, we all, Israelites, we're
all going to be priests, right?
Which is to say, we're not going to, we're not going to do any labor, right?
We'll simply worship and eat the offerings that others bring, because that's how priests
work, right?
They make their living by other people bringing sacrifices and then they eat some of the sacrifices
and that's, that's their payment, right?
That's their sustenance.
So this prophet's like, all of Israel's going to do that.
We're all going to kick back and we're going to eat the, you know, the tithes and the first
fruits and the festival offerings that all the other nations who are doing the work in
the fields that we normally do, but they're all going to bring that stuff to the temple
and we're all just going to kick back and enjoy it.
So you can see how like, not only are they going to come worship, they're going to do
our work for us and we're going to get to relax and like that becomes the eschatological
vision.
But again, building on, building still on Isaiah's notion that the nations will all come in.
All of it assumes an Israel and then outsiders who are coming in to recognize the validity
of Israel's worship, recognize the universality of Israel's God, recognize, you know, it's
all about an us versus, versus them where the us is Israel and the them is the foreign,
the foreign nations.
So this is beautiful, the way you put that, I really appreciate it.
It goes a step further.
So some of them will say, and you could probably cut this one real easily, that, well, God
only gave his law to Israel.
So in effect, no one has actually given the law, but Israel, therefore, no one else sins.
This idea that the only people who sin are Israelized because they were given the law.
Now they used the New Testament, which is not your will house, though you know of it.
I have, I have her tell of this new test of which you speak.
So this idea that other nations don't really play a soteriological role or they weren't
given a law or there's not really any promises, they'll ask a question like, where in the
Old Testament does it promise that God would pour out his spirit, his Holy Spirit on anyone
other than Israelites, right?
I conceded and said, I don't think there are any.
However, that doesn't mean what Paul in the New Testament is doing is the same as that.
So there seems to be a fundamental methodological difference between the way I'm approaching
the biblical text while I speak to scholars over and over who say, no, they're building
on previous narratives in their own context for their own purposes.
Seems to me, if you take the complete fiction view they do that everything is fiction, or
if it isn't fiction, they don't really, nobody has their like, here's exactly how methodology.
They kind of go with the flow.
They're like jello.
You throw it up against the wall.
You can't really stake it.
It just falls to the ground.
You can't really pin them down on any particular.
Is it history?
No, is it fiction?
It could be either.
It could be either.
How much jello do you throw against the wall regularly?
You knew exactly what that would be like, which is weird.
Let's just put it this way.
I have a pretty good experience.
I've thrown some jello in my day, you know.
Yeah, jello.
Okay, go ahead.
No, but I'm building up something to kind of give you the gist.
And I want to throw a few things out there.
We mentioned Jonah in the previous video.
Jonah is an interesting myth.
And I say myth as in from the perception of the author, he obviously is envisioning something
even if it is a myth.
And it is that God will show mercy to nations, even the enemies of Israel, if they're willing
to repent of wickedness.
Seems very obvious to me.
Even the guys on the boat who are ready to throw them over show mercy by going, please,
we don't want to.
We threw our stuff overboard.
We don't want to throw him an innocent blood in the water.
But comes down to that that they have to stay thrown in.
And then in chapter three, we see this problem happen where he goes and preaches and the
king and his nobles and all the people repent in sackcloth and ashes.
These aren't Israelites.
Is it in this a picture of kind of showing, I'm not saying the Holy Spirit would be poured
out.
That's Paul's idea.
But that it's heading in the direction like kind of optimistic, God will show mercy to
even the enemies of Israel.
And these are people who conquer them.
But what is Rome in the first century?
Do you not think Paul's thinking something like, hey, we're conquered by people here.
We're once again not a free state.
Is that possibly in the mind of Paul that he's using some of these universalistic principles
as well as by the first century, Hellenism, cosmopolitan concepts of God like Philo of
Alexandria, et cetera.
Sorry.
Sorry for the long winded.
But I feel like I should be asking you the questions.
Right.
No, again, this is not at all my wheelhouse.
I would say this, the notion of turning any part of the Hebrew Bible or the Old Testament
into the one single track of a thing, it's already weird to me.
You said the thing about the law was only given to Israel.
That's for sure true.
That's like a basic principle of Judaism to this day.
It was like, none of the rest of y'all are responsible for this.
We're the only ones who have the law given to us.
But most of the Bible doesn't know or care about the law.
The law is something that Judaism made into a big deal, and that's why Christianity responded
to it by sort of saying, forgetting it.
But you read Isaiah, you'd never know that there was law that defined what it meant to
be Jewish.
You would never think that any foreigner was being castigated, the foreign king was being
castigated or people were being castigated for their failure to follow the law.
At worst, it's that they fail to recognize that there's only one real God.
That's a later thing in the Bible, because that's post-Second Isaiah when we invent
the idea that there's only one real God.
Before then, earlier parts of the Bible, foreign nations can do whatever hell they want.
No one in the Bible more generally, but certainly no one in the majority of the earlier parts
of the Bible, I mean earlier, not textually, but earlier, chronologically, they don't
care that the Moabites are worshiping a different God than Yahweh.
Of course they're worshiping a different God than Yahweh.
That's their God.
We're not asking them to worship our God, we're just telling our people not to worship
their God.
That's the thing.
If no one gets mad at Canaanites for not worshiping Yahweh, we get mad at Israelites for worshiping
Baal.
That's the Elijah story, that's what's going on there.
You've got other nations doing their own thing and that's cool.
Isaiah, Second Isaiah, starts to make fun of them.
You go out there worshiping your man-made creations of wood and stone and that's not
real.
How lame are you to do that is Second Isaiah's position.
Second Isaiah still isn't like your sinners, but Second Isaiah does have a vision of you'll
come around, you'll figure it out.
Not you'll figure out that you need to be following the laws of Leviticus 22 or it's
not that.
It's you'll figure out that you should stop worshiping your little trinkets and you should
be worshiping the one true God which involves coming to the temple and bowing down and worshiping
and sacrificing.
That's it.
Law is the wrong category.
It's belief and faith and loyalty and obedience that might manifest in law to some biblical
authors and to many, most others not.
Once you've got all of that in mind, then it's really easy for somebody to say, first
of all, for the New Testament and early Christianity to make the association of we are Israel.
What we're doing is we're expanding the definition of Israel.
This is the new Israel.
We're all new Israel, new covenant, new rules, we're getting rid of the laws.
It's a whole different thing.
It's come be part of the community.
Yeah, because I'm just jabbing in there to kind of get you where my track's going.
They'll quote Hebrews 8-8 which says that the new covenant would be for the house of
Israel and the house of Judah.
They take this literally.
They say, this means anyone who's joining the new covenant must be for the house of
Judah and the house of Israel.
So they think this means the Gentiles of the New Testament must fit either category, either
Jews, but they're not that because they're not circumcised.
They're obviously not law-absorbed.
They must be the lost paganized northern Israelites somehow.
And so they think that that's what's going on in the first century is that there's this
re-gathering.
So I ask this question, which is logical.
When at what point did faux Christians, they call them faux Christians, actually start
wanting to worship a monotheistic God because they don't see why would nations care to worship?
Like you talk about a lot of times in the Old Testament, yeah, it's clear.
They wouldn't want nothing to worship this God, and they shouldn't really want to worship
the other ones unless they saw the glorious kingdoms and said, well, this God must be
working pretty well.
I think the Babylonians are, let me go for their gods or whatever.
Our God's not really doing much.
Why would Gentiles ever want, and when I say the word Gentile, I mean non-Israelites,
why would they want to worship this God to begin with?
What does he have to offer for them?
That's the idea that these guys have, plus they see things that say only for the house
of Israel, house of Judah, Hebrews 8.8.
Is it a redefinition, would you say, in the New Testament?
It's new context, redefining these old ideas?
It seems pretty clear to me, and I mean, lots of people can answer this, but it seems really
clear to me that the entire game that's being played there is redefining what constitutes
Israel.
I mean, Paul's taken circumcision out of it, why?
Because he wants to get people in who aren't, who are, he's expanding their borders.
Circumcision's a tough, that's a tough ask.
If you want to get some new people in, that's a tough one.
You let go of it, you let go of the dietary restrictions, you let go of the things that
close off the community, so that you can broaden it.
To say something like a new covenant for the house of Israel and Judah, and to be like,
therefore, it's only anybody who fits that category at that moment, that would, I mean,
I suppose these people also don't permit immigration into America, right?
How do you become American?
I guess were those people all so dispersed Americans?
No, you can join.
You're allowed to join and take on new identities.
That's a thing that happened in the ancient world constantly.
It was easier than it is now, because you didn't need to sign paperwork, you need to
be like, I'm into Jesus, like, cool, you're in, or I want to offer those sacrifices, cool.
You worship Yahweh now, like you switched over.
It's interesting you say that, because that's one of the big things they say isn't true.
In fact, I don't know if you've ever heard of this guy, and I apologize in advance for
even mentioning a guy named Ghost Ezra.
That's not a real name.
Right.
Right.
So this is an example of the mindset that comes into this real quick, and we've got nine
minutes to end this 30 minute clip, right?
Let's unwind this one, shall we?
First, we must start with the origins of both words, Jew and Jewish.
Both are recent modern words, found nowhere in the New Testament or Old Testament Greek
or Hebrew.
Okay.
He's just an anti-Semite, like we're done.
Yeah.
Okay.
You already know, because if you go to the last one.
I'm done.
He's anti-Semitic, and it's just the same thing again.
So that isn't true, though.
That isn't true, that that's just an anachronistic term.
I'm not saying there aren't anachronisms.
I'm saying people could join.
People were able to participate and join and become part of Israel.
It's not even anachronistic, right?
The word Jew comes from the Hebrew word Yehudit, which comes from the term Judean, right?
Judahite.
It goes all the way back to the tribe of Judah.
It's the same thing that it is now, right?
It was a description of people who lived in a certain place, they were Judahites.
And then that place was the tribe of Judah originally, and then it was the southern kingdom
of Judah.
And then when the northern kingdom fell, it was the entirety of Judah, and then it was
the territory of Judea in the Babylonian and Persian and Hellenistic periods, right?
So those people were Judeans, right?
Judeans is Yudaioi, right?
Which is the word that gets translated as Jews, right?
They're people from that place.
Does it eventually end up coming with some like, you know, like a broader culturally
identifying baggage like who you believe in?
Sure.
But that's not new, right?
If you were a Judahite in, you know, two, 2500 years ago, you worshiped Yahweh because
that was the national god of Judah.
So yeah, like, it goes further and he gets crazy.
They're all just, they're just, they're just standard old anti-Semitic tropes that, like,
and I said this in another one of these clips, right?
Yeah.
It's boring, right?
Right.
It's old and it's like an attempt, it's this like ridiculous attempt to clothe basic anti-Semitic
like claims and beliefs and old ones in like fancy, scholarly, like, you know, like scientific
theorems.
Well, this term wasn't invented like stop A, it's wrong and B, that's not how language
works.
And C, you're an anti-Semite.
I don't care.
Yeah.
You know, like the Lost Tribes, we're talking about the Northern Kingdom, they get destroyed,
Assyria crushes them 721, 722 or something.
Here they are now.
They're taken into Assyria.
Obviously, there might have been a diaspora for a certain period of time, but they assimilate.
The idea is they're no more.
Hosea, two harps on this, you are not my people, right?
Not my people, but there's a promise and there's always these promises.
They'll come back.
This idea that they'll come back, you kind of get the gist of it in Jeremiah 31, where
he's like, I'm going to reestablish a new covenant with the house of Israel and the
house of Judah in that context.
That idea was a reestablishment, if I'm not mistaken, like renewing the covenant of the
law.
Here in the New Testament, when he uses that, why is Paul not, he's talking like in spiritual
terms, oh, circumcision of the heart only, you know, don't worry about the law.
That's not what you would imagine if you were reading Jeremiah 31.
But in Paul's time, with his non-circumcised, ethnic, you know, Gentile people, that makes
sense if you're trying to do what Paul's trying to do.
Yeah.
I mean, one of the dumbest things you can say is that the same things mean the same
things at all times to all people in all places.
Everything gets adapted.
That's how interpretation works.
The best, most obvious interpretations we have in the Bible are the New Testament interpreting
the Hebrew Bible, right?
Not telling me what it means, right?
Like, it's not that the New Testament gives us the key to understanding the Old Testament,
right?
It's that the people who wrote the New Testament mostly Jews, right?
Like they were doing the same thing that we've always done, right?
They're interpreting their texts.
They're bringing them up to date for their own contexts.
And like, that's what interpretation is.
And if you don't know the difference between interpretation and like, not interpretation,
then like, you miss the boat, you know what I mean?
And obviously, okay, that's like a broad thing that happens in a lot of different places
and ways.
People don't recognize the difference between interpretation and the thing being interpreted,
right?
Like, you know, so, you know, you'll read a piece in the Old Testament and be like, it's
about Jesus, right?
Without recognizing that, like, it being about Jesus is the interpretation, not the thing
being interpreted, but like, you can't get, you're not going to get very far with me or
most people, I think, trying to read that way, right?
Right.
Thank you, Dr. Joel.
