Every once in a while, something incredible comes our way that we can't wait to share.
Good thing I have this YouTube channel, right?
Not too long ago, I had the privilege of discussing with Dr. Del C. Allison Jr. what counts as
historical fact in the Gospels.
A particular standout was the odd scene in Mark 5 where Jesus' actions seemed more
fictional than remembered.
But here's where it gets really interesting.
Dr. Dennis R. McDonald pointed out that this story might just be imitating classics like
Homer's Odyssey and Virgil's Aeneid with a heavier lean on the Odyssey.
This imitation, or mimesis, isn't just copying.
It's about adapting these famous tales for a new audience.
Through my time with MythVision, I've seen many scholars suggest such influences on Luke
Axe, but suggestions for Mark's Gospel have been scarce, yet there are exceptions like
Dr. Robin Faith Walsh, who sees echoes of Virgil's Aeneid in Mark.
Then there's Chris Rosser from Oklahoma Christian University.
His insightful piece not only bridges the gap between believers and skeptics, but also
demonstrates a deep understanding of Mark's intentions using both Jewish and non-Jewish
sources.
This has sparked hope for more fruitful dialogues across beliefs.
If Mark is layering his narrative this way, what more could we be missing in the New Testament?
Ready to dive into a world where Cyclops, witches, cave monsters, and demigod heroes
mingle?
Let's embark on the epic quest to uncover how deep these ancient influences run, and
perhaps see Jesus in a new light as he triumphs in mythical battles.
Who's with me?
Professor McMillan concluded class that day with an insightful observation.
The odd wee passages of Axe were narrative perspective awkwardly shifts from third person
to first person plural.
Those odd wee passages seem to coincide with stories in and around the city of Troas.
I'm not sure why, but it's interesting to note.
Yes, it was an interesting observation.
Similar to others, I had the privilege of hearing Dr. Lynn McMillan share during the
two semesters we co-talked Bible and Classical Literature for honor students at Oklahoma
Christian University.
Indeed, his comment was the first time I had heard a connection made between the mysterious
wee passages and the ancient city of Troy since Troas was proximate to old Troy and conveyed
association between Aeneas of Troy and epic stories about the origins of Roman power.
Lynn's observation opened my eyes and ears to a possibility that the wee passages of
Axe might be understood literarily and not historically, that the shift in language
proximate with stories in and around Troas, a shift in language most akin to Odysseus'
narration of his own travels after the sack of Troy, might signal an intentional intertextuality
and not simply indicate that Luke joined Paul's company at Troas, as has been widely assumed.
Lynn became, for me, unwitting muse, or more likely, as masterful teacher Lynn intentionally
ignites imagination with questions so that students might make associations that yield
new insights and bring to light possible but undiscovered meanings.
Lynn may have been an unwitting muse, but he has been my muse, nonetheless.
The following is offered in honor of distinguished professor Lynn McMillan in hopes that attending
to imitation and inversion of unfamiliar story might yield new insight and bring to light
possible but undiscovered meaning out of Mark's telling of Jesus and the garrison demoniac.
We will explore the possibility that the odd Latin loanword Ligeo, or legion, signals
intertextuality with Virgil's Aeneid, specifically hearing Hercules rend open the cavern of Cacus.
Growns and cracks of rock roots snapping as a stony precipice is heaved into churning
waters summoning unexpected daylight to transform the darkness of a deathly monster's lair.
Hearing Hercules in Mark 5 confirms the meaning and trajectory of the Gospel as it unfolds
in Mark's telling of the story of Jesus.
Gospel writers like Mark are clever, masterful storytellers, and story itself is a profound
delivery device for truth.
This essay offers opportunity to listen, see, discover, and learn from the imitation and
inversion unfamiliar story.
Such was the aim of our classes together, helping students encounter biblical narratives
alongside story from the ancient and classical worlds.
Such is also the aim of this essay dedicated to Dr. Lynn McMillan.
As an epic feststrift, or celebrated writing, is also bearer of heroic playoffs, fame, glory.
This project playfully applies Dennis MacDonald's mimesis criticism.
Playfully applies because MacDonald also plays the muse, igniting minds and sparking debate
about Homer's lurking presence in the Gospels and Acts, and my hope here is to playfully
imitate his approach.
My aim is not to show that Mark intended Aeneid 8 as a hypotext or model for the episode of
Jesus and the garrison demoniac, rather I want to ask what we might learn if we assume the
name Legion signals Virgil's story of Hercules and the Monster Caucus.
Indeed, MacDonald himself asserts that the authors of the Gospels did not imitate Virgil's
Latin epic, at least not as profoundly as Mark and Luke imitated Homer's Iliad and
Odyssey.
Hence, from the outset, I am being playful, bullish, willfully transgressing the bounds
of the muse's approach.
We plunge straight to the center where the smoke surges highest, to discern what might
be discovered between the garrison tomb and the Palatean cavern.
MacDonald argues that Gospel writers, especially Mark, Luke and John, intentionally imitate
Greek and Roman story to present Jesus as a superior rival to the gods and heroes of
familiar story.
Mimesis is imitation, and the imitation of earlier story is a hallmark of ancient literary
practices.
Essentially, the New Testament can, and perhaps should, be read as not only continuous with
the Hebrew Bible, but also as ancient Mediterranean literature that mirrors, mimics, Greek and
Roman story.
As MacDonald describes, Greek education largely involved imitation of the epics.
What Greeks call Mimesis, Romans called it imitatio.
Homeric influence thus appears in many genres of ancient composition, poetry of course,
but also histories, biographies, and novels.
One must not confuse such imitations with plagiarism, willful misrepresentation, or
pitiful gullibility.
Rather by evoking literary antecedents, authors sought to impress the reader with the superiority
of the imitation in literary style, philosophical insights, or ethical values.
Roman Mimesis often promoted a sophisticated rivalry between the esteemed models and their
innovating successors.
Certainly, this is the case between Virgil's Aeneid and the Homeric epics.
The Aeneid represents Virgil's resourceful adaptation and appropriation of Greek's epic
tradition, newly transformed so as to celebrate Rome's divine election and elevate Romanitas,
the Roman way, to ascendancy as the universal human ideal for a new millennium of Roman
power.
The story of Aeneas exists as both imitation and invention, continuous and discontinuous
with familiar epic, and through Virgil's ingenious literary invention, the Aeneid became
the surprising fulfillment of its revered Greek predecessor at a time when the Homeric
epics continued to enjoy the status of sacred texts throughout the Hellenized world.
Virgil's imitation of Homer is evident and easily detectable.
Mark and Mimesis is, to be sure, another story.
McDonald admits, clearly the Gospel of Mark does not advertise its Homeric hypertext duality
and transvaluation as transparently as the Aeneid.
Nevertheless, Mark does incorporate mimetic markers that signal epic literature, aspects
of Mark's project, to embed traditions about Jesus within a narrative that would present
him as superior to heroes of Greek mythology just as he presented him as superior to Moses,
Jonah, and Elisha.
Also through imitation of familiar Jewish story, as an example, he suggests that modern
readers have been blind to many of Mark's most significant mimetic markers, significant
personal and place names.
In large part, this blindness is caused by modern translations that transliterate names
without translating them.
McDonald suggests that Mark not only created significant names, but also frequently uses
them to evoke antecedents in the Iliad and the Odyssey.
Mark as inventor of names positions him squarely within the poetic, literary, and rhetorical
conventions of the day.
Here we might compare approaches to the Gospel by evaluating the fruits of two sense-making
strategies related to Mark as inventor of names.
In Jesus and the Eyewitnesses, Richard Bacchum acknowledges that names in the Gospels are
a phenomenon that has never been satisfactorily explained, and raises the question as to why
Matthew and Luke omit certain names in their redaction of Mark, making a historical argument
that by the time Matthew and Luke wrote, certain figures had been forgotten, or had become
too obscure to include by name.
For example, Bartimaeus, Mark 10, 46-52, a blind man encountered and healed near Jericho,
is not mentioned by name in Matthew and Luke, as explanation of the omission Bacchum posits.
With Bartimaeus, we encounter the phenomenon of a character named by Mark, presumably because
he was well known in the early Christian movement, but whose name was dropped by one or both
of the later synoptic evangelists, presumably because he was not well known when or where
the evangelist wrote.
Mark could expect his readers to know of Bartimaeus as a kind of living miracle who made Jesus'
act of healing still, so to speak, visible to all who encountered him as a well-known
figure in the churches of Jerusalem and Judea, but after his death and after the fall of
Jerusalem, which removed the Jewish Christians of Palestine, Bartimaeus was presumably no
longer a figure of wide repute, and so Matthew and Luke omitted his name.
The tendency of Matthew and Luke to omit some of the names we find in Mark would be explained
if these people had become, by the time Matthew and Luke wrote, too obscure for them to wish
to retain the names when they were engaged in abbreviating Mark's narrative?
Seems stretched when, in the paragraph immediately following, Bachom offers Cleopas as an example
since Cleopas is only named in Luke's gospel, not Mark's.
In Luke 24 18, Cleopas and a companion encounter Jesus' return from the dead, but divinely
disguised so that they could not recognize him, and they show hospitality to the stranger.
Bachom acknowledges that there seems no plausible reason for naming him Cleopas other than to
indicate that he was the source of this tradition.
MacDonald offers something different.
MacDonald posits that Mark's Bartimaeus and Luke's Cleopas are invented names, each
signaling story from the Odyssey.
Cleopas is a rare name, appearing only here in the New Testament.
The name is derived from Kellos or Kilos, depending on your pronunciation of the Greek,
and translates as all fame or all renown.
In Book 19 of the Odyssey, the hero Odysseus, whom many have long presumed dead, returns
to his home but is divinely disguised as a beggar.
He is shown hospitality, especially by the beloved nurse Euryklia, whose name translates
as far-flung fame or far and wide renown.
As the nurse bathes the beggar, her hand encounters a prominent scar, well known to her who had
cared for and bathed Odysseus in the years before his departure to Troy.
Consider her touching reaction, as the woman suddenly recognizes her long lost lord.
The old slave woman, holding his leg and rubbing with flat arms, came to that place
and recognized the scar.
She let his leg fall down into the basin.
It clattered, tilted over, and the water spilled out across the floor.
Both joy and grief took hold of her.
Her eyes were filled with tears.
Her voice was choked.
She touched his beard and said, You are Odysseus, my darling child, my master.
I did not know it was you until I touched you all around your leg.
Considering the salient theme of recognition, as disguised lords presumed dead are revealed
alive and confirmed by unmistakable scars, Luke 24 and Odyssey 19 clearly resonate.
The invented name Cleopas signals the Odyssey so that those who have ears to hear might
listen for imitation and inversion of familiar story.
Similarly, MacDonald hears echoes of the blind prophet Eresius in Mark 10, 46-52, signaled
by the name Bartimaeus.
In Odyssey 11, Odysseus and his crew sailed the edge of ocean, a land of perpetual darkness
where the shining sun, God never looks on them with his bright beams, where destructive
night blankets the world, the land of the dead.
Odysseus prepares to summon the seer as readers consider the horror of the scene.
I promised for Eresius as well, a pure black sheep the best in all my flock.
So with these vows, I called upon the dead, took the sheep and slit their throats above
the pit.
Blood flowed out, the spirits came up out of Erebus and gathered around, teenagers,
girls and boys, the old who suffered for many years and fresh young brides whom labor
destroyed in youth, and many men cut down in battle by bronze spears, still dressed
in armor around the pit with eerie cries, pale fear took hold of me.
I roused my men and told them to flay the sheep that I had killed and burned them and
prayed to Hades and Persephone.
I drew my sword and sat on ground, preventing the spirits of the dead from coming near the
blood till I had met Eresius.
Odysseus then encounters the ghost of a recently and tragically departed shipmate, El Peinor.
He then sees the ghost of his own mother and pitifully weeps.
Finally, the spirit of the unseen seer approaches, recognizing and calls to the hero by name.
Zeus-born son of Laertes, Odysseus of many devices.
After conversing and receiving from the prophet insight or his journey in foresight about
his own death, Odysseus turns again to his mother who speaks to her son in tones of grief.
Then in my heart I wanted to embrace the spirit of my mother.
She was dead and I did not know how.
Three times I tried longing to touch her, but three times her ghost flew from my arms.
Like shadows or like dreams, sharp pain pierced deeper in me as I cried.
No, mother, why do you not stay for me and let me hold you even here in Hades?
Grief overwhelms the scene.
Tiresias himself turns and departs again to the house of Hades.
But outside Jericho, city of the moon, a blind man recognizes the one who approaches and cries out.
David's son, Jesus, have mercy on me.
Jesus opens the blind man's eyes.
He follows Jesus on the road, presumably a road that leads away from or out of Jericho,
the city of the moon.
With the name Bartimaeus signals Arce 11, those who anticipate imitation and inversion
discern expectation for the afterlife overturned.
Whereas the soul of Tiresias returned to Hades, Bartimaeus left Jericho to travel with Jesus.
Herein lies the emulation, Odysseus left Tiresias blind in the netherworld.
Jesus cures Bartimaeus.
According to MacDonald, the name Bartimaeus may be significant.
This is the only name given to a recipient of a miracle in the synoptic gospels both
Matthew and Luke omit it in their accounts.
It is quite clear that the names of the beneficiaries do not belong to the genre of gospel miracle stories.
So explanation of those names that do occur is certainly required.
Bacchum does not seem to make room for the possibility that Mark and the other gospel
writers invented names as a literary or rhetorical technique, a memetic device for signaling
some other story.
His recovery of the gospels as testimony presents a reputable historiographic category
for reading the gospels as history and also a theological model for understanding the
gospels as the entirely appropriate means of access to the historical reality of Jesus
and for realizing the disclosure of God and the history of Jesus.
This project is laudable and the fruit of his efforts have benefited the academy and
church alike.
But by our comparison of Bacchum and MacDonald, scholarly work flayed open, ink like black
blood spilling, a gibbering question approaches, a shade summoned from beyond the pale crying
at top of voice.
What about me and you, Jesus, son of the Most High God?
A monstrous question.
We moderns have come to associate truth with the facts of crystallized history.
A story is true if it is historically reliable, if it actually happened as depicted by the
facts of historical presentation.
But might we not be better to consider a story true as it communicates truth?
This question should not imply that the Bible is a historical, rather the Bible as story
more profoundly delivers truth than Bible as history.
To read the Bible primarily as history diminishes sacred scripture, reduces it to something
hard and unbending, facts to be learned.
Dogma and doctrine chiseled out from historical text.
Reading the Bible as sacred story moves in and among us different.
Dogma is crystal, story is water, mythos moves like water, shaping and reshaping the landscapes
we inhabit.
Myth is a formational power, story that communicates significant meaning and truth for particular
culture.
Mythos shapes shared identity or we might say mythos becomes ethos as the stories we
tell translate to the values, ethics and norms of community shaping cultural identity.
Mythos shapes ethos, the stories we tell follow us out, become the realities we inhabit and
telling a good story is the first step in creating, shaping cultural identity through
story is precisely what we discover by attending to mimesis, imitation or emulation of ancient
story.
Perhaps ancient epic is a better delivery device for the gospel because epic delivers
the moral, the ethical, the political, the theological and the universal mythos that
profoundly shapes ethos.
History has a telling of historical events and historiography, history that attempts to
convey the truth or meaning of a historical event and even biography, bios are not sufficient
to do what epic can do.
As we discern in what the Aeneid is and what it became for Rome as with Aeneid it is not
how imitated story is similar but where imitation diverges where the stories become different
when imitation becomes inversion that reveals the meaning of mimesis.
Mimesis of Greek and Roman epic story become playful imitation, foundly communicative of
a gospel that turns the world on end.
In our own contemporary storied worlds it is typically villains who monologue.
So we return to our exploration of the meaning of mimesis in Mark 5.
Gospel writers like Mark convey truth that transcends historicity and lives as story.
Mimetic markers in Mark are less clear than in the Aeneid.
It is also possible that what is sometimes heard as mimesis is an echo of words or images
that live, move and have their being as poetic memory.
An idea that language itself and especially literary or poetic language already contains
within it the memory of previous texts.
The echoes we hear may be intended or unintended and we need to think of the relation between
the gospels and Greek lore more as dynamic cultural interaction, the complex random conscious
and unconscious events of learning that occur when people interact and engage in practices
of socialization.
Mimesis is a means for creating shared cultural identity, but we modern readers are culturally
cut off from the storied worlds of sacred story.
As McDonald observes, today we read these texts with the cultural competence radically
different from those for whom they were written.
Ancient readers could detect illusions invisible to all but the best trained classicist.
Even though the detection of mimesis is difficult, it is one of the most valuable contributions
a critic can make for understanding a text.
To be sure, one may profitably read a memetic text for its own sake, but awareness of its
model or models allows one to interpret it more comprehensively, more dialogically.
In the New Moses, Del Allison comments, our historically conditioned deafness to oblique
illusions in the Bible can sometimes lead us to doubt their very existence.
Hearing mimesis is profoundly difficult and endeavors are complicated by the possibility
that we may be hearing what our itching ears want to hear.
Potential pitfalls are legion.
To be sure, McDonald has his critics and Mimesis criticism is not mainstream, yet the prophetic
challenge echoes.
Let the one who has ears to hear listen.
The following attempt at discerning mimesis offers opportunity to listen, see, discover,
and learn from the imitation and inversion of familiar or unfamiliar story.
What follows is a less rigorous, more playful attempt to discern and make sense of possible
mimesis in Mark.
As described in the introduction, the lone word for lego, legion, from the Latin legio,
signals an emulation of Virgil's Aeneid, book eight, which relates the story of Hercules
overcoming the monster Cacus to bring relief and rescue to the people.
Hearing Hercules in Mark five confirms the trajectory of the Gospel as it unfolds in
Mark's telling of Jesus's story.
This play proceeds in three moves.
First, McDonald's seven criteria for detecting dependence on an antecedent text guides and
grounds thinking about the possibility of imitation and inversion.
Second, the narrative immediately preceding Jesus in the garrison demoniac, Jesus calming
a storm, reveals the presence of mimesis in familiar story, the tale of Jonah.
And third, we read between texts to discern what we might learn if we assume the name legion
signals Virgil's story of Hercules and the monster Cacus.
Since both imagery pervades all three stories, Mark four through five, Jonah one and Aeneid eight.
Why not unfurl the metaphor?
We begin by assembling ribs and keel.
Move one, discerning mimesis.
McDonald's proffer seven criteria for guiding mimesis criticism, by which texts are assessed
for evidence that they are direct, extensive, advertised, and hermeneutically freighted
imitations of earlier writings.
The criteria are noted as follows, with some evidence offered to better justify imitation
of Aeneid eight.
One, accessibility.
Was the source text likely available or known?
Did the author likely have access to the model text?
Virgil's masterful yet unfinished epic, The Aeneid, was published after the poet's death in 19 BCE.
Copies of the Latin text disseminated throughout the empire so that by the end of the first century
CE, the epic's pervasive popularity and influence was undeniable.
Inspiring artistic representation and widespread celebration of Rome's founding epic concerning
Hercules, the hero god was the quintessential Greek hero.
In antiquity, he featured in more stories and was represented more frequently in art
than any other hero or god.
He was worshipped by Greeks and Romans, and although the rise of Christianity ultimately
meant the demise of his cult, the hero himself continued to fascinate writers and artists,
who even proclaimed him as a prototype of Christ.
Of importance for this project is the writing of Diodorus Siculus and specifically Book 4
of his Bibliotheca Historica, in which he recounts the labors or trials of Hercules.
This work was likely published in the mid first century BCE, not too distant in time,
from publication of the Aeneid.
Scholars are divided over the date of the composition of Mark, most arguing for a date
between the late 60s and early 70s of the first century CE.
2. Analogy Do others imitate the source text?
Consider first the works previously cited that discern Luke's imitation of Aeneid.
Concerning Hercules, MacDonald offers these observations in his book.
Christianizing Homer The careers of Heracles and Christ
display tantalizing parallels.
Both heroes had divine fathers, Zeus, God, or Yahweh, and mortal mothers, Alchimene, or Mary,
whose actual husbands, Amphitrion, Joseph, were from royal stock and accepted the boys
as their own sons.
Villains, Hera, or Herod, tried to slay the babies in their cradles by serpents, by swords,
but both were spared by precocious flight.
Early in life, both youths traveled to a desolate place to be tempted with a choice
between easy vice and arduous virtue, both chose or choose virtue.
The careers of both heroes consisted largely of extraordinary ordeals that they overcame
through supernatural means.
Having exceeded the wills of their divine fathers, both died violent deaths.
The bodies of neither could be found.
Both became gods, both appeared to mortals after their deaths and both ascended to heaven
in a cloud.
Just as Heracles conquered wild beasts, including the hound Cerberus, whom he fetched from Hades,
Jesus conquered demons and preached in hell.
Greek philosophical schools transformed Heracles, the giant brute, into a paragon of virtue
because he had endured his trials stoically.
So many additional details exist between the two heroes that one probably should relate
both Heracles and Christ to a common heroicology.
3. Density.
Are there sufficient parallels to demonstrate memesis as likely?
Certainly, clear parallels exist between Mark 4 through 5 and the Odyssey.
While parallels between Mark 5 and the Aeneid 8 exist, they are less dense than between Mark
and Homer.
These details will be more fully described below.
4. Order is the sequencing of events similar enough to signify likely memesis.
As with criterion 3, stronger parallels exist between Mark 4 through 5 and Odyssey.
5. Distinctive traits.
Do texts share anything distinctive?
Yes.
A chain presents a distinctive trait between Mark 5 and Aeneid 8.
You will see the chain.
6. Interpretability.
Why does this author imitate the source text?
Is it to rival it?
Etc.
This is the strongest link.
Mark signals the story of Hercules and Cacus to clarify the meaning and trajectory of the
Gospel as described soon to come.
7. Recognition.
Are there ancient or Byzantine recognitions of memesis?
According to Shea, one of the most compelling reasons to explore the works of Virgil in
conjunction with the works of early Christianity is because the early Christians canonized him,
regarding him as one of the pagan saints or prophets whom Jesus rescues from Satan
in the harrowing of hell, hell, amen before the Reformation.
8. Fascinatingly, in the Via Latina catacomb, Hercules is present as a figure in funerary
depictions alongside Jesus and Lazarus.
You can see the images.
They are quite fascinating in ancient art.
9. Mark 4.35-5.20
Offers story as deliverable to children as to wise-end adults.
The story captivates by its power and simplicity, by its provocative and familiar figures,
and by the recognizable message it communicates.
A god-man, asleep in a boat while all the others fear for life, rouses to command wind
and wave, be still and calm is restored.
Those traveling with the god-man wonder, who is this that even the wind and wave obey him?
Arriving at a strange land, their wondermen is enlarged and answered by an unexpected character,
a monster-man tormented and inhabited by a legion of unclean spirits who lives with the
dead, who cannot be chained, who howls, who somehow knows the answer to the question,
who is this?
With a shout, the monster-man names the stranger Jesus, Son of the Most High God.
And he then names himself Legion, and he says, For we are many.
The Son of the Most High God commands the Legion of unclean spirits to leave the man
to enter a herd of swine, pigs, who rush down an embankment and plunge into the sea, all drowned.
As for the monster-man, his humanity is restored, no longer a monster, but a man.
A witness to the Lord's mercy, such a story captivates wide-eyed youths, but has also been
equally and extensively contemplated by academically-minded adults, some of whom have
determined that the section of Mark in which we discover these stories reflects Mimesis,
imitation that signals the epic story of Homer's Odyssey.
Here, I suggest that Virgil's Aeneid is also in view.
After all, as MacDonald puts it, apparently, Mark wished to do for the early Church what
Virgil did for the early Empire.
To provide a compelling narrative about a founding hero like Virgil,
Mark used the Homeric epics among his models, in addition to the Jewish Bible.
I am suggesting that Mark IV, 35, to Mark V, 20 reverberate with echoes of both the Odyssey,
books 9 through 10, and the Aeneid, book 8.
Not only these, but Mark literally imitates the story of Jonah, a fishtail more easily swallowed
as an example of Mimesis.
To demonstrate Mimesis, let's begin with the fishtail.
In Hades, when Odysseus encounters the specter of famed Achilles, he comments on how good the
ghost must have it, worshipped as a god in life, still seemingly revered as one who lords over
the dead in spectral power.
Achilles will have none of it.
He sharply responds, no willing words about death to me.
Shining Odysseus, by God I'd rather slave on earth for another man, some dirt poor
tenant farmer who scrapes to keep alive and rule down here over all the breathless dead.
The words and fate of Achilles leave little hope for good expectation in life after death.
The conversation in Homer, the Odyssey, translation by Robert Fagels, Achilles asked Odysseus
how he, one of the living and matchlessly clever though he is, had contrived to enter
the house of death where the senseless burnout rates of mortals make their home.
Interestingly, Odysseus' words with dead heroes culminates in meeting Heracles, Hercules,
who relates how he had dragged the great beast Cerberus down to guards the dead up from the
underworld to earth and into the light of day.
Heroes like Odysseus invading Death's realm and returning with Boom is a centerpiece of
epic story and myth as has been widely acknowledged and discussed.
As an example, consider Joseph Campbell's capture of the story of Heracles and Hesene of Troy.
The Greek hero Heracles, pausing at Troy on his way homeward with the belt of the queen
of the Amazons, found that the city was being harassed by a monster sent against it by the
sea god Poseidon. The beast would come ashore and devour people as they moved about on the
plane. Beautiful Hesene, the daughter of the king, had just been bound by her father to the
sea rocks as a proprietary sacrifice and the great visiting hero agreed to rescue her for a price.
The monster in due time broke to the surface of the water and opened its enormous mall.
Heracles took a dive into the throat, cut his way out through the belly and left the monster dead.
Heracles
Campbell describes this descent into death as entering the belly of the well,
from which the hero re-emerges, reborn as it were. Heracles willingly enters Death's mall,
but then opens a womb out of which he is born again and others, like Hesene, share in the
salvation or boon afforded by the hero's escape or rebirth out of death. Likely those
familiar with biblical stories immediately associate belly of the well imagery with Jonah,
reluctant prophet who spent three days ruminating in a fish gut time out.
The story of Jonah is a bible story. Indeed, in each of their gospels, Matthew and Luke
explicitly reference the prophet and seem to assume familiarity with the story among their
readers. Mark's gospel does not explicitly refer to Jonah, however the story of Jonah functions
intertextually by the obvious allusion to the Jonah story and the story of Jesus stealing the
storm in all three synoptic gospels, and specifically in Mark who implicitly makes
reference to not only the story of Jonah, but also to Moses and Elijah, both of whom are alluded to
in Jonah as well. To be sure, the story of Jonah offers a compelling narrative and provocative
themes that invert expectation, meaning the prophet as reluctant, salvation not from but
by a monster, salvation extended to unexpected others like Gentiles or Ninevites,
if you're using the gospels comparing it to Jonah's story. A rich subtext from which meaning
and insight percolate into gospel stories as writers and readers make sense of Jesus. Jonah
is indeed a familiar story. Readers familiar with the story are unlikely to be disturbed by
discerning the prophet as intertextual figure in Mark's gospel. Consider the clear allusions to
Jonah presented by Mark 4, 35-41, The Stilling of the Storm. Table one, imitation of Jonah 1
in Mark 4, 35-41. On the left side, Jonah in chapter 1. On the right side, Mark chapter 4, 35-41.
Departure by boat. Jonah boards a ship. Yahweh hurls a great wind upon the sea. Jesus gets in a
boat. A great gale or wind arises. Violent storm at sea. Great storm threatens to break up the ship.
Waves beat into the boat so that it becomes swamped. Sleeping main chamber. Jonah is asleep
in the hold of the ship. Jesus is asleep on a cushion in the stern of the boat. Frightened
crew sailors are afraid and cry out to their gods. The captain wakes Jonah. Disciples wake.
Teacher, do you not care that we are perishing? Miraculous calm related to main character. Jonah
is thrown into the sea. The sea calms. Jesus rebukes wind and waves. The storm calms.
Marvelling response from crew. The sailors fear Yahweh even more. They sacrifice and
offer vows. Disciples are filled with awe and question. Who is this that even the wind and
waves obey him? In Mark, the story of Jesus stealing the storm is saturated with illusion to Jonah.
Yet, the prophet is not explicitly named or referenced. Neither in chapter 4, 35-41, nor
in the rest of the gospel. Yet, Jonah as a backdrop is further confirmed by the prophet's appearance
in Matthew and Luke, where Jesus refers to the sign of Jonah as the only sign offered to an evil
generation who requests a sign. Despite lack of explicit reference to the Jonah story in Mark,
for those with ears to hear the intertextuality, illusion confirms that someone greater than
Jonah is here. But this connection, this confirmation is made clear not only because of imitation,
how Jonah's story provides the setting and imagery for Jesus verse storm and not to derail,
but several scholars have noticed how the myth of Jonah is influenced by the Argonautic myth.
Those are my additions, Myth Vision, and you can go to Bruce Loudon in his book called Homer's Odyssey
and the Near East to find out in chapter 7 where he has a chapter on Odysseus and Jonah,
Sea Monsters and the Fantastic Voyage. But especially because of inversion,
how the story of Jesus turns Jonah's story on its head to create new meaning.
Consider the following distinctions or inverted aspects between the Jonah and Jesus stories.
Look at the charts, Jonah's on the left, Mark's on the right. Let's start with the left and I'll
read left to right and move downward. Jonah tries to escape the presence of Yahweh by fleeing on a
boat. Jesus reveals or embodies the divine presence by his command over the elements.
Jonah boards the boat to avoid proclaiming a message to the non-Hebrew Ninevites.
Jesus boards the boat to cross to the other side, the Gentile country of the garrisons.
Jonah sleeps in the belly of the ship. There is concern that he should wake and do something.
Jesus sleeps in the stern of the ship on a cushion. There is concern that he should wake
and do something. The sailors question Jonah, who are you? Where are you from? Who are your people?
The disciples call Jesus teacher. Then question, who is this? Leave in the wind and wave, obey him.
The sailors fear angering the God by killing an innocent man. The disciples fear that they
themselves perishing. Jonah is thrown overboard and the raging storm subsides. Jesus himself commands
the raging storm. Peace be still and the storm subsides. Jonah is swallowed and saved by a great
fish and spends three days in the belly of the well. Jesus is not swallowed by a great fish and
does not spend time in the belly of the well. To be sure, despite imitation at the end of Mark
4, Jesus is not swallowed by a great fish and does not spend time in the belly of a well.
Echoes of Jonah generate anticipation that a belly of the well experience approaches.
Readers, hearers, must look, listen, wait for it. In this case, the belly of the well,
a heroic confrontation with death, is made evident in Mark 5 through playful memesis
with Aeneid 8, where Hercules, not Jesus, dives headlong into the thick smoke darkness
of a fierce monster's lair, a move that anticipates Jesus' own descent into Hades.
Story of Christ's underworld journey that came to be a central aspect of the early centuries of
Christian faith. If Mark, moving beyond the Hebrew Scriptures, we anticipate, signals
story from Homer and Virgil, then memesis helps Mark make sense of the meaning of the cross.
And if, as Cole Pepper claims, close examination of the Gospel of Mark shows that the shadow of
the cross falls across the entire Gospel, so that every pericope points ahead to the cross
and must be understood in its light, then memesis offers a sense-making strategy for discerning
what Mark means by Gospel of Jesus Christ. The concept of death and rebirth is prominent within
the legend of Heracles, and it is closely connected to the concept of Cleus. This is illustrated in
two places that feature the story of Heracles. The first place, as narrated by Diodorus, depicts
Heracles descending into Hades, whereupon he captures and delivers Cerberus from the place
of darkness, death to the place of light, life. It is not uncommon within Greek tragedy and other
genres for a character to enter into Hades, only to return again later. Perversing from
earth into Hades and back is meant to depict the process of death and resurrection, which
was understood as the ultimate form of Cleus. The story of Heracles' resurrection ends with his
being awakened in Olympus, where he is welcomed amongst the gods as one of their own. And so,
the immortality that is often expressed in Greek literature with regard to Cleus is most
explicitly illustrated in the life and death of Heracles.
Story about the identity of Jesus is to be told and understood in light of his death and resurrection.
I want to suggest that what Mark, Luke, and others are doing by putting stories about Jesus
into conversation with stories from the Hebrew Bible and also with Greek and Roman mythos,
what they are doing is profoundly rooted in a clear-eyed understanding of the meaning of the
cross, the gospel of Jesus' death and resurrection. It may be that it is difficult for us to recognize
what they are doing, how and why they so playfully engage and imitate story, because we ourselves
are missing a clear-eyed understanding of the meaning of the gospel. McDonald's mythologizing
Jesus entertains a possibility that the Mark 5 story of Jesus exercising a demoniac possessed by
a legion of unclean spirits exhibits intentional mimesis of Odyssey books 9 and 10, where Odysseus
overcomes first a monstrous cyclops, Polyphemus, and then a bewitching queen, Cersei. McDonald
captures elements of mimesis in this chart, with a bit added for clarification. Table 3,
Mimesis between Mark and Odyssey 9 and 10. Again, as before, we are going to read Odyssey 9 and 10
on the left and the narration to the right with Mark working from top to bottom. In the first case,
there is nothing on the Odyssey side, so we start with Mark. This narrative is immediately
preceded by a story of Jesus asleep in a boat as winds howl and waves rage. Jesus wakes and
calms the storm, provoking the response, who is this that even the wind and waves obey him?
Odyssey. Odysseus and his crew sail to the land of the Cyclops and of Cersei. Jesus and his disciples
sail to the region of the garrisons. On the mountain of the Cyclopes, countless goats grazed.
Cersei turned Odysseus' comrades into swine. On the mountains, a large herd of swine gazed.
About 2000. Odysseus and crew went ashore. Jesus and his disciples went ashore. They discovered
a savage, lawless giant who lived in a cave. They discovered a lawless, demon-possessed man who
lived among the caves. Polyphemus usually was depicted nude. The name Polyphemus means something
like many voices or much speaking. Mark, the man was nude. Cersei recognized Odysseus and asked
him not to harm her. The giant asked if Odysseus had come to harm him. The man recognized Jesus
and asked him not to harm him. The giant asked Odysseus his name. Jesus asked the man his name.
Odysseus answered, Nobody. The cleverness here is in the wordplay Utes. Nobody is a plan Odysseus.
The man answered, Legion. Legion for we are many. Ligeon is a Latin term, not a Greek term. Odysseus
subdued the giant with violence and trickery. Cersei had turned Odysseus's soldiers to swine.
Odysseus overcame Cersei with a special gift from Hermes, a flower that made
ineffectual her magic of transformation. Jesus subdued the demons with a word and sent them
into the swine and then into the lake. The shepherd, Cyclops, called out to his neighbors.
The swine herds reported to his neighbors. The Cyclops came to the site asking about Polyphemus's
sheep and goats. The neighbors came to the site to find out about their swine. Odysseus and his
crew boarded ship. Jesus and his disciples boarded ship. Odysseus told the giant to broadcasts that
he had blinded him. Jesus told the hilt monster man to broadcast what God had done for him.
The giant asked Odysseus now on the ship to come back. The man asked Jesus now on ship if he could
be with him. Odysseus refused the request. Jesus refused the request. Odysseus and his crew
sailed away. Jesus and his disciples sailed away. Odysseus awoke during a storm in the
episode immediately following Polyphemus. Wind and wave against Odysseus.
To be sure, some may feel that the presentation of information in McDonald's book can feel tedious.
Charks like this, making comparisons between text, it could seem a bit stretched. While I
myself find McDonald's work exciting, provocative, and insightful, his observations sometimes leave
me with questions. Why imitate this particular story at all? What's the intention behind this
example of Mimesis? McDonald's suggests that Mark intends readers to mark Jesus as superior to Homer's
hero Odysseus. Whereas Odysseus blinded a monster, Jesus made a monster sane.
Similarly, Cersei turned soldiers into swine for eating, but Jesus cast the legion of demons
into the swine to return the madman to sanity. Here again, Jesus is a hero of compassion.
So in this explanation, we do get a sense of inversion as the energy, the intent behind
Mimesis, tells a familiar story, but undue expectation through inversion, revealing the
superior character and power of Jesus as hero. And Mimesis is not allegory, as if the demon-possessed
man is analogous to the Cyclops, or Jesus is analogous to Odysseus, because in Mimesis,
there's too much blurring of the lines. For example, Odysseus and his men rush out of the
cave on the bellies of beasts and race for the water to make their escape. But in Mark,
demons enter swine and rush headlong to the water and drown, or Odysseus shares Cersei's
bed after she makes an oath not to harm him. But in Mark, request for a similar oath has a
very different outcome, even though one of the characters is already naked. Yet the question
persists. Why Mimesis with this particular story? It's not a stretch to conclude that Jesus is
more compassionate than Odysseus. Many are more compassionate than Odysseus. Just read the Odyssey
and see. Odysseus does not set a very high bar. To make sense of Mimesis, we might suggest that
Xenia, or the broken hospitality central to the story between Odysseus and Polyphemus,
is the point of Mark's narrative. Despite his clear power over demons, the people of the region
want Jesus and his crew out of there immediately. Their lack of hospitable welcome is judged in
light of the Mimesis. Or we might suggest that power over the monstrous is the point of Mimesis.
If Odysseus is able to best a monster and tame a sorceress through trickery and violence,
how much superior to him is Jesus, who commands a horde of demons with only a word. Now we may be
getting closer to discerning intent behind Mimesis, but surely Mimesis is more than a device to convey
superiority of compassion or power. Why this Mimesis of the Monsters Cave? I want to suggest
a linguistic clue that may reveal that this isn't the only Monsters Cave Mark has in view.
The name Legion has long mystified scholars. Ligeo is a Latin term describing a company
within the Roman army comprising around 5,000 soldiers. So of course, many, many demons like
soldiers acting in concert to colonize this man might well be considered a Legion. While Luke's
telling of this same story includes the name Legion, Matthew completely drops this name from his
version of the story, which is interesting since he deploys the term later in his gospel to describe
the Legion of Angels that might save Jesus if he chose to call for rescue. The voices of scholars
trying to make sense of Legion are many and their variety of approaches begs the question,
why the sudden odd insertion of this Roman military imperial term into the story of Mark 5 1-20?
Legion as noted is a Latin term, a term with specific militaristic imperialistic reference
above we attended to Mimesis with the Odyssey. And while my name is Legion for we are many,
might point to Polyphemus, whose name means many voices. Could it be that Mark's Latinism
here signals a different story? A Roman story to which we ought to attend.
In his Aeneid, Virgil certainly imitated Odysseus' counter with the Cyclopes, Caesar
Augustus, the first Roman emperor commissioned Virgil to compose the Aeneid, an epic poem in
Latin that accounts the journey of heroic Aeneas, whose faded flight from Troy ultimately initiates
the founding of Rome. Much of the Aeneid is Vaticanium Exe eventu, storytelling that depicts
known history as if prophesied about in the distant past. Twice in the epic, a tongue of fire
ignites above the heads of characters who anticipate the coming of a kingdom.
Roman rule as it is established throughout centuries and culminates in Augustus and the
Pax Romana, Roman peace throughout the world. The Aeneid was no mere story, much like the works
of Homer. The Aeneid carried and conveyed Roman values. Indeed, Augustus intended the epic as a
means for return to traditional moral values, not least the piety and manliness they understood
as necessary for properly ordering the world, and Virgil's mimesis of Iliad and Odyssey is rich
and playful and creative. Aeneas is portrayed as hero far surpassing Odysseus in all ways,
in cleverness, morality, virility, and devotion. So in book three of the Aeneid,
readers are not surprised to discover Aeneas arriving upon the Cyclopes shore,
just as Odysseus had done. Yet here we encounter not a polyphemous like monster, but a man,
a Greek, one of Odysseus's sailors who had been left behind by his commander.
Sailor begs kind Aeneas to take him on board and away from this cursed land. Though the Greeks had
been Troy's bane and brought death and destruction to Aeneas's family, home and people, Aeneas
welcomes the sailor, demonstrating care of the stranger, far superior to the hospitality
displayed between Odysseus and Polyphemus. In the end, the monster does show up and the Greek,
together with the Trojans, make a harrowing escape. But in the Aeneid, this is not the only
instance of a mimesis of the polyphemous story, and it is to this instance that I want to draw our
attention. Indeed, I am suggesting that Mark's unexpected deployment of the Latin term legion
is itself intended to signal that we are to pay attention to Aeneid. Book eight seems to me
the heart of Aeneid. This is where Aeneas receives his armor from Venus, his mother,
armor divinely engraved with the living history of Rome, all that is to come,
flashing forth from the shield of Aeneas as vibrant Vatacinium exeventu,
armed literally with his destiny. Aeneas is equipped to battle legions. At the end of book seven,
we see armies gathering for a battle that will decide the fate of future Rome. And both here,
and early in book nine, the word legio or legion is used to describe the forces gathering for war.
Early in book eight, Aeneas is instructed by the river god to journey up the Tiber and beseech
the help of a people there who will ally with them for battle. Aeneas makes the journey and the
people he encounters are sitting down to a great feast, a yearly rite of celebration and thanks
giving or a savior who rid their land of a terrible monster. As Aeneas sits down to feast and enjoys
their hospitality, he is told the story of Hercules, worshipped as a god here who defeated
Cacus, a fierce monster who had been terrorizing the people and stealing their cattle. The name
Cacus is a play on the Greek word for bad or evil. And the story that ensues is clearly
mimetic of the Odyssey in its description of the gore filled cave where Cacus resides.
To illustrate Virgil's mimesis of Odyssey, first listen to this exchange between Odysseus and
Polyphemus as he and his men reach their boat in attempt to make escape. They swung aboard,
they sat to the oars in rank and in rhythm churned the water white with stroke on stroke,
but once offshore, as far as a man's shout can carry, I called back to the Cyclops, singing tons.
So Cyclops, no weak coward it was whose crew you bent to devour, there in the vaulted cave,
with you your brute force, your filthy crimes came down on your own head, you shameless cannibal,
daring to eat your guests in your own house. So Zeus and the other gods have paid you back,
that made the rage of the monster boil over. Ripping off the peak of a towering crag, he heaved
it so hard the boulder landed just in front of our dart prowl and a huge swell reared up as the
rock went plunging under a tidal wave from the open sea. The sudden backwash drove us
landward again, forcing us close inshore, but grabbing a long pole thrust us off and away,
tossing my head for dear life, signaling crews to put their backs in the oars, escape grim death.
Odyssey 9, 527 to 545. Now back to the Aeneid where the hero is told that Hercules finally
discovered the cave of Cacus, but the monster had run inside and had broken the chain that
suspended a great boulder above the cavern's entrance, a stone so massive that not even Hercules
could push it away. Indeed, the god man tried three times to move the stone but could not,
but Hercules was undaunted and we ought to pay attention to what happens next, because I think
this is what Mark wants us to hear as he imitates this story in the story of Jesus and Legion.
Hercules gnatched his teeth and peered all over for a way in. A flint spire with the rocks cut off
on all sides rose from the cave's roof, dizzying to see a fitting place for ghastly birds to nest.
It slanted from the ridge above the river on the left, a wrenching from the right he freed it and
tore it from its roots and shoved it over the heights of heaven, thundered with the impact.
The stream fled backward, terrified the banks burst. Now Cacus' cavernous palace was laid open.
Its shadowy depths exposed as if some power should split the earth, clear the habitations of
Hades and uncover that pale kingdom the gods hate. From above the huge abyss would show
and spirits tremble at the light. The monster then, caught in the sudden daylight in the rocky hole,
had never howled like this as Hercules harassed him from above with everything at hand. Hercules
pinned and throttled the monster until his eyes popped and his throat was dry and bloodless.
Now with the doors torn off the black layer opened, the heavens saw looted cows he tried to hide.
The hideous corpse was pulled out by the feet. Men could not satisfy their hearts with gazing
upon the defeated monster. Virgil the Aeneid 8.229.265. Pause and consider what we just heard
recounted. A god man breaks open a cavernous hell to expose the monster and the gore,
strewn cave to daylight. A comparison is made to what might happen if the same event were to
expose Hades so that blinking ghosts are left trembling in unanticipated light. This is precisely
what becomes the story of Christ's victory, where the cross like a Trojan horse becomes
transport for the god of light. Transport down into death and Hades, where iron doors are torn
open and darkness is forever transformed so that Hades and death no longer hold ultimate destiny
for human souls. Darkness transformed by light, the monster exposed, uncovered, defeated. Where
O death is thy victory, thy sting. Another element in Mark's story helps confirm the intentional
memesis here. The man possessed by Legion is said to have always broken his restraining chains.
Nowhere in the Polyphemus narrative are broken chains mentioned, but here in the Caucus story,
the monster breaks the chains suspending the great boulder. Those familiar with these stories
hear how playful memesis generates meaning upon meaning, deepens the implications of Jesus
healing this demoniac as if the story was ever intended to be heard as mere historical narrative.
No, the story is a delivery device for the gospel itself. The good news of a god man who
saves not only some from the evil Caucus, but who saves all by trampling over death and Hades.
What have you to do with me, Jesus, son of the Most High God? I adjure you by God, do not torment me.
Legion's question and request might well be our own, but we know the end of the story,
a story with a good news ending, and legions make escape from that foul cavern squealing.
So here at the end I return to the problem with which we began. It may be that it is difficult
for us to recognize what Mark and others are doing by memesis, how and why they so playfully
engage and imitate story, because we ourselves don't really have a clear-eyed understanding
of the meaning of the gospel. But this reread of Mark 5 encourages me, and when I meet my own 21st
century Achilles, one who worries over death and in despair breathes the words, by God I'd rather
slave on earth than rule downstairs over all the breathless dead, then I can ask,
Hey, have you heard the one about Christus Victor? It's a hell of a story.
Playful memesis generates meaning upon meaning, deepens the implications of story as delivery
device for truth. While our unfamiliarity with ancient and classical story hinders
recognition of memesis, it may be that it is difficult for us to recognize what gospel
writers are doing by memesis, how and why they so playfully engage and imitate story,
because we ourselves don't really have a clear-eyed understanding of the meaning of the gospel.
But story can be playful because truth is not fully captured by words. In the beginning was the
word, God as one who lives behind and above and among and within our words, but never exclusively
as our words. So understanding my own just so stories as myth reminds me that they resonate
with and point to and are sometimes incarnations of the word, but they are not the word, not
exclusively truth, because truth is not fully capturable as words. I truly hope you enjoyed
this entire documentary which is based around Chris Rosser's work. Chris Rosser is a Christian
and he recognizes the playful beauty and imitation as they colorfully mythologize narrative in a new
context. We live in a day where apologists day in and day out argue for literal truth and those on
the opposite spectrum of being atheist or antagonistic to the Christian position also
get caught up in this literalist interpretation, categorizing the New Testament, the Hebrew
scriptures in this literalistic fashion. By doing so, I think we have lost sight of what these texts
are doing and how they are colorfully rewriting mythos and packaging it into new contexts.
If we do that, we can get away from necessarily the back and forth,
apologist, anti-apologist rhetoric, and we can find meaning upon meaning layer upon layer of
interesting ideas that we can apply to our own lives today. I wanted to highlight a Christian's
work because I can see in this what I think is happening and is true. As someone who calls
themselves an atheist, I don't want to just create a community of people who only think like me in
regards to ontology. I want a community of people made up of theist, agnostic, atheist, you name it,
wherever you're at, that can recognize without that fundamentalism of literalist history needing
to be the case. Let's take back the ancient literature, bring back the humanities if you will,
and find common ground with people who are willing to go where they see the evidence point,
away from the absurdities of literalistic thinking pertaining to these stories.
And with that being said, I truly hope you appreciate what I try to do.
