We are MythVision. Welcome back to MythVision Podcast. Derek Lambert, your host, ladies
and gentlemen. We're going to be talking to Dr. Imdavid Litwa about his book, The Evil
Creator. It is an absolute must read. I swear on it. Okay. I say this all the time to you
guys. Like, hey, this is a book you should check out. You should get this book. It is
up there at the top and his writing style is absolutely unique. I enjoy even the first
two chapters will blow your mind. So highly recommend getting The Evil Creator Imdavid
Litwa or Dr. Litwa, if I may. Welcome back to MythVision.
Thanks for having me, Derek. Good to be here.
Thank you. Thank you. So I don't even really know exactly how to begin this because it's a
deep topic, but I feel like the best way to do it is pitch it in a way so people understand why
this is a valid and important topic. The first thing we should do, I think, is let everyone know
that we are against anything anti-Semitic. Okay. Anyone who's against a people groups,
you may not agree with the religion, but as far as people, there was a lot of that has happened
in history, even before the first century. Before, well, first century AD and second century AD,
there was anti-Semitic writings against the Jews, and we are against that. Though we're going to
be discussing some of this because that's pertinent to the topic at hand as to how people viewed the
God of the Jews and things like that. I had to lay that out there as a fair letting everybody know.
Also, oh, go ahead, please. Oh, I appreciate that. Yeah, that's very important that
people who became anti-creator were anti-Judean deity. That doesn't necessarily mean that one should
sort of cross a bridge and then make implications about being anti-Jewish, that those are two very
different things. Although in antiquity, some people did cross that bridge. Yeah, in the modern
period, that is recognized as not right and not ethical. So I appreciate you saying that.
Absolutely. I just want to make sure everybody knows. Also, make sure you get the book.
So it's on Amazon. I know it's pricey. I understand that. So does Dr. Litwa. If you can afford it,
you won't be let down. This is not his price making. Obviously, the publisher comes up with the
prices. And maybe as we continue, the general public starts to purchase more academia works.
Maybe they'll wake up and smell the coffee and see that more people are interested in these
topics than they have a clue about. Join the Patreon. I have tons of videos. This is just one
I just popped up here with Dennis MacDonald and Richard Carrier as an example. But I mean,
literally hundreds, I probably have like 500 videos that haven't made it onto YouTube that
are on the Patreon. Help us out. And then the upcoming Christmas webinar, December the 5th,
all day. I might even be hosting that for Dr. Bart de Ehrman. Did the Christmas story actually
happen? Did Jesus, like, are these completely mythical? Is there any historical kernels? All
of that fun stuff, you can get Q&A to join and go ask. And if you missed the live, that's fine.
You could sign up for the webinar at any point and watch it later on. Go down in the description
of this video and you can check it out. So Dr. Litla, there's my little upfront little plugs.
This picture. What's this picture about?
Well, that is Seth or Seth. That's a particularly Egyptian deity who has what appears to be
an unidentified animal head. But most Greeks in antiquity identified it with the head of a donkey
or of an ass, if you prefer. And they borrowed this Egyptian idea that Seth was
a sort of the evil creator, the Egyptian version of the evil creator. If any of your
viewers know Egyptian mythology, Seth is most famous for killing the god of resurrection,
who is Osiris, by shutting him up into a giant coffin, sealing it with lead and letting him
starve to death. And then when he found it again, he chopped up Osiris' body and put it up, put it
in 42 different areas of Egypt. Seth is not a very positive figure. He is god of chaos associated
with red. There's even a good decent movie out there. I think it's called Gods of Egypt, which
portrays Seth pretty well. He is a bad dude. And he's been a god for much longer than Christianity
has ever existed. And so the interesting thing when thinking about the evil creator is, although
in some respects, the evil creator is a Christian idea, or if you prefer a nasty Christian idea,
one of the things that's important to recognize is that it has a backstory, and that backstory can be
accessed through going into Egyptian mythology. Because the Egyptians and the Jews in the Hellenistic
period, that is after Alexander the Great and before Caesar Augustus, they got into some conflict.
And as if some of your viewers know the Exodus story, the Jews like to tell the story. They still
do. It's very important for their idea of national consciousness and group identity.
But the Egyptians in the Exodus story end up looking very poorly, and Yahweh kills, ends up
killing every firstborn Egyptian son, which is a pretty unconscionable act. That's only the culmination
of plaguing them with nine other plagues, including turning the entire Nile into
red thick blood and casting darkness over the earth. And since Seth was also identified with
these chaotic elements like blood, red color, and a lack of fertility drying up elements,
war, plague, since Seth was also associated with those elements in native Egyptian mythology.
When Egyptians read Exodus, they intuited that Yahweh, that is the Judean deity, was actually
a version of their Seth deity. And so it's no surprise that we come to hear stories told by
Greeks and Romans that in the ancient temple of Yahweh, in Jerusalem, it wasn't empty. In fact,
it was filled with, it contained, that is a particular statue, there's disagreement about
the statue. Some said that it was an old man riding on a donkey. Some said that it was a golden
image of Yahweh himself with the donkey head, basically Yahweh as Seth. And that's the big secret
that the Jews don't, that is the ancient Jews didn't want other people to know about, that their
deity was actually the Egyptian Seth. And they kept that secret because the high priest only went
into the inner sanctum once a year. And when he came out, he told no one what he saw.
This, oh, there's so much historically as to how this polemic plays. Do you think there's any
historical reality to that? Or is this probably completely polemical? So this is a polemic, right?
So stories, myths that people tell about each other can be weaponized. And this is a classic
example. So the Egyptians perceived the Jewish Exodus story, as it's now contained in the Bible,
as a weapon against Egyptian culture. So they fought back, right? Good point. And they
created a weaponized version of their myth. And in their myth, Yahweh was not a good God.
He kills people. He plagues people. He strikes people like a monster. And the Egyptians are the
ones who have to pay for that. So from the Egyptian perspective, Yahweh is an evil being
a God of chaos who leads his people out of Egypt. Yes. But it's because those people were Egyptians
themselves and rebelled against the government and were subject to a plague themselves.
And were actually expelled from Egypt because they were diseased. That's the story of the Exodus
that the anti-Judaian Egyptians told. Like Manetho. Sorry. Like Manetho. Like Manetho,
like other figures. And if you read Josephus, whom I'm sure many of your readers are or your
viewers are familiar with, if you read Josephus, he writes that tract against Apion, named after
the Apus bull, is an Egyptian man who wrote some anti-Judaian literature in the first century.
That is right around the time of Jesus. And at the end of the first century, Josephus takes
him to task. And in the course of doing that, Josephus reveals that there was a huge long-lasting
Egyptian animus and a mythology against the Judeans. And part of that mythology was that
the God Yahweh was an evil God with an ass head who was God of chaos.
Okay. So this also goes to Antiochus Epiphanes. If I'm not mistaken, he ends up conquering
Judea. He conquers the temple. And supposedly, the story goes that he sacrifices a pig
on the altar to defile this was the abomination of desolation, so to speak, that we see place in
Daniel. Is there any polemic there even Daniel seems to be familiar with of Antiochus and his
abuse of the Jerusalem temple? Do you think? It's actually the way that the stories go. It's
actually not Antiochus 4, but a later ruler also called Antiochus, later ruler of Syria,
who breaks into the Jerusalem and wants to get inside the temple. And this is a theme,
as stories are told and we're told. The same story is actually told, incidentally, of the
Roman ruler Pompey the Great, who is another person who took over Jerusalem. They all seem to
want to get into the Holy of Holies. And they are all told politely, no, sorry, you can't get in
there. And this is what raised this incredible curiosity among the Romans and the Greeks that,
well, what do you got in there? I mean, why can't we see it? I mean, our temples are public.
You can come in, the Parthenon, you can come in and see the statue that we have inside. It's a
10 meter statue or a 40 foot statue of Athena. And we've got nothing to hide. So what are you
guys hiding? And this was, this all created a lot of conspiracy theories in the ancient world
that the Judean leadership doesn't want any non Jew, in fact, not only non Jews, but anyone who's
not of the elite to actually enter and see what's inside the Holy of Holies. And so the conspiracy
was that the inner sanctum of the Jews was actually not empty, that it had a statue there.
And that statue was the statue of Seth. Interesting. Yeah, there's so much here you wrote in your book.
And I really, really enjoy you talk about how Suhtoni or Tacitus is mentioning this as well.
He's still ripping on this theme. And we're right around the Josephus period, right into the first
century time. This whole notion begs us to get into the New Testament text. This is the reason
I wanted us to start with that. Many Christians believe, and I thought this as well, that anything
that was not on the path of orthodoxy corrupted what was actually true. So the text of the Bible,
when I was Protestant, this is much further down the line, but either way, the Bible has
a standard. We were taught that the understanding of it by the Orthodox Church, Trinitarian,
the idea about Jesus, et cetera, was true. And that all of these groups, what we call Gnostics,
these people who are heretics, the people who did not see Jesus as divine, et cetera,
they were purposely protesting against the facts that the text teaches. In this book,
you're actually going, no actually, there is precedence within the New Testament
if we actually take what it's saying and see that that's what's going on, which we touched on last
time. You are of the father of the devil, and this is the god of the Jews, or your father is the
father of the devil, something to that effect. So with that being in mind, I did want to mention
one more thing, and I want to pitch it to you. Me and my buddy, Neil from Gnostic Informant,
I told him some of this stuff, and we were getting into the text, and I said,
I wonder, because I've had Rabbi Tobias Singer, I've had other scholars on who talk about the
New Testament being loaded with anti-Semitism. It wasn't just one book, even Elaine Pagels comes on,
and she even is going into Matthew thinking it's there as well, not just John, which we'd go,
but that's the most Jewish gospel. But this is where it gets really interesting. If the
ass argument is something that is polemical, probably from Gentiles of some sort, and Gentiles
are entering the church around the time this literature is showing up, is it possible to you
that Jesus riding on an ass into the city that's going to be destroyed, Jerusalem,
is potentially this kind of imagery that you have the writer of the donkey
into the city, which they're going to deny him, and he's going to destroy them. Could that be
something there, potentially? Well, that's a good question. It's sort of like an allegorical reading,
though, right? It's like the gospel writers would have had to know that this was a symbol of Seth,
and that they then were kind of cheeky and creative in putting Jesus on a symbol of Seth,
and then having him be brought into Jerusalem as sort of like the great transgressor of Judaism.
I would be wary of that reading because, I mean, I think,
yeah, so those who would see the donkey as an image of Seth would be
Greek and Roman writers who are familiar with Egyptian culture, and where I would direct the
question is, if we're interested in this kind of symbology, then we need to focus on Egypt
specifically and the city of Alexandria. That is an area where Christians we know,
like when they spread through to Rome and to other areas, we know that they were in Alexandria first,
so because Alexandria is a lot closer to Jerusalem than Rome is, but the interesting
thing about earliest Alexandria and Christianity is it's a completely dark period, meaning that,
as the famous German historian, Walter Bauer, said,
that somebody in later church history didn't want people to know what early Christians were doing
in Alexandria. The very first Christian theologians we know in Alexandria have all been de-Christianized
and called Gnostic. Their names are Valentinas, Vastalites, and Carpocrates, all of them early
second century. They are not the beginning of a tradition, they are the end point of something
that began in Alexandria. When the form of Christianity, and remember there's no creeds,
there's no councils, there's no priests at this point, there's only house churches and individual
leaders, so that the question would then be focused on, well, could a reader of the Gospels
that might have been written in Syria or Rome, but when they get to Alexandria,
could they have made that connection because they are much more informed by Egyptian culture?
Possibly. We don't have any attestation of symbolic readings of that donkey as Seth,
but that would certainly be interesting. And Jesus, I think what we need to be aware of is that
the image of Yahweh as Seth is probably conceived to be called anti-Semitic. And so we'd need to be
very careful in saying that we'd need proof that this was another instance of Christian anti-Semitism.
And we just need data and evidence in the ancient world to make that case.
Right. We can make guesses all day long and interpretations. However, you're looking for
historical precedence for that kind of interpretation, and you haven't found any.
No. I think early Christians were, especially in Egypt, were well aware of the traditions of
Yahweh, actually his secret identity being Seth, and that that's where that was an influence in
early Christian theories of the evil creator, because some early Christians, later demonized
and called Gnostics, did view the Judean creator as an evil being. And then the big question is,
well, how do you get from point A to point B? Because a bunch of other Christians in other
areas are just assuming that the Judean deity is the Christian high god, that Yahweh is just
the dude that's in charge. But then other Christians are saying, no, no, no, no, no. There's a god of
Jesus Christ, whom he talked about. And then there's a Judean deity who's local, who's always been
local, always been the sort of protector of Israel as a nation. But there's a god beyond God,
and that's the god of Jesus Christ. That's the god we worship. That's the universal god.
And then the next step is actually the Judean god. He sort of looks like an idiot. Some people
said that. Some people said he was just. Some Christians said that, well, he's a just god,
but he's not a nice one. He's not kind. He's not loving like the god of Jesus Christ. And then
some people took it, some Christians took it even a step further and said, you know what? He's outright
evil. So is it possible that the catalyst of 70 AD plays a significant role in this divide?
Imagine Jews, you know, getting what happens in 70 AD. Like, where's your god at? And obviously,
because they're monotheists, they have to explain why their god did this. And it's their sin,
the punishing just wrath of their god upon themselves. And of course, Christians say it's
due to you neglecting and rejecting Jesus. So is there is, is there early discussion about this?
What happened in 70 AD? Is this evil creator did this to you? Does that play any role?
Well, that's, that's an excellent question, because a lot of people view the evil creator
as so radical that they that they say, well, this has to be based on real social experiences.
And the fact is, when you look at Jewish history in the period between 66 and 135,
it's a terrible time to be Jewish in the Greco-Roman world. You have a big rebellion in Judea,
beginning in 66. It ends up with the temple being torched. It doesn't end until 73. It's an immense
war, years and years long, that totally decimates the Jews and could easily be interpreted as a
complete and utter failure of the Jewish deity to protect his own people against the sort of
godless enemy, in this case, the Romans. But that's not it. In terms of Jewish history,
there's a huge diaspora revolt that is a revolt that actually begins in
Cyrene, which is in North Africa. It goes over to Alexandria in Egypt. And this happens in
between 115 and 117. And this ends up in basically a sort of a holocaust for the Jews in Egypt,
because the Emperor Trajan sends out his best generals and basically just kills Jews left
and right. And so the Jews who had lived in Alexandria, and we think that they were sizable
population, 100,000 people were all butchered at this period. And then in 132, we have a second
Judean revolt, and this one is also cruelly, devastatingly put down. So it's a bad period
for Jews and Judeans. And easily one could say, Jesus, their God is not doing it for them.
I think the Greco-Roman reaction would be, on one level, the Jewish deity is weak.
Or the typical reaction for insiders is to say, we humans, that is, must have done something wrong.
But then there is also that other option. Actually, the God we worship is evil. And he's
been tricking us this whole time, because he's been trying to convince us that we're going to rule
the world, that we're going to defeat our enemies, that we're going to live in peace and paradise
right here with the world capital and Jerusalem. And that never happened. I mean,
it's just like a pipe dream. So you could imagine some people as saying,
enough is enough, some Jews and Christians saying, enough is enough. This God isn't really God.
He's evil. And that's a possibility. Do you think that the Apostle Paul is working off of this
polemic, this issue, because Gnostics later claim, and this may just be a total disconnect,
they want to have apostolic succession from Paul, whereas others have the apostolic
succession from Peter, is all of that later embellishment, or do you think the Apostle Paul
out the gate might be tapping into this polemic, this issue between Jew and Gentile, and that here
he sees this God potentially as an evil creator? I don't know, because he's not a very big fan of
the laws, it seems, and it just depends on how you're looking at Paul. So I guess I'm asking you
also, you must not be a big fan of, based on what I've been reading, like probably not a big fan of
Paul within Judaism, School of Thought, you're probably more akin to Paul seems to be doing an
elbow against the law. What are your thoughts? I just threw you a bunch of stuff to hope
something sticks in all of that. No, I mean, I agree with the mainstream views that Paul was a Jew
and considered himself a Jew, and since he dies in the early 60s, he doesn't experience any of the
horrors of the Jewish war, and this 60 year period of great suffering for the Jews between,
say, 70 and 135. He doesn't see any of that. So he's not perceiving any of that and is not
influenced by any of that. I think in his own time, a so-called mainstream Jew would view Paul
as a renegade, as someone who basically had excommunicated himself from Judaism because
of his attitude toward Torah and to Torah obedience. And so from their perspective,
he was a transgressor, and Paul says himself that he got his butt whipped. Five times,
he was basically whipped in synagogue situations that received 39 lashes. So we can tell that
Jews of his day are not perceiving him as a particularly good Jew, but there's no question
that he was a Jew, and if modern scholars want to emphasize that Jewish element, that's fine.
But there's also the obvious, I think, point that Paul, because of his attitude toward the law,
makes possible a new vision of a religion which can now detach itself from the sort of mother
religion, if you please. And that is what allows for a tremendous influx of Gentiles.
That's not anti-Jewish, but Paul does say some pretty strange things sometimes. For instance,
in Galatians 319, he seems to indicate that the law wasn't mediated directly from God, but was
mediated by angels, which means that the law really probably isn't the Word of God. It's spoken by
angels, angels who, I don't know, we don't have any reason to think that they're evil, but it's not
like the final revelation, and some angels actually can be evil. So occasionally, Paul seems to,
yeah, he's definitely pushing a certain envelope. And then people reading Paul,
who are fully Gentile, like Marcian, who is the major sort of thinker in part two of the evil
creator, they then say, and Marcian grew up in Pontus, which is in north-central Turkey.
Marcian had no real connection to Judaism that we know of. And so he had no love or loyalty
toward the Jewish or Judean deity. He didn't grow up thinking that the Judean deity was his deity.
He didn't think that the Judean deity, he didn't owe him anything. He wasn't raised in Torah. He
wasn't raised in Jewish traditions. So when he finally got to reading the Old Testament, it's similar
to like an American today who never went to church, never went to synagogue, and who at age 30
just picked up the Old Testament and started reading. And it's like, who the heck is this deity?
I mean, it's sort of like a fresh experience. And then saying, well, geez, this deity is
claiming to be the only God, but he's actually a monster, sort of like that kind of a
reading. And that seems to be, that seems to be what's, what's going on.
Wow. Yeah, that's, I could imagine running across some of the things that you would in your first
run with the Bible or with the Hebrew Bible, you would probably think that unless you were
in Israelite and you were thinking somehow you were able to blame yourself every time and that's
what they did. The Phoebianites, and you talk about this birth of Mary or the secret gospel of
Mary as well. Can you tell us a little bit about the Phoebianites? Am I saying that right?
Yeah, Phoebianites are, we know about them from Epiphanius, who's writing a heresiologist
writing in the late fourth century. And he says that this particular group of Christians in Egypt
who were at one time integrated into the Catholic Church of that time, they had a text called the
Birth of Mary. And in that text, which we think predated the Phoebianite use of it, but in that
text, the High Priest goes into the Holy Follies and there's incense all around and it's kind of
hard to see. And, but he gets in there and all of a sudden a vision of a God appears to him
out of the mist and it's Yahweh, but Yahweh actually has a donkey head. And so the High Priest is
absolutely terrified. I mean, it surprises him, it's not like he was an insider into them. I mean,
he's like, holy smokes, I'm providing smoke for a donkey God. And so he runs out and wants to tell
the worshipers on the outside, you know, what are you worshiping? This is crazy. But the donkey
God sort of takes vengeance and seals his lips as it were. And just so everyone knows Zechariah
is actually the father of John the Baptist in this narrative. He's the High Priest, right?
Well, that's the background tradition. This particular High Priest is not named,
but yeah, you could view it as Zechariah. Eventually, he gets his tongue untied
and he says, and there's a bunch of people outside and he's like, what are you worshiping?
They're inside, I saw a donkey God and that's totally inappropriate for worship. And the people
are so stunned by this. Instead of convincing them, they gather stones in the temple core and just
start chucking them at the High Priest and he dies in agony
and in the floor of the temple core. And so it's a story, it's a polemical, it's obviously a polemical
myth. And it's a story written by someone who's obviously anti-Judaian. And he wants to say or
she wants to say, these Judeans who are worshiping the Jewish God, first of all, they don't know what
they're worshiping. He's really an ascod. Second, even if you told them that in, really, they were
worshiping Seth, the ascod, they wouldn't accept it. They'd try to kill you. And so this is a,
the writer of this story is definitely a Christian and the content of this story is about the birth
of Mary that is probably, in this case, the mother of Jesus. That's right. And, but in this story is
also this other story about the Jewish deity being a donkey God. And that's all we know because
the Gospel or the birth of Mary as a text itself doesn't survive for obvious reasons, as you can
imagine. I mean, yeah, I wouldn't keep it if I was a Christian either. Well, later Orthodox Christians,
you know, who identified Yahweh as the Christian God, would not have been pleased at all by that.
If I may show an image that you have, this one in particular is an image, what appears to be
a being on a cross with a donkey head and a faithful worshiper, it seems, at the bottom of
this cross, this seems to be depicting Jesus. Whereas Jesus is actually born, and this is part
of the polemic, it seems, throughout some of this literature, Jesus is born of a donkey God sleeps
with his mother. And here is the offspring of a donkey God, a man with a donkey head. It's,
it's really like, if we were doing stand up, let's say, it would be funny to hear this in
like mad TV or something like that. But the crap that was produced from this, the hatred that came
from this kind of stuff, there's some real blood, sweat and tears that go into this. At the end of
the day, it's kind of goofy looking back like, what in the world were people doing, man? You know,
because I don't personally believe any of it, but it's like, whoa, people were killing each other
over, like, these different things. But anyway, did you want to comment on this donkey?
Well, so that particular picture is called the Alexamanus Grafito, and that was found in Rome,
and you can go, you can actually go to Rome, and you are around their, around the area of the
Palatine Hill, on one side of it, the side that faces the ancient race course, which, which still
kind of survives, not the stone of it. There was a room, and it was plastered, and they found this
graffiti, which someone had scrolled into it with a sharp instrument, and it was, yeah,
a picture of a donkey god on a cross, and with a picture of a worshiper, which on the bottom was
written Alex, Alex Salmanos, who's a guy we don't know, but Alex Salmanos worships god, and it's
apparently making fun of this guy named Alex Salmanos, who is apparently a Christian, and that's a
fairly, that's one of our earliest representations of Jesus on the cross, is actually the guy with,
with the donkey head. I wouldn't say that anybody, I wouldn't say anybody died over this image,
but it was sort of like, it was definitely an anti, both an anti-Jewish, and at this point,
obviously an anti-Christian slur, concocted by Greeks and Romans, were, were very familiar with
this. And since in Greco-Roman culture, the donkey was, this is not true for Egyptians,
but for Greeks and Romans, since the donkey was a symbol of stupidity,
they were basically saying, wow, the Christian god is really, really stupid. He gets his butt
crucified, and there you go. And anybody who worships him is as dumb as an ass.
Wow. It carries, it carries a punch, certainly.
Yeah, it does. Oh my gosh, that was intense. Okay. I had this question for you, and I, like,
there's so many more, right? Like, Seth seems to be a donkey deity, or it could be the face of a
donkey or pig, either way, kind of up for dispute on what the face is actually, but either way,
it's one or the other, it seems. The question I had was this. We have these
different versions of Gnostics, if you can use that with lowercase g, with different ideas about
God, but what gets me is they look at things like Marcian. I'm going to just call him like a proto-Gnostic
or some form of it, let's just say. We throw him in the bag. He sees this, and it's not like he
divorces himself completely ontologically. He still believes that this God, though evil,
or just however you want to put it, is absolutely still the Creator, yet the God of Jesus is not
the same God, and that God is love, which I'm glad he has at least a nice God he's looking at. But
at the end of the day, I asked you, I was like, Dr. Litwa, why did they still believe
that package altogether? Why didn't they completely divorce it to the point where, look,
we don't believe anything that this is saying in the Hebrew Scriptures, we believe purely in the
God that Jesus is bringing to the table. Is it because there was so much connection between
Jesus fulfilling things that are in this older literature that they had to keep it, or what are
your thoughts? Well, what we call today the Hebrew Bible was in the Greek version called the Satuagin,
and that was the first Bible of most early Christians. So, yeah, not all of them, but a good many of
them. So, it wasn't something that you just throw out.
It was something that you had to take seriously, and there were prophecies, and in early Christianity,
one of the things that really made people Christians was that they thought that the
prophecies spoken in this Satuagin came true in Jesus. Some people still today believe that.
It's generally not the first argument that apologists make, but it's still made today.
The prophecies of the so-called Old Testament are proved true in Jesus Christ,
at least in Christian eyes, and that was a proof of the truth of Christianity. So, this was important
material. Marcian, again, I don't think that he, I don't know if he grew up familiar with stories
from the Satuagin or not, but he definitely didn't have any lower loyalty for the Jewish deity.
So, when he read this material, he wasn't at liberty simply to reject it. He did think it was
true. Much of the Hebrew Bible contains what was thought of as history. So, it's not like you could
just reject Israelite history. No, I mean, it happened in some sense. So, you have to take it
seriously, but some of these thinkers like Saturninus, who's an early Christian from Antioch,
had the theory that, yeah, one of the reasons that a lot of the stuff in the Hebrew Bible is true
is because angels revealed it, and this theory goes back to Paul, but these angels were actually
evil and trying to fool people. In other words, an angel told something that ended up being true,
but really, it's the basis of the religion. So, the revelations that come true are due to
superhuman agency, but the whole package itself is a pack of lies, and those who believe it,
believe it because they've been fooled by these lower divine beings, one of whom happens to be
the Judean God himself, and we can tell he's one of these lower divine beings because he's
so hungry for his own worship, and he's desperate to assert himself, and he just seems like a
monstrous narcissist, and that's a very good indication that that's not a real deity.
The Phoebe knights have a seven-layered heaven, and they attributed a certain planetary,
if you will, celestial body to the particular deity's name or angel's name, and one of those bodies,
I think it's the third or fourth one you were saying in your book, is actually attributed to the
God, this Creator God, if I'm not mistaken. Yeah, so usually the Jewish God is identified with Saturn,
that is the outer ring, the Greeks didn't have Uranus, they certainly didn't have Pluto,
and so their planetary scheme ended with Saturn, or what the Greeks called Kronos, and
some early Christian thinkers identified the Jewish deity with this God on the outer
rim of the universe called Saturn. Interesting, okay, I thought it was third or fourth, so it's
the seventh, interesting. Because there's so much you go into in this book, I'd like to ask you one
more question, I'm point blank, gonna put you on the spot to get what I can out of you, and I ask
that with this in mind, some things we can't be dogmatic about, and we can't have absolute high
confidence in what we think, but maybe go out on a limb and guess, and give your hunch on some of
this stuff, this is my opinion. You clearly indicate John seems to be better understood as the father
of the devil, and that the Jewish God is, this is the polemic, the Jewish God is evil. He is the
father of Satan, and he does the same, his Satan does like him, is a liar from the beginning,
and a murderer, and it goes right back to Genesis, this is in our New Testaments today,
even with our English translations trying to kind of make that sound like,
you know, not what you're saying it says in Greek, and what other scholars have said it says in Greek,
where it's clearly a jab at the Jews and their God. Is there anywhere else in the New Testament
that you would say, I'm specifically maybe mentioning Matthew or Pauline literature,
where you clearly see something like this as well, is there something like that that red flags to you
that's major? Well, so in part two of the book, I go through all of the passages in the New Testament
that Marcin dealt with. And I've talked about in a previous session, I've talked about two
Corinthians four four, which that's that the God of this world has blinded people from seeing the
light of the truth of Christ, and the God of this world being taken as a reference to the Creator.
And that's a logical reading, it's not a reading taken by many Christians today,
but it's a logical reading because who else would the God of this world be but the Creator?
And who else would the Creator be but the Judean deity? And we know from Isaiah chapter six,
and many other passages of the Old Testament, that the Judean deity Yahweh blinds people
from seeing truth. And any God that blinds people from seeing truth is simply a monster,
not a God at all. So that's a Marcin out reading. Marcin also paid very particular attention to
something which again goes against the trend of modern Jesus studies. Marcin paid attention to
the place where Jesus destroyed the Jewish law, Jesus himself. And Marcin of course wasn't
interested in what we call the the historians Jesus or the historical Jesus. He was interested
in the Jesus of the Gospels and he just could point, point by point, just go through and say,
here's where he broke the Sabbath, here's where he dissipated food laws, here's where he
shouldn't have touched a leper, here's where he did X, here's where he did Y, all this is against
Jewish law. And then Jesus ends up dying, why does he end up dying? Well, from the Jewish
perspective, it's because he disobeys Jewish law, he's viewed as a transgressive. But who's the
author of Jewish law? Well, again, for the Jews, it's God, or they're God, Yahweh, who spoke the
Jewish law supposedly on not Sinai. So Jesus transgresses the law of the Jewish God, if he
transgresses the law of the Jewish God, he must think that the law of the Jewish God is on some
level wrong. And who's going to be pissed off by that, the Jewish God? So the question is,
how does Jesus die? Well, from the Jewish perspective, that is in the Gospels, he dies
as a transgressor of the law. He dies as a rebel against the author of the law,
God himself, Yahweh, and Yahweh takes vengeance. And the thought is that he kills Jesus himself,
or orchestrates the events which end up in the death of Jesus. And further proof of this comes
from Galatians, where Paul says that Jesus was cursed by the Jewish deity on the cross. And if you
go read this passage that Paul cites from Deuteronomy, it says that Yahweh curses
anybody and everybody who is placed on a cross, which would include Jesus. So if Yahweh is in
the business of cursing Jesus, then first of all, you have to think about it, does a God curse people?
No? Second, if God, if Yahweh is cursing Jesus, is he really Jesus' father? Probably not.
So he must be an evil being who crucified Jesus and cursed him to boot. And if you believe that,
well then you can't believe that the Judean deity is the father of Jesus Christ, who
is also a good being. You just, you simply can't. It's not logical anymore. And if you think that
this deity, Yahweh, put Jesus on the cross, well then, I mean, that's like the worst thing
in the Christian imagination, you know? I mean, you can't get any worse than killing Jesus. I mean,
there was a joke about a guy who shot John Paul II, the Pope, you know? I mean,
it's like the fastest ticket to hell. You want to shoot the Pope. But killing Jesus, but that's
just, if any sin is unforgivable, it's that. But that's what Yahweh does and curses him. So it's
impossible from that theological reconstruction to view Yahweh as the God of Jesus. He is the
enemy of Jesus and Jesus is his enemy because he breaks his law. And I know that, you know,
your listeners who might be, you know, reading modern scholarship, and I know you've had
Matt Teason on who wants to say that, no, no, Jesus, you know, obeyed the law. Well,
I disagree. I don't think he did. I think he was a transgressor. And I think that very early
Jews viewed most Christians as transgressors of Jewish law. And most Christians never had
any interest in obeying Jewish law. They never did kosher. They never washed their hands. They
never did any of that stuff. All of that was foreign, thanks to Paul. So yeah, Christianity
as a religion is a transgression of Judaism. And so that's how it gets to be a separate religion.
It's just so far beyond the pale. It has to be excluded.
Okay, back to the God of this world. So we see this in Ephesians, too. But we also see this in
the Gospel of Matthew, where Jesus is in the wilderness to be tempted. And this is kind of
maybe, I'm saying maybe, jabbing into what you're talking about here. And he's offered,
he's there's three temptations, we see the mamesis, it's definitely connecting to
the Moses narrative that Jesus is a new, better Moses, if you will, far, maybe,
maybe polemically saying he's better than Moses. Moses was nothing compared to Jesus.
That might be the intention. I don't know. But the point is, he's tempted with three temptations by
Satan himself. And this is really interesting. He offers him the kingdoms of this world.
So here, who has control of the world? Well, God created the world. He's in really control of the
world. Who is Satan? God's people. We see it throughout the Hebrew Scriptures. Satan does what
God tells him to do. He's tempting him in telling him you can have all these things. And he is
rejecting the world. He's rejecting the offer of the nations of the world or these kingdoms,
if you will, whatever's being described here in Matthew. And of course, he passes this test of
rejecting bread, having his angels concerning him from falling. Like, hey, don't worry, the angels
will take care of that. He's like, nah, I'm good on the angel thing. I'm not jumping off this thing.
And then, of course, the kingdoms of heaven. Do you think the kingdoms of the earth, I mean,
do you think that there is something here in the vein of what you're talking about?
Well, it is one of those, it's one of those cases of cognitive dissonance in early Christian
theology where some texts, including 1 John, which says that the devil sort of has sway over
the whole world. And as you know, in the Synoptic Gospels, where the devil has access to all the
kingdoms of the world, it is in charge. He seems to be controlling the world. Some people think
the God of this world is the devil, and 2 Corinthians 4-4. He has, he's being a tremendous
power in all of those reconstructions. And he seems to be basically taking over, yes, the province
of the Creator, because no one should have that kind of power over the world, except the Creator
Himself. So one could see Marcian and others perhaps leaning in that direction. In terms of
that specific passage in Matthew, I didn't find evidence of them using that in the way that you're
talking about. But part of that is also because Marcian doesn't think that Matthew even is a Gospel.
He doesn't accept that one. So this one that is upheld as the most Jewish of all Gospels,
well, it doesn't matter because many early Christians didn't view it as Scripture. So
again, we're looking at it always anachronistically from the fourth century when the big four were
finally set in stone. That wasn't the case for Marcian and these other thinkers.
All I can say at the end of this whole talk is that I have more questions than answers.
I mean, it really, I'm fascinated with your work, what you're doing. I hope everybody goes
absolutely get the book. I can't recommend it enough for anybody who's interested in checking
it out. The evil creator, M. David Litwa, Dr. Litwa is blowing my mind. I'm not even done. I'm
thinking to myself, oh my goodness, what do we not understand? What are we missing? What kind of
Frankenstein is happening here? It makes me think the Diatesseron, that's so late in the game. They're
obviously trying to fix a problem. There's a problem. Something's wrong. I just want more
people to take the time to read it. Get the book if you can get it. Be sure to do that. That's all
I can do. That's all I can do. Seriously, thank you for your time. We haven't even gotten past
the first two chapters, by the way. Well, I'm happy to come back. If you have any more detailed
questions, that's always a possibility. I know it just depends also on the interest of your
viewers. My hope is that this book, which, as in many academic books, takes years of research,
and I'm really hoping that it can be useful and helpful for everybody who is interested in
the dark side of Christian theology, as it were, the forgotten parts of it, that need to be brought
back into the light and used responsibly, of course. It's one thing to conclude in your own
personal theology that the God described in the Bible, that's not a good being. One could go in
various directions from there. One could go in the direction of atheism, or one could go into
the direction that these early Christians did, which is to conceive of a God beyond the God of
these particular scriptures, and perhaps all scriptures, to have access to something that's
beyond knowledge. Because the God, if there is God, is, as the Gospel of John says, no one has seen
or known him, and he's not even a him. You can go in any direction you please,
but yeah, I think it's really important to have a serious, non-apologetic view of the Christian
God, and make careful decisions, because this has to do with our image of God. We tend to
create ourselves in the image of the God that we have, and if your God is out there killing people,
then, or commanding genocide, or sending a flood, or whatnot, or blinding people,
then you might wake up someday doing the same thing.
Geez, you make me want to ask more questions about people born blind in the New Testament.
Is it what's going on here? There's just so many things to ask, because they weren't born because
of their sin. It must be God. It makes you think the author might be seeing these things.
There's not only this, ladies and gentlemen. Please, leave a comment specifically praising
the work, praising the episode, letting us know if you want to do this again, because Dr. Litwa has
many other books. I want to interview them on all of them. I want to get into all this material,
and it's a matter of what you think about it, and how you feel. Please, let us know what you think.
Until next time, thank you so much for joining me, Dr. Litwa.
Thank you, Derek. Really enjoyed it.
Never forget, the God above God likes this chant. We are MythVision.
