Welcome back ladies and gentlemen.
MythVision Podcast. I have your infamous Joseph Atwell. What's up brother?
Well you know we're locked down. It's unconstitutional. It's the establishment of a slave state and I'm very upset about it.
So it's a great time to be talking about Jesus and the New Testament.
Yeah because you know every time I brush up on your book seems like, how do I put this? The Jews were in a situation of somewhat of a slave state if you will of course conquered by Rome.
But we'll get into that. Before we get into this I wanted to let everybody know first of all Joseph Atwell, his famous work Caesar's Messiah is really a game changer for me.
I came from full preterism which is the teaching that the second coming of Jesus Christ did happen in the first century because Jesus said it would happen.
Now of course a fundamentalist Christian cannot let their scriptures lie and they cannot let their son of God Jesus Christ part of the trinity, the whole nine type stuff.
He can't fail. So I read this first chapter somewhere online and I watched the video that Joe did and just saw and he said look you know they weren't lying.
It was Titus and Vespasian and I said holy crap what if this guy's right? What if the second coming quote unquote of Jesus was not Jesus but the Roman armies?
And you really blew my mind Joe and I have to applaud you for that because MythVision podcasts wouldn't have come off the ground if there weren't guys like you who made me think outside the box.
Regardless if your theory is 100% correct, regardless if all of your interpretive ideas, the typologies that you do, regardless of whether that's the case.
Your work is a revolutionary work and you're a pioneer in that field so I just want to thank you for joining me on MythVision and let the audience know how important your work has been in my own personal journey as well as Luther who was a co-host with me for a long time but he's busy doing books and stuff so leaves me with a dirty work.
Well thank you, yeah I'm glad it was a value. I brought it out. I was not certain if it was a good idea of course because you're tampering with sort of the fundamental understanding of history as well as religion and I was a little worried about what it would all produce.
And I was also kind of thinking that someone who really isn't coming from this academic background, it wasn't really clear to me I would ever have much traction but lo and behold the book basically without any promotional budget just on its own coherent merits.
I'm pretty sure has been the best selling work of New Testament scholarship over the last 20 years. There are a lot of books which are quasi kind of that I think have outsold of course but it sold well over 100,000 copies and that's remarkable, shocking to me, that's in English.
It'll be out in a couple more languages in the next year. It's in French and German currently. So it's had an amazing run and it's a run that was completely developed by the readers. They were the ones that told other people and because of that it became popular and after all of this time I am more convinced than ever that the analysis is correct,
that the gospels were written in a way as a vanity piece and I think that's just the hardest concept for people to get their head around. They can kind of understand the idea of Rome creating a false religion but the idea that the literature is basically about a Caesar, about military victories and Caesar being God incarnate.
That's just so hard for people to understand and it's because they don't really know what were the facts on the grounds in the first century because at that point the imperial cult was the most powerful bureaucracy, it was producing most of the literature.
And it was the device by which the Caesars were helping to rule a prison of nations which was called the Roman Empire and so they were very vain about this human god stuff and the war that was fought in the first century in Judea was really in an odd way a war of messiahs.
You had the Flavians claiming to be that their position is to say we are the messianic leader of the Jews. The group that rebelled from Rome, they were a messianic movement that had a more traditional vision of the Jewish messiah than the Roman Caesar.
But the war was actually, that was like the fundamental kind of dividing point that occurred during the war was who was entitled to call themselves the Son of God.
All of the Roman historians weighed in that Caesar created this title, had this title and of course the messianic movement that rebelled, they saw someone coming from the lineage of David a Jew would be the person.
And so this this was really very fundamental to the war.
It's not something that people today are well aware of that the struggle went on.
But it's an all if you read the histories of the earth and all of the histories.
And then there is this odd fact that the the Flavians were actually very much entwined with royal families and eminent families of Jews.
Titus for a while was actually, they thought he was going to marry Bernacke, the granddaughter of Herod the Great.
Now, the reason that that's so important is that she would have been a Hasmonean princess, you know, according to Judaic, you know, genetic lineage.
She came from the Hasmoneans.
So it's Caesar had a child with her.
I mean, there you have it.
There's your messiah.
So they were that these ideas were in their mind.
They were in the thought world of the Roman imperial family.
And and so the Gospels, when you look at them through the lens of the Flavian imperial family and the Flavian imperial court, they just make complete sense.
You know, see what I mean?
The interpretive framework that this is Flavian imperial court vanity literature, it just makes perfect sense.
And without that perspective, they're kind of incoherent.
I mean, you know, you have people talking about like the Q problem, you know, the synoptic, excuse me, but synoptic problem.
Well, it doesn't even exist when you look at the Gospels through the imperial, the Flavian imperial perspective.
Because it would be clear that all of the authors of the literature would be under some kind of editorial control.
And when you see these verbatim passages moving back and forth between different, you know, authors, so-called, this is just first century word processing.
They're they have they all there is no Mark or Luke.
I mean, if there is there, there's they're not in, you know, in conflict or a distinct movement from some some other Christian movement.
It's all under one control.
And so this is just how the literature is being assembled.
When they when they actually brought out the finished version of that one, the version we have is known as the gospel.
So well, Joe, Joe, I wanted to take us back.
I think it's important because you bring up very interesting things.
I mean, for one, one very basic simple thing for people to realize is this is all taking place in a very war filled situation.
OK, this is this is war is in the air.
It's a constant struggle.
Everything is just not doing well.
Your first chapter just really sets in lays the ground on why it's so important that the Gospels, the New Testament is developed.
Because this is not like, oh, well, you know, from zero or around the time they date zero up to 70.
No, this goes back, guys, you got to go back to you got to go back to Maccabee and times you got to go back to a struggle with.
The Jews and their Greek and then, of course, Roman invaders from Hellenization being a tool used that was really starting to drown out their heritage,
drown out their culture.
It was really how do I put this?
I mean, we do it today.
We program people to think certain ways.
That's really what they were doing is programming these guys and the Jews were going, no, we're losing touch.
We're losing and they're trying to be true to their heritage.
So you actually kind of and you know, you could have written a lot more.
I know I'm sure you could have on that idea there.
But the Maccabee and revolt and everything that happened from Antiochus epiphanies and and onward plays its part in why the development of what you're writing here in Caesar's Messiah happens to take place.
And it always shocked me now that I look into the messianism and like the stuff that was going on in the first century, you know, paying taxes.
People don't understand that a Jew called Jesus saying rendered a Caesar.
Now, I don't care.
I don't care if you want to interpret that as what he's saying.
Don't worry about the money.
Just give it to Caesar because it's not God's, you know, just give to God's what's God's and it doesn't matter.
That was a very hot topic to even participate.
You weren't even supposed to participate.
You were supposed to avoid and reject any type of tax paying to these rebels.
Jesus is literally saying he's pretty much talking to them.
I would see and of course the common folk who might be influenced by them, but it's like, hey, why would you even say that kind of stuff?
Well, you know, you have to know the history around is what you're suggesting and it's very important.
We see that.
Do you want to comment on that, I guess, or something?
Well, yeah, I mean, when you look at the Gospels as a conversation between Caesar and the Messianic rebels, they make a lot of sense.
You know, you can understand that Jesus is representing Imperial Rome and the satanically infested Jews are the Messianic rebels.
And so you're getting this dialogue.
The dialogue is cryptic and it's really structured as mind control so that whoever's listening to the words would get the impression that the Roman Imperial position is rational.
It's, you know, modern and the the Messianic zealots are satanic.
They succumb to, you know, like vanity and things like this.
It's just mind control 101.
Oligarchs have always done this.
The Torah is filled with the same technique.
I think that's actually what the Romans were borrowing it from.
They, you know, the idea that the Oligarchs would have literature created where the God would give kind of the martial instructions, you know, to the to the to Hoi Ploi is very convenient.
You know, it's just it's just how it's how cultures have operated.
I mean, basically, as far as I can tell, since Hannah Robbie and beyond, you know, they're just the there.
There is a desire in Oligarchs, the technique that they have to create obedience through using religion.
That's it's as simple as that.
And so when you when you kind of look then at the Gospels as non-organic, but rather political in their nature, then one thing for sure is the vanity aspect of it pops right out.
You can see that.
I mean, they didn't have to write this literature with this weird typology that, you know, I show in season, so I links back to the Flavian military campaign.
That wasn't necessary.
They could have factored it much easier to write it just straightforward.
They could have they could have created Jesus in a, you know, without any kind of political trappings at all.
But they they really wanted to record for history this this victory, this basically victory of their divinity over the claim divinity of the Jews.
You know, if you don't mind me commenting on that, that's that's fascinating.
So something that blew me away with this.
When I started researching actual Jewish thought, not not Christianity, not New Testament idea, but like Jewish thought that God was going to promise Israel, you know, salvation, land flowing with milk and honey, you know, they'd control.
And of course, under the iron rod, they would rule the nation.
So what blew me away was how none of that happened.
In fact, the opposite happened.
But yet the New Testament acts like it's it's successful.
It's just funny how a church think about it.
It's just mind boggling 2000 years has propagated this message built upon the premise that, well, he's coming.
And he didn't do anything that was promised Old Testament wise in the way that it was promised to actual Israel.
In fact, you know, Matthew comes on with these little clear indications saying, I was going to give this give this to, you know, others taking it away from the sea.
Right.
You have all of that like end of the Covenant.
Well, it's called the New Covenant.
Right.
I mean, the the most amazing thing.
I mean, this is simply mind boggling.
There's several there's several things about sort of just my take on on the the Gospels and on the origins Christianity, which are absolutely shocking to me even now after having been involved with for so long.
But I think that the thing that is the two things which are just incredible is that the the parallel story about the crucifixion that is in Josephus, where Joseph Bar Matthias
takes him down from the cross and he survives and the story of Joseph era, Matthias, you know, the play on words takes him down from the cross.
He survived.
Well, the fact that no one had ever mentioned that I think is just is just incredible, you know, because it's so transparent.
But then the other thing that is just, I mean, I mean, I just impossible.
But is that you have Jesus, he is the he is the the the human Passover sacrifice, right, of the New Covenant.
He's obviously mirroring the first Covenant structure where, you know, they have the 40 years of wandering and then they get the promised land delivered to them.
Well, you know, in fact, you even have a Pentecost that's recovered an act.
So they've actually, you know, they're going forward with the whole Exodus story, you know.
And well, when you look at the dating and you go, well, you know, Jesus is supposed to be crucified on 33 Passover.
You know, not hard to come up with that is that they're actually saying, you know, there it is, it's 33.
And then you look at the conclusion of the Roman Jewish war when the Rome takes possession of all of Israel.
Well, that's the fall of Masada, the last hold out.
And that's Passover 73.
Now that's 40 years.
So you've got so so if you're wiring Jesus into the war, which you clearly are, because here's here's the point, my point.
You've got the encircling of Jerusalem with the wall, you've got the temple being raised, you've got the crushing of the Galleon towns.
Okay, all of these events from the war.
Why didn't anybody ever bother to just go?
Well, it looks like the whole story of Jesus is backdated and wired into the Roman Jewish war so that here at the at 73 Passover,
you have the completion of this mirrored cycle where you have the human Passover lamb 40 years ago.
You have this 40 years of wandering and trouble and whatever.
And now here, finally, you have the new covenant and the land is given to the new people because the new covenant is supercession.
I mean, it is getting rid of the old covenant and now Rome is becoming the new basically chosen people.
So since this is obviously so wired into the literature, why isn't that obvious sort of analytic point?
What would that just be seen as a miracle, which would be always given to first century catechism Christians as, look,
there's another reason why we should believe ourselves to have this legitimate miracle relationship with Jesus.
But I mean, as far as I can tell, and I hope to be corrected because this really doesn't make me feel good about the human race to have this,
something be overlooked like it has been, but no one ever noticed that.
And that's just unacceptable. I mean, that just shows that we're very vulnerable to having a whole kind of intellectual processes screwed up with fake narratives.
You know what I'm saying? You just put a little dazzle and then we can't think straight.
So anyway, if there's anything that's a value to the revelations people will get in Caesar Messiah, hope is that it leads to clear thinking.
Yeah. Well, I really enjoyed the book. I mean, I can't under the nobody looks at the Bible New Testament situation here like you do.
So at the very least, it'll expand your way of thinking and suggest, what am I now?
Is there something that could be going on that I'm not aware of?
Is there something there that nobody's really looked at?
And you do wonderful little typology connections to Josephus as war the Jews.
I mean, I'm still blown away at the mother Mary in the battle, which this is what's so funny to me, Joe.
I love this because there's actually this is like I want to give another example as we get into that example because I'm reading Josephus.
Jesus been an Ananias, the woe saying Jesus, which Jesus in the Gospels does.
The only thing that he doesn't do is woe to me.
He says all the woes that the Jesus been an Ananias says in Josephus, except for woe as me, even though he ends up himself killed at the end in the narrative.
Josephus like it's almost like Josephus was right there listening to Jesus been an Ananias and then like at the death of Jesus been an Ananias when the catapult launches.
It's just so funny.
He knew that he said woe is me at the very last second.
It sounds so poetic.
It doesn't sound.
I'm not saying there may not be historical relevancy.
Of course, I'm just saying this is mythologized in such a way.
It's literary.
It's not literal.
And this Mary mother of this burnt sacrifice.
Goodness gracious.
You want to talk about that one Joe a little.
Sure.
I mean, I just one one comment on Jesus been an eyes.
I mean, it's a joke.
I mean, if you if you would just kind of get away from history and scripture profundity for a second and just kind of look at it with an open mind.
You can see that Josephus, the author of Josephus, whoever, you know, is writing this literature is just making a joke.
I mean, there's no way.
First of all, he could.
How could he ever get this dialogue?
Right?
I mean, he wasn't inside the, you know, the walls.
It's it's just obviously they're just making it up.
And it's just really funny if you think of of the Romans creating Jesus Christ to have this person.
Like you say, there's all of the mean, if you look at the parallels between this, this Jesus and the Jesus and the Gospels, this has been picked over by scholars for years.
Everyone can see there.
In fact, it's so obvious.
It's problematic for Christianity.
So one of the reasons why I think there's people kind of, you know, like they tip to around it, but it's obviously clear cut.
And then the which the woman is called cannibal Mary.
I mean, the fact is, is that which who she's a character in the in Josephus's history.
And she basically despairs because she's so hungry and then kills and eats her son.
And then in the story, there's just all kinds of, you know, like, they're actually very, you know, scholarly works done on that.
This little passage, because it's so deep, it's there's so much symbolism, you know, that's going on, makes no sense.
People don't really make any sense of it.
But the key is, is that the child is set up as a Passover lamb.
See, see, this is the thing.
It's really quite transparent.
A lot of scholars, well, few scholars have actually said, hey, looks like it is a Passover lamb.
And Melitos and like he was one of the very first, you know, kind of New Testament critics.
I mean, he actually also said there are he alluded to the fact that the child is obviously a Passover lamb.
So when you when you look at the Passover lamb aspect, and then with all of the other parallels between the situation of the cannibal Mary individual,
you can see that when Jesus says, you know, eat of my flesh, drink of my blood at the last supper, that there's an obvious relationship between the two events.
Right.
And Jesus is talking about being eaten as a Passover lamb.
And of course, the idea that Jesus is a Passover lamb is not disputable because then, you know, in the Gospel of John, when he's on the cross,
he gets touched with his hip and his bones are deliberately left unbroken, which are these are instructions concerning the preparation of the Passover lamb that are in the Torah.
So he's it's not something that anyone doubts that Jesus is a human Passover lamb.
And this child is a another human Passover lamb.
And so this is obviously suspicious.
I mean, because these are the only two, it's blasphemous to the religion.
So I would such extraordinary behavior be recorded like this.
And, you know, you don't have crystal sort of kind of, you know, like clarity in terms of all this until you look at the typology.
The sequence of events is almost as important as the events themselves.
You know, sequence is something that humans can easily follow.
Intellectually, we can we can get that that, you know, if the events are related that you can look for meaning between the two events that you wouldn't see just on the surface of either one.
And this is really the the language of the of the oligarchs.
And it's the language of, you know, kind of propaganda scripture using typology.
They can make comments that an inner group can understand and see humor and legacy.
But the public cannot see it because they don't have the mental power to to like look at the passages and see, you know, what was actually the basis of them.
Right.
Yeah, so that's the that's the thing about Cannibal Mary is that it's it's not only human Passover lamb, but when you overlay the events.
And I mean, there are many, many events that no one would ever dispute because they're either completely parallel like cutting down fruit trees.
Are there just known historical events like crushing the Galilean towns and encircling Jerusalem, raising the temple.
When you insert this event into that sequence, you find out that the it isn't just that they're parallel human Passover lamb.
But they both this events occur at the same point in this overall sequence of events.
And then you get the the grim reality of the typology that it's really black Roman humor.
And it's, you know, so it's, it's a hard thing for people to accept because they have to a lot of times transition from Jesus being, you know, even if they're not religious, he's such an important icon, you know, cultural icon.
He promotes the better side of us.
You know, Joe, I wanted to mention something interesting in your first chapter on Caesar Messiah with this in mind.
I want to like kind of for those who are well read, who've seen my previous shows with Dennis R. McDonald, right, he does this connection to the Gospels with memetic criticism and says, look, look at the Homeric epics, right, which is Greek.
I mean, anyone who was writing in this type of language probably heard or was well read in Homer.
Now here's the thing, though, this does not negate what Joe is saying.
And I mentioned this on a previous show with you and Dr. Price.
If what Philo did can be set up in the forefront of our minds as an important message that a Jew is trying to.
He's trying to bake a cake and that cake is Judaism and Hellenism.
Okay, then what I can see happening for those who want to go to the mystery school angle on the sacraments or the eat of my flesh, drink of my blood.
In my opinion, and this is just another way of possibly looking at it.
I'm not saying there isn't dark humor here.
Of course, it's a dark time in history, but I wonder if the eating of the flesh, drinking of the blood.
A lot of people will look at sacraments and say, that's eating of the gods.
You want to become part of the God, you got to eat of the God.
Well, isn't that interesting if there is this Jew who literally keeps pointing to Rome being the good guy.
Check out my Caesar's that are coming, check out my legacy, my dynasty.
Look at what might be on the horizon here, according to the narrative.
It keeps pointing to who the guys? Rome.
I'm rabbit-trolling here, but this is important.
When you go to Joseph in the Old Testament, you did this in your first chapter where you connect Joseph.
And you go to the story of...
What's her name? Not Ruth.
I can't even think.
She ends up a queen of...
Not Ruth.
What is her name?
In your first chapter of your book, you talk about the parallels between Joseph, his story,
and who's the Old Testament story where they don't even mention the name of God in it again?
I cannot even think.
You've lost me.
What I show is the typology in Matthew, in the birth narrative,
where you have Joseph and he goes to Egypt,
and then that whole story in the Old Testament comes to life again in Matthew.
But it doesn't really link back to a particular queen.
You have the situation of Joseph in the Gospels being a parallel to the story of Moses.
I'm telling you. I listen to it this morning.
That could be, man. I have to read that book again.
You've got to read your own book, man.
Sorry.
No, no, no, but one of the...
Not Ruth, but one of the...
Esther.
Esther. Okay, yeah.
I'm talking about Mordecai and Esther. Yeah, that's right.
I give us an example of the typology that Rome was inspired upon.
I see what you're saying.
Yeah, that story is...
That's a very important story to understand because you can see the nature of the typological language there.
Think about this, though.
If Egypt, at the time when Joseph came on the scene,
of course there's a right hand to Pharaoh, Joseph, right?
However, who were the real savers of the world at the time?
Egypt.
Egypt really is the savers of the world, so to speak.
I think the New Testament plays on the same role where who ends up the savers?
The Roman Empire.
They end up becoming the Egypt of the New Testament.
And the good guys, not the whole 400 years later thing.
I'm talking the narrative in Genesis that has Egypt played as the good guys,
and they're the savers.
They save humanity, of course, with the help of a Jewish leader involved.
But you mention that, too.
You go into the families.
There are families involved, Alexandrian, or Alexanders, the Herodians.
You talk about the Caesars.
You go into this and why it's significant.
There's love.
There's hate.
There's sex.
There's everything in there that's going on that's in reality.
But I mention all that to get to the point of this Mary, this Passover lamb.
If you marry Hellenism with the Jewish thought of a Passover lamb,
you can have mystery school tradition combined with this Jewish idea.
And I could see both is what I'm trying to suggest, is that...
I totally get what you're saying, and it's actually quite...
It's an important point, is that when you see the Flavian typology in the Gospels,
this has often set off people who defend other origins of Christianity.
They want to argue, look at these parallels to some other mystery cult.
Homer, or...
Right.
But really, it is not in contradiction of those things.
I mean, this is just a very specific rifle shot that the Caesars placed inside the Gospels
leads to them, to the Flavian imperial court and their ownership of the world.
But as far as their thought world, the thought world of the authors, it's vast.
And I think actually I would pretty much agree with McDonald's analysis.
Sometimes we sort of overlap, and sometimes there are just that many layers.
There's a guy named Professor Rodney Blackhurst,
and he was in the documentary, the Caesars inside the documentary.
And he talks about the depth that these literary masters went to in their symbolism.
And you really have to, as he said, open up the whole game.
You can't ever look at the surface, and you've got to get deep into it.
And they were actually motivated and I think inspired to basically compete against Jewish scripture.
That has depth to it and multiple meanings and kind of these secret levels.
And is also reflecting, I believe, like cultural events that they want to basically record in a cryptic way.
And so, I hate to say it, but Caesars of Messiah is not something that really precludes other theories.
But it actually supports quite a few of them, because if you show that this literature originated in the Roman court, believe me,
now I think it's just a lot easier to understand the influence of the Homer storylines and things like that.
It makes much more sense because you've got to think of the thought world of the authors, what their education was.
Of course, they would have known about these stories.
And of course, they would have been probably members of mystery school religions, right?
So the idea that they would have left it out is actually far-fetched.
They would have built the literature using a lot of the elements of their thought world that they lived within.
And so, I mean, just as an example, you have astrological kind of symbolism.
The person who has the picture who's supposed to go and find the meeting room for the last supper is obviously the age of Aquarius is being referenced.
But what he's talking about is a new age, a new astrological age, because the new covenant will be when the age flips over.
The Romans here are going deep.
They're trying to unify all of the different religious symbolism with the idea of making the Flavian family basically the receptacle of all of these strands of symbolism and religion and things like that.
It's infinite.
So I don't, even in my book, I never talk about any of that.
It's not that I'm not criticizing the other analysis.
It's just the opposite.
I just think that what I was uncovering was original.
And so, because of that, I just wanted to leave that strand of analysis for the reader just to see who the Son of Man is.
When Jesus Christ talks about the Son of Man at the end, who's going to come in 40 years and do all this stuff, I just want to make it clear who that is because that had been overlooked.
I wasn't actually writing criticism of McDonald's theory or something like that.
And on the contrary, I think they're probably quite correct.
It's just that the identity of the Son of Man, it's a typologic puzzle.
I'm like, who is this guy?
If you understand the typology, though, there's no question who it is.
And so that's really what Cesar of Messiah does.
I think Dr. Price wrote an article recently on the Son of Man and how Jesus always, well, there's only two places I think it's first person, which means editors could have, or anyone could have made it a first person scenario.
But ultimately, he's always looking forward to a person, which Muslims love to jump on this.
Oh, he was predicting the Muhammad that was coming.
Anyway, it's funny that Jesus was predicting a man to come, but he was predicting himself.
That's weird.
The problem is that there is a very just such specific information about what's going on when the guy shows up.
It's obviously the Jewish war.
Right.
And of course, the 40 year timeline with the human pastoral makes everything completely transparent.
You couldn't get any clearer in circling Jerusalem at the wall, raising of the temple.
It only happens once, so it has to be at this particular time.
And the Caesars, they maintained that they were the Christ.
They actually, you've read the history, you know, Tas, Suentonius, Josephus, they all say the same thing.
The Jewish prophets, the prophecies concerning the world ruler were not about a Jew.
They were about the, you know, Vespasian and his government, his dynasty, father, son, and the Holy Ghost.
If anyone doubts this, you know, I get having skepticism, but if you doubt that they would ever say a non-Jew or non-Israelite would be this,
all you have to do is look at your Old Testament too.
There were times where there were Messianic leaders who were non-Israelites from foreign countries that were proclaimed as the Messiah at the time.
So here you have like this final declaration.
It keeps building up to the final and making Rome obviously be that.
If you consider what Joe's saying, this has a lot of implications.
Back to the Sacrifice Mary situation, I find it interesting the guys coming in to try and get her food.
These are the thieves.
Now, I know you've probably heard Elena Einhorn, wonderful woman, and it kind of, everything kind of, there's so much here to kind of think about
where they would get this character and some of these things, and she of course concludes it was the Egyptian.
But what Elena did, she used this, and I can't remember the Greek term, but it is the thieves.
She finds it in Josephus, she finds it in the Gospels, and she does this overlap and goes,
you know what, these thieves don't show up in the 30s, so her chronology goes into the 50s and 60s.
War time, which is funny, but the Gospels act like it's in the 30s.
So I asked her at the end of the conversation, which you came to mind and I thought to myself, okay,
I said, Elena, why would they put it in the 30s if it never happened in the 30s?
And she's like, well, there could have been competing histories.
She didn't know really, I said, what about a 40 year gap?
She goes, that's possible.
I said, because you know, the Hebrews were known for this.
This is something that they would use constantly.
What about that 40 year gap?
And this comes to mind, the men who came to still marry his food are the thieves.
Who are the thieves?
The rebels.
Less thotties, and the word is very specific, and it's a kind of thief,
and Josephus is using it about the Messenic rebels.
So it's just another indicator as to what we're dealing with.
You're dealing with, it's basically a mockery of the Messenic movement that their Passover
sacrifice, they ate their Messiah.
This woman, she was representing Israel and she eats the Messiah.
Josephus doesn't say the child is a Messiah.
He just says the child is from a eminent family line, which just the reader has to fill in the blank.
But his family line includes Eleazar, the name Eleazar, which is a Hasmonean royal name.
And there's all these, once you start to look at the passage as representing basically,
it's mocking the Jewish Messenic movement.
It's saying, look, you have basically taken part in a ceremony which is showing that the future belongs to Rome.
You see, you have basically blasphemed and cannibalism and that the character that we created, Jesus Christ in the Gospels, he predicted this.
So when he creates the New Covenant between Rome and God, this event in Josephus' recounting of the Siege of Jerusalem,
this is just the endpoint of the way that your religion used to function.
Is it another way of saying to the Jews, you better be found in Christ?
This is the thing. It is, of course, exactly that.
And the New Covenant is mirrored in the history of Josephus.
It isn't just something that's found in the Gospel.
Josephus, when he's captured by the Flavians, he has a religious experience.
God actually talks to him and he says, you know, the favor that I had with the Jews, meaning the Old Covenant, is dead.
And now there is a new relationship and it's with Rome.
And then, of course, Josephus goes out to record.
He actually physically records that the Messenic prophecies are also wrong.
They actually are predicting the Flavian Caesar, right?
So you have a perfect unification, a logical unification of the ending of the Old Covenant,
the creating of a New Covenant between God and the Romans,
and the Son of Man coming and destroying Jerusalem in 40 years.
So if you just put the intellectual structures, these concepts, just side by side,
you can see they're obviously coming from the same source because the concepts are so just absurd
that they couldn't just accidentally have emerged in different literatures without there being something to link them together.
Question for you, Joe.
Josephus, fascinating information here.
For any of you who are more depth of reading than I am and have the time,
I want you guys to look into this more, but I want Joe's thoughts on this.
I'm sure you would agree.
I mentioned Joseph from the Old Testament, Egypt being the ruling power.
I wonder whoever authored here, let's just go with this and just say,
Josephus wrote Josephus, okay?
This Joseph, or Josephus, I wonder if he's making himself out in his narrative to be the Joseph of the Old Testament
and the Savior, in a sense, or the Utilizer, the mediator, so to speak, on the Savior of his people.
Because what you find is him seated at the right hand, if you will, of Vespasian Titus,
and he's trying to save his people from their own destruction.
And look at his brothers.
His brothers are, you know, they're just practically selling him off, if you will.
They're discrediting him.
I wonder if there's a connection here to you.
No, I think you're absolutely right.
I think that they created, I don't think Josephus is a real person.
I mean, I would argue that he's just too perfect.
And so, something like a character like that is more easily constructed than existing in real life, you know?
So, I think it's just a non-deplume.
And I think there was probably more than one person who wrote.
Well, I think it's pretty well established that the antiquities is a different hand.
They say Joseph's Greek got a lot better somehow over, you know, the period of time between the two books.
But I think there was like, you know, there was more, it was like a committee that would have been creating this literature.
It wouldn't have just been one person.
But Joseph was set up in exactly as kind of a type of the original Joseph.
I mean, the brothers are really, because he sets, he established himself somehow as a priest and as a Hasmonian.
He says he's from the royal family.
And so, he's in opposition to the Hasmonian, his brothers per se, you know, who are like leading the rebellion against Rome.
So, yeah, that's definitely in the literature.
And it's an example of how they use in an oblique way like Old Testament typology.
There's quite a bit of it that has never really been uncovered.
I didn't put much of it into Caesar's Messiah because I had enough of my play just with the Gospel's, you know, narrative to show the ministry of Jesus.
But just as an example, one of my, you know, kind of, I think, favorite witticisms is when Vespasian discovers or learns that he's been made emperor.
He travels, he's in Alexandria and then he goes back to Judea after that.
And the story of him leaving Egypt is a 100% mimic of the Exodus story.
In other words, you know, if you look at, you know, they have the left side and the right side and the waters kept back by God and Vespasian.
He's basically representing the Israelites.
And this isn't like a typologic link into the story of Jesus Christ.
It's just a standalone little piece of typology, which if I, you know, if you saw the parallelism, it's just absolutely transparent.
But it's just how they use the Old Testament and just think about the Flavian sitting there.
They have obviously the Torah and of course all of the Dead Sea scroll material, all that they brought back, you know, they recorded the fact that they brought the law, the scripture.
And this was the only thing that they wouldn't release to the public.
They presented all of the artifacts from the temple that they had looted.
They were put in the palace of peace so the public could see them, but the law, the scripture, they kept to themselves.
This was inside the Flavian court.
So they've got all the material right there.
And so they use the Old Testament wherever they can because all of these links, all of these typologic links that you're seeing, you know, like,
Vespazian returning to Judea and he's mimicking, you know, the story of Exodus.
This is all to create the case that the hand of God, the logos, right, is basically now operating over the Flavians so that they're having all of these experiences which are basically organic to the relationships and storylines that were established
in the Torah.
So that there, it isn't just the kind of the bold typology that Jesus has looking forward or, you know, looking even backwards.
Because remember, obviously Jesus, a lot of the stories built up using, you know, like the miracle, the loaves and fishes is based on Elijah.
You know, they have a lot of the Old Testament.
So what the Flavians are doing is that when they create their history with the history of the war that Josephus wrote,
if there's just tons of this stuff, people don't notice it because they don't look for it.
But they did it deliberately because that was how the Jewish scripture was structured and they wanted their scripture to have the same thing.
So a lot of the storylines are coming with typologic flavors that are extending back into the stories in the Torah.
You know, another thing, can you hear me?
Yes, I can hear you.
Awesome.
Let him, who as I see an ear here.
No, I'm just kidding.
The resurrection from the dead is another funny, fascinating situation here.
We've seen in Old Testament situations where Ezekiel talks about the resurrection and it does it in, it sounds literal when you're reading it, but it's not.
It's the nation.
It's this idea of people being resurrected as a people.
And if the New Testament is a similar situation, generally speaking, who are the ones who are going to get resurrected?
Well, you better be found in Christ.
And whatever that means here in Joe's situation, he's saying, you better be found on the side of the Romans, on the side in which you are following this propaganda here to be Flavian, if you will, to support the empire and to be, I guess you'd say, a good citizen, if you will.
Sure.
That's what it's about.
Yeah.
I just wanted to ask you about the resurrection, though, so we can get into that.
You mentioned, go ahead, go ahead.
I'm just going to say the resurrection, it begins with Eleazar, but him getting risen from the dead.
That is Lazarus.
Correct.
Lazarus, yes.
And so Lazarus, you know, is raised from the dead and now oddly, it's on the fourth day.
And this is not correct because in Hosea, they talk about, he will raise us on the third day.
And this was the idea that on the fourth day, if God hadn't shown up, you were finished.
And so there's already a question about why it would be the fourth day that they would raise him.
And then, of course, you have the idea that his body smells.
And so this then, I think, is sort of the, you know, you can look at this as, well, I think it's hard to look at it as history because, I mean, let's face it, raising something from the dead is not possible.
So what is it?
Well, it's humor.
I mean, they're basically the, and the Dead Sea Scrolls, you can see that they thought they were actually considering a resurrection from the dead.
I mean, that was one of the ideas that is in them, you know, that raising from the dead is possible.
And so Rome was amused by that.
And then, you know, in their literature, they mock it, just like they mock the Passover.
They mock the idea that someone could come back from the dead.
And, you know, I maintain that this whole thing about Eleazar, you know, being brought back.
Lazarus being brought back is mocking.
And he doesn't actually ever return to life.
They just bring the body out.
Well, look at one connection with me.
I think this is interesting.
Jesus weeps over the fact that he knows Israel's about to get crushed.
He even says, like, a little hen, I wish I could bring you in.
And, you know, in the narrative, he's like, I wish you'd listened and he weeps.
Where else does he weep other than Lazarus or Eleazar?
The only two places I hear Jesus weep.
And it makes me wonder, why is he weeping when he's about to bring the guy right back?
I mean, let's really think about this with common sense, everybody.
I have the power to raise you from the dead.
If the story is literal, to be understood in a literal sense.
I'm about to go raise you, but before I do, I've got to cry.
Why?
Why are you crying about the guy you're about to raise and make everyone go, wow, he has the power?
I don't think that's the point of the story.
I think you're pointing out something deeper might be going on here.
Well, but to see the problem is, is now you're, you know, this would be kind of at a level of symbolism that you have to, in order to see it, you have to be reading the material with a kind of bias.
It isn't ever going to be literally there.
The only way you can approach the kind of the meaning is through an analytic approach.
That's all.
You're going to have to have this bias.
Now, the authors then are creating a very extraordinary kind of literary concoction whereby it's a building block.
Once you understand that Jesus is a Roman construction, then there are ways to look at the literature that are more natural.
Like you can't bring someone back to life, but it has a completely different meaning.
You know, you suddenly have when the interpretive framework changes.
This is a, you know, one of these deep thoughts, but it's just something people have to put up with and understand if they're going to make any sense out of the Gospels.
Is that once you have a change in the interpretive framework, everything changes.
Everything changes.
All of the symbolism changes.
So the most important thing is understanding the correct interpretive framework.
From there, you can argue about, you know, what some of the stuff means because it's so esoteric.
The authors are leaving the actual message, their humor off the page.
It isn't even in the words.
You'll never get it.
You'll never understand that Lazarus is being created as a Roman mockery, humor, black humor, unless you read with that hard bias.
So if you criticize, like, because I bring out that the, what I see is this black humor storyline.
And people wonder why I did that because they say, gee, Joe, your typology to the war in Josephus is so clear cut.
But it's revolutionary.
You just cutting yourself, you know, off at the knees when you bring in these other dimensions, you know, because critics will then start there.
They will just go to, you know, this last piece of the analysis and say, look how far-fetched this is.
And how can you possibly look at this symbolism?
And then, you know, there's something wrong with Atwell's psychology to see this black meaning, you know, in the story of Lazarus.
But that isn't the right way to go through the process, either of kind of understanding how I look at the Gospels or of understanding the literature in and of itself,
because you have to look at the simple first.
And so whenever people say, well, what is the, you know, what is your best piece of argument?
Which, of course, is kind of an absurd question when you're thinking about a typological system that's incrementally created.
But I always say, just start out with the Jesus, Moses typology in Matthew.
With the very first page of the Gospel, there's like eight events.
They're in sequence.
They have parallel names, locations, and concepts.
And it isn't controversial, because the idea of Jesus linking back to Moses isn't so that the controversy isn't going to be a burden in your mind.
But once you've understood the system, now you can take the next step and learn that, well, actually, the typology goes forward in time.
You see, this exact same system.
When Jesus is at the Sea of Galilee, the author has not shifted genres.
He's in the exact same genre that he was in the last sentence, which concluded the Moses-Jesus typology.
He's just now going to move forward.
But this idea that you're dealing with a typologic storyline that is using name, sequence, concepts, and locations, right?
It isn't changed.
So when you approach it that way, it's easier for people to make the shift, you know, to be able to have an open mind about, well, then what happens as you go forward?
But it's odd that so few people know about the Jesus-Moses typology.
Goulder, as far as I know, was the first one to bring it out.
He brought it out in the early parts of the 20th century.
He started writing about it.
And it isn't controversial.
No one really has ever disputed it.
But it isn't like this, a fundamental piece of Christian scriptural interpretation, and it really should be.
You know, I have a chapter in Robert Price's new book, because he has a book about mythicists, different presentations by authors in the Jesus-Myth theory camp.
And that's what my chapter is about, is about this overlooked, this catastrophic blunder, really, in New Testament scholarship, where the sequence has been completely missed.
And it really is a catastrophic blunder, because it is, sequence is absolutely necessary to understand the very first, you know, story in the Gospels, the story in Matthew of Jesus' birth narrative.
So, no.
I had it muted.
Oh, there you go. Sorry, yeah.
You healed me. You healed me. I'm just kidding.
No, but seriously, this is interesting, because for those who might doubt this, I have two things.
Before we conclude, I'd like to get into, but on that note, this is not part of those two, on that note, for anyone who doubts a Ford typological position, or even a possibility,
you really have to ask yourself, especially as critical thinkers that aren't buying the Kool-Aid, if you will, drinking the Kool-Aid.
We know that he predicts the temple's destruction.
What's so hard for placing a narrative back in time, pointing forward to something?
So, it already happened.
All they're doing is saying, look, this has already happened, let's put it back in time and have it point forward.
It's that simple.
Don't overthink it, but Joe's trying to say that too many are missing that and seeing there's entire narratives, typological narratives that fast forward,
and he's saying, what are you looking forward to?
Check out Josephus.
So, this is no wonder Christians also had Josephus right next to their Bible all the time now.
They're missing, of course, those connections, but nonetheless, they would utilize it for the mastery tool of arguing against celsus and others
by saying, well, or maybe it wasn't celsus, celsus was a little early, but later on, Jesus did fulfill these prophecies.
Look, there's still some to come, though.
Of course, they always add the idea that there's a future event and stuff, but they would use Josephus to predict and fulfill the words of Christ, interestingly enough.
All the way to the sun cometh.
Oh, that's a miss.
Whoops.
We didn't mean to spell that.
You want to comment on that before we get into the last two things I had for you?
Well, one of the really funny, you know, and again, once you kind of get into the idea of the Gospels as Roman humor, it's some of the stuff is really funny.
I mean, it's these guys actually have quite a sense of humor.
So you have the triumphant entrance that Jesus makes, right, where he comes into Jerusalem and, you know, they have this weird language in there about how, you know, the stones will cry out if you can't let the Messiah in, you know.
And then if you follow along in the sequence, you have the triumphant entrance of Titus.
And, you know, it was when he actually comes into Jerusalem and he enters it through a catapult.
He throws, you know, they start throwing rocks into the city.
And there is this famous error in Josephus where the watchguard is supposed to warn the Jews when, you know, the Romans are actually starting to enter into the city with their stones.
He looks at and he sees it coming and he cries out the sun comethes.
You know, this is like not the stone comethes.
And this has actually been, I mean, there are hundreds of scholars that have written about this and they say, well, it's Ben and Eben.
It's just a mistake.
But others have seen that, you know, all of the early copies have this.
They don't have any reason why this blunder would have been made.
And so, like, I think Thackeray is the one who said, well, it's a nickname that they would have nicknamed the stone Sonny.
And so this would be how they would, Sonny's coming.
But I mean, I mean, it's so, but if you just look at it as it exists as text and it just kind of linking as you go along in the sequence,
it's really quite funny that they would just have made this mistake, you know, that.
But the fact is what it really is reflecting is black truth that the Roman Messiah is making his triumphant entrance.
When the Jew cries out the sun comethes, he's not, you know, this isn't a mistake.
This is theologic truth, you see.
And just think about that.
Because remember, Josephus, who's writing this recording, he takes a position that, you know, the Roman Caesar, they are the Jewish Messiah.
So when you have the Jew, you know, watch guard cry out the sun cometh.
Right.
It's a mouthpiece of Josephus on in the mouth.
I hear you.
But it's just, it makes, there's no way, really no way to interpret it coherently otherwise.
It's, it's, it's a Messianic declaration that, you know, here we are and we're making our triumphant entrance.
And we are again, it's just like the son of man Jesus predicted.
Because remember, he says the son of man, it's the Messianic title.
And then the, when, when, when Titus enters Jerusalem, the Jew cries out the sun cometh.
Well, from, I mean, it's, it's not really that hard to understand, is it?
It's just, no, people haven't put linked it all up.
But it's, when you, when again, it's, you know, sequence is very powerful in terms of, you know, explaining things.
And they do need to see connections.
And it's, I think a lot of times people are sort of disappointed when they meet me because they think I have like some kind of, you know, like,
brilliance and seeing these things, you know, whatnot.
But actually, I just knew where to look.
And then I make sense out of them because when, when you, once you have the code, you can look at these passages and just make perfect sense.
It's just like the, the, the, I always like to give homage to this one guy.
His name is Cliff Carrington.
And he had a, he had the Flavian hypothesis as his basic kind of like historical question.
You know, he, and he really did see, worked with Rod, Rod Blackhurst.
He was an Australian.
And when, when Cedric Messiah came out, we communicated, you know, and, and I was astounded that he had seen so much.
He hadn't seen the overall typology.
He just missed that, but he got a lot of little details.
And he's the only person that I'm aware of who actually saw the parallelism between the two Josephs, the Joseph of Arimathea and the Joseph Bar-Methias.
He saw that the story was actually related.
He thought that there were, but, but I was always astonished at that because he had to identify that reading the text.
People wonder how I saw.
Derek, I knew right where to look.
You see, I had, I had the sequence.
So I knew it had to be within a few hundred lines of text because the sequence is that precise.
So I knew exactly where to look.
And when I saw the story and I saw that there were three, a group of three being crucified, I mean, then, of course, I realized that the Joseph of Arimathea had the same name, basically.
I mean, all, all of the, all of the details came to life for me immediately, but I would never have spotted that.
I don't think because, because it's, they, in order to hide a little bit, they put the story back in the, not in the story of the war, but in Josephus autobiography.
But they, but they give you the date of its current so you can put it to within the sequence.
That's how I found it.
It's like, it wasn't in the war, but I remember it in Josephus autobiography writes about the war.
So I went back into it and looked and then I just worked out where that, where, where the timing would be.
I mean, literally that's how I found it.
I actually put blocks of red about the timeline and then said, it's got to be in here.
It's only like a couple hundred pages.
So I went through it and as soon as you see it, you go, oh my God, there it is.
Well, Cliff Carrington found that just by reading, he just read straightforward from beginning to end.
And he was an auto didact.
I mean, he read everything and he would read it over and over again.
And it just by, by just strength of mind, he was able to make that, that connection.
And, you know, I, it was just devastating to him who had worked his whole life basically, you know, that he had overlooked the, the typological system.
So I always wanted to give the tip of the hat to Cliff because he's passed away.
But man, oh man, what a great reader he was and great scholar too.
And a really righteous individual, but his website's still in existence.
And I highly recommend it if people want to go.
He's a lot of stuff that has a depth, you know, of, of like the relationship between literature and the Flaving Court and the gospel.
Really good research base, you know, and someone who didn't get the credit that he deserves.
So Cliff Carrington, my hat's off to him.
How do you spell that?
Well, Carrington, C-A-R-R-I-N-G-T-O-N, Cliff.
Okay.
If you just type in Carrington and the Flavian Hypothesis.
Okay.
And he asked me, we had a discussion.
He said, well, do you mind if I keep that title with my work, the Flavian Hypothesis?
And I said, Cliff, absolutely, you know, you should definitely, you know, maintain that because you've earned it, you know.
I am looking it up right now.
I'll be putting that.
Yeah, exactly.
It's just, I mean, I'll tell you, it's an absolute shock how good Cliff got some things.
The last stuff I didn't see, I wasn't looking in for the kind of connections, you know, that he was looking at.
Right.
So this is how fascinating kind of we were to each other.
The first week that we came across each other, I ended up with an $800 phone bill.
My wife almost killed me because we just couldn't stop talking, you know, because we were like linking everything up.
And it was a lot of fun to meet Cliff and to, you know, go through that.
So if you see the Flavian Hypothesis.
I found it, yeah.
Yeah, he's a, yeah, and also just a just righteous individual, one of these guys.
I mean, New Testament scholarship.
I mean, in fact, when I was I was describing you to this friend of mine, who's a famous scholar, I won't mention his name, but you would know immediately.
And I said, yeah, Derek Lambert, he's the new Cliff Carrington.
I need to read more.
You need to read more.
I think you just need to, you know, be in the public more.
So hopefully that'll happen.
I think it is happening.
It is, it is, man, slowly, but surely the, this information's getting out there and more people are starting to open up.
You know, I totally understand and respect why Jews see anti-Semitic principles going on.
And my recent discussions with Rabbi Tovia Singer, you know, he's like, Derek, you know, I didn't understand.
I didn't like Christians till I read their book.
He said, once I read their book, I then knew why they thought the way they did.
And I felt bad.
I realized they have a misunderstanding and that they're really being taught by this book to fill a certain way about the Jews.
And I think that it's just quite interesting that the blame is the Jewish people or the blame in the Gospels, except not all.
There are the remnant, the good ones that are humble, but it's like the high up guys who obviously are not, they're probably working against Rome.
You see this happen.
So I want to jump to resurrection real quick on the interesting thing that you do.
And maybe you can explain it again to me because I haven't read the book in a while.
I've read it twice before.
I got to read it again at some point.
But the connection between John and the John, I think it's Jonga Scala from not mistaken and the, well, not Peter, but there's Simon Bargione, I believe, or something like that going on in the temple.
They're hiding beneath the city.
And there's this denial thrice of Titus the son by one of them or something to that effect.
That's right.
In other words, you have the typology in the Gospels of denying Jesus Titus attempts to make peace, but they deny him three times.
And then they get underneath the temple, which is about to be raised, right?
And they are with tectons, which are stone masons, which incidentally is the term for free masons in modern Greek.
So that's another story.
But so you have the tectons are underneath the temple and they're trying to burrow out the Romans have conquered Jerusalem.
The Jewish religion is dead because the temple has been leveled.
And they suddenly pop out of the ground, John and Simon.
And you have to recall the term where, you know, where Simon gets his name.
I mean, Simon gets his name is Peter.
And Jesus says, you are the cornerstone that I will build my temple on.
Well, so Simon Peter pops out of the ground right at the corner of the temple with the tectons who were the stone masons.
You see, so he's a stone.
He's the cornerstone of the new temple.
And now this is then made completely transparent because then at the end of the Gospels, you know, John 21.
So Jesus says, you know, Simon, you're going to be taken where you don't want to go and given a, you know, a death to glorify God.
And and then the beloved disciple doesn't give him a name because the name game, but it's it's John.
It's, you know, the guy who writes the word, the Gospels.
He says, you know, Simon says, what's going to happen to him?
And he goes, oh, you know, don't worry about him.
If he sticks around till I come, it's none of your business.
So this is a parallel that actually was seen by Robert Eisenman.
Eisenman asked this very interesting question and James, brother of Jesus, he goes, you know, this is funny.
He goes very odd because Simon here in the Gospels is going to be, he's a leader of a Messianic movement.
He's captured by the Romans and he's going to be taken to Rome and then he's going to be, you know, tortured and killed.
So he goes, well, that sure looks exactly like what happens here in Josephus to this Simon.
And of course, you know, the timing of the death of when the Gospels, Simon and the Simon, you know, it's about the same era, same like few years.
Eisenman, he said, how many people were there like this?
He goes there like a dozen Simons or something.
He says that it seems like they're the same person.
So Eisenman saw that he actually says that this is, you know, like kind of in a coherent parallel.
And he's alluding to the idea that the story in Josephus is the basis for Jesus's prophecy.
It doesn't come right out and say it, but it's very clear.
He's just saying, hey, that's a possibility.
But what Bob didn't do is he didn't realize that the other character in the, in this story is also being represented because John is the name of the guy who was captured with Simon,
the leader of the, the leaders of the Jewish Messenic movement that are captured by Titus or John and Simon.
And Simon is not, he is, he is, he is not, he has given life imprisonment.
Oh, John, John, John, right?
I'm sorry. Yeah, John has given life imprisonment.
So you can see that there is an obvious parallel basis, you know, that the story in Josephus then is predicted by the, by Jesus and the Gospels.
He's saying, and of course, this is completely transparent because it is the conclusion of the, you know, of the storyline in Josephus.
And of course, it's the conclusion of the storyline in Jesus.
And so the parallelism is pretty vivid.
But then when you put it in the location sequence, it's just self-evident.
And so you have, you have a, you know, a complete explanation now for the whole cornerstone, Jesus giving Simon the nickname Rock, you know, all of this stuff.
You can see how everything clears up because it's all based on this idea of the cornerstone that Simon pops up right at the point, you know, where the temple had been raised and, and he's going to be the basis for the new religion,
which incidentally, now here's where you can see the genius of these guys.
Because now think about the language, because you see, they literally then do use him as the cornerstone for the new religion.
You see what I mean? They take over his storyline, his position of authority, you know, and his kind of messonic movement leadership, and he becomes the Simon that they use in the Jesus story.
So they literally are transmogrifying history into religious scripture. It's absolutely ingenious, right?
It's not like they created it from nothing. No, they created it from something. They just turned it from, let's say it's blue. They turned it from blue to orange.
They literally transfer. And you know what's interesting about that, Joe? I just did an interesting interview. I've been doing a lot of them at the feet of Dr. Price, which, you know, I worship anyway.
He's amazing. Yeah, yeah.
You got to really look like listen to that, how much information this guy has in his brain, but he talks about Simon Peter briefly, because we're talking about who James the brother of the Lord, all these things, right?
Like, what is this? What's going on? And he thinks, you know, it's a possibility that what Eisenman suggests is possible, but he also thinks that James was a leader of his own right.
And they just kind of absorbed these movements. But he says that Simon Peter, he talks about him being the rock or the stone or the cornerstone and whatnot of the church.
He said in the temple, this is somewhere in Jewish writings that they believe there was a certain stone that sat at the temple in the corner.
And according to Jewish folklore, it blocked the waters of the earth from coming up and flooding the world again.
And it just is so interesting that this guy, Simon, comes up out of the temple, out of the ground, just like the flood, and doesn't the New Testament say something like that?
The flood is part of what destroys Judaism, you see. It's like it's the new, again, this goes back, like we were talking earlier, that they are blending in very subtly.
You have to kind of, it's not surface material. You have to think conceptually about what these concepts are actually linking back to.
And I saw a bunch of this stuff, but never brought that level into Caesar's Messiah, because it's just too much of a lump for, even as it's written, it's, you know, hard.
Just because it's such a shift of understanding that I tried to keep it as simple as I could.
The only real complicated thing I put in there, which is probably a huge mistake, is I go into the resurrection store and I show that they're all linked together.
And I just get pillared for having done that, because people will argue with my mathematics and all these other, you know, things that I put in there.
But I was actually encouraged to do that by, again, people who were, by the guy who actually really had influence on the writing book, this guy named Harold Ellens.
I think I forget it. Yeah, Harold Ellens. And he was a huge supporter of the work. He was the very first scholar I ever sent it to.
And I sent it to him because he was sort of like the technical referee of the Society of Biblical Literature.
Ellens was a huge, like, big shot. And he was interested in kind of interpretive frameworks, you know, in the Gospels and stuff. He'd written about that stuff.
So I sent it to him. I never thought he'd even respond. He became a huge supporter of the work. And he said, gee, it looks to me like, he says, if nothing else, he said, this has got to get analyzed by scholars.
You know, this is legitimate. And so I showed him my analysis of the empty tomb puzzle. I call it the puzzle of the empty tomb.
And he didn't agree with it. He said, you know, I'm not getting this. And I said, well, I won't put it in the book. He goes, no, no, you got to.
I said, why? He goes, he goes, even he says, you're so original. And so this, this is like such like, you know, no one's ever been on this path before.
Even your mistakes, you need, you really have a responsibility to put them in because you could be right. And if you are, you need to get that into the next generation of Bible scholarships for either correcting me if I'm wrong or understanding that that this is actually something that's in there.
You know, my, my, I gotta, I gotta voice this for the audience, for everybody and for you.
I, you know, I feel bad. Same goes for mythicists, for example, look at how academia treats them. I just posted this recently that it's like a Jew eating pork in Jerusalem today.
Go ahead and do it and see what happens. Okay.
It's sad because your work, I'm not sure I agree with every interpret, interpretation you have, but you know what I love about you, Joe? I don't know because you could be right. I'm not, not sold on everything because I don't have enough red.
I haven't, you can't, you know, I'm not going to make my conclusion before I get to the end, you know, of my research. I really want to keep going with an open mind. I'm not sure.
I'm not saying I disagree. I'm not saying I agree. I need to be open minded, but your work is so important that I, this is just my opinion.
All right. And I think this is an opinion shared by many.
Instead of bashing your work, I would, I would scour your work to find what interesting things I've never considered looking at the way that you have and say, okay, I agree with this, but I don't agree with that.
Okay. Cool. This is what we need. We need criticisms, but we can't just broad stroke, write you off because what you're doing is pioneering something that I think is very important in the field of research in these things.
Imagine if I did that with anyone else's work. Dr. Bob's writing. Why? Because he doesn't believe that Jesus exists.
There are countless things. Historicists read in Dr. Price's works that they use to go, you know what? That's actually interesting. I still think there's a guy at the base of the Barrow, but, you know, Dr. Price has some interesting, clever stuff I never heard and the way he looked at things I never knew.
Cool. You don't write the guy off. They write you off because of exactly what you mentioned with the Gospels. And that's sad. Read the work. I really recommend everybody to read this work.
I got it on Audible for one credit, and it's so well read too, so it's easy to keep track of, but I also have it, of course, in written. I've got the Flavian Signature Edition signed by Titus himself. No, I'm just kidding.
Do you imagine how much it'd be worth if that was the case? But, Joe, I'm encouraged when I read your work to try and look at things in a way maybe people missed. Too often tradition has, in my opinion, weighed our thought on how to view things.
Dr. Price comes in and says, hey, these seven Pauline epistles, the golden standard according to scholarship, he says, I challenge that. He's open to them not being written or the way we have them are not authentically written the way they were according to possibly an earlier source.
They've been tampered with, they've been edited, they've been changed by later Christians, things like that. Scholarship laughs at Bob. They don't mind.
For sure, yeah, yeah.
And they do the same for you and it's nothing.
Well, I'm hoping that the new book that Price has edited will kind of put an end to that. I think there's enough kind of, you know, sort of coherent scholarship to people to at least put people who are in the critical, you know, it's impossible, you know, the Bart Ehrenmann kind of idea.
Yeah.
I think that may move people away, but you know, look, for 2000 years, the character has existed as a historical one, right? And so it's iconic in a way he's iconic Jesus Christ is iconic in our, you know, in kind of our neurology in a way that all that virtually no other individual is.
So the idea that he is completely fictional is just such an enormous transition is going to occur incrementally. You know, I know a lot of scholars have come my way.
I mean, I would say several hundred now are actually dabbling or have moved out of the complete, you know, like, oh, he's crazy kind of camp and are actually now, you know, on the moving towards an analysis of it.
I mean, Dr. Price is one, you know, like, is he, you know, he doesn't agree with it, but he's open to it and he sees it as coherent and certainly the idea that the Son of Man is representing the Roman Caesar is an idea that he said that to me.
He says, look, this is just a very good interpretation. So all of these things are moving in the right direction. It's it's up to all of us to keep it going because I mean, I would just say, you know, that the Abrahamic traditions in general have been catastrophic.
I mean, you know, you mentioned Rabbi Singer's position about Christianity and he's completely right. I mean, anti-Semitism was one of the main goals of the of the Gospels, wouldn't you understand?
But the problem is, it's also the case with the Torah. I mean, you look at Deuteronomy where, you know, God wipes out the, you know, the Gentile ethnicities.
I mean, that's, you know, that that is a catastrophe in 19th century, you had reformed Judaism take hold. And that was very interesting.
The rabbis who were involved with it wanted to place Judaism into the world of the humanist.
And they took the position that it is that Judaism is going to be a gift for the whole world. It's not going to be a geographical or ethnic based religion.
It's going to be one that will be available for all mankind to connect mankind to God.
This group, they reformed Jews. Then when Zionism was basically brought into existence, not by Jews, which is something that most people, you know, they look, they start with Urzel.
And then they think that there was this Zionist movement that was organic and just solely coming from Jewish people. No, it was Freemason Anglicans in Britain that actually developed Zionism.
They're the ones that hired people. And, and when, when they started making proclamations like Lord Palmerston and saying now is the time for the Jews to return to their, to their motherland.
You know, he's the prime minister of England and Anglican and the head Freemason.
He's the one who ordered the gunboats to slaughter the Chinese to enforce the opium trade, you know, and so he's a crackpot of the highest dimension.
He's the one who's saying, you know, he looks at the Old Testament and he goes, now's the time. We've got to bring the Jews back.
The reformed Jewish congregations actually banded together and 700 of them sent 700 congregations.
They said, you know, we just don't see Judaism in this way. We think it can be a gift for the whole world.
It's not a geographical or ethnic based religion, but they were overwhelmed because the Zionist movement then was, you know, basically the funding sources.
And they also, they had all sorts of other political advantages.
And then you now you end up where fundamental Judaism is back and it's a geographical and ethnic to some extent religion.
And this isn't, you know, helping world peace.
And it's not helping mankind in general move toward a, you know, a better spiritual relationship with each other or the beyond.
So, you know, I would just take the position that the Abrahamic traditions in general all need to be put under scrutiny.
And we have to, you know, ask ourselves, is there, is there a better thought system that we can come up with that will create, you know, more harmony between humans and also enable us to develop like a higher level of spirituality.
It would be great. That's going to be very complicated and difficult unless you end up in another.
You had to, you had to bop my boat. No, it's very, very, but it's something that we have to be aware of.
I agree.
Give it a, give it an attempt to help it along.
I'm 100% on board with you with that, Joe.
I think it creates division. It creates problems.
It creates, I'm not good enough, a lot of people's, you know, I'm not good enough.
I need God's looking down on me, all these things.
So, Joe, you, you're a pioneer in this field.
I haven't forgot about you. I can't. How can I?
You know, I tried reaching out to you a long time ago when I first started, you're probably thinking, is this guy a death threat or is he going to turn out to be a someone who's good?
Well, it was you. It was Peter Bird.
Peter Bird's a big fan of your work.
And then I found creating Christ guys too.
And I found out, okay, these guys are treading the orthodox scholarship route, which was a very wise decision in different ways.
Getting Roman provenance in the eyes of as much as possible scholarship while utilizing your work and the wonderful things that you've done, they reference in their book, your book.
There's so much interesting stuff that we can deal with this.
Do you have anything that you'd like to say to the guest or to the audience before we leave?
No, just, you know, support Derrick.
This is a really great endeavor.
And I was mentioning to Derrick when we were off air that, you know, I really do think a year from now, you know, this will be one of the most popular shows on the internet because you just have such a good approach.
And I think it's also, it's just a historical moment when kind of the unraveling of the origins of Christianity.
It's time for this to happen.
And it's not going to, you know, slow down.
It's actually going to accelerate.
And I think you'll just be leading the charge, you know, into a new history for us.
Yeah.
Let's get to the bottom of it, ladies and gentlemen.
Let's get to the bottom of it.
I mean, let's check out some radical stuff.
Let's get into what the heck is really going on and go get Joe's book.
It's down in the description.
I've got the link and I also have his link so you can go check out his website.
And, you know, Joe, I'm hoping we get through these tough times together and do more shows.
If you guys are interested, let us know.
Have questions.
Write me.
And yeah, Joe.
Absolutely.
In fact, you know, if you ever want to do like a live show, it's fun to have questions.
And I mean, I love tough questions, you know, really, you know, the more difficult, the better.
I think it's fun for me.
I mean, I don't want to be so esoteric that, you know, only one person understands what
we're talking about.
But tough questions about the theory are good.
It's good to have criticism.
I enjoy that.
Well, I can do lives now.
So we can do them.
Well, if you want to do what I'd love to do, it'd be fun to do.
Okay.
Let's plan one.
We'll definitely do that.
Yeah.
If anybody forgot, don't forget, we are Mithvision.
We are Mithvision.
