Ladies and gentlemen, join MythVision's Patreon not only to support us but there are 72 videos
that I did with Dr. Dennis Armand-Thonone and Richard Carrier all on the Patreon Early Access.
You guys can ask personal questions when I go to interview these scholars and your help
on MythVision Grow.
We are MythVision. Welcome back to MythVision Podcast. I'm the host, Derek Lambert. I'm
super excited to get into this content because let's just face it. Dr. Robert M. Price has
talked about these things. I've had Elaine Pagels come on and talk about these things.
Various scholars with different flavors talk about these things, but today the one that's
going to shine the most is M. David Lytla. I hope you guys enjoy going to his blog, check
out his content. He has an old school blog. He calls it that himself. I'm not the one
who made that term up. This is just kind of a layback blog that he has. You should check
out. This is the book. We're going to be discussing the evil creator origins of an early Christian
idea. I'm excited to see what he says there. You can go also to Amazon. It's in the description.
Check out all of his other works. I will not waste any more time. Dr. Lytla, what is this
evil God? Take us through what it is.
Well, facetiously, I would say he's the God of COVID-19. I'm not sure if the pandemic
has caused people to change their theology, but maybe it should. Certainly for early Christians,
one of the strange ideas, strange to us in the modern world is that many early Christians,
sometimes called Gnostics, actually envision the creator of the world as an evil being,
pure evil, sometimes identified with devil, sometimes not, but nevertheless evil. There
was a mediating position of thinkers such as Valentinas and his followers who viewed
the creator as just, that is as righteous. It's not really that good, not really evil
either, but somewhere in between. Then there was what we might call the early Catholic position,
which unquestionably viewed the creator as good. That position obviously is the one that
became Christian orthodoxy. But then the question is, what happened to the other viewpoints? Why
did early Christians in that early Christian, early second century laboratory of ideas,
why did they envision the creator of this world as evil? That's the real question. What I find
out is that they viewed the creator of this world as evil for much the same reasons that an
atheist today looking at the Christian Bible, which includes so-called Old and New Testaments,
when reading some of that stuff, would also conclude that the creator was evil. The figure
that I most focus on is Marcian. Marcian is unfortunately not that well known, but he really
should be because he is one of the great and greatest of early Christian theologians who
was later excoriated and condemned. But one of the, I mean, just an amazing figure who something
gave us our first edition in the New Testament, which for him was a copy of the Gospel of what
we think of as Luke. Canonical Luke, many think, was a response to Marcian's version of Luke,
which appeared in the 140s. And that version of Luke we're told from two people,
Sertelian and Epiphanius, who are early church fathers. It didn't have the birth narratives.
And it also didn't have, they thought that it was a shortened version. It didn't have the other
certain features that they thought were, should be there, which were familiar to them.
But basically, this seems to be just a version of the Gospel that Marcian was using.
It doesn't mean that he shortened it himself. It doesn't mean that he's some crazy editor
racking things off the text. He's later accused of that. That doesn't seem to be the case. In fact,
he's not, he's not trained. He's not really an intellectual. He's a ship captain.
So, but what happens is Marcian publishes an edition of the Letters of Paul in this text,
which he calls the Evangelion. And in front of this, he puts in a text called
The Antitheses. And he says, Listen, folks, as an introduction to this edition of the Bible,
I'm going to give you a different, I'm going to tell you the difference between the true God
and this deity whom you've learned about in what we think of as the Old Testament or the Hebrew
Bible. And I'm going to show you all the differences. And he basically goes through and he says,
just draws these contrasts that are already sort of inherent in the Gospels. And he then concludes
that these these contrasts are so strong that they can't be talking about the same gods. So,
for instance, one of my favorite stories in the Old Testament is Elijah and the she bears. Okay.
Now, if your if your viewers aren't familiar with the story, this is one of the great gems of the
Old Testament where Elisha is walking toward the city of Bethel, and he's met by worse, we're told,
40 young lads. And in reading the substitution, which is the Greek version that Marcian had there,
these were very young lads, usually thought of as sort of like between the ages of four and ten.
And they went up to Elisha, and they just started making fun of him, saying, going up, Baldi,
going up. We're not exactly sure why they said that. But Elisha's response was interesting,
because he he stops in his tracks, and he starts to pray to the Old Testament deity Yahweh, as he's
called today. And Yahweh, he curses the children, and Yahweh immediately responds by sending two
gigantic she bears, and these she bears then maul every single one of these kids.
And the the Greek indicates that, yeah, basically, they ate, they ate the children, sort of like if
you if you remember, they broke their bones. There's this great scene in the Revanon where
with the bear attack, or Revanon, as sometimes pronounced, with Leonardo DiCaprio, and where
this huge she bear attacks them. And basically, that's what happens in this story. It's two of
these huge she bears, and they basically kill all these children. And Elisha simply walks on
and, you know, as if he's, you know, just whistling a tune and goes on his merry way.
And what Marcian, what Marcian said, that I want you to do this, I want you to contrast this story
of how the Old Testament deity responds to these children with how Jesus responds to the children.
And he he compared the story of the famous one where people bring children for Jesus to bless,
and the disciples say, and Anna, he doesn't have time. And Jesus is like, whoa, wait a minute,
wait a minute. Absolutely not. Bring these children here. I'm going to bless them. And
just, you know, goes out of his way to put his hands on them and bless them and transmit all
this positive energy. So what Marcian says is, listen, folks, you've got to contrast here.
I mean, anybody who's got eyes to see here, we've got an Old Testament deity who's ready to curse
and to kill little children because of a fairly minor fault against the Prophet. Okay. I mean,
there have been efforts to say that these children had some great malicious intent or that they were
somehow somehow doing some horrible thing to the Prophet. I mean, they're just,
they're kids. They're having fun. So how does the Old Testament God respond? Not with love and
sympathy with this overwhelming urge to bless. No, he responds with cursing and he breaks their
bones by sending she bears. How does Jesus respond? Well, Jesus is not at all like that. Not even a
little bit. I mean, the contrast is so clear. He goes out of his way, not to curse, but to bless
little children. He's got time. So ask yourself this. You've got this story about actions and we
can only judge character from actions. We've got the character of an Old Testament God and the
character of a God revealed in Jesus. And you tell me, Marcian says, if those are the same God,
because I'm going to contradict you. Okay. Those aren't the same deity at all. And if you had a
shred of honesty, you would say the same thing. And he goes through passage after passage after
passage and he says, look at this, the way that you can contrast the God of the Old Testament
from Jesus, the God revealed in Jesus. It's no question. Now, what we think is going on is that
Marcian is also, he's been accused of being a bit of a purist and a bit of a literalist.
But I'm also, I think a sympathetic reading is available here. He was also just trying to be
honest. And it's very hard. Pastors try to do this, sometimes just by ignoring the Old Testament,
sometimes by sugarcoating it. But it's very hard actually to unite some of these passages,
how God treats Job versus how God treats, you know, or how God treats Abraham telling him to
kill his son and seemingly just to test his faith, putting him through all that huge emotional stress.
And then how God interacts with others in absolute love and affirmation and so on and so
forth. What Marcian seems to be working with is a philosophical presupposition. And that
presupposition said this, God, if there is a God, cannot be evil. He can only be good.
And that philosophical presupposition means that if you go through the Old Testament with a fine
tooth comb, that God ain't good. I mean, I don't know what kind of blinders, what kind of sugar-coated
traditions you're working with. I don't know what kind of apologetic stance that you have.
But that God ain't good. He's killed everybody in the world with a flood. He's sent on fire
on cities, some of them, on five cities in Genesis 19. He kills people and orders the
genocide of the Canaanites. He's a murderer. And he seems to send bad dreams to people and
he's even against his own people if they dare to disobey him, threatens to exile them and wipe
them out. And that's what happens. So some would say it's a Marcian, of course, that both today
and in the past that, well, actually, the God of the New Testament really isn't that different
either. I mean, he did kill Jesus. I mean, he raised him, but he did kill him. But the point is this,
that Marcian is trying to interpret his biblical text. And he just basically comes out with an
answer that here's the situation. My theology is this. If you're reading the Bible carefully,
you're going to come up with this conclusion. First of all, there is a real being in the Old
Testament who is and masquerades as the God of the Jews. He's actually not a God at all.
But he's the deity, the angel, super angel that's looking after the Jews and protecting them. And
then there's the God of Jesus Christ, or the God revealed in Jesus Christ. And that's the true one,
because that's the good one. And so it's not that Marcian believes in two gods. This is what
heresiologists are always trying to say about Marcian. They're trying to say, well, how dare you?
You're just a dualist and a polytheist. Well, he's a dualist in the same sense that
Christian today thinks of the dualism between Satan and the true God, or Satan and God,
basically. In other words, Marcian just says, yes, there is this deity who inspires the Old
Testament, but he's actually not a deity. He's actually not God at all. He's some other dude
who is powerful, but he's not true. And then there is the true God, and the true God is revealed
through Christ. And that's the God I want you to worship. That's the God that's worthy of worship.
And so basically, there, in his church, you never have a reading from the Old Testament
for obvious reasons. So the question, the short answer to the question is, why did early Christians
think there was an evil creator? The short answer that, and the surprising one is,
they read their Bibles, and they read it closely. Wow. Wow. Well put. Oh, man. Did he ever, and
you know, I haven't read Marcian or against Marcian. I think it's against Marcian. Yeah.
Or against heresy. Sorry. I think, isn't it an against heresy? So Marcian is attacked by
all number of people. He creates an absolute firestorm. Yeah. So Irenaeus goes after him,
and Tertullian goes after him, and a five book were called against Marcian. Yeah. Oh my gosh.
He really felt the effects of Marcian then. And I think a lot of people were following
that. I would follow that if I was still in the worldview. That was pretty right. I even told
a Christian the other day, I speak to Christians all the time. I'm personally not one. I've left
all of that and personally labeled myself an atheist. I know I'm probably pigeonholing myself
here by a lot of people, but either way, you probably know where I'm coming from. But I told
him, I was like, if I was to ever swallow the pill again, it would never be this damnation
eternal conscious torment. Like universalism, maybe, you know, like we could, you know, like
that's a prettier picture. I could never accept what I did when I was a Calvinist. I literally
came to the conclusion that God predetermined eternal conscious torment for potentially some
of my own family members that I loved more than God, yet God supposedly it just, I don't even know
it's insanity. But the point is, did he ever notice that comparison between Samuel and Chronicles
about the numbering of Israel and hear one saying and Satan, you know, tricks David. And then the
other one says God tricks David. Did he ever notice that? That I don't think so. But the
unfortunate thing about Marcine is that we don't have, first of all, his version of the New Testament,
and we don't have his antithesis. Those were all destroyed purposefully. But what we do have,
and the reason why we can reconstruct Marcine's version of Paul and Marcine's version of Luke
is because the hereseologists, Tritone and Epiphanius go through line by line and say,
here's my text, here's where Marcine differs. And so we can sort of reconstruct it. So it's not
like a cue situation where the cue is like, well, we think there's a document, but it's hypothetical.
With Marcine, it's more like, we definitely know there's a document, everybody says there was,
and we can reconstruct it from the attacks that are made on it. So we've got a little bit of a
further basis because the attacks say, here's what Marcine says, and here's the true reading.
So basically, we're very thankful for them for revealing what Marcine says,
even as they try to destroy him. In effect, they preserved him. So that's one of the ironies of
history. But yeah, to get back to your question, in his antithesis, he had a number of passages.
I don't think he picked that particular one, but there are reconstructions of the antithesis,
and I go through most of the major ones in the Evil Creator book. And so, yeah, go for it.
And is this on Amazon yet? Because it didn't show...
I don't think I've put it on my author page, but I will do that. But yeah, it's definitely
available for... It's definitely on Amazon. I just have to put it on my author page here.
Well, let me do this, the Evil Creator, just to make sure we have it pulled up so people can see
it. I need to add it to my recommended book list so everybody knows. And I'm just going to put your
last name. We'll see. Here we go. So I'm going to go ahead and put this on my recommended... So
anyone can go down in the description and actually get this book. It's a myth vision recommended,
and it's added to the list. So you're going to definitely want to go down there and check that
out. Sorry, I just... I wanted everyone to see it while you're saying it. Well, I appreciate it.
Yeah. Yeah, there's a couple other passages that are worth bringing the attention of your
viewers. Even in the so-called New Testament, John 844, and this is an argument that has been made
long before me, April Deconic from Rice has made this argument. Basically, when you look at the
Greek of John 844, the situation is this. Jesus is talking with the Jews, and the Jews are
basically their fictional characters. This isn't any kind of historical event, but
they get in a spat, and they start debating about God. And Jesus says that if you love God,
you would love me, and they say that we're the children of God, and then Jesus shoots back at
them something like, so horrifying that it has sent shivers through the spines of many Christians.
He says to the Jews that you are sons of the devil, children of the devil, and basically,
you are followers of the father of lies. Now, what's interesting is in the Greek,
there's actually two ways to construct the passage, and very few English versions actually,
or none actually, that I'm aware of, actually tell you that there's another way to read the
passage. Can I guess? Can I guess just to see if I'm onto something here? Yeah, go ahead. Okay,
you, you're the father of the devil. Is this, am I onto something here, that there's a father
of the devil? Yes, exactly. Yeah. Dr. Price said this before, by the way, but I'd love to hear
what you say about this. Yes, exactly. So among scholars, among readers of Greek, they recognize
this ambiguity very easily, because the Greek says, who may sec to patris tutti eva, which
could mean you are from the father, comma, the devil, or actually, it's much easier to read it
as you are from the father of the devil. And so then the question is, well, Jesus, thanks for
letting us know, but who's the father of the devil? I mean, I didn't know that the devil
had a father. I mean, the devil has a daddy. Basically, this is the real question. And so
those early Christians who read this as you were from the father of the devil,
basically envisioned that, yes, the devil did have a father, and that father was the creator.
And because the devil has to come from somewhere, and the creator made the devil. So that's the
devil's father. Now, as you go on and read the verse, it says, and you want to do the desires
of your father, he was a murderer, a man killer, literally from the beginning, and he did not
stand in the truth because the truth is not in him. When he speaks a lie, he speaks of his own.
And because he's a liar, and his father is a liar, too. Now, that's, again, what the Greek says.
So it's not just once that we hear about the devil's father. It's actually twice.
Oh, my gosh. As if to make this clear. Jesus says, yeah, the devil's a liar. And so is his daddy.
So if you envision the creator as the devil's father, and the devil has, and the devil's
father is the one referred to as a murderer from the beginning, who stands not in the truth,
and who speaks the lie, or even if you don't view that as the case, both characters,
the devil and the devil's father are acting in similar ways. They're both liars and murderers,
basically, is the gist of the passage. So you can't possibly view the creator as a good guy
from on the basis of this passage, if you're reading it in the father of the devil reading.
So you have to conclude that the creator is actually bad, bad in the sense that
he is a killer and a liar. And if that's the verse that you're reading, well, then you wouldn't
view the creator as a good being. You would view him as something else. And then the true deity,
which Jesus reveals, is the one that you actually worship. But that's not the creator.
That's the creator, somebody else. And the image of the book, interestingly,
goes back to Egyptian mythology, as I'm sure you're well aware of. It's a picture of Seth,
or Seth, who is the Egyptian god of chaos and evil. And the most fun chapter to write in this
book was the first chapter, because there's this ancient tradition that started long before
Christianity, which depicts Yahweh, the Jewish deity, as Seth. It's an anti-Jewish tradition.
It arises, we think, in Egypt. The Jews, as you probably know, live in Egypt
long before the birth of Christianity. They come into contact with specifically Egyptian and
Alexandrian culture. And there are inevitable conflicts. And as we see, starting in the second
century BCE, that is about 150 years before Christianity comes on the scene, that the enemies
of the Jews are already depicting Yahweh as Seth, or as a form of Seth. And what that means is that
basically the idea of an evil creator, who is identical to the Jewish deity, is an idea
that predates Christianity, so that when Christianity comes along 150 years later,
this idea is already pre-made. It's not that the Christians have to come up with it themselves.
That is, it's already a manufactured idea in the culture that the Jewish deity is an evil being.
And what the Christians add to it is, well, guess what? Some Christians, that is, add to it that
we know the true deity. If that's not the Jewish deity, that's the universal deity, who's the good
deity. This is wild, by the way. And actually, I mean, it gets a little bit wilder. And actually,
yeah, so this explains why there's so many conflicts in the Middle East. There's a famous,
another early Christian who is decristionized, Vassalides. He says, he makes a comment,
which is transmitted through Irenaeus. And he says, listen, why are the Jews, why are they so war-like?
Because during his time, similar to the Palestinian-Israeli conflicts today,
or this past summer, we see all this constant war. Why is this happening in the Middle East?
Well, they ask the same question in antiquity. Why are the Jews so war-like? Why do they
sort of pick fights with Rome? Because there were three wars, or there was a first Jewish war,
where the Jewish state was wiped out and the temple was burned in 70. Then there was this
basically massive pogrom in the year 117, where the Jews of Egypt were wiped out.
And then there was another war in Palestine, the so-called Bar-Khoka War,
in which the Jews were, again, after a long, long, long, long guerrilla war campaign,
basically destroyed. So by 135, there's not even any Jews in Judea. They've been all exiled.
So Vassalides raised the question, why are the Jews so war-like? Well, it's because
their deity is also war-like. I mean, if you read the prophets like Isaiah and Jeremiah,
I mean, that God is armed for war, and he's like, you know, you're going to be number one,
you're going to be the best nation, I'm going to come, the kingdom's going to be established,
you're going to rule the world. So is it any wonder when the Romans come along that the Jews
think that they can pull off fighting the Eagle Empire? Well, it's their God whispering in their
ear through the prophets, saying that they are going to, it was going to be some climactic
armageddon like that, and so on and so forth. But all that's a lie, right? I mean, the Jews just
keep getting defeated because they're actually being lied to by their own protector deity,
the deity supposed to protect them, who's not actually a deity at all. He's just a sort of
an angelic figure who is masquerading as the true deity. And that's the reason why Christians are
different. There's actually a huge theological difference here. We believe in the true God,
and we aren't fooled by the corrupt prophecies of this Judean misfit, misfit of an angel called
who, you know, calls himself the Creator. So all this sounds like totally wildly radical today,
but when I did the research for this, I looked at what modern atheists said about the Old Testament,
and I just realized that, my goodness, they're saying the same thing that Marcian said.
You know, I mean, but the strange thing is they don't know anything about Marcian,
and actually what Marcian said sounded a whole lot better. I mean, and I just was like,
why don't these atheists know Marcian? They could get so much more ammunition. I mean,
that's like, why do we need to reinvent the wheel? In the second century, they already knew that this
God was horrible, and they already knew that he was a masquerading misfit who wasn't really a deity
at all. I mean, and they were Christian just as Christian as any other. I mean, no one, you know,
I mean, obviously later they were decristionized, you know, but in their own time, there were as
Christians as anyone today has any right to claim the Christian title, they were Christians. So,
and that's their theology. So it would be really great if people did a little bit more homework
on Marcian. It might help to get your book first off. I need to let everyone know, obviously,
because you do a lot of the homework for people, but it'll be great as a kicker, get your book,
and then go read Marcian. And maybe we can get some sources and stuff to really look into
the way you're going to find Marcian is through his opponents. So this is an interesting
point you bring up, but I'm glad we still have it. Let me ask you this. This is something that
piqued my interest. You blew my mind, by the way, just thanks a lot. I appreciate it. I probably
won't sleep tonight. No, seriously, this is a fascinating point you bring up. Marcian's second
century. It's clear Marcian is kind of seen as the pioneer of this whole idea in the sense
of what you're describing. However, when we talk about chronology of the Gospels, you say you think
Luke came last. Does that mean, and I don't want to get lost in the dating here, but does that mean
you think John comes before Luke? Yeah, I do. I definitely do. And what I'm talking about there
is canonical Luke. That is our version of Luke. What happens is this, if I can give you the
simplified version. Please, please. So in the traditional theory of the Gospels, the main line
theory is that Mark comes first, is written around seven and because he knows the destruction of the
temple, then comes Matthew, and Luke, and then comes John. And that's basically the traditional
line. The problem is that these Gospels seem to be in different versions. And what we have,
that is the version of what we now call Luke, is in a state of instability in the early second
century. So if you're reading this document, say, in Alexandria, it's different than the version
in Pontus that is northern Turkey where Marcian originated. So, and then you have the additional
factor of the text are updated. And we can see this in the case of Mark. So Mark, most scholars,
I think, would agree, ends with Mark 16.8, which is the women running away after the angel tells them,
you'll see him in Galilee. Well, that wasn't a sufficient ending. So people just added an ending,
and there are two endings of Mark, both dated to the second century, that people just added to
make the story seem more complete or more orthodox or whatever. And this is also what happens with
Luke, because when Marcian comes out of the scene, and he comes to Rome, and he published his version
of the gospel, plus Paul's letters, to produce what many think of as the first edition of the New
Testament. When other Christians get a hold of this, they're like, hey, wait a minute, this sounds
familiar, but it's not exactly the gospel that that we read. And Marcian as in Tertullian reveals
that Marcian fought or Marcian accused as opponents of doctoring his gospel. And what that means is
that people got a hold of his version of Luke and then added stuff. And they must have liked it enough
to want to use it, but then they wanted to add things. Yeah, basically, as texts get updated,
things are typically added, again, as in the case of Mark. So what I think was added to Luke
was the birth narratives, and basically, and material at the end, and material in the middle
was also underwent some changes, but not so radical. And whoever is updating Luke
is doing so in conscious opposition to Marcian. That's fact, or that's hypothesis number one.
Hypothesis number two is that whoever is updating Luke is also writing acts at the same time,
so that basically he wants to create an anti Marcianite version of church history as well.
So he wants to create an anti Marcianite gospel by using Marcian's gospel and adding stuff.
Including the preface, so that if you read the preface of Luke and acts,
you can tell that it's the same editor, not the same author, the same editor.
Same editor publishes then our canonical Luke and acts as a single document that go together,
a sort of diptych. And with that document, then, or early Catholics, other sort of
incipient Catholic movement accepts canonical Luke and acts, and they accept it in part because
it's so useful against countering Marcian's version of the New Testament. So what's actually
happening in the mid second century is that there are counter New Testaments, there's Marcian's version,
and then there's a version actually designed to counter Marcian. And scholars will always
disagree about this, but I think there's sufficient evidence to say that canonical Luke
and acts is responding to issues raised by Marcian. And those who've done the most work on this are,
well, several people. I mean, most famously, Marcus Vincent and Matthias Klinghardt,
Klinghardt is a German. Also, I believe it's Joseph B. Tyson, who is American. And yeah,
basically, and also Richard Pervo, who's given us a very useful book on dating acts. Although I
think he doesn't date acts late enough. But he definitely does mention that acts very well could
be dealing with Marcianite thinking, in which case it can't be earlier than say 140.
Wow.
And if acts is, if canonical acts is given at the same time as canonical Luke,
then that happened around 150.
I love this stuff. So okay, this is where I'm heading with this. So I'm glad you took us through
where you put these ideas. So John comes before that, which is still second century,
I bet, I guess. Yeah, I would say like, I'd make a distinction, John in the prologue,
I think John is written maybe around 100. And then the prologue is about 120.
Okay. So we have John here. And the question is, you brought up John eight. Now, some people,
if I'm not mistaken, will say, is this the adulterous woman or is that John seven? I can't
remember the adulterous woman is supposedly some people say. Yeah, she's inserted into John.
I believe it's, I believe you're right that it's eight. Yeah. Okay. Somewhere, somewhere between.
Yeah. Yeah. So someone who would want to come along and go, okay, you're reading of John eight
is late in the game and they want to interpolate. I don't even want to let's say this is there.
This is John. And that means it's before Marcian. So there's an early author here that is seeing,
if that interpretation of what you just described, they're seeing this and they're seeing that God
is not good and your God, the father of Satan is not good. Marcian's not like making this crap up.
This seems to be like early Christian movement already in the literary gospel tradition that
are saying this. They're already saying these problems. So Marcian's not like fabricating this
out of like midair. Early Christian movements are already presenting this kind of idea about
the God of the Old Testament. So it leads me to ask you this question. Marcian didn't just have
a proto version of Luke. Marcian had Paul. So then the question comes is the, the scholars
who want to say Paul within Judaism, if he had Paul, what did Paul believe about the God of the
Jews? You know, this makes me really want to open up and reinvestigate everything that Paul's
talking about. What is your take on it? Well, you'll be glad to know that the book definitely
focuses on major Pauling texts because definitely Marcian is viewed as,
he's the best known interpreter of Paul. There's absolutely no question about that.
Just to give you a taste or a foretaste, a teaser. Yeah. So I look at the passage
to Corinthians four, four, and that passage is where Paul's debating with his opponents as he
usually does. And he is making the comment that there are some people who have a veil over their
head. That is the Jews in context. And there are some, and there's us who don't, for whom the veil
is taken away. And he begins just to quote verse three here. He says, if he sort of,
you know, wants to slightly revise what he just said and sort of make an exception, I says, but,
but even if our gospel is veiled, because, you know, I'm difficult to understand,
it's only veiled among those people who are being destroyed. And among these people who are
being destroyed, Paul says, is the God of this age. And he says, literally, and he sautees to
Aonus, among whom the God of this age has blinded their minds so that they don't actually see the
enlightenment of the gospel of the glory of Christ. So basically, what's interesting is that
Paul says, well, yeah, there's a God of this age, the Greek word there is ion, he says,
there's a God of this age. And what does this God do? Well, he spends his time blinding people
from seeing the light of the gospel of Christ. So you're like, Oh, that's interesting. I didn't
know there was a God who did that. But then you read a little bit further, and you get down to
verse six. And he's like, Paul says, Well, guess what, folks, there's another God. And he's this
particular God is much different than the God I mentioned two verses earlier, who blinds people
from seeing the light of the gospel of Christ. The God in verse six says, out of light, darkness
will shine. And this God has shown into our hearts the enlightenment of the knowledge of the glory
of God. So basically, Paul himself says, There's two beings. I'm going to contrast them. I'm going
to call both of them God. One of them is a God who blinds people from seeing the light of Christ.
And the other one is the is the God who enlightens people with the light of Christ,
just a paraphrase. And the only reasonable question to ask here is exactly the question
that Marcian asked, to which God are you referring? Or do you actually believe that there are two Gods?
Or most people like, Well, is this some kind of cute metaphor? I mean, he certainly can't believe
that there's a God who blinds people. Right. And then so you compare this passage with first
Corinthians to nine or for sorry, first Corinthians to eight. And we get another little interesting
tidbit of Paul's theology. Basically, he says, you know, Jesus was crucified. Okay.
And this is all a mystery. And God planned all this before the ages. And none of the what he
calls archons, none of the rulers of this age knew anything about this particular mystery,
because if they knew it, they wouldn't have crucified the Lord of glory. So the question is,
and he says specifically that these rulers were blinded,
or that they didn't, they didn't know the mystery, so to speak. And so basically what Marcian did is
he just connected these two passages. He says, Listen, guys, here's Paul's theology. Paul says,
there are these evil beings running around called archons or rulers. They're blind.
And they blind people. They, they're blind to the glory of Christ. And they blind other people to
the glory of Christ. And then there's the true God who enlightens people to the glory of Christ.
And I'm going to tell you about the true God. That's the God revealed in Jesus Christ.
Everybody else who reads Paul is not going to buy that theology, but it's absolutely
based in a very, what I think is a reasonable reading of Paul. He's got
many, many figures running around. One of them is primarily evil. And another is primarily good.
And Marcian is saying, this is the reality. Now, I think the nuance that I bring to this is,
I think Marcian didn't think that the God who blinds people was actually God. Because I think
that is, he shouldn't be called a God. He was only masquerading as a God, so to speak.
The nuance here is important because Marcian, I think, is philosophically convinced that a God
who does evil isn't God. So a God who goes out and blinds people from seeing the light of Christ
and effectively preventing them from repenting, preventing them from coming to the knowledge
of the truth, preventing them from being saved. That God, there's no way you could convince me
that says Marcian that that God could be good. So he's not really a God. He's some kind of being
masquerading as a God. But he's not God. And whoever that being is, well, we don't worship him.
We worship the God who is the God who does the reverse of blinding, that is the God who enlightens.
I must ask this question. It sounds, would you point it out in 1 Corinthians 4-4,
and then was it 1 Corinthians 8? I can't remember, but it's in the same book.
Yeah. It's two separate letters. So 1 Corinthians 8 and 2 Corinthians 4-4.
So here you have this clear doctrine of these archons that's obviously blinding people.
These are the same people who crucify the Lord. These people are controlled. I think Elaine Pagels
is onto something when she says in her book on the origin of Satan, that it's not only spirits
or some type of power in the metaphysical, if we could use the term, which I don't think they thought
that way in the ancient world. But my point is, these are people that are being, if you will,
possessed by the powers that be. This is the way it looks like. And the question is,
is Paul looking at Jews when he says this? Because let's just give one little continuity
connection between John and Paul, the Gospel of John. The Gospel of John has this interesting kind
of Dionysian Lord's Supper type of idea that Mark and Matthew don't really go as explicit. Paul has
that in the Corinthian letters. Paul is like more, it seems to me, connected with the Lord's Supper
and John 6, chew my flesh and drink my blood to Paul's ideas than it is to Mark and Matthew.
And so I'm wondering if there's that continuity in the Johannine tradition and Paul's tradition.
And it also has this view of the Jews being guilty of it. Is Paul kind of saying the same thing here
when he talks about this? So, you know, without just beating around the bush and saying this is
Yahweh or the God of Israel that he's trying to point out, it sounds like he's saying that. And
even does this in Romans letter, he might do it a little more incognito. But in the Romans letter,
which might be a compilation of letters, he still keeps pointing out the blindness that has been
put upon Israel. Well, who are they? You know, there's a blindness and a stumbling block. And
it's like, what the heck is this? It makes me keep connecting dots in Paul's letters that just makes
me go, I have to know what Marcion thought because I may not even know what I'm reading about with
Paul without looking at Marcion. Right. Yeah. And the challenge is that because people have been
brought up in churches that are outgrows of the Orthodox movement, they've been so conditioned
and trained in their minds to read in an anti-Marcionite way that when you tell them that this
is also a way that the New Testament can be read or that Paul can be read, they're like, get out of
town. I, that's cold. I mean, never. And I'm not even going to listen to that. I mean, that's just
crazy. But what I would encourage your viewers to really think about is, yeah, that modern
socialization and historical conditioning that we have. So whether or not your atheists are
fundamentalists or somewhere in between, that really doesn't matter. We're all products of
the Orthodox tradition. And what we think about as Christianity is that Christianity,
which went out in the fourth century, that is the Constantinian version of Christianity. Right.
So that's the Orthodox version that beat off all these other competing versions in the great
laboratory of Christian ideas. And that's why the second century is one of the most interesting
of all centuries, because there's no rules. There's no Orthodox emperor out there going to kill you
if you're going to say anything. And you can say anything. And the Bible is wide open for
interpretation. So absolutely, Marcion, Marcion's reading has a logic. And the ironic thing is that
reading, yeah, as I said, appears in modern atheist literature. They just don't know that
they're making Marcioni arguments. The other thing to keep in mind about the Judaism question is
the affirmation of the Judaism of Jesus and Paul has become very important for modern biblical
studies after the Holocaust for obvious reasons. I mean, we want to protect against anti-Jewish
readings. And that's another reason why people don't like Marcion, because they're like, what?
How could he say this? That just sounds so anti-Jewish. But the issue is when you're doing
real historical work, you have to put your mind really in the place of the second century and
not ask all modern questions, right? It's important for us as modern people to emphasize the Judaism
of Jesus and Paul. It wasn't that important in the early second century. And to early
second century Christians, the fact that Jesus was Jewish, well, I don't see anyone shouting
that from the rooftops. I mean, yeah, he was, but who cares? That wasn't the most significant
thing. The most significant thing was that he's the Son of God. So who cares whether he grew up
in Nazareth? I mean, we emphasize certain things because of where we are in history,
but those things weren't the most important things for the early second century. I don't think
Marcion, there's a lot of people who would say that Marcion was anti-Jewish or that he wanted to
throw away the Old Testament. Totally bogus. Marcion was the best reader of the Old Testament
that I know of in the early second century, the most honest, the most thorough, the most critical,
the most engaging. He stopped throwing it away. He's researching it. He's just not using it in
his churches because he thinks that the theology is totally wrong. Yeah. I mean, who wants to read
in church a document which has God killing people with a flood and commanding genocide?
I mean, if you want to read that as a historical document, fine, but don't read it in church.
And frankly, most churches don't. I mean, they have this implicit agreement that, yeah, we have the
Old Testament, but we don't read it. We don't read the tough bits. The part about Elisha and
the she bears, you know, or the part about, you know, the killings and the genocides and the wars
and all that jazz and God torturing Job just to see if he'll remain faithful. Well, I mean,
let's be honest, what's the last sermon we heard on that stuff? I mean, it's really not emphasized.
So that in itself is a kind of Marcionite move. I mean, you can in some way, you know,
stand up for the Old Testament. But in the end, you don't really read or study it. So
are you filtered it through like God's justice has been now punished on to his son so that all
of that bad atrocity, the way that they try to interpret it today is like the Old Testament,
Old Testament, brimstone and fire, but God's brimstone and fire was put upon his son. Therefore,
you know, all that you deserve, which was the flood and the fire and the she bears and the
whole nine or whatever, you know, you deserve all that. But Jesus took all that on and it's like,
whoa. But I will say this, a quick question as we end this episode, I really seriously hope
everyone goes and gets this book. I am definitely getting this. The question is this, when he says
you're a liar from the beginning, that reminds me of Genesis. And it makes me think not just
Genesis, it makes me think of the garden. And it makes me think that this eating of the fruit
idea is a trick. Because even Dr. Price, for example, do you talk about this in your book? I
don't want to sneak into this if you get into this in your book at all. I do talk about Genesis, but
not garden. Well, I do, but in a different way. So go ahead. Okay, simply put, Dr. Price was talking
about how there is the idea that God lied. He told them, you know, look, if you eat in that day,
you will die. And this idea was the serpent comes and says, no, no, no, no, you'll be like the gods,
knowing good and evil. The serpent here, or the snake that I think is a literal snake in actual
Genesis, in the actual context. But that's going into A&E literature and ancient Near Eastern concepts
and stuff, Mesopotamia, all that. But the snake actually tells the truth. No, no, no, you won't
surely die. You'll become like the gods, knowing good and evil. And then God has to kick them out,
like literally keeping them from being able to access the tree of knowledge or of good and evil,
not the tree of life. So it's not that they died that day. In fact, God kicks them out and makes
sure they can't live. So it's almost making me think, and I wonder if the author of John of
CNS is going, this God, this picture of this God here is a liar from the beginning.
And it makes you wonder if that's the way they interpreted it.
Exactly. And I don't want to be overly political here, but it's exactly like a story that I
saw recently about two former Russian spies who were poisoned in the UK.
So basically, the allegation is that Putin, or some high up Russian official,
ordered their poisoning. And that seems to be the case. So why is that? Because they were
revealing information. And then when you go to the Russian officials and say, well,
what do you say about this? They say, oh, that's a lie. That's just the West trying to make Russia
look bad. I think definitely Marcy is that kind of reader who wouldn't accept that traditional
reading of Genesis, because God basically is acting like a Russian dictator or any dictator
in Genesis. First of all, it's proved that he's a liar because they don't die on the same day.
So we know that the God of Genesis is a liar. That is, he's an absolute liar, first of all.
But second of all, he's weak. And why is he weak? Because if he really wanted people to know stuff,
he wouldn't be so insecure and kick them out of the garden. I mean, he's really quite insecure
about his own identity. He really doesn't want people to improve. Whereas that has become more
like him. Whereas the God of Jesus, I think Marcy would say, wants you to assimilate to him and
is more like the Platonic deity. Remember, Plato says that the ethical goal of life is to become
more like God. And how do you do that? You become righteous and wise, right? And God wants you to
be more like God. And that's the gospel of deification. That's another interview.
Oh, goodness. This makes me want to get into misogyny, too. There's so many things that make
me think that the way the patriarchal system, they're already coming in and Paul's saying,
neither male nor female, he's, ah, you got me excited, man.
Well, I'm glad. Okay, I'll just zip up now and you can, yeah, let your you and your viewers read
whatever you want to want to read. And then I can maybe come back someday and talk more about it.
Well, I sure hope you do. I hope everybody gets the book. I will be getting this myself.
I really look forward to taking a deeper dive and maybe we can do
further episode of the Enlightenment that I might have after this. We can get super excited
taking a deeper dive into the content. You really make me want to, because I have to
read your other ones. I've already been told about these. Where's it at? Let me hit back here.
I have already been warned about your other literature that is a must read, especially,
how do you pronounce this again? Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. It just means it's Latin for Jesus the
God. Yep. So this right here, we need to talk about divination becoming divine and deification,
if you will. Not divination, what am I saying? How the Gospels became history. I need to finish
reading this. There's a lot that you go into that the ancient world, you know, understanding,
not just your Bible interprets the Bible. Like, I mean, that's where a lot of viewers are like me.
They came from all they know is Genesis to Revelation, pulpit preaching. We've never really,
we know of Philo. We've heard of Plato. We've heard of the guy named Josephus. Like just,
that's the best we got. You start naming some of these other people and we're like, who? What?
We're like really misinformed already and ignorant. And we really need more information.
So I have been told by countless people, including guys who disagree with you, Dennis McDonnell,
Richard Carrey, I got to do that. Got to point out, they just last week told me,
you got to read his work. So I highly recommend it. I look forward to this again.
Thank you for giving me the opportunity, seriously, to interview with you.
Well, thank you, Derek. It's been great. And yeah, I've listened to many other interviews and
certainly I think Dennis and Richard's work is really a thought provoking. And I really appreciate
you bringing a whole range of scholars and experts and getting the, getting the word out.
It's really important. So thank you. Thank you. I feel like that's my calling, you know,
connecting scholars where they never would have other than criticize each other. Because that's
what you guys do. You got to poke holes. You're experts at poking holes. And for those of you
who are watching and you just, you don't know how to poke holes, take it from me. I'm learning.
Okay. You can learn how to poke holes too. And this is coming out really, really weird,
as I'm saying it. But seriously, we are meth vision.
