The resurrection from the dead, the biblical narrative accounts of what looks like a resurrection
is supposed to happen, and there's a group called Full Preterist.
Full Preterist believe that the resurrection from the dead actually happened in our past
in actual history, but there's also another group called Israel Only, and a lot of them
are Full Preterist, and they believe that it actually happened as well.
Today we're going to be speaking with David King.
David King actually is an Israel Only Full Preterist, yet he thinks this is just a story,
and according to the story, it looks as though Full Preterism, the resurrection from the
dead, all that stuff happened according to the narrative.
I know it sounds a bit confusing, but you'll get to hear me and him dialogue back and forth.
There's an interesting part in the New Testament where there's two guys, Hymenaeus and Phyletus,
who believed that the resurrection had already happened.
Now how could that be?
I mean, if they were anticipating a universal resurrection as the church espouses, how could
someone really run around teaching that people are falling for it, just doesn't make sense
to me.
I hope you guys stay tuned, or as peaked, with your interest as I am, on this discussion
that I had with David King.
We'll see you there, and don't forget to subscribe to his channel.
No brainer.
No brainer.
Okay, no brainer.
Now when you say Full Preterism, you're not saying actually like a physical resurrection
happened, right?
You define that differently.
It can be both.
It doesn't have to be either or.
Okay, and when you say both, when you say physical, what kind of resurrection is that?
In a physical resurrection.
So you had Paul, I think it's first, that's the audience four was talking about the dead
rising first, and then the rest, and they were all going to go to the place that Jesus
ascended to, you know, it's kind of to summarize all of that.
So that would have been your, your, your physical, the spiritual would be Paul's point of view
on the death brought by the old covenants.
And then once was dead in trespasses against the old covenant, but now I'm alive in Christ
in the new covenant.
I should say now I'm a new covenant Israelite, new creation, the first century that's that's
alive.
Yeah.
So I was an old creation, you know, Israelite under the old covenant creation where there's
a motif there that speaks about the old covenant and the new creation is going from old to
new, like, and then you had a falling from grace that meant that they were falling from
the new covenant and going back to the old covenant, going back to the law.
So these contexts are super small.
They're not a global, you know, context.
It's just like only found in Israel only, you know, group that you hear except some scholars
like here and there might touch on it barely and they never really drive it home because
it's not relevant to the bigger topic of hand Christianity, the church, which is something
that's like, you guys are saying is built on something completely different the way
that they've done things.
You said the dead rise first.
Now here's why I've been saying, and I was full preterist, you know that I was like hardcore
full preterist.
I believed all these things actually happened physically or spiritually, however you wanted
to find it because I actually thought it was spiritual in nature, like wholeheartedly.
I saw relevance of, you know, Jesus was rising again, but I could never make sense because
as I was a full preterist, I'm hearing Ward Finley and other, other, you know, Don K.
Preston and everybody's disputing Don K. Preston says Jesus, when he ascended on high, he cast
off his body.
The church says, no, this is a, what is the terminology where he's completely God and
completely man at the same time.
And there's, there's like a, it's a doctrine in the church where it's kind of the standard.
It's an actual doc doctrinal theological term where he's completely God and completely man
at the same time.
So he has his flesh, okay, still in his flesh.
And I said, well, dang, and Don K. Preston says, well, he threw off his flesh, right?
When he went up, he used to, whatever that means, somewhere put aside, it just doesn't
matter anymore, whatever.
And then you have others who came on and says completely spiritual.
And then you had others like Rivers of Eden come on and go, nope, physical.
And these are people, you probably have no clue who I'm talking about, guys.
This is within preterism, okay?
When I started realizing, okay, guys, don't walk on water and dead people don't rise and
fish, don't swallow people, take them down into the belly of the sea or the beneath all
the waters and they survive three days later or, you know, seas don't split.
Even though your documentaries will try and give you natural causes for why the plagues
of Egypt even happen or, you know, donkeys don't talk, snakes don't talk, right?
You see it's allegory or you see that there's literature here that might be not literal.
When you get in the New Testament, though, this is where this gets interesting.
John has dominated the scene saying Jesus had to rise again from the dead.
And I try to spiritualize that as much as possible for me.
And the closest I could come is that if Paul's teaching a spiritual resurrection, then he's
saying if there was a guy named Jesus, he spiritually rose from the dead.
In some way, he rose again with a new body.
If he did not, and this is physical, I call bullshit.
And that's why I'm not a full preterist.
Not saying this stuff wasn't supposed to happen then.
But I'm like, whether or not, what's he mean?
What does this guy even mean that Jesus rose?
Because he says if he did not rise, we are still in our sins.
He acted like everything's bogus BS.
And even Paul admits it, right?
Yeah, I'm going to bring up a YouTube video that's almost an hour long that Ryan McKittrick
did on four different resurrection concepts all together.
So that's why I say it could be both.
And that it makes sense that it would be both.
When you say both, this is why I'm trying to drive home though.
When you say it's both, do you mean physical, literal, physical bodies dead that rise in
the concept?
No, I know you're not a believer.
You're saying like, do you understand where I'm coming from?
Like is the text trying to say that because if it's saying that literal dead bodies are
supposed to rise, literal physical flesh bodies are supposed to resurrect from the dead.
This is why I say, huh, that didn't really happen.
Therefore it isn't an actual prophecy.
Like Jesus said, this temple will be destroyed and will rise again.
And then of course, one of the gospel says, we was talking about his body.
Now the actual temple did fall and we know the gospel narratives, the synoptics are clearly
indicating the temple destroyed Josephus validates this other historians who are non Christian
validate this and they all tell, Hey, that shit went down.
But there are other claims that Jesus rose from the dead physically or spiritually.
That's up for grabs.
However, if he rose physically, that would mean the saints are going to rise physically,
which then makes it go.
If it's full preterism, that means the saints already rose from the dead.
To me, it's like none of that actually happened.
So I can't say fulfillment in that aspect happened.
Someone might say, Hey, this is spiritual hymen, as in fire, lead us kind of idea.
I don't know.
I'm just throwing it out there that the only way full preterism would make sense to me
is if the author's intent was not physical to me, and it was actually spiritual in nature.
And it's like, Hey, they had some wackadoodle spiritual concept.
They applied to resurrection and said it happened.
You say it's physical and then it's like, what do you mean bodies rose from the dead?
You know what I mean?
I'm just.
Yeah.
I think I think the texts are written that it's supposed to be both, you know, whether
it happened or not.
Okay.
And so like Ed Stevens is a full preterist that believes in a rapture in the first century.
And I can see why.
I totally see why they would take rapture.
So it's like, you've got a blend of all of it.
So you can't say like, we're talking about full preterism.
You can't say that it's one stance, you know, when it comes to the conclusion.
There are many conclusions, but their conclusion is that it's all fulfilled in the first century.
You know, so that for resurrection concepts in scripture on the Israel only information
YouTube channel, you'll see this black logo with IO inside of it.
There's a YouTube deal there that for resurrection concepts when scripture is 44 minutes long.
Ryan I think kills it.
I think he does a great job showing that there are four different like motifs there all about
resurrection.
Okay.
Yeah.
And you brought up a valid point, something interesting.
And this is what I've been saying for about, I don't know, since I've had Dr. Price on
my show is all of these teachings could be in the New Testament.
I'm saying they don't necessarily have to be the same.
Okay.
Paul might be teaching a certain kind of resurrection James is probably teaching something.
This is a point they can all be true if you try to somehow make all books fit if you try.
And I'm trying to say these critical scholars are saying nice try buddy, but this isn't going
to all make sense.
It doesn't all fit together.
One of them's teaching this kind of resurrection or one of them's teaching a certain type of
concept that is not the same.
Their theories of grace to faith or based off works and faith and works together and not
grace and faith alone and like Paul and there's so much that's different that you like what
Christians have done to try and make sense of it is they say, and this is what happened
early on.
They all try to make it say, Hey, hey, hey, hey, stop.
It's okay.
You're an idiomite Jew.
You believe that Torah still stands.
That's okay.
I know Paul doesn't agree with that.
So we'll write a gospel that make sure that you can still obey the law and be a good Christian
who's still platonic in nature, who believes in some otherworldly realm possibly and combine
the two and scholars are saying early Christianity started taking these different kinds of Christianities,
one with physical resurrection, one with spiritual resurrection, possibly the other two that this
guy's talking about.
And I need to check them out.
I've seen them on Facebook.
And they blended them and literally created a hodgepodge of theology.
So if it's right for you, it's there.
So anyone who has these concepts can go to this book and go, bless you, my teachings
are right there.
It's, you know, part of what my master, whether that's a Gnostic master kind of concept or
a Gnostic teaching, you know, might be in there or, Hey, it might be more Catholic in
nature.
It might be more Jewish in nature and you can go and find it there.
And they did a good job trying to, but if you really take a magnifying glass, these
critical scholars are going, Hey guys, read my book, you'll see some issues and these
are things we want to point out.
I think personally, what Preterism has done, I want your opinion, full Preterism has told
me it has to happen then.
What it's done is very clearly tell me this stuff's supposed to happen very soon.
Like it has to.
But it's also helped me go, Nice try.
Like this didn't actually happen if it's this.
So technically, yeah.
With that theory, you'll be thinking just like any other advanced scholar.
You know, just like Bart Ehrman, you know, Jesus was an apocalyptic teacher, right?
He came during a time that an apocalypse was coming and everything was going to end.
So that's what the story is about, you know, and, and the fact that it didn't end the way,
you know, the early church expected it to, that's why terms were redefined.
So instead of a judgment that was coming to Old Covenant Israel in 8070, which is what
actually happened, you know, okay, well now judgment is something that happens to everybody
when they die.
You know, right?
But everything switches to the afterlife.
Eternal life is no longer this, this age that's coming, the after this after 8070, everything's
going to be totally different and there's going to be this age and that we all inherit
all these things and everything is wonderful and we can rule the world from our, you know,
instead of that, well, it didn't happen that way.
So now eternal life is in the afterlife, it's in the afterlife and it's up in heaven
somewhere.
Right.
It's like this horizontal axis was shifted.
And so now everything is in the afterlife.
It's all up in heaven or it's down in hell, you know, judgment.
And so we rephrase this like a unquenchable fire and the judgment and all that kind of
stuff.
Well, that's what would happen when a city was destroyed, unquenchable meaning that
you don't put the fire out until it burns everything up.
When a city is burning up, you can't stop that fire is, you know, it's inspired by God.
It's going to totally burn everything up.
You know, there's no way to stop it.
It's not, it's not eternal consciousness or anything like that.
But for these, this early church, when they read, you know, those kinds of words, they're
like, oh, well, that's the afterlife that they didn't actually have the word hell until
like the eighth century AD.
So they were using other, you know, the Gehenna and the other words to describe this afterlife,
you know, experience.
And then you've got the apocalypse of Peter coming out and stuff and getting super creative
with those after life concepts.
So that's all early church chaos, in my opinion.
But the original story was horizontal timeline, Jesus comes on a line, stuff's coming to this
generation, you know, and then after that, those who survive are going to get all disreboard
and then this age should come that starts in 87 or whenever it's going to be amazing,
you know.
And so you've got some Israel only full preterists that are like, you know, they're going into
the afterlife and it was a rapture and you know, and so they're getting all those promises
there elsewhere where we can't prove a damn thing, you know, everything is elsewhere.
So what do you think?
Oh, go ahead.
No, go ahead.
I was going to ask you, what do you think Jesus meant when he said, my kingdom is not
of this world?
What do you think he means like old covenant world and then it's a new covenant world,
but why would he tell that to Pontius Pilate?
Like, do you kind of get where I'm going like, why would that even be mentioned?
I, and I only tell you what scholars are saying, right, because this is the thing.
I don't give a crap what, you know, what you say or what you say in terms of like, if
you're trying to tell me what it is, I like to gather information.
And there's the idea of Phylo Phylo was an Alexandrian Jew.
He was super platonic in nature.
Platonic meant that technically to give you a simple term duality is the idea that the
flesh is evil and the spirit world is this idea of like, get rid of the body kind of
idea.
Yeah.
Right.
And the soul is kind of where our modern concepts of soul came from.
Right.
And that's where the church took this like, like hook line and sinker, the church really
drove this to the core.
And maybe there was an earlier sense, idiomite type or some type of Christianity that wasn't
as platonic and more Jewish like, but, and I don't know how true that is just throwing
it out there that it might be.
But that's where this idea the church is saying when Jesus is saying my, my, you know, my kingdom
is not of this world.
He's a king of another world.
Like most scholars Bart Ehrman, Dr. Price, these guys, they'll say, Hey, there's clear
evidence that he's actually saying he's not going to reign in this world.
Like he's not going to be the Messiah King ruling from an earthly throne, but rather
some other worldly realm.
I'm just throwing it out there and I see why they say it, but shit, that doesn't mean
that your concept's not even being taught in other places as well.
Or does it define this?
And does it have to define this?
Can this still stand and be true based on platonic duality, et cetera?
And yet the other interpretation that you're giving be true in other places?
I don't know.
Yeah.
Two different answers on that.
It can be either or.
So it's either Jesus speaking so elsewhere where cosmos is used in the New Testament.
Most times it's speaking of the old covenant world.
It's not speaking of just secularism, you know, or the Romans and all that kind of stuff.
You know, which is old world is kind of that's the word cosmos.
So that kind of shows you the imagery of old creation, new creation, it's all covenant
language.
So when Jesus says that, he could be speaking of that or he can be just of secular everything
world.
And he was serious.
It's in a whole different area.
So there isn't a black and white answer for that.
For me, that's a great question.
And there's really, I don't think we'll ever really know for sure.
But I have a good case together about cosmos being using covenant language, just the old
covenant world and the new new creation being created, speaking of the new covenant people,
you know, you always knew covenant people.
And I'd like to see more of this.
You do a lot of that.
For those of you who are watching, I'm going to bring more of this on.
Of course, I'm not just going to bring Israel only stuff.
I want to bring other scholars.
I've got a show to do tomorrow with Dr. Price in the morning.
And I'm excited because we're going to talk about the Old Testament.
And I know you're going to do shows with them.
I am a huge fan of unity, OK?
I know Christians, OK, they're not fundamentalists, but they're Christians who love me to death,
OK?
And they love my show.
They're like, dude, I watch a show and I love it.
And I'm like, really?
Really?
Yes.
I'm not even kidding.
Because I'm going to tell you something, screw all this.
This is awesome and fun.
I love humans, man.
Like I really care.
And I know what it's like to be stuck in a mindset or an idea, if that's all you know,
or it's something that gives you hope.
I'm not here to tear you down, but I will tell you, if you're willing to kind of open
up and say, OK, who the hell is Celsus?
You know?
What did he write?
And what do you mean?
I never even heard of a guy named Celsus.
Oh, he's a pagan in the third century who's actually debating church fathers, telling them
that they don't know who their Jesus is, that their Jesus was born from a Roman soldier
sleeping with Mary.
His name was Pantheris or something, Panderis.
And he pretty much was talking about how this Jesus taught his followers to be beggars, like
literally taught them to beg for money and all this stuff, right?
And I'm like, what?
So he might be completely biased and just talking crap against the Christians and making
up stuff about Jesus.
Have you ever really, like, unbiasedly sat in the middle and said, what did the what
did the believer say?
What are the pagans saying?
What are other people talking about Jesus?
And that's what you're doing, too.
But you're doing something unique because nobody else is actually taking this approach
you're taking that I'm aware of with full preterism in mind.
And do you understand, like, why I'm skeptical now of being a full preterist at all?
Like, if anything physical, if there is a claim, let me just give you an example.
Let's say Paul meant physical.
All right, let's just say, yes, spiritual and physical, let's say both, right?
Let's say he's saying spiritual physical and let's say someone actually died and they're
actually supposed to rise from the dead within a certain context.
First of all, I don't believe Jesus actually rose from that.
If he existed, I think if he died, he's dead.
He never rose.
Cognitive dissonance would be the best case in my opinion.
If he really existed.
And that would be along the lines of Bart Ehrman, et cetera, saying, look, dude, there
was no empty tomb because he was dead and they, they had imaged him or pictured him
or experienced him after his death, like 15% of healthy people do of their loved ones when
they pass.
So they had this post-mortem experience.
If he, if he didn't rise and the saints are supposed to rise like him, that I don't even,
I can't even like wrestle this because it's like, to me, it's like obvious.
It didn't happen.
If it didn't, if, if it's saying it's physical, it didn't happen to me.
That's just where I'm at.
Unless I'm defining physical different.
You see what I'm saying?
Unless you mean physical, like, I don't know how you could say it's physical.
That's what I'm saying.
I don't know.
Yeah.
It would be easy.
It would be easy for the story to actually be saying, you know, that what happened to
Jesus, all of his experiences, what's going to happen to his followers, you know?
And so we see Jesus ascends and he goes up into this otherworldly place and we know that
he went up somewhere.
He didn't just like leave because, you know, where did he go?
Right?
He went somewhere and they're looking up, you know, whenever.
So they were all going to go somewhere else.
So the, the idea of a rapture, as far as the story goes, you know, what is the narrative
actually saying?
You know, it's, it could be supporting that, you know, an actual rapture that they all
went up somewhere.
Just the story.
The story.
And that's why I'm saying, like, for people that believe that it's a myth, you know, it
actually, it works really well that way.
Being seen as a fable and as a myth, because I believe it excludes the early church believers.
I believe it excludes the modern church that the pecs themselves do that.
Yeah.
Go ahead.
No, no, no.
I can't.
Why would I interrupt that?
I can just keep going, man.
I don't know.
I just could.
Yeah.
That is good.
I enjoy that.
Yeah.
Please do.
Like where you went with the rapture, I asked Dr. Bob one time, and I'd love to get him
back on the show to talk about this.
Maybe he knows more.
He mentioned there's only one other religious worldview or myth that has something like a
rapture to happen.
Or maybe I'm mistaken.
Maybe since there's many.
No, he said there's only one where I think there's a collective group.
Okay.
But I think many type of apotheosis concepts of dying gods being ascended, et cetera.
That happens like a lot from Osiris to you name it type, you know, deities that there's
like an apotheosis that takes place Romulus, I think happens.
And most scholars say he never existed.
And this is why I like bringing the heavy hitters like him on because, hey, look, maybe
we'll marry these ideas at some point and find a way where they blend.
And that's why I freaking do what I do, bro.
And I'm not going to give up, but I don't want my old friends to be, dude, during the
minority, bro.
I'm an underdog cheerer.
Okay.
Like if you're at a football game, I don't have a team, but if the weak team is going
up against a good team, I hope to see something shocking.
You know, so I'm interested in that.
If this is just a story, why would they write it?
Just a clue.
I guess what I'm saying is if 7080 is the end, they're putting an in cap to the whole
story.
They're trying to say, look, Israel's stories ended.
It's, it's done.
They're raptured.
They're in their promised land.
They're in the, in the new Jerusalem, you know, in the 144 cubit measurements, which
is funny because it actually is tying off of their similar measurements to the cube
that's used in the story with Inky, the God, Inky and Gilgamesh, you know, way, way back
in the day.
And they're using similar numerical values and stuff.
If it is ended and it's wrapping up, someone's writing their stories got an end, you know,
and I know there's not like a way to really answer this.
It's just complete hunch.
Why would they exactly?
What do you think?
I guess.
Um, well, realistically, we, we, realistically, we had the demise of a people, you know, and
so if somebody wants to write about the last of the Mohicans, they can wrap, you know, wrap
it up that way if they'd like.
And then if that's the case, if that was the original case, then maybe you have layers
that came after that people, you know, revising, changing it, adding themselves to it, you
know, but I still feel like the original texts themselves, what we have today excludes
everybody else.
It's just strange because then you have the early church, you know, then you have, you
know, a evangelical religion that comes out of it where they're going and they're talking
to everyone and their mother about joining this religion.
And I believe the texts actually exclude everybody else.
So, um, there's a whole concept of, uh, like in modern Christianity, it's called Calvinism
and you were a Calvinist when you were a believer and you had predestination.
You had all that kind of stuff.
Well, I don't see that anywhere in the church until what, the 1500s, we finally start seeing
that come to light.
There's a lot that seemed to come out like, there's a lot that came out maybe 500 years
ago, um, that we take as common sense today, they never had for almost 1500 years.
I know that, and I did a, uh, I wrote a lecture on this back in my Bible college that was
getting my bachelor's degree in biblical studies in theology as a biased fundamentalist Christian.
But I was Calvinist at the time and what inspired me was John Calvin and other scholars that
if you go back to Augustine, now Augustine did delve into predestination.
I was, there's concepts within these theologies and you have, you have predestination and
you have double predestination.
And there was a church father, but he comes after Augustine and he held to a double predestination
idea and simply put within Calvinism and different.
I became a staunch hyper Calvinist.
I became a Calvinist who said, look, I'm not going to soft it for you.
I'm not going to beat around the bush.
I'm not going to play games.
I'm going to tell you that God purposefully made Adam fall.
Like, like he not only causes all things.
He did so according to his goodwill and purpose.
And the whole goal was to Romans nine, right?
Like the idea was that he had a vessel, special vessels and there were common vessels.
The common vessels will be thrown away.
Dude, I was willing to wrap.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And it was just crazy, dude, but, uh, I believed that you couldn't get around it as a Calvinist.
Like how do you let God own?
They have this idea that evils the lack of something.
So they borrowed ideas that, well, you know, he's not really guilty of sin.
James, the book of James clearly is trying to protect God from ever having his hands
touching sin.
So we have to back up and they use similar ideas like where the, he sends a lying spirit
an angel.
He sends a lying spirit in the Old Testament, but he himself didn't lie yet.
It's like, if you look at first Samuel and you look at the other place where David's
numbering the people and you had Satan in one place, we have God in the next place.
Makes me kind of like, why is Joe, for example, you know, like he sends Satan to test Joe,
but really did, did, I mean, like God sent him, did he forget, you know, I don't even
know.
He was an agent.
Yeah.
He was an agent.
Yeah.
But it all comes from God.
To do it.
That's all I'm saying is like Calvinism, to me, like showed that God was completely,
if he is sending Satan as an agent, even okay, and I think the thought of maybe Satan has
evolved to even into the New Testament, there's an evolution of thought might be redefined
by the time the New Testament comes as the covenant people that are wicked, okay.
But nonetheless, like, because I mean, if you look in Job, I personally don't necessarily
think that Job, when he sends Satan, he's sending a man.
I don't think he sends a man to cause the whirlwind.
I don't think, I think it might be some weird creature like a Leviathan.
Okay.
Leviathan was a, this is something I listened to Dr. Price on with Old Testament because
they had a lot of folklore concepts, weird dragon concepts, things like that.
Just check out a show with him sometime.
I don't have a clue.
I'm just pointing out what they said.
And that's what I love doing or doing, but Job's Satan comes and I'm like wrapping my
head around this going, God did this.
He literally is.
And then God even shows up to the scene at the end and he's like, who are you, old man?
I am God.
I send the lightning from and the animals to eat and snowflakes from heaven.
Yeah.
And like, you're like, if you really look at it now, it's like, oh, he really is in charge
and causes the whole shenanigans to happen.
Yeah.
So Job is interesting.
There's an older version of it called the righteous sufferer you may want to look into.
And I believe that like in ancient Near Eastern culture, they would take other people's stories
and rewrite them to be their own, you know, and that's the flood narrative, the fall narrative.
Anyway, so Job is, I believe is that, and it's actually about Israel and the suffering
that they were going through.
And they were asking questions like, you know, why do good things happen to bad people and
bad to good?
They were asking those questions.
Why are we suffering?
Why are we being punished so much?
The answer to the question was, don't you know, question God, who are you to question
God?
God thinks his ways are beyond our ways.
It's like the 21st century version of, you know, answer that.
And that's Job.
To me, it's just a story, you know, and did they take it literal?
Some of them probably did.
Some of them didn't.
You know, I'm sure they were just as fluid as we are, you know, on that stuff.
Dude, boils.
I mean, like by the time the fourth guy runs in the house, he's already got boils now
starting to come on the scene.
He's lost all his kids, his wife's screaming at him, blaming him.
Just too many things all that happened once.
It does seem like what you're talking about.
And there's probably some allegory here, speaking of other things.
I mean, I would like to ask, yeah, I would like to ask the rabbi, you know,
what he, being a modern Jew, thinks of that, you know, of that story.
And how does he thinks it's really Job?
And well, it if it's if it's since he's reading in the Hebrew, if it's written
in poetry, you know, and it's written in like a so like a kind of a dance
folk work poetry, then maybe usually I don't know this for sure.
But if I if I could read Hebrew and I would go in there and I would see
that it's written in a certain poetic way, why would I take it serious?
Why not take it as poetry?
You know, because it's kind of written in that format.
So I would like to ask him if that's the case, you know, because it's
beyond me, that kind of education.
I don't know what that is yet.
And if that is the case, you know, what his interpretation is and why
I don't know more people today that that's just a story and that it's
a story about Israel's suffering.
Well, then I would like to ask him about that as Adam is Israel.
I would like to ask him about that, too.
You know, that theory and then, you know, Adam's exile from the garden
was Israel's exile from the Promised Land, you know, in 586 B.C.
It was actually about that.
So I think you're onto something here because Margaret Barker
actually deals in temple theology and what she does very fascinating.
I think if you look at Job's story that way, what you find is Job loses his
children, what happens with Israel?
Their children are scattered, right?
It's this idea.
But at the end, I always ask him, I always do, I always used to scratch
my head at the end of that story, go, how did he give back his children?
You know, like, what, what, you got new ones, right?
I suspect if you take the narrative, like, you know, this really happened
but to me, it's interesting.
What if this is prodigal son type material, if you know, the same narrative
of like, I lost my son, but I not only got my son, I got more even back.
I was blessed double and he loses his house.
Well, what's that other than the temple?
Okay.
He loses his land to foreigners.
Well, what's that other than the land of Israel?
I mean, a light bulb can go off really quick and I could be in La La
land trying to interpret this this way, or I could be accurately saying Job is
a narrative, a poetic narrative of Israel losing their temple, losing their land,
losing their sons and daughters.
Okay.
And if they're faithful, even through the suffering of being conquered at the
end of the story, when the three men who are his friends, who are, why did you
send all you must have done at the end of the story God gives after he speaks,
he gives him after he has said whatever he said and all the lightning bolts and
snowflakes and bumblebees and stuff.
Job gets double.
He literally gets twice.
And I don't know.
I think that could be a way to look at it.
Margaret Barker, is that who you said?
Yeah, if you have not read her, I'm going to tell you people who literally love her.
Dr. Price, Bart Ehrman.
These are scholars who look to her Old Testament material.
She is, and she's still a believer, but she's a liberal one.
Okay.
But you got to listen to her.
I'm telling you, dude, a lot of people have recognized her temple theology stuff.
Genesis creation goes into temple theology and is this whole temple concept.
So there are three layers to the temple and there are three layers in the Genesis creation.
There's separation, filling, and I believe it's resting is the third and resting would be the
Holy of Holies.
But the separation and filling concept is days one and one and four, two and five, three and six.
You've got the land, you've water, land and sky.
And there's like some interesting stuff that she does with all of this throughout the Old
Testament concepts and other books.
But read her if you haven't.
Who would you recommend to read if I wanted to hear research on how other ancient recent
cultures treated their mountains and temples and called them Heavens and Earth and New Heavens,
New Earth and those that kind of language for their mountains and temples.
And then I want to take that knowledge and then apply it to how, you know, Israel used there for
the same thing, their mountain and their temple.
I would ask Dr. Price that question.
I couldn't answer.
I remember years ago talking to J. Alvon when I was a covenant creationist and he equated these
ancient tablets that predate the Old Testament and he says, this is actually Adam.
So like he has a literal Adam view covenant creation.
A lot of times has a literal Adam view, not an allegorical Adam is Israel view or some type
of mythological type folklore, whatever you want to call it, view of Adam being Israel.
But Dr. Price would be the person I would ask personally because he would be able to easily
show, Hey, okay, so here's a culture.
Here's a book written by, he'll tell you a book to read, if not his own where he might
holy fable one, I'm not sure because I haven't read it yet.
He might mention this in that book, but I know for a fact he'll know people.
In fact, Dr. Carrier, if you want to know chronology, if you want to know like
when books might be written or arguments for the Old Testament concepts, even Dr. Carrier
will say ask Dr. Bob because Dr. Carrier is a Roman history guru.
And not only does he have the whole Roman era down like a champ, if you want to know anything
about Rome, just just ask Dr. Carrier.
He knows the scientist, he knows the science, he knows their liberal arts,
he knows everything that Rome like was about.
And he's very keen to that.
He's, I like to call Dr. Carrier the, like if you want to ask a question,
he can give you a black or white answer.
Like he's pretty good at not leaving it ambiguous and letting you really get as close to knowing
what he means and saying what he means as possible.
Dr. Bob, he can give you a 10 minute response and you'll finally go,
so you just gave me 10 more questions that I have, you know what I mean?
So I love it though, it's smart.
I would, I would ask him though and I can ask him tomorrow at some point off air for you.
Yeah, I want to do a series with you.
We've spoken about this before and I'm not sure if you would like to announce this here or not,
but I want to do a series with you guys asking just different scholars about
hell questions and war language, fire war language and stuff like that.
Lake of fire, where they got that, you know, like just all kinds of different things about
hell topics.
Right.
Yeah, I definitely want to hear that.
I'd like to entertain that, you know?
I could only imagine Dr. Bob's going to come in and say, well, where do I start?
Yeah, I saw him do an interview with a couple guys.
It was, he basically led it with, well, it doesn't exist in the Old Testament.
And then, you know, in the New Testament, it's kind of vague.
And so if it's true, it's like, good luck.
It was just like, if that's the case, then good luck.
I've heard him talk about Zoroastrianism and how it is a major influence that they had this idea
of hell and may had an influence possibly on the New Testament.
But I'd like to probe him more.
Just something I would be interested in doing.
I don't know for certain though, to be honest with you.
