Ladies and gentlemen, I want to fly to Princeton University in New Jersey to interview Dell
C. Allison, Jr. Professor Allison is a very deep mind as you will see in this three-part
series here we did remotely.
I want to interview him in person, high definition and make history.
Go check out our Patreon, help join us to grow that, ask me questions, but if you help
participate I'll ask your questions.
I just need to meet this goal because in October I'd like to be up there in interviewing him.
We are MythVision.
Ladies and gentlemen, I've been in an exploration for many years trying to understand, I call
it this enigma of the New Testament.
So many scholars with different expertise in various fields cannot even agree on many
of the topics that we will possibly be touching on today.
Was the tomb of Jesus just purely legend or was there really a potential empty tomb?
These are questions that apologists and skeptics alike come together and they challenge one
another on.
Well, Dr. Allison is an interesting, if I could say writer on these topics, because you tried
to ride in the middle of these two camps and say, look, both sides have points.
I want to be fair, but I'm not going to put too much weight on either side.
And so with this introduction on the resurrection of Jesus, as understood in the New Testament,
I would like to introduce Dr. Dell Allison.
Welcome to MythVision Podcast, sir.
I'm thankful you came.
You openly discussed that you have biases.
And I think that's an honorable thing to say, look, we all have them.
I admit on MythVision, I'm looking for natural explanations for things.
I think they're the most plausible oftentimes than the supernatural, which by definition
sounds more plausible just because it's super natural.
But you know, I don't want to rule out experience.
I think experience plays an important role in the human psyche and in this world that
we live in.
So I've watched your interview with Dr. Michael Lacona and I actually like him as an apologist
and I'm a skeptic myself, but I think he really is trying.
And I say this as a skeptic.
I really think he's honoring, he's doing his best as a human within the, if I could
use the word bubble, that we live in as humans, whatever it might be.
To the atheist crowds that I talk to, they might look at me and go, you better tiptoe
a certain line.
I don't want to tiptoe lines.
I want to try and work with what we have and what seems to be most plausible.
So why not talk about the resurrection with you?
And most of scholars I've talked to said, and I mean this, this is not to blow your head
up.
This is a dead serious statement from them.
You're the greatest current New Testament scholar that is really focusing on the details.
How could I not have you join me here at myth vision some, okay, and fire away, fire away.
Yeah.
Dr. If I could, you're Princeton theological seminary.
You get your PhD at Duke University from not mistaken and also your masters.
You wrote on tons of books.
One of your focuses that I really want to probe on and do further episodes for the audience
that's watching.
If you guys pay attention, I'm going to put a go fund me link down in the description.
I'd like to make a flight to come and interview Dr. Allison, seriously, I want to probe you
on these topics and read your material.
I asked the audience to do the same because it is seriously deep now to our questions.
Let's not play any more games.
From what I understand in the ancient world, there was a common concept called a pathiosis.
And a pathiosis is, it was a powerful theme that worked not only within, you know, antiquity,
the Caesars and other people who would die and then be kind of divinized if I could use
the term.
Dr. Bart DeAerman discusses this concept before we get to it.
I think it's important to know Jesus is this extremely important person in the New Testament.
Christians claim he's got in the flesh and our earliest attestation, if you will, of him
is in Paul.
Paul's the best we have if you want to be a historian and say, where is this all?
Where's the evidence coming from?
So I listened to your interview with Dr. Lacona and he's coming from the Orthodox position.
I want to ask you, is it possible because we're dealing with plausibility here.
It's history.
So you can't be certain when we have such fragmentary data.
Do you think it's possible that Paul believes Jesus' resurrection is a different body, meaning
the physical body of Jesus isn't a necessary theme in his concept of the resurrection?
That's a really loaded question.
All right.
And it's very difficult to unfold.
So what a lot of people say is that Paul does not explicitly mention the empty tomb in First
Corinthians 15, and then they will go on to say that the drift of the argument in First
Corinthians 15 is on discontinuity between the present and the future.
And then some of them will go on to say that the resurrection body is so discontinuous
with the present body that there is no continuity at all.
I read Paul differently.
I think that the empty tomb is implicit in what he has to say at the beginning of First
Corinthians 15, and I think that there is continuity amidst all the discontinuity.
So what I think I see is Paul saying that the present body is sown in dishonor, but
it is raised in glory.
It's sown in weakness, but it will be raised in power.
It is the same body.
So I read Paul to be saying the body will be radically transformed.
So it's the same body, but it's like a seed in a tree, and if you look at them, they don't
look much alike, and there is very little continuity there, but there is continuity.
And I think that's what he's talking about.
And there is a parallel to this way of thinking in a Jewish source that isn't that far from
Paul, a book known as Second Baruch, which is a Jewish pseudepigraphon.
It was written about the year 100.
And this book has an account of the future resurrection, and in it people come out of
their graves and they can recognize each other, but then they undergo a radical transformation
and they become like angels and end up even ascending on high.
So it's a physical resurrection, it's continuity, but then it's discontinuity.
That's what I see in Paul.
By the way, I should add when talking about 1 Corinthians 15, that we have to make some
guess as to what the problem is that Paul is addressing.
And unfortunately, we don't know.
And so there are all sorts of options here, but I'll tell you what I think it is.
I think the Corinthians could buy into the notion that Jesus was resurrected because
they did know stories of Greek heroes, whose bodies were missing or who had ascended and
so on.
But when it comes to everybody else, people have been sitting in their graves rotting
for years or decades or centuries, and it didn't make sense to them, I think, that anything
could happen to those bodies.
You wouldn't want to raise a body that had been sitting in the ground for three years.
It would be zombie land, right?
And so I think they're okay with Jesus because that's on the third day.
I mean, it's the same body and so on.
I think they're worried about raising up disintegrated corpses and so on.
And so that's why Paul emphasizes the discontinuity and why he emphasizes the transformation,
the radical transformation or transubstantiation, if you will, of the regular body.
So yes, there is discontinuity, but I don't think that there is complete discontinuity.
And by the way, if there is, I don't think there's anything like that in Judaism.
Actually if you compile the text on resurrection written before Paul, you will find that they're
very physical.
They're about earth and they're about dust and they are about graves.
That seems to have been the meaning of resurrection.
And if you look at the rabbis later, you get really strange stuff.
There's a story in the Babylonian Talmud where one of the rabbis say, you know, the
lutz bone or the, you know, the bone at the bottom of your spine can't destroy it.
So even if everything else is destroyed, you know, you can, you can put it on the end,
you can, you know, hammer it, it won't break, you can burn it, it won't burn up.
So even if everything else is gone, that remains the same.
So that's, that's trying to maintain some physical continuity at all costs.
And there's another passage in rabbinic sources or another story in rabbinic sources about
what happens on the latter days.
Everybody rises on the Mount of Olives.
And how do they get there?
If they're buried elsewhere, will the bones roll through the ground?
So I think Paul would be really odd if he had no idea of continuity.
I don't even know why he'd use the word resurrection anymore.
He would be abandoning the concept.
So I think for him there is continuity, but because of the background, the stress there
is on, on discontinuity.
So at least that's how I read, read Paul.
But there are other people who think that he has in mind just total discontinuity.
What you would call exchange.
I left this body and now I'm getting body number two, but I don't think that's what
he's doing myself.
Interesting.
So this begs a question to kind of probe deeper.
It's tough.
And I'm asking you as a historian to, to try and do these things.
So I might ask you, because you mentioned you have four parts of you.
You're an interesting person.
You have four different dels going on inside if I could use the term.
But you have the skeptic, you have the Christian, you have, I might ask you for opinions at
time or like to speculate and say, Hey, this is just my guess and I could be wrong.
That's okay.
I like to make guesses like that and from time to time, just because I'll probably never
read everything that you've ever read and to just get your opinion on things.
If that's okay, okay.
So then that leads to me to say, do you think it's possible that first Corinthians 15 verse
three through this creed, if you will, do you think it's possible this is interpolated?
No, I don't see any evidence for that.
Maybe you're familiar with Robert Price.
He made this argument and I think I found a 19th century, maybe Dutch New Testament scholar
who had argued the same thing, but I, I don't see any reason for it.
So how would I prove it's not, I just don't see any evidence that it is or good evidence
that it is.
Right.
Well, there's an interesting thing that you bring up and this is why I like you so much
is you're, you're like trying to say, well, this sounds visionary.
I mean, when we look at the experiences that we are seeing within not only Paul, the earliest
guy who's saying he saw the risen Christ.
It sounds like a vision experience, whatever that might mean.
We know there was vision experiences throughout the Hebrew Bible.
But when we get to the Gospels, I thought there was something interesting to take note
of because we have to consider chronology, if we're going to be accurately knowing when
these things take place, Mark coming first, Matthew and Luke and then John.
In Matthew 28, 17, 16, 17, Jesus rises from the dead.
He says, meet me in Galilee, I'll meet you there.
He appears to many and they worship him.
And then it says, and some doubted.
So there's this doubting thing that you don't get in Thomas and John where Thomas is touching
the Lord.
Right.
And he's like, my Lord, my God, like I've said this on my, on my channel, I don't know
this.
I just tried to critique me because I said, look, if Jesus appeared to me and said, all
right, Phil touch, like I would probably believe that I would be like, okay, this is enough
evidence that I need.
But I also would wonder, are my faculties playing tricks on me?
This was the question I had in my head.
So Dr. Allison, my question is, how could someone doubt if this is the physical, true, actual
resurrected Jesus, like showing up?
Or if it's just a vision, that would make more sense why someone got, hold on, what was
I seeing?
I don't know.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Okay.
So I'm not, I'm uncomfortable with just a vision because I think that presupposes a metaphysical
point of view.
But I argue in the book that I think these stories in the gospels do go back to visionary
experiences.
All right.
So I think there is a materialization and a mythology myth mythologization.
If you look at the phenomenology of visionary experience, it's really strange because there
are quite a few modern accounts.
And I've cited six or seven of them in the book, quoted them at length because they're
so interesting of people who said, well, I ran into my dead husband or to my dead wife
or to my dead son.
And my dead son actually picked me up and he hugged me and he was warm and it was just
like he was really there.
I found one woman who said, it was just like the disciples in Jesus.
I could touch him.
So whatever the phenomenology there or the metaphysical truth there, people do say, people
that you would say, that I would say are having visions, that it wasn't a visionary-like experience,
that there was something a lot more going on, which makes all this complicated.
But my view is that the eating business in John and Luke and the touching business in
John and Luke, I think those must be later additions to the tradition.
So there is some truth to the idea that Paul represents earlier tradition to some extent
and the Gospels represent later tradition to some extent.
John's Gospel and the letters, first and second, they're John that are associated with the
Gospel, they do seem to have something like dosatism or a proto-dosatism in mind.
That is, there are people who think Jesus was a spirit or wasn't really in flesh and
so on.
That might be one motive behind these stories of eating and touching.
But there's also the more simpler explanation, there's probably some truth here too, maybe
more truth, that one of the objections to stories of the post-resurrection of Jesus
would be that they saw a ghost, right?
And so one way of getting around that would be coming up with a story where people touched
him, because in popular lore at least, as opposed to reality, in popular lore people
can't touch ghosts, right, and ghosts don't eat and so on.
Although, if I recall rightly, Elizabeth, what's her name, I'm trying to remember the
woman who wrote on death and dying, Elizabeth Kubler Ross, I don't know if you're familiar
with that name.
She was very famous in the 1970s.
She had a visionary experience where she claimed as a dead person came and ate a sandwich.
So, and by the way, I don't think she was nuts, so I don't know what was going on.
But once the parallels are drawn, I still think this stuff is later, but you have to
add a qualification here.
So sometimes people will say, well, Paul represents an ethereal spiritual understanding
and resurrection, and the Gospels with the empty tomb and the eating and touching, they're
just very, very materialistic.
So we have two radically different points of view, and we explain it through apologetics
and evolutionary history.
But if you read the Gospel accounts closely, they are weird.
They really are.
So if you look at Matthew, an angel comes down, and then an earthquake rolls the stone away,
and then the tomb is empty.
That means Jesus is gone.
He's exited before the stone has left the mouth of the cave, which means what?
Well, he's either just popped out of this existence into some other, or he walked through
the wall.
He doesn't, and you and I can't do that, normal bodies can't do that.
It's like John 20.
So you may have, come on, touch me, but he pops in out of nowhere.
He doesn't walk through the door.
He's just there.
So that's very strange.
And again, that is not zombie land.
That is not a body like you have or like I have.
And it goes back to what you said about doubt.
So you do have this weird motif of doubt, and it's not just in Matthew 28, right?
It's in the Emmaus Rhodes story.
It's in Mary Magdalene at the tomb in John 20.
It's behind the story of Thomas, which I think is probably a concretization of the motif
of doubt that's there from the beginning.
And it's also in Lazarus Parable, where he says, send back men, send Lazarus back from
the dead, I think there's something there to try and say, look, I feel like there's
a polemic there to try and like get people to believe.
Oh, well, I wouldn't say, I would say apologetic.
But I would say that the end of Luke's parable is probably influenced by the story of the
risen Jesus.
So I'm going to go along with that, right?
Anyway, my point is that Mary Magdalene sees Jesus and she doesn't know who he is.
Now, that's really strange.
But the same thing in the story of the Emmaus Road.
So this motif of doubt and not recognizing somebody, this also seems to point in a strange
direction here.
So I guess what I would say is even though there's some truth to this contrast between
Paul and the Gospels, you can overdraw it because the Gospels already have really strange
stories which tell you this is not a normal body.
Something's happened to it.
By the way, I should add as a footnote to this discussion that I think we need to be
real careful here and New Testament scholars aren't because when it comes to the resurrection,
one of the things some people do is they say, well, this is in Paul, but it's not in the
Gospels and therefore it's late.
So there's no Joseph of Arimathea, for example, in Paul, in 1 Corinthians 15, but it's in
the Gospels, so it must be a later invention and so on.
But the truth is when it comes to almost everything in the Jesus tradition, Paul is always inferior.
He doesn't say anything about Jesus being a healer, he doesn't say anything about Jesus
being an exorcist, he doesn't say anything about Pontius Pilate, he doesn't say anything
about Jesus uttering parables.
That is almost at every point Paul is an inferior witness to what I take to be the historical
Jesus than the Gospels are.
So I'm really uneasy with sort of circling 1 Corinthians 15 and say, well, this is the
one place where Paul has everything and the Gospels are all wrong and late.
That actually goes against the tendency everywhere else, which is Paul just has these fleeting
glimpses or just says, you know, might allude to a saying, but he just doesn't do the details
of Jesus's life.
And you always have to remember that when you're doing this subject, I think.
I think you're right because when, and there's always scholars who take different takes like
my good friend, Dr. Robert Price, right?
I'm friends with everybody, by the way, I don't care what your positions are.
You guys are far smarter than me in many ways and read way more sources.
I look at you guys as someone I can learn from.
But for example, this is a way that he'll explain a tradition of John the Baptist and
say, look, this is a completely different movement, but the way to bring both movements
together is to incorporate the narrative of John the Baptist and have kind of him be related
to him and things like that.
Whereas someone like you or other scholars would say, no, I don't think it needs to be
that.
I don't think you need to introduce that kind of position.
You would maybe think it's somewhat ad hoc and you'd say, no.
There's a real John the Baptist movement and Jesus may play a part in this John the Baptist
movement as the gospels portray.
I think that also what I like the way you said is also while you're trying to factor
in the evidence and say, let's not close off and start, Paul has the right truth, everything
else is legend.
You're also though saying, we've got to be careful reading the gospels as well because
there is legend there.
There is this, if I could use the term mythologizing going on and to know what is actually the
case, that's complex.
It's a difficult task.
Yes.
So I'm one who thinks that Mark is the earliest gospel.
Now I may be wrong, but I think that's the case.
I also spent years and years working on the gospel of Matthew.
So what I was always doing was setting Matthew beside Mark and time after time, I thought
Matthew was elaborating or being apologetical or introducing later stories that didn't
have any grounding in history.
So yeah, I'm a historian and some things are just obvious to me and it's obvious that
there are legends in the gospels.
So I made it easy for myself, I think, but I wanted to do this because it's a story about
the resurrection in Matthew 27, when Jesus dies, sun goes dark and the earthquakes and
tombs are opened and people come out of tombs and go into Jerusalem and talk to people.
And I made the case that this is not historical.
And then what I tried to do was argue that Matthew thought it was historical.
So actually, Mike Lacona agrees with me this didn't happen and many evangelical scholars
admit this just, this isn't very likely, this goes beyond the bounds of reason here.
But then they go on and say, but Matthew didn't intend it to be read literally anyway.
It's theological dressing, it makes a theological statement and so on.
I just don't see so.
By the way, in making this argument, there isn't anybody in the history of the church
who thinks this until modern times and then it becomes convenient.
So Mike and I disagree about this, but my point in the chapter was to say, look, we
already in the New Testament itself have a passage that undoubtedly, or as close to
that as you can get, is fiction and it's about resurrection and it's actually about empty
tombs outside Jerusalem.
So yeah, they have to keep this in mind.
And by the way, all this does is make everything more difficult because it means you have to
sift the sources.
What I'm always doing, and I'm in an odd place.
A lot of people think I'm way too conservative, a lot of people think I'm way too liberal.
When I approach a passage, what I'm usually asking is not, did this actually happen as
it's presented here?
My question is when I'm doing history is, does this contain memory?
Is there some memory of a real event behind this?
And I'm conservative, I guess, because I often think there is.
But I don't know that I would ever equate a text with what happened.
I'm always looking for the memory that's in it.
All these texts are rhetorical and theological and have their own bias and agendas and the
rest of it.
So if you're playing historian, you got to take all that into account, which makes this
task well my impossible.
Ladies and gentlemen, part one, check out part two to the resurrection.
We're going to discuss here shortly.
Thank you, Dr. Allison.
Let's do part two.
