Ladies and gentlemen, did the Apostle Paul tell women to shut up in church?
Did he tell them that they must keep silent?
Or did later church fathers add this into the text and put this in the mouth of Paul?
Could there be a little bit of both going on, but maybe we just haven't understood the guy?
Well, stay tuned. You'll be talking to a PhD today who has an opinion on this. We take a deep dive.
We are MythVision. Welcome back to MythVision Podcast. I'm your host, Derek Lambert. Ladies and gentlemen, Dr. Joseph A.P. Wilson is joining us today.
We're gonna talk about Paul, but before we do, you've never met the gentleman.
So can you tell us a little bit about yourself?
What are your specialties, if you will, and then we'll get right into Paul.
Thank you very much. I am not a specialist in the study of Paul.
I am an anthropologist and I'm a religion scholar, and I have a number of different areas that I've worked in over the years.
I have too many degrees and too many jobs, but this area of research of mine has come back into my life after a long time.
When I was back in the days when I was an undergraduate at Kent State, my mentor was David W. O'Dell Scott, who is still at Kent State today.
He's a great guy and he is the person who, one of the modern proponents of what we call the quotation-reputation hypothesis pertaining to the really infamously misogynistic passage in 1st Corinthians, chapter 14.
And so I have recently noticed the debate cropping back up into the literature and I've decided to work on a publication in progress, which I won't talk too much about the details of.
But I'm here with you today to talk about sort of my ongoing research on this problem of why Paul sounds like he's saying something incredibly sexist.
When most critical scholars believe that Paul was on the other side of that, the debate about women's roles in the early church, because the female ordination is not a topic that just came up like yesterday.
Right.
It's been something that's been argued about since the very beginning within Christianity.
And the earliest Christian texts we have show that there was a hot debate over whether women should be allowed to play a major role in the leadership of early Christianity.
And so my position in the position of most critical scholars of Paul is that Paul was firmly on the yes, women are leaders in the church.
He was on that side.
But then among the those scholars, there is a debate about the text itself.
Is the text, the original, we're talking about to clarify for your audience, there are about half the epistles of Paul are recognized to be actually Paul's writing.
The other half are often regarded as a Deutero Pauline or like written in his name by later Christians who are trying to like usurp his authority, take Paul's authority and use it as a way of pushing their agenda, right, in the Christian church.
So if you limit your discussion to just what we everyone agrees Paul actually wrote, then there's a debate about to what extent that has been modified.
Right, by later editors, how have editors carved it up and tried to make it, make it say something about women, right, versus, versus those people who say, Oh, it might be misinterpreted.
And so I come down on the misinterpretation line.
I say that people are misreading the passage in First Corinthians.
If you stick to the canonical text and read it correctly, then you recognize it as supporting Paul's egalitarianism, his belief that women should be leaders and not supporting the opposite side that women are supposed to sit down and shut up.
Yes.
So there's that famous passage where it's like women should not speak in the church.
Right.
Now then, if you could take us through that just briefly as we lead into where really you're going to take an elbow in the road a little bit compared to other scholarship.
Tell us what that argument is for our audience.
Most of the people have heard about it, but maybe this recap from you might help refresh their memory.
All right.
So I will read for you the passage itself, First Corinthians 14 verses 34 and 35.
We're going to use the revised standard version.
The women should keep silent in the churches, for they are not permitted to speak, but should be subordinate, even as the law says.
If there is anything they desire to know, let them ask their husbands at home for it is shameful for a woman to speak in church.
That's the citation.
People who are against female ordination can just cite that, throw it out there, but they have to chop it out.
They have to cut it out of the path, the surrounding text and throw it at you in isolation.
Because if they read a good translation of the next passage, verse 36 in Greek, it is pause.
What?
Did the word of God originate with you?
Or are you the only ones it has reached?
And the pronouns in Greek are gendered.
So you know that verses 34 and 35 are addressing women, but the pronouns in verse 36 are masculine.
The plural pronoun in verse 36 is a masculine plural pronoun.
So when you read it in the original Greek, the audience changes.
It's now, hold on, now, now, hold on.
Complementarians, traditionalists and fundamentalists will say, well, just like in English, Greek masculine can be neutral.
Right, right.
So in other words, they're saying, they're still criticizing women.
Okay, I suppose you could, but you, there are also feminine pronouns.
But the context itself is what it's saying.
It's like, are you the only ones who've actually had the word of God reach you?
Yeah, the text now has expanded the pronoun reference to include men.
Right.
And in Greek, that means there's at least one man in that audience now.
Whereas before, in English, when we use gender neutral pronouns in English, we, there is, you can assume nothing about the gender of the audience.
You could use gender neutral pronouns to refer to entirely female audience, entirely male audience, whatever.
There's no indication.
Yeah.
In the Greek, even today, we'll say things sometimes like, I'll go, how are you doing guys?
And I'm talking to a group of girls.
And we just say things like that.
Right.
And that's sort of the, that's sort of the argument that people who say that verse 36, so the traditional complementarian reading is that verse 30, verse 36 is chastising the Corinthians for lenience and allowing their women to speak.
But it's ungrammatical.
It doesn't work.
So there's a, there's a, there's something called a Heta.
It's a little tiny particle.
It's a disjunctive particle of separation.
It occurs in that verse 36 passage twice.
And it's the what or construction.
Like the what, is this it or is that it?
And elsewhere in the same letter, Paul uses that when he's chastising the Corinthians for their errors.
But the question is, is he talking to the men who are speaking in the previous passage, or is he talking to the, about the women who are, who are not shutting up like they're supposed to.
That it's, it requires that you twist the, the grammar to get it to mean the conventional understanding.
So how did the historical church, how did the ancient church make it so that it was clear that the women were actually supposed to shut up?
Because how, we have evidence that the early church fathers didn't read it that way.
Right.
How do we know this?
Cause well, first of all, there's no evidence of any manuscripts missing this package passage.
So some people say that the entire thing is an interpolation.
Some people say that, that forgery that are the editors copying some other stuff attributed to Paul, like the passage in First Timothy.
There's a parallel passage in First Timothy, which very few people would regard as really Paul.
They would say that that's a forgery written in Paul's name.
But the passage in First Timothy, some people say that that has been retrojected back into this to Corinthians.
So like somebody had a manuscript of First Timothy was inspired by the presence of this similar passage in that manuscript and then chunked it in there to make Paul say these things because it seems kind of out of place.
So that's a very common view among my fellow scholars who are egalitarian Paulists, who believe that Paul supported women's ordination.
Right.
And that's one way to answer it.
I do want to mention, before you get into that, just to make the point, what modern Christians are doing with this passage, and the whole point is to get women to shut up, I think is the actual problem of what Paul's trying to address in the Corinthians church.
So for anyone who's watching, Paul's trying to correct, according to what Joseph's saying here, he's trying to say, no, don't tell them to shut up.
Do you think you're the only ones who got the word of God?
No, the women did too.
So they have the right, you know, like he's defending women in this case.
I just want to make that very clear.
And that is a very defensible reading of the plain text of the earliest manuscripts of the Greek.
Now, what the problem is, is when you translate it into old Latin, one of the earliest old Latin traditions, and it's not only in old Latin, there's also old Syriac and there's Greek versions of this too.
But in the Western manuscript tradition, they start to rearrange the verses.
And so, and there's a major textual displacement that's very much widespread in all of the early Western manuscripts, where they take verses, they take verses 34 and 35, and they move them to the very end of the epistle.
So if you read some of the oldest Western copies, which are written typically in Latin or in bilingual, they tend to have sheltered these passages, these misogynistic passages are moved so that they don't get refuted by verse 36.
So verse 36 is now read immediately following verse 33b, right?
Or something like that.
So it doesn't, right?
So by, and it's a large textual displacement of this.
And that is the version of the text that was read by the doctors of the early church who read it in conjunction with 1st Timothy chapter.
What is it?
Is it 215?
Forgive me, I'm reading off the top of my head.
You know, I don't have the verses in front of me.
But the passage, which I think is 1st Timothy 2.15 around there, where he says something similar.
There it's women need to listen to their husbands.
Right.
But the grammar, the structure is whoever the guy we call the pastor, who's the forger who wrote 1st Timothy and called it a piece of Paul's own writing, is copying, is imitating.
This passage in a slightly different context.
And so then the late around the 3rd, 4th, 2nd, 3rd, 4th century, you start to get among those Roman Christians, because remember, Roman law was women had to shut up in public assemblies.
The word church just means assembly.
It means like a gathering place.
Like where there's a bunch of men talking, women aren't allowed to talk.
That is ancient Hellenistic custom.
That is Roman law going back to Aristotle pretty much.
I mean, you have long tradition of women not being allowed to speak in public.
So when these guys, these Corinthians say women are as the law says, women are not allowed to speak in church, they're not actually speaking about Jewish law.
Right, right.
They're talking about Roman law.
These are Gentile converts in a Roman Greek colony in Corinth.
In other words, the leaders are a few Jewish Christians.
The Jews among them are like the elites.
They're like a handful of Jews like Priscilla, who's a woman, right?
They're these these people that are Paul's people who are among their sort of like teachers.
But the actual congregation is mostly Greco-Roman, not ethnically Jewish.
So when they say, even as the law says, they're probably referring to Greek and Roman customs that are women aren't allowed to speak in public assemblies.
And so what happens when as the church gets as the Christianity grows among the Romans and the Greeks, they have to kind of make it conform to sort of the legalistic norms of the society at large society at large.
So you can see the pastoral forgery that is 1st Timothy is one example.
Now, people debate about other the other Pseudo Pauline epistles or whatever the other Pseudo Pauline.
I think they're written by different authors.
They're not all the same author, even the second epistle to Timothy, whether or not, you know, it's a forgery.
It doesn't matter to me so much because it's not written with the same agenda as 1st Timothy.
I see the author of 1st Timothy and Titus is clearly a misogynist, somebody who is, you know, both of those epistles are about are clear and unambiguous and saying women are not eligible to be teachers of men.
Well, right.
So this gets us in the hot water real fast because what this does and I'm I'm going to try and I love your energy, by the way, you really do bring a very good rhetoric while you're communicating this.
So this has been fun already.
One of the amazing things that comes to mind is when I had that conversation with him, David Litwai, and he has this wonderful book, The Evil Creator, where he starts to talk about Marcianism and the Marcianites.
And these guys were also practicing Pauline tradition and he had women with Pauline traditions or they had women churches.
So please tell us what kind of connection.
So let's get some Marcian in here or Marcian, depending on your pronunciation.
But he so let me be clear here.
This issue about female ordination is not strictly Orthodox versus Heretical.
Right.
Well, what it's very easy to say.
Well, the the the heretics, the people who were outside the church supported women's rights while the Orthodox, the people inside their official church rejected them.
The fact is, is just as today, this issue crosscut conservative and liberal Orthodox and Heretical traditions.
That is, there were people on both sides of this argument in both churches.
But the but the issue of Marcian's interpretation is important because it proves that there was an early interpretation of First Corinthians that included that passage in the canonical location that did not interpret it as meaning women couldn't actually speak.
Right.
In other words, Marcian's text of First Corinthians is virtually identical to the to the canonical one.
Right.
He didn't have his version of First Corinthians wasn't majorly different.
It was different, maybe in a couple little areas.
And we only know that because it's been quoted by his enemies.
And why were they quoting them?
They when when people like Tertullian of Carthage, who was the person who advanced the women need to shut up view first and foremost, when he cited Marcian, he said, look, your own text argues against you, dude.
He's like, he's like, you say this is scripture, but it's telling you the opposite of what you think it means.
What's he doing?
He's reading it his way.
But the point is the fact that it was written the same way for the Marcianites means that they must have had a different way of reading it.
We don't have any direct evidence of what I call the quotation, refutation hypothesis being the normative reading in the first three centuries of the church.
We don't have like a church father citing this passage and saying, look, Paul is totally owning those dudes.
Nobody cites it.
Do you know why they don't cite it?
Because it was inconsequential, because it was like it was like a settled dispute.
So my my opinion is the reason why it didn't get to anyone's notice is because nobody like it was like an aside.
It was like, oh, here's this little argument and it's addressed.
But how do we know we know that the earliest texts had it in the canonical location?
And we know that the early fathers cited the epistle in general as evidence of female prophetic authority.
So like when I think it's Clement of Alexandria, I'm pretty sure.
No, no, not Clement of Alexandria.
Ironious.
Yeah, Clement of Alexandria is an egalitarian.
He believes that women have the right to speak in church and he cites first Corinthians.
Other early church fathers cite first Corinthians and do not support the idea that women aren't allowed to talk.
Right.
But Irenaeus actually says women are allowed to speak at church.
And one of his I don't have the citation right in front of me.
Right.
But you know, in other words, there are orthodox theologians of the first several centuries who endorse the idea that women are allowed to talk and that also cite first Corinthians in their writings, meaning they are aware of the text and they don't read it.
To mean the opposite of what?
Oh, I get it.
No, yeah, I definitely do.
I hope I'm around the time that the Western manuscript tradition starts.
It's right when the first old Latin rearrangements of the text where they start with it, where somebody moves that passage to the end of the epistle to shelter it from the criticism of verse 36.
That's the first citation of the passage as an endorsement of female silence and subordination.
And it's not done by itself, but it's done in conjunction with Second Timothy.
So like that makes you go.
Yeah, this makes you wonder what church father, which who, you know, is like pin the tail on the donkey at this point.
Who did it?
Who done it?
Who wrote these other epistles that are obvious?
I suspect it's an anonymous person.
That we know the first.
We know Tertullian is the first one who makes it explicit, right?
But he isn't beginning from nothing.
Tertullian of Carthage is.
Irenaeus seems like a potential candidate is my.
Well, yeah, but Irenaeus and other.
So hold on.
The early Orthodox tradition had women leadership.
How do we know this?
We know this.
We know this not from text because we think that a lot.
One of my colleagues, Allie Coutus, she has done amazing work with iconography and
archaeology, where she has found liturgical iconography from the early churches, shows
that women were in leadership positions in the official church, not just in the.
Not just Nostics or Marcy and I, not just that that that female leadership was widespread
among Christians in general for centuries and that they didn't stop being leaders.
Like suddenly, like all of a sudden a rule gets passed and they're all like defrocked.
No, it was a gradual like choking out.
So in other words, it was over centuries that women's leadership is in a long slow decline.
And by the late medieval early modern period, it's gone.
Right.
And then people look back and they project that male, that male only view of late of
modern Christianity.
They project that in their imaginations back onto the early church.
But we can see from liturgical iconography, we can see women at the altar.
We can see them holding Eucharistic paraphernalia.
Right.
We can see women depicted in leadership positions.
So yes, there is definitely a concerted effort to change that, that begins early, but
it isn't the majority.
Right.
It isn't like it isn't like by fiat, isn't like some authoritarian leader comes in and
declares that women aren't allowed to be leaders anymore.
It's more like an organic and messy process where the rise of male supremacists is one
thing that happens, that begins to happen.
And it just so happens that because of the way we privilege the texts that agree with our views.
Mm hmm.
Right.
What most authors texts don't survive.
Right.
Most people, most writings are gone.
Right.
The ones that are preserved are the ones that later people decided were important.
So if there was any early stuff that was clearly indicative of supporting women and not
misogynistic or male supremacy, it doesn't have to get suppressed.
It just doesn't, it doesn't even have to be.
It just has to not be copied.
Copy down exactly.
That's my point.
So it's like, ah, it's irrelevant.
And it's just by that, they have in de facto, you know, erased it from history in a way,
in a way, but we have elements to know it was there.
We have clear indications as you're pointing out.
And it's just amazing how these people are all looking at the same letters and they're
coming away with different views.
Part of that is Paul's fault.
Paul is really challenging to read.
And Paul is so subtle and sarcastic, and it's not the only place.
There's actually lots of places in the authentic epistles of Paul where you can
read it two different ways.
There's lots of places where you could say, oh, I can see this or I can see this
because he's, he's too smart for his own good.
And he's constantly, he's constantly throwing people for a loop.
And so there's quite a, there's a few places in his authentic epistles where you
can say, is he taking, is he, is he, is he kind of going, eh, you know, nudge,
nudge, wink, wink, or is he saying what he really, you know, is it a clear,
straightforward statement of doctrine, or is he actually mocking his opponents?
This is not the only time this happens.
So, and one of the things that, one of the things that makes the fake Paul like
First Timothy so clear is that it's unambiguous, right?
The author of First Timothy is saying, I'm too, this is too confusing.
Let's make Paul say that it's all clear and easy to understand that way.
No, there won't be any more arguing over what Paul is actually saying here.
Instead, we'll have an official, like endorsed, like stamp of approval on it.
But this, this makes me think of like scholarship with Paul within Judaism
and Paul without, it's exactly why there's a problem here.
Right.
And that, and, and let's go back.
Cause I, some people, like Mars, Mars, the, the later Marcianites were
definitely anti-Judaic in a lot of ways, but the emergence of that sort
of radical Paulanism is gradually out of a stream of Judaism.
So I, I heard in your interview with Dr.
Um, the Western Australia University guy, the evil creator guy.
Oh yeah.
In David Lytwell.
Yeah.
Yeah.
He, he, you and he kind of danced around this issue was, was Paul himself more
like a Marcianite or more like a Jewish Christian?
I would say he was a little, that he was on the cusp between both.
He's coming out of Jewish Christianity where they're saying that, um, the Jewish
Christian position is that, you know, that Jewish law is important for salvation.
Therefore, Gentiles are excluded.
He's not actually denying the importance of the Jewish law for the Jews.
Right.
What is the new kind of new vision of Paul as a Jew is that he is extending
grace to Gentiles.
Right.
He's you.
So in other words, his big tent doesn't eliminate Jewish Christianity.
His big tent is saying, well, because you idolatrous Gentiles are messed up.
You can't, the law is going to destroy you.
Right.
The law protects Jews because Jews aren't idolaters.
Jews follow, Jews are, are, um, God's chosen people and are under the
protection of the law, but the same law that protects Jews destroys Gentiles.
See, this is, you have a face of Jesus.
So see what I'm saying?
So, oh yeah, this gets into some stuff though.
Later Marcianites take him into a non-Jewish direction.
But by following his letters, very like dogmatically.
But the fact is, is that Paul was kind of trying to have his cake and eat it too.
He was, that's what I was going to say.
It's tough to pin him down because he sounds like in some of Paul's actual
letters, he's like, I'm done with the Jews.
They're not listening.
They don't get it.
You know, he was complaining about being persecuted by everybody.
Right.
He's being persecuted by Gentiles, by Romans, by Jews.
So, you know, so it's tough.
It's tough though.
It's, it's not an easy.
Yeah.
He's also citing his own Pharisee training as being his bad, his badge of honor.
I mean, why is he, why is he an authority?
Why, why should you trust what he says?
Cause he studied with these people themselves.
You know, he's an expert on the Torah, right?
You know what I mean?
It's not like he's saying, my expertise doesn't matter.
He's not, you know what I mean?
His, he's talking about the same God.
Right.
He's just, you see what I'm saying?
So, you're right.
I mean, it's more social.
And I mean, look at the way, the way, I mean, acts is written by somebody who was
traditionally thought of as one of Paul's disciples, but acts is obviously a
later thing.
Yeah.
Acts portrays the early Christians closely aligned with the Pharisees.
Yeah.
Right.
Because the Pharisees are the ones who come when the Saudis are attacking Christians,
the Pharisees who are Jews, not Christians, are defending them.
And Paul is the only self identified Pharisee in the, in at that stage in history.
Right.
He is like the first person on record to come to come on, to write in his own hand
and say, I am a Pharisee by training.
Right.
So in other words, really, when you want to study the early Pharisees, who do you look
at?
You look at Paul, he's, he's the, he's the primary, one of the primary sources for
that.
So the point is, is the, what were the Pharisees?
The Pharisees believed in resurrection of the dead.
So they were like the Christians in a lot of sense.
They didn't necessarily believe that Jesus was the Messiah.
So that was the why Matthew had such a hard time with Pharisees.
But the fact is that the Pharisees were in most ways, cosmopolitan, open-minded.
They didn't, they were not exactly, you know, fundamentalists.
So we'll put it that way.
Right.
The Sadducees were kind of your fundamentalist in a sense of like, but we're sticking to
this, even though they didn't believe in resurrection.
They were very old school, you know, what we would call.
They had, they had, they had a more narrower canon that was like based on the
Torah, they were Torah purists.
Yeah.
So, but I don't want to get it.
I get it.
This is just fun.
Yeah, I get it.
I don't want to go off too much on things that I am not really well versed in, but I,
let's just say that I don't feel the need to pigeonhole Paul as being more or less Jewish.
He's clearly, because at the time that he's doing these, that he's debating about
this stuff with other believers in his subsect, he is things are very much in flux.
And remember, we also sometimes think what we project post temple Judaism back
onto Paul, this is before the temple was destroyed.
This was before the Talmud was written down, right?
And all those Jewish oral laws had yet to come into existence as a, as the
formalized documents that we know.
And so when we try to judge Paul against the, the ideology of later Jews, doesn't
really work.
It's, it's anachronistic because those people were also trying to get by in a
Roman world, right?
Yeah, the entire formation of rabbinical Judaism.
On the one hand, it goes back to, to Hebrew and to traditionalist, traditionalist
understandings in some ways.
On the other hand, it's very pro-Roman, right?
The early, the early rabbis were like, we, we're, we're good citizens.
We're not going to rock the boat.
So in many ways, you know what I mean?
I, I'm just saying that you can't, that understanding apocalyptic Judaism requires
that you throw out a lot of assumptions about that, that we have baked into us from
the last 1800 years of history of Christianity and, and Judaism is separate
religions at the time Paul was writing, there wasn't, the word Christian didn't
exist, right?
That was, that, that appears in like Luke, in, in Luke acts, right?
You don't, Paul didn't say, I am a Christian, you are Jews.
He was talking to God fearing Gentiles and trying to extend to them the, um, the
grace of the God that he believed in, which came from his, you know, in other
words, some people question whether even Paul actually converted to anything.
Right?
Is he, does he actually convert?
Or is he just kind of changing his orientation within Judaism at a time
before, um, yeah, anyway.
So I'm, yeah, no, this is interesting.
No, it's okay.
I love it.
So, okay.
Final words.
And then I want our audience to obviously check you out, any of your stuff that you
might have, uh, if you've got any links, we could put it down in the description.
Okay.
So, um, I, uh, I can, but the, unfortunately.
This stuff that I'm talking to you with about has, has, I have yet to publish it.
So why don't I withhold those links for now at some point when I get like a better
package that's because, because I could give you links.
Yeah, yeah.
It wouldn't be relevant because I've, I've done too many other things.
So this is like I said, this is something that I'm getting into recently.
Okay.
And so I want to be, um, once I get the, the article that this, uh, talk is based
on published and it will be published.
I'm hopefully where I've, uh, first attempted to publish it, but if not, then
somewhere, and I will provide you with all that, uh, do course.
And I can certainly give you my faculty webpage, but that's not, you know,
that's, that's just pretty bare bones.
Yeah.
No, no, no.
I totally, totally whenever you're ready, give it to me.
I'll let the audience know.
I'm sure a lot of people watching this are enjoying it.
And there's so many questions I'd have.
I think we should do more here in the future, just to hang out, discussion,
speculate together a little too.
I have no problem doing that.
I know academics don't really like to do that, uh, without, they don't
like speculating so much, but to be honest with you, I feel like at the end of the
day, it is oftentimes a guessing game.
And we just don't have sufficient evidence, uh, to go, oh, we know that
this is what it is sometimes.
I'm not always, but, and when it is that, you know, playing that little rabbit
trial, okay, if this, then what draws the conclusions based on that?
So if that is the case, where can that lead us?
And having fun doing that, it sounds like you've done quite a bit of that in
your own, you know, just thinking through these things.
So I really enjoyed this.
Yeah.
And I'm, and I think that dialogue between people who disagree is often more
productive than dialogue with other people who think like you.
So I am, I'm definitely, uh, that's why, uh, why I respected your podcast enough
to reach out to you in this case is because I see you talking with people
with really, really different ideas from each other in a way that I think is
really cool.
And I hope that you, I wish you a lot of success in, in your work.
Well, thank you.
It's going to continue to happen.
People want to see a debate all the time.
And I'm like, hold on, hold on, I do host debates.
Don't get me wrong.
They're usually very professional, but at the end of the day, I feel like
debates are like football teams.
You go into the, to the game, rooting your side on.
You're looking for your side to win.
You're not really looking at this going, here's raw data from two different
sides, just digest, and it's really for entertainment more than it is for
academic research and pursuit.
And for me, I'm more interested in actual pursuit because I don't know.
That's just me.
I've been into the whole watching debates in the past.
And I remember picking my side as a Christian, a fundamentalist Christian.
And then later on, the same guy I used to think was my enemy.
And I didn't like, I actually heard what he was actually saying.
I guess you could say, I actually listened to what he said.
And I was able to take it in and go, whoa, that's actually far better than
what I was used to.
I used to do the other guy had it.
And I figured out how to kind of balance some of these things.
I think where a lot of people are coming from oftentimes is genuine and
it's sincere, but at the same time, the argumentation at the end of the day
still collapsed.
But anyway, we're rabbiting off.
I really hope that you'll come back.
Let's do this again.
Let's talk deeper into Paul and different ideas you might have.
And yeah, thank you.
Yeah.
And I sort of scratched the surface and a number of the deeper issues we have yet
to get to.
And I would love to have another opportunity maybe after the publication.
We'll schedule something then.
Absolutely.
That sounds good.
And where I can find the things we missed.
Let's do it.
Thank you so much.
Sure.
And I will continue to follow your podcast.
Thank you.
Thank you.
All right.
Hold on one second.
And ladies and gentlemen, don't forget we are myth vision.
