Okay, it looks like we're live on MythVision Podcast. Get ready to witness the oldest
Bible known to mankind in the world. Our upcoming stream will zoom in so close, so close, you'll
feel like you're touching the scroll. But wait, should we even call this the Bible, honestly?
Is it called the Bible at this time, or is it just an out-of-place term for the period?
Are we anachronistically pushing this back onto this ancient scroll where these pen-scribes
wrote these pieces of literature? And all of these mysteries in this episode are going
to be uncovered as we delve deeper into the topic with the one and only Dead Sea Scrolls
scholar, Kip Davis. So I hope that you stay tuned and wait to see what we reveal to you,
because you're going to see some things you've probably never noticed in your entire life.
Back in Washington, Kip Davis is getting his first look at a final prized fragment in the
museum of the Bible's collection. This is a fragment that contains text from Genesis chapter 32,
and it's supposedly from the first century BC or the first century CE.
So this is a fragment from the first century CE, and it's supposedly from the first century
CE, and it's supposedly from the first century CE, and it's supposedly from the first century
CE, and it's supposedly from the first century CE, and it's supposedly from the first century
CE, and it's supposedly from the first century CE, and it's supposedly from the first century
CE, and it's supposedly from the first century CE, and it's supposedly from the first century CE,
and it's supposedly from the first century CE, and it's supposedly from the first century CE,
and it's supposedly from the first century CE, and it's supposedly from the first century CE,
Welcome to Mythvision, Dr. Kip Davis. Welcome back, my friend. Hey man, it's good to be here.
it's always a great time having you on here. We're gonna learn something new today. That's for sure
We're gonna be focusing on the earliest earliest. Yeah, we are
It's gonna be good. Yeah, it sure is
Absolutely. So tell us you've got a YouTube channel where you educate the world and bring this inside to the public
One viewer at a time one viewer one subscriber
You can play a special part the viewer by subscribing to dr. Kip Davis liking his content dropping a comment
So the algorithm gods pay attention and help out dr. Kip. Let's get him up to 10k. There's no reason
He's not not at 10,000 subscribers right now. I also want to highlight conspiracy
It is it is 100% the cabal is against you
Later my dear friend Derek Bennett from a theologica is interviewing none other than dr. Kill
Which is the pseudonym for dr. Kip? I hope everybody will go
I'm gonna post this or ask that mods throughout this live stream will post this so people know about this upcoming stream
They're gonna go into God's but teases teases. What are you guys doing?
We're doing different stuff from what we're doing here today
So it's important that people know that
We're gonna talk about God's body. We're gonna talk about
Deuteronomy 32
We're probably gonna talk about
You know some of the
The trouble that I got in and the and the controversy
That surrounded me and the and the Dead Sea Scrolls forgeries from from the Museum of the Bible, you know normal stuff
How much scowly drama so subscribe to dr. Kill and subscribe to a theologica because we're growing a massive community
Educating you he also
Sorry, I was just going to say people should know because I'm looking at a lot of the comments in the in the chat
So I just got back from from seeing Yahweh's visage
Uh, which is why my face glows like the Sun. It makes sense. I'm convinced. I was a little terrified
I didn't want to show my fear though because I probably showed you his ass
Yes, which is why it looks like you're shrouded in in darkness. This is exactly what's going on
Yeah, this is he was he was showing you his ass
while he was turning to
To show me his face. I'm with you man. I look I'm gonna tell you
I think you're on to something here
You also produce content and are growing a patreon
Patria and how will you announce this thing?
Go
Join him help him. You can harass him in the comments. Tell us a little bit about the patreon
Yeah, so, um, it's cheap
You can you can join for like I think it's I think it's like $3.50 or or $4 depending on where you're from
I'm a Canadian so so the
The the currency is always a mystery to me
But you will get early access to to all of my videos including everything
That is coming out in my epic series
The Dead Sea Scrolls unapologetically
and
If you're if you're a premier member we do we've we started doing this a couple months ago
We've we've started doing
Monthly live meet-ups. I mean up with with interested patrons from all over the globe
We've I've had to I've had to split this now into two sessions
Uh on our on our meet update just to make sure that you know, we can satisfy everybody from
Europe to the east coast to
Uh, the west coast in Australia, but uh, but it's it's super fun
We just sit and we chill and and we chat I answer questions. I have had some special guests
Uh, just drop in you know for some
for some uh for some chats
and uh
Go support what we're doing. Oh support man. Yeah
and uh, and and it helps me a ton because like
this the series especially on uh on on the Dead Sea Scrolls that I'm trying to build is uh
Is a massive undertaking
um
And people should be watching it and if you haven't yet, please
Watch from the start, but what I'm what I'm attempting to do which is completely new and completely different
is to tell
uh the story of the Dead Sea Scrolls in
uh exceptional detail
but not just uh
the the story of the texts and their contents but also the history of their discovery and
how
their discovery and what was happening in the world
uh
around
The time of this discovery really
uh shaped the way in which scholarly conversations about the scrolls
uh had had have
Proceeded over the course of of the last 70 years
so it's um, and and it's all uh, of course
Built within the title. It's Dead Sea Scrolls unapologetically
um, the the the other thing I'm trying to do is to set the record straight about a lot of the uh
apologetic claims
that christians tend to make
About the scrolls which quite frankly are just not they're just not right. They're not correct. They're uh, they're misleading
so uh, so let's uh
Let's learn about the scrolls. Let's learn about the scrolls. You you have something
Important that I think is necessary to repeat if you haven't done it on air yet as we're leading up to the oldest
Bible or oldest scroll known
And that is
When you came and visited me and recorded the 18 lecture course which when this gets done will trust me
You'll know we'll be screaming it from the rooftops and getting people to sign up for that course
a lot of hard work put into that and
You put so much energy and time into it, but
You mentioned how your teacher
was saying that the Dead Sea Scrolls scholar is in
the best position
Of being able to discuss Old Testament studies
Because it is the oldest
material evidence for scripture as we call it
known so there is
No, I mean, maybe you might find some fragment or something from a
Maybe an inscription or something that might relate or be something we find that I guess you could say
It's something that is biblical in its teaching kind of like the the Mount Ebal cursed tablet, right?
Wherever you date it whenever you date it
This is authentic. Okay
um
It has curses on it and and like we know the biblical narrative talks about curses and
This mountain may have carried a tradition where people went to this area to curse people
Okay, that doesn't mean that scripture or that that was canonical or anything like that
But this might have been a practice that found its way within the text that we have we call the Bible
So the earliest material data is the Dead Sea Scrolls. Can you tell us why that's so significant?
So, um, well, first of all, I wanted to I wanted to to riff a little bit on
What you said at at at at the start of of of your uh, your little bit there my my doctor father
George J. Brooke at the University of Manchester used used to complain about this
Uh, quite a bit he he told me that when he taught introduction to the Old Testament
He always started with the Dead Sea Scrolls and the reason he started there and the reason why
Uh, I think it's a an excellent excellent place to begin
Is because this is our this is our earliest
material evidence for anything
Even resembling a Bible
um, you know, it's it's no so it's no sort of a consternation for
myself
for for other scholars of early Judaism and and the Dead Sea Scrolls in particular
Just, you know, I've I've gone I've applied for
positions
In Old Testament departments at universities and I and this is uh, this is a common thing like like when
people like me who've spent their their lives
Uh, studying the Scrolls will apply for positions in Old Testament departments at universities
It's not uncommon to get a response
from the uh search committees going well, you're not really an Old Testament scholar
which drives me crazy because because
If you're a Dead Sea Scrolls scholar, of course
You are deeply invested in
What the Old Testament is about where it came from and what's going on in there?
and if in what I continue to tell people is that
again
This should be the starting point and that's kind of what what we're doing here today
instead of
speaking of
You know the the first Bible the origins of the Bible
From where we think it should have began
Book of Genesis is the first book of the Bible, you know, it starts with the story of Adam and Eve and or if you're a
slightly more more
critical thinker than that, you know, well
They started putting together traditions of the Torah all the way back in the
In the first temple period during the you know during the reigns of of David and Solomon or Hezekiah or or who have you
um
Maybe did they
You know, we we tend to think yeah, probably but this is and this is something that
That christian apologists will continue to remind us of is that you can't prove any of that and they're absolutely right
So what do we have?
we've got manuscripts
and
The manuscripts we have in the Dead Sea Scrolls are predominantly
from
the first century
BCE
And we've got a bunch from the first century CE
sounds like from a hundred
BC to
probably 67
CE which is when
We tend to think that the community was was driven out by the Romans and the site was destroyed
Um, but we also have stuff there. That's that's a fair bit older than that
We have manuscripts acquired a bunch from the second century BCE and we even have a handful
One of which we're going to show
today
way back from
The mid third century
BCE so
This we have a small handful
of copies of texts
From the time when people probably when some people probably actually could remember
Uh, Alexander the Great
Um, you know, it was in the in the middle text from from right in the middle
of when uh, when the hellenism
Was becoming deeply integrated
into
The cultural religious expressions of the people who who collected this literature
It we have texts that that come from a time
prior to
The establishment of the independent kingdom
of the Hasmoneans
in 180
BCE so
We've got a handful of these these manuscripts which are very very old
So, I don't know. Do you want to do you want to show it now?
Yeah, uh, I think I do want to tease people just saying get ready. We're going to show you the oldest
Um, at least according to the consensus of Dead Sea Scroll scholars that have evaluated this the oldest papyri
No, it's not papyrus. Oh, it isn't. What is it animals?
Yeah, okay. Okay. Parchment. There's not a lot. So, okay
And while you bring that up, I'll say something else about this. So most of the scrolls are actually parchment
Okay, um animal skin. There are papyrus
There are papyri
In uh in the Dead Sea Scrolls and one of the interesting ongoing questions
Uh that scholars are continuing to investigate is the relationship between like why why write on parchment?
Why write on papyrus?
We now know and this is, you know, within the last 20 years. We now know that uh, unlike
uh
earlier ideas about papyrus
Uh, it didn't all come out of egypt. Uh, there are places in the deep south
of uh
Of palestine where you know, it looks like
uh, jews were actually growing and uh cultivating their own papyrus around the Dead Sea
Uh, not farther south than that
So, um, yeah, so it uh, it's it's it's pretty interesting
and like
here
We'll get into this but but like one of one of the
The wrinkles that that papyrus
has uh has added to this uh to this whole conversation
is that I mean the
As far as we can tell the general rule here is that it's a it's a cheaper more accessible material
Uh, so it's you know, you write on papyrus
something that that you want
um, but
Doesn't necessarily need to have the kind of endurance and longevity
That would be required of of of something like like an animal skin, right?
Um, so automatically, you know, the expectation is well the most important
Stuff you're going to put on
Parchments on animal skins and you know stuff that that is less important
So-called individual copies like like personal copies of text as opposed to stuff
That's that's maybe used by the community you might put on papyrus, but you know, we've got copies of
biblical texts
on papyrus
So both are there
What we're looking at as you say animal skin parchment and so
I'm gonna let's just go ahead and show them because
We're gonna zoom in real close. This is gonna be cool. I hope everybody hits the like button
You know drops comments in the chat when this is over leave a comment all that cool stuff
Make sure you check out all the channels and let's go ahead and take a peek here
at the oldest one and that is
What what is this?
So
Pull it up. There we go zoom in a little bit
So this is one of I believe it's three or four fragments
of uh
4 q 17 this is a copy of uh text from exodus chapter 38
39 40
and it looks like
Leviticus chapter one and possibly even a little bit of chapter two now. This is this is a very interesting
uh
set of fragments from a very interesting scroll for a few reasons in the first place
Uh, the script that has been used to pen this indicates to scholars that this is a very very old
manuscripts that people don't know
Uh, the the predominant method for dating
Uh manuscripts is uh is by way of the handwriting
Uh through a system called uh paleography
so
On the basis of the handwriting this manuscript has been dated to you know, uh,
Roughly about 250
bce
Based on what remains we we are confident that this is actually a very large
Um manuscript on the basis of the science the mechanics of how how scrolls
were stored and then deteriorated
Uh as a general rule of thumb where you have large fragments and this this would constitute a large fragment
this particular one
Measures about uh, I think it's 14 centimeters across
Where you have large fragments they survive from a a bulk
um a a considerable amount
Of material which suggests this was a large scroll and of course
Because of the contents, uh, you've got a transition here from the end of the book of exodus
and the beginning
of the book of leviticus
uh
I think scholars tend to be agreed that this most likely
Was a scroll that contained all of
Something well all of the book of exodus or something very closely resembling
our copy of the book of exodus and
Uh the book of leviticus, uh, which would have made it a a very very large
uh document
The scholars that did the work on this
um frank moor cross
And I don't remember the the other guy
uh, they
Concluded they calculated that uh this manuscript at one time
Uh had 60 lines roughly in a column and if you've seen
Uh the videos in my uh any of the first three videos in my series on the density scrolls
You all understand right at the outset what this means. This is a this is a big manuscript and it's unusually large because
in the period
People tended not to not to construct
manuscripts of this size. They tended to be
shorter
And uh, yeah shorter and less fat
I guess
For lack of a lack of a better word. So 60 lines in a column
Is substantial what we have here and if you go, uh, so towards the bottom here derrick, I'll I'll show you
Something significant that we have here is actually preservation of the bottom
Uh the bottom margin of this manuscript which measures about two centimeters
And that is also an indicator to scholars that this was a sizable
manuscript because as a uh as a convention in this period you you, uh
You constructed
Your your manuscripts and the margins you you supplied to them were relative
Um smaller margins for smaller manuscripts larger margins for larger manuscripts. The two centimeter margin is substantial
Uh, so this was a very large
um
Very significant
uh copy of uh exodus and leviticus
Um something like this would have been extremely expensive to produce
Uh, these are the sorts of things that the tended not to be
Uh produced and owned by
individuals, but rather by
uh communities
um and used in probably some some uh, uh, a sort of synagogue
setting
So so that's I mean in terms of in terms of
the bible
Right, that's as early as that. This is the old. This is the oldest
This is the oldest
Hebrew
Uh copy of of Hebrew literature
Um that we have and and making this this distinction is very important. I noticed somebody mentioned
In the chat. It's one of the superchats we'll get to but the katifinum
Uh amulets preserve text from uh the eronic blessing which appears in numbers
um, but these aren't
This is not a bible, right? These were little amulets that were that were inscribed
With text and they were rolled up and somebody wore them around their necks or you know attached to the body somewhere
Probably as like magical protection devices
So this is this is not a
We should qualify that a bible has to be a text that you can read and that you can use
It's also a a substantial
Uh collection of literature
So this is the best that we've got we've got a a scroll that was large a scroll that contained text from you know two
supposed compositions exodus and leviticus altogether
um, and it's something the the the people used
And uh that they read real quick
Someone brought up the the septuagint, right?
And they say the oldest bible and notice the term bible keeps coming up
Is the septuagint, but let me ask you this since we're not dealing with that term this canonical or we have this like
Grouped literature that we have defined clearly defined. We don't know
This being honest like we don't know
What they considered their
Canon or bible or whatever if that was even a thing to them like obviously they saw this as sacred literature in some way
This was important literature in some way. Nobody's denying that the category of scripture and bible
We have ideas of what that means
We need to strip that out of our head when we're reading or looking at this right here and saying
They have the same idea about all of this as we do. No, we don't know that especially when they're rewriting
Older literature to make their own narratives about it like jubilees, etc. And Matthew Munger does that
So this is my question just to make sure we're on the same page. This is Hebrew very difficult to read
It's worn out quite a lot
But is this the oldest biblical literature older than any greek manuscript older than anything
We don't have any greek manuscripts this old
containing any any uh
Any quote-unquote biblical texts and I think it's I need to point this out
Like we don't know nearly as much about the septogen as we think we do
Uh, like we've got a handful of fragments. We've got traditions about how it was it was produced
And I tend to think there's there's a kernel of truth behind this right that the septogen is a is a collection of
Uh, Hebrew scriptures that came out of alexandria at some point in the uh in the third century
But what we're dealing with here
If people don't know there are
there are three
primary versions
of
Uh, the biblical text of the old testament text
Uh, that that scholars will will talk about those are the masoretic text tradition
The septogen text tradition and the samaritan penitouk text tradition. So these are all
You know, these are all textual families which have
Uh varying differences between them which look like they they they were um, they were produced and then
collected together in you know, like uh
like a
stream
Of of a community
Uh, they tend to be geographically grouped, you know septogen
The septogen tradition is believed to have come out of
Egyptian Jewish communities. The samaritan tradition is believed to have stemmed from palestine
and you know, the uh, masoretic tradition is believed to have come from
Uh, the jewish communities living in babelon
This is all theory at this point. I think I think there's some
There's there's there's some currency to this
But it's again, this is this is still stuff that the that we're just kind of piecing together
So all that said
When it comes to tracing these traditions back
Here's what we discover
Is that we kind of come to a a starting point
And it's the same for all of them at some point
Probably in the early third, maybe the late fourth
Early third century bce
That's sort of as far back as we can track this stuff
realistically
This is where it all began and as I mentioned to uh, uh to to
An apologist that uh, that people might be familiar with on on on twitter, uh, dr. Stephen Boyce
I was in a conversation with him on the phone once
Um, not that long ago
Talking about this issue and I and as I I said it to him
Anything back prior to you know, like the early third late fourth century with regards to the text with regards to the religion
It's a black box
We just can't get in there. There's very little actual material culture
That survives from the period that provides us any meaningful insight into what was going on
In Judaism at the period. So it's so yonatan adler
This is exactly what yonatan adler talks about. Yes his book on the origins of judaism as a religion
and obviously
You know, this this goes into your course actually a little just to tease people
What the common religion of the jews or if if we could even use the term because that might be anachronistic as well
Okay, you deans, uh, you you dioce. Okay the people who are located in this region. Okay
Um that have jerusalem as their central focal point, which was not always the case. That's a whole nother
Rabbit trail within that black box that you're talking about kip that we do not have material evidence prior
Let's just say third century like by before that. We're not sure about synagogues. We're not sure about what like like the sacred
Baths where they would go and they would wash and you name it even kosher food. I mean, there's so many things
We don't know and we're looking at the oldest
Text right here that we have so I mean this is fascinating. Yeah
I I gotta say something we're gonna talk a little bit about language here at some point too
But I wanted to so I want to read something. Okay with about this particular manuscript
um
I'm moving it around a little to get people like to actually see zooming in
It's kind of cool. This is an animal skin for those who don't know so
Yeah, it's vellum
vellum, uh, so I know what animal this was
probably calf skin
uh, the vast majority of the uh, of the
The the the scrolls I believe are
are Jewish cows
as Craig Evans
put it
That terrible interview with
With john mcdowell. Uh, but yeah, there's there's there's uh, there's goat skin in there as well. Um, but it's so we we determine this stuff
through uh through dna
testing
Um, of course not every not every fragment for every difference the scrolls has been dna tested
Um, and I have no idea what uh, this particular one was but it was probably cow possibly
goat so I want to read uh, just a paragraph here from the edition
published about
Uh, this particular manuscript
We got with regards to the actual text. Okay
So this is frank more cross
Writing here. He says the relationship in 4 q exodus leviticus f. That's the designation for this manuscript
Uh, to the other textual families. That's the samaritan penitou
the septigent and the masoretic text
Can be summarized as follows
in no case
Does 4 q exodus leviticus f?
Uh, stand with the masoretic text alone
Against either the samaritan penitouk or the septigent
Or the samaritan penitouk and the septigent together in inferior or for that matter superior
readings
Nor does 4 q exodus leviticus f side with the septigent alone
Against the samaritan penitouk or the masoretic text or the samaritan penitouk and the masoretic text together in secondary readings
It's affiliation to judge from significant inferior readings is with the samaritan tradition
but
At the same time, it's freedom and tendency towards expansion provide an interesting
insight into the early stage of pentatucal text in palestine
We must conclude that 4 q exodus leviticus f this manuscript is an early
direct or better collateral
witness to the textual family
Which has been called proto samaritan in which i prefer to label as palestinian. So what he's saying here is that
for the most part
this looks like
A member of the so-called samaritan penitouk family
of texts on the basis of of the readings that have survived in this manuscript
But something important that he notes is that
that being said
There's still lots of
places within just these few fragments
Where there seems to be you know a tendency towards
readings in the septigent as well as towards the masoretic texts
There's there's places where where we find agreement with all of the additions. So
It's predominantly samaritan
But it sort of goes back to a time even prior to or at the point in which
These individual streams of traditions are starting to to settle and become more distinct from one another
Uh, which is pretty pretty wild pretty interesting. So, um, but I think it's important to
At this point to talk about language and what language can tell us about the origins of the bible and the origin of the biblical text
So the script that we're looking at here that the language is Hebrew
The script that we're looking at is aratamaic
um
The Hebrew script is what we we now call
uh
paleo Hebrew which is
An unfortunate
term it's better
It's better appropriate as simply Hebrew or even better just canaanite
because it's the same script that was used by
Everybody in the uh in you know the the the mid to late iron age
region of what we now call palestine. It's the script that everybody used. It's not
Hebrew it was used by the canaanites as well. So
uh, we have
Uh manuscripts from kumran that are written in this canaanite paleo Hebrew script
uh, the samaritan penituke
uh was
was uh after the the establishment of this samaritan community
In and around mont garazim which happened
in this same period of time somewhere in the
you know, uh early late fourth early third century bce
They started to collect all their written traditions their texts
Using this old canaanite script. So this is an aramaic script
uh, the aramaic script
Uh is something that the jews developed
out of
Babylon
basically the greek, you know the the greek
Uh translations of the uh, Hebrew bible are written in greek with a greek script. So now
I mean, there's a there's there's a temptation here to to think that well
The samaritans are are preserving all their all their texts and and bear in mind for the samaritans. It's just the Torah
Nothing but the Torah, right?
Surely they're they're they've you know, they're they're just preserving the way that it was always written in this very old
uh, canaanite script
um
Really?
Is that the way it goes or
Is it rather that the samaritans have adopted this text and determine that we're going to write this
using the old canaanite script because
uh
of our deference
To the ancient religion to our ideas about the antiquity and to the you know, not using that
that that uh impure aramaic script, you know, that's associated with Babylon
We're going to use like like the old original script and I think there's there's something important to note here is that
Yes, we have copies of Torah texts
that cane
that that are in the form of
The canaanite script they were written in this this paleo Hebrew script
but
um
That these are these are a minority
By far the vast majority of manuscripts that we have Hebrew manuscripts are written using this aramaic script
importantly
We have nothing
of the Hebrew prophets
written in a canaanite script
Why is this important?
So I'll answer my own question
This is it. This is important
Were you were you were you were you killer? Were you going oh god? What's the no no? No, I just find it
how you yeah, so
If the Hebrew prophets were writing
In
Iron Age
Palestine in the side jordan. This is jordan whatever it is
They would have been writing in the conventional canaanite script of the day
If that is the case
Then why no
Why no copies of the prophets?
In a canaanite script. Why is everything
written in this
aramaic script, which is something that
the the jews
Or you know for lack of a better term the jews didn't really even start to use
until after
The Babylonian Exile I think this whole discussion of languages
And scripts is pretty significant and important when it comes to talking about
Where the bible came from how old it actually is
and uh, and and you know, yeah
Okay, so
There's some great stuff here to think and this is a weird text to have
Samaritan slash, you know the various types of manuscript data that we're looking at is where's this tradition coming out of?
Is it a combination in fact another way to put it?
We you know
I'm going to use a new testament thing that I'm more familiar with paula fredersen went on record on myth vision when I interviewed her
About paul and i'm like paul's waiting for the end to happen right paul's ready for the end to happen any rights like it's going to be soon
Like you know
The lore is going to come and those of us who remain are going to be caught up in the air with them the whole nine
and
She says something and it just blew my mind and it was so just
Silly and like common sense to her, but it was like not stuff that we think about and she goes
She said well paul's late
and i'm like
What?
Because we're always going our earliest new testament data is from paul and this is really really early stuff because we have this
There is an apologetic agenda to go man
We go it goes right back to the guy and like we have this super confidence
and
She goes paul's late in fact
um
His apocalypticism is like oh my gosh lord. You better hurry up
Is it going to happen? They're all worried if it's even going to happen. That's why he's writing the letter to the Thessalonians
Now now like using that analogy to go back to this literature. We're looking at which is the oldest
fragment of something that we have
um on animal skin parchment
This is
Late is another way of looking at it that is using multiple
I know it's early as far as the data we have but it's like
We can't see the way we conceptualize this. It's late, right? Yeah
So that's like swallow that pill try to wrap your head around that
Yeah, so that's manuscripts. Let's talk about let's talk about this idea of text and this idea of the bible
um, one of the things that I and I spent quite a bit of time
uh
This is basically the the feature of my latest video
Number three in my series the Dead Sea Scrolls
Unapologetically which just dropped yesterday
Uh, the title of that video is what is a biblical text anyways?
And it's a and it's a very important question when it comes to to assessing
The evidence that we have in the Dead Sea Scrolls
But I would say even more broadly in terms of assessing
uh
All of these textual traditions that we've inherited the Sparitan Pentateuch
The Septuagint the Masoretic text
um, so
One of the problems that we encounter
When it comes to the Dead Sea Scrolls is that
They have been already pre-classified for us. You'll notice
The the the title the name that the the classification that's been
um, you know designated for this particular manuscript is
4q
Exodus Leviticus
F
Right
And the reason for that is because it appears to have been a copy of Exodus and Leviticus
Uh, when the first scholars started working through sifting through literally hundreds and hundreds
And then it became thousands and thousands
Of fragments of material they had to work pretty quickly
They had to work efficiently you start from
you know
What you know and for them it was like
I can identify these fragments as quote-unquote biblical texts these these belong to books from you know our
Hebrew Bible that we know so
These fragments these manuscripts here are
biblical
Right anything that doesn't appear in our bibles
Has now been cropped classified
by the first scholars who handled this material as
non
biblical
So how does this affect the way we even start to think about this material about this literature?
We're already starting
From an immaculacy just a second to to
Emphasize that people like me man. We'll hear something twice three times and it finally clicks. I want to emphasize
Non canonical material
That was seemingly just as valued as what we call canonical material is found
lumped together with all of this material we're finding correct
Yeah
so
And this is yeah, so this is this is the problem, right?
um
You know, how do you in the in the beginning?
scholars were just just
Analyzing the manuscripts on the basis of the texts
The the contents what they contained what it's about what sort of a text this seems to be
Oh, it's a copy of uh samuel. This is a biblical text. Oh, this is a copy of enog. That's a non biblical text
Oh, this is a copy of ben siri. Yes, there's ben siri kumran. This is a non biblical text
so and then oh
here's something that
Nobody on the planet has ever seen before
This is a non biblical text
but
What we've encountered so I I made an important you've mentioned this too though dr. Kip
That's us. Oh, this is isaia. This is but there's stuff in this
What hold on it's bibl not biblical something's wrong here, but go ahead
so one of the like one of the
when I
one of the uh, I would say the the
the points of
um real confusion
Within the study of the densest goals where this happened was when they discovered or when they started working through
Uh a set of manuscripts. I I talk about in my video called
reworked penitouk
uh, and these are
You know, it's it's
It's uh, is there genesis?
I'm trying to remember if there is but it's certainly exodus leviticus numbers
right
um, we can recognize the text from
You know these fragments and it matches, you know versions
Of this that we have, you know in our bibles, but then
There's all sorts of different things like substantially different things in my video
I go through one part of one of these manuscripts where
uh
In in one of these fragments. It's it's listing the uh the festivals
celebrated by uh by the hebrus that appear in leviticus chapter two
Um, but then this manuscript I kid you not adds like a full paragraph
of material
to the text
of leviticus two
in order to legitimate
The celebration of the fest the festival of new oil
and the festival of wood
which
Are not festivals that appear in the uh in the official listing in leviticus. So
And and this is not to say that all this this at one time went way back to you know, the beginnings when
And this is this is the original reading. No, I would say more importantly. What's happening here is a writer or
Like like an author or a scribe
uh
Is is is is a a a a celebrator
He honors these festivals of of wood and oil
They're really important in his estimation
But uh, he also has this strong conviction that we must only observe those festivals that were mandated by moses
So what's the solution to this?
It's pretty simple
You just ensure that
You
included in your text as mandated by moses
You just they are saying where moses you just kind of added
Yes
Yes
So then it wasn't you know, we might look at that today and this is so modern of us
So I want you to really nail me on this because it's i'm guilty of it
Um, I try not to be as I educate myself with scholars
This is something I want to teach the skeptics or atheist community to follow suit of like trying to listen to what the academics are saying and
Keep up with what is going on there. But like we might look at that and go that's a lie
That is so dishonest and that was they're saying moses said that come on
They're making stuff up. That's not true and even if literally that is the case
Maybe they're the the mode in which they operate in their mind isn't they're actually trying to be deceptive
They they somehow believe that this is really
I don't know. What would how would you put that?
I have no I have no doubt in my mind that whoever
Whoever the first one was to to include that tradition honestly believed
You know
and even like
I think it's it's probably simplest to think that that the people living in the the fourth or the third
century bce or even the second century bce
I think the simplest way it's simplest to to to think that they
Had a concept they they understood that moses was an actual guy who who did these actual things and these actual things happened
In the history of israela, but there again. I mean, we don't there's there's no certainty that everybody
Didn't everybody believed that
I mean it seems entirely likely to me as well that there were surely people who said, yeah, that's bullshit
right
But it's important
right and
Whether he thought it was an actual guy or whether he thought this was just uh, you know
This was a this was a tradition that we've inherited that's super important
The way to ensure I I've no doubt that he thought this was originally the way it was supposed to be
That these festivals were always supposed to be
part of our religious observance and he can't explain why
They don't appear in leviticus 2 in his mind
He's fixing the text. He's making sure it's right
On the basis of how how he understands his religion
But I think what what we see in the dead z scrolls that gets me so excited like
Like christian apologists are are going to constantly point to the copies of
Quote unquote biblical copies of bible that we have there and say oh look at how faithfully they've preserved these texts over
the many years
It just it it's a testament to the
To to the the longevity of this tradition and the accuracy of these things that stretches all the way back
to the very beginning
No
What we see
Actually in the scrolls when you take a much more comprehensive view not just of what we have classified as bible
But of these other texts like rework penitube
Which for all intents and purposes looks like it functioned in the very same way
For these people as did any other copy of leviticus
What we see in the dead z scrolls is a snapshot
Of textual development taking place
Before our very eyes and it's something we see
echoed already occurring
In the biblical text themselves. What is the book of deuteronomy?
It's a rewritten bible
It's
Fixing the covenant code
What is the book of chronicles?
It's rewritten bible
It's fixing the deuteronomistic history that we've inherited in uh in samuel and kings
So
Uh at one point. I love that the prophet jeremiah actually quotes
or cites
Uh the prophet mica
In his own
You know in his own prophecies. What's he doing? He certainly credits mica. He says mica said this
But then he's reconstituting this material and he's turning it into something something new something much more useful
This is something that was taking place. This is what was taking place from the very beginning and it obviously continued
all the way into
You know the time of jesus
there's still
Reappropriating these old texts the gospel is subtle. It's it's like, you know
It's akin to evolution right to to thinking biologically the changes that we can observe are subtle
But when you when you map them out
over
You know centuries when this this material was was put together and created they become big
They become massive they become substantially more significant
I'm just teasing people here to like it's like dangling that yarn in front of the kitty cat
To jump on your youtube and go check your video out when we're done
But I love what you're saying here. We have super chats. We're gonna get to we have another manuscript or
Another parchment we want to look at. I think it's a part. Yeah
Um, it's parchment
But I do want to say what you're saying is fantastic because the same practice that happens within the tradition
Of rewriting their own tradition
You can apply the same thing with what we're seeing in genesis about rewriting mesopotamian
stories about reef exactly doing it with other
Culture but obviously combating it. So they're in direct opposition to the growth of civilization
Um, there's all sorts of stuff going on there
But I'm actually doing that series with dr. Josh a scripted series on genesis and where it gets its mythology from
But I love what you're you're saying here because it makes sense as to why we as christians
Have looked and said thus it is written the virgin shall conceive and bear a son
Huh, then you go back and you're like this has nothing to do with jesus
But doesn't matter they make it all about jesus. So yeah, they saw they weren't like
I I can imagine it anachronistically. I've had rabbi tobi singer come on and go. They're being deceptive
They're lying to you on purpose and it's like
They're just doing good
They're just doing good
Jewish
Bible exegesis
This is the way
This is the way
So
It's how it was done blowing even more right now. I'm starting to get terrified. Oh, I'm sorry, man
Maybe maybe we should maybe we should look at this other manuscript
I wanted to show this other one because this is so this is the other side
Of of the discussion here of of what we've been talking about. There's gerald Lancaster Harding with his cigarette in his mouth
What a sexy dude, dude, that's pretty cool. I always wondered about that too
All right, so here we are. So he was the director of the
The the palestinian and antiquities department. Okay at the time when
when the palestinian the british mandate for palestine came to an end
And the establishment of the state of israel and then the the arab state there as well. So anyways, so
What we have here
is
A fragment of a very fine looking
manuscript
So the amount of material that we have
Surviving from this particular manuscript is is similar to the copy of genesis. I or sorry of exoslaveticus that that we saw
Earlier
So this is a large fragment and remember what I said
This suggests strongly to us that this survived from a large manuscript if you go to the bottom here
you will see preservation
of a two centimeter margin which also indicates to us that this
is
a surviving copy of a very large manuscript the script itself is that it's it's the kind of thing that
It's the kind of thing that makes me horny. What can I say?
uh, when I when I look
When I look at this script and and if you zoom in on on just one of these like on this larger piece here to
Take a look at just some of these
beautiful letters. This is this is an
exquisite
uh script
This was written by a professional sky if you just actually pause it there go back a little bit
Just a little bit. Yeah, stop there
if you look you've got
Right almost in the center of your page. You actually have two
occurrences on the other yeah on on
Book ends of where you're circling your your cursor there. You have the same word panim
And then um l and then panim again
And when you just look at the way the letters are formed
On this uh on on on the word panim
You can see that each letter almost appears identical to
Uh to its counterpart in in the other in the other word
This is a this is an indicator to us that this is a professionally trained scribe
he is
very very experienced and excellent
In uh in his craft
This would have been produced
By a member of what I would identify as a scribal guild
Uh, you know in the hasmenean kingdom at least they already they had started to establish basically a professional class
of scribes that wasn't
necessarily attached to the temple establishment, but was you know part of the merchant class
uh writers who would
You know for their vocation
Right what people wanted them to people would would bring
You know a papyrus or a parchment to them and say I want you to make a copy of this for me
Uh, I want you to to make it this big or or this small
um
And you know they would sit down and write it
What the professional scribal guilds gave us are lots and lots
Of these, you know exquisitely crafted and again very expensive to produce
manuscripts
So this particular manuscript is not as old not nearly as old as the other one this one
What script is this? I mean what what book is this? This is an aramaic script, right?
Uh something that's interesting about this particular script. Um, and one of the reasons I think it is as old as it is
I I have dated this man. I just just based on a cursory glance
I haven't taken the time to do it
Um, and now I kind of like to actually sit down and and and date the thing
But just just on the basis of what I'm seeing
It looks to me like it's probably mid first century or sorry mid second century bce. I say
bce so like somewhere between 150 to
100
bce second half of the of of the second century bce there
um
Now one one of the interesting things about this script is uh, if if anybody knows what a what a laumet is
That's the the heber letter that makes the the l sound
Hence laumet. It's they're easy to find on any manuscript because it's like the only letter
That uh part of which actually it sticks up above the line
Uh, there it is. There's a laumet. Uh, one of the interesting things I think about this particular
script with these laumets is the quite wide
um
Many people who read heber are unaware of this
But so they're not unaware of the fact that there are final letters like there's a different form
Of certain letters that appear at the end of a word. That's common knowledge
But what many people are unaware of is that the letter laumet once
had a final form
But it you know, it disappeared over time
We have a handful of manuscripts from kumran where there are actual final laumets
in them
Uh distinct from laumets that occur in the middle of a word
But uh, but those are all gone. What I like about this particular manuscript is the way that the laumets look
Suggest to me that that this is almost a fossil of a final laumet
Without actually being a final laumet. So it I I think it's it's at this transition point where the final laumets are
gradually falling out of fashion
Um, but you know, the whoever learned to write
Uh and wrote this script, uh is is has come to the point where this final laumet form
He probably learned but is now incorporating throughout his his construction of the manuscript. So
this is uh, this is
like I said
exquisitely crafted
text
manuscript
Very expensive to produce
Obviously survives from a very large scroll on the basis of the size of this fragment, which measures
I I believe it's about 16 centimeters cross
Uh, the margins are big
That's like, uh, that's like a like a two and a half
centimeter margin on the bottom. It was probably a three centimeter margin
originally
Uh on the bottom the the inter columnar margin is is pretty sizable. It's about a centimeter
If you zoom in again, I'll show you something else on the margins. You can actually see the lines. Do you see that?
Yeah
The lines that he marked out
in in
Constructing his manuscript. That's super cool. I think right and and something that something that's important here, too is
oftentimes when
when
Marking out when when putting the lines on your manuscript, you're only going to put horizontal lines
And then you're going to put a vertical line for where you start
Your your column, right? What this guy has done
um
Which he's he's actually put another he's actually put a margin
To to help him find the end of his column, too
But it seems like he's willing to go over it
Whereas on the starting line, you see how everything's uniform right here where they start from right to left
On the right side, this line goes through the letters
Which means he may have went hey try not to go too much beyond this point
You have to right this isn't greek
You can't just just start a word and continue it on the following line. You have to finish the word
So and this is this is normal
um right margins in a in a
A school a Hebrew school are always, you know, not going to be perfectly
Sorry left margins are always not going to be perfectly uniform because they're ending the line and they end it where you know
Where best they can
Um, the other thing too, you'll notice there's a blank line here. There's a break. Yeah
Yeah, so this is this is probably like the end of a paragraph of some sort. You'll see zoom out again
Uh on the set on the other column, you'll see another sizeable break right in the middle of the line
So, you know, these are the sorts of indicators that show that this is a this is a piece of literature. It's large
Um, and it's it's expensive. It's exquisite. It it was uh, uh
It was treasured by the community that collected it. So what does it say?
um, so this is a this is one of these types of manuscripts that um
scholars looked at it the first time and said
This is something that nobody's ever even seen before
so in that first column
You've got mention of uh, it says for the tribe of benjamin. You're gonna fire for the tribe of god
a leo
And then there's a break or and then there and then it says something like the rear guard
20 years old and then there's a break
And then it mentions a man from the chassidim and this is moses
We know this is moses because of what appears in the in the following column
It says a man from the chassidim. He raised his voice
And then it breaks off, right?
And then in the following line, it says
And his furious anger
abated
From myriety and or sorry. It says and his furious anger abated
And myriam was shielded from his eyes
So I think this line is talking probably about god about yahweh and then in that final line there it says
uh
Over or against us and then it employs the fem a feminine singular verb here and says she will lead us
so
Like there's there's this is one of the frustrating things when it comes to to text dealing with text that you don't know or that you don't recognize
Right, that's brand new. Uh, it's super fragmentary. So we've just got like these
snippets of of stuff that's going on
But we can't figure it all out because there's so much that's missing here, right? Right. Um
To my ear to my eye this sounds kind of like numbers chapter 12 numbers 13
If you're unfamiliar, this is so this is uh, there's a point
Uh, but but it seems almost reversed because I think it's in numbers 13
Uh, there's an enumerate. There there is numbers 13 is the establishment of the the council of 70
Uh, where moses, uh, you know, you know, elects the the 70 elders as representatives from the tribes and and they're all given names
And you see that here, right for the tribe of benjamin some guy named raffaia for the tribe of gad some guy named leo
interestingly, these are not the names
That appear in, you know, the masoretic text or the septigent
uh, and then
Underneath the break there. It looks like this is a this is, uh
similar to the story
about uh medium
and erin
Fronting moses and challenging his authority and then you know god
Uh striking medium with uh with leprosy and she has to beg moses for
For um, you know for healing, right? So it kind of looks like that, but I don't know
I mean, this is the best that I can do here, right
So we can see more of what's going on in the next column
And I'll read to you here what what I have and where we add on the do you know exactly where on this we're at?
So I'll start at the top of the column on column two. So you see the second column there?
um
Not really. So on the left side that the big text on the left side. It's like that whole column of text, right?
Yeah, that's the column the second column we're going to deal with now all that
so
um
And and again, you'll notice too. There's stuff missing, right? There's there's there's damage and there's breaks and stuff
So it's incomplete, but we can see a lot more of what's going on here. So
uh
It starts off from from where where there's there's just a word all on its own
That survives from a line that says and your signs
But we we can't situate it contextually
And then uh, it continues
They explained in the statutes of moses and then there's a break where there's like the end of a paragraph
And here's where we can actually get into the meat of it and see it and and and read a continuous text
And this is what it says
so
a livu the name of some guy named a livu
responded and said
listen
congregation of yahuai and
pay close attention
the whole assembly
And then there's a break here
And it continues it says a man is accursed who does not stand
Keep and perform all of the commandments of yahuai by the mouth of moses
his messiah
Nor does he follow after yahuai god of our fathers who brought us from mount sinai
For he has spoken among the congregation of israel face to face as a man speaks with his friend as i was
You know speaking with yahuai right now this this dream began. Yes, right
The man speaks with his friend or as a man might reveal to his friend
He has showed us a blazing fire above the sky
And upon the earth he has stood on the mountain to make known that there is no god except for him
And there is no rock like him. So the word rock there sword is a is a
Award that's that's often applied
Directly to yahuai. It's like a nickname. We see in Deuteronomy 32 the song of moses
the congregation so that's the end of elivu's speech
And it says the congregation answered
trembling had gripped them because
Of the glory of god and the terrible sound and they stood at a distance
And moses the man of god
Was with god in the cloud and the cloud concealed him
For there's a break and it says when he was sanctified
And as an angel he spoke with his mouth
For who among flesh is like him a man of the hasidim?
And
Who was never created before or since and that's unfortunately the end of the column, but that's
So that's a text
That
In the second part. I I'm I'm not even entirely sure what to do with this. This is obviously this guy elivu is making an impassioned appeal
um
An impassioned appeal on behalf of moses saying this is this we absolutely need to listen to this guy
The messiah of yahuai
You know the man of god
uh, and and then uh
It it yeah, so i'll be right back. I'm sorry. Hold on. Okay continue. So it kind of fits
It kind of fits into
Some of what I think is happening in in in the earlier column where moses authority maybe is being challenged
Uh to some degree, but this is this guy is offering an apologetic on behalf of moses, but importantly
This is a text that I I mean it's not
what
We would call
A biblical text precisely because it doesn't look like anything
really
That survives in our bibles, but
but
The very important question to ask
At this point is the people who collected these manuscripts the people who had this particular scroll
commission basically written up
What did they think this was?
And I mean I would suggest to you from a from a very pragmatic physical perspective because
first and foremost
All the density scrolls are artifacts. They're physical objects and we should take that physicality
Very very seriously and we should absolutely be using that
In our evaluations of what these texts were why they were important what they meant
For the people who won't collected them and this looks every bit
from a physical perspective
As significant for the people who wrote and collected this literature as any copy of isiah
Or genesis or deuteronomy or what have you and this is the point
The people who won't collected the dead sea scrolls
the people
Who lived
In palestine the the the jewish communities living in palestine from this period. I would suggest the jewish communities anywhere across
the roman empire
Collected literature
Certainly they collected texts that that survived in the hebra bible, but they collected all sorts of things
Stuff that they probably thought was just as important
Just as an example of saying
Paul's letters for those who come from the christian tradition
Were not written as scripture
They became scripture over time and it depended on the who I suspect
Refer or preferred paul. I'm like, yeah, we like that guy. And so whatever he wrote was sacred
I imagine yeah, this literature to these people was on the same par
Uh of sacredness as you're saying genesis exodus leviticus or any canonical texts that bible believers
You know would have put it on
And it wasn't and yeah, and that's and I think that's the the super important point here is it wasn't just those texts
there was all sorts of stuff
And all sorts of stuff that none of us have ever heard of before
In part because it was lost
To history
But now frustratingly because so few people are talking about it
Like you've never heard about this text before
I am quite confident that
Of the nearly 400 people watching this stream now
Nobody has ever heard of this text before it's gotta it's gotta tie it the editors who who
Wrote up the addition for this text gave it a sexy title. They called it
Uh
apocryphal
apocryphal pentateuk
I think is what they is what they called it. So but this is a fat
I mean, this is a fascinating text because it communicates to us all sorts of things about how they are, you know
Not not just about about what they thought of a scripture was if anything
But it communicates. I'm pretty fascinating things to us about their perspective of their own history and
It tells us some things about how they felt about moses too, right?
right
His messiah the man of god, you know
Uh, the guy who was shrouded in a cloud
But the inachian stuff would have been different. So, you know, you kind of wonder if they're competing sex already here in this literature
You know, that's a that that's an idea that that has been has been
Bandied about for a while now by scholars and I think there's there's definitely something to it that so much of these
Uh, so much of what we call inocic literature, you know texts that
were attributed
To inoc the patriarch
Uh were a type of a Torah
That seems to have been in competition
With the mosaic Torah that there was a an elite
priestly community
You know that maybe at one time even controlled
The Jerusalem temple that wanted nothing to do with the Torah moses and actually preferred
The Torah of inoc
Right, he's right. So
Uh, right
so
that's
That's the second temple by a kid. Isn't it fair to say that the winners
The winners of history became right even if they weren't and this is the same for orthodoxy within christendom
Um
It's like why aren't inachian?
You know, maybe there are some really small splinter splinter sacks of jews out there that are inachian, but it's like
Why didn't that went out? Why did it become rabbinic Judaism?
Why didn't inachian tradition without moses being the central figure become the the version?
Well, they obviously didn't win out in history even if they were at one point in power like you said so
Uh, the same thing could be of the threat of marsian and early christianity as to why we need to like we need to get rid of this
So that our clout and our apostolic succession is the right one and so this is it's like a common motif and theme
That I find within all of this stuff going on, but I I'm fascinated as you are and that's why I wrote my post today
Uh, someone said it sounded condescending and I'm like, well
I'm just being confident and being funny because people run around with confidence that you're going to hell for not believing in these things and I'm like
I'm pretty confident that they're wrong. So I'm literally
In a way bringing, you know, some energy back to that
but um
We have a lot of super chats and I don't know if you want to wrap up
About these manuscripts or if you want to get into the super chats and we wrap up at the end. What do you want to do?
Uh, so I think I I think that that's most of what I want to say today
Um, I do want to encourage people and I'll I'll mention again at the end that if if this is if this is interesting
Or if this is exciting to you. This is exactly what I'm doing in my series
Uh, the Dead Sea Scrolls unapologetically
Um, there's kumran k4
Uh, it uh, you know, I'm I'm I am
Excited and I'm passionate about about what the scrolls have to tell us about the bible and about early judeism
But even more importantly about the religious traditions that that lie behind that and I'm also excited about
About how the history of the discovery of the Dead Sea Scrolls has shaped the way
In which we uh, we think about the manuscripts
So so check it out
I just posted it in the chat
Get in the kingdom before the door shut on you. So uh, subscribe
Go leave a comment. Let kip know you came over from myth vision. It always helps him know. Okay, Derek Derek
Here cool. Yeah, I'm glad to see myth vision in the house
Shane Torres says doctor kip in your opinion is the katif hanum scrolls text
Quoting an actual document numbers or is it quoting a tradition later added to numbers?
It's a very good question. I kind of touched on this a little bit earlier. So we have two amulets
Uh from katif hanum
Which is right in there around, uh, jerusalem
Uh, and they're they're these tiny little little things that are are beaten silver
And they have scratched on them
Text written in canaanite script and uh, I'm not sure if it's both of them. It's certainly one of them
I think it might actually be both
preserve
A form of a blessing that looks very much
Like the erotic blessing that appears in numbers numbers 22 or 23. I can never remember
Whereas the 24 it's one of those
um, but there are some important textual differences too
uh, and um
The the text on on both the amulets. Like I said is is not the same as each other. So
I I think these are very early. They date to the sixth century
Uh bce. So I I believe scholars tend to date them right, you know, right to
basically the the the days before
Uh, the destruction of the city of jerusalem like that kind of thing. So it's it's what we would consider first temple
They're really our only first temple texts
Uh of anything that uh, that survives in the bible
um, I mean if yeah, so yeah, um, so
now
it's
it's um
It's fashionable in some circles to look at these and say oh well
The Torah was so important to these people
That they made magical amulets out of it. They pulled the text out of the Torah and they made these into
It's like these were rolled up little is like a rolled up little amulet
Somebody wore it around his neck or on his body somewhere
Or her to protect them from you know harm or sickness or what have you so this isn't a text that you read it was
It was a magic
object right kind of like the mouth e-ball curse tablet so to speak it's like
Did they read joshua and then make this or is this a tradition in this region or location?
This plays into our ideas about writing too like in this period writing is is
For some people it's about communication, but I would say for probably many more people. It's like magic power
Right and one of the reasons for that is because people couldn't read
um people had these ideas about the relationship between writing and the gods
Uh, and they got and they picked up these ideas because for so long
uh writing was an institution of the priesthood and the royal house and they you know, this is what they did
And you know it played into the they they played up this uh this idea that this is this is
This is part of divine communication, right? So it's a little wonder people thought that writing was magic
Uh, so it was even more important to them that they had like like the text itself
Probably didn't matter
It was it was the fact that it was written on this object and you know the
You know that it was written down was the the thing that was that was super protective for them
So but I have to I have to finish my answer here
So it's fashionable to in some circles to say well this you know this came out of the book of numbers
I think the more sensible way to approach this is that this was um, this was a
a blessing
that
Existed independently was was a a common thing that people would say
Or that was recited or that people would then start writing down and using as
as amulets and over time
Made its way into
The text of the Torah and became part of the book of numbers
Thank you so much for that. I I was thinking of one example and it doesn't completely shift over but I think about
conspiracy theorists who think these
Organizations have all this power because they're left in the unknown
Like the Freemasons. I got a friend who left his third degree masonic bible and his apron here
Um, he's no longer a believer and so anyway, he came and visited to talk about Mormonism
And there's so many people because they don't know what goes on or they don't even care to investigate maybe or maybe they
They've been told something about it
They have this almost like they have magical powers and they're controlling the world and it's not a good
Perfect analogy, but there's more they have more power than really what they do because they don't know
So people who are left in ignorance
Assume more to what the mystery is
Then what really is and I imagine the same can be done by the elite priest
To the this is an idea. This is an idea. Let's not kid ourselves. This is an idea that carries forward
Like, you know, uh, one of the great, you know, this this great reverence that the
Muslims have for the Quran
um
The the reason why?
within Judaism you can't destroy
A Torah scroll you have to retire it and essentially bury it
um
This is where this comes from this idea that there's a special quality
of
You know the word of of the the objects themselves. I remember when
When I was a christian we used to there was always somebody, you know
Coming to to speak to us at church or at bible camp or
Or in college chapel or or what have you and and so often it was somebody
There to make us feel bad about how poorly we were, you know
Uh performing our own our own religion and and I remember distinctly one of these guys coming in and saying, you know
Don't put your bible on the floor. Don't
Don't throw it on a chair. Don't know this is something on top of this word. Don't put something. No, this is the word of god
You you look after it. You take care of it. You you put it on, you know, you put it on the shelf
You put it on a place of prominence
and how antithetical is this to, you know, the
The the the one of the primary
ideas of the reformers
Right that it's not the iconography. It's not the objects. It's it's just it's the the ideas and
Then the substances what's in the word, but it's it some of these things are are really really hard to shake, right?
I imagine too. I mean we hear the stories about
the church chaining the bible to the pulpit and like
That then they didn't even want they put the bible. They made sure it stayed in latin
They didn't want the common folk. They only wanted again that tradition of the priest
To read scripture and then, you know, the reformers thought we need to get this into everyone
especially like martin luther and such everyone needs to read this stuff and
It they started to divorce from that kind of thing
Even though I see it still in Protestantism where it's like don't put anything on top of your bible
Make sure your bible's on top of the thing and like so there's still it's wild
But I I see what you're saying and that's interesting
Thank you kibb
Welsh backgammon
Yay super sticker common. Yeah
Thank you so much backgammon. You know backgammon. Don't you it's a game
You know, it's one of the most ancient games
I didn't know that it it's thousands of years old backgammon. Yeah
Huh, thank you so much. Stephen brag your april fools joke
Yeah, it was great
It pissed a lot of people off I could tell you that much
Uh, but yes, thank you a lot of people like didn't get it till I winked twice at the end
And even then that you could tell some people didn't watch the whole video
So that's their fault that they did that but there were people like unsubscribed and I'm like
Wow, you don't even watch the content. So
Anyway, all the ones in the house just show in love. I really appreciate it doc pluromonot
Does the bible or the biblical hebrew dialect with linguistic updating
Used by both the samaritans and the ahad suggest a possible link
I guess having text outside the Torah like the isaia scroll would be a non-starter for the former
Uh, yeah, definitely on on the
On the on the second part of that question, uh
I I haven't I haven't looked into the like the specifics
Of the linguistic changes. I I haven't spent a lot of time personally in the samaritan penitouk
um
Yeah, only so far as as a
A source of textual criticism. Can you put the the question back up on the screen? Oh, yeah, absolutely because I want to make sure I
Sorry, I got this but I think um
what
From a regional perspective certainly, I think what's happening
In the samaritan penitouk is is is something that's happening
More globally like within within the region with regards to the language and and and how they're using it
So, um, I would say without really without having having looked into this that my suspicion is yes
Um in terms of there being like in terms of this indicating a possible link
I think this is where it becomes more difficult because
What's it, you know, the the linguistic updating is is likely
Something that's happening more naturally and and less intentionally
Um, which is why we would see it within both, right?
They're they're not that far away from each other. They you know, the the samaritan community in and around garadazim
And the people, you know, running and collecting the Dead Sea Scrolls
In uh in kumran, you know, you can get from both places to jerusalem
You know within about a day. So
It uh, yeah, it it's it's
It's I I would say it's possibly related. Uh, not certainly related now one thing that I will
Suggest and here's a you know, a whole other wrinkle in this is um
A sydney white crawford who's done
Maybe more work than anybody on
On on the sorry. I'm a dog
I could hear um
She's done maybe more work than anybody on on the the transmission of the the penitoucle texts
Oh, hold on a sec. Do you want to let the dog out?
Yeah
Dogs needed love and attention to just like humans unfortunately, I'm not allowed to let her out
I have to keep her in here with me. Can I drop the question so we can see the dog? So yeah, you can you oh, there she is
There we go
She was she was looking straight at the face of y'all way too
Um, I can tell she started the news so you could see I know right
Well, I mean she she just got back right
Uh, I I've been you know fading here for I'm putting you full screen. I'll be right back
okay, so um the uh
Sydney white crawford has done most of the work on um the transmission of
the the text of the Torah
in early judyism in second temple period and uh, she worked with immanuel tove on
the so-called rework penitoucle
um
manuscripts
I believe she might have even done uh apocryphal penitoucle the one that I uh
That I showed you earlier. So, um
She has talked about and I think she's onto something here. She has talked about a scribal tradition like a like a scribal school
um that we see
uh reflected in the samaritan penitoucle
And we also see it in um like this this these rework penitoucle manuscripts
And we see it in other texts not related to the penitoucle
Um, but she has she has suggested that that at at an earlier stage that is lying behind both kumron and
The samaritan community that maybe this is a
like a levitical
uh text tradition
um
Yeah, so it's it's pretty interesting
uh, so it would be unsurprising then that
Uh, you know, there's a relationship
Uh between the two the samaritans and and the jews living at the yachat
Thank you so much. Metatron the angel with the six six six
Thank you for showing up
How does the religious practices beliefs and rituals associated with worship of foreign gods differ from those dedicated to yachat?
during the first temple period
so
All we this is a difficult question to answer because all we have
um
All we have to go from here is is a smattering of evidence
We've got what the heber bible tells us of the religious traditions
and rituals
of yachat
But
Most scholars are convinced that these are much later reflections
Of you know religious traditions that probably weren't practice the way that they're described
within the heber bible and on the other side of this
uh, one of the reasons scholars think this
is because
The archaeological picture
Of israel from the iron age
Doesn't look anything like
The way the heber bible describes it, right?
so
I would suggest to you that on the basis of the very little bits of information that we do know
And this is taking seriously, you know, uh the the discoveries on the ground the um
the, uh
artifacts that that that have have
Uh
been found from the period and which are you know clearly related to yahweh worship
It looks very likely that that the worship of yahweh was no different
in um
In iron age israel then was the worship of any of the canaanite gods
That you know, yahweh was properly just another canaanite god another canaanite deity
Thank you. Thank you metatron
M nag in the hizzy
I did not see a question. Thank you for the super sticker
You uh, you achieve true salvation each time my friend jc in the house
Mormon founder joseph smith claimed abraham himself wrote the book of abraham
Now lds scripture in reformed egyptian on papyrus
Reformed egyptian. Wow. He bought that were actually funerary rolls. I think they mean to say scrolls
self-deception comments
So uh scroll is just a fancy word for roll. So oh, okay. Okay. So i'm it uh, no, it's good. It's good. Uh
I mean, um, I mean, I I that's interesting
um
poor joseph smith
It uh, but you know, it's it's wild too, right? How
How much religion?
Uh can propagate and survive amid things that you know, we can point clearly to
To show yeah, this is this is bullshit, right? Right? Um
So it just I think maybe my my comment would be this is this is more than anything just a just a testimony to the
durability of religion as an idea
Um, and this is certainly, you know, the durability of religion as an idea
Uh is is something that that's super important to the the the transmission and development of texts
Uh at any period in uh in the history of any religion
And i've talked to several ex mormons who say finding out that the book of abraham or you know, these different
Problems in Mormonism is really what started to make them doubt it and not believe anymore
But I think it's fascinating. Like you said the durability of religion
I'd go further to just say though the desire for humans to want things to be true
Even if they're not like they want it to be true and this is what i've been saying about christian apologetics
In fact, I think i've got some christian apologists, uh triggered
From yesterday's video. So stay tuned. I'm planning on doing another video response about this and
my just to
Just to build on to that, um
I think one of the one of the reasons why it took such a long time for
For scholars to catch on
To the fact that a bunch of these these fragments in private collections or modern forgeries
Is just this too. There's such a strong
Desire for this for these these artifacts to be authentic, right that for many scholars
I think it it it overrode
their sensibilities
Wow, so even the most elite, uh, of we're all humans, right? Yeah
Everybody is susceptible is the point gettysburg demoniac. Thank you for the super chat. Why are bible translations today relying on the septuagint considering their
There are oldest copies of the old testament
But they are the bible of the eastern orthodox church is the septuagint
So if you want when you go to
Go to the eastern orthodox church, uh, and I mean, so there's a there's there's a bunch of stuff in this in this, um
In this question
Why not? Well, I mean the
The it's not a simple answer to that question, but there's a variety of reasons why I mean the the um, the Hebrew bible
Uh, is clearly not
Uh going to to reflect the septuagint
We don't have any any complete, uh, Hebrew
uh copy
of
Anything that looks like the septuagint. We've got copies
of
Septuagint traditions and texts written in Hebrew from kumran, but these are all surviving scraps and fragments from individual scrolls, right?
um, and uh, you know the
The maserades would have been absolutely loath
This is after the destruction of the second temple. This is after the expulsion of the jews from from roam, right?
I mean absolutely loath
to
Think that any of their writings
Should be preserved in greek. So, you know, that's one side of it
Why didn't the reformers?
adopt the septuagint, you know, I I think
What they were trying to do
Was was to get to what they believed was the purist expression
Of the biblical text and in their minds the purist expression wasn't this
Wasn't what survived in like codex vaticanus or codex saniaticus
It was you know, the
It was what we could find in the or you know in in the earliest Hebrew manuscripts because the old testament was written in Hebrew
So
Well, I I'm not entirely sure how else
uh to answer
That question so our our oldest our oldest Hebrew codices
um
Which would be uh
Leningrad and a lepo
And now this uh, this new one. I don't know if it's actually gone on
The auction block yet, but there's uh, there's another one that's that's uh been listed for sale at south of bees
Um or recently I can't remember the name of it, but so these all date to like the
the 9th 10th century
18
See me and and yeah, they're all Hebrew
And they're all at this point a I pretty solidly fixed text
Uh, the mirrors what uh what we have in our our modern printed Hebrew Bibles
Thank you so much. Gettysburg is back. What impacted the Dead Sea Scroll?
Pesh scrolls Peshers have on our understanding of how prophecy interpretation function and antiquity
That's video for my friend
Uh, I'm working on that now. Um, so
Let's say um
For those who don't know, um
one of the one of the types types of of of literature that were uh
Discovered at kumron. There's there's a number of these copies of texts that that have been
Given the designation pesh or pesh areim is is the plural and pesh are basically mean just means interpretation
um or meaning
And these texts are called this because this is a this is a word that that occurs
Uh consistently throughout them and what they are is they'll they'll cite a passage
From the bible, uh, some of the more famous ones
It was actually one of the very first scrolls that were discovered in 1947 was a was was a scroll of
Uh, I think it's like Habakkuk chapter two and three
um, but then
Uh, it's it cites the text from Habakkuk in order
Uh, but but so it'll cite a few verses and then after that it says pishro or its interpretation
And then what follows is an explanation by uh by the scribe as to what the text actually means
um, and when you just when you
Read through a few of these you quickly come to discover
That uh, what's happening in these texts is not
anything that the uh
Any good seminary teaches about how to do bible exegesis, right? Right?
It's much more akin to reader response
Sort of approaches to the bible and basically what's happening with within the peshareem
Is that it's treating the biblical text like like a special secret coded
uh text
That's actually
About what's happening to us now and they'll treat it like an allegory, right? So
Uh for the people who wrote intact and collected the Dead Sea Scrolls the peshareem are actually pretty useful
For helping us to reconstruct the history of their movement
Because they explained to us
Through their interpretations of Habakkuk and Nahum and Micah and Isaiah and the Psalms
um
Things that they were going through but which they believed were actually reflected in these coded
mysterious
Ancient scriptures. So but this he raises a really good question. Um, is this prophecy then?
Uh, and for a long time scholars are like, no, no
couldn't be prophecy. This is this is something totally different. It's nothing like prophecy
But I mean
It's what they're doing
Right like it is
It's a form of divination
whereby you're looking at these
These you're you're looking at this source and saying
I can predict or or I'm
I am treating this source like it's predicting the future
but then
You'll notice that in some of the peshareem and then you see
the
elements of this same
Technique applied to other texts within the kumran scrolls where they're starting to say
Well, this is actually going to happen still. This isn't something that that happened to us
This is something that we're expecting to happen
Uh, so they're they're actively engaging
In what looks like for all intents and purposes
prophecy
And I'll just say one more thing. What else is really interesting?
About them and what what really attracted scholars' attention early on was how similar
these look
To the ways in which new testament authors treated their scriptures, right? So I mean the book of matthew is
Uh, just rife with this exact same approach
To the biblical text right but then
applied to jesus. I like to use one of my favorite
examples to use
Is because it's it's one people are familiar with in
Uh, I think it's in in matthew chapter three matthew two or three. It's right at the beginning of the book of mark
Um, it appears in all the gospels
Uh, right at the beginning
The gospel author cites isaia chapter 40 verse three which says
Uh, there's a voice crying in the wilderness
Go and prepare the way of yaoi makes take the paths for our god and then the text
applies this image to
um, john the baptist
so
in one qs the the community rule at kumran
They have cited
The exact same passage isaia chapter 40 verse three
but
The way that they're reading it
Without changing a single word in it is totally different from the way that the new testament writers are reading the text
and the way they read it is
in the wilderness
comma
A voice cries out or uh, a voice cries out comma
in the wilderness
Go and prepare a way
For the coming of yaoi makes straight the highways for our god and the people won't collected the dead sea scroll said see
This is talking about us. This is exactly what we've done. We've gone out into the wilderness and we're getting ready
We're getting ready for the coming of uh, yaoi in the last days
That is interesting. Thank you so much for that. Gettysburg again says has a fragment of nea maya been found in the from the dead sea scrolls
No, uh, there have been no authentic fragments of nea maya found in the dead sea scrolls
There have been two forgeries
of nea maya that
uh, there's one in the scoen collection and there is one
in the museum of the bible collection and they're both forgeries
um
but uh
There is there is possible reason to think that even though we haven't found any fragments
it seems
Possible that that nea maya was there and the reason we think this is because there is at least one fragment
from kumran of ezra
and uh
Ezra nea maya
as near as we can tell were two
compositions very similar to the the the 12 so-called minor prophets
Ezra nea maya appears were were two compositions that were always collected together
So by virtue of the the presence of ezra
scholars have concluded that well, you know
this it seems
plausible that this uh, this fragment survived from a larger manuscript that also
contained nea maya
But you know that is speculation. It's reasonable speculation
Uh, but no we have no physical copy of nea maya from kumran
Thank you. Gettysburg
Imnax says are there any other writings in the ancient world that pledge arrives of the stories as much as the bible?
I think not and this is why I was so angry when I started to deconvert. Thank you dr. Kib for the work you do
You're most welcome, but I I would say that uh that um
As I keep as I keep uh trying to nail the plagiarism thing, right? It's you know, this is just what this is just what
Uh, this this is just what ancient people did and when you when you look into it deeply and carefully enough
You will come to discover that. Yeah. No, they the the the jews and and and even the the ancient israelites
If you know, what we have is we can trace all the way back that far the christians
You know, they the the ancient nearest and people were all over we're doing the same thing
Uh, josh likes to talk about how the on zoom myth from sumeria was reconstituted
Uh by the babelonians
Um, you know the the myth of atrahasis was reconstituted by the babelonians
Uh, the we have all sorts of these examples
Prevalent throughout the ancient world and we probably know we would probably see this much more clearly
Some of this is just just by virtue of the accident of
Uh survival
You know the the church and the rabbis
Uh are the ones who who continued to
Copy and preserve their own texts and as a result so so so much
Has been lost to history, but I think you know, it's it's likely it's probably virtually certain
That if we had access to to as much of the the ancient material as we do the bible
Uh, you'd see the exact same thing taking place all over the place
And it wasn't it wasn't something nefarious either
Like I think people need to get over this idea that the the christians or the jews are trying to pull the wool over anybody's eyes
No, not at all like people recognized what was happening, but that's just it right?
This is just the way you wrote. This is what religion was all about. This is what culture was all about
This is the problem though kib. It's and I'm with you. It's once we know what is really going on
it's like oh, but the people who have been taught today by
Christians jews, whoever they may be
They have been told a certain message that message is wrong. So
The reality of what's really going on it will destroy the worldview you had because yeah, you're right about that
Yeah, yeah, I think the Greeks like look at syrapus or even Dionysus is another model of
Osiris and so it goes on and on and on so there's
Borrowing is a better word than plagiarize even though
Today if you're in a classroom and someone said I need you to write a paper authentically through your own research without copying
Every one of these kind of you could find a place where you could as an if you were a professor you'd say
That's plagiarism. Oh, yeah, you know, I mean, but that's but that's that's miss it like yeah, it's it's none of this stuff would pass
um, if you if you if you if you if you churn it in if you you uh
Fed it into the the the the turn it in algorithm that I used to use when I when I taught
All this stuff would come back as as plagiarized, but it's you know plagiarism is a modern idea
um, it uh
Yeah, it um
um
I was gonna I was going to say something else and I I lost my train of thought but you you I get it you get the idea
Yeah, yeah, and I just think figuring that out. It's important court me brown says mid vision is the best
Thanks to all you do always great subjects and guests
Thank you
No duds here guys
huh
No duds here. Exactly. Shane Torres again. Dr. Kip. When was the Hebrew Bible considered canonized or completed?
I've heard some people say early before christ and others said late
I'll be right back
Yeah, okay, uh boy derrick's busy today. Um, and this is I
Really this is this the the problem here is it's it's it's you're gonna get different answers depending on who you're
You're talking to um, and I would uh, I I continue to think one
of the reasons for that is um
Is not not just the not just the the confessional turf protection
That many scholars uh our own beliefs and their own faith conviction
But I think it actually has something to do with the way that that scholars have been trained
As well. It's hard
even if you're trying to be as as um
Uh unaffected by your own biases as you can it's hard to get over those
um
Even with the purest of intentions. So in my opinion, um
I so I don't like the word canon as a as applied to the uh to the Hebrew
texts and and you uh, you you correctly
um
You know added the word completed there
um
I don't think it's something we can meaningfully talk about prior to the destruction of the second temple
uh, and the reason for this is because
There's really nothing
Uh prior to the destruction of of the second temple that we can point to
um, that shows
Any kind of closure or any kind of completion we have
In the way people people there's various ways of going about
um
Figuring this out
Uh, one of the ways is when it comes to the Dead Sea Scrolls look at you know
The numbers of texts that they were collecting the way that they were they were copying their literature what they quoted or cited
provides an idea of of a shape of
What what we would call authoritative?
text or forms
Early forms of something that that's approaching scripture
um other ways to do this is you look at um within the New Testament
There's a couple of places where Jesus makes reference to
the uh the Torah and the prophets
um
And the temptation there is is to conclude that this is you know the entire Torah
Well, he's he's speaking of the Torah of moses certainly
But you know the temptation there is to go. Well, this is the Torah of moses and then the prophets is everything that that the
The the rabbinic Jews included within their collection of prophets
Uh, but again, there's no certainty
um
What the prophets were at this point what was included what was excluded Jesus also talks about David
Which you know probably is some form of the Psalms, but again, this is problematic because you know, uh
Depending on what your copy of the book of Psalms looks like
Uh, how much of it is actually attributed to David David or not is a matter of debate
Another one of the really interesting manuscripts from the Dead Sea Scrolls is is an exquisite
uh
Psalm scroll that came out of k of 11 that
Identifies itself as the Psalms of David like this is this is the collection of the Psalms that David put together
Right. Um, it's not all 150 Psalms
Uh, the the contents of the scroll uh contain only the stuff from the second half of the book of Psalms
and there's open there's there's Psalms in there that that
Don't appear in the Masoretic Psalter
Psalm 153 and 154 are contained in there, which which we know from
The syriac bible, but then there's a couple of other things like something called the apostrophe of Zion
Appears in this manuscript. Uh, it also appears in a in another much older
Um collection of Psalms like humor on two. So it's it's a really really complicated question. I'll say one more thing. Um
Ben sira
was a
was was a
A very influential teacher and writer
Uh from the early second century
Uh bce prior to the establishment of the hasminean kingdom
um, and he
Famously wrote a long poem
um, like a tribute to
israel's ancestors and
scholars have looked at the contents of his poem and attempted to
tease out or draw
Uh, some conclusions as to what Joe
Ben sira's bible looked like
On the basis of what he says within this poem and you know, it it looks very similar to
What survives but of course there are some really interesting omissions
Uh, and possibly inclusions within uh within the contents of of this. So
All that to say I I would say
It's something you can't speak meaningfully about prior to the destruction of the temple in large part because there's so many different communities
Of jews that are doing like their own things
with the text
um, so the completion the hebrew bible is really
um
It's a rabbinic document. So this is something that happened
certainly after
at
Maybe the second century
ce
Thank you
The muslim apologist
What is the current status of the dead sea scrolls and how will future research continue to shed light on their significance and meaning?
Well, uh, the status of the dead sea scrolls. I think he means status of dead sea scrolls
scholarship
um
So it's uh
We're at a point now where the scrolls were discovered 70 years ago
Uh, they have now all been published
Um, and there has been significant analysis committed
Uh to their contents and their meaning
um, what I would say is I think we're at a point here
where
We are very slowly but surely transitioning away from old ideas
about the scrolls and I've talked you know talked a little bit about this today with regards to
You know the relationship to the bible with regards to the relationship to each other
Even ideas with regards to
There's 11 caves in and around the the area of kumran that have been designated
you know
the the kumran caves
Possibly artificially because I'm I mean we have ideas about the relationship of the caves to each other but again
Lots of questions too. Like we're still not certain. So so some of the I you know
The future what the future looks like is is re-evaluating many of these these older connections that scholars used to make
Uh, this is the work that I and my colleague Matthew monger
Uh at mf new region school of theology
Are are starting to do um, and we hope to be doing over the next four or five years
um is is trying to deconstruct
scholarly categories of the scrolls
um looking at them through a lens that takes more seriously their
value as physical objects as as as objects of material culture and see what happens
To the shape of the collection and our ideas about what the collection is and how it's related to the caves to the site
As a result of this, right?
So I would suggest that you know over the next while their significance and their meaning is probably going to shift
You know from the way that scholars have talked about them in the past
um, you know these ideas are are are going to
continue to improve
and to change
As we uh continue to learn more. Sorry. I don't know if that's a great answer, but
No, that's that's what I think is happening
Thank you, and I hope that we can make that trip go
Anyway, we're gonna. Yes. I don't hopefully happen. Ben Jones. Isn't hindu scripture older than judaism. What kind of influence did hindu?
hinduism have on judaism christianity consider the influence of the silk road
I don't know anything about hindu scriptures. So I I really have no idea and
Because I don't know anything about hindu scriptures. I I I don't know anything about any kind of influence
I could have had on on judaism or christianity
um, but in the volumes of reading that I've done
Uh about both judaism and christianity. This is not something that anybody talks about
So I I would suggest it, you know
probably none um
And maybe maybe there's something there. It's not something that anybody has looked into
Um for whatever reason I would suggest probably because there's nothing there
but who knows
And I would I would just my personal response as someone who looks into this stuff. I know later
We definitely have the silk road. We definitely have minikeism
we have
forms of a mixture of eastern
And at that point western ideas because to us it's all the east but to them it's like kind of west and east um
Yeah, you know that that maybe there's some influence
Maybe there's some way in shape or form, but it's I wouldn't say it's nearly as significant as the closest
context of
Yeah, the culture surrounding them rather than the distant ones in india. So that's my thoughts if
If there is I'm absolutely the wrong guy to talk about it. So right because I I just don't I just don't know anything about it
Thank you ben. I really appreciate that set the vahala asks chat gpt learns morality
from
a
Bible the bible what happens next. Yeah, what happens if chat gpt learns morality from the bible?
Uh
Well, I know I so I saw yeah, maybe people caught this
John oliver did a delightful
Um
A delightful story on on chat gpt and the evolution of artificial intelligence and what's
What's happening? I mean, yeah, maybe it's maybe it's terrifying
It certainly seems like uh, like
some of these, um
Son of some of these ai engines, uh develop some some absolutely
horrific ideas
About morality given their own devices and very quickly. So yeah, I don't know. Um, again, I'm probably the wrong guy to ask
I could see I could see some pretty bad stuff. Uh coming out of that
Chat gpt will probably explode because because of you know, all the all the internal inconsistency within a collection like
Uh, do I do this or do I not do this? I can't know if I'm supposed to do this
Right. Oh gosh, like there's no contradiction
Fast-faring boils. Thank you for the super chat some rabbis say the septuagint consistent only of the pentatute in jesus's time
And the other books were translated later. Is there evidence of this?
um
If there's evidence
Of this then it's it's pro it's within the manuscript tradition, which i'm not really familiar with
I know we have we have copies of um
like greek translations of
uh, biblical texts dating fragments little bits dating as far back as the I think either the
The early first or the second century
Uh bce, but I don't know what's on them
And I guess I mean my what I would say is there's there's possibly some currency
uh to this idea
if
um
If can you put the the question back up there for a sec?
um
if uh
If all those fragments are just Torah texts
Um just pentatuc then then you know, this is this is an argument you could make
I honestly I I I have
No idea what the evidence for this is or what it looks like, but I would suggest that's
That's where you would find it
um
but uh
The uh
Um, I I would say though, I I think that's unlikely
um, and I'm I'm basing this on on
Things that I I know pretty well like
um
The book of Jeremiah or or the book of daniel
um, I think there's there's pretty clearly
uh greek translations of those texts that are that are easily
Uh far earlier than the time of jesus
Hmm
Thank you festering a few more and then I'll let you we'll do a little plug here about the upcoming episode you're doing today
Seth of ahalas this chat gpt learns morality from dead sea scrolls armageddon ensues
yeah
Maybe right and then uh
atif atif
Benghish, what's the oldest complete copy of genesis?
the oldest complete copy in
Of genesis would be a greek copy that survives from um
The uh
The codex synodocus from it's the mid mid fourth isn't it mid fourth century?
See so like 350
um, the oldest complete copy of
Genesis in hebru would uh survive from
Uh the
Um a lepo code. Uh, is it in the a lepo codex? It might not be in the a lepo codex. I don't remember
um
But it's in it's in one of those big one of those big, uh tour
A heberbaba codices
From the ninth to the tenth century. Uh, just to give you an idea like we have
um, I mean we have a whole bunch of fragments from the dead sea scrolls dating all the way back to
Uh, the second century bce or you know, maybe even the late third century that have text from
The book of genesis on them some of these fragments that survive look like they come from
manuscripts
Of the size that would have contained
The whole copy of genesis. So I would say that while we don't have a complete copy
We certainly know that there were complete copies this early at least
Thank you so much for that kip shameless plug your youtube. Let's get to 10k. I know this
Yeah, let's do that
Yeah, go subscribe to dr. Kill. He's got more stuff coming out
You'll be tuned for the series on the dead sea scrolls that he's he's gonna be giving
We're doing a course together. So that'll be coming out for sell when that is ready and edited and you can purchase it
Own it for life. It'll be 18 lectures
Probably anywhere from 12 to 14 hours of material
So you will have a lot to chew on I I can't say for sure. I'd have to go back and double check
Once i'm done editing everything I can calculate how many hours
But you've done a lot of work and they can also go to your patreon
And actually get early access to the that's right videos
Yep
And how how many have you already from the beginning in given how many of these you're gonna do?
I don't know. I think it's probably gonna be 20
20 so
Yeah, but uh, but we'll see
Um, it just it just depends on uh, like I've got I've I've I've put together an outline to this point
but I'm just writing it as um
As I make them so I'm I'm uncertain how much how much time or space I'm going to need for
For every every section that I have planned, but I bet it'll be I bet it'll probably be close to 20 videos
so it's gonna be all like it's gonna with with the
With the the amount of time it takes me to make them. It's gonna be I'm gonna be making these for like a year
So but uh, yeah, it's a it's a very long-term project for me. Um, but I I'm pretty excited about it
I mean I've already got uh
three videos and
What is that like a little over an hour?
Yeah of material about about the Dead Sea Scrolls, right? So it's it's gonna be
I mean it's gonna be be like a
Like like taking a course or you know reading like a like a like an introduction introductory book
To the Dead Sea Scrolls
So yeah, uh, that's what's there and I was going to say with regards to the course
Uh in addition to the lectures
um
Derek's lovely, but
uh
brutally
slave driving taskmaster
of a wife, uh
Had me put together
uh
I think I think I ended up with like 30 pages of of documents and a different additional material
Um just for the course and that doesn't even include the uh all the all the the
PDFs of all the all the slide presentations that I use
So which you know are included as well. So there's you're getting a lot
Yeah, there's a and people should go people should take the course
Yes, because it'll make your face shine like y'all way. That's it. You want to shine
Codex sci sciaticus has only 21 22 23 24 chapter. Oh, okay
There you go. Thank you. Thank you. Maybe Vaticanus
Yeah, I don't know. I don't know just contemporary
Yeah, I'm not really sure and then there's
Yeah, Derek Bennett go watch later guys
You're doing this in two hours three hours two hours. Does this say two hours? Oh, yeah about two hours and something
Yeah, two hours 45 minutes. Yep. I'm gonna I'm gonna be joining Derek and
And we're gonna change the world. Yes, please go over and say coming over from myth vision
Yeah, Derek hates me. So I want to make sure that you tell of course. I'm joking
But go tell him here's the link
Go over there and say I came from myth vision. What are you gonna do?
Okay, like what you gonna do about it and that way Derek feels happy because we scheduled this on a day where
He's doing a stream for Derek and Derek says to Derek's today that you're streaming with Derek day
It's Derek day
So oh and people should know so yeah, absolutely you everybody here has to tune in
To to watch me on Derek's channel this afternoon. You are now obligated to do so
On saturday, uh, I am participating with the slavery super panel
Uh on deep drinks podcast. We're going to
We're gonna we're we're gonna get into more of the
Apologetics for for slavery and talk about that. It's gonna be a lot of fun. So that is
This coming saturday. It's gonna be like noon for me. I'm on the I'm on the west coast
so
yeah, and then
I'm going to be on
Jacob Berman's channel history valley
Uh next week. Let me share this one real quick that I'm on this April april 12th
um
And then uh, I will be with uh, josh bowen and I'm pretty sure you're supposed to be there too, Derek
Um on secular soapbox later on this month talking about the uh, documentary hypothesis
Yes, yes, and I'm going to be silent
I'm going to be a lamb going to slaughter. I like I really don't have any expertise on that
But I might highlight something that's something I feel like I have a good skill at
You guys will tune in just to see your pretty eyes. I'm just gonna be like
And then everybody come and see us so I just post a few of those links in the description and keep an eye out on our community tab
We're gonna be I always launch stuff. We've got so much in the works kip. Thank you for your time today
Thanks guys. This was very fun
Uh, no, just um, just subscribe join my patreon
See you around
See you next time
You
Back in washington
Kip davis is getting his first look at a final prized fragment in the museum of the bible's collection
This is a fragment that contains text from genesis chapter 32
and it's supposedly from
The first century bc or the first century c
So
You
You
