Did Jesus really die for people's sins? I mean the narrative sets it up like he is literally
going to replace the sacrificial system. The gospel narrative seems to imply this temple
destruction. We're going to delve into Pauline literature and who the heck is Paul? He seems
like an ancient Benny Hinn. He has this magical way of interpreting the Hebrew scriptures,
whether he was using a Septuagint version, I don't know, but I know that Rabbi Tobias Singer
likes to show you some very interesting things that I missed over and over as I read these texts.
I never for once said, dang, Paul is doing some weird wacky reasoning off of these what
Christians call Old Testament texts. We're going to go into a variety of ideas. A lot of it is
looking at how the book of Hebrews or Paul may interpret some of these things and how is the
New Testament authors using the Old Testament or Hebrew scriptures as you'd like to call them.
And comparing the Hebrew Torah or Hebrew Tanakh, if you will, over with this Greek,
is, did they really corrupt it? Guys, stay tuned. Make sure you hit that subscribe button.
Don't forget to like and comment down below your opinion, your thought or what facts you have to
bring to the table. We are MythVision. Welcome back, ladies and gentlemen, your host, Eric Lambert,
and I brought you back the second coming, the return, the king of the Jews, Rabbi Tobias Singer.
How are you doing, Rabbi? Oh, it's a big pleasure to be on with you. Thank you.
And I love giving messages when I go on here. What happens is that Satan knows this.
So it's Lucifer, but we're not going to tell you. It's great to be back.
Yeah, I'm glad you're back too. I want to go ahead and tell everybody up front. Let's get right
into this because this is super important. I want to tell our audience that the reason why I'm actually
having you on, I'm asking for a variety of different topics we're going to cover.
And I don't want anyone to think, hey, you're just on here just to bash Christianity and Christians.
You have very many friends that you have told me that are Christian. But why is it that you
do what you do? And that might help my audience understand why you're on here discussing why
these things are. Yeah, so my life is devoted to countering the efforts of evangelical Christians
who are targeting Jews for conversion. So if Jews for Jesus never existed, I would never be doing
this kind of work. But given that there are thousands of missionaries worldwide that are
specifically targeting Jews for conversion, I've devoted my life to responding to their efforts
in a way that's meaningful. And I've been doing that for not quite 40 years, but for a long time.
Yeah, and I actually saw a few of your videos and I personally deconstructed from Christianity
for other reasons. But nonetheless, I said, I'd like to have this guy on the show. The show is not
sorry to say it. We're not Christians here at this show. I'm not against Christians. I entertain
people who do believe in God and have Christian ideas even that come on my show. But the last
thing this show actually entertains is anything evangelical in nature. And I'm interested in
secret stuff like is there any celestial mythology? Is there interesting different things that people
would come on? But I actually had an interest with you because I said, I'd watch some other guys
and they said, if you really want to know things that are wrong with other religious views, ask
other religions. So like if you want to know something wrong, let's say with the Muslim faith,
you could ask a Christian or you could ask a Jew and they'll definitely point some issues out
with that particular faith. Not every Jew. I mean, most Jews will go, I am out here.
I'm not this Jew. Go ahead. Just let the show run its cycle.
I'm about to start speaking in tongues here, you know.
I want to ask a very basic. Let's start simple and just let the Holy Spirit overrun the Satan in
this situation here. Why are you not a Christian? Isn't Jesus the most Jewish thing you could be?
I'm being funny, but it's like saying that isn't Bernie Sanders the most
Jewish thing you could be. So there's this no relationship between the core teachings of the
church and what is promulgated throughout the Jewish scriptures. In fact, the core tenets of
the Christian religion are opposed by the prophets of Israel. If there were no Jewish scriptures,
then you couldn't believe anything. The problem that the church always had to deal with is that
its ideas that a person could die for somebody else's sins. I'm going to imagine any country
applying that. Innocent people die for the sins of the wicked. The Bible tells us,
Scripture tells us, Tanakh tells us, Ezekiel tells us, Chapter 18 of the innocent person
cannot die for the sins of the wicked. A man cannot be God. Neither can a statue. Why? Because
the Torah says so. So the core, it's not like I'm anti-Christian, like I just don't like Christians.
So I think it touched upon that. It's that we have a Tanakhah Jewish scriptures that are
filled with prophets that preach the word of Hashem. And the ideas that are conveyed by the
church are utterly incompatible with the teachings of Isaiah, utterly opposed by the teachings
that are found in the five books of Moses. It's really that simple. I got a question because,
you know, you've done a lot of research. You know more about the New Testament versions and stuff
than a lot of Christians that I actually talk to that I know. And it's like, well, if you're doing
what you do, you kind of have to. But my question is, do you agree? I mean, do you separate the
thought of church and the church history of how they interpreted the New Testament versus maybe
the primitive, more first, second century Christians that maybe had their own text there,
the more Jewish sect of Christianity that maybe originally was involved? Do you think,
do you separate that church, their ideas from that? And then what are the problems with the text?
I mean, because isn't it what we're really trying to get after fundamentalist Christianity says,
the text is what teaches us, we got to go back to the text. What's wrong with the text versus,
we know the Catholic Church has done atrocities and just, I mean, you can look at them and go,
come on, man, practically like Greco-Roman Jesus, I don't know, it's weird. But the text itself,
what are the issues with the New Testament texts? You mentioned one of them, an innocent man can
not die for the sins of other people and actually take away their sins. It's like, you're going to
go die for me and I just murdered someone or something. But what other issues with the New
Testament texts would you point out? All right, so I heard two questions here. Number one,
you asked about early Christian sects. It should, like presumably you meant the Abionids and
yeah, groups like that. So first, it should be said that none of the writings of the Abionids
survived. Everything we know about them is from the Church Fathers. And we have an extensive,
we have extensive writings about that. The key is that there's such an evolution of thought,
the Abionids would have considered Paul their chief opponent. So they would have rejected
not only all of Paul's writings in the book of Hebrews, they would have rejected Matthew,
Mark and John because they, those books taught, because, well, let's just say Matthew and Luke,
the Virgin, Martha and so on. They would have rejected so much of this. So we could see the
evolution of ideas even in the Christian Bible. The earliest writings in the New Testament,
the letters of Paul, there's no virgin birth, there's no born in Bethlehem, the same thing
that you said about Mark. Now you talk about changing texts, that's everywhere in the Christian
Bible. The New Testament is quoting extensively from the Jewish scriptures, but it is altering
the Jewish scriptures so that the texts appear Christological. And because virtually no Christian
read the Jewish scriptures in its original language, virtually it's almost unheard of.
So therefore, virtually every Christian is relying utterly on translations and Greek
translations that are given the name Septuagint. And therefore they're completely vulnerable to these,
to these startling mistranslations. We would find the largest number of these quotes
in the book of Matthew. The book of Matthew engages in what's called fulfillment citations,
where Matthew says that not only was Jesus born of a virgin, which Luke also says,
but Matthew says this is not an arbitrary event. But in fact, in chapter one, verse 23,
this is a fulfillment of what it says in Isaiah. And then presumably we're told that it says in
the prophets that behold a virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and they shall call his name
Emmanuel. That's exactly what it says in Matthew 123. When we go back to the original text of Isaiah,
there's nothing like that. The word for virgin isn't there. That's the whole point. The articles
are changed. The passage is completely ripped out of context. Isaiah chapter seven is describing a
civil war between the northern and the southern kingdom. The southern king, there's a king Achas.
I always tell people read it for yourself. And Isaiah is showing him that these two kingdoms,
the northern kingdom, and its alliance with Syria, are going to fail, going to be destroyed.
So this has nothing at all to do with the first century. The word Betullah, which is the only
word in both biblical and modern Hebrew that can convey virginity, is not there. Instead,
the word Alma is there, which means a young woman tells us that she's young and gender. It doesn't
tell us anything else. So Matthew has obliterated the original text. And frankly, you might ask the
question, well, how did he get away with this? How did whoever did this get away with it?
And the answer is they did, and they get away with it today. Christians are still bewildered
when they hear this. And when I'm lecturing, they're Christians of the audience, and I started
quoting these things. They're going in there like shock to hear these kind of these, these very
serious charges. They're not going to get this in charge. And it's important to go back to the
original. So this is everywhere. The Christian Bible is constantly misappropriating texts,
inventing texts that don't exist or completely stripping of a text of what it's meaning. Paul
engages repeatedly, one caveat. Strangely, and this is going to sound counterintuitive,
if Matthew and Paul, for example, did not engage in this kind of scriptural chicanery,
those are very strong words, and I would use a strong word. I just don't have one on hand.
Many more people would have become Christians, many more Jews might have become Christians.
If they would have not played the game of hide the bomb, then many people would have,
more people would have got caught up in this. But by engaging in this kind of, this, this
three card Monday with texts, Jewish people looked at these, these fantastic claims and,
and rejected them utterly because you can't possibly believe in a Bible that's,
that's not that there are mistakes. These are deliberate mistranslations,
deliberate alterations that I'm sure that many of the contradiction New Testament
could be ascribed to simple errors, mistakes, ignorance. These are not, these are deliberate.
See, let's go in. I love this because I had two questions that were coming. I just wanted to
mention and maybe we don't even have to comment on this. I'm reading right now Dennis McDonald.
Dennis McDonald actually wrote a book on the gospel of Mark and others too, like Luke and
Virgil. They're just like rewrites of the Homeric epics and the Iliad and these gospels
really are copying the pagan epics. Okay. So this is another thing that I could get why a virgin
birth would be important in light of a, you know, Hellenized, very Greco-Romanish type rewrite
in this type of context, but back to some of these points. I'd like for you, if you don't mind,
because it's, I've heard it said, some people approached me off air after our last shows and
I figure, well, why not do this on air? It'd be perfect to ask you. They said, a lot of people
were suggesting scholars saying the Septulegint might have, we have older version of the Septulegint
than we do of the Masoretic in, in totality. However, what we found in, in the Proto Masoretic
has been so miraculously preserved, even into what we find in the actual 11th century Masoretic
texts. There's such a good tradition that it's, that it's kept, you know, the Hebrew writers who've
continuously passed these things on and done such a good job. In light of what you're saying that
there are errors, would you also agree though that there may have been a decent version of the
Septulegint? Or would you say there were some slight differences and it got really corrupted by
the time it got, what's your take on this with the Septulegint, if you don't mind me asking?
Yeah, so let's organize a few points. Yeah. First of all, we're using the word Masoretic and I have
a feeling that most of you just won't know what the Masoretic text means. If we would replace
with Masoretic texts with the Hebrew texts, it's much easier to work with it, but I don't want to
do that because I think we need to attack this head on. So the Masoretic text, what is that? What
does that mean as compared to Hebrew texts? What is Masoretic? So it has to turn out the Hebrew
language is a continental language. All the 22 letters in the Hebrew alphabet are consonants.
There are no written vowels originally. Right. So imagine a sentence in the English language
where you just took out every A-I-O-U and sometimes what, you would just strip that
out of the text and all you have are consonants. Well, that's what Hebrew is. That's how Hebrew
is originally. However, in the 7th, 8th century, there were efforts to create a written system
to supply for the continents, to supply a written system of vowels and also trap
in the musical notes that are written in a synagogue in a written form. So that's what
a Masoretic is. Masoretic text is the Hebrew of the text, but then it adds in just dots and lines
and that tells you how to pronounce it. Until that point, until let's say the 8th century,
7th, 8th century, it was an oral tradition. People just knew that this is what goes, this is the
vowel that goes under this consonant underneath this letter, but it became very important. It's not
hard to figure out why the 7th and 8th century, we times, people say, we need to get this in a
written system. So all the Masoretic texts is the Hebrew letters and then in addition, the vowels
which don't interfere with the letters go beneath it above and so on. Our oldest complete Masoretic
text, the oldest is the Leningrad Codex. That date is 1008. The earlier Codex we have,
it's not complete, it's the Aleppo Codex, very famous, let's say 930. That's what we have that
has survived. What has survived is very tiny compared to what, of course, what once existed.
Now when we go back to the Dead Sea Scrolls that were discovered by accident in 1947 and then
subsequent caves would be uncovered, so while we're talking about consonants here,
because this is the Dead Sea Scrolls, are essentially 1st and 2nd century BCE. So there's
no Masoretic, those vowels, no one's ever produced that to that point. So it's strikingly similar.
There are mistakes in the Dead Sea Scrolls. Sometimes the scribes, we see correct with a
racial word because it was not spelled correctly and corrected, so sometimes there are some errors.
But what is very striking to any person studying this topic and the most important
aspect of the discovery of Dead Sea Scrolls is how the Hebrew texts we have today is
virtually identical to what we had in the 2nd and 1st century BCE. That's enormous. So
that's what's conveyed. Now the Greek part. So there was a Greek translation made for
what is today Egypt told me in around the year 256 BCE. We have an enormous amount of sources for
this. This is known as the Septuagint, the LXX. This was only of the five books of Moses. So we have
this everywhere. We have Josephus, Latter-Earth, Thalmud, you name it, it's everywhere. We know
this happened. That doesn't survive. That's a proto-Septuagint that doesn't survive. We only have
15 quotes of it in the Thalmud in Tractate Megillah 9a. That's it. That's all we have.
Subsequently, there will be people be producing translations of the Torah and the prophets and
writings in the Greek language. After all, there was so many Jews who were Greek speaking in North
Africa for sure. And there will be just numerous translations that will be produced. Just like
today, there are so many translations in the English of the Bible. NIV, EV, P, whatever. Well,
the whole American standard, New American standard, it's everywhere. That's what was going on. They're
producing it, but there are different kinds. There are some word for word, some more dynamic.
The point is that subsequent translations would not take a new name. They would rather
seize that old original name that everybody is familiar with, exactly the equivalent of the King
James Version. So imagine when the NIV is translated, that's 20th century translation,
they said, we're going to call that the King James as well. Well, that's what was happening. Now,
we have copyright. You can't do that today. Technically, the Queen owns the copyright of
the King James. That's what was happening. So all the subsequent Greek translations are called
Septuagint, but they're not the Septuagint. That Septuagint never survived. This is the rub.
What happens is where the rubber hits the road. This is the rub. This is where you take a deep
breath in. What Church Fathers did, and most importantly, origin, was they produced a Greek
translation that would bolster and support these mistranslations in the Christian Bible. So if
Matthew is misquoting Isaiah 714, they'll go into the Greek translation of Isaiah 714 and
interpolate the word for virgin in the Greek to back up the mistranslation found in Matthew in
that case. Now, sometimes they forgot to. It's like, you know, when thieves go into house, they want
to get rid of fingerprints. I don't know if I don't remember if they use, what are they,
use ammonia, bleach or whatever it is. Who knows, whatever. If you know the answer, it's not a good
idea. It's not a good sign. I know exactly. Sometimes the people just don't rub down. They
don't clean all the fingerprints. So we have numerous examples with the Christian Bible mistranslates
Tanakh, and they never changed it in the Greek. So the Greek doesn't help them. So that's the story
behind it. So we use the word messer at the church. We just took it in the heat. We want to use simple
words. We use the word Hebrew text with the vowels. That's it. So okay, because I want to get down to
some of these things. I tried to have Dr. Bob, Robert and Price come on the show, and I was like,
Dr. Bob, if you could, can you show us some examples where the New Testament purposely
is like literally changing what the Old Testament's saying? Now, we didn't get into these examples. I'd
love to do a show where we just like point out exact examples, because that's what's really,
you're catching them red handed, right? Like you gave us an example in Luke four.
Now, someone commented on our video and said, that example is found, I think they said in the
Septulegene or something. I can't remember, but they quoted something and they were saying that
they had found that that isn't the case, that it does say giving sight to the blind or some
right. That's the point. Okay, brilliant. Thank you. This is this is where this is the this is the scam.
If we go to Luke chapter four, verse 16, 17, 18, 19, go to that text. Jesus, we are told, goes into a
synagogue and reads from the prophet. He's reading from the scroll. And he is reading for Isaiah
chapter 61. The point is that Jesus is not reading from the Septuagint. So it's not true. It is true.
It is so true that the Septuagint, whoever did it, I know you'd have to do a lot of forensics,
whoever did it went, we've got to make Isaiah 61 look like Luke chapter four. So they stuck it
into the Septuagint. That's absolutely correct. What people fail to do is go back to go back to
Luke itself. So Luke reveals displays for everyone to say that the Greek Septuagint actually is was
doing the scam. That's right. It's in the Greek Septuagint and it's not in it's it's of course not
in the Dead Sea Scrolls. We have the great Isaiah scroll, the great Isaiah scroll, which is on
display for everyone to see in the not just in the Israel Museum, but if you don't want to get on a
plane, you can go online. You have the hallways of the great Isaiah scroll from Cave One.
This is second century BC. Right. Old enough for me to yeah. I'm with you. Yeah. This goes back to
your bar mitzvah. You could see Isaiah 61 is there. It's not in that there's no giving site that we
know what happened. And the Septuagint, the fact that it appears in the Septuagint illustrates,
the point. The Septuagint is a scam. And it's it's also ridiculous. The Septuagint has
not just translations of supposed translations of Canary, but the Septuagint also has translations
of apocryphal writings, the wisdom of Solomon, which is not non canonical and almost certainly
was originally written in Greek. So what is it? A Greek translation in Greek? So the absurdity of
all this is just so many problems with the Septuagint. But I don't want to get into mistakes.
These are these are these criminal stuff. Very, very easy to do the forensic summits.
Okay, so that's better spelled out than the first time I feel and anyone who has an issue,
of course, take it up, you know, leave a comment or I don't know, write me, let me know your issues,
whatever, that's fine. But I see what you're saying. And here, I guess, where I was wanting to go
in a way and try to prove a little deeper on this is that is there evidence of differences that are
like evidence we have of a Septuagint version that goes prior to the first century that supports
what we're finding in the New Testament. However, it isn't matching what the Hebrew version is.
So technically, kind of where my point was to make it simplified, I guess, for our audience,
and maybe make the question easier. Were there different sex, like Christianity,
is obviously not Orthodox in nature, the way that you would view your version of Judaism,
for example, is there sex of Judaism that maybe stemmed out of a Septuagint version
that had gone into a different type of traditions and used their Septuagint version
coming up with what we start to see in the New Testament? Or is the New Testament just
something you're saying in a second and later? It's obviously paganized. I mean,
I know that's part of it. And I'm trying to simplify it. But is there a Septuagint prior
to the hands of origin that I'm trying to say supports the New Testament anyway?
Yeah, of course. Of course, you have the these texts didn't survive. In fact,
origin's text doesn't survive. We don't have that anymore. We have quotes from it, but it's gone.
Just so the viewers understand this, origin was probably the most brilliant Christian
in history. He was a genius. He was a teenager and he was just writing. Jerome, this may be an
exaggeration, but Jerome says that origin wrote 2000 books in his life. He had secretaries all
around him. So origin was a flat out genius. This is a third century church father was a brilliant
fellow. He had people writing scribes, just a brilliant guy. But most of what he's written
doesn't survive today. But he's quoted widely because he was so he just wrote so much. Now,
are there I want to get to the earlier translations, Greek translations.
Please do. Yeah. Yeah. So you have the Greco-Roman world. You have Jews who were Hellenized who
had adopted ideas that were part of the Greek world and Greek thinking. And it could be said that
they would be producing Greek translations that would alter some texts, but not in a deliberate
or grievous way just to expand it to open it in the way that they viewed made sense, I presume.
Let me rephrase them. If let's say you hired me to translate Tanakh into the English language,
I would have to
insert so many words in order to make it readable because Hebrew and English are languages of
two different species, two different families, just so different. And if what I'm saying
appears strange to you, take any text that has Hebrew on one side and English on the other.
Look at the size of the letters. Just take any verse. Count the number of words in Hebrew. Count
the number of words in English. Probably three times the number of words. You've got to supply
all these words because they're implied in Hebrew. So I'm not suggesting that there weren't other
translations that did everything they could to make it more readable and more readable maybe in the
genre that they understood the text. That you would have to do. The King James, and the King
James didn't invent the system as a prior system. I think it was the Bishops Bible that first did
this. The words that are inserted that are not in the original are Nitalics. Why? Because they're
not in the original. So the King James and the... I think it was the Bishops Bible that preceded it.
Use that system as many others do. So that's all fine. The problem with the Septuagint that you get
on Amazon is that that is a Christian product. There's so many alterations. I think the
viewers need an example of this. Let me just give you an example. Let's take a crazy example.
All right. So Jeremiah 31. This is just a warning here. This is not really important,
but this verse, if you're using a Hebrew Bible, appears at verse 30. And in the Crucifixion Bible,
it appears at verse 31. They're just the chapters that are cut differently for reasons that are
completely not germane to this. So Jeremiah 31, verse 31, 30 and 31 says that days are coming,
sayeth Lord, they make a covenant with the house of Israel and the house of Judah. Not like the
all covenant, I made of them when I took them out of Egypt, although, although I was a husband to
them. That's basically the text. That's really essentially two verses. If you're using a Christian
Bible, this will appear as Jeremiah 31, verse 31. Now, the book of Hebrews, as it turns out, quotes
this passage. If you had a Christian Bible and you look at Jeremiah 31, 31, it would tell you in
the footnote that this verse, Jeremiah 31, 30, 31, 32 is quoted in the book of Hebrews, and it is.
In the book of Hebrews, yeah. So the book of Hebrews is essentially one large argument against
Judaism. That's it. The reason why the book of Hebrews was written is to oppose the Jewish faith
and to show how all of us really point to Jesus. That's what Hebrews is. In Hebrews chapter 8,
this is conveyed explicitly, where in Hebrews 8, we are told verse, you'd start with verse,
just do you have a Bible in front of you? I do. I'm ready to read it. All right. So look at verse
9. It says, not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers on the day that I took
them by the hand to leave them out of Egypt because they didn't continue my covenant,
and I disregarded them. Something like that. I regarded them not. Yeah, declares the Lord. I
rejected them. I rejected them. Okay, right. So that's Hebrews 8 verse 9. Now, I didn't
dare sneak into your house or whatever you're using and change anything. That's what it says.
If you open your Hebrews 8 verse 9, this is not, you know, I'm not David Blaine. This is not a
magic show. Now, what I want you to do, can you hold that place and go to Jeremiah
31 verse 31. Okay. Okay. And then you have the same text, except for a major alterations.
Jeremiah 31 verse 31 or 32 depends on what kind of Bible you're using. Yeah. Tell me when you
have it. I don't want to, you got it. So it says, not like the covenant that I formed with their
fathers on the day they took them by the hand out of the land of Egypt, they broke my covenant,
although I was a husband unto them. Bam. The original texts is in Hebrew. I was their husband.
I was their lover. This is a constant theme of Jeremiah that God was the authentic husband
of the Jewish people. And it's using adultery that the Jewish people had failed God at critical
juncture. So it's a spiritual adultery. So the text in Jeremiah 31 says that I was a husband to them.
I was their lover. Hebrews not only, it's not like Hebrews has like a different color or
different saturation. Hebrews rapes the text. And I'm using that word deliberately rapes the text.
Because that what Hebrews says is I just regarded them. Yeah, I rejected that. I don't see a husband
at all in here. No, of course not. Because Hebrews eight wants you to get this. Listen,
like you never listen in your life. Hebrews wants you to whoever wrote this book. And it's not that
late. This is a book written almost certainly in the sixties. The author of the book of Hebrews
wants you to believe that the old covenant has been done away with the old covenant with Israel
with the Jews is gone has disappeared. And whatever is old is essentially vanishing. Now,
if you think that's my spin, if you think I just don't like Christianity, I'm making this up,
that's exactly what Hebrews says. So Hebrews eight verse nine, we read that and that's a quote from
Jeremiah 31. Hebrews eight has 13 verses. Take a look at the very last passage of Hebrews eight.
So now we just move from verse nine. Let's go to verse 13. Okay, you want me to read it or
you got it? I'll do it for you. Please. In that that he said a new covenant, he has made the first
one old. Now that which decays and waxeth old is ready to vanish away. Whoa, that's exactly what it
doesn't say in Jeremiah 31. So what I want to convey is this is not like you were talking about
could there have been earlier Jewish sects that may have altered it, colorized the text in Greek
translations. We're not talking about this is boring. So they had this type of view that's
not interesting. Of course, World War Two is taught in schools in Russia and the United States.
Divinely in Russia, they'll talk more about that. I get that. This is changing the whole text. That's
violating. It's raping the original text. Is this in both? What I mean is this is the actual
Hebrew version and the Septuiligent version that we have not the church one year since you're saying
or even let me ask that like the Septuiligent in the Hebrew are they on the same page and this
book of Hebrews is no, no, the Septuiligent covers it. The Septuiligent is there with a long black
coat going. Come here. Just look at my Septuiligent. I'm all good because the Greek in the Septuiligent,
the Septuiligent has it. I reject them. That means the Septuiligent was shaped was molded
to support he the author of Hebrews is mistranslation of the book of Jeremiah. Okay,
now I'm going to give you in another one. Okay, just a future later where whoever did the Septuiligent
doesn't didn't make this cup didn't cover this. They messed up. They like right. They didn't
to hear the Septu this is an example. I know you're loving the start. Did you know this? Yeah,
I know. So this is an example where the Septuiligent was whoever did it did a good job. That means in
the Greek in the Septuiligent, it conforms with Hebrew. So Hebrews is covered by the Septuiligent
as it turns out, the King James and and every Christian Bible follows the Hebrew doesn't follow
the Septuiligent on this. I mean, you open a King James in Jeremiah 31. New Americans doesn't make
a difference which one you all of them back up maybe with wanted to back up the Hebrew.
They don't side with the Septuiligent on this just really so interesting.
Okay, so that's it. I mean, that's all right. That's an example. We're going to go to
we're going to go to another example. I want to go stay in the book of Hebrews,
but I want to go to Hebrews chapter 10. Verse five. Okay. Okay, going to Hebrews 10 verse five.
King James like you were talking about or just don't matter. It would make a difference.
It would make no difference at all. The King James. Yeah, yeah, go for it. So first, I want the
viewers of this show to understand the context. Okay, what is Hebrews seeking to do? Hebrews
wants to explain why there was ever an animal sacrificial system and
and what do you need Jesus for? Right. So Hebrews is conveying that essentially the entire
sacrificial system that exists of the animal sacrificial system in the Jewish scriptures
is essentially foreshadowing. That's an idea that you find in. It's a Pauline idea that essentially
what you find in the Jewish Bible is only a shadow of the few the shadow of of of Christ,
the shadow of Calvary, the shadow. If what I'm saying sounds weird to you means you've never
been to church. This is I know all about the types of shadows. Yeah, you're shadowing. Everybody's
a shadow of the shadows here, the shadows there. You know, it's I think Christians are inconsistent
too when they come on the scene and they say, well, the New Testament prophecies, you know,
this is a fulfillment, but that's even just a shadow of the real fulfillment is to come. And
I'm like, sorry, if anything was supposed to happen, this is my opinion, it didn't. But
nonetheless, that's a whole different show anyway. So but yeah. So Hebrews 10 want you to know
that essentially that God really never wanted the animal sacrificial system, but it really was
all about Jesus. The whole animal sacrificial system is about Jesus and it quote from the
Jewish Bible. Hebrews 10 first five sacrifices and offerings you did not desire. Whatever,
I don't know how you're turning it. But a body you prepared for me. A body you prepared for me.
What is that body? Imagine I was sitting in front of a church of 10,000 people. Everyone's
screaming Christ. Now, if you have again, not the stuff you're always ripping off from the
Holy Inn, but a decent Bible that actually has notes, it would tell you just so you know, I
it would tell you in Hebrews 10 verse five, that this verse is found in the book of Psalms,
chapter 40 verse six, just so you know, here again, in a Christian Bible, it's verse six,
in a Jewish Bible is verse seven. That's the verse. If we if you hold Hebrews 10 five here
and then go to where it comes from. So going into Psalms, Psalm 40 verse six.
And I always pronounce things wrong, by the way, my septula gent that everybody hates me pronouncing
it. And I literally just rest with an L in the middle. Anyway, I'm here. Psalm 46 through eight.
So 40 verse six, verse six, the verse six, that's there it is sacrifice and offering. Thou did not
desire. Mine ears hast thou opened. Burnt offering and sin offering hast thou not prepared, not
repaired. Stop the show. The text here says sacrifices and offerings you did not desire.
Uznaim kharisoli in Hebrew. My ears you have over me. King David is speaking.
That God, King David repented of a very great grievous sin in 2 Samuel 12. So and God forgives
him without any sacrifices. That's the context. This is a theme in the book of Psalms that's
repeated. It's not you'll never hear this in a church. King David says sacrifice and offerings
you didn't desire, but my ears you open for me. Okay. The book, imagine you take those words,
you put it on a huge screen, you take out your trackball, you select in the words,
but my ears you have opened for me. You have now white letters on a blue background,
you tap the delete key, they disappear, you then type in, but a body you're prepared for me.
And the question is, where did you get that from? How did you get a body of prepared for me?
How does my ears, the old man, the body appear to me? How do you change my Bible? How do you
so? This is not a mistake. I would submit to you that there's tons of mistakes and like acts
that are just simple selling mistakes. So the author wasn't familiar with the geography of the
land of Israel, whatever. This is not that. This is not act seven. This is this was a deliberate
alteration of the text to convey to you that the whole animal sacrificial system was all
pointed to Jesus and the fact that Jesus died, we don't need the sacrificial system any longer.
And again, I want you to be sure that the context is applied. If you go down to Hebrews 10,
just go down to verse 18. The author conveys that in fact the animal sacrificial system is done
with that Jesus is the final sacrifice and there will be no sacrificial system in the future.
That's the point. Yep. I mean, this the whole point of Hebrews 10, it really starts much earlier.
The point of it is all these things of the past animal sacrifice is all pointing to the future,
the Jesus, because these authors also need to explain why did you need Jesus for want to just
keep the animal sacrificial system? Why don't you just keep that going? If what you need is the blood
of bulls and goats and without the shitting about there's no atonement Hebrews 9 22,
then why not keep it? It worked perfectly. So he was conveying the how then could the blood of
bulls and goats at down for that it was only a temporal system. It's all point Jesus all
point of the cross. It's all point to Christ. It's all point to God. It's all point to look again,
if you grew up in Jerusalem and never met a Christian life, maybe this will be foreign to
you. If you had any, if you have been to church in life, then what I'm saying is normal. Yeah. This
is this is every Sunday common sense. Yep. This is standard. So now we could see how this was
produced. And that is the Hebrew scriptures would just it's not it's not would just stripped,
ripped apart. And this is the reason why every Orthodox Jewish child in an Orthodox Jewish school
anywhere in the world is learning Hebrew. The age of three, four, five, six, every Jewish
now there are some Jewish people who are not observed. There are many Jews in the conservative
woman that are reading Hebrew too. But in the Yeshiva, every child, every religious Jewish school
in the world teaches children Hebrew. And they all could read it like a newspaper. It's very easy.
It's not like English with a language of nearly a million. This is a very small language. Virtually
no Christian child is taught the Hebrew language in school. There are in California, in Texas,
in Kansas, you how many Christian schools there are? I couldn't count them to none of them.
There's no Christian child who's learning Hebrew. They may in some prep school learn Latin. I don't
know who what is this? What How is this useful? Learning Latin? Why don't you learn the language
of the Bible? They learn Greek, but not Hebrew. So the Jews are just some smarter. They're taught
the Hebrew Jews read out of a Hebrew Bible. There are translations that we produce because
there are many people convert Judaism as an adult and so on. It's available. But Christians have no
access to the original text. And therefore they really think Christians really think the Jews
are blinded. Right. That we're demonic. There's something wrong with them. Why do the Jews and
then they use this word, which is there, you know, I'm not making this up. They use this term like
why do the Jews deny Christ? Right. Like, well, what is that see him? I mean, he's in your your text.
Now, Rabbi, I got something that because my my channel talks about the historicity of Jesus
and this really strange thing. I saw a post earlier today. I mean, for crying out loud,
they had a man. Okay, I get there were sacrificial systems in the world where where animals were
sacrificed for people's atonements and such. Okay, but why would you go from we have an animal
sacrifice? Okay, this guy, and this is one of my big red flags as well. This historical man comes
and he comes on the scene. And then you apply the sacrificial atonement system all onto this one guy
who supposedly existed in the 30s, which is weird to me. I'm still an agnostic when it comes to
whether he existed or not, even though I hear both sides and I hear the good arguments, just
really weird. Why would they apply that? I discussed this extensively in volume one of what's kept
up alone. Okay. It's it's it's transparent of what occurred here. You had a person who was
semi tinner and preacher of sorts who had some small following in the gallery. And there are people
who came to believe that he had some probably some very important role to play. These beliefs would
have been completely disconfirmed if he was executed by the empire by the Roman Empire. And the only
reason you'd be crucified is for treason against the empire. Or else they didn't waste their time
with crucifixion was to make an example of him. So people came certainly found that to be appalling
and just walked away from it. But other people came to say, Well, he was a completely innocent
person. He surely wasn't killed to anything he did. He must have died for what somebody else did.
Now, that idea is alien to Judaism. But that idea was so widely believed in the pagan world.
That's why in the in the pagan world, whether in Central America, Zinzil,
Aztec, you name it. Right.
Virgins were sacrificed. You know, I'm a diver in Mexico has some gorgeous reefs. And they have
there the old Aztecs and Mayan altars where they found thousands of girls, young girls,
who was so beheaded. Why did the ancients sacrifice babies, pass them into a fire tour, warns us
about that. And virgins like what let's stop and think so as babies and virgins were killed in
order to appease the gods. So let's think from what do babies and virgins have in common? What
do they convey? Innocence. This is this is not is not rocket science. A baby or the baby so innocent
a virgin she's innocent. That's what virginity conveys. So the idea in the pagan world that was
so deeply incontinent is that a virgin had to be sacrificed to appease the gods. And then us
people who are not virgins or nothing like babies, then the gods will be satisfied with it and
forgive us. So what you have is this is an ancient motif, an ancient theme that the the innocent
had to die for the sins of the wicked. This idea is so alien. I'm tossing what do you this idea
that the Torah constantly says, never do this, don't pass you baby to the fire, don't kill babies,
don't don't the innocent person cannot die for the sins of the wicked. The wicked person, if
that person will repent, he will surely be forgiven. In what universe will you would have that the
19 hijackers of 911, they would be set free, but will kill 19 old ladies in Nebraska. So
we should reject that kind of thinking. Tanach is opposed to these core
tenets of the Christian faith, so we're making a full circle here. So the ideas of the Christian
religion of is very powerful stuff. And I want to just for another thing, and I've never spent a
second as a Christian, but it's become very clear to me that there's something very powerful about
someone who's willing to die for you. You know, in your life, has anyone betrayed you? I don't
need you to answer that question. I guarantee people broke your heart. And I guarantee you Derek,
the people who broke your heart would not care shares on Walmart. They weren't strangers. There
are people who really close to you. Those are people who, you know, when you've been betrayed,
how valuable were the people who didn't betray you, didn't turn their back on you? How valuable
were those friendships to you? Very important. You began to, as he got older, you began to go,
wow, good friends are stood by me. Those are the people I really love. The family members who
betrayed me. So that is very attractive. Someone's willing to die for you to give his life for you.
God so loved the world that he gave his only because that's where it comes from. So understand
this Christianity is very attractive. This is the reason why it's the largest religion in the world.
Huge. It's not it has something very appealing. I'm not a smoker, but I presume that people smoke
they're enjoying it. People who take heroin, they must love it. Whatever happened, it must be
people who are alcoholics. I feel so bad, but it must be fantastic to be drunk. But it ultimately
will kill you. The Torah is saying there's no question. These things will a great pleasure
or a pork. I never ate it. I'm sure bacon must be be will do. I'm not going to I'm not going to
comment. I don't know. I'm told that shrimp and lobster is unbelievable. It never had it. It looks
like a big cockroach to me. Right. To me, it is. But people tell me, oh, this is the most you don't
know Rabbi. The Torah is not saying that these things don't taste good. Don't feel good. The Torah
is only saying this will destroy you spiritually. Just like a doctor, doctors are going to say
smoking or doing drugs doesn't feel good. No one will tell you that crack must be unbelievable.
Right. The Torah is only saying it's going to kill you. It's right. And the ideas that are conveyed
in the church, no one's suggesting they don't transform people, make them feel good. Of course
they do. All these religions do or else they wouldn't get off the ground. The Torah is only
saying this stuff is going to kill you. And how do we know it? Because the God of Israel told us so.
So I wanted to ask you, you gave a couple good examples in the book of Hebrews showing, look,
guys, it's obvious there's changing here. Now, my question is this. Do you think, and maybe you
can give us some more examples like what you found in the book of Hebrews, because I know you have a
lot of these, I'm sure. But do you think that the author's motives were not bad, that maybe
they really believed in what they're actually writing and saying? Because I just interviewed
someone that this is totally, you know, irrelevant to the topic here. But Dr. David Skirvina, and he
believes that Jesus was a hoax. He flat out says Paul was an actual liar, not just that he like
did little like white lies for his own agenda, but like the whole thing is a hoax. And I wanted to
ask you, do you think these authors really believed what they were writing, like the book of Hebrews
and other books, and they thought they were really right about this? And if so, why would they think
that? So I know it's a lot of questions in one. But I, you know, I don't have access to texts that
viewers have. I don't have secret texts that I have access to. I can't, I'm not a psychiatrist.
Right. It's, it's, it's abundantly clear to me when reading Paul's letters, especially the
Indisputed Lord is a Paul, that Paul was at war with other Christians who had a different
Christology. What I'm saying is, is very clear, because in virtually all Paul's letters, his enemies
are Christians, being fellow believers in Jesus, who had a different Christology. And that's who
he's battling with. He's not battling with traditional Jews. And it's very important to Paul
to convey, as an example, that he is right in his information of the truth, and he has it from Jesus
Christ directly, and he's a super apostle, and he's the smartest guy in the class, and he's a Pharisee
and he told Peter to his face. This is Galatians 2, Galatians 1, Philippians 3. No one disputes
that these letters are from the hand of Paul. And he is saying that what he has is superior to the
apostle in Jerusalem. So I don't, you don't need me to go, what do you think? Who cares what I think?
Who cares what Toby is saying or the thing? Paul, very transparently, is in the first two
chapters of Galatians, wants to demonstrate why the apostles in Jerusalem do not have the authority
that he has, that his credentials are the best. He's bulletproof. So you have somebody who just
is fighting with everybody. He won't travel with Mark. He won't, he's fighting with Peter. He's
calling Peter a hypocrite in Galatians chapter 2. This is not Tovious Singer saying that Peter
is a hypocrite, because he behaved one way when he was around Jews, or another way around Gentiles.
This is in the book of Galatians. This is, why would Paul need to say that he told Peter to his face?
So this is not like what, who cares what a Jew in Jerusalem thinks. There's not what I think.
Paul is so unlike the Gospels, which are, which you have to tease out. It's, Paul is very
transparent what he's doing. It's, Paul, it's like playing poker with him. His cards are,
his whole cards are open. Everybody can see what he has. He's, there's nothing hidden.
It's all very transparent. There is no Christian scholar in the world that would disagree with
what I just said. That Paul is seeking to demonstrate that his Christology is true
against to, against other Christians. And then he marches in the book of Galatians chapter 3,
which is the critical chapter where he goes, who be, which do you, you Galatians? Meaning
you're listening to the other Christians that you need to look and then, you know,
four or five, six and explosion. Forget about it. So I, you don't need to ask me,
what do I think Paul, would you want to hang out with Paul? No, because Paul was a guy who just
didn't get along with the people around him. Paul had to be first. He had to be, I have it directly
on and no one else. And who is he pounding against? He's pounding against the premier apostles.
He has it over James, a brother. He has it over, over Peter. He's got it directly. So
you don't need to, you don't need my opinion on this. It's very, the other thing is that Paul had
no problem just smoking through the Torah, meaning all through and getting any way that
he sees fit. Let me give you another example, which is so transparent. I don't even understand
how anything, I'm beginning there. The Torah is very devoted to that there should be justice in
the world and that we should treat others properly. The Deuteronomy chapter 25 is that we have a lot
of this, including animals. There are many prohibition at Torah of causing pain and harm,
the causing an animal pain. So much so, the Deuteronomy chapter 25 verse four, the Torah says
that when an ox is threshing, you can't muzzle the ox. It's a prohibition from the Torah,
that the animal is working in the field and it's surrounded by the stuff it loves, its food.
You can't cause the animal that anguish to muzzle it so it can't eat the food that's around while
it's working for you. It's so simple. What happens? Paul doesn't like that so much.
If you go to 1 Corinthians chapter 9 verse 910, Paul says this. He quotes this passage. You may
want to look it up for yourself because it sounds too crazy to believe. Paul goes, closes
this passage. 1 Corinthians chapter 9 verse 9. So just so you know that I'm not inventing this,
that I'm not reading it out of context, that I'm not. Tell me when you got it. Paul then
there quotes Deuteronomy 25 verse 4. And he closely says in the law of Moses,
do not muzzle an ox while it's treading the grain. And then he asks, do you think God cares about
oxen? What? And then he's going to go on to verse 10. He really means that you support missionaries
of the church. What? So imagine I would stand up and I would say, do you think God cares about
oxen? No. It means you should send me Tovey Singer donation. You go, where the heck did you get
that? What are you doing? That's Benny Hind stuff. That's these preachers that people have no respect
for. What do you need? What kind of theology is that? That's some oral law that Paul invented.
How do you play with my body? How do you say, do you think God cares about animals? He literally
asked, do you think God really cares about animals? I didn't put it in there. I do. I think God really
cares about animals. How do you like that? That's why we're only allowed to slaughter an animal.
This keeps bringing me back to something, Rabbi. These people like Paul, they're doing something
so weird. I'm not trying to be funny and I don't mean this disrespectful to Christians even,
but Christians do it today. They look at their newspaper, the end of times is about to be here,
Donald Trump is the 666. There's always weird stuff that they do and they apply the principle
to themselves. They might even reinterpret something to make sense even from the New Testament,
not just the way that the New Testament does it for the old. But it's like this weird, mystical,
I want to apply something and redefine what that context is to my own circumstances
right here in the New Testament. That seems to be what Paul's doing, even if he has to flip it
on its head completely. Yeah, God's concerned about the oxen in the Old Testament, but here's the
thing. You think he cares about the oxen? Isn't this really about us? Right. You should be supporting
us. If we can go a little further, this will totally, I mean, I really hope you're sitting down.
If we just go a few verses later in the same chapter that Paul says, I just want you to understand
how I convert people. In chapter 9, verse 20, same chapter, just go a little further. He says,
Let me explain to the Jews, I become a good Jew, that I can win the Jews.
To those under law, I become like I am one who's under law. To those who are not under law,
meaning the Gentiles, I become like them. I can become all things to all men so that I may gain
some. What is that? That's a chameleon. That means whatever I need to become, this Philippians 118,
whether in pretense or in truth, the Gospels preached. It means I will shape myself and mold
myself to fit whoever I'm talking to. It doesn't mean that I'm going to speak Chinese instead of
Spanish. It means I'll become like them to sell it. You don't need to be a psychiatrist. I don't
I have a theory. The Gospels are much more because the Paul's letters are likely to be
less chained, these letters in particular, less of the Gospels are layers and layers that you
really have to tease out. It's very interesting, but it's not as simple as Paul. Paul is very clear
on what he's trying to do here. Paul is not the guy you'd want to have dinner with.
You know he's fake or you know he's doing whatever he can for his agenda.
You've ever been to a party and there's one guy who's got to be it and you can't, that's Paul.
When I drank alcohol I was like that, but yeah, go ahead.
And one other thing I want to persuade the viewers. It is inconceivable that this was
invented later. It's inconceivable this is not authentic. If Paul didn't write this, why would
someone come along later and insert Paul's calling Peter Hippocrates? Why would he make that up?
Why would he make up Paul being so disagree with fellow Christians? I mean it's embarrassing
the church. That is the most, the most, that's the most, it's a method that is the most,
that is so easy, that criteria of embarrassment that is so reliable. It's inconceivable that
someone would have made this up later. Like I believe a lot of stuff made up. I don't think
the prologue in John was written, whoever wrote John 1 through 1 through 18, I don't believe
wrote John 2 through 20. I don't think 21 was written, but Paul is very clear what's happening
here. It's very transparent. You don't need theories on this. Rabbi, if you don't mind,
as a Christian when I was like a firm believing Christian, we talked about only one place and
you'll definitely get where I'm coming from with this is like taking our viewers who might be
not familiar with the Christian worldview, but most of them probably are that are watching.
The only place I recall contention between Paul and Peter that I was taught at Sunday school
was when it got to circumcision. It was the one place when Peter and Paul, you know, Paul watched
Peter be a hypocrite. He calls him out, you know, to his face and he says, listen, you, you know,
you're of the circumcision and then you're not, you're playing games, you know, making himself
look good, making Peter look bad and saying he's been a hypocrite. That's the only place
the church ever told me there was a problem between those two men. And what's crazy is
they later on say, you know, Peter, Peter realized he was wrong, you know, like Peter,
Peter come around, you know, Peter had been duped once before. First you have the epistles,
you don't need that. You have the epistles of Peter. I don't believe for a moment those were
written by Peter, but that's the whole point of the epistles of Peter is to say, oh, we're all on
the same team. Yeah. Moreover, that's the point of the book of Acts really is this poor acts written
for many reasons, but one of them is say that everybody's on the same page and everyone was
there for the Ecumenical Council where everyone gathered together and then these questions were
raised and everybody agreed. That's why Acts 15 exists to later explain what did they get along
or didn't and the epistles of Peter are there to say that Paul was preeminent. It's there to explain
that all the way that everyone was on the same team and there was no problem. The earlier letter
of Galatians that you bring up, you brought this up before, you know, James is sending spies, I think
Peter's one of them to spy out Paul's freedom in Christ as Paul calls it. Why are you doing that?
And then why is Paul saying anyone who teaches another gospel other than the one I teach,
let him be a curse, let him be anathema? This sounds competition. This sounds like a problem and
like you said, these books come later to fix it. Right. And it's inconceivable I would submit.
It would be torturous to believe that somebody later would invent this stuff. I mean, this is
embarrassing. This is embarrassing that Paul was, that there was tension between Paul and the Jerusalem
Church headed by James, that the Jerusalem Church would have to call Paul in and say, what are you
doing? Circumcised Timothy, we hear that you're doing away with the law. And it's not, there's no
surprise that the circumcision of Timothy is never mentioned by Paul in his own letters. That only
appears in Acts. So I want to convince you, the viewer, that there's no way, I mean, it's just no
sober mind could believe that some scribe added that there was a war between Jerusalem and Paul.
And originally that wasn't in the letters of Paul. It's inconceivable because that's embarrassing.
And it's everybody is covering that up. I mean, everybody's trying to explain later.
Let's just say especially the book of Acts. Certainly the best. So how could you believe
that was made up? And Paul is in Galatians 5. He is, you talked about circumcision.
If you believe this is the Word of God, so you believe it. So in Galatians 5 and 6, Paul is
it's a screed against circumcision. And circumcision is the model for keeping the law.
And in chapter 5, Paul literally said, I'm paraphrasing a drop here, but you can open up
chapter 5 Galatians 1-12. He says, if you really want to do that, why don't you just cut the whole
thing off? Oh, yes. That's really like God. God said that. Like this is the Word of God. Well,
God who tells Abraham, circumcise yourself and your children, your family and
and really, really God talks that way. He said, why don't you cut the whole thing off?
What? What is that? That's gutter talk. I mean, what is that? That's that's a guy throwing a tantrum.
Yeah. Cut the one. Why don't you castrate yourself? We just cut it all off. If I talk that way to
somebody, I think, you know, someone who I pose and I said something that's such gutter talk,
I think people would lose respect for me if I talk that way. This is Paul talking. I'm not,
I didn't go into your house and put it in there. Really, really Paul's the Word of God. God is a
psychopath. God is schizophrenic. The entire, the Jews are committed to circumcise himself and he's
referring to, he's referring to the Jews as the children of
of Hagar and Christians and these Gentiles, the children of Sarah. Really? Really? That's the
Word of God. This is the point. I think that people believe that I might be anti-Christian. I
just look at these texts and I'm shocked by them. Christians defend this stuff. Right. I understand.
That's it. It's just, there it is. Rabbi, let me, let me, because I'm with you. Like,
I'm with you 100%. You know, when it comes to this stuff right here, it's like, to me, I'm seeing it
for what it is and I'm, yeah, I might be looking at books like Acts and stuff as cover-ups. Yes,
I do agree. I'm 100% with you on that, on that page. But there's reasons why we can date these
books later and it's not just these, oh, well, gotta make sense of it. Let's try and make sure
this thing works. No, there's more to why the book of Acts is dated later, etc. Something I
wanted to ask you about Paul and maybe his motives. I know you mentioned earlier, you're not a,
you're not a psychologist and you cannot read minds, but previous guests, I tend to sometimes
have like a guest on before and then it influences something I think about during the conversation
I like to ask other guests. David Skirbina, Dr. David Skirbina says Paul's motivation
in his understanding was to try and get as many people to come in to go against Rome. He believes
that Paul actually was against Rome. I thought Paul was for Rome by many of my guests who've come
on pointed out clear like pro-Roman, high to the house of Caesar, you know, like it seemed like
Paul was like getting in close with the pagan rulers of his day and wasn't really true to
the higher ups in the Jewish, I guess you'd say the people who are in control of Judea and
he wasn't on their side, it seems. He's going off to the other side. Now, this whole getting rid of
circumcision message, it's not going to work. This, I mean, this pro-circumcision message
isn't going to work to Gentiles. So obviously he has to change his message up. Is there anywhere,
like you could give me any thoughts on what Paul, you think his motivations were and why he was
doing it? I just want to say, I want to speak directly to this. The Roman Empire was eclectic
and the Roman Empire, as long as what you were doing was not subversive, they weren't
fundamentalists. The New Testament also is very kind to Rome.
Rome is never held accountable for Jesus' death, and the Jews are. And in
Pilate, the Empire, their culpability is jettisoned and all the culpability for Jesus' death is on
the Jews. I'm not just straight away. The oldest book, the oldest letter in the entire Christian
Bible is almost certainly 1 Thessalonians. 1 Thessalonians is widely dated to 4950. It's very old.
1 Thessalonians, chapter 2, verse 14 through 16, says these words. This is so old. That means,
this is, in most Christian Bibles, 4950. That's how old this is. This is older than
1 Corinthians. Even as they have of the Jews who both killed the Lord Jesus Christ and the
row prophets, and are contrary to all mankind, forbidding the Gentiles to bring the gospel.
In Canada, if you would say something like that, you'd be thrown in prison, as you would in
Austria, because actually, laws on the books that you hate speeches is illegal. In the United States,
it wouldn't be. But you would be so outside of sight of you ever said anything like that in
the United States. So here, the entire responsibility for the death of Jesus is completely on the Jews.
The Jews are the enemy of all that is good. I mean, look, anti-Semitism, these anti-Semites are
not crazy. If I would read the Christian Bible without any nice guy commentary on it, I would
hate me too. People who think the Jews control the world and are basically the authors of evil
on the world, they are, in a sense, Luther, who is a virulent anti-Semite, the father of the
Reverend Jesus. And people have no idea how much he hated the Jews. Luther was completely rational.
All the reformers hated the Jews. All the church fathers did. What they were doing is reading these
screeds against the Jews, showing the Jews control everything. Part of the Bible was
basically a victim of the Jews who control the banks and
Hollywood and stuff. Where does that come from? Because you could see in the Gospels and the
passion narratives that the Jews are totally controlling Pontus Pilate and getting him to
do what Pontus Pilate wants nothing to do with them, washes his hands of it. I have to ask you
on this while you mention this. Of course, people join the cool, cool clan. Do you think, I had to
poke this real quick here while you said this, because I've heard this said, do you think they
really had influence on making Pontus Pilate crucify a man named Jesus? Or do you think this
guy had to have done something to Rome and there was no money in the bowl trying to force him or
threats? I don't know. We know a lot about people who got crucified from Josephus.
We know a lot about it. People were crucified because it didn't mean that the empire had
the kind of judicial system the United States does and was examination. The empire believed
that you were a threat to the empire. That was it. There's a reason why the Roman empire
lasted for so long. It was very, very successful empire. If you were subversive in any way,
if they thought you were a threat, you were crucified. This is not controversial and therefore
if Jesus was crucified by the Romans, and I don't have a reason to to disbelieve that,
he would be one of roughly 200,000 Jews during the first century who were crucified by the Romans.
That's very unremarkable. We know it. We know a lot about this. You were not. If you committed
murder, you would be excluded from the empire. They wouldn't be spending all that money on
crucifying you. They were petrified of any subversive activity that posed a threat to Rome. Period.
That was it. There are other crimes, of course, but that was religious issues,
was very rarely a problem. There were some emperors who did persecute the Christians.
There were some going diacletian all the way through. Certainly, probably Nero did. We have
some, I'm sure of it. But there was a sense, if we read the earliest preferences to Christianity,
let's say by plenty of the younger, that Christians were gathering illegally and having these
getting here. The empire fell out to be very subversive, very dangerous. That dates back to 112.
That is what got you crucified, was the empire thought you were a threat. This is not complicated.
I agree with you wholeheartedly on Paul. I didn't mean to interrupt. I just had to get your thoughts
on that because I had this idea that, well, let's try and explain why Pontius Pilate crucified this
innocent guy or some explanation will be conspired and forced him. But side note, Paul obviously,
it appears to me, he's against the Jews over and over. Is he a Jew himself? Or is he claiming to
be one? But he's probably a Herodian? What do you think? I'm going to let you check after the show.
There are a lot of books on this, a lot of stuff on this. There are some theories that there are
some scholars who believe that Paul was really not Jewish. That's definitely not the consensus.
The best book on this topic, which is amazing read, is a book called The Mythmaker.
The subtitle is something like Paul and the invention of Christianity. It's written by
Menem Chaim, H-Y-A-M, I think, Makobi with two C's in it. He passed away a number of years ago.
He advanced that idea. I think that Paul, it's very clear Paul was a Greek thinker. He came from
Tarsus. Tarsus was one of the, let's say, three centers in that period for a Greek reflection
and thought, not Jerusalem. No one thought the way Paul did. This is maybe why Jerome thought
that Paul came from the Galilee rather than from Tarsus, because Tarsus would have been embarrassing.
So Paul's writings are not phariseic at all. Although this, I know for the viewers are going,
what? But I'm told he was a pharisee. That's because that's just the way people are repeating it over
and over again. But when you go through Paul's writings, nothing about Paul, his description
of the resurrection of the dead. That's completely Greek. He's thinking about the law. That's
entirely Hellenized. Paul would comport and the Gospels would fit very well with a Hellenized
thinking, not with Judaism. Now, he is certainly using the Jewish scriptures, as I've shown you,
on numerous occasions. Now, why would he know about the Jewish scriptures? Why would he know
about Jewish traditions? So think about today, here, just this one point. Everybody, Judy,
the Jewish people, how many Jews are there in, well, 15 million? How many of them are Orthodox?
I don't know, three million? As it turns out, Judaism is just about one of the most well-known
religion in the world. In fact, the majority of the world's population relies on Judaism as its
foundation, as its basis. People are most familiar with Orthodox Judaism. When you think about what
do Jews do, you're not thinking about Bernie Sanders. I'm not thinking about a Jew who's
observant. You can probably know about Shabbat, know about Chanukah. All these are Orthodox.
Now, the word Orthodox is only a couple centuries old, but I need to use conventional language.
So as it turns out, people knew about the Jews, and the Jews were very important in the Greek,
in the Roman Empire, people knew about and wrote about us. That's what people know, just like today.
People know, people know much more today than they knew in the ancient world, but people knew
these traditions, people knew about the law, but they were Hellenized, they were influenced. Was he
Jewish? Probably was. He fits very well into one of these radical Jews who really not Orthodox in
any way, but are familiar with the text, and the familiarity is not depth here as it's often
presented. It's still depth there. It's just quoting misappropriating text throughout the Jewish
scriptures. That's it. That's actually, yeah, that's interesting. When I talked to Dr. Bob recently,
he was saying it appears like he was misquoting on accidents sometimes and stuff, but if you delve
deeper into some of these contexts from you, this is why I really think we should do a Paul show,
a particular Paul show. You can bring the ammunition with you to show in depth some
Paul's theology and some of the issues you're finding with how he's quoting Old Testament.
That would be a great show. Would you be interested in doing one?
Of course. I mean, we're essentially doing this because, I mean, we're doing this now, and we
certainly are be glad to continue that. Paul is the most important convert to Christianity,
and without Paul, Christianity would have never taken off. Paul made a iteration of Judaism
palatable to the Greek mind by using their ideas and using a rough Jewish thumbs catch.
That's what we've been doing today. Although Hebrews was not written by Paul, whoever wrote
that book, and it's a very well-written book, whoever wrote that book would have got an A plus
from Paul. It's Pauline. It's the same kind of thing. Paul is there to explain how it's all
pointed to Jesus. Number two is he, this is something that people miss. He is trying to explain
why the Jews don't believe in Jesus. This is a problem. Why do the people who expect the Messiah
can read the Bible? Why don't they believe in him? Either they have a different view or they're
they're blind. They're veiled. They're scales. They're second Corinthians three and four.
That's what Paul is explaining. Dr. Rabbi, that book that you were talking about, yes,
I put that inside of the link down below for anyone who's watching. It is going to be accessible
on the Amazon link down below, as well as Rabbi's books. So you guys be sure to go down there in
the description. You guys can check out the books. You need to get it. I've got a copy actually
right here. Let me grab it because it's really pretty. Hold on one second.
All right. Now, I know you don't like spending too much time talking about this, but you've
got to get these books. They're really big, easy to read. Volume one and volume two of
Let's Get Biblical. So you guys can hear a lot of what he's saying here. I mean, obviously,
you don't talk about a lot of necessarily the Paul stuff here, but nonetheless, it's obvious when
you go into Tanakh, he's going to show you why this is a total contrast to what you're seeing
in the New Testament. And I definitely can't wait when I have some downtime to delve through the
whole book, but I just barely scratched the surface at the beginning. And I really am a
very big fan of yours. I appreciate what you do. I really love the generosity. I know that you have
no ill intent. But look, this is what the world does, right? They poke at systems. They poke at
your system. Your system might look and say, Hey, your Christians have got things off. And
you're the only one that I know of. I feel like it's good to have you around no matter what
someone believes, especially if you're not a Christian. Of course, Christians aren't going
like you because, you know, what you do is try to defend Judaism and show why it's the truth
over Christianity. I favor guys like you because who would I call who practices Judaism, who believes,
who is a firm believer, who is Orthodox, who's going to come out and outright discuss issues
with Christianity? Like, there's who am I going to call? It's not the Ghostbusters. So I had to
call you and I'm glad that you exist. I think it's important that men like you exist, because this
is a valuable and very important tradition, heritage, everything. And you're pointing out very
obvious things that even though I'm not a Christian anymore, and I'm not a Jew, I'm not a practicing
Orthodox Jew or anything like that, I see the same things you see in the New Testament. So I know
that I'll get stones thrown at me as well by pointing out the obvious. And I just, it's cool
seeing you come on and say the same thing. It's not like because you're a Jew, because you're not a
Christian, that you have to see the same things and say something. This is, I agree with you on
these things. Like, there's something wrong here. And anyone who's watching this, most of my audience
agrees, like Derek, you're preaching to the choir, because they all agree there's something wrong with
this. So I really appreciate you joining me, though, Rabbi, and look forward to more.
It's a joy. I really enjoyed it, Derek. And I thank you so much for having me on.
I do, hey, you, we're going to hang out one day and we're going to record it. And I'm going to come
to Israel and we're going to do in-person hangouts and do some recordings and stuff. I'll meet some
of your family and friends and it'll be awesome. But anyone who's watching, go subscribe to his
channel. If you haven't already, you guys can see some of the stuff. He gets pretty confrontational
sometimes. He's very kind, but there's some stuff you need to see on his channel. So make sure you
go subscribe. That'll be down in the description and write me some questions. You guys have some
tough questions. This Rabbi is willing to take them. So thank you, Mr. Tovia Singer Rabbi. I
appreciate your time. So cool.
