Alright guys, Derek Lambert here, your host with MythVision Podcast.
I wanted to take you guys down a little bit of a rabbit trail.
This is just going to touch the surface.
There's no way I'm going to be able to go over all of this without boring you guys
to death.
I want you to get as entertaining as possible, so please bear with me, but ultimately there's
the idea of a mythicism that is a midrash idea.
We've had Christopher Hansen come on our show and he's even said, as a historicist,
he said the strongest argument he could see is a midrash type idea of the New Testament
being a copy of Old Testament.
I am pretty convinced that the literary device of the New Testament is an absolute copy of
Old Testament, but not just Old Testament.
It may be also copying contemporary sources of historians to invent this narrative.
For example, the three men who died on the cross, Josephus, in his autobiography talks
about his three friends that are on the cross, he gets them taken down, two of them die under
physicians' health and one of them survives by the physician's health.
So technically, three men on the cross, one survives, Jesus survives, the two other die.
We're going to go into some parallels.
I'm going to avoid as much as I can the text itself to not bore you.
We're going to go and hijack a bunch of Christian sites because I say it's very important.
Christians do a lot of the legwork for us because these scriptures are what they believe
and so because they are firm believers in the text, they're textual believers, they do
a lot of the legwork on finding how these texts parallel and how do I put this?
They're looking for the types and shadows that connect to Jesus and in doing so, these
Christians do a lot of the work on seeing Jesus in the Old Testament for us.
There's versions of mythicism that show, kind of like the Doherty thesis, that the pre-existent
Jesus, pre-existent Christ, well, that may be the angel of the Lord.
If that is the case, awesome, if it isn't, oh well, I'm just going to show you guys
and gals watching as much as I can how Jesus is just a rewrite of Old Testament characters.
To me, the odds, it's possible, there was a historical Jesus possible.
I'm not convinced though, I'm not convinced at this time, I need more than what we've
been given and I could see people literalizing something that was allegory, I literally could
see that.
I could see versions of this allegory being literalized and marketed to try and convince
people of a certain path, in my opinion.
I think the Old Testament's full of allegory and even Philo of Alexandria, 1st century
Jew, historian, also agrees that it's allegory.
Now, I went to this website right here, Bible.ca and then all this stuff after, I'll put the
link in the description so you guys can come here with me, I just wanted you to take notice
of this, Joseph, a type of Christ real quick and it says, you know, the seven years of
plenty and the seven years of famine, right?
There's two sets of seven.
Well when you look at Paul's ministry, I want you to think not just in the Gospels but also
think Paul.
How much of this goes into Paul too, because many people go, oh the Gospels, duh, we know
the Gospels are fictional if you're that far in your research.
But what about Paul?
Well, especially in Acts, it talks about him working 17 years laboring to get into the
ministry.
Here, 14, two sets of seven.
Notice the theme of two sets of everything too, in this story.
Everything from, there's twins, you know, Esau and Jacob, Judas children, which is, Judas
children is Perez and Zelpa, I think.
Perez and Zera, okay, so there's twins there as well, and this is all within like the Genesis
30, I think Genesis 30, all the way to Genesis 50.
Also Jacob serves for 14 years to get Rachel.
He really serves seven, but you know what happens after seven, it restarts, it's a repeat.
In account, you have seven days, Joseph was the seventh son of Jacob.
Jacob bore children with, let me turn to this page here, Jacob had children with Bilhah,
which is Rachel's maid, because she can't have kids.
So Joseph is technically the first born child of Rachel, but she couldn't have kids.
So how did she have kids?
A miracle.
Oh, virgin birth with Jesus, miraculous birth, Rachel, and Jacob was 90 years old, which
is like, whoa, that's a miracle in itself.
It only mentions seven of the sons here in this Genesis 30, I think, or 31 passage, seven.
Where are the 12?
It only says seven.
And it ends with Joseph being the seventh, the perfect one, perfection, seven has that
number meaning complete or perfect, that kind of thing.
Joseph is, and his name means he shall add, interesting.
And Jacob is, you know, renamed into Israel later.
But follow me with this narrative and see if Jesus is not Joseph.
And if he is, why does he, why is the New Testament doing this?
What's the purpose?
Are they really writing a history that's just borrowing Old Testament?
Are they rewriting an Old Testament story, an Old Testament allegory, so to speak, story
into modern context?
Are they really talking about a real guy in the first century here named Jesus?
I don't know.
It's hard to tell.
It's hard to tell what's going on here.
So follow me if you will, and I'll try and take you through some of this stuff.
By the way, the two sets of seven, you also have two sets of dreams every time.
Joseph had two dreams that the twelve stocks or sheets will bow down to him, and then there's
the sun, moon, and the twelve stars.
Two sets of dreams.
He also interprets the dreams of the baker, the wine man in the dungeon later, and that's
two sets of dreams, right, these two people.
And then Pharaoh.
Pharaoh has two sets of dreams.
He has where the fat cow, the skinny cow, and then I think he talks about the sheets
too.
I can't remember, but it's two sets of dreams.
Let's go into some of these parallels, guys.
I'm just going to surface through.
Thank you, Christians, for doing all the hard work of trying to see these connections.
If you really want to delve deeper, I'm probably going to have to write something at some point
in the future where I connect these and try and make it as entertaining because it could
be bogged down really quick into a lot of details.
Miraculous birth.
Jacob was 90-year-old.
Rachel was barren.
Mary was a virgin, okay?
This is the parallel here.
Both truth and exposing sinful behavior of others, knowing he would be hated and ostracized.
This is what we see going on here in the New Testament, and Joseph is talking to his brothers.
Both were shepherds.
That's a simple parallel, but it is a fact, according to the stories.
Beloved sons of wealthy fathers, okay, so Jesus is father in heaven, stored riches,
so he's a rich father in heaven, hated by his brothers without a cause.
We know that's obvious in the New Testament, and what I like when you look at the New
Testament reference here, you'll notice it'll start to bring in a lot of Paulian literatures.
We go further.
You'll see.
So, the idea that Paul's using this Old Testament text maybe needs to be further reopened and
saying, is this Paul a real historical narrative as well?
Something to consider.
Just throwing it out there.
All right.
Let's see.
Hated for telling the truth and prophesying.
Before told a future exalted position as king, I looked at that text and it just says that
he was a dreamer.
Now, it could give the notion that he's going to be a dream by his dreams when he told his
brothers they're going to bow down.
That kind of gives you the idea that you're going to be a king.
Okay, I can follow that kind of mindset.
Both parents treasured in their hearts the news that their children would be a future
king, persecuted out of jealousy, willingly went at father's request and authority, and
that actually also is that the father sent him on a mission, right?
Jesus said he was sent by the father.
Same crap.
Okay.
The same things going on in both stories.
How much of this is history again?
Lived with father before set on divine mission, ridiculed for being a king, and it's funny.
Lived with father before being set on a divine mission, and John, we know that's the most
glorified version of Jesus in the gospels of John, but nonetheless, it's the idea that
he existed with the father beforehand.
He was with his father, and then he came down.
That's what mythicists are saying that is possible on this Jesus.
He may not have actually been a man, but he may have come from heaven idea, and this is
what this narrative is trying to say, and of course, he becomes you hemorrhized and made
into an actual historical person, not trying to rabbit trail.
All right, ridiculed for being a king, okay, king of the Jews.
We know Jesus was obviously ridiculed for that.
Genesis 3719, go check it out.
Plotted against by his own brethren.
We know that happens, and it's very interesting when the plot happens that Judah is the brother.
If you parallel, you notice a lot of Matthew references here.
Go to Matthew 27, open Genesis 37, read both of those accounts side by side, and you'll
find out real quick.
Judah is Judas.
It was his idea to sell Joseph into slavery.
I think it was the Ishmaelites that he sells them into slavery for, and it's interesting
also that these Ishmaelites, I can't remember what the type of people they were, but they
had myrrh, they had, let's see what they have, fast forward to here.
They had spices, balm, and myrrh, okay?
Those are burial custom scents and spices and stuff, okay?
Joseph of Arimathea has the same stuff when he buries Jesus.
He has these spices and myrrh and all that, and it's a burial custom, so why is Joseph
being sold to people, and why is that detail being mentioned in Genesis 37 that these men
are carrying burial ritual spices and stuff, why?
It's interesting.
I think there's a death going on here, some type of death.
So it's the Ishmaelites, okay?
And if you look at Mark 15 and John 19, you'll see that parallel.
Now, said to Joseph, then let us see what will become of his dreams, said of Jesus.
He trusts in God, let God rescue him now if he delights in him, for he said, I am the
Son of God.
Now that's Genesis 3720, Matthew 2743, the brothers are saying, let God save him, alright?
And the whole time you're thinking, that's it.
Well in the New Testament, when you hear that, they say that when Jesus is on the cross,
you're thinking, dude, he didn't, he didn't save him, right?
Because he died.
Well, he resurrect, oh, so now you've got to wait till there's a resurrection.
So there's a death here somewhat, and then there's going to be a resurrection.
And the funny thing is, the brothers throw him into a pit that has no water.
The parable of the rich man and Lazarus could be very tied into this right here.
I think there's some doing with the northern and southern tribes during some type of captivity
or possibly the division of the northern and southern tribes of Israel.
I think Genesis was written later, and it might be talking about some of this stuff
in this story, but what you find is, there's no water in the well, and he's going down
into the pit.
Well, Jesus talks about going down into the pit.
He gives a parable of the rich man and Lazarus, and what's the rich man want?
Just a little bit of water.
He's in this pit, and he has no access to water.
It's like, there's nothing there to drink.
And so he is redeemed from that.
He goes into the pit, and he saves the captives, sets the captives free, Jesus does.
I think there's some parallels here.
Nothing necessarily is in chronological actual order every single sense of the way, but the
parallels are overwhelming and obvious, and I think that this is a copy of the story.
So they say, let God save him, and later on, they recognize that God does according to
the story.
He suffers, or they suffer bitterly at the hands of brethren.
Well, that says that in Hebrews 12-2.
They stripped him of his robe, Genesis 37-23, and John 19-23-24.
Technically, they take him of his clothing.
Does that mean he's naked?
Probably.
They did the same thing with Jesus.
Okay?
Judah offered to sell Joseph 20 pieces of silver.
Judah, and the Greek, is Judas, who sold Jesus for 30 pieces of silver.
Interesting.
And then, of course, the New Testament, that's not just in Matthew 1, 2, 3, I think they may
have put the wrong reference up.
Matthew 27 talks about this for sure.
And it mentions the selling for 30 pieces of silver, and how Judas throws it back on the
temple ground, and then they pick it up, and they say, well, we can't spend it in the temple.
We'll buy a field for it, because this is money bought for blood, and I guess there's
probably law against that.
But another interesting point about that is that somewhere in Jeremiah, Matthew says that
it fulfills a prophecy saying 30 pieces of silver or something.
Because the author of the New Testament is intentionally copying Old Testament stuff
to make this a fulfillment.
They're purposely doing this to make this a fulfillment.
Suffered bitterly at the hands of brethren.
Oh, we already went over something like that.
Oh, I already passed that.
Okay.
Sold for slave price in pieces of silver.
Hmm.
20 pieces in 1900 BC, 30 pieces in 33 AD.
Inflation.
I don't know about that literal, I mean, that could be the case, but I don't know if that's
true.
You look it up yourself.
Leaders attempted to rescue him from the hands of brethren.
Reuben was eldest.
Pilot.
Okay.
Okay.
So leaders attempted to rescue him from the hands of brethren.
That's interesting that Reuben and Pilate are connected here, because I looked at Matthew
27 myself, and I'm convinced at this point Pilate and Potiphar have a parallel.
If you look at Potiphar, Potiphar is a governor or he's a chief or something of the, let me
look at this here, Potiphar, hold on, Potiphar is an officer, pharaoh and captain of the
guard.
Well, Pontius Pilate is a Roman governor under emperor Tiberius, and he's a judge.
Hmm.
I wonder if these two men who are in place of power, who end up receiving the Joseph or
the Jesus, are playing a part in the story and notice the brothers sell to the issue,
the Ishmaelites, the Ishmaelites sell to Egypt or sell to try to give off to the Egyptian.
Well, the brothers or those who chief priests, whatever, that sell Jesus off actually give
him over to the Roman authorities.
So they never, they're not the authorities that keep him.
They give him away secondhand him, if you will, middleman him to another authority,
which ends up being Pontius Pilate.
And of course, Pilate throws him to Herod, Herod and Pilate, they kind of do the thing.
Now let's go back to the parallels here, because I've done repeats of this video, I can't
tell you how many times, and there's so much information I've had to restart this video.
So hopefully this conveys what I'm trying to say and you guys can follow what I'm doing.
Two leaders acted as judges, Reuben and Judah, Pilate and Herod.
Huh, that's an interesting parallel I didn't catch the first time.
Others finally gave in to peer pressure and went along with plot, that makes sense too.
Goat blood was sprinkled on Joseph's coat, Jesus our scapegoat, Passover lamb, goat
lamb, had his own blood sprinkled on his own coat.
Passover animal could be goat, and it gives you a reference here, false story of his death
told and deceived many for a long time, animal blood on coat, disciples stole body.
Hmm, interesting.
So there's a false story that the body was stolen according to what they're putting
as a parallel here.
It is interesting that they all thought, or at least the father thought that the son
Joseph was dead the whole time, however he's alive and well in Egypt.
I want you to also pay notice, I could be mistaken here, but I'm very, very, my sixth
sense is saying, Egypt is Rome in the New Testament.
Egypt is Rome.
So Roman provenance has a solid case in my opinion, if you look at the parallels and
look at the story sequence and see how it plays out in the New Testament, salvation
is in Rome.
Salvation ends up, Rome ends up being Egypt when famine strikes out in Joseph's day and
they all have to go to Pharaoh, they all have to go to Egypt to get food and they have to
come buy food from Joseph and they don't even know that it's Joseph.
Well, that is the idea I think being portrayed of coming into Rome and being obedient to
Rome and coming to Rome for salvation rather than being in the wilderness, being tempted
by the devil as Jesus says, that wilderness to me is Israel, is Palestine, it is the place
where the temple's at, it's all that that needs to come down that is not helping them,
it's going to cause them killing and death and starvation and all the stuff predicted
that you see of the temple's destruction, which to me tells you that the text was already
written after the fact.
Alright, taking to Egypt as youth after escaping death, Herod the Great, interesting.
So there's that parallel in the Joseph story that they're taking to Egypt as youth after
escaping death, which Joseph is as a youth, he's 17 years old and the story Genesis 37,
he ends up getting taken to Egypt at youth, but he's not the youth that he was in the
Jesus story, Jesus was much younger, so there's a more parallel to Moses here, but it still
could somewhat be a parallel here that they're going to Egypt, okay?
Same thing.
And Moses' parallel is Joseph too, so if you're wondering, there's that.
Became a servant, tempted without sin, we know that Jesus was tempted without sin, we
know that Joseph was tempted with Potiphar's wife without sin.
He was in charge of everything, the only thing he didn't have was the wife, okay?
And she wanted to sleep with him, long story short, he fought that, resisted that, didn't
want to sin against his master, nor his god, he leaves, she takes his clothes.
To me, there's kind of a parallel there with the idea of, and they parted his garments,
okay?
This idea, the cross idea.
So let's keep going, falsely accused, he's falsely accused, Jesus is, and as well as
Joseph in the narrative, unlike many other Bible scholar or characters, sorry, no sin
of Joseph is recorded, Jesus was truly sinless.
I mean, you could do that too with Job, Job was a perfect and upright man according to
the text, he never sinned it looked like.
So yeah, I see no problem with saying Joseph never sinned, Christians put that on things.
Christians come up with these narratives and they say stuff like, no one has seen God
except the Son, Jesus, because the New Testament says that, except, I'm sorry, but if you read
where Jacob wrestled God, he says he saw God face to face, but Christians will come in
after, yeah, but that wasn't God, that was the angel of the Lord, that wasn't really
God, it was, you know, he couldn't see God, okay, the text says he saw God, well no one
else was perfect.
The text says Job was perfect and upright, whatever that means, either way, that's what
it says, and so anyway, let's see, suffered for another sin, or another sin, yeah, that's
true, and it's interesting that Potiphar's wife, her sin is what Joseph is being accused
and has to suffer for.
To me, it's interesting, I don't know, I don't know if this, this harlot wife that
is there is signifying either the southern tribes of Israel, possibly, if there's some
type of accusation, a sub-narrative here that's discussing what's going on in the captivity
between northern and southern Israel, or Judah and Israel, I wonder, I wonder, because a
lot of people say that this may have been written during the Babylonian captivity,
as possible, confined in jail custody, thrown into a pit, literally a well, or pit, Genesis
37-24, also you've got the dungeon that comes, I think it's Genesis 38, but that to me is
another interesting thing, because once Joseph flees and Potiphar comes home, and I can't
remember, but somewhere I read where Potiphar did not believe his wife, he knew Joseph was
innocent, but he was angry at the situation, because the accusation, right, I mean supposedly
he raped his wife, come on, the accusation, he ends up in this prison with a baker, and
he ends up in the prison with a wine-bearer, and you have to ask yourself that question,
like, hold on, these guys also have a dream, just like Joseph, one of them was the baker
for Pharaoh, and one of them was the wine-bearer for Pharaoh, okay, okay, enough said, Joseph
overhears them talk about they had this dream, Joseph says, look, let me hear your dreams,
God's giving me the gift of being able to interpret dreams, so the baker tells his dream, and
so does the wine-bearer, and lo and behold, long story short, he says, well, the dream
is talking about three days, and there's so much three days going on in here, guys, go
back to Genesis 30 and read every chapter all the way up to this point.
You find that Jacob was three days' journey away from Laban, you find that there was three
days at Laban, or three days they left, and then Laban had to come find him, and it was
a seven-day journey, so there's threes, there's sevens, there's doubles, there's a lot of
doubles, anyway, the baker tells him, he says, in three days, you're going to be brought
up to Pharaoh, and he's going to condemn you, and you will be, the birds are going to eat
the carcass, you're going to be on a steak, hung, and the carcass is going to be ate by
the birds, and you're going to be consumed, devoured.
What?
Yeah, you heard it right.
And then the other guy's like, look, you're going to be in three days, the wine-bearer,
because he says, I saw there were three this, there were three that, well, this is what
an interpretation of your dream means, in three days, Pharaoh's going to take you and
reinstate you as a wine-bearer, and you're going to be, you know, serving wine, alive
and well with Pharaoh.
Oh, okay.
Finally three days comes, and sure enough, Joseph just tells the wine-bearer, just remember
me.
That's all he says.
He says, don't forget about me.
Remember me.
That's all he says.
Hmm.
Where have we heard this one before?
Ah!
Jesus.
He tells them, this is my body, this is my blood.
He says, here's the baker, the wine, I mean, the bread guy.
Here's the wine-bearer, okay, this is where his blood is, body, blood, baker, wine-bearer,
and he says, do this in remembrance of me, Jesus says.
It's totally Old Testament rip-off right there, at least being copied from the Old Testament.
Obvious.
It goes further though.
You get the two men with Jesus that are being crucified.
This is exactly what's going on with Joseph, and they're all being crucified here, okay?
Is what I'm seeing.
The one thief, he's like, you know, negative and pessimistic, and he can represent your
past, I guess, if you wanted to be esoteric about it, but one of them is condemned.
He's resurrected to condemnation, is the idea.
The other one is resurrected to eternal life, and he tells them that you will be in paradise
with me this day, and you know, that's what he tells them.
That's exactly what happens to the wine-bearer in the story with Joseph.
He's resurrected, and he is to eternal life.
He's given life again.
Don't forget about me, he says.
Jesus teaches us why he's alive in the ministry on earth, and next thing you know, what happens?
Well, the narrative is that Joseph is remembered at one point, and Pharaoh has a dream.
He says, I know someone who can interpret dreams.
They pull him out of the dungeon, and voila, Pharaoh had this double dream once again,
these two sevens, sets of seven, and he says seven years, plenty and seven years of famine.
It's coming, and it's obvious that this is paralleling a lot of what we see in the New
Testament, so let's keep going.
The baker was lifted up on the tree, crucifixion three days plus the tree, the tree plus three
days, green years followed by dry years put over, and now this is stuff that you can see
the New Testament reference, put over the house, Joseph, Moses, Solomon, Christ, both
exalted after suffering, all will pay homage and every knee will bow, so remember the dreams
that Joseph said that every knee shall bow, or the twelve brothers, the father and the
mother are going to bow their knees, well, you know that the brothers also bow their
knees, and here in the New Testament every knee shall bow, Jesus says.
Both given all power and authority save one, God, or Pharaoh, and that's interesting too,
that parallel, both were royal robes and dressed as a king, Jacob wore Pharaoh's royal robe
with necklace, Jesus wore purple robe while being mocked with crown of thorns, which is
interesting, they both wore royal robes and dressed as a king, Jacob wore Pharaoh's royal
robe with necklace, Jesus wore purple robe while being mocked, so he went to Jacob here
in this instead of Joseph, I saw a lot with Jacob, they didn't mention here, I saw a lot,
I wrote it down, but we didn't want to get lost on Jacob, Joseph given seal ring for
seven abundance years before seven years of famine and death, Jesus broke seven seals
that caused famine and death, interesting, so that goes right to Revelation, both had
priestly connections, Joseph married Asinoth, whose father was a priest, Avon, and Christ
equals Melchizedek, I don't know why they jumped from there, maybe I'm missing something,
began ministry at 30 years old, brothers stared at each other and went to get food, all must
go to him for bread, interesting, he's the bread of life, unrecognized by his own and
of course Thomas being the twin brother of Jesus according to some accounts, he did not
know that it was Jesus, just as Benjamin did not know that it was Joseph, and then how
do you reveal it, reveal by scars according to Jesus, while you reveal the circumcision,
his circumcision to his brother Benjamin, that's how they knew that it was Joseph according
to that account, tested his brethren for worthiness, ten brothers condemned to prison and released
after three days, Jesus condemned and rose from dead after three days, betrayers felt
remorse, Joseph's ten brothers, Judas, and Judas could represent Judah, or even Israel
in the first century, it's obvious there's a parallel between Judah and Judas, and that
kind of begs the question, is this a real guy in real history here, named Judas, I have
a very tough time believing this is historical guys, accusers, betrayers held responsible
for shed blood, both wept for the wicked, interesting, identified the primary betrayers
Simon, or Simeon, Judas, Genesis 49, 5-7, ancient Jewish Targum identified Simeon as
primary ringleader to kill Joseph, and Simeon and Levi who were brothers in the council
said each man to his brother, behold this master of dreams cometh, and now come let
us kill him, and throw him into one of the pits and say that an evil beast hath devoured
him, arid we shall see what will be the interpretation of his dreams, Jewish Targums, of Oncolos,
righteous judgment, Joseph's spirit innocent, Reuben oldest, for the guilty Simeon next
oldest, who spent several years in jail until the brothers returned, Jesus is our perfect
judge who can separate the sheep from the goats, which is interesting because that's
what Jacob does anyway, I don't want to get into all that, but there's a lot there, Simeon
got the worst land in the Neo-Jev, I guess, and was absorbed into Judah and Levi got
no land at all, amazing grace given to weekend, Joseph returned his brothers food money, Jesus
grace to us, both forgive those who wronged them, became savior of the people, Joseph
Christ suffered according to the predetermined plan of God, and it is funny because he says
that God had a plan the whole time, why his brothers sold them into slavery, Jesus says
the same thing even all the way to the point that Judas was part of this predestined plan,
so to speak, self anger and sorrow at hurting Joseph and Jesus, first news that Joseph Jesus
were alive was not believed, Jacob would not believe Joseph was alive, the male disciples
would not believe Mary when she reported Jesus alive, fearful hearts brought to peace, Joseph
Jesus, substitutionary atonement, innocent Joseph Christ suffered for a guilty brethren,
evil turned into blessing, turned intentional harm into good, comforted those who betrayed
him and felt guilt, disciples were comforted of all guilt of abandoning Jesus at the cross,
except John, who was the only one who was at the trials and the root of the cross, after
Joseph Christ became king, both began summing up all things, making Pharaoh God all and all,
and these are references into the epistles, Hebrews under Joseph and Christians under Christ
were exempt from losing their blessings, but enjoyed all physical spiritual blessings while
the rest suffered, and remember now this is some of the stuff is Christian dogma in it,
but if you look at the literary device and show that Joseph is now resurrected out of the pit
and he is seated at the right hand of Pharaoh, just as Jesus is seated at the right hand of God,
you know that's a parallel. The bigger picture is when the famine sets in, Israel's suffering,
Israel suffers in the Old Testament, so what do they do? They have to go into
Egypt to receive salvation, they had to come into Egypt to finally receive salvation,
they were buying food from there, and really if you look at the first century context,
Rome was involved in this really gathering most of the food, there were famines that had taken
place, and if you look at it, you'll find that the narrative of the New Testament,
especially in Paul it seems, starts to bring people into Rome. Why? If it's not a copy of Joseph
that's bringing people into Egypt, here you have them bringing them into Rome and be obedient to
he's writing to the house of Caesar and stuff. I think there's a copy of Joseph here in a sense,
and this also tells you the things that are mentioned need to happen immediately. The story,
narrative doesn't allow for 2,000 years into the future, some possibility of a future event,
of prophecy being fulfilled. I don't buy that one second, I think there was an immediate context,
and whether you believe it happened or not, or they wrote it after the fact, I think that you
can't get over the fact that it had to happen soon. So it either failed and didn't happen, or it's
written after the fact, as if it was a fulfillment, and if it was something that was written before the
fact that was fulfilled, it was common knowledge or an easy assumption that it would happen. I don't
believe that these are real prophecies that are actually taking place, it's a rewrite of an Old
Testament story, which makes it look like it's God breathed and it's true, and you know, it literally
is God's story, okay? So looking at Joseph, he shall add, I began to wonder and explore the idea that
is Joseph and Josephus something here with Joseph and Josephus? We know Josephus was
predicting, so to speak, prophesying that Vespasian would be the emperor, technically interpreting
the dreams of Pharaoh, so to speak, and Joseph seems to parallel Joseph as well, Josephus, I mean,
and Joseph. Is Josephus Joseph of Arimathea? Is Josephus possibly copying this Old Testament
narrative into his own? And is this also signifying their connection? Is there a connection between
Josephus and the New Testament more than we give credit for? If Josephus is Joseph, which his
name is Joseph, Josephus is Joseph, that's the name, then when he predicts the emperor's dream and then
is now given all this command by the Roman emperor Vespasian and adopted into the household,
how does that not sound like Joseph in the Old Testament?
See where I'm going with this in my mind? I'm wondering if there's a purposeful
Rome is your final destination for salvation, come to Rome narrative in the New Testament.
I suspect unite, you know, get along with your neighbors and come in and bring Israel into Rome.
That's my thoughts. Tell me what you guys think right now. I have not organized this.
This is simply just showing you that there's the connection. We've known all along if we were
believers that there's trying to make a narrative, and if you're a non-believer, you knew that the
narrative was there, you just didn't buy it. But if you find in the New Testament Gospels,
what is historical about Jesus? And you go, well, the crucifixion. Let's go right to the heart of
the crucifixion. I can show you the story of the crucifixion in Joseph. The only thing I can't
show you is that they're literally crucified. Well, where'd that come from? Derek, it only
comes from the historical relevance of Roman crucifixion here on earth, a real punishable
device for those who are rebellion or rebelling against Rome and such. That's possible.
That doesn't mean that this is a literal history there either. With the three men in Josephus's
autobiography that died, three men, or not died, but three men that were crucified,
one of them survives and two die. It's the same narrative of the Gospels. It makes you kind of
wonder, could they be taking from that and applying it here into the Gospels? Because
in that narrative, in the Gospels, you see two men die. We're really technically all three men.
However, the three men on crosses crucified is in Josephus. And if Joseph Atwell is correct
about this parallel here, and it's very possible, then what we have is a New Testament copy of Old
Testament, also copies Homeric epics from the Greek Roman myths, and also is using some of
Josephus's material, and they're compiling, creating a narrative. That's kind of what I'm getting at.
It's possible if that is the case, a way of building the entire structure of the Gospels,
and easily seeing it as historical because you're borrowing from Josephus to make your story.
Something to think about. Now, when we get to Paul, then we're talking about a whole different
story, but I wonder if that's a story too, and not like a literal historical account. I know
scholars agree that it's historical, but help me out. Comment down in the section below. Tell me
what you guys think. Give me some insights that you've seen. Make this interactive, and tell me if
you guys see Paul as also playing a story narrative and not a literal character. I know that happens
in the book of Acts. I'm not doubting that. Acts is obviously fictional history, or even fictional
period. What about the supposed authentic seven epistles? Can you guys find a reason to think
that this is not a literal history, that this is not a real literal guy who's writing these things,
or do you suspect this is a real guy who actually is writing these things, and it's not part of a
narrative or story? Tell me what you think of that. With that being said, be sure to like this video,
share this. It's helping us out. Thank you for helping us grow on MythVision. We want to bring
you all the content we can, and to help you guys as much as possible. If you want to hear from
certain scholars or guests, give us a donation, and we can help use that donation and try and
bring people onto the show. To get people's time and energy, it does cost us money,
so if you guys are willing to help participate, comment who you'd like to see. Send us a PayPal
and tell us what the PayPal's for. I know that Dr. Luther's been in his book a lot,
so if you guys send it to me and put a comment there, you can email me as well.
Let me know who you want to see. Send me a PayPal, and I will try and see if I can't get these guys
to come on. We can talk about things you want to talk about. Thanks for joining MythVision podcast,
your host Derek Lambert, and journeying with me between Joseph and Jesus, and just seeing this
literary narrative. What's going on here? Did this guy really exist?
