Ladies and gentlemen, today I have a very special guest.
We're going to be diving into his work pertaining to Islam.
And many people who've watched Mythision for a while have been curious to know
what are the ideas surrounding scholarship on the rise of Islam, the origins,
and where does this material come from. And there's an interesting debate.
It's a discussion, really, that I hope people will enter into.
And that is how we're approaching the historicity of these events.
If we go to later biographies or the Hadith,
you're going to find even Muslims disagree over particular details.
And we're going to discuss some of this stuff today.
But using historical methodology, starting with the Quran,
which is the specialty of our guest here today, is trying to take a historical approach.
Can we take a different understanding?
Can we walk away understanding the rise of Islam differently
than the way it may be painted throughout time?
And so that is our guest today is Gabriel Said Reynolds.
Dr. Reynolds, welcome to Mythision.
Thank you, Derek. Very happy to be with you.
Thanks for inviting me and I look forward to our chat.
Absolutely. Right now, you better go down in the description.
Go subscribe to his YouTube channel.
I'm telling you, I promise everybody watching right now,
this is the place.
If you want scholarship pertaining to the rise of Islam, Islamic studies,
the Quran, Quranic studies, I mean, everything from carbon dating,
you know, the Quran to pre inscription Arabia with all sorts of stuff
that kind of gives us the names of Jesus or different things that lead into Islam.
This is the place to go for the scholarship you want.
Please go subscribe and let him know in the chat say,
Hey, I came over from MythVision.
This is I'm from MythVision. I'm from MythVision.
Go drop a comment, go drop a like, hit the subscribe button and support him.
His books are also on Amazon.
Make sure you go the links in the description.
The one we're talking about today is the emergence of Islam.
And the there's a new version that's here classical tradition
and contemporary perspective that will be out in March.
And there's a 2012 edition that's already out.
So I hope people will get the books.
There's a lot of them here and I hope we can cover more of this content
as time goes by Dr. Reynolds, but also he has an academia page.
Go follow him there.
You can read his articles and follow the scholars that we have here at MythVision
showing him that we care.
Now, Dr. Reynolds, what's the difference between 2012 model and your new one?
Because I saw there's like five to six more pages.
It seemed in the newest version.
Yeah, well, first of all, thank you so much.
I mean, you've just become my best friend.
I'm very grateful for that.
Right.
So the emergence of Islam is was written as a textbook.
And I use it in my teaching here at the University of Notre Dame.
And so it does have like a lot of graphics.
It has charts, tables, like information that's easily digestible about Islam.
It's relationship to the Bible, the historical context of Islam has questions at the end.
But I think it's really useful for anyone.
I think of all my books, like if you want to start getting to know a little bit
how I think emergence of Islam is a good place to start.
The updated version has two principal features which are new.
One, I engage in a more robust manner with early Islamic and pre-Islamic inscriptions.
And this is a field that's just like exploded in the past 10, 20 years
where we have all sorts of new discoveries of inscriptions before Islam
and in the early centuries of Islam, which shaped the way we can make historical observations.
In particular, it shows that monotheism had spread in the Arabian Peninsula before Islam.
So that's one.
And then the other is, I think it's chapter eight, the one where I engage with contemporary visions of Islam's origins.
There's a lot more engagement with South Asia generally.
So like India, Pakistan, but then especially what's happened in Afghanistan and the Taliban.
And so, yeah, the book will help understand these recent trends and what's going on in Islam in the world.
I read your 2012 model just so people understand your publication model.
And there's some really juicy things.
So without wasting your time any further, we're talking about the rise of Islam.
And I did not put the page number here, but I took a screenshot.
And this, you mentioned Maxine Rodinson, if I'm pronouncing that properly.
There seems to be this guy Watts and Rodinson.
They come up a lot in this book.
And in fact, there is no record at all of this Meccan trade and non-Islamic sources.
And Mecca is hardly the easiest land route between Yemen and Syria in order to get to Mecca from the coastline of the Red Sea
and arduous inland detours necessary.
Indeed, it seems that the idea of Mecca as a trading center and the Quresh as a tribe of greedy merchants,
which is the way the story plays out for those who don't know.
The way the story plays out is later this idea.
We're trying to figure out what happened, right, the rise.
So the myth developed that this is a myth by Islamic tradition to explain certain Quranic passages.
Notably, Quran 106, a surah titled Quresh.
This myth was then used by Western scholars such as Watts who were eager to find social and cultural factors.
Can you comment about that?
And like, what is the issue here?
Yeah, what's going on there, right?
So this is super interesting.
I'll try to be concise because there's a lot to say about this.
Basically, with the rise of Western scholarship on Islam, you have all these scholars trying to understand how this movement emerges, right?
Islam is a spectacular movement.
The Prophet preaches, according to traditional dates, between 610 and 632.
And very quickly, Islam spreads throughout the Arabian Peninsula, the Middle East.
You know, a good way of sort of marking the growth of Islam is that 732 is the date of the Battle of Tours or Poitiers,
which is in southern France.
So in 100 years after the Prophet's death, Islam was spreading in France.
You have all these Western scholars who are like, what happened?
Now, of course, from an Islamic point of view, the answer is easy.
God, I mean, God was the one who inspired the Prophet, who sent the Qur'an to the Prophet,
and who aided and supported the early Islamic armies as they went in their conflicts with unbelievers.
But then you have these Western scholars coming around and they're like, okay, we need a secular explanation for this.
Some of these scholars were themselves Christians.
He was, I believe, an Anglican priest himself.
I think he was an Anglican priest.
He was a student of someone named Richard Bell, who I think was also, he was Scottish.
But anyway, so some of them have Christian perspectives and they're interested in friendship with Islam.
That was certainly the case of what?
And then you have other Western scholars who are either openly atheist or just completely secular.
If they have religion, they keep it, you know, basically hidden.
And Rodin saw to use the fancy French pronunciation is one of those sorts of scholars.
But what like Rodin saw, and there was a scholar named Grim before them,
they used a social model to try to explain why Islam emerges.
And a lot of this was based on the principle that the Quraysh, the principle tribe of Mecca,
were these like wildly successful merchants.
And that so in their merchant trade, you alluded there to Yemen and Syria from that passage of the book,
so that their trade would take them on different sort of caravan journeys,
either to the south from Mecca to Yemen or to the north to Syria.
And they became fabulously wealthy trading or they have a different ideas what they traded,
but either they were intermediaries for some trade that actually might have started in India,
passed through South Arabia, went up to Syria, or they had their own spices and things,
which people sort of, I don't know, imagine is connected to Arabia.
But this was really convenient for them.
It's worked as an explanation because in part, I don't know this as well,
but in part I think it was linked to certain explanations for the origins of Christianity through social movements.
So they developed a similar idea for Islam, which was listen,
the Quraysh had become fabulously wealthy and inevitably that brings along with it moral decadence or decay.
And so they had this idea that Muhammad must have observed a society and moral decay or ethical decay
and that this would have awakened his conscience and led to either some sort of sincere religious experience
or maybe for a more polemical perspective, a fabrication of a religious experience
so that he could combat this ethical decay.
And in particular, they imagined him as sort of the champion of the underclasses,
that he was there to support the poor and outcasts of Mecca against the rich and wealthy Quraysh.
Okay, so that's kind of their moment.
Now, just say a thing or two about the problem of that.
I mean, it's really fanciful, but the principal problem is understanding whether there actually was this robust Meccan trade.
And there are all sorts of questions about this.
First of all, Mecca does not appear on any pre-Islamic map, period.
There are reports among certain late antique and classical authors of a place called Makoraba.
And some Western scholars have speculated that this may be Mecca.
It's pretty clear that it's not even etymologically like trying to get to the root of the word,
that it's not in Mecca, not always in not appearing on any map, it's not mentioned by any.
And isn't it in the north, like way north of, in Arabia, almost like between Egypt and Southeast Asia?
Yeah, yeah, it's in the northern part and it is not actually on the coast.
I mean, that quote that you read from the book sort of elucidates, it's not actually on the coast.
So it's not a convenient, I mean, if you were going to go by land for some reason and not travel up the Red Sea,
to a place called Isla, which is basically Akaba today, you wouldn't go through Mecca.
I mean, you have to go through a desert mountain range and it's isolated.
But more importantly, Mecca is just not there.
I mean, if it was this great trading center, someone would have mentioned Mecca.
And another problem is after Islam, Mecca is not in fact, like after the rise of Islam,
Mecca is not in fact a trading center in the early Islamic period.
Trade is centered between Iraq and Syria and eventually Egypt and some other places further east and further west.
Mecca, so how, why was it that Mecca before Islam was a great trading center and then an early Islamic?
So lots of problems with this idea.
The most famous work that criticizes the idea was by a woman named Patricia Corona, who wrote a book called Meccan trade.
And she had her sort of conversation partner was an old Belgian scholar by the name of Henri Lamens.
And she really criticizes his work and says, listen, basically,
even if there are certain Islamic texts would speak about Muhammad, for example,
going on a merchant journey with his uncle Abu Talib as a boy.
We should not put much give much authority to these these traditions and sort of good historical work shows us that Meccan trade.
If it existed, it was modest.
And therefore, the whole social explanation endorsed by scholars like Wat and Rodin Song that Muhammad's consciousness was awakened because of the ethical decay is probably false.
So OK, there's a lot here.
And just to point out, I do there is that social explanation.
The West typically when they're coming with a secular angle, they do with Christianity to your right.
I mean, Paul was a tent maker.
These fishermen are from Galilee and there were tax collectors in this region.
So they're thinking they're little enclaves of groups that kind of like are, you know, they're in their own little their own little pockets and they're passing this information around.
And maybe their success among the poor or among slaves in the empire, like things like that.
So they're trying to find a model which explains the growth and develop the Christianity.
And some of it you would look at that sounds a little bit.
There's some good explanations.
Some of it maybe not.
But yeah, I've never understood now that I've learned what I've learned, like why people want to say that people completely fabricate religious experience.
I'm not.
And I say complete because we might exaggerate as humans.
But like, I don't think you need to like act like people are faking things in order to be convinced is my point.
After researching enough to know how humans are, like people really believe and experience things.
So yeah, this is really interesting question.
And I'm not really, I don't really have great expertise in thinking through this, but it does interest me.
And I would like to say something about it.
What, for example, Montgomery Watts, one of the two scholars that we're speaking about that are brought up in the book Emergence of Islam.
He believed in Mohammed sincerity.
And this is following earlier Orientalists.
Most famously a 19th century scholar named Springer.
I think he was Austrian.
Probably doesn't matter who insists that Mohammed or at least propose that Mohammed fabricated his claims of religious experience for his personal ends.
Right.
Because you could see the temptation of a scholar saying that first of all, maybe they have their own biases against Islam.
Maybe they don't like Islam or Muslims.
So that could lead to it.
But also the trajectory of Mohammed's life is from relative obscurity as an orphan to power and fame and money and wives and right.
So the time he's in Medina, he's the head of a state.
And he's quite successful as quite a lot of power and has wives.
And so, so you can see the temptation like, oh, this all worked out well for him.
Therefore, he must have fabricated.
But as just as you say, there are powerful counter arguments which suggest that, you know, at least if you read carefully, the biography is life, that the reasons to believe in his sincerity.
Of course, this doesn't mean that an angel really visited him in a cave or that he received messages, right.
But there's most people would say that it's possible for people to have a conviction of religious experience, which is authentic, whether or not they actually historically had that religious experience.
And I think, I think most scholars, I mean, those who attribute who believe in the biography of Mohammed and basically attribute the Quran to Mohammed, at least as a proclamation, that would be the standard position today.
There'd be very few people apart from some, you know, polemicists who would take that old school approach of no, he fabricated for his own personal and advanced.
Right. And just so you know, like I take the, the, the other view, right, not the polemical view.
I think Paul really was sincere, right? We look at the New Testament, I think this guy really had an experience.
And I really think this, that doesn't mean you have to draw ontologically the conclusions.
That means let's take this guy like other humans who have human that have experiences and they attribute them to the divine.
I just thought it was interesting to point that out.
Now, there's a lot, there's so much I brought to the table here to bring up that I think it's important to just go through half the book in our heads and say, OK, so half of this book is a case to show pretty much that
we shouldn't, if we're doing historical methodology, we shouldn't just accept the tradition.
What I mean is the biographies later, we should question them.
And in fact, you point out in the book, Muslims themselves actually did this.
They were like, well, and they didn't agree with each other.
There's contradictory voices and stuff on trying to explain things.
And so we're like, OK, we also have good reasons to think there's theological mythological significance in creating some of these narratives, which bolsters your claims about your prophet and tell fanciful narratives about them.
The same is true of Christianity and any other religion that I'm aware of.
So I kind of want to get through the half of the book to say what you ultimately do is you go, OK, now, instead of looking through the early commentators, exegetes, scholars of
Islam, Ibn Ishaq, other people that you talk about in the book, like, we aren't throw them out.
But like, let's not use them to then look back into the Quran to try and understand what happened.
And then I did a recent wonderful interview with Javad Hashmi, where he was like, it was.
I was shocked.
I'm not going to lie because in my mind, it actually helped.
Like in a lot of ways, some of the things you hear polemicists say about Islam, it helped to reduce that that polemic.
If you know what I mean, and saying that Muhammad was like getting progressively more aggressive as his power gain, he just wanted to go and destroy and kill.
And, you know, all these things that polemicists want to say, whereas he's like, if you look and you read it without just cherry picking one surah and you go, OK, stop reading it through these exegetes to a power who want to conquer.
Let's read it through the Quran alone.
And when you do that, you realize, hold on, he sounds like he is defensive here.
He sounds like he is balanced in some way.
Am I saying, you know, he's perfect.
I'm a westerner, right?
I'm a secularist.
But at the end of the day, he looked a lot better than what we've been hearing.
So can you tell us going into this, like just tease us into why this approach.
And then I don't want to spend too much time on it because we have very little time together.
OK, so this is really the heart of the matter.
This is where the rubber meets the road in thinking about Islam and Islam's emergence or origins.
And I mean, probably the best way to start is with the classical approach.
And by classical, I don't mean only the historical Muslim scholarly tradition, but also earlier Western scholars.
So the classical approach is, listen, we have two bodies of literature.
We have the Quran, which is distinct as a scripture, which is presented as the word of God.
And then we have another body of literature, which are all these traditions, which could be generally referred to if we use the word in a sort of Broadway as Hadith.
Although all of them are not strictly prophetic Hadith or sayings of Muhammad, they're traditions about Muhammad.
So but these are built, these are put together to form the biography, right?
So basically the Quran and the biography of the Prophet Arabic word for biography is Seerah.
So we have Quran and Seerah.
Now, the traditional way or classical way of approaching this is, you know, these two can both be useful in understanding early Islam.
And so, for example, when you read a verse of the Quran, I mean, the easiest way to give an example would be what is by tradition,
the first revelation given to Muhammad, which is in the Quran 96.
Eqra Bismarab Bakrladi-Khalaq, read in the name of your Lord who created.
And you're like, okay, this is interesting, but it has no context.
It's just literally seems like a command to someone, second person singular to the reading name of God.
There's no context.
We don't know where, when, how this was proclaimed.
And then you go to the Seerah or the biography and you read the story that Muhammad had this, this practice for every year to go up for a period of time on some sort of spiritual retreat called the Hanuf.
And during one of these occasions, the angel Gabriel came from heaven and he brought down at least to the lowest heaven, the folk were on and then he visited the prophet and gave him the first five verses of sort of the lalak or Quran 96, right?
So the Seerah like provides a context.
And this is a really like tempting almost seductive way of trying to understand the Quran because you get so much information in the Seerah.
Now, the problem is, as you probably know, that the Seerah and all of these reports, not only the ones that are strictly in the biography, but the other hadith as well that are found in different collections, rather, they come from a later period.
At least their first literary traces are quite late, late eighth, early ninth century is when we actually see them in manuscripts and written down.
And so, and what makes it even more curious is that very often the traditions that we find in the Seerah seem to have been written, perhaps, expressly to explain something in the Quran.
So like the story of Muhammad being in a mountain and at sometimes some of these traditions say Gabriel showed him something written and told him read, iqra, those first words of Quran 96.
And being in a mountain in a cave, all sorts of biblical sort of examples of where this happens with with Elijah and others.
So if that's the case, that is, if at least some of the traditions were initially written to explain the Quran, we can't then turn around and understand the Quran through them because they're produced by the Quran.
So we can't use them to explain the Quran.
They come after the Quran, not before, which gives basically reason to those who would argue that in understanding the Quran, we need as much as possible historical evidence from the time and place.
The Quran was proclaimed or written and understanding the Quran in light of earlier literature, which is principally Jewish and Christian in late antiquity.
Some would say pre-Islamic poetry. That's that's another question that's a little bit tough.
So I mean, I think that's sort of like sets the scene for this problem, this dynamic.
I go in much more detail, but maybe if you have a chance to respond and we can go back and forth.
Absolutely. There's so many things I'd love to just ask.
And some of these questions may not take you long to respond to.
I don't expect us to go exhaustive.
Really, I hope people will read the book.
And I felt when I read the book that there were books in this book that you could have easily have gotten just, you know, like a specific subject and could have gotten lost in.
Many articles are out there on these.
So I'll throw something interesting that you actually say early on in the book as the first half of the book pertaining to various approaches.
And you mentioned in the open that some scholars actually believe Muhammad is a title for Jesus and that he didn't exist.
And to me, I've heard this before in the past, but it sounds like a conspiracy theory to me because it would require like a conspiracy theory or something that just doesn't make sense.
Because if this is if this is the case, how did Muslims insert Muhammad as a person over Jesus?
It's strange to me.
Like when did the shift happen where this is a title for Jesus?
Then all of a sudden, like they start thinking he's a different guy.
Doesn't that require a conspiracy theory?
I don't want to get lost into this, but wouldn't you say that?
Yeah, basically, I would agree.
It requires a conspiracy theory.
So it's certainly not my point of view.
I mean, to be fair, I mentioned it there in part because people with I mean, these sort of fringe theories are really interesting.
And the reader would be like, wow, yeah, right.
But it's it's a it's a mine.
It's an extreme minority position.
There are very few people who would doubt the historical existence of Muhammad.
Although there are some books out there doing that, just that.
But I mean, there's this really a fringe position.
I mean, the where the logic of this, I can't really do that much justice to it because it's just difficult to fully.
If you if you don't believe in its coherence, it's it's hard to give it a coherent explanation.
But I mean, the idea is, isn't it interesting that the Quran pays so much interest and in a way gives so much honor to the person of Jesus and to Mary, by the way.
And even if it denies explicitly that he's the son of God, it doesn't really seem to do away with all of the Christian language.
So it does call him a word of God.
It seems to call him spirit of God.
So that's like point one that this group, this group is this idea has been supported by a number of scholars connected to an organization called Inaudah based in Germany.
Right. So that's point one.
Quran really has a high place for Jesus, even higher, I would say, than later Islamic tradition allows for something we could speak about.
Point number two is, Muhammad is sort of everywhere and nowhere in the Quran.
So the mention of a prophet, Nabi or messenger, Rasul is frequent.
And there's all these second person singular addresses in the Quran, like we spoke about one Quran 96 before, but there are many, many others where God speaks to one person.
So those are assumed to be addresses to Muhammad.
But the name Muhammad only appears four times in the Quran.
And then in one other occasion, the prophet seems to be referred to by another name, Ahmed.
That's in Quran 61 verse six.
So, so he's also kind of nowhere.
Whereas, I mean, Jesus's name is 20 something times, Abraham is I think 60 something times in Moses is over 100 in the Quran.
So why is the Quran not actually speaking about this figure?
And the name Muhammad seems to have a meaning in Arabic, which is the one who is to be praised.
So they couldn't kind of put all of that together.
But I mean, let's be, let's be serious here.
I mean, not only does the Quran testify to a figure who's a messenger and it's possible that Muhammad is an epitaph, like a sort of a name that was taken up to reflect his religious role and vocation.
So the praised one.
There's not a lot of, there are some but very few witnesses, at least in the inscriptions to the name Muhammad before Islam.
Ahmed Al-Jilad would be the person to speak about.
Ahmed Al-Jilad would be the person to speak about that.
So it's possible that this was a sort of epitaph, like a nickname.
And it wasn't his historical birth name or something.
Arabic could say Laqab.
But I mean, there's no reason to think Muhammad didn't exist.
Yeah. And that's, I kind of figured that in the book.
You just kind of go right past, but you mentioned it in light.
So these are some hip fires.
And I don't expect you to go in exhaustive on this, but I've talked to Sean Anthony.
I've talked to other scholars and asked them different things.
And since we're starting with the Quran as our source to try and really understand the Quran because later stuff is later stuff.
I mean, well, after the Quran, well over 100 years or more easily.
Do you think the Satanic verses maybe are historical or again, like what we talked about?
I mean, it's a personal question because each scholar might say, I think there's something to it.
Maybe not as it's elaborated later, but there seems to be something to it because you mentioned also in your book.
Don't you find it quite ironic?
And it wasn't you, but you quoted a scholar and I can't remember the scholar's name.
We were like, don't you find it ironic how little pagan theology and beliefs are mentioned in here?
It's like you said, Jesus and Mary and the Bible characters and stuff.
So yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
Big exception to that are the Satanic, the so-called Satanic verses or at least the material left in the Quran that's connected to the Satanic verses.
Because there we have the mention of the three pagan Arabian goddesses.
Allat, Manet and Elosa.
So yeah, in my opinion, the Satanic verses story is not historical, is not authentic.
Now, this is a little bit complicated to sort of, I don't know, go through the landscape of scholarly assessments of the story.
Because you have the Islamic tradition in your early Islamic tradition, basically everyone accepts the story.
And the reason why they accept the story is, okay, let me say, accept the story.
In the Quran, in sort of 53, which I believe is sort of the Najam, you have a mention of these three goddesses, Allat, Manet and Elosa.
And then there's a sort of long verse, strangely long verse there.
And then what follows, God says something like, oh, are you going to have sons?
And I understood only get daughters.
So there's implication that the opponents of the messenger are saying that these three pagan goddesses are the daughters of God.
And there are other places in the Quran I believe where there's a reference to daughters of God.
So there's that.
And then there's a verse, I believe, in sort of 22, in which says that, or which says rather that the devil basically always inserts into the mind of messengers something that is false.
But God abrogates, that's the key word, nasecha, as the Arabic word.
What Satan, I believe the actual word is cast or throws into the mind of the messengers.
And so that second verse actually, in sort of 22, is actually the key one because it suggests that, oh, this is the normal thing that happens to messengers.
Satan tries to insert something in the brain and God fights back, right?
And so the early Islamic tradition says, in my opinion, creates the story about Satan inserting certain verses that would have been in sort of 53, which gives praise to these three goddesses.
It calls them the high flying cranes, the birds, high flying birds.
And then Gabriel came down quickly and said, no, no, no, this should not be understood.
Okay, now the appeal, so early Islam accepts it.
Early Western scholars almost all accepted for two reasons.
One, they had this idea that Muhammad was like yearning for the Meccan pagans to accept Islam.
And it was painful to him that they weren't accepting Islam.
And so they imagine that he would have been susceptible to satanic interference for a compromise, which would say, okay, hey, Muhammad,
you can accept these goddesses or the pagans as daughters of God, but not as real goddesses, but call them daughters of God and look for their intercession.
And that's a compromise.
And so Western scholars were like, oh, he must have been like open to proposing something that's whether or not he was deceived or actually just fabricated the whole thing.
But he must have been open to that idea of compromise.
So that's one reason.
And the other reason is West, early Western scholars would say that the story is so injurious, that is so harmful to the reputation of Muhammad's reliability that it must be true.
Like no one would have passed the story on.
No Muslim would have passed the story on if it weren't true.
That's basically the criterion of embarrassed act like being applied.
Yeah.
So, yeah, I think neither of those apply.
They're both wrong.
The story is in early Islam, obviously was not seen as a problem because I think it was created to explain the verse in sort of 22.
It was transmitted without a problem.
And in this early stage of Islam, story-making, storytelling, story-making, storytelling was a really productive sort of phenomenon.
All sorts of stories about lots of prophets.
I could tell you other stories about other chronic prophets that puts them in a bad light.
There's lots of these stories.
The idea of prophetic perfection or impeccability had not been really established.
So I think this is actually a perfect case of the Qur'an producing a story which later scholars then took and put back into the Qur'an, to read the Qur'an via the story which in fact was produced by the Qur'an, a perfect circle.
Wow.
Moving on to another question.
And that is the Virgin Mary.
You talk about Virgin Mary in your first half of the book, and it's not extensive, but then we get into characters like Jonah.
We get into how they're looking at this.
And I found it kind of interesting because I recently have done a little research on Gospels pertaining.
In fact, Bart Ehrman did a course called Other Virgin Births.
In it, he draws this conclusion that there aren't any.
He thinks that in the Greco-Roman world, the gods pretty much had sex with the women, the mortal women, and then you had demi-gods, but they were still sons of God.
So I talked to Imdevilitla, which was one of his students, and he walks away and says, well, actually the Numa in Greek, you find in Plutarch about Plato, like there's all sorts of interesting things.
So he's like, I wish my professor would have read this.
Well, I say all that to kind of like draw context.
I'm well versed in biblical stuff.
And so I'm like the history surrounding it, why these ideas are floating around in the Greco-Roman world and how philosophy is impacting early Christians and probably the authors of the Gospels, all that fun stuff.
And then I hear that the Quran adopts the idea, or maybe they already believed it in Arabia, that she was a virgin.
But they have to add in this kind of caveat of like, quit calling him a son.
God has no sons.
And in this adoption, I found it ironic, my question is, if God did not birth Mary in Islamic tradition, how do Muslim exegetes, historians and stuff?
Who do they say his father really is?
Because if the Numa, and it says that the spirit birthed her, just looking at the context, me being someone who's in the first century, knows what this means.
I mean, sons of God is a common thing.
It is well known.
Caesars were sons of God.
Demigods were birthed by high gods and stuff.
I mean, it's well known within the cosmology of the world.
But in Arabia, I'm curious how they, what do they do to answer this question?
Well, I think the question actually was a major issue, even at the time of Muhammad.
And it's all reflected in a passage in chapter or sort of three of the Quran.
Because the question you asked, I think, I mean, a little bit of speculation, but I'm right, was asked of Muhammad.
And you have to work through this carefully because there's some things you can conflate and you have to avoid doing that.
Okay, so you're right.
It begs the question.
If Jesus is neither the son of Joseph, nor the son, or some Roman, some Roman guy soldier passing through, or of God, then who is he the son of?
And if Mary, I mean, the Quran seems to speak very clearly, both in Quran 3 and in Quran 19.
Especially in Quran 3, the scene is close to Luke's Gospel, where Mary asks a question, basically, no man has touched me.
How can this be?
In the Quran says God says be and it is.
So it seems exactly as you say, the Quran seems to defend the virginity of Mary.
I think there's some reasons to understand the Quran is implying also the perpetual virginity of Mary.
You get into that, yeah.
So, but the thing is that we have another passage or another verse in Quran 3, where the Quran says the example of Jesus is Adam.
God created him from dirt and said be and he was.
Now, I think that that verse is in anticipation of precisely the question that you asked.
So either anticipation or response.
The Quran, I think, was proclaimed an environment that was heavily Christian.
It's a whole other topic that, again, diverges from standard Islamic beliefs about Islam's historical context.
I think it was heavily Christian.
Christians were engaging with Muhammad.
There was evangelism and Dawah going on already in the 7th century.
And that that question is a response to Christians saying, OK, then how could he not be a son of God if he had no human father?
So now Islamic tradition sets that the reason I say be careful not to conflate is because Islamic tradition sets that verse which compares Jesus to Adam.
In the context of a story about Christians who came to Medina and they spoke to Jesus and they spoke to Muhammad.
All my prophets mixed up.
They spoke to Muhammad and they asked him who would be Jesus' father.
So they asked that very question.
Muhammad said, let me wait for revelation and then God reveals this verse to him.
And they were amazed at the answer.
Then he challenges them to a sort of dual or mutual cursing and they refuse the challenge and they go back to South Arabia.
So I think that story is a fabrication.
It's another example of a story created on the basis of the Quran.
And so but because it's reading, it's created from the Quran, it might actually, in fact, be kind of close to what historically happened.
Not because that story was remembered from Islam's origins, but because the verse itself does suggest that there were Christians asking just that question.
Interesting, funny anecdote just to finish on this point.
So Muslims would later pick up this point in Quran 3 and they would say things like, well, actually, Adam should be more of a God than Jesus because he had neither a father nor a mother.
So he should be twice the God than Jesus was.
So they use that argument.
And there was a Christian medieval apologist who would respond and he would say, yeah, Adam's actually not that special because the first of every species had no father, no mother.
The first donkey had no father, no mother.
So there's nothing special about him.
You know, what's special is that someone in the history of a species who should be produced by father and mother is not.
That's actually quite an interesting debate because I could sympathize with the first response and then I can immediately sympathize with, oh, good, gotcha.
And this is what happens throughout centuries.
You know, it sounds like there's a different metaphysics in the mind of those in Arabia or at least in Muhammad's mind, like he has a different metaphysics in understanding this.
Whereas for me, I'm carrying the baggage of original context, right?
I'm reading this and I'm aware that the Numa of God overshadows Mary.
And it literally, in their metaphysics, they're trying to get away from God's...
I mean, I know that it's unique here with Mary.
But like, if you look at the Mediterranean, the gods were having sex with mortals.
And you can get a sense of this in Genesis 6 where there's like, what the heck is going on with these women?
But they're getting away from that.
And of course, God is like not this physical substance.
There's the Numa of God that I'm pregnant.
So I'm carrying that over and I'm curious, like, how was there metaphysics here?
But I can't read his mind, but it seems like he created him.
He doesn't have to...
In a sense, there's like a creation miracle of making Jesus rather than it being through some strange metaphysics that I might find from the first century, if that makes sense.
And it's interesting that that verse, and it's not the only place it uses, has God speak, right?
So the Quran literally says, when God wants something, he says Kuhn.
The Arabic word is Kuhn, which means be.
And so, you know, people wonder, is this connected somehow to Genesis 1?
Maybe even to John 1, which speaks of the Son of God as the logos or the divine word.
So there could be something there, especially because, as we mentioned earlier,
the Quran refers to Jesus on two occasions as a word of God.
You know what I'm starting to realize during our interview?
How screwed I am because I got so many questions for you that are just like,
Oh, I love the book and I want to get your thoughts so much more on these topics.
So, okay, I'm going to try my best to chip away at the iceberg and I'm worried we're at the top.
So, this is an interesting point you bring up in the book and I'm curious to know using historical methodology,
how scholars come down on this and maybe even your opinion.
It seems like originally Islam was an Arab religion, specifically targeted for Arabs.
It was it using historical methodology is a fair to say this was an Arab religion,
meaning it's exclusively for them kind of like Jews Judaism or their religion.
I'll just say Jewish religion because there's variations within their own category.
Someone said that when you start saying religion,
you already are creating categories that kind of don't exist because it's very there's always a spectrum.
But either way, the idea that like Jews to become a child of Abraham,
there's a conversion process, the child of the person has to go through and all these things.
But over time, could tell birth to love wrote about Jews and the Roman rivals during pagan Rome.
You notice people are converting even Paul redefines terms like where he's like,
actually God adopts you with his Numa.
His Numa enters you and you are now a child of Abraham just as much as a Jew.
And so there's a different idea going on in Jewish thinking.
I'm curious to know if historically the Quran specifies this this is an Arab religion.
Later Muslims as they conquer and expand,
they're having to deal with territories and people groups and things like that that they didn't before.
So they start to absorb new theology to include people that were not initially welcome.
Right.
Right.
Okay.
Terrific question.
And it's a difficult one to answer.
Yes or no.
I'm just kidding.
It's yes and no.
And I'll try to try to explain that a little bit by sketching out some ideas,
which hopefully would be, I don't know, useful or at least interesting.
I mean, the first point, which may be a surprise here,
I think is that to the best of our knowledge,
there was no trans translation of the Bible in Arabic before Islam.
You might be like, okay, why does that matter?
Well, because there were Christians and Jews who were Arabic speakers before Islam.
So we know that from now more and more so-called paleo Arabic inscriptions,
that is inscriptions before Islam in what we basically recognize as the Arabic script.
There's not a lot of these, but there are a few.
And basically they're all, well, no, not basically,
they are all monotheistic and all of those that can be identified further are Christian.
So there were Christians in Arabia speaking Arabic, writing Arabic,
but they had no scripture in Arabic.
So when they heard the scripture, or for those who could read and write,
when they read the scripture, they were doing so in another language,
probably Syriac, but there could be cases where they could potentially read Ethiopic or Greek,
maybe, but Syriac is the most likely.
And just for people to know, Syriac is a form of Aramaic for people who are curious to know,
like, anyway, there's probably differences too, though, Syrio.
Exactly.
No, no, it is.
It is Aramaic.
It has its own script, which is why people use a different term,
but it's exactly as you say, yeah, it's a form of Aramaic.
So anyway, that matters because the Quran seems to present itself with great enthusiasm
as finally a scripture in Arabic for the Arabs.
So the number of verses to bring up here, I think it's 42.7.
I might be getting it wrong so someone can mention that the comments, the right verse.
For this reason, we have revealed to you in Arabic Quran that you can warn people.
In 16103, I'm pretty sure about this one, has something like,
we know that they say only a human is teaching him,
but that human to whom they refer has a foreign or better barbarous tongue,
and this is in an Arabic tongue or a clear Arabic language.
So there are many other verses like this that could be referred to which basically say,
this is scripture, it's consistent with earlier scripture, but it's in Arabic.
There's a verse, I don't know what sort it is, which simply says,
this is a book that confirms in the Arabic tongue.
So you put all this together and it seems pretty clear that at least in one stratum of the Quran,
as another problem, do we have strata from different time periods and things,
or potentially from different sources, but at least in one stratum of the Quran,
there's this great enthusiasm and excitement that finally the Arabs are getting a scripture in their own language.
Okay, there's a lot to be said here.
I don't want to go too long because I think I've thrown you off by my super long answers,
but this is actually super interesting.
Potentially it reflects the missionary impulse of Christians.
Remember, and as I'm sure you know, Derek, that in this period in late antiquity in the Near East,
but also in Europe, Christians are translating the Bible furiously into all sorts of languages.
As you probably know, the Cyrillic script and other scripts are developed specifically to translate the Bible and evangelize new peoples.
And there's reason to think that the Arabic script, not the language, but the script was developed by Christians,
maybe missionaries.
Christian Robin has argued this, I think Robert Hoyland has argued something very similar.
And so there was probably this great missionary pressure and Christians are beginning to express themselves in Arabic,
but not yet did they have an Arabic Bible.
So the Quran is this enthusiastic response to this saying,
no, no, here's your Arabic scripture, a new prophet with a new message.
Finally in Arabic, God spoke before to the people of the book.
Now he's speaking to us Arabs.
This is this is a message to follow, not that Christian religion, which is being communicated in foreign barbarist tongues.
That's sort of the way I would understand it.
I actually think that that is one of the real keys and the book makes the argument to understanding the rise of Islam is this enthusiasm for the Arabic language.
The Quran uses the word Umayun, which we could speak about further.
It basically seems to mean Gentiles, the people who had not yet received divine revelation and are now receiving it.
Muhammad, for that reason, a Quran seven is called Nabi Al-Ummi, the Ummi prophet.
So yeah, I think it's super important.
Now, there could also be other strata or segments of the Quran, which have a more universalizing message.
There is there does seem to be an awareness that Muhammad should preach to Christians and Jews.
There are different verses like in Quran, Quran four famously 157 and others where the Quran specifically addresses the people of the book and seeks basically to reprimand them and apparently to convert them,
which would suggest that there is a universalizing tendency also present present in the Quran.
So I would say yes and no.
This is really interesting because your book mentions the Medin and Meccan.
I guess a temptation for scholars to want to see those exegetes and how they are dividing and they're trying to say,
Oh, he was a Mecca and he was in this war.
They were going to battle here and there's this.
It's like an overwhelming thing.
It's almost like when I read a gospel,
I'm sucking myself into Matthew to understand Mark and it's like, hold on, hold on, different authors.
Don't do that.
Try to.
But you know, there's there's a lot of that temptation.
Our time is running out.
So I want to make sure we cover something else that I thought was interesting.
You have a conversion.
Like you said, they're motivated to to convert.
They're setting the record on what the correct scriptures are.
You point out in your book how later tradition says Jews and Christians got it.
They screwed up their book.
They messed stuff up.
But you actually go to show that the Quran isn't quite condemning actually.
In fact, there isn't this condemnation.
This is something Muslims do.
And I imagine when you have something that breaks away from the rest of the world and now you're entering that world,
you're there's going to be polemics, I imagine, against the Christian and the Jew.
So like in the Quran, they're kind of giving a nod to the earlier scriptures and not really polemicizing.
That that leads me to also ask about apocalypticism.
I'm a big fan of trying to like find out.
The end is near.
The end is now.
We see this all throughout New Testament.
Late Second Temple Judaism.
You might find some of this within the prophets.
There seems to be an anticipation of something that's going to change.
Do you think the Quran, not necessarily later because you can find different voices.
Some might be apocalyptic.
Some might not.
Do you think the Quran has a soon near end apocalypse message in some of the strata?
If we can use the term that this guy like the Apostle Paul seems to be anticipating something very soon is going to end.
The world's going to end.
I think it's a difficult question to answer.
And some people have embraced that idea really enthusiastically.
I mean, Stephen Schumacher wrote a really interesting book about I think the death of the prophet.
And I think it comes up in his new book, creating the Quran.
So those are two resources people interested in this idea that might look at Stephen Schumacher's work to get an advocate for that point of view.
I think Fred Donner also in his book, Muhammad and the Believers basically endorses that view.
The most famous endorsement of this view was at least among sort of nerdy academics.
It was a French book called Muhammad and the End of the World by a guy named Kassanova written in the 1920s or something.
So people always refer back to that.
Here's a guy who was early like prophetically pointing out the apocalyptic or eschatological dimension of the Quran.
So yeah, I'm sort of ambiguous about that.
I mean, famously Quran 54-1, which I think is a chapter of the moon, starts with the words,
اقتاربت السع و ان شقر قمر, which means the hour has drawn near and the moon has split, split in two.
And so people point that in their various hadith and traditions in which Muhammad is made to say that the hour, I'm the prophet of the hour.
I think he's sometimes called Al-Hashir, which is the one who gathers in also a divine name.
But a name given to Muhammad as the one whose coming is just anticipates the final hour.
The problem with this idea is that especially in passages connected with Medina, we don't see the same enthusiasm.
So it could potentially be in the earlier so-called Meccan period of Muhammad's life, excuse me, that he had that kind of enthusiasm.
54 is a Meccan passage.
But when we look at the Medinan stuff, when we look at sort of like two, three, four, five, eight and nine, this is a statesman who's setting things up, setting up a society in a city and figuring out, you know, taxes and inheritances and marriage.
And the distribution of booty and plunder and plan for war and conditions for peace and things like that.
So we don't get the sense of someone who is sort of wildly predicting the end of the world, you know, on the corner of Times Square somewhere in Manhattan.
We more have the sense of someone who's anticipating building a religious state and is sort of a practical sort of statesman in that regard.
So it would be fair to say that if there is that, you would have to take, I mean, you would have to, but it seems likely that there's like a change in mind and heart and maybe what an environment that causes that kind of difference.
Yeah, right. And so, and that's connected to a common approach to the Qur'an, which is to say that early on when Muhammad didn't have power,
he put his hope in divine vengeance on the unbelievers. So we had this apocalyptic eschatological hope. I mean, sometimes I think you probably know this better than I do.
Apocalypticism is explained as some sort of cognitive dissidents between the way that things are and the way that they should be.
And so that's that gap is made up by imagining some divine punishment that's going to come upon one's opponents.
And so people say, oh, that could have happened to Muhammad and Mecca because he was weak and persecuted and under the heel of the mighty Quraysh tribe.
But then in Medina, things worked out well for him in secular terms or in worldly terms, I should say, maybe to be more contemporary.
And so he sort of left that behind and he said, no, no, I can be the rod of God's wrath through jihad and I can set up a state.
I can apply God's law and implement God's rules here and now.
So yeah, I'm sort of skeptical about that, too, because I think it's very difficult.
This eludes to a point you made earlier.
It's very difficult to, in fact, divide between Mecca and Medina strata in the Qur'an.
And even I'm not even ready to assume single authorship for the text or at least the absence of any process of redaction and layers of redaction within the text.
So I think we probably need a more complicated model.
Wow, that's an amazing point because I've been reading on this for a minute and not only in your book, but other books you point out in your book.
Because we're wrapping up here that, you know, there's even in the tradition, then the voices aren't in complete agreement on how we get to Uthman and like who the companions are between the time the Qur'an comes on.
And then there's this really interesting part where they're finding leaps and rocks and and like they're discovering writings and like it sounds a bit, it almost sounds convincing.
But it's also sounds a bit legendary or like they're finding these warriors that are dying off.
They need to get the ones that are still alive to come.
And then you mentioned the different science.
They had a science that they developed and I think it's called Isnad.
Isnad is the the chains of traditions which are meant to validate reports.
That's Hadith, of course, that you go into.
So I'm like literally throwing a whole bunch on us as we're getting to the end here.
But the point is, is I've thought the same thing too.
I'm not saying there isn't stuff that actually goes all the way back.
But is it fair to say to be able to divide between both Meccan and Medin and stuff, you can do it and you can come up with tools and methodology and all that.
But like there's no way to actually know with any confidence of certainty that this is the case.
So the different approaches to the problem.
Nikolai Sinai is a great person to read by the way on this.
He is much more optimistic about our ability to identify Meccan and Medin and passages in the Quran than I am.
He has a really great book called the Quran Historical Introduction.
So we've crossed swords a lot on this particular topic.
But even someone like Nikolai would say there's a lot of interference.
So there's a lot of Medin material that's in the process of compilation.
I'm not sure if he would say redaction was inserted into Meccan material.
So for example, I believe sort of 6 and sort of 16, which are both by tradition Meccan sort of speak about Jihad.
Well, there should be no Jihad in Mecca.
Muhammad was not yet leading armies against young believers.
And so sometimes the tradition sometimes Western scholars would say, oh, any mention of Jihad there is an insertion of something that was originally proclaimed in Medina
and has been later inserted and for whatever reason has been certain to a Meccan passage.
It's a really convenient argument to just explain anything away.
Maybe that the turn of phrase doesn't do justice to someone like Nikolai is a great scholar.
But to explain things away by saying whenever something doesn't fit my model, I'm just going to call it an insertion.
There are other problems too because certain elements that are associated in literary terms with Mecca and with Medina
I think are simplistic.
So the general idea is short verses were proclaimed in Mecca and long verses are proclaimed in Medina.
And that sort of trumpeted as, okay, here's something that is not like dependent on traditional stories to locate a passage in Mecca or Medina.
This is a literary criteria on a literary standard.
Short verses in Mecca, long verses in Medina.
Really, I mean, is it impossible that someone could have written short verses in Mecca and again for whatever reason in Medina?
Is it possible that a short verse was expanded into a longer verse and that actually you have sort of a proto version rather of a certain verse and then a later developed version?
How do we eliminate the possibility that material was not simply inserted but actually reworked and developed as time went on?
Our passages really sort of frozen in time from the way they were proclaimed and say, I don't know, 615 and never changed again.
It seems to be more likely that there's a story to be told about the redaction of the Quran that has not been told yet and that needs to be developed.
Having said that, I would just say that none of this, of course, precludes for a Muslim believer that their faith, I mean, you can still hold to more complicated versions of the formation of the text and be a believer,
as you know, from the examples of believing Jews and Christians who do historical critical work.
I am so disappointed in not being able to continue going on with you.
I really recommend people to read this book.
I mean, you cover things from the letters that are introduced there at the top before the surahs come in and how there's this mystery and what this means, what is this?
You cover so many things and you really got my attention on this developing idea of, you know, is it set in stone?
For me, if I was looking at the modus operandi of any and all traditions of literary traditions, there is never a just this, that's it.
There seems to be some process, whatever that process may be.
I'd love to see someone write and give a good hypothesis on how they think this happened.
But Dr. Reynolds, I can't tell you how much I appreciate your time.
I have more questions, but we may be able to jump on this again at some point.
You have other works, so I want everybody to please take the time.
Go get the book, in fact, get his books, but this one is the one that we read and we were discussing.
And in fact, I can tell you for sure that that iceberg barely got touched.
There's a lot more material in here.
He breaks down good arguments, too.
You don't take a long time to even break down some of this stuff.
You get right to the jugular, as I like to call it, and letting people see why there's a problem with just accepting, if you're using historical methodology,
just accepting what later traditions say.
And by the way, Muslims also recognize these issues, too.
So it's not like only people who use a secular or historical methodology figure this out.
That's why I have such appreciation for Javad Hashmi and his approach and what he's trying to do.
Go subscribe to his YouTube channel.
Please, I'm apocalyptic.
So if you don't, you're going to be left behind.
You need to go right now.
Subscribe. Let's get them up there.
Let's get them 5,000 subs.
I don't know why.
For the life of me, this channel has not blown up because it has the best.
When it comes to Islamic material, Quran, pre-Islam, the whole nine, there's not another channel that I am aware of out there on YouTube that does what Dr. Reynolds is doing.
You can get lost in here endlessly.
And I'll play his stuff in the background while I'm sitting there working, whatever.
Excellent scholars.
And it's really a privilege to have the opportunity to interview you, Dr. Reynolds.
Do you have anything you would like to say about anything pertaining to your books, YouTube, or your academia as we're on our way out?
Thanks. Well, I'm really grateful, Derek, for your graciousness in promoting the YouTube channel and books and all of that.
My most recent book is called Allah, God, and Quran.
Maybe that can be a subject for another conversation because that's about the theology of the Quran.
I have friends at Notre Dame who have started YouTube called Reasons for Our Hope that has things on Islamic Christianity that might also be of interest to your viewers.
So maybe that's the only other thing I'd mention.
Wow. We have to get into this because you bring up in the book the name Allah.
Where does this come from?
Is it just mean God?
Was there a well-known deity in pre-Islamic time that had this name?
And there's so many questions I have about the theology as well.
I really appreciate you.
I hope everybody goes in the description.
Check out his YouTube channel.
Please subscribe and let him know that you came from MythVision.
That way he knows, okay, I might waste more time coming and talking to that guy named Derek.
Thank you so much, sir.
Thank you, Derek.
