Ladies and gentlemen Lloyd Evans with the Lloyd Evans YouTube channel
He's an ex-Jahovish witness and we're gonna be digging deep into the fellow prophecies of the Jehovah's Witness
Organization and there's been so many of them before we do make sure you guys like this video hit that bell on the subscribe
So you're notified every time I drop a video and consider becoming a patreon
I've got tons and tons of videos on the patreon that you get early access to and of course more goodies will be coming this year for those who
Are on higher tiers within our patreon. I really appreciate the efforts on helping make this possible and continue to grow
Make sure you guys go check out Lloyd Evans material as well. Let's talk to Lloyd Evans
We are
Myth vision welcome back to myth vision podcast. I'm your host Derek Lambert
Ladies and gentlemen, you see who we have on the channel. What is going on my brother? Welcome to the channel Lloyd Evans. He's looking behind him
Hello, lovely to be back. I had a blast last time and
Basically wanted to repeat the success of our conversation. So here I did I've been I'm gonna be honest, man
I'm like, I've been watching you, you know, every single show you put out that's unnerving. I'm not gonna lie
Yeah, I knew you would say
Listen, I have a wife. Okay, you don't have to worry about that part. Okay
Lloyd seriously though
I've been enjoying your content and you have a YouTube channel for those of you who do not know and you're popping on in this video
You haven't gone and subscribed
I'm telling you you will not regret going and checking out his material some of the most interesting
Jehovah's Witness and ex Jehovah's Witness material I've seen out there and the way you articulate yourself Lloyd
You think we can tell you're precise in what you say and that's because people are watching you that aren't your friends
Who are trying to get you if I'm not mistaken
Yes, yes
I I try and be as precise as possible because I remember what it's like to be on the other side
and I remember what it's like to
be totally convinced that
Jehovah's Witnesses have the one and only truth and
Apostates must be
Liars who feast at the table of demons and they must be trying to mislead people so I
Try and make every video with that in mind
So that's there are as few reasons as possible for someone to say oh this chap fits in with that stereotype
more or less exactly so
Yeah, that's my approach. Thank you once again David for helping make this possible
But and then Dr. Robert Price we interviewed a man who's an ex Jehovah's Witness
Elder he was an elder called Alan John Miller that he goes by AJ or the Aussie Jesus
This guy being an elder gave talks at the JW assemblies and conventions in front of tens of thousands of people numerous times
I believe he was interviewed at Bethel to become a circuit overseer even I know your buddy John Redwood now Mark O'Donnell
Is or was planning to write an article on AJ for your new blog which I believe has recently changed from JW survey to
JW watch org if I'm not mistaken
Yeah, correct. We just wanted to make it a bit more newsy
We have been in the past been
quite
keen on collecting
Figures for you know knowing how much people feel knowing how many people feel about a certain way about a certain issue
And we want to make it more about news from now on so interesting
Did you see the interview I did with Aussie Jesus? I didn't worse the whole thing
I was familiar with this gentleman. I've been familiar on I've known about him for quite a number of years
So it did peak my interest and I tried to muscle through a bit of the interview
But I if I can be completely blunt I felt as though he was very disrespectful to
To you and and Robert's I would have liked to have heard more from Robert to be honest
It felt a little bit like
Even though it was your show you became quite sidelined and Robert in particular became sidelined
Even though Robert's knowledge of the Bible is frankly far more interest to me
Then then this chap who was on
I frankly have a very limited bandwidth of interest for
People who are crazy
Yeah, people who are sufficiently deluded is to think that they're Jesus
So I can stomach so much of it so long as it's nicely proportioned between
him making his claims and and perhaps you and Robert responding to them and it probably wasn't as
As even as I would have liked but I think it was a major coup for you to get him on the channel and
Yeah, well done. It was the these are the sorts of exchanges and
Interactions that I think are helpful if nothing else so that people can understand
The depths of delusion that people can sink to I mean we all know in in theory
It's possible to encounter people who think they're Jesus
But to find one of these nut cases who's brave enough to you know, go on camera and talk about it
That's that's next level. So so well done. It was a very interesting video. Even if I wasn't able to
Stomach stomach as much as I would have liked. Yeah, well, I have to admit man
We it took a lot for me and I said, okay
I have a couple options I could do like everyone else and be critical
Or I can just be kind and ask questions in a way that just kind of lets him say
It's most my audience are already critical thinkers most I'm not gonna say everyone but most yeah, and
Yeah, 100% I felt like his answers were long-winded and they rabbit trailed off the topic too
So I couldn't really probe on some of these issues
But yeah, he was an xjw and I think that the framework of the JW Colt
Honestly, and this is just my opinion before we get into the fellow prophecies of the Jehovah's Witness Church
Which is the reason this video is being produced
This is just something that I had to get Lloyd to hear and comment on I think the Jehovah's Witness Church
Honestly has set up the framework for the delusion now. Don't get me wrong
The guy already probably had issues what I'm saying is I was told and you're gonna get this is a shocker
I can't say who right yet till till they're ready to come out that when he was an elder
He caught through the grapevine in the the church
Oh, this person's drinking or this person's doing that and he would go at night or go out and hide in bushes with binoculars and
Observe people in the act of going to buy alcohol or whatever it might be and then confront them
So that they couldn't
Deny so that he could ex-communicate them or he could shun them and get them out and he felt power doing that
And so so yeah, there's that setup the JW Church works perfect for a guy like this
It's it's behavior and delusions that let's be honest aren't sanctioned
You know, you're not going to find material encouraging people to think they're Jesus
And you're not going to find material for elders telling them to sneak around in the bushes with binoculars
But the what you will find that find in there is only a hop skip and a jump away from that level of delusion
So, you know, it's almost inevitable when in the case of elders when you give them so much power
That one or two are going to take it too far and it's more than one or two believe me
And it's almost inevitable when you have decades worth of literature that uses such flimsy argumentation for
Asserting that a group of dudes are God's channel with mankind
It's inevitable that people are going to think well if it's that if it's that easy to argue
These sorts of claims. I've got a few claims of my own to make, you know
So it yeah, it's almost inevitable. It's just very rare
I mean, I get people emailing me all the time saying, oh, I'm has a kite. I I'm Isaiah or I'm
I'm whatever profits
Reincarnated or what have you, you know, they're brave enough to email the very rarely brave enough to go on camera
And and talk about their delusions. So again major coup getting this guy on
Yeah, I don't think that's gonna happen again, but anyway
Especially now. I've said all that
Yeah, I don't think so. So don't get any ideas Hezekiah and Isaiah or whoever you are. I'm just kidding
Lloyd Elijah, sorry, it was Elijah not has a kite has a kind of lies. Okay. Yeah, interesting. Yeah, either way
I'm just on them. Yeah
That's funny. Um, the New Testament, it's so clear from the scholarship out there
They thought not only did they if there was a man Jesus and I suspect there was a guy who said
Look, these things are gonna happen soon. I mean the language is very frank
Anyone who reads words in Greek like mellow and such it's clear. It's about to happen
Whatever it was was supposed to happen
Most scholars say it didn't happen
Most the church pushed it on and said, oh, it will us this stuff will happen because he said it would it just didn't happen yet
So there's kind of a delay
Um, and so JW is being strict about text. They're they're pretty much fundamentalist on steroids
They look at these texts and they're just adopting the same vibes that come from the New Testament
It's about to happen. It's about to happen soon the destruction etc.
Etc. Etc. Etc. And so I figure it's good that we go into the Jehovah's Witness felled prophecies and maybe have you explain
some of the few felled prophecies and I guess firstly though and the research found this this is an interesting quote in the awake magazine if
you are a young person and
Also need to face the fact that you will never grow old in this present system of things awake
1969 May 22nd page 15
So let's start with the 1914 a gas unless you have that quote specifically pulled up I
do
so this is what the
Magazine actually looked like you can probably see there. It says what future for the young? Yes. Yeah
So this was a 1969
awake article
And yet it said
What you just said as a young person you will never fulfill any career that this system offers
If you're in high school and thinking about a college education
It means at least four perhaps even six or eight more years to graduate
Into a specialized career, but where will this system of things be by that time?
It will be well on the way towards its finish if not actually gone
So it was telling people in 1969 that they wouldn't even have a chance to complete their
Higher education if they wanted to go through higher education because Armageddon would be here by then I
Gotta warn anyone who's a Jehovah's Witness right now if you think you're gonna stump
Lloyd
Yeah
The guy has your sources
The guy goes to the sort he has the original books guys, so I mean
Just just I would ask that you open-mindedly listen. Yeah, I will say one thing just a point of interest
It's JW.org has updated in recent years so that there's more
Information from its past available, but it's still shockingly little compared to what's actually what they've actually printed and just to illustrate
You can read watchtower articles
Going all the way back to 1950
But it's always been the case even when the
Library was on CD-ROM that you could only ever go back as far as 1970
For the Awake magazines isn't it interesting that this particular magazine was printed in
1969 almost as though hmm
Don't people reading that anymore actually we've had this had a change of heart about how near the end is yeah
I love that you point this stuff out, man
Like and if in I'm glad more people are starting to like a lot of people I saw in your recent live everyone go subscribe to this channel
I'm telling you you got to check it out in your recent live you you're a huge light a beacon of light that
Gives other people not only like of course people who don't do YouTube like inspiration on saying hey
I can leave there is a life outside
But you're inspiring people to also repeat and do their own thing and create their own channels to try and come up with stuff
And so I really just want to say man. Seriously. You're you're awesome. You're a hero in the xjw world
Well, that's kind of you to say I don't see it that way and you know
Interestingly someone tweeted about this the other day, and I I retweeted about it
I try and steer people away from this idea that any one individual is
Is like crucial to or is like the final word on on apostasy because you know, I was
I was awoken myself by Ray Franz now deceased
Paul Grundy who I've had the privilege of meeting and interviewing
several times now
Look, you know, we all have a finite period in which we can do our thing
Not everyone's able to do their thing, of course, but I'm not going to be around forever
Um, I one of the reasons why I did that live streams because I think it's incredibly important to
encourage the next generation of activists because
You know, uh, if I encourage the idea that I am somehow, you know
Some guru or you know the final word on apostasy
You know, what happens if I need to stop doing this for whatever reason? So
I just view it as as like a team effort. I view it as a multi-generational struggle
Um, and I'm very very proud to to play some small part in it
But yeah, it's it's very generous when people say the things that you've just said
But I try and as much as possible shine the light on on the collective rather than the individual
And that's good. That's that's what makes you who you are, man
And I really do appreciate that and that's also why I do the interviews with the
xjw's on my channel is like unless of course you want me to claim that i'm jesus in which case let's set up a live stream
That's apparently a thing nowadays
Yeah, if you guys really want attention just claim to be jesus
Yeah, I there's so much I could say about that and I honestly don't even want to
So
1971 you said was the cutoff date or 1970?
So they they've made available awake articles from 1970 onwards and this was printed in 1969
Interesting. Yeah, perfect. Isn't it guys?
Um, I guess we're going to go into some stuff that predates even that uh today
And I think that'll be interesting to show you guys like the birth
Not just the birth. I'm saying the early stages. We're not showing anyone a birth on this show
It's you know, I don't think youtube would monetize that sort of content
And I'm anatomically unlikely to achieve that feat if if I'm completely honest
Yeah, I don't know if I could either
So let's start with 1914. Lloyd. I know this religion places so much emphasis on this year, which
Coincidentally started with world war one
For our myth vision viewers who are slowly starting to learn about this cult
Why is 1914 such an important year for jehovah's witnesses? Did charles tay's russell predict the end of the world in 1914?
Well, he did but it was borrowed he borrowed almost all of his ideas from someone
and before he decided to
write his own magazine he was reading a lot
of material and information from
19th century thinkers who were influenced very heavily by william miller
Who predicted of course
That there would be a rapture that there would be the second coming of jesus in 1843 and then he changed it to 1844
And they called it the great disappointment because surprise surprise nothing of the sort happened
And there was a string of kind of followers who
Who then kind of just mimicked the same sort of date setting fanaticism?
one of these was called nelson-barber
and he came up with the
chronology or the explanation that pointed to
1914 as being a date of significance
And he wasn't the only one to do that by the way. There were others
So charles tay's russell basically
pulled together all of these pieces of of the jigsaw from various different thinkers and created his own hybrid
You know religion at the time was called the bible student movement went on after his death to be called jhovah's witnesses, but they
basically arrived at 1914
from the year
1906 bce which they thought was the date for the destruction of
Jerusalem by nevy kid nezzo. We now know that's totally not true
As confirmed by cuneiform texts and also 606 was changed to 607 when they realized
There was no year zero because they wanted to keep the the end point at 1914 because by this point they'd figured out
That at least something happened in 1914 of significance that they could point to
As indicating that it was a year of significance even if it wasn't quite how they predicted it to be
But the pointers before 1914 they did point to 1914 as being
Not just the beginning of the last days, which is what johova's witnesses now believe
They pointed to it as being
actually the the final cut-off for armageddon and this is spelled out in this book
Uh, the time is at hand
Actually, it's spelled out in in multiple books and magazine articles, but this is one of the most compelling quotes. I think
um
So on page 101
It says be not surprised then
When in subsequent chapters we present proofs that the setting up of the kingdom of god is already begun
That it is pointed out in prophecy as due to begin the exercise of power
in ad 1878
And that the battle of the great day of god almighty, which will end in ad 1914
With the complete overthrow of earth present rulership is already commenced
The gathering of the armies is plainly visible from the standpoint of god's words. So that's what they believed
um
When the matters of this book were doing their thing and today, of course johova's witnesses say, oh, that's a lie
um charles tays russell never pointed to 1914 as
Armageddon he predicted the last days would begin in 1914. That's not true. It was only after russell died
That later generations specifically joseph rutherford in his birth of a nation
article in 1925 he switched everything round and just
you know
rummaged around and kind of rearranged a few dates and said no no no 1914 was when the last days begin
you can you can actually hear in the text there that
um russell was obviously convinced that
Christ had already arrived and begun to exercise power in 1878
It was 1914 that was supposed to be the cut off for him. Wow
And this is something that they have they still can't get out of their system as you guys will see in the upcoming
uh quotations and stuff because
This whole armageddon thing. It's an armageddon cult and and this keeps people in the fear of do you want to be in paradise earth?
Do you want to see your loved ones? Do you want to be there with us? It's just crazy
So the original founder charles tays russell of the johova's witness church
church
He died in 1916
Obviously disappointed
None of his predictions came true and then a new leader judge rutherford, which you just mentioned joseph rutherford
Took over and he created a campaign called millions now living will never die
And from my understand he predicted armageddon in 1925
Oh
Is this actually printed in the watch tower original?
This is one of two originals that i have this is actually you mentioned john redwood earlier marco donnell
This is a copy i'm saving for him. I thought i just can't be bothered to send it to him, but it's his copy
But yeah, obviously the title itself is unfortunate, isn't it when you consider that this was published in 1921
um millions then living certainly
Have died in fact all of them pretty much
Wow, you could probably find a handful that are of people on the planet today who
You know who predate in terms of their birth 1920, but you know, they're
It's a very very small number. It's certainly not millions
um, but on page 88
It gives some explanation for
1925 and then it says what then should we expect to take place in the type?
There must be a full restoration therefore
The great anti-type must mark the beginning of restoration of all things. They spoke in types and anti-types. So in other words
There's an initial fulfillment and then there's a grander fulfillment
The chief thing to be restored is the human race to life
And since other scriptures definitely fix the fact that there will be a resurrection of abraham isaac jacob and other faithful ones of old
And that these will have the first favor
We may expect 1925
To witness the return of these faithful men of israel from the condition of death
Being resurrected and fully restored to perfect humanity and made the visible legal representatives of the new order of things on earth
So he was saying that
By 1925
The new order of things on earth would be in place
And in fact people like abraham isaac and jacob would be involved in administering it because they would be resurrected by that time
Bold claim to be making in 1921, but hey
Gotta give it to him. He went did that get published in the uh in the uh
Watch tower publications. Yes. Yes. So
Um millions now living will never die is obviously one of the most famous publications for
Um, you know explaining the
You know the theology behind it, but it was repeated in multiple publications. In fact
My favorite version is in um the way to paradise, which you can just about see in my bookshelf there
Yeah, right there
This was that was written by w e van amberg who was one of the watch tower directors and he went
He went into embarrassing detail
As to exactly what abraham and isaac and moses and david would be doing and how they would set up a government in jerusalem and
Fly around on aeroplanes and broadcast on the radio to administer the the kingdom the global kingdom
so it was all very embarrassing really and
Um, interestingly in the current publications, obviously this all predates everything that's on watch tower online library
uh, but you can find and i i don't have the the
The reference to hand
But you can hang on i'll find it. That's just easy to find it for you. Um
Okay, there was a watch tower article
um
In which it was
Yeah, there we are
So it's the watch tower of 1984
october 1st
And it's actually the life story of i think carl kline
Who is a former governing body member? He's since died
but
There's a footnote in that watch tower article and again you can find it online on the jw.org website
It actually says in one of the footnotes of the life story of carl kline
Regarding his misguided statements as to what we could expect in 1925 he that's joseph rutherford once confessed to was at bethle
quote
I made an ass of myself
so rutherford
apologized or
Made conciliatory remarks to people at bethle
But he never wrote in the publications to wall run confiled joevers witnesses. My bad. I made an ass of myself
He was too proud to do that obviously, but
Yeah, if it was a private conversation to his minions at bethle, he was he was willing to joke about it
wow
That tells you a lot about how they are and that's just
And then never ends it's still going on. I think it's hilarious the guy that we talked about who talks like this
And uh, I don't even know his name. What's the guy's name who does that?
What who talking about he does the oh, steven let
Yes, and he's talking about
We're part of the end of the end end or how does it go he said final part of the final part of the last stage? Yeah
Yeah, i'm like, oh lord. I wonder what's gonna happen in 20 30 years. You know how they're gonna view this guy's like
win again, okay, um
So I went to the jw.org website and I cannot seem to find any watch tower publications prior to 1950 and awake
1970 I mean
It's not like these guys cannot afford
Uh, the hosting or bandwidth or whatever you want to call it technology, etc
Why do you think they capped it at 1950 and not allow current joevis witnesses to access old publications?
because it's embarrassing because if witnesses can do research into
Everything that the quote-unquote faithful slave has ever produced then they'll come across all of this stuff and it will
Be immediately transparent that far from being god's channel
um
This is a man-made religion that that makes it up as it goes along and frequently gets it wrong and
What you will often find jahoba's witnesses say confronted with this material is they'll say oh well
That's just old light. You know, we've moved on since then
It was wrong then but it's right now. Well, they had the similar mentality
In 1925, of course, they were saying similar things. I'm sure about the 1914 prediction. Oh, well, it was wrong in 1914
But it's right now now. We're in 1920 whatever
and also
It is relevant if you are a jahoba's witness to research this material because let's not forget it was in 1919
According to jahoba's witness believes that jesus
invisibly conveniently
Chose the organization to be his faithful slave. So the question should then be asked
What was so impressive about the organization back in 1919 that caught his eye that was
That made it so that he had to choose this organization in particular to be his faithful slave
You know, the organization isn't shy when it comes to
Promoting certain cherry-picked examples of how great it was in yesteryear. Why are they the only ones who get to interpret?
Watched our history. Why not let watched our history interpret itself?
Especially when you have this claim that the organization was chosen by jesus in 1919
Okay, let's see what they were predicting in 1919. Shall we?
And things soon start to unravel when you follow that line of argument
Interesting
It is interesting. And so I just so we're fair
What do you think the jahoba's witnesses will say about why they're not publishing things before
1950 or whatnot
I've no idea. I mean
They've never said anything. This is the problem. They're not transparent. They as far as they're concerned
They owe no one an explanation if they if they felt they owed anyone an explanation
They would have given an explanation
But this is the problem that they are completely lacking in transparency
In a number of areas by the way, this just being one of them and they consider themselves answerable to no one
So I'm convinced it's because they're embarrassed
What who knows what their argument would be? I would love to hear it. I'd love to hear it
Me too. Me too because I can only imagine
Lloyd Evans, we've got a 1975 felt prophecy as well and the slogan stay alive till 75
I could see that sounding like a good juvie little uh jazz song or something
So can you tell us what happened in 1975 or at least what the
Tell you what didn't happen
I can tell you what didn't happen
I love it. Yeah, so so this was
a prediction that was made in the book
Life Overlasting in Freedom of the Sons of God. There it is
published in 1966
And it was a
Really bizarre
It's difficult to even explain how they arrived at 1975. It all had to do with again the
types and anti types
In the view of the leaders at that time everything in the bible had to have a grander fulfillment
So if it mentioned something
In the old testament about a jubilee year celebration
There must be a grander meaning behind it and they decided that it all had to do with how many thousands of years we were from
The start of man's existence
I'm not sure whether my camera is going to pick it up, but they publish a table
Yeah, oh wow, but right at the bottom of this table
You're probably not going to be able to pick it up there, but right at the bottom. It says
1975 and of the sixth one thousand year day of man's existence
And then in brackets in early autumn to be precise
um
and
They were very it was very interesting the way they
phrased things
so
They said how appropriate it would be
For jahovah god to make of this coming seventh period of a thousand years a Sabbath period of rest and release
A great jubilee Sabbath for the proclaiming of liberty throughout the earth to all its inhabitants
This would be most timely for mankind. So it was very
Nudge nudge wink wink
We're not saying it's 1975
But it's 1975
Yeah, and and so this was essentially that the tone of the publications at that period and
You had in other examples in the magazines and in the newsletters the our kingdom ministry newsletters
You know very overt calls for people to
You know sell their businesses
Quit their jobs
Just throw everything into the preaching work
Because the ends coming imminently and when we say imminently
You want to stay alive till 75 was what charles synod co said
In the talk that you referred to so
this again was was a very clear prediction and
The frustrating thing was they never apologized for this
They published. I think in 1980
Ironically ray france claims to have actually penned the apology
And it would it would have been far more
It would have been far more of an apology
He claims if he'd have been allowed to have the final say over what how it was worded
But they came up with some
Some way of reasoning their way through the whole thing and just trying to
Shug the whole thing off
as essentially, you know one or two
You know, maybe we've gone a bit too far
But ultimately no one should be serving with a date in mind, etc. etc
And and recently in a recent convention. I'm trying to think exactly which one. I think it was the 2017
Don't give up convention
they even
Created some dramatizations, which you can see on the jw.org website
Where they
portray this period in the organization's history and they outright blame it
On a few individuals getting carried away
With their bible study
But you know, you've put it in a bloody table
You know in this book
And pointed to it and said wouldn't it be nice? Wouldn't it be appropriate timing?
If something significant were to happen in this year, what else are people going to think if you're then attaching to that?
suggestions that people should be
you know selling their homes and
quitting their businesses and what what have you to to preach that the end is near so that was the whole 1975 debacle
They made a prediction
It didn't come true and rather than own up to the whole thing which they should have done
They instead blamed it on people who who took them at their word
Yeah, the zealous witnesses as they it seems like they're like oh, they were overzealous. That's all you know
Jt and lady see they they have a critical thinking xjw youtube channel and
Jt said in when I interviewed him which I got to do an interview again with them
They're just really wonderful people and he said I have a lot of respect for people in 1976 who left the organization
I mean, he said the guys who left then who didn't have internet
Who didn't have all that we have the evidence that we have the way that we have it?
When that didn't come to pass and they left
He said I got a lot of respect for those people because that's very difficult to do to accept that they're they literally
felled and
This organization is not worth staying in
That that means a lot, you know what I mean?
So I I can totally get why because there's people who find out stuff like this
But they still shove it and suppress it down and they don't allow it to affect their
Life and what they're doing in the JW church, they just keep pressing on
It's easier to keep going following the rest of the sheep than it is to try and leave and
You know get a new life if that makes sense. Well, a lot of people left but a lot of people stayed, you know
More people stayed than should have
hence the organization is
Is is what it is today? I mean
Really everyone should have left shouldn't they or it should have been reduced to just a few hundred
crazy zealots, but even though they did have a decline and incidentally
The figures for 2020 were the first decline since
The fallout from 1975 in Watchtower figures. So it's happening again now
Interesting. Yeah
Yeah, there was a dip in figures, but then then the figures went up again
It's shameful really and and it's an indictment on how
Easily people can be persuaded to stick with something. It's essentially the the sunk cost fallacy if you've
Committed, you know decades of your life potentially to a religion
You're going to be more forgiving than someone who's only just got involved, aren't you because
You've already invested so much you have more to lose if it turns out that you're being lied to so
You kind of don't want to be lied to
Yeah, so you can literally cognitive dissonance can kick into hyperdrive
I see it that may note and just poking I got to say this before we move on to the next thing
Um
This goes to show why Mormonism survived even though joseph smith died out and all the crazy stuff
He did he could have been caught red-handed and Mormonism would still be alive
It goes to show you why the new testament christianity at least continued after
This goes to show
Even if it's failed
This thing still can be alive a movement already started
There's already vested interest and people already persuaded and therefore they're not going to let it down
And it always shows how people want to continue to reinterpret the meaning of things
Oh, he came he just it was invisible. You could he was behind that cloud there. You couldn't see it
Or whatever, you know what I mean? So it just goes on and on and it goes to show
So
Yeah, okay 1989
There was a goof up
And this is gold. I think
I say is gold because growing up in the 80s and 90s as believing Jehovah's Witnesses
Uh, we or if you will david who who wrote this excerpt here is my family and even family friends
Would not have even dreamt for one second that this wicked system would ever go past the year 2000
Yeah, so this was interesting because uh, it actually
The example that david has pointed to I actually have done a video on this
I think I called it the 1989 goof up or something along those lines
Uh, this is an interesting one because
It simultaneously shows
How terrible they are at predicting Armageddon and
How deceptive and disingenuous they are
Because what happened was they predicted it and then immediately covered their tracks
So and when I say immediately, I mean
It made its way into
The printed watch tower magazine
Um, but they I'm just trying to find the exact page. Ah, here we are. So here is the watch tower magazine in question
So that's the 1989 january 1st watch tower
and um
This is the page that I'm going to read from
Just just I don't know whether you know, your camera is going to pick this up. Yeah, we can't read it. But yeah
It's it's the middle. Um
The middle paragraph is what I'm going to read from basically if you go on my channel
I do a whole video where I show I showed that I'm not conning people and I'm not making this up
So in the original magazine that people that Jehovah's Witnesses were distributing in 1989
It said
It was talking about the apostle Paul Paul went on to make
Three recorded missionary tours plus his journey to Rome as a prisoner
In the course of these he opened up the work in several cities in europe and preached the kingdom message in countries
And islands that today are known as Syria Cyprus Crete Turkey Greece Malta and Sicily
He may even have reached spain
He helped establish congregations in many cities
What was the secret of his effective missionary activity? Actually, I've read the wrong paragraph
um the paragraph before says
The apostle Paul was spearheading the christian missionary activity. He was also
laying a foundation for a work that would be completed
in our
20th century
So the preaching work will be completed
In the 20th century. Why does it need to be or why will it be completed? Obviously
Because armageddon's come, you know, they they were writing in 1989 whoever wrote this was clearly saying
There's no way we're going to get to the end of this century and armageddon hasn't come
What's interesting is when you look up the same paragraph
Um, it says the apostle Paul on jw.org by the way
It says the apostle Paul was spearheading the christian missionary activity
He was also laying a foundation for a work that would be completed in our day
So they've changed it from
It's going to be completed in in our 20th century to
It's going to be completed in our day, which could mean anything
So they how long after they printed that one to the new one exactly
It was quite quickly because
If you look up any bound volume and they create the bound volumes
So the bound volume is when they take like these magazines and they literally bind them all together
For a given year
And in any 1989 bound volume it will say
completed in our day
Which is what they've done here. So literally by the end of 1989 and this was published in january
They'd realized this was a monumental fudge up. Don't worry
We'll edit it in the bound volume
You know
But the problem is of course that they were printing millions of copies of this thing and inevitably someone was going to keep hold of one of them
And inevitably of the many copies that that were saved one of them was going to find its way to me
Or to or to another xjw youtuber so they could show it on their channel and say look i'm not making this up here it is
Interesting. Yeah, it sounds like every single time something happens. It doesn't happen
What woke up david's dad and you know, I wish david was able to be here, but it's like, I don't know
230 in the morning in australia
So what woke up david's dad only recently after 48 years
In the borg the generation of 1914 that will never pass away. Lloyd. Can you explain this?
Yeah, so
You know, this was
Repeated in so many publications
um
Probably one of the best examples. I was going to say if you have it that'd be awesome
Uh is the live forever book. So the live forever book was what I
Kind of grew up studying as a young jahovas witness
This was the study book that they would take you through in order to advance you to
baptism
And the prediction was i'm just going to flick through until I actually find the illustration, but the prediction was
Okay, we're not going to give you an exact date for armageddon
But here's what we will say
the generation of people who were alive in 1914
And able to discern that the last days had begun in that year
They will not die out
Before armageddon comes. Do you have this publication here by the way?
Yeah, I've got that in my that's I've got that magazine in my bound volumes
I just figure I'd show it because I think this is in the vein of what you're talking about
So this is this is an interesting one as well because so you can see there
This is a watchtower from 1984
And they're showing a bunch of bethalites
Who all of whom were born before 1914 all of them
And and what what you can actually find if you google this image
Is that people have actually
Shown you people are showing you what these people's names were
And bear in mind the title of the magazine is 1914 the generation that will not pass away
They're pointing to these literal people who were Jehovah's Witnesses in 1984 and saying
You know a good number of these folks
Basically are going to walk straight through into armageddon because that's how close we are
Wow
What's interesting is that you can find a graphic if you google that image
Where someone's gone to the time in trouble of saying, okay, this individual born
1912 died
1989 you know and they've gone through each and every one of them to show they're all dead
You've literally put these people
On a magazine effectively saying this group of people aren't going to die before armageddon comes. They're all dead
um
and here is the
Image in the you can probably just see at the bottom of the page there
Yeah in bold it says armageddon
Well, just to the left just to the left it says 1914
and the
The caption says
Some of the generation living in 1914 will see the end of the system of things and survive it
So it's there in black and white and that was what I was raised
Believe
yeah
Wow, and so you were raised believing that but
weren't you after
I mean, did they when when did all these people die out?
That's a good question. Like when did every single one of these people no longer live? Oh the
Seriously, it's just a it's just a case of googling the image and it literally lists all of you if you're talking about that particular illustration
Someone's gone to the trouble of telling you who these people are and and when they died, but the point is they
They weren't giving a date, but they were saying
within the time frame of of this generation not just people who were born before 1914, but who were old enough
To figure out that this was when the last days had begun or noticed that the last days have begun
This generation will not die out and they changed the teaching in 1995
It's undergone a number of teachings since then
I think it was 2010 when they came up with the existing teaching
Which is referred to by extra hovers witnesses as the overlapping generation
So what they literally now say is and and they've actually gone to the trouble of
Doing it on a pointy with a pointy stick on a on a chart in one of the JW broadcasting episodes
What they now say is okay. So this was one generation that witnessed the events of 1914
but this generation
overlaps
With people who are of the anointed class who are still alive now
So what they're essentially saying is you can have multiple parts of a generation
Just just enough parts to cover Armageddon, I guess maybe we'll only need two
So
Which obviously is is butchering the meaning of the word generation, you know, if if I say
You know
in
In Robert Price's generation
Armageddon's gonna come, you know, and and Robert Price dies. Hopefully not not too soon. Yeah
Um
You know people are going to be saying hang on a minute. What was that? What was that prediction you made, Lloyd?
Uh, doesn't seem to be coming true. Yeah. Um, so it was a blatantly false prophecy and
You know, let's be clear. I was raised on this. I got baptized
You know, this was one of the issues that I had to basically
Declare my belief regarding to an elder when I was going through my questions
um
And the basically the religion was able to move the goalposts
But you're still held to the pledge that you made
When you were being taught this
So I was I was I was baptized at the age of 11
And I'd studied the live forever book and this was the teaching that I was pledging myself to
And they were allowed to change the teaching between 1995 and 2010
To the point where oh, we don't know. It's kind of overlapping. I guess
Um, but I'm not allowed to say
I'm out. You know, this is this is wrong. You know, you guys are making this up as you go along
Without being punished
By having my by being estranged from my family
It's it's very very wrong the way they get to move the goalposts
But everyone is held to
That dedication that they've made to the organization for life
They're not allowed to change their minds
This is an interesting organization and I say that because they're very
eschatology-minded very and unlike most christianity most of christianity kind of defangs
The apocalypse in
Some push it like it's coming soon. Don't get me wrong. There's a lot of fundamentalist dispensationalists
You think the rapture's any day now the third temple in jerusalem is going to be built like, you know, they're just always something
But if you want my personal
Blame I do I do want it. I'm gonna blame give it to me. All right
The bible
The bible is the source
I mean it opens up telling it like it is I got to man. Matthew 16 27 through 28
For the son of man is going to come with his angels in the glory of his father
And then he will repay each person according to what he has done
Truly, I say to you there are some standing here
To who go a couple verses before 27 because I only got that reference here. He's talking to his disciples
There are some of you standing here who will not taste death
Till they see the son of man coming in his kingdom and people try to go to the trans the transfiguration as an explanation for this
Passage because it's in the next chapter. Nobody died. So why bring that up?
Nobody's dead between chapter now and chapter then it's just it's obvious
c.s. Lewis who said that if Jesus didn't believe that the second coming was going to come, you know
Within a short period
He was some kind of sadist or some kind of psychopath
Because that's what he was whipping people into a frenzy over the idea that it would be
Any moment now that there's no hint in anything that he's saying
That he was referring to something that would happen
Hundreds or even thousands of years in the future. There's just no hint of it. It's all going to happen now
You guys are gonna see it yourself. You know, yep
He talked about this generation which people try to reinterpret the meaning like you just talked about and I mean
I always when I do these jw discussions, I always try to reference back to christianity
Itself not jw's or something I get the jojovis witness person because they know jojovis witness
But I point it back to my own christianity because I had dreams
You know, you guys aren't the only ones who had to suffer from this kind of stuff, you know, now, of course
Far more of a high control group the cult you guys dealt with was far more
damaging with respect to controlling people's lives, but man
These these teachings alone when they
Cause you to separate yourself from even in your own house
You can't help but think your dad's gonna go for me
I'm gonna go to hell because he's not confessed or or received the holy spirit and at that time it was speaking in tongues
That was a sign that you had it was speaking in tongues in gibberish. That was where I was at in this
So I just look at the new testament
And ask anyone who's watching who hasn't
You know considered these things
Look and see how they
May not have happened how they kept thinking it was going to happen then
Paul does this other books say it is the last hour
You know, we talk about the end of the end or what's his name?
The let whatever guy a final part of the final part. Yeah
Dude in the in the like 30 years
The final part of the final part of that final part is here and it's just not gonna stop
Well, look in in 30 40 years
There'll be other other people entirely from us
Having this same conversation going through all of these dates
And they'll be adding steven let on to it. You know that they're they're still doing it now, but I take your point
Um, it's not just Jehovah's witnesses who who do this
I do think that
You know, there's a limited number of of groups who
push this thinking
To such a damaging degree that you know that families are
Are literally broken up. I'm sure that there is shunning in in other non Jehovah's Witness fundamentalist Christian groups
But to have shunning not just mandated
You know, so you have to shun whether you like it or not essentially, but also depicted in heart-tugging
propaganda videos
You know, that's taking things to like a whole other level you could say but I take your point, you know that this
This isn't an issue
That this kind of constant date setting fixation with with the end of the world
is an issue
beyond Jehovah's Witnesses and I think there's an element of
Self-fulfilling prophecy because of course if you think that the end is coming any moment
You're going to be less invested
in efforts to engage meaningfully with
um, for example
combating climate change and
Trying to make the most of of our opportunities now to you know to save our planet and to
And to leave something for future generations to inherit and make make use of
You know, you're going to be less bothered about those sorts of initiatives if you think
The earth is going to be destroyed any moment
There's an element of self-fulfilling prophecy because you're in difference towards, you know, these these
Struggles now can lead to the earth being being rendered uninhabitable because not enough people care
That's true. That's why I keep blaming the text
I mean don't get me wrong the religious systems are there but think critical about these texts
Because they thought it was going to happen then and for those of you who want to go
Oh, no, no, no, haven't you read the verse a day is like a thousand years and even the son of man doesn't know the day or hour
Yeah, the same son of man tells you been saying that for hundreds of people have been saying that for hundreds of years
Hundreds of years at what point
Do we say?
Actually, it's all a load of bollocks, you know
Yeah, what point at what point does the penny drop and we realize that this stuff isn't to be trusted as a guide to
What's happening or going to happen?
And I always tell like the within the sandbox of that thinking
You can argue he doesn't know the day or hour sure but he went ahead and attempted in Matthew 24 and Luke 17 Luke 21
I think it was Luke 17 or Luke 21. Anyway, it's the same apocalyptic synoptic comparison
And anyway, he gives the season
He may not give the day and the hour
But he tells you the things that are going to come and all this stuff and that was back then
Not now and there's good reason to think some of the stuff was written after the events of the destruction of the Jerusalem temple
For very good reasons. So thinking critical about that. You won't be keep date setting in the 21st century
And you can move on with your life. I mean, there's there's a way to really enjoy it
So with that being said Lloyd, I ask that
Do you think and this is a prediction guess on your part?
Do you think that the Jehovah's Witness church because it's not a very old church? I mean, it's only been around for how long?
since it's start
I mean, not what they claim that they come you've got to be a bit careful because
Bible students don't like you saying that Charles Taze Russell founded Jehovah's Witnesses, but
Come on. He founded the watch tower organization, which later rebranded as Jehovah's Witnesses 1879
Okay, so we're looking at 150 years give or take
Yeah, uh existing of a church. How much longer do you think this church has before it stops doing all of this apocalyptic stuff?
It's built off of that, but I mean
It's complicated. I think that um religions can basically last infinitely
um Charles Taze Russell
was a crackpot
Who believed that the inches in the passages of the pyramid of geyser
If measured hinted at periods of time in bible prophecy
He believes that the skin of the Ethiopian in other words black people
Their skin would turn white
Um in god's kingdom
He had all sorts of
outrageous obnoxious ideas
And yet you can still summon hundreds of people
around the world in the 21st in in
2021
Who follow his teachings who are bible students who identify as russellites not Jehovah's Witnesses
Followers of Charles Taze Russell
So if that if those people are still around
you know
Over a hundred years after this guy died
You know Jehovah's Witnesses. I'm sorry to say they're with us in some form or other potentially for hundreds of years
The question is will the organization be around in an identifiable
form and
That's a different question. I think because it's one thing to have kind of groups of people huddled together
You know in you know in far-flung parts of the world who hold a candle for this crap
It's another thing entirely to have a multi-million dollar or a multi-billion dollar
organization making hd videos and printing magazines and books and what have you
um
I think that the the days are numbered for
The organization because I just think it wasn't equipped or built or designed
for the 21st century
when there is the internet and when there is google and there is
people able to
draw on resources that instantly debunk the teachings
I think that it's already in its death row as I mentioned that
Last year we saw the first decline in Jehovah's Witness numbers in 42 years since the fallout from
5 so
That you know the omens are already there that they're on the decline
Um, how long it will take who knows whether they will go bankrupt or not who knows
Um, I think in some form or other we will have Jehovah's Witnesses for potentially centuries
Interesting
Thank you so much everybody go subscribe to Lloyd's youtube channel
Of course and Lloyd is there a way that they can help as our patron?
What do you have in ways that they can help but you and your tasks?
Oh, right. So, yeah, I do have uh, patreon. It's patreon.com forward slash
cedars
The channel is uh, Lloyd Evans
Yeah, I I have I think over 600 patrons now and they're supporting my work
And I have a video editor which makes things makes things so much easier just bought a new camera as well
um, which um, yeah
Uh, it's amazing what CGI can do, isn't it? Yeah
But but no, it's uh, yeah, there's there's lots of ways to find me. I'm conspicuous on social media
Many would say too conspicuous
Well, ladies and gentlemen, please go help Lloyd Evans out with this. I really appreciate you man
You're awesome
Taking the time to come on myth vision podcast and to tackle fell prophecies with the Jehovah's Witness church
Ladies and gentlemen hit like on this video. Go check out his stuff like comment
It grows the channels the algorithm loves it
And um, I hope to see you again here once again, Lloyd. We can do this again. So
It would be my pleasure
All right, ladies and gentlemen, we
are
Myth vision allegedly
If
You
