There are hundreds of videos that haven't been launched on YouTube on
Patreon. Make sure you guys join the Patreon to help us grow. We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision podcast. Your host, Eric Lambert. Early Mormonism,
Joseph Smith. We have David Fitzgerald here, author of the complete
Heretics Guide to Western Religion, The Mormons. Get the book, guys. Make sure you guys check it out.
For sure. It's a fun, interesting book. He likes to highlight some of the obvious, really
how to put this. It's kind of an airplane view, but there's sometimes you magnify in on great
details. And I think some important stuff that is evidence that this is BS. And that's pretty much
David's angles. You want to find the most obnoxious, crazy, like obvious stuff to say,
this is a BS thing. You want to definitely check out this book. He also has a Patreon. You guys
can join. Be participants in that. Go ahead and help him grow it. I hope you do. And then we have
Bryce Blankenegle. He is the host of Naked Mormonism podcast. Kind of tired of mentioning that you're
naked at this point. It's like, it's like, don't you know this? I never get tired of being naked. So
yeah, that's on you, man. That's on you. He's trying to live the garden of Eden days and
not think that he is naked, but he wants you to know it is about moving back to Jackson County,
Missouri. Exactly. Makes you guys go check out his Patreon right now. You can join it for free.
And then when he starts to come back, it's only a dollar per episode. And that's hours of content.
But right now, there's hundreds and hundreds of hours of content. You guys can access joining
in there and checking it out. You want to really examine and like zoom in with your microscope.
This is the episode for you and the dynamics of the history of what was going on like exhaustively.
That's what you do with Bryce. Make sure you guys check it out because I'm fascinated with this
stuff. These shows have been great. The last episode, you guys exposed him like the book of
Abraham and these like people are conning the con artist at this point.
You're getting played. That's right. Yeah, literally true. Yep.
What happens from here? I mean, we spent some time on that. We talked about Port of Rockwell.
Things are back in order. He's the he's now in charge of like people getting drunk. They create
a little separate place. Everyone's having fun. And it seems like things are going good for the
prophet and his religion. And even though he's getting played like left and right with like
little funny, but none of that's stopping him. He is a freight train who runs right through it all
and keeps going. And but the end of the tracks isn't that far off either. This is 1843, 1844,
and the clock is ticking. Yeah. And like there are individual stories that we can pull out.
Like we did with last episode in the salter and the kinder plates and stuff. And they're funny.
And there are there are times there are periods of Mormon history that are kind of eras of good
feeling where the scandals cool off for a little while and things are just businesses going about
as usual and things are good and cool and all right. But the entire year of 1844 is marked by
scandal after scandal after scandal to the point that Joe can no longer control the scandals.
And and that all of the stuff that he's been running from for years all begins to catch up.
And he begins also in order to continue to run from these, he continues to increase his
aspirations and his goals. And he continues to try and elevate himself to higher and higher levels
in order to escape all of the things that he's responsible for. And this is a pretty common
theme in this guy's life, right? When he's responsible, when when his responsibilities
come up, he runs, he runs from problems, he runs from responsibilities, whether that's
the multiple exoduses that he led the Mormons through, whether that's surrendering in the face
of inevitable defeat, whether that's, you know, the births of his children, he decides to leave
town when Emma's giving birth every single time, whether it's land deeds, and people asking him,
hey, where's that check? Where's the money that you owe me? And him attacking the postal service
because he's saying that Sidney Rigdon is holding his letters and that, you know, these he's not
getting noticed that these people are trying to collect on the debts. He just continues to try and
run and continues to try and expand. And it's very clear that Joseph Smith understands at this point
that if he is able to build up his empire enough, and to make himself untouchable enough,
that he's never going to be held accountable or responsible for anything. And that is a dangerous
path that that path only has a couple of possible conclusions. And that is tyranny or death that
there there isn't really a middle ground because there's no de-escalation factor. It's only more
and more escalation and this increasing feedback loop of danger and damage and totalitarian rule.
And that's that's a very scary path to find oneself on. And it's even more scary to watch
people walk that path because there's no there's no raining it in. There's no stopping them.
Like these people clearly proved to hundreds of Mormons that were standing in front of them
that Joseph Smith is a fraud and the dude is bulletproof. It doesn't it doesn't matter add
into that. Nauvoo is getting dangerously large as well. We have a lot of that is to we we give
thanks to Brigham Young for right because Brigham Young and the apostles had gone to Europe and
they established the immigration fund, which allowed people to charter a ship and gets from Europe
to Nauvoo for the sum total of four four British pounds. And by early 1844 the number of immigrants
who would come in from Europe was somewhere around five to eight thousand people. It's a lot of people
that that Brigham Young was able to get to join the church to get baptized and to get coordinated
to cross the ocean and to get to Nauvoo and to bring any money any provisions that they can any
expertise that they can and anything that they could bring to help build up the Mormons.
Brigham Young was responsible for getting those people there and it should be noted that these
people trusted Brigham Young a lot more than they trusted most of the other Mormon leadership.
Brigham Young as president of the Quorum of Apostles put up this front of organization.
Everything is cool. We are we are a new dispensation. We are a biblical Christianity with
a little extra addendum to it. We are just yeah just a little extra. That's all. Brigham Young was
the United Front that that was very appealing to Europeans who were caught up in the system of
industrialization in in large swaths of Europe and who were being left behind and who wanted to
go back to a more agrarian lifestyle. Nauvoo and America offered that to these people and they
wanted it. So they came over and drove and Brigham Young was able to sell that package to them
and they saw him as the the the the stable guy that they could rally behind that they could follow.
He was he was like the anti-Joseph Smith. Joseph Smith was the the flashy guy with a smile who
would tell you these great stories. Brigham Young was none of that. He was just a square slab of a
dude who was just work hard and make it happen and just do it by the numbers and solid as a rock.
Yeah and and every movement needs somebody like that to be second in command or to be close to
the person who's you know the charisma brings the people in. The organization keeps them there.
Brigham Young was the second part of that equation and he continues to grow in power and influence
in the Mormon community as more and more of these Europeans immigrate to Nauvoo and in early 1844
this is this is huge and Nauvoo by this time Nauvoo itself is something like 15,000 people.
Chicago was like 3,000 people at this time. Nauvoo is massive a massive massive city truly
remarkably large. Now Nauvoo today most of the city of Nauvoo is owned by the Mormon Church right
because there's this guy who in the early 1900s went about purchased a ton of land of these
Old Mormon artifact lands and this is what they were building. This is what they were creating.
This is the Nauvoo temple and this is a picture that I personally took. This is in Nauvoo. They
have reconstructed this temple because it had never truly completed construction and it was
struck by a number of natural disasters as well as arson and eventually the whole thing crumbled.
They recreated this and dedicated it in the year 2000 and Nauvoo itself the city of Nauvoo now is
just a Mormon tourist attraction. Let me find a better picture of actual Nauvoo. Yeah there's the
temple right? It's a remarkably large building and Nauvoo itself is it's a small farming town
but in 1844 this place was massive right? Well you know I was pretty excited to get into Nauvoo
what can I say? I was like I'm finally here. So there's all of these artifacts and all these
cool things in Nauvoo now all owned by the church. And those two on the horseback the statue that's
Joseph and Hyrum, isn't it? That is correct. This is called the last ride of the prophet or the
prophet's last ride. Yep and we'll be getting to that pretty soon. If we remember our last public
address of the prophet Joseph Smith, Hyrum on the the stand with his sword drawn and the people and
the crowds and the constables and the legionnaires right? Like we're getting close to realizing that
portrait. That picture will soon be a reality for us and this is his last ride right after he gave
that speech. But yeah so Nauvoo itself is a beautiful city now owned by largely by the church
and they have this this museum here that retains a number of artifacts from Nauvoo that begin to
show the grandeur of this place and this shows the westward journey after Nauvoo fell. But they have
you know this is a this is a voting box that they had there and when I posted this on my
Naked Mormonism social media someone commented like the most worthless artifact in Nauvoo because
voting wasn't it wasn't it wasn't a democracy right? Here's Joseph Smith's Nauvoo legionnaire
sword here at the museum and oh sorry this is William Richards' sword not Joseph Smith's
and you know here's some of the the larger figures in early Mormon history. This guy Orson Spencer
we'll talk about him really soon but this guy catalyzed somebody pulling a pistol on Joseph Smith
and almost shooting him in the middle of the street and Porter Rockwell knocked the gun out of
the guy's hand. So Nauvoo it has tons of cool stuff. It's just a really cool city and it was
reaching its height in early 1844 with this you know 15,000 people controlling a ton of political
power. The Masonic Lodge in Nauvoo was ascending more men to be master masons than any other
lodge in America at the time so the number of powerful masons in Nauvoo was also growing and
expanding. Well at the same time the rest of Freemasonry was very pissed off at this very thing.
That's very true and right I also want to say this occurred to me at one point when I was just
thinking back on the recordings that we've done. I don't want people to be like oh Joseph Smith
was a Mason and see that what we're talking about is going to be like Illuminati conspiracy
you know free Masonry controls the world reptilian overlords and anarchy. That's not
that's not where we're going. That's not what we're talking about. The ties between Masonry
and Mormonism are long and well studied and well discussed and well described. The influences of
Masonry on early Mormonism the episodes that I did on it or the first episode I did on it I called
them inextricably tied because they really are a lot of Joseph Smith's early praxis come from
the Masonic initiation ritual. He had intertwinedings with Masonry his entire life his entire ministry
and he was also you know one of his wives was one of the most largest or one of the largest
anti-Mason celebrities in America at the time. So there are a lot of connections between the two
organizations. That's because Joseph Smith was a plagiarist in every possible way and he liked
Masonry. This was just one more mythology that he wove into his tapestry of lies. Yeah and one
of the main things that was appealing about Masonry was the secrecy of it right and Joseph Smith
himself said at one point that the secret to good to Masonry is keeping a secret. So when you're
doing initiation rites where you're mimicking slitting your own throat and disemboweling yourself
if you reveal the secrets of the initiation that obviously comes with all sorts of insulating
practices and beliefs that can be very useful to a warlord like Joseph Smith. Especially when
you're willing to back it up with actual action and actual slitting right through. Exactly exactly
and he just happened to have assassins squads who were willing to do exactly that.
So Masonry in general is very appealing to Joseph Smith and he also got kind of steeped in the
arguments at the time of like spiritual Masonry versus spurious Masonry and practical versus
spiritual and you know people claim that the Book of Mormon itself is an anti-Masonic text.
There are some anti-Masonic sentiments in it but it was more anti-spurious Masonry while championing
practical or spiritual Masonry. So like there's a long and story tradition of these two organizations
being commingled which is all of that is to say when we talk about Masonry and Mormonism please
don't think that we're like falling down the rabbit hole of reptilian overlords. That's not
what we're talking about. This is more like just comparing the Jews and the early Christians to
each other. It's like they have this love-hate relationship because they came out of each other.
Good point. And also I'll note that like the early church leaders very clearly recognize that the
endowment ritual was very similar to the Masonic initiation. Hebra Kimball for example called the
endowment Celestial Masonry. So like in the early years when this was introduced by Joseph Smith
it was well understood that Masonry had a lot of the mysteries of the universe but that the
endowment the Mormon ritual just perfected what was lost since Solomon's temple. Because the common
thought was this came, Masonry even though it came out of like the 16th century 17th century
their own mythology said no this came out of this temple of Solomon you know goes back thousands of
years complete bullshit but nonetheless that was their official story and so it for Mormons the
fact that it was overlap didn't bother them at all because they were actually taking the real
Solomon temple rituals and perfecting it as you say. They were giving you the straight dope that
the masons only have like a shadow of a counterfeit of. And what's really remarkable in this too is
how quick people are to lose institutional knowledge because that first generation of Mormons
were all dead by the early 1900s and by that time the ties between Masonry and Mormonism had
basically been culturally forgotten and it wasn't until the 1960s that a scholar wrote an article
and presented it at BYU that was a groundbreaking article illustrating the similarities between
Masonry and Mormonism that the concept of those two organizations being tied together re-entered
the consciousness of Mormon academic scholarship. So in just the span of 50 to 60 years that
information was lost to an entire culture and it had to be reintroduced by an academic who was later
excommunicated. It's funny because 1960s 1980s there are things that we learned about Mormonism
that came out of their own archives their own historical museums that just blow it wide open
wide open. And we have Leonard Arrington to thank for a lot of that. Leonard Arrington was the last
official church historian who occupied the office of church historian they abolished it
after his tenure was up but he basically hired a reasonably large team of historians to help
document and archive everything in the church catalog and archives and he opened up the vaults
to the researchers and that was the birth of what came to be known as New Mormon history.
He and Richard Bushman catalyzed this idea of New Mormon history that was then shut down
by Boyd K. Packer and a few apostles and this is all very recent in Mormon history.
And Leonard Arrington's diaries talk about the infighting between his office and his group of
historians and the apostles who were trying to squash that information keep it from going out.
Anyway lots of rabbit holes. Anyway so to get back into 1844 right we're going to do our best
to try and navigate back into this 1844 Joseph Smith was powerful and dangerous and massively
wealthy also massively in debt. A lot of people were wanting him a lot of people a lot of creditors
wanted him. The whole state of Missouri wanted to bring him back and make him see some form of
justice vigilante or otherwise. There were a lot of people who wanted an ill fate for Joseph Smith
and that includes people within his own inner circle because as discussed before there were
these competing factions in the church there were the pro polygamy secret group secret combinations
one might say of Joseph Smith and Brigham Young and Heber Kimball and William Clayton and these
leaders are all on the pro polygamy side and then there's the anti polygamy side that's largely
led by the laws the fosters in the Higbees. These three you know or these three sets of brothers
are leading the anti polygamous charge. And also coming into contact with information that
polygamy is far more vast and well known than they originally suspected. They thought it was all
rumors but now Joseph Smith is presenting to the High Council the polygamy revelation and
there's a lot of infighting that's going on. And again before this it's complete top secret only
the upper leaders know about this. Everybody else is just here's rumors and sees what they see
but officially on paper in sermons oh no it's there's no such thing. No such yeah no no and
especially you know for print outside of Navu the Mormons were working tirelessly to spread the
propaganda that they were a monogamous religion. And when news broke out when the weight of rumor
just collapsed and they and they did make public announcements it was a huge egg on the face for
the church and on Brigham Young and they lost thousands of new converts who just said oh yeah
we're not going we're out. They also gained a lot of converts who were like oh but let me tell them
yeah cool let's do it. Yeah let's go to Mexico everybody. Yeah so so these there are a lot of
these forces that are coming into play. Also Joseph Smith begins to heavily leverage one of his
buddies as a ghostwriter and this guy is Phelps, William Mines Phelps, W.W. Phelps. He's a long
time been one of Joseph's scribes and ghostwriters but this guy begins taking on the establishment
of politics under the name of Joseph Smith in public print. So there are these endless tirades
about the death of the Whig party and how the Democrats are not actually good and how we should
absorb Texas and Oregon and we should you know aggressively expand American expansion campaign.
And these are all written by Phelps himself but they're all given the name of Joseph Smith and
published in The Times of Seasons. And then a few times Phelps even takes on specific politicians
like Henry Clay and James Cahoon and these these national well-known politicians some of which
are you know the the second generation after the founding fathers most of them are. Joseph Smith's
name starts to appear in print in tirades against these politicians. Now Thomas Sharp of the Warsaw
Signal right the founder of the anti-mormon party the guy who's been the watchdog on the tower the
guy who saw the military parade and was like oh crap the Mormons are a huge problem. This guy
he's responding to each and every one of these tirades and in almost all of them he says when
will Joseph Smith just throw his name into the presidential pool to run for POTUS and says it
over and over and finally in February 1844 Joseph says I am running for president. He descends down
Let's pause for a moment. Joseph Smith says I am running for president and make sure that
altered the history for him. He walks down the golden gilded steps of the Naboo mansion and
yeah surrounded by a huge house party and that's not too far off of how it happened but he does
announce I'm both I'm running for president. It's a uniform sword on his side yep that's right
this is looking like a million bucks. It's kind of like it's kind of like the rock you know talking
about he's running for president it's like what or even better uh what's his name um the rapper uh
that just was talking about Kanye yeah yeah they both have mental problems too so it's like okay you
know interesting oh man yeah but if you think about it though the office of president of the
united states especially after Andrew Jackson had just left you know two two sessions ago
it was so appealing for a narcissistic sociopath like Joseph Smith and the presidential pardon
one way if you are if you are able to keep all of these creditors and all of these people who
have criminal convictions against you at bay for long enough for yourself to become president
and then you just pardon yourself after four or eight years like all of those problems go away
right that's the ultimate I win you get elected president right yeah I I I say nothing I say nothing
it's here no evil scene no evil speak no evil right it's it's just amazing how different things
were back then it's all I can say that's the different way yeah but so there are a few angles
to consider when we're talking about Joseph Smith's presidential campaign right and when he did
announce like the the nationwide print caught fire everybody's announcing oh the Mormon prophet the
Mormon moses is running for president everybody's losing their mind so phelps writes a presidential
pamphlet that lays out Joseph Smith's campaign a lot of it is non-committal a lot of it dances the
party lines between wigs and democrats at the time and a lot of is really it's not not that
consequential it's a really boring pamphlet I read through the whole thing on my my podcast
and just went through like the the general arguments that were at the time but what it did
advocate for were two prongs one was aggressive expansion it wanted to annex Texas and Oregon
and to incorporate all of the Mexico territory into down into California as part of the United
States which eventually all that did come to fruition right so it did advocate for aggressive
expansionism and it also advocated for the abolition of slavery which is really interesting
the the specific program that phelps laid out for Joseph Smith's campaign was a basically a
slave buyback system where the government would pay slave owners and basically purchase the slaves
at market value from the slave owners and then allow them to go free but also it would probably
incorporate rental policy like we did with with Mexican immigrants in the 20s 30s and 40s so
all that is to say that there were some things in it that were progressive
some of them were regressive but it was something that spoke to a lot of sensibilities and what a
lot of people wanted at the time so it was a relatively appealing presidential ticket
and Joe begins attacking other candidates his his opponents his political opponents in public
print constantly I just want to say one one little point I even hate to bring it up but
the fact of that he was taking these two of the main political parties of the day
and taking the best of what they were both saying somebody else did that in Berlin in the 30s so
another thing's coming right out of Hitler's playbook right and he he wanted to form his
own party right he wasn't going to run as a wigger a democrat he was forming his own party which
the democrat party had been formed by Andrew Jackson who did that same thing right who took
the elements of the federalist party and of the republican party and was like I kind of want my
own party and he became the jackass right he became the stubborn jackass party of the southern
slave-owning democrats so like that's what happens that's how populist movements work
and and Joseph Smith was seating himself atop this populist movement and was hoping that he had
enough momentum as the Mormon prophet and from all the press from the 1838 Mormon war that
spread his name across national newspaper syndicates he wanted to capitalize on that he hoped that he
had enough momentum to carry him into the White House um and then it's united and then it's united
states of Mormonism that's exactly what I want to say right so that there are a few angles to
consider right because world domination was Joseph Smith's end goal he was going to do whatever he
needed to to achieve that right um and a lot of historians will claim that this was purely a protest
ticket that the Mormons were sick of the democrats and of the Whigs from their whole fiasco in Missouri
from the way that they were treated by the governor of Illinois and from everything that had gone on
that this the Joseph Smith only ran as a protest candidate and that it was just symbolic that he
didn't actually want to do it that's not true he wanted to be president um what he was going to do
with his office is a matter of speculation uh and there are a few ways to look at this
world domination was on his mind the best way that Joseph Smith could think to do that was to
cobble together the oppressed Native Americans and the freed slaves uh and carry war across the
southern states and free the rest of the slaves and then take that war to the White House and
conquer it if he could just get elected to president he could surpass that whole war thing and just
become the most powerful man on earth um and he wanted to do that if he could do that without
himself being in danger he was going to do that um but if he were rejected if he didn't win the
presidency then the all of the options he would have gained so much notoriety you know nationwide
notoriety that he could then use his rejection his loss of the presidential candidate to
catalyze more people as the protest movement as the populist protest movement against the
government and then catalyze that war um and once America was taken over once it was the United
States of Mormonism yeah yeah see like that's a that's a good point that's a good question like
what does this actually look like once Joseph Smith gets elected uh to president or he retains
the presidency or he acquires it by war it doesn't stop at the boundaries of America
he's building Zion the new Jerusalem to be built upon the American continent to begin to rule the
world as Jesus's theocracy right he is putting in the human work necessary to begin the second
coming to be the Mormon Muhammad oh my gosh so there were a couple of things that needed to be
put into order in order for this to to happen uh and uh and a few things one of which was getting
a vice president um he he wanted a few people to run for his vice president and he sent off
multiple letters and everybody's like no no i'm not interested bro sorry uh one he sent to James
Gordon Bennett but found out that that guy was actually born in Ireland so therefore wasn't you
know a worthy candidate uh but then later found out after he had sent the retraction letter of
like oh we offered you the vice president but you found out you're actually born in Ireland so you
can't run so never mind uh but it turns out that he actually was born in America that he was a
viable candidate uh but they didn't send a second retraction of the retraction uh so he didn't get it
so there was a constant battle throughout February March and April 1844 of who's going to be the VP
and nobody wants the job because Joe is he's not a good guy and people know that he's not a good guy
and that they they see that his campaign is doomed he's not a fully viable candidate and because of
all of the previous criminal convictions weighing over his head um who knows what that's actually
gonna look like yeah um wow so he also does use the Missouri persecution and this is a
mainstay of his life he uses the Missouri persecution from the Missouri Mormon War
as the catalyzer uh to get his people more rallied up um so multiple times he prints in the times of
seasons or Phelps prints for him with his name on it uh veiled threats to Missouri that the Mormon
conquest is going to begin in the state of Missouri so obviously the Missouri citizens are like we
got to do everything possible to make sure he's not a viable candidate and they're trying to organize
militias that that can rally behind the Illinois militia when they eventually storm Navu and go
and arrest Joseph Smith um so there's a lot of anti-Joseph Smith sentiment going on in the nearby
cities and in in Missouri and in Iowa and there are a lot of people that really hate this guy and
think that he should rot in prison or be sent to the gallows so the war could have started 20 years
earlier yeah yeah that's that's scary that right like he he had the constituent pieces to start the
civil war yeah he didn't actually implement them but he had the ingredients to start the civil war
in the 1840s instead of the 60s yeah yeah geez dude i mean and and how many people are rallying on
his side at this point like thousands tens well or a couple at least ten maybe outside the church
not so much that's the thing it depends on who you ask though right so uh the Mormons themselves
claimed at this time that they had 300 000 members worldwide um that number is way bonkers outside
of possibility but that's what they claimed and it's it's one of those things that like all you
need to have a boy band is just a group of screaming girls and then you like it just feedbacks and you
get more more of them and you you become the boy band right um so it's the simple claim that there
are 300 000 Mormons goes a long way to leveraging more people to join more people looking into it
more people like who's this joseph smith guy and joining up even though it's it's a fabrication
we're the fastest growing religion in america in the world and they still say that to this day
still say it still say i grew up with that rhetoric i grew up saying that rhetoric not knowing that it
was a lie right um so it's a super huge lie it isn't they are nowhere near the fastest at all
nowhere near they're they're i mean they're top 10 top 10 but that's i mean even that is like
religion across the world is declining everyone yeah yeah um so uh if they weren't having as
babies as fast as they would their numbers wouldn't even be as high as that right yeah the Mormon
the Mormon childbirth rate is uh almost double the american standard childbirth rate like Mormons
have big families that's that's that's born out in the population statistics themselves um so
in all this right so like a few more pieces need to fall into place joseph smith needs to organize
his his people in navu that he knows he can trust the very most um and he's created these
expanding circles of groups of the leadership that he can trust you know with the second anoint or
the anointed quorum uh with the those who are endowed uh with those that he teaches about polygamy
right um so he's expanding this but he wants to consolidate by making yet another layer of the
pyramid up up on top that is going to be the his closest followers his most trusted acolytes um
and also cut out all of the non polygamists all of the anti polygamists from all of this right
wow so he's gonna make it even harder i mean well obviously they are not complying with him it
appears that there's a rift that they cannot mend with this polygamy right which is what caused
thousands of people to leave too once they came out so that is true yeah it was a wedge issue
during the schism crisis primarily uh that that really came to the front during the schism crisis um
so joseph wants to insulate and protect himself from the no men and surround himself by the yes men
and also to make sure that he is able to capably and effectively minimize the influence of the
anti polygamists um so once again the anti polygamists the fosters the higbees and the laws
these groups of brothers um they all have a long history with joseph smith uh they all are converts
pretty early converts um but they all were in navu all in leadership positions of the church
but all of them had come under the scorn of joseph smith for one reason or another
now with the higbees it's because they thought that joe had their dad killed uh and they brought
up those accusations and then joe summarily attacked their characters and uh was able to
successfully brand one of them as a rapist um and was it just completely destroyed his character
that's chancey higbee um and then the fosters uh joseph smith was getting on robert fosters case
for not building the mansion fast enough uh but then they came to learn about the polygamy that
was going on and uh the foster brothers confronted joseph smith like what is going on here uh and he
is like no it's totally not going on but they had incontrovertible evidence and they they building
bedroom after bedroom for yes exactly exactly and not not just bedroom after bedroom but a
stowaway room underneath the stairs in the navu mansion too a little hideaway cabin for him and
whoever happens to go under the stairs with him um and then the laws right joseph smith wanted
jane law uh who was william's wife and emma wanted william as a spiritual husband um uh and the whole
relationship whatever happened there soured and it went south and then the laws were mad about this
uh joseph smith also wanted uh there's some dispute about this but joseph smith also wanted
like one of their daughters or something and at that point wilson law actually drew a pistol on
joseph smith in the navu mansion uh and uh william was able to stop his brother from
shooting the prophet right there on the spot um so these tensions are boiling up in navu there
there is fractional division among the leadership and i want to make one thing that blows my mind
but very clear these guys don't hate joseph smith they don't think he's a false prophet
they think he's a fallen prophet a true prophet of god who is fallen but that's that's how deep
this goes that even though all this stuff's happening even though they're opposing him
they still think that
i lost him go back uh a senate they still think that
they still think that Mormonism is true and that god speaks through him
yeah i hate to break it to you guys but uh i mean wow you know that is fascinating um
just shows how powerful these type of things are a charismatic leader like you mentioned hitler just
to use a perfect example look at how many people followed him and then even when they wanted to
back out they couldn't yeah yeah there comes a point where they can do no wrong because
you know it's like these false dues day prophets you know the the jovis witnesses in the middle
right so they make this claim that oh it's all gonna happen on such and such a day day comes and gone
and things are still here and yet the people who stick around they sure they'll lose people over
that but most of them will double down and go on yeah and it is it's remarkable too that you know
even after joe died in the schism crisis like most of the people bounced around to different
factions of Mormonism yeah they didn't go off and become Lutherans or whatever they they bounced
around some of the stringites and the bickertonites and and the different uh the colorites there's like
there's like 200 splinter groups now by now yeah yeah and and like most of those are also
familial descent too of like the same people who split off in the original schism crisis
it's it's really remarkable and and various fractures i mean it's a huge bush right of
fracture fracture fracture but it's fascinating to see the trajectory of this because like it
starts out improperly enough as this weird little bullshit story becomes this old con artist comes
this thing becomes a thing comes organization and it grows you don't put it back in the box
it's gonna spin out of control it's gonna take over the country and become king of the world
but it's not gonna just stop it it there's a a impetus all its own um and we're watching it
reach the maximum point where it's just spinning breakneck speed and something's gonna happen
something's gotta something has to break it's got you can only push these rules so much you can only
push humans into their sunk cost fallacy for so long before they finally rise up and do something
about good point right um so in all of this right so the the dissent is growing larger um
foster sick bees laws there's also one more character in all of this that is he was one of
the public figures of navu uh for the people uh he was the president of the high council his name
is william marx now i i bring that name up because he is somebody who was really really important
and became a very important figure in the rlbs church uh that was led by joseph's son but william
marx is he was one of those once again one of the stable figures that had a public face of
stability that was very appealing to the people when they saw the leadership spiraling out of control
this is one of the guys who could be an adult in the room and could keep his head on straight about
it so uh william marx is this guy and during the he played a huge role in this gizm crisis
and giving his uh voice of approval to sydney rigdon and it's a huge mess but anyway so joseph
smith uh begins to recognize these guys these anti polygamists as primary detractors his
primary threats and he holds multiple um municipal hearings trying to charge these guys with bogus
charges um because it's not joe's navu municipal court he's able to fabricate witnesses the witnesses
will say whatever he wants he tries and gets uh he tries to get his constables or his his
navu policemen who are the danites with a different name to assassinate them in the middle of the night
um and these guys present evidence that joseph smith tried to have him killed and he's able to
wash it all away he has this huge like faux thing that he brings all of the navu policemen into the
courtroom and was like hey did i ask any of you to assassinate william law and all of them were like
oh no no no we have never we have never had a secret oath with you what are you talking about
and it's it's just paper thin and hilarious um but also in joe's joe's public statements
he's talking about a brutus or a judas among the the people so he's putting the Mormons on edge
making them worried that there's somebody in the leadership ranks who's going to betray the prophet
yeah right and and he's using their fingers pointing everywhere exactly which makes everybody
suspicious of their neighbors um now the people know who they are the the brutus and the judas
know who they are and that's william law and william marks they're the brutus and the judas
so fosters higby's and laws and then william marks those guys are our judices our judas and
our brutus and joe is trying everything he can to discredit these guys to get them vilified by
the community to try and break these people so that they will hopefully just leave him alone
they'll just leave the city and and he ends up icing them out because like these guys are all in
high ranking leadership positions they own a lot of property they own businesses he tells all the
Mormons to not do any business with them he tries to devalue their property like he does
everything to try and break these people um and this goes through the entirety of early 1844
the whole year he is constantly attacking these guys um at the same time that he creates
well the whole first half the whole first half for sure he didn't have a whole lot to say for the
second half of 1844 um so he's like he's vilifying these figures and many of these figures are
trusted members of the community at the same time that he's working behind the scenes to create a
more insular group and that allows us to finally introduce one of the most consequential documents
are artifacts in Mormon history and it is the minute book for the council of 50
uh oh i want to screen share this uh because this is something that has been hidden away
and closed to researchers for over a century and a half this is the minute book for the council of
50 and now it is available on the church's own joseph smith papers dot org this is the church's
own archive they have digitized this entire book and you can read the original handwriting as well
as the entire transcript of it it's been all typed up so this is the cover page of this notebook
it is astounding me how much look at that look at that wow it's astounding to me how much smoking
guns of early Mormon history you can hold your own hands and look at your eyes still today oh sorry
yeah david that was how long it takes for you to actually react so that was like 25 seconds so
start from the beginning it's astounding yeah it's astounding to me how much of early Mormon
history is still in our hands and you can see it with your own eyes today yep look at that i mean
that's just amazing to me um and it's all out in sight it's in plain sight so for the intent of
what so the council of 50 became this super duper hyper awesome secret insular group of
Mormon theocrats the people who were it was their job to build the Mormon theocracy now this is the
title of the council of 50 and this is the minute book right record of the council of 50 or kingdom
of god this was joseph smith's governing body he created in march of 1844 the council of 50
which was to be the system of Mormon government that would replace the three pillars of government
that we have in our constitution of america oh my gosh his council of 50 truly was his own
theocratic government he literally was gonna have control whoever was in any office doing anything
everything was his control imagine all of america one giant utah and utah plus because i mean yeah
well brice we've got five minutes six minutes to the end of this episode and i should have told
you before this but this this is perfect no this is perfect um joseph smith recognized how treasonous
this book was the guy who is responsible for keeping the minutes is william clayton right
and william clayton was a longtime uh joseph smith sycophant supporter scribe for joseph smith
william clayton um his journal is one that is his navu journal is still locked up in church
archives they promise that they're gonna publish it for three years now they publish or they said
back in 2017 they're gonna publish the william clayton navu journal they still haven't done it
because it's full of salacious details about him having a menage toa with his different wives and his
his mother-in-law um and it's it's like it's full of all sorts of cd details but he had uh unprecedented
unparalleled access to the prophet he was always right next to the prophet always writing down
what was going on always as soon as he was done with his official capacity he would go home every
day and write in his own personal journal this guy william clayton is responsible for more navu
documentation than just about any other single individual is he was responsible for keeping
the council of 50 minutes every meeting that they had he kept the record of the council of 50
joseph smith knew how dangerous this book was he knew that if he was caught with this in his
possession this is high treason this is this is treason against the united states by somebody who
was running for president of the united states when joseph smith was carted off to garthage
jail he told william clayton burn or bury the minutes he knew that this would get him sent to
the gallows he knew this was treason he told william clayton to burn or bury the minutes william
clayton buried them and that's how we have it today how did they find it uh after joe's death
william clayton went and and and exhumed the records and then reconstructed them wow guys
think about that you know think about that for a second we mentioned it but like really consider
we if if he would have succeeded and as manipulative as he was in all politics and the way that they
were they would have somehow succeeded what would america look like today right you know yeah i will
say when i talked about this on on negan mormonism i did a three-part series on the the council of
50 because it is that important and and even the members of it they knew how uh how secretive this
needed to be and they would use like nicknames and and euphemisms for it they would call it like
the council or the council of god or they would call it the council of yet fifth because it's
50 backwards um so they use code names for it mormons are terrible with nicknames anyway um but
when when i did that three-part series the third part of it i wrote it from the perspective of a
future mormon theocratic dystopia and i wrote it as basically cataloging the rest of joseph smith's
life had he been successful with the council of 50 and what he truly aimed at doing and i recorded
it you know without even acknowledging that it was you know that it was a that it was you know
fake history that i was speculative history um i just recorded it from that utopian perspective
and documented their the wars that they went burning across the nation and and killing or
enslaving all of the natives and then burning across the south and brigham young was general of
the south and killed all of the the uh all of the slave owners and freed all of the slaves and then
went and burned their way all the way to washington dc and overtook the white house and america is in
this like dystopian future of like the southern and the western and the eastern districts you know
kind of very you know hunger games-ish kind of districts um and you know like it's it's interesting
to play inside that speculative space because the foundations of this the council of 50 right
this influences world history but this this changes this shapes world history not just american
but world history and the council of 50 like i should note the council of 50 never died it just
became more secretive we we have absolutely no evidence that the council of 50 was ever dissolved
or that they ever stopped having meetings all we have is a few of the minute books that were
kept in navu and in utah and then they just kind of disappears into thin air the science fiction
writer in me says thinks this book writes itself this book writes itself dang guys close what would
you say to the audience what do we have coming what is what is coming up david we're saying it's
going faster and faster and spinning apart well guess what happens next week well needless to
say joseph smith only has a few months to live let's let's make him good months okay maybe we
can zero in guys maybe we can zero in a little because we're about to approach the end the apocalypse
is upon us well tell us what you guys think down in the comment section make sure you
guys go check out david's book the mormons and go check out naked mormonism podcast with
brice blanket angle this episode so they won't be lasting forever so you're gonna need to follow
these guys and help them in their endeavors so don't forget to do that that'll be down in your
description of this video and don't forget ladies and gentlemen we are myth vision
i have hundreds of videos on the patreon become a patreon and get early access to everything i ever
launched join the twitter i've got a discord chat room you guys can help grow the community
one-time paypal or cash app if you want to help us out with the donation and join our
facebook groups man let's make this thing happen
