Please consider becoming a patron of MythVision Podcasts, you'll get early access to every
video including this amazing one and you can ask me personal questions, private message
me anything you'd like.
Professor Elaine Pagels, thank you so much for taking these questions.
My very good friend Stephen Nelson, he and I have been on this exploration trying to
understand the context of books, allowing the author in those books to speak what they
mean and what they're saying.
We try not to harmonize because you might neglect the context of something by running
to another passage.
And so this, if I could use the word heretic John on the island of Patmos, depending on
who's asking, he writes in Revelation 7 and Revelation 14 something important, but let
me read what Stephen has to say.
In Revelation 7, after John hears the number of the 144,000 silled, he looks and beholds
an innumerable multitude.
In chapter 14, the only group who can sing the redemption song is the 144,000 who are
redeemed from the earth, but then an angel proclaims the gospel to every nation on the
earth.
Are there two different groups being contrasted here?
Is the author reversing expectation when he hears a finite number, then looks and sees
an innumerable group?
Here are the verses for ease of reference and I'll read them.
Revelation 7, and I heard the number of the silled 144,000 silled from every tribe of
the sons of Israel.
Revelation 7, after this I looked and behold a great multitude that no one could number
from every nation, from all tribes and peoples and languages.
Revelation 13, no one could learn that song except the 144,000 who had been redeemed from
the earth.
Revelation 14, 6, then I saw another angel flying directly overhead with an eternal
gospel to proclaim those who dwell on the earth to every nation and tribe and language
and people.
A related point may be John's allusion to the Psalter.
Revelation 15, 3, O king of nations, all the nations shall come and shall worship before
you, then Psalms 86, 9, LXX, 85, 9, all the nations as many as you made shall come and
shall worship before you, Psalms 22, 27 to 28, and shall worship before you all the families
of the nations because kingship is the Lord's and it is he who is the master over the nations.
So the problem is, salvation according to the context looking at Revelation 14, they'll
say only Israelites could sing salvation song, the song of salvation, and they'll say that's
only restricted to the 12 tribes, but are there two groups here?
Some scholars want to say they're the same, but for what I, it looks to me that it sounds
like two separate groups.
What is your take?
Derek, that's a very important question and many people discuss that question.
The scholars who work on the book of Revelation, because it's a dilemma in classical prophecy,
in the prophecies of Isaiah and Jeremiah and Ezekiel.
How do the people of Israel, the tribes, the chosen people, relate to all the nations?
That's a question that various prophets answered in different ways.
As I read this, and I just wrote an article about this with other colleagues, we spoke
at a major conference about that question.
It seems to us that there are clearly two groups.
The 12,000, as the passage says, are drawn from all the 12 tribes of Israel.
If you look at what say the scholar Richard Balcom writes in his famous book on this,
that is a number, a constricted number of army members.
That is, if you're going to war in Israel, you call up 12,000 men from each of the tribes.
They're supposed to be celibate for the purposes of holy war, and they're holy, and they have
to observe careful purification rituals before they go into holy war.
They are the elite troops of the Lamb.
They stand, chapter 14, on the Mount Monsign, and with the Messiah, and the 144,000 are
with him, and the angelic army is behind them.
That's Israel.
Those are the elite troops.
At the same time, as you noted, Revelation says, yes, but the new Jerusalem, the final
glory of God in the city of God, is not only for Israel.
It also, as the prophet Isaiah said, or at least in 3rd Isaiah, it will include all the
Gentiles.
They may come in, if they come and worship the God of Israel, if they come and worship
the Messiah Jesus Christ, then they also can enter the city.
They're not the elite troops, but they're allowed in because the crucifixion of Jesus
has ransomed them from their sin and washed them white of their previous sins.
If they repent, they can come.
The book of Revelation is written for chin groups.
It's written for Jews who see themselves as God's people being oppressed by the Roman
Empire and who will be vindicated in the end as the elite troops of Christ, the Lamb of
God.
The rest of the people are being warned that if they don't come to the God of Israel, if
they don't repent of their sins, they'll be destroyed.
If they do repent and wash themselves in the blood of the Lamb, so to speak, then they
may enter into the holy city at the end time.
There's definitely two groups in chapter 24.
Chapter 7 and 14?
Yes, and 24.
And 24.
It says at the end in the new city that the kings of the nations will come into the city
and bring their gifts and they will walk in humble, repentant, but they will be allowed
in.
In fact, the author of Revelation says some of those Gentiles can even be priests of
God.
They can even have the privileges of God's own people at the end time.
This is so good because I have to probe into this other area that you have mentioned and
explore this with you because this author, John, and we're rabbiting into these other
questions, but there's a purpose behind this.
You forced me to do this.
First comment I want to make that I thought was amazing is the whole idea of celibacy before
war.
They seem to be virgins.
Well, if you look at David and how he kills his best friend to take his wife as a bear
sheba, I think.
This friend is supposed to not sleep with her because they're going to go to war against
the Philistine.
And here you have David like these are commands like prepare yourself for battle.
And this is a battle book about the end that when you're going into holy war, you practice
celibacy not as a lifelong commitment, but for the purposes of holy war, you abstain
from anything impure.
You have to be in a very pure state.
That's the tradition about holy war.
And so yes, these are Israel's warriors going into battle for God.
But that doesn't mean that all the nations may not have the option of repenting and turning
to the God of Israel and turning to the Messiah.
That's an interesting point because you say if these are the battle warriors, 12,000 from
each tribe, and this clearly indicates battle, like they're warriors prepared for holy war,
then wouldn't it be very like you'd be restraining what's going on with the, oh, and I then saw
an innumerable multitude singing or from every tribe, nation, Kendrick and tongue in Revelation
7 and 14.
Right.
Are they going to war?
It doesn't sound like they're the battle.
No, they are not the warriors.
They are the beneficiaries of the battle that will be won by the Son of God and his warriors
and the angelic armies.
But you see, if you look at the Dead Sea Scrolls, there's a scroll called the War Scroll, and
it's very similar.
And one scholar, in fact, who knows a lot about the book of Revelation says this is a Christian
War Scroll.
But in the Essenes who were devout Jews, who detested the people who'd taken over the temple,
who believed that the end of time was coming soon, who tried to keep them pure from Jews
who collaborated with the Roman army, also were preparing for Holy War.
And maybe they were actually stockpiling weapons.
The book of Revelation is not about military force, literally.
It's about God's power coming.
But the War Scroll found at among the Dead Sea Scroll talks about preparation for Holy
War.
It talks about where to dig the latrines and what you put on your swords and your lances
and your shields and how you chant the name of the Lord as you go into battle.
Not the name, but, I mean, substitutes for the Holy Name that Orthodox Jews don't speak
the name, actually, of God, but they speak about the glory of the Lord as they go into
war.
And so they have the same vision as John of Patmos.
They don't have the same sense that John does, that we know who the Messiah is, because
he lived, he died, and he's coming back.
So this probes into John and Paul.
I have to bring it up because Paul doesn't talk about Christ in the way that John does.
You've got a Messiah on a horse coming back, eyes flame a fire, hair white as wool with
a sword coming from his mouth.
He's ready for battle, whereas Paul has this kind of a different Christology on this coming
Lord.
I wanted to get into the, I use the term Jerry Springer drama between the two, because I
think it's important you bring this up in your book.
John seems to me, and I think that I agree with you on this for real.
He's taking jabs at Pauline-type Gentile Christianities.
And second, in Revelation 2, when he talks about the Jezebel, this particular church
in Asia Minor, Paul was preaching in Asia Minor.
I mean, it's obvious this similar church is probably that are being addressed here.
And it seems like there's competitive Christian sects that Paul's combating, and these other
sects that seem to be more Judaizing.
John might be that kind of Judaizing type of sect, I don't know.
Maybe you give us your thoughts, but it sounds like Paul's okay with the idol.
Like they shingled idols, don't worry, they have no power.
Other Jewish Christians are like, absolutely not.
And John seems to be one of those.
That is what I came to think, surprised to see, that I think that John is very traditional
Jew.
He wouldn't say he's a Christian, because he's a Jew who recognizes the Messiah.
He's not joining a different group.
He's a Jew who really understands who Jesus Christ is, like Peter and like, you know,
the others.
James, yeah.
James.
I think his sense that, you know, preaching to the Gentiles the way Paul does, that it
doesn't matter whether you eat kosher food or, you know, don't bother about the gods
and so forth, that is advice that Paul gives, as you say, to Gentiles.
And Paul's mission is to Gentiles.
He said that's what Jesus told him to do.
But the author of Revelation is really in the classical prophetic tradition.
But I think he sees Pauline Christians as kind of deviant in a way.
Yeah.
In a sense, if I could use the term, and I'm kind of in the idea of some of the people
that I've engaged with that I mentioned, he kind of sees them as posers, not really
following the true doctrines.
He's trying to correct them.
He's not so much so that he's neglecting.
He's trying to rebuke.
He's trying to like say, oh, and the angel of the Lord said, I do think the author's
trying to say these things, but.
Yes.
But John of Patmos never denies that the people from the nations will be welcomed into God's
kingdom at the end of time if they repent because they're seeing, you know, the judgment
on all the people who oppose the God of Israel and his Messiah and his holy people.
Do you think that this classical Jew John on the island of Patmos expected the nations
to maybe come under Torah, like the prophecies of classical prophets?
They say, in the end, you know, Isaiah talks about this, in the end, the nations will grab
ahold of 10 Jews by their coattail and say, teach me Torah, teach me the law, and they'd
come to the holy mountain.
In fact, 2 Chronicles, chapter 6, in verse 32 to 33, there's a prayer from Solomon.
Now, it's obviously probably put into the mouth, I would say, of Solomon praying this,
but he says that people from other nations will do as your people Israel do, right?
They'll come and they'll realize this is the holy temple, and I think it's the new Jerusalem
that maybe John's thinking about as the holy temple that the nations will come to see.
Do you think that I'm on the right track in that thinking?
Yes, but I don't think there's a simple answer because I think that, that devout Jews were,
were perplexed about what is the role of Gentiles in God's divine plan.
And some, they had different points of view there.
Yeah, I saw a lot of...
And it's a, it's a perplexing question for them.
I do think John of Patmos' solution is, well, of course, the holy city is for his people
in the first place, but it's also a place where the Gentiles who repent and come to
the Lord of Israel and come to the Messiah and worship in Jerusalem will be welcome.
Wow.
Yeah, that makes, that's what I've been saying all along.
So it's not either or.
There are clearly two groups.
And as you said, the clue is that some are numbered because, you know, God knows his
people, every one of them.
But the innumerable multitude is this motley crowd of, you know, Greeks and Africans and
Syrians and, you know, and all those other people that they know are there in the world
who aren't Jews.
Interesting.
Well, thank you so much.
