In the shadows of history where myth and truth intertwine lies a tale that has shaped civilizations
and kindled the faith of billions. Welcome to MythVision's groundbreaking documentary
where we embark on an intellectual odyssey to unravel one of the Bible's most enduring legends,
the Exodus. Prepare to have your understanding challenged and your beliefs tested as we delve
deep into the sands of time with the guidance of renowned Assyriologist Joshua Bowen.
Drawing from his provocative book, The Atheist Handbook to the Old Testament,
we navigate through whispers of the past, assertions of the present, and scholarly evidence
that might just change the narrative of history as you know it. This journey is not just another
story, it's a quest for truth, a revelation that will shock many who have never dared to question.
As we venture into this uncharted territory, we invite you to engage, to become part of this
historic exploration. Like this video, subscribe to MythVision, and dive into the comment section
to join the discussion. Your voice matters in this journey of discovery, and for those intrigued by
the depths we're about to explore, a link to purchase Joshua Bowen's enlightening book,
The Atheist Handbook to the Old Testament, is waiting for you in the description below.
Embark on your own journey of understanding and insight. Are you ready to explore the unseen and
the untold? Join us as we uncover whether the Exodus is a historical event or a mythological
saga engraved in the annals of time. Your journey into the past begins now. Exodus from Ignorance
This was Dr. Joshua Bowen's experience. My father and I are a lot alike. When things start going well,
we have a tendency to break out into song. I grew up working with my dad in his construction
company, and while he was usually quite stern and a little irritable, there were times that things
would all fall into place, and you would hear him bellow often while swinging a hammer.
Now, he didn't know the rest of the song, but that was of little consequence. The message,
for him, contained in these few words, sounded through loud and clear. God was in control of
his situation. Although the job he was working had seen its ups and downs, it was all in the
hands of his Lord. If he would but trust and follow him, God would bring him through any
adversity. For my father, the words of this hymn and the story of deliverance that stood behind
it allowed him to identify with the children of Israel who traveled through the wilderness
on their way out of Egypt, guided by the mighty outstretched arm of Yahweh. God cared for his
people then, and he would care for my father now. The question of the historicity of the Exodus story
was not terribly significant to him, while he certainly would have affirmed that what the
Bible said was true, that God led the children of Israel out of Egypt after inflicting 10
horrible plagues on the Pharaoh and his people. The historical veracity of the story wasn't really
something that concerned him. It was the story itself that mattered. Remembering what God had done
and would still do, though perhaps on a smaller scale, was what brought him comfort and gave him
the confidence to meet the challenges in his life. It also brought him into closer relationship with
like-minded believers in his church and community. From the inception of the religion, Christians
have continued to see themselves as God's chosen people. This shared tradition of Yahweh's deliverance
solidifies their collective identity and brings a large measure of cohesion and purpose to both
the group and individuals. But why am I bringing all of this up? Why talk about how the story of the
Exodus was and still is used by people like my father in the course of their day-to-day lives?
Because this is nothing new. However, one interprets the historical and archaeological data concerning
the Exodus event. Perhaps what matters most is how people have used the story throughout the
millennia. The point of the story was to demonstrate Yahweh's unrivaled power, not only over the
pharaoh and his army, but also over the elements. In other words, the message of the story of Moses is.
God can use weak, unskilled, hesitant, and even cowardly people to accomplish his will,
and nothing can stand in his way. This message sung about in hymns, read about in children's books,
and preached from the pulpit. Functions as a source of solace, encouragement, and strength for the
individual and the community in Christian and Jewish circles. Because of this, in a very real
sense, the historicity of the Exodus and the wanderings through the wilderness need not be
as significant as many might think. Perhaps the more fundamentalist believer should now ask themselves,
What if the Exodus never took place? What if the story, as narrated in the Hebrew
Bible, has only a kernel of historical validity that stands behind it? What if there was not one
Exodus from Egypt, as described in the Old Testament, but many? Exoduses, much smaller and
less dramatic, that took place over hundreds of years. What would this do to my faith?
While many may conclude that their faith would be shattered if these things turned out to be true,
a more common and enduring approach by the Church and within Judaism has been to find ways
of adapting their faith to incorporate different understandings of the stories in the Hebrew
Bible. Of course, it is not my purpose here or anywhere for that matter, to persuade someone
to leave their faith. Instead, I open the documentary in this way to encourage the viewer,
be they an atheist, skeptic, or believer, to consider how the following information about
the Exodus from Egypt could or should affect their interpretation and application of the story,
along with the rest of the Hebrew Bible. For those of my readers who are believers,
this chapter may prompt you to decide that the evidence indeed suggests that the Exodus,
as described in the Old Testament, is not historically reliable. This illumination
potentially threatens to jeopardize your faith. If it does, I would like to suggest that you need
not leave your religious tradition on these grounds alone. Although this would be a perfectly
reasonable response, quite similar to my own experience, there are sincere and committed
believers who maintain their faith in the God of the Hebrew Bible in whatever form that takes for
them, in spite of the historically inaccurate presentation of events in the text, including,
and perhaps most importantly, the Exodus from Egypt. We begin then with the all-important question
of this chapter. Is the Exodus story as presented in the Hebrew Bible historically reliable? As we
suggested before, there is little doubt that the historicity of the Exodus continues to be a topic
of tremendous interest and hot debate. For example, a 2013 symposium held in San Diego,
California, brought together top researchers from the fields of biblical studies, archaeology,
Egyptology, and even computer and geoscience to examine the evidence for the Exodus of the Israelites
from Egypt from a wide range of perspectives. No shortage of books and articles have been
published by specialists and non-specialists alike in an attempt to unravel the mystery
of the biblical account of Israel's departure from captivity.
What happened? Who was involved? When did the event or events take place? How does the evidence
compare with the biblical record? In what follows, we will wade into the sea of evidence and arguments
that have come from scholars in the fields of primarily biblical studies, archaeology,
and Egyptology. And, as you might expect, we will attempt to tease out the interpretations on which
nearly all scholars agree, while identifying those that are more nuanced and still debated.
First, we will briefly review the biblical story of the Exodus from Egypt. If you recall,
from Dr. Joshua Bowen's Volume 1 of the Atheist Handbook to the Old Testament,
he covered the narrative of the Pentateuch, including the story of the Exodus. We will
present the Exodus narrative again here in a bit more detail in order to set the reader's focus
on how closely the story informed the first generations of biblical scholars as they wrestled
with the historical and archaeological data all the while searching for the truth.
We will then turn to the earliest written evidence that we have for Israel and or the Exodus.
This will begin with the first mention of Israel in the textual record, the Merneptas Stile.
We will then examine some of the biblical prophets from as early as the 8th century,
who relayed traditions of the Exodus from Egypt. We will consider several of these passages in
their contexts in order to determine what the prophets had in mind when speaking of the Exodus,
and how this can help us determine whether there were different traditions concerning Israel
and their interactions with Egypt. Staying with the textual evidence, we will examine
some of the important records from the period of or just before the purported Exodus event,
including a group of documents from the Egyptian city of Amarna. You might remember from the
historical chapters in Dr. Bowen's Volume 1 that the Amarna period and the documentation
that it produced are incredibly important when it comes to understanding the land of Canaan
during the second half of the second millennium BCE. What do these texts tell us about the period
in which Israel was supposed to have escaped Egypt and eventually entered the land of Canaan?
We will then move into some of the archaeological evidence that informs discussions about the Exodus.
Do we have material remains that indicate that 2.5 million people left Egypt
and stayed in the area of Kadesh Barnea for nearly 40 years? Is it reasonable to conclude that such a
group of people could even have left Egypt without showing up in the textual record? What about the
names of cities and regions appearing in the biblical text? Do they line up with what we know
from the late 2nd millennium BCE? Does the root of the Exodus and the wanderings as portrayed in
the Hebrew Bible match what archaeology tells us? Once grounded in the written and archaeological
evidence, we will lay out and examine some of the more seminal interpretations of the data with
respect to the Exodus. These are approaches that have been influential and came to be
widely adopted positions, either among academics or non-specialists. As such, it is important to
at least provide an overview of them individually. A final note before we dive in.
This chapter is not intended to provide the redder with the correct interpretation of the data
concerning the Exodus. There are good scholars who hold to a range of different interpretive
models on the basis of the same evidence. Instead, as is the case in many of the chapters in this
series, my goal is to not only provide you with the textual and archaeological evidence,
but also to identify and explain the consensus positions. From a variety of perspectives,
most scholars continue to hold that the traditional interpretation of the Old Testament story,
that 2.5 million people escaped from Egypt following a series of plagues,
inflicted upon the Pharaoh and his nation, is not historically tenable. In fact, the evidence
strongly suggests that no single event likely stands behind the Exodus story. Instead, there
may be multiple events, or perhaps no particular event, that form the basis for the story of the
Israelite deliverance from Egypt. We will see several competing interpretations of the data,
but it will become clear that the story described in the Old Testament cannot stand up to the
historical scrutiny of any of them, the story of the Exodus.
Let my people go. In the story, Moses, the reluctant messenger of Yahweh, stands before
the Pharaoh and demands the release of the oppressed Israelites. If you were to ask someone on the
street to tell you the story of the Exodus, you would probably be able to extract the basic plot,
of course. Our purpose in this documentary is not to settle for the basic plot. We want to begin
our investigations into each of these hot-button issues by thoroughly understanding the overall
context of the narrative that the Old Testament is telling. To this end, I would like to tell the
story of the Exodus in greater detail. More specifically, I will pay close attention in
the latter parts of the story to the paths of travel and specific place names that appear in the
text. This will allow the viewer to more effectively align our discussions in the rest of this video
with the events as depicted in the narrative. The story of the Exodus begins with Joseph
moving the remainder of his family down to Egypt. Exodus 1-1-5. Thanks to some brilliant
administrative maneuverings, his family has prospered in the area called Goshen,
ostensibly in the eastern part of the Nile Delta. However, Joseph, his brothers, and all of the family
members that immigrated to Egypt eventually die off, and after several subsequent generations,
a new unnamed Pharaoh comes to power. This Pharaoh is unaware of the events that transpired during
the life of Joseph. He does not see the Israelites, who are beginning to greatly increase in number
as allies, but as potential enemies. In order to ensure that these multiplying Israelites will
not turn on the Egyptians in a time of war, the Pharaoh devises a strategy for control.
He will enslave them. Exodus 1-9-9-11. Initially, it seems as though the plan will suffice. However,
we see that the harder the Pharaoh makes life for the children of Israel, the faster they
multiply in number. This causes the Egyptians increased anxiety about these now unwelcome guests,
and they oppress them more harshly. However, this does not work as well as the Egyptians hope,
leading the Pharaoh to supplement his plan. The Pharaoh instructs the midwives that are
responsible for aiding the Hebrew, an ethnic designation for the Israelites, women in giving
birth to kill any boys that they deliver. Exodus 1-15-16. The midwives are said to fear God,
so they refuse to carry out the Pharaoh's order. When confronted, the midwives excuse
their insubordination by explaining that the exceptionally hardy Hebrew woman were able to
give birth on their own, so the midwives had no occasion to kill the newborn boys
after delivering them. Undeterred, the Pharaoh then extends the command to kill all newborn males
to the entire Egyptian population. Anyone who finds an Israelite baby boy is to throw him
into the Nile. It is into this rather dire situation that Moses is born. Moses' mother,
who was from the tribe of Levi, secretly gives birth to him and keeps him hidden for three months.
Exodus 2-1-2. When it becomes impossible to conceal him any longer, she makes a small basket
and sets him adrift in the river, where he floats down to where the daughter of the Pharaoh is bathing.
When she sees Moses, she decides to keep him, even though she realizes that he is an Israelite.
Likely by design, Moses' sister Miriam approaches the princess and offers to go
and fetch a Hebrew woman to come and be a wet nurse for the baby.
The happy result of this is that Moses' mother, after having been forced to give up her son for
fear of him being killed by the Egyptians, not only saves her son's life, but is then hired by
the household of the Pharaoh himself to raise him. Such miraculous intervention sets the tone for the
life of Moses. The story then skips ahead to Moses as an adult, a high-ranking member
of the Pharaoh's house. Moses sees an Egyptian beating a Hebrew and seeking to protect his
countrymen. He kills the Egyptian and buries his body. Exodus 2-11-12. The following day,
Moses sees two Israelites fighting with one another. When he attempts to defuse the situation,
one of the men asks Moses who made him their judge, and will he kill them as he had killed the
Egyptian man? As you might imagine, this terrifies Moses, who then flees from Egypt into the desert
of Sinai, fearful that he will invite retribution for his actions. The events that occur between
Moses fleeing from and returning to Egypt are largely irrelevant to our purposes, but we should
note that while in the desert, Yahweh appears to Moses from a burning bush and commissions him
to speak to Pharaoh on his behalf. It takes some convincing, but eventually, Moses agrees.
After appearing before the elders of Israel and showing them the signs that Yahweh had equipped
him to perform, the elders believe Moses and his brother Aaron then make their way to the Pharaoh.
In their first encounter with the Pharaoh, Moses requests that he let the Israelites
go out from the land to celebrate a feast to Yahweh in the wilderness. Exodus 5-1. However,
the Pharaoh is not moved to send the people off to worship their God. Rather, he questions
how the Israelites have enough free time to consider going on such an excursion,
to relieve the people of their idle time. He sets quotas of bricks to be produced each day,
but no longer provides the people with the straw required to make the bricks.
As you might imagine, with the added time and energy required to find and gather straw,
the Israelites are not able to meet their daily quotas. This leads to beatings by
their Egyptian taskmasters. Of course, this does not endear the elders and the people to Moses
and Aaron, whom they understandably hold responsible for this bad turn of events.
Moses returns to Yahweh and cries out to him, which causes God to begin to move against Pharaoh
and the Egyptians. Exodus 6-1. After promising Moses that he will harden the Pharaoh's heart,
work miraculous signs, and bring the people of Israel out of Egypt, Yahweh sends the reluctant
Moses back to Pharaoh to again demand that the people be released. Moses and Aaron perform a
magical demonstration of divine power before the Pharaoh, but he is unimpressed. Yahweh prepares
to send the first plague who against to get the first plague consists of turning the water of
Egypt into blood. Exodus 7-20. With the Pharaoh standing down by the river, Moses again commands
him on God's behalf to let the people go. Should he refuse? Moses will turn the Nile along with
all the water in Egypt to blood. Should he refuse? Pharaoh refuses and the plague is carried out.
However, Pharaoh remains unmoved and he returns to his house, leaving the plague to spoil the land
for seven days. The second plague, frogs, follows much the same course. Only this time,
the Pharaoh pleads with Moses to remove the frogs, promising that he will allow the people
to go and worship Yahweh. Exodus 8-8. However, when the plague ends, the Pharaoh changes his mind.
The third plague, lice, does nothing to move the Pharaoh, but the fourth flies changes his mind.
He tells them to go and sacrifice without leaving the country. The Pharaoh is at first
persuaded to let them go a short distance outside of Egypt. But again, when the plague is removed,
he changes his mind and refuses to let the people go as promised. The Pharaoh is unmoved by the
fifth and sixth plagues. Diseased cattle and boils. Exodus 8-28. During the seventh plague,
Hale Yahweh reveals to Pharaoh that he is bringing these punishments upon Egypt to show his power.
In this instance, Yahweh promises to bring down Hale upon the land. Anyone who believes
will bring their animals in from the weather. Those who do not will suffer their loss. Following
the destructive downpour of Hale mixed with fire, the Pharaoh urgently pleads with Moses
to have Yahweh relent. However, when the plague stops, the Pharaoh once again changes his mind.
Some progress appears to be made leading up to the eighth plague, locusts. Moses and Aaron
again demand the release of the people and even the Pharaoh's servants take up their cause in
treating the Pharaoh to let them go. Exodus 10-7. The Pharaoh agrees, but only so far as to allow
the adult males to depart. Yahweh then sends the plague of locusts, which brings the immediate
response of contrition from the Pharaoh, once again to see him change his mind when the locusts
are removed. This leads to the ninth plague, which comes with no warning to the Pharaoh.
Darkness falls upon the land for three days, after which the Pharaoh attempts to strike a
bargain, take the women and children, but not the animal. Moses refuses, and the Pharaoh becomes
enraged, threatening that he will kill Moses if he ever sees his face again. This leads to the
final and most devastating of the ten plagues, the death of the firstborn. Exodus 11. Before
sending the plague, the people are to ask for articles of silver and gold from their Egyptian
neighbors, whom Yahweh has caused to be predisposed toward them. Moses commands the people to take
a young lamb, kill it, and sprinkle some of the blood on the lentils and doorposts of their houses.
Yahweh has dispatched his angel to take the life of every firstborn child. However, when Yahweh
passes by the house and sees the blood on the door, he will pass over that place and move on to the
next. Following this night of death throughout all Egypt, Pharaoh finally relents and commands Moses
and all the children of Israel to take their livestock and leave. We now get the first references
to specific places that the people journey. This will lay important groundwork for the remainder
of this chapter. The Israelites have been living in the land of Goshen, in the Nile Delta, and they
travel from Ramesses to Sukkoth. Exodus 12.37. The text reports that there are 600,000 men in
addition to children, and that they leave after living in Egypt for 430 years. Exodus 12.37.40.
We also see in Exodus 13.17.20 that the path of the Exodus does not go north along the more
direct route by way of the land of the Philistines, but rather through the wilderness by the Red Sea.
The Israelites leave Sukkoth and travel to Ethan. In chapter 14, Yahweh commands Moses
to have the people camp before Paiha Heroth, which is between Migdol and the sea before
Belzephan, Exodus 14.2. This place of encampment will lead the Pharaoh to believe that the Israelites
are trapped by the desert, prompting him to pursue his former slaves. As the Egyptian army approaches,
the Israelites panic and fear that they will die in the wilderness. Moses then parts the sea,
and the people pass through on dry ground. When the Egyptians pursue, however, Moses causes the
waters to return, and the Egyptian army drowns. Earliest references to the Exodus and Israel.
In hearing the title to this section, you might be tempted to think,
if we want to see the earliest references to the Exodus, we can just read the story as it appears
book of Exodus, right? However, after a bit of reflection and thinking about what we have said
in this series, it is clear that we cannot simply assume that the books of the Pentateuch are the
earliest in the Hebrew Bible, simply because they come first in order. The earliest references to
the Exodus appear to come from small portions of the Pentateuch and from some of the early Hebrew
prophets. We will examine several references to the Israelites leaving Egypt in Exodus 15,
the Song of the Sea, and Numbers 23-24, the Oracles of Balaam, as well as in the prophetic books of
Hosea and Amos. What do these texts say about the Exodus, and what can they tell us about what
the early Israelites knew or understood about the event? Finally, while it is not with reference to
the Exodus from Egypt, the earliest known mention of the Israelites is an important piece of information
in this discussion. At the end of the 13th century BCE, Pharaoh Maneptah identified a group of people
known as Israel in a stele that recorded his victory over several groups in Canaan. We will examine
this well-known inscription and determine how it can add to our understanding of the Exodus.
The earliest references in the Pentateuch, while we know that the Pentateuch as a whole
does not comprise the earliest texts in the Hebrew Bible, there are a few portions of text
that are generally regarded as older than what surrounds them. Two of these passages are Exodus
15 and Numbers 23-24. The former passage contains the so-called Song of the Sea, in which Yahweh
is said to have destroyed the Egyptian army. In the latter, Numbers 23-24, we read the Oracles
of Balaam, the seer who was hired to curse the nation of Israel in their journey out of Egypt.
Both of these are considered by scholars to be among the most ancient pieces of literature
in the Hebrew Bible, and we will examine each in turn below to see what they reveal
about the earliest Exodus traditions. Exodus 15, the Song of the Sea.
Then Moses and the children of Israel sang this song to Yahweh, and they said,
I will sing to Yahweh, for he is highly exalted. He threw the horse and its rider into the sea.
Yah is my strength and my song, and he has become my salvation. This is my God, and I
will praise him. The God of my father and I will exalt him. Yahweh is a man of battle. Yahweh is
his name. The chariots of Pharaoh and his army he threw into the sea, and the best of his officers
were drowned in the Suf sea. The deeps cover them. They descended into the depths like a stone.
Your right hand, O Yahweh, is glorious in strength. Your right hand, O Yahweh, beats down the enemy,
and in the greatness of your loftiness, you throw down the ones who rise up against you.
You send out your anger, and it consumes them like chaff. And by the air of your nostrils,
the waters were piled up. The flowing water stood up like a heap. The deeps were congealed
in the midst of the sea. The enemy said, I will pursue, overtake, and divide the plunder.
My gullet will be filled with them. I will unsheath my sword. My hand will dispossess them.
You blew with your breath. The sea covered them. They sank like lead into the mighty waters.
Who is like you among the gods, O Yahweh? Who is like you, glorious in holiness,
or inspiring in praises, performing marvelous things? You stretched out your right hand.
The ground swallowed them. You led, in your loving kindness, this, people that you redeemed.
You guided them by your power to your holy residence. The peoples heard, and now tremble.
Fear has seized those dwelling in Philistia. Then the tribal chiefs of Edom were terrified.
Trembling seizes the leaders of Moab. All those dwelling in Canaan were disheartened.
Terror and trembling fall upon them. By the great power of your arm, they stand as still as a stone.
Until your people, O Yahweh, cross over. Until this people, whom you purchased, cross over.
You will bring and plant them in the mountain of your inheritance. A place of your dwelling you
have made, O Yahweh. A sanctuary, O Lord. Your hands have established. Yahweh will reign forever
and ever. Exodus 15, 1, 18. The poem found in Exodus 15 describes the great power of Yahweh
as he triumphed over the Egyptian pharaoh, defeating his army by throwing them into the sea.
There are actually two poems in the chapter. The verses translated are referred to as the song of
the sea, while V. Sing to Yahweh for he is highly exalted. He threw the horse and its rider into
the sea is identified as the song of Miriam. For our purposes, the material point is the
dating of the song of the sea. There is a wide spectrum of opinion on the matter. Scholars like
Brian Russell argue the poetry of Exodus 15, V, 1, B, D, 18, 21, B was composed approximately
1150 BCE in the early years of Israel's existence. On the other end of the spectrum are scholars
like Brenner, who argue that the poem dates to a period after the rebuilding of the walls of
Jerusalem in the late fifth century BCE. It would seem, however, that most biblical scholars
date the song of the sea earlier, identifying it as archaic biblical Hebrew. Dr. Gianto writes,
A precise date cannot be assigned to ABH, archaic biblical Hebrew. It can be assumed that the original
speech community of ABH is the early Israelite society, and early traditions are preserved in
a number of poems in the Hebrew Bible. These poems form the corpus of ABH. The divine warrior and his
acts are exalted in Exod 15, 1, 18, the song of the sea. If the poem does indeed date to an earlier
period in Israelite history, what can we learn from its content? What was the Exodus tradition
as reflected in the text, if any? Everyone agrees that the song of the sea depicts Yahweh
as a divine warrior. He defeats the Egyptian army by casting the horse and its rider into the sea.
It is also clear that, as implied above, the poem itself was not originally part of the narrative
that surrounds it. Dr. Dozeman writes, There is no indication that the songs were associated with
Moses or Miriam in their original composition, yet both are now thoroughly embedded in the
larger narrative context. While some of the expected components of the Exodus story are present
in the poem, others may not be. For example, Dozeman notes, There is no crossing of the sea on dry
ground in the song of the sea. Instead, Yahweh destroys the enemy in the sea, sending them to
the underworld. Dr. Stephen Russell argues that, in fact, the song of the sea did not,
in its original, independent form, refer to the Exodus at all. He writes,
In some, Exot 1515-17 does not presuppose an Exodus event. Neither is there any reference
to an Exodus from Egypt anywhere else in the poem. Seem that the song of the sea, a poem that
likely dates relatively early in Israel's history, speaks to a conflict between Yahweh and Egypt,
in which the Pharaoh's army was thrown into the sea. Because this poem was originally independent
of the surrounding narrative, the narrative of the Exodus, and was inserted into the canonical
version of the text. There may not be a one-to-one correspondence between what is depicted in the
poem and what is seen in the final Exodus story. In fact, it appears that some or many of the details
in the canonical story are not reflected in the poem, and that the later writers simply
integrated the poem into the narrative on the buses of its description of Yahweh's victory over
Egypt and the Pharaoh. Numbers 23 and 24. The Oracles of Balaam
Israelite's journey from Egypt to Canaan, the king of Moab, Balaak, hires a diviner named Balaam
to come and curse the very large group of Israelites. However, instead of cursing Balaak's enemies,
Balaam blesses them. Portions of these Oracles, pronounced by Balaam, contain references to the
Exodus event. Specifically, in Numbers 23, 22, and 24, 8, we see the same refrain repeated.
El, who delivers them from Egypt, has horns, like horns of a wild ox. It is this illusion
to the Exodus, to which we now turn. When were the Oracles of Balaam written? As with the song of
the sea, they also likely date to a relatively early period in Israel's history. Dr. Russell
summarizes, while the arguments for a premonarchic date may not be compelling, there is reasonable
evidence to suggest that the Oracles date to the eighth century BCE or earlier. And as with Exodus
15, Dr. Gianto assigns the Balaam Oracles to archaic biblical Hebrew. There are several lines
of argumentation that scholars use to date these Oracles early, perhaps during the ninth or eighth
centuries BCE. Although these will not occupy our attention here, perhaps it is sufficient to quote
Dr. Prop. Without considerable apologies and gymnastics, we cannot date the Oracles of Balaam
earlier than the ninth century BCE. If the Balaam Oracles also preserve a relatively early tradition
of the Exodus, what is it that is preserved in the text? First, we see that the God El is spoken of
in these verses, as well as throughout the rest of the Oracles. Indeed, there appears to be a
distinction made between Yahweh and El, the chief Canaanite deity throughout the Oracles.
Second, scholars have noted the use of the Hebrew verb to deliver, bring out 2322 and 248,
which comes from the verbal root Yatza. This verb is on the whole pretty common. It is used
generally to describe people going out from or to a particular place. For example, in Genesis
19, 6, however, there is another nuance that this verb can take when it appears in context
about slavery. Stay with me, I'm going somewhere with this. For example, in Exodus 21, 2, we read,
if you buy a Hebrew slave, six years he will serve, and in the seventh, he will go out free
without payment. Perhaps more telling is Exodus 21, 7, which states, and if a man sells his daughter
as a female slave, she will not go out like the male servants. It is clear from these verses
that the verb to go out can carry the nuanced meaning of to be released from slavery, a theme that is
clearly present in the Exodus narrative. As Dr. Dozman writes, the literary relationship between
the law of debt slavery and the story of the Exodus is further reinforced by the verb to go out as
the description of release from slavery. Based on the use of this verb in the Balaam Oracles,
Dr. Russell also writes, this verb in the Egypt formula seems to bear the nuance of a movement
from a state of oppression to a state of freedom. In some sense, Egypt was perceived as a former
overlord of Israel. Turning back to the refrain in the Balaam Oracles in numbers 23, 22, and 24,
and 8. El, who delivers them from Egypt, has horns like horns of a wild ox. We can see that this
nuanced reading of the verb Yatza seems to contain a memory of Israel being delivered from some type
of slavery in Egypt. Dr. Milgram argues that this refrain emphasizes that the Lord is the true source
of their freedom. In short, we have seen that Exodus 15 appears to contain the memory of a
military victory of Yahweh over Egypt and perhaps a conquest into the land, while the Balaam Oracles
appear to preserve a memory of El as the God who delivered Israel from bondage. Dr. Russell argues
that the Balaam Oracles attest to an Egypt tradition that focused on the idea of liberation from
Egyptian oppression rather than on the idea of a journey of Israelites out of Egypt into Syria,
Palestine. The prophets, Hosea and Amos. We have seen that two poetic passages in the Pentateuch,
Exodus 15 and numbers 23, 24 appear to date to a period earlier than the narrative in which
they are embedded. While we cannot be certain of how early they date, scholars generally agree
that the poems go back to at least the eighth century BCE. Other references to the Exodus appear
in prophetic books that also date to the eighth century, Hosea and Amos. There are numerous
references to the Exodus story in these two prophetic books and it is certainly not my
intention to provide commentary on each of the passages in question. However, it is important
for our purposes to recognize that these eighth century prophets were aware of Exodus traditions,
although they might not agree precisely on the story or its theological implications. Dr. Grab writes,
Although we could debate some of these passages, overall the Exodus tradition seems to be
presupposed, though it would take us back only to the eighth century, long after the alleged event.
Whatever the reality, it is clothed in a thick layer of mythical interpretation.
Let's begin with the book of Hosea. Several verses seem to refer to an Exodus tradition,
implying that it was already regarded as a significant event in Israel's past by the time
of Assyria's incursions into the region. Dr. Hoffman writes of these texts in Hosea.
This high concentration of references to the Exodus cannot be a mere coincidence. It rather
represents the central position of this tradition in Hosea's view. Indeed, a close inspection
proves that Hosea regarded the Exodus as the most important event in the history of the covenant
between Yahweh and his people. Some of the verses that speak of an Exodus event are Hosea
2.14-15. Therefore I am about to allure her and bring her to the wilderness and I will speak to
her heart and I will give her vineyards to her from there and the valley of Acho as a door of hope.
Then she will answer there as in the days of her youth and as in the day that I brought her up from
the land of Egypt, Hebrew 16-17. The use of the verb to bring up is significant here. It is arguably
a reference to settlement in the land of Israel. Dr. Dierman notes that this verb is part of the
confessional language that God had brought Israel up out from Egypt. A similar idea is seen in Hosea
12-13, Hebrew 12-14. And by a prophet Yahweh brought Israel up from Egypt and by a prophet he was
guarded. There is also a reference to the Exodus that is set in the context of a prohibition against
the worship of molten images Hosea 13-4. In this passage the speaker declares, I myself am Yahweh
your God from the land of Egypt, Hosea 13-4. Dr. Russell sets the context of this passage
relative to the stories the golden calves in Exodus 32 and of Jeroboam's idols at Bethel and Dan
in 1 Kings 12. He concludes, This nexus of connections and especially Hose 13-4 suggests
that there was a well-known association between the calves, Bethel and the Exodus by the 8th century
BC. In other words, it seems clear that whatever the details of the story that were remembered or
understood, the prophet Hosea knows some form of the Exodus tradition and considers it central
to Israel's history. Turning to the book of Amos, again we see several references to an Exodus
from Egypt, including Amos, 2, 10, 11, 3, 1, and 9, 7. Scholars debate whether some or all of these
passages are actually later in date, the result of an editing process during the exilic or post-exilic
period. For example, in his commentary on Amos 2.910, Dr. Eideval argues,
There are thus good reasons to assume that verses 10 should be ascribed to an exilic or post-exilic
redaction informed by Deuteronomistic ideology. Arguably, the same applies also to those passages
in Amos that contain similar phrases, namely 3, 1, 5 to 25, and 9.7.
In general, I have taken the references to Egypt in Hosea and Amos to reflect authentic
traditions that predate the Assyrian invasion of Israel in 722 BCE, unless there are clear
reasons for regarding the reference or its context as coming from a later period.
Regardless, and for the sake of argument, we will assume the latter position, counting these
references in Amos as originating in the 8th century. Let's take a look at some of these
references to the Exodus tradition in Amos. 2, 10. And I myself brought you up from the land of
Egypt, and I led you in the desert 40 years to possess the land of the Amorite. 3, 1. Listen
to this word that Yahweh has spoken against you, O children of Israel, against the entire clan that
I brought up from the land of Egypt. 9, 7. Are you not like the children of Kush to me, O children
of Israel, says Yahweh? Did I not bring up Israel from the land of Egypt and the Philistines from
Kafta and the Arameans from Kyr? If these verses date to the 8th century BCE, it would seem that the
tradition in Amos, at a minimum, speaks of Yahweh, bringing the nation of Israel up from Egypt and
leading them through the wilderness. It is interesting to note that the verb to bring up
is used in Hosea and Amos rather than the verb to bring out, as we saw in Numbers 23 and 24.
This may indicate that the prophets did not necessarily associate the Exodus with deliverance
from enslavement. Russell argues. In fact, there is no explicit evidence in Hosea and Amos that
Israel's time in Egypt was remembered as a period of slavery. Instead, Israel's Exodus is described
with a verb of motion rather than with a verb of freedom. Whether the traditions were relatively
consistent in content, if these passages were original to the prophet, this would provide
further evidence that there was indeed a memory of the Exodus during the 8th century.
The Merneptah Stile, earliest reference to Israel.
Before we examine the historical and archaeological evidence concerning the Exodus,
I would like to briefly highlight another early reference, not to the Exodus tradition,
but to Israel itself, the Merneptah Stile, dating to the end of the 13th century BCE.
This relief from the Karnak Temple features victories of Pharaoh Merneptah and seems to speak
of Israel in its earliest stage. The chiefs are thrown flat and say peace. Not one of them lifts
the head among the nine bows. Chehenu is seized, Qatar is pacified, Pekanan, Gaza is plundered
most grievously, Ashkelon is brought in, and Gaza captured. Yeno Am is turned into something
annihilated. Israel is stripped bare, wholly lacking seed. Kahrou has become a widow for Egypt,
and all lands are together at peace. Anyone who stirs is cut down by the King of Upper and Lower
Egypt, Merneptah. There are obviously a great number of things that we could say about this
inscription for our interest is set on the explicit mention of Israel in line 27 to show
that this was an identifiable people group in Canaan by at least the end of the 13th century.
This inscription will come up again later in our discussion of the Exodus as it is an important
piece of data concerning things like the size or status of Israel along with their relationship
to Egypt during this period. Nevertheless, this early reference to Israel shows that they were
certainly present in Canaan by 1207 BCE and a group that was considered significant enough
for mention in a victory relief. What can we say? Having examined some of the earliest textual
references to both the Exodus traditions and to Israel itself, what can we conclude?
Apart from the debate concerning the dating of several of the passages we have discussed above,
it seems that the evidence allows us to say that some of the traditions concerning an Exodus
are relatively early, dating at least as far back as the 8th century BCE, though perhaps earlier.
It also would appear that there was not a unified tradition from which the various writers drew.
For example, the Song of the Sea in Exodus 15 appears to differ in some respects from what is
seen in the Oracles of Balaam in Numbers 23-24. These in turn may contain further differences
from what we find in the early prophets Hosea and Amos. The important takeaway here is that these
early references to the Exodus and to Israel in the Myrneptah Stile suggest that
early writers were already in possession of traditions about an Exodus from Egypt
that formed an important part of their national history.
Egyptian evidence for the Exodus
We have examined what some of the earliest biblical sources
appear to say about the Exodus event and looked at the earliest non-biblical reference to Israel.
But what can we understand of the Exodus from extra biblical sources that come from Egypt itself?
If nearly three million slaves walked out of Egypt, we would expect that someone would have
noticed. In this section, we will evaluate Egyptian textual and archaeological data for
evidence concerning the Exodus. Textual evidence from Egypt
We don't have much textual data from Egypt that is useful in determining the reality and or details
of an Exodus event. There are no records that describe a group of Israelites crossing the border
out of Egypt, and we have no inscriptions that indicate that such an event took place.
Dr. Grabby puts it this way. There is nothing in Egyptian texts that could be related to the
story in the book of Exodus. There is no period in the second half of the second millennium BCE
when Egypt was subject to a series of plagues, death of children, physical disruption of the
country, and the loss of huge numbers of its inhabitants. However, there are two groups of
texts that should be examined in this discussion, the Amarna Letters and several Egyptian papyri.
The Amarna Letters in the second half of the second millennium BCE, particularly during the 14th
century, 1400-1300 BCE. International diplomacy increased among various nations throughout the
ancient Near East, including Assyria, Babylonia, Egypt, Mitanni, Hadi, Arzawa, and Alashia.
This time is known as the Amarna Period, named after Tel El Amarna, the site in Egypt where
nearly 400 cuneiform tablets were found that reveal to us details about these international
relationships. These tablets were part of a royal archive and can primarily be divided
into two groups. The first group of approximately 44 tablets consists of letters between the kings
of the major powers at the time, most prominently Assyria, Babylonia, and Egypt. The rest of the
letters contain correspondence between the pharaoh and vassal rulers from the land of Canaan,
which was then under the control of Egypt. This latter group of vassal correspondence
between the pharaoh and his subjects in Canaan will be our focus in this discussion.
The situation in Canaan that is depicted in the letters is one of small city-states ruled by
petty kings. These local potentates write to the pharaoh with frequent requests for assistance
and warning of treason being committed by their rival city-state rulers. The pharaoh
administered the region by placing Egyptian officials over different parts of Canaan and
Syria. Dr. Moran describes the political makeup in this manner. At the time of the Amarna letters,
the area was divided into two or three provinces, each under an Egyptian official,
who is in the Amarna letters without specific title. Probably always a member of the military,
he resided in a garrison city, one of a network, and from there he looked after Egyptian interests
in the city-states and crown lands within his territory. The nature of the letters themselves
further demonstrates the subordinate situation of these local city-state rulers under the
administrative structure imposed by Egypt. Dr. Moran writes,
From these letters, confirmed by letters of the vassals to the king, one sees that the main purpose
of the king's writing was to acquire personnel and other goods, to introduce Egyptian officials
and secure obedience to their orders, and to arrange for supplies for his troops,
the rest of the vassal correspondence is, concerned almost exclusively with letters
from subordinate rulers or vassals to the king or high Egyptian officials. Dr. Kilibru concurs.
The texts, especially the Amarna letters and the Egyptian military annals, present a less
uniform and unified socio-political picture, testifying to a low degree of integration and
central organization, each city being ruled by its own king. The political situation seems to be
volatile, with Canaanite rulers frequently requesting Egyptian intervention to settle
disputes between various urban centers. What does this mean for our understanding of the Exodus?
For those who hold to a 15th century BCE Exodus, the Amarna letters make this position almost
completely untenable. Essentially, the Israelites would have left Egypt, wandered in the wilderness
for 40 years, and entered the land of Canaan, which was under the control of the Egyptians.
By the end of the 12th century BCE, Egyptian influence had waned, as Dr. Kilibru notes.
Egyptian influence is evident in Canaan through much of the 12th century. However,
by the middle of the century, Egyptian prestige was battered and in decline.
The situation depicted in the Amarna letters led to Dr. Grab's conclusion.
In addition to the Amarna tablets, there are a few Egyptian papyri that seem to present
circumstances that are consistent with aspects of the canonical form of the Exodus story.
We will briefly examine two of these in this section.
Let's take a look at some of these details. In Papyrus Anastasi Theph,
we see a report of two workers who had fled Egypt. The text describes the route that they took
in their escape. Dr. Allen notes, that the passage in question reads as follows.
Malamat identified four parallels between this
text and what the Hebrew Bible reports concerning the Exodus.
First, slaves are reported to have escaped from the city of Ramesses.
Second, the text reports that the Egyptian military pursued the runaway slaves.
Third, the route that the slaves took appears to correspond with the biblical account.
Ramesses, Jeku, Sukkha, Migdal, and then north of Migdal.
Finally, the slaves fled at night. Obviously, some of these parallels
seem to be less meaningful than others, like slaves running away at night.
Nevertheless, it does show that attempts by slaves to escape captivity in Egypt did occur,
and that this did not go unnoticed by Egyptian officials who pursued them in order to return
them to their masters. Papyrus Anastasi The Six may also inform this discussion on the Exodus.
It describes the movement of Edomite pastoralists across the border into Egypt to water their flocks.
The text reads, Another information for my Lord that we have just let the Shasu tribes of Edom
pass the fortress of Manepta Hetefermat, LPH of Jeku, to the pool of Pithom of Manepta Hetefermat,
of Jeku, in order to revive themselves and revive their flocks. From the great life force
of Pharaoh, LPH, the perfect son of every land, in Regnal year eight, third Epigaminal day,
the birth of Seth. I have sent them in a copy of report to where my Lord is, together with the
other names of days on which the fortress of Manepta, Hetefermat, LPH, life, prosperity,
and health of Jeku was passed. Concerning this text, Dr. Allen writes,
The letter refers to the arrival of Bedouin and their flocks from the northern Sinai desert at
one of the Egyptian border fortresses erected during the Ramseid period. As such, it reflects
the careful control that Egypt exercised during this period on traffic in and out of the Eastern
Delta. The movements reported here should be included in the Exodus discussion, in that they
suggest that movement was allowed into Egypt, although this movement was apparently documented
and controlled. While there are other papyri that can potentially provide additional information,
these two should suffice for our purposes. As you can see from these brief summaries,
we appear to have some supporting evidence for aspects of the Exodus story. However,
it is clear that these data alone indicate nothing more than that such things as runaway slaves
and movements of people groups into Egypt were known during this period. One cannot conclude
from these papyri that the Exodus is therefore historically reliable.
Archaeological evidence from Egypt
In addition to textual evidence that contributes to our understanding of an Exodus, archaeological
findings are essential to formulating a proper reconstruction of the event. In what follows,
we will examine some of the most common pieces of evidence that appear in the discussion.
First, we will consider the number of people that were reported to have participated in the
Exodus from Egypt in the Hebrew Bible. We will then discuss the control that Egypt enforced on
its borders and how this bears on the story of the Exodus. Finally, we will retrace the purported
root of the Exodus and the wanderings through the wilderness to see if these sites can be identified
and if they conform to the story as presented in the Bible, particularly with respect to the date
that the Exodus event is supposed to have taken place. How Many People Left Egypt
Perhaps the first and most important question that arises with respect to the archaeological
evidence for the Exodus concerns the number of people that are purported to have left Egypt.
We read in Exodus 1237. In other words, there were 600,000 young men of fighting age who set out
from the city of Ramses in Egypt. This does not include, however, the young children or it would
seem the women. Scholars estimate, therefore, that if women and children were included in the
number, there would have been somewhere between two and three million people who would have exited
Egypt. Conservative scholars are quick to criticize this conclusion, however. For example,
Dr. Kenneth Kitchen writes rather strongly. There is not the slightest reason to credit
the common misreading of the Hebrew text in Egypt Exod 1237 as 600,000 and to make it imply
two million people. But why is this reading of the text to be rejected? Kitchen argues,
Hebrew eleph is as ambiguous as English bark, skin of tree, noise of dog type of ship being either
thousand, family or other group or leader. In other words, the Hebrew word that is translated
thousand is eleph, which can be rendered in different ways depending on the context. It is one of these
other translations that should be used in this verse, so the argument goes. More recently,
Dr. Hofmeier has presented this argument against a group of people numbering in the millions.
He recognizes the difficulty with such a large number, leaving Egypt. Logistically,
this is impossible. Egypt's entire population in the new kingdom is estimated to be just three
million, while Pyrrha messes has been reckoned to be 300,000. As with Kitchen, he argues that the
Hebrew word eleph should not be understood as thousand, but rather as a military unit. Unfortunately,
this position is not without its problems, not the least of which is the motivation
to find a different translation for the word. Listen to Dr. Hofmeier's reasoning.
One can only conclude that the 600,000 has been misunderstood by translators and commentators
until more recent times, when other historical records and archaeological data
offer a clearer picture about the sizes of armies and the realities of populations in Egypt
and the Levant during the second millennium BC. In other words, scholars have thought this meant
600,000 for all this time. But now that we know that there could not have been so many people,
the solution must be that everyone has just mistranslated and misunderstood the word,
rather than concluding that the text may have just gotten it wrong. Indeed, there are several other
passages that indicate that the body of Israelites emerging from Egypt and moving toward Canaan
was not only enormous, but matched the figure given in Exodus 1237. During their first year in
the wilderness, for example, a census was taken of the people. In Exodus 3012-16, we see that in
this census, every male 20 years and older was to be counted and was required to give an offering
of a half shekel of silver. Later, in Exodus 38-25-26, we see that following the census,
the silver that was gathered from it was used in the building of the tabernacle. In verses 25-26,
we read, And the silver of the numbered of the congregation was won 100 talents and 1,000
sentence and 75 shekels according to the shekel of the sanctuary. A becker per head, a half a
shekel according to the shekel of the sanctuary, for everyone crossing over to those who were numbered
from 20 years old and up, for 603,150 men. Exodus 38-25-26. Remember, in Exodus 1237,
the text said that about 600,000 fighting men went out of Egypt. Here, the passage indicates that
100 talents and 1,175 shekels of silver were collected from all those who were 20 years old
and up, the fighting men who would be counted in the census. A little bit of math here, one talent,
3,000 shekels, so 100 talents, 300,000 shekels. Add to this the 1,175 shekels and you get
3,175 shekels of silver. Stay with me here. If each fighting male was required to give a half
shekel of silver when he was counted in the census, that would mean that if we multiply the 3,175
shekels by two, we arrive at the total number of men, 20 years and older that were counted in the
census, 603,550 exactly the number we see in verse 26. When we compare this number to the census
that is taken in numbers one to two, we see that the total number of males 20 years and older came
to, you guessed it, 603,550, numbers 146 and 232 and we are not left to guess how they came to these
figures. For example, in numbers one, we see the following breakdown by tribes seen on this chart.
You have the chart on the left and census on the right. Ruben had 46,500, Simeon had 59,300, Gad had
45,650, Judah had 74,600, Issachar had 54,400, Zebulon had 57,400, Ephraim had 40,500, Manasseh
had 32,200, Benjamin had 35,400, Dan had 62,700, Asher had 45,500 and lastly, Neftali had 53,400
totaling at 603,050 men. In other words, the figure seen in Exodus 12,37, approximately 600,000,
is paralleled in both Exodus 38 and numbers one to 603,550. This first census was followed by a
census at the end of the wilderness wanderings in numbers 26,51. These are the ones where we're
numbered of the children of Israel, 601,730 men. When you compare the numbers of the individual tribes,
you see that some tribes increased in number while some decreased. In the end, the number 601,730 is
not the same as 603,550. Not that we would expect it to be the same after 40 years, but it is close
to the approximately 600,000 figure. Another passage is worth noting here. In numbers 11,
the people complain about the food that Yahweh has provided them. They want meat to eat and Moses
complains that the people are too many for him to find meat for them all. Yahweh promises to provide
quail for them to eat. And in numbers 11, 21, and 22, we see Moses' response to this promise.
And Moses said, 600,000 on foot are this people whom I am among. And you have said,
I will give meat to them that they may eat for an entire month. Will sheep and cattle be slaughtered
for them, that it may be sufficient for them? If all the fish of the sea would be gathered for them,
would it be sufficient for them? Numbers 11, 23. Moses' complaint is that, given the vast size
of the Israelite host, how on earth will Yahweh be able to provide enough meat to feed them all?
Flocks of sheep, herds of cattle, even all the fish of the sea. Would this be enough?
Yahweh's response is fitting. And Yahweh said to Moses,
is the power of Yahweh limited? Numbers 11, 23. Finally, we should consider the words of the
Moabites in Numbers 22, one to five. And the children of Israel traveled and camped in the
plains of Moab on the other side of the Jordan from Jericho. And Balak, the son of Zippor,
saw all that Israel did to the Amorites. And Moab was very afraid of the people
because they were numerous. And Moab was horrified of the children of Israel. And Moab said to the
elders of Midian, now this assembly will lick up everything that is around us, as the bull licks
up the grass of the field. Now Balak, the son of Zippor, was king of Moab at that time. And he
sent messengers to Balam, the son of Beor, to Peter, which is along the river in the land of the children
of his people to call him, saying, a people went out from Egypt, and now they cover the surface
of the land. And they are dwelling opposite me, Numbers 22, one to five. The passage describes
the Moabites as being very afraid and horrified of the Israelites, because they were numerous,
Numbers 22, three. The words used to describe their fear are interesting. For example, Dr.
Levine notes that, the first word afraid, Hebrew, voices, extreme fear, the terror of war, Job 1929.
And what caused this extreme fear, the number of the Israelites, it would seem that the Israelites
comprised a massive horde that is encamped opposite the Jordan, threatening the very survival of the
Moabites. When we see how the very numerous people who left Egypt are described by the narrative,
the straightforward impression is that the reader is intended to understand the Israelite company
as a literal 600,000 fighting men, besides women and children. Dr. Prop writes,
security at the border. One might argue that here, Ellep means not thousand, but clan or even,
squad, CF, Num, 31 to 4 to 6, etc. Thus, the number of Hebrew men leaving Egypt could have been much
less than 600,000. On the other hand, in Num, 1121, 6. 100 Ellepim is imagined to be a huge number,
and P records that exactly 625,150 adult men left Egypt exod 3826, Num, 339. It seems, therefore,
that we must take 1237, Num, 1121, literally. Getting out of Egypt.
A question that we need to ask ourselves is, could a group of slaves, however large you think that
group was, have crossed the border of Egypt and done so without leaving a trace? As we saw before,
Papyrus Anastasi V, dated to the 13th, or even early 12th century, speaks of two workers,
shaksh slaves, who were attempting to escape from Egypt across the border into Canaanite territory.
Moreover, in Papyrus Anastasi VI, we learned that the traffic coming into Egypt was also controlled,
as shepherds and their flocks from the Sinai entering Egypt to water their animals were
tracked. The fact that such attention would be paid to incoming foreigners and their flocks,
as well as two slaves attempting to escape from Egypt, suggests that any significant movement
of people in or out of Egypt would likely not escape notice in the textual records where such
things were apparently documented. Doctors Finkelstein and Silberman have pointed out that
following the period of Heeksos rule, CRE 1650, 1550 BCE, the borders of Egypt were more carefully
patrolled and guarded, they explain. Furthermore, as we saw in the Amarna letters,
the Egyptians remained in control of the land of Canaan until into the 12th century BCE. If we
think back to the Merneptah Stele, dated to 1207 BCE, we remember that Merneptah fought against
several groups in the land of Canaan, still under their control, including Israel. Finkelstein and
Silberman described a situation in the 13th century like this. The Egyptian grip over Canaan was firm,
Egyptian strongholds were built in various places in the country, and Egyptian officials
administered the affairs of the region. They conclude, the border between Canaan and Egypt
was thus closely controlled. If a great mass of fleeing Israelites had passed through the
border fortifications of the Pharaonic regime, a record should exist. Yet in the abundant Egyptian
sources describing the time of the new kingdom in general and the 13th century in particular,
there is no reference to the Israelites, not even a single clue. The root of the Exodus and
wandering. Nearly 30 years ago, the Egyptologist and archaeologist Donald Redford wrote,
Whoever supplied the geographical information that now adorns the story of the Exodus
had no information earlier than the Sate period, 7th to 6th centuries BC.
In other words, when Redford examined the place names or toponyms that are recorded in the story
of the Exodus, like Goshen, Land of Ramesses, read C. He determined that they did not come from the
mid to late 2nd millennium BCE, but rather from centuries later, during the 7th or 6th centuries
BCE. This idea has since been challenged by evangelical scholars. Perhaps foremost among
those arguing for an early date of the names mentioned in the Exodus narrative is the Egyptologist
James Hofmeyer. He has argued in several publications that the root of the Exodus and
wilderness wanderings is consistent with what we know of toponyms in the late 2nd millennium BCE
Lee. Hofmeyer's argument focuses on the following major question. Is the picture portrayed in Genesis
39 through Exodus 15 compatible with what is known from Egyptian history? In other words,
if we are reading through the Exodus story, do the toponyms that we see reflect an earlier
historical context in the 13th century BCE, or are they more consistent with a later period
like the 7th or 6th centuries BCE? Of course, the goal of this section is not to delve into all
the archaeological and historical complexities that are involved in this discussion. Instead,
I would like to provide an overview of the sites that are under contention and the general positions
that scholars take on each. We will examine the cities and places that are mentioned in the Exodus
story, followed by those that appear in the wilderness wandering. Before we begin, I would
like to point out one of the problematic aspects of this discussion. Let's say that by the end of
this section, we are all convinced that the toponyms that appear in the Exodus story indeed
fit in a late 2nd millennium BCE context. Where does that get us? While it might lend some support
to the idea that the Exodus tradition as are early, or perhaps go back to an earlier period,
does it actually tell us anything about the historicity of the events as described in the story?
No, it doesn't. In fact, this is also true of much of what we have discussed above,
including things like Canaanite slaves and Egypt, people coming to Egypt for sustenance and slaves
escaping to Canaan. Does this demonstrate, or even suggest, that the essential aspects of the
Exodus traditions are true? It does not. In fact, I think Ray Elliott and Flesher said it quite well.
Yes. Were there sacred mountains in the Sinai Desert? Yes. Were there groups of people with
names like Israel or Hebrews? Yes. Did large numbers of people settle new territory in Canaan?
Yes. Is there any non-biblical evidence for worshipers of the God Yahweh? Yes. Unfortunately,
the evidence for all these yes answers does not lead us to the single collection of tribes
known as the Israelites, and their activities over a period of 40 to 45 years. The events
and activities comprise a wonderful background setting for the dramatic Exodus story, lending
it plausibility but failing to support the historical accuracy of this specific tale.
In short, there are many stories that are cast in a historical setting to lend the narrative
a type of verisimilitude. However, in a best case scenario for someone arguing for the historicity
of the Exodus story, identifying correlations between the toponyms in the narrative and what
history and archaeology can tell us about those late second millennium sites will only result
in a wonderful background setting for the narrative itself, not in the historicity of the events
described. With that caveat in mind, let's begin with Exodus 111. And they set over them taskmasters
in order to oppress them with hard labor, and they built storage cities for Pharaoh,
Pithom, and Ramses. Here the story speaks of two cities, Pithom and Ramses. This is incredibly
problematic for the traditional dating of the Exodus, as these cities were built too late
to fit a 15th century date, Klein writes. Archaeological excavations at the sites of these
ancient cities indicate that they were begun by Setid the Punas to pin 190 BC, and were completed
by Ramses II, Sechre 1250 BC. There is general agreement that Ramses refers to the site of
Contir, Egyptian, P-Rameses, which means the house of Ramesses. From a dating perspective,
there is an issue with the way in which the name Ramses is written in the Hebrew Bible. In a series
of publications, Donald Redford, Wolfgang Helk, James Hawke, James Hofmeier, and Kenneth Kitchen
have debated several issues concerning the historicity of the Exodus. In some of the articles,
attention has been drawn to the absence of the prefix Pi on the name Ramses, which we would
expect, given the name of the city, is Piramas. But moreover, in the Hebrew Bible, the prefix does
appear on the name of another storage city, Pithom. There is also an issue with the type of S
that is used to write Ramses in Hebrew. There are two letters in Hebrew which signal this sound,
and where we expect one, it is written with the other. What is the significance of the debate?
Why does it matter if the prefix Pi appears with the word Ramses, or if the correct type of S is
used to write the name? They seem to suggest, as written in the Hebrew Bible, that those who wrote
these stories did so. Without first-hand knowledge of the places they describe. In other words,
these stories entered into the textual record much later than the late Bronze Age. For example,
concerning not only the use of the type of S in Ramses, but also the form of the name itself.
Dr. Redford writes that. This is the distorted vocalization which the Hebrew reflects,
not that of the original Bronze Age pronunciation. The rendering of Egyptian
Esh, Sin, by Esha Samekh, however, demonstrates that the form of the name R-M's SW entered Hebrew
and other West Semitic languages no earlier than the end of the eighth cent. Problems with
the identification of the city Pithom are even more glaring than this naming issue. There are
two sites that vie for the identification of Pithom, House of Atum, Tel El-Maskuta, and Tel Er-Ritaba.
Doctors write, Eliot and Fletcher write. B.C. There is no agreement on the location of Pithom.
Divided opinion identifies Pithom with the sites of Tel Er-Ritaba or Tel El-Maskuta. The site of
Tel Er-Ritaba may date to the 13th or 12th century B.C.E. Its occupation ends in the 7th century B.C.E.
as Maskuta was being built. You can see the dating again is a factor in the discussion.
If we identify Pithom with Tel Er-Ritaba, then it would seem that the city was occupied sufficiently
in the New Kingdom to fit with the Exodus story. However, if Pithom is to be identified with Tel
El-Maskuta, there is a chronological problem as the city was not built until the 7th century B.C.E.
At least 500 years after the purported events of the Exodus. In short, as Wright,
Eliot, and Fletcher put it. If the author of the book of Exodus believed the Israelites built
Pithom at Tel El-Maskuta, then the story is clearly a 7th century B.C.E. invention.
It does not seem as though the matter is yet settled. Dr. Grabb summarizes.
Most who write on the matter are cautious about identifying Pithom, and there are clearly a number
of uncertainties. Evangelical scholars Hofmeyer, Kitchin, and Biotak all identify Pithom with
Tel Er-Ritaba. In contrast, Dr. Dever argues, Pithom, Exod 111, is almost certainly Tel El-Maskuta,
excavated several times and known to have been occupied in New Kingdom times.
There are many other sites that could be discussed in this section, but each one carries with it
similar problematic issues, including Suckoth, Migdal, and the Land of Goshen.
Again, we must remember that as with the previous sites and their identifications,
even if all references were clearly meant to be identified with those of the New Kingdom,
this would only serve to show that the background to the story is consistent with the narrative,
not the historicity of the events in question. Drs. Wright, Eliot, and Fletcher conclude that
such a set of identifications simply provides a reasonable context for the setting of the tale,
a geographical conclusion rather than a historical one. Before we move out of Egypt and into the
wilderness, we should deal briefly with the problem of the Suf Sea. There is no shortage of
suggestions for identifying which body of water, if any, is being referred to in the narrative.
Dr. Biotak, for example, identified it as the Bala Lakes, arguing that
this yamsuf is in all likelihood identifiable with the Egyptian toponym PyTWF, the papyrus
thicket known from the Ramesside period. Dr. Grab, citing a 2011 study by Roskop,
observes that yamsuf is usually a reference to some portion of the Red Sea, but that in the
Exodus narrative, it is instead a reference to the Reed Sea, most likely Lake Timsa,
or the surrounding area in the Suez region. In other words, depending on the context in which
yamsuf occurs, it can refer to different bodies of water. Taking a completely different approach,
Dr. Bernard Badot recently argued for a mythological understanding of the Suf Sea. He writes,
The Reed Sea hypothesis is flawed and must be given up. Yamsuf should thus be translated as
the Sea of End, that is, it is the last sea, the sea situated at the edge of creation.
Dr. Badot's argument is complex and deals with the mythological connections between different
aspects of the exodus narrative and other, Ancient, near Eastern mythologies. Dr. Grab has noted
other connections between toponyms in the Exodus story that also appear to be mythologized. For
example, let's consider King Og of Bashan. If we compare these descriptions to a prayer composed
to several deities written in the Ugaritic language from the 13th century, we see the
following in the opening lines. Both Ashtarot, Ahtarat in Ugaritic, and Edrei are mentioned
in this text as the place where Rapu, parallel to the Refame in Deuteronomy 311, is located.
It appears that there is interplay between mythology and toponyms in the narrative.
Grabby concludes, In light of the different ways in which the Suf Sea can be rendered and the
mythological character of other toponyms associated with the exodus, it seems quite reasonable,
if not likely, that searching for a specific location for this body of water is misguided.
Wright, Eliot, and Flesher conclude, Thus it appears that myth has been historicized and the
shades of the dead have been turned into ethnographical entities. The writer seems at times to have
taken traditional or mythical names and used them to create a narrative about ethnic groups.
In light of the different ways in which the Suf Sea can be rendered and the mythological
character of other toponyms associated with the exodus, it seems quite reasonable, if not likely,
that searching for a specific location for this body of water is misguided. Wright, Eliot, and
Flesher conclude, The quest to identify the physical location of the Yam Suf is fruitless,
because it has become a place of mythic importance, not geographical location.
It was a place where a divine act was believed to have taken place, and that place was remembered
or used by different authors in different ways. The archaeological evidence for the rest of the
journey out of Egypt and the subsequent wandering in the wilderness is similarly sparse, if the
exodus narrative were historically accurate, we would expect to see material culture from this
time period at the archaeological sites mentioned in the wilderness wanderings. As you may by now
have guessed, such material is sorely lacking. In 2015, Finkelstein summarized his analysis of the
archaeological remains from several sites mentioned in the wilderness wanderings. One of these sites
was Etzion Gaber, Tel El-Khalifa, a site to which the Israelites traveled as described in numbers
33, 35, 36, and Deuteronomy 2.8. Although there may be a few sherds at the site that date to the
12th century BCE, Finkelstein writes, No less important, no 10th century finds have been uncovered
at Tel El-Khalifa. The first significant settlement there was established in the 8th century BCE.
In other words, there was no occupation during the time that the Israelites were purported to
have arrived, and no material remains suggest that such a group stayed at the site. A similar
state of affairs is found at Kadesh Barnea, Tel El-Kudirat, an important site within the wandering
tradition, which would be expected to contain some diagnostic material culture from the period.
However, as Grab writes, any archaeological remains at the site which could help to validate the story
are sadly absent. According to the Book of Numbers 1011, 1216, 1326, 21, 22, 33, 36,
much of the 40 years of wandering in the wilderness was spent near Kadesh or Kadesh or Kadesh Barnea.
This and related sites in Sinai and Southern Palestine should yield ample evidence of a
large population in this region, yet we find nothing. While some of the material culture
may date to the 12th century BCE, Stratum 4C, it appears that the earliest settlement at the site
dates to the 10th century BCE. Dever writes, There are only three superimposed forts dating
respectively to the 10th, the 8th, and the 7th centuries BCE. Earlier than that, there are no
structures, only a scattering of sherds. At most, a few stragglers passed this way in the late 13th
or early 12th century BCE. Finkelstein and Silberman explain the situation even more directly.
Yet repeated excavations and surveys throughout the entire area have not provided even the slightest
evidence for activity in the late Bronze Age, not even a single sherd left by a tiny fleeing band
of frightened refugees. Tying the history and archaeology together.
To sum up this section, let's briefly revisit what we've learned. First, Exodus 1237 tells us
that approximately 600,000 fighting men, excluding women and children, made their way out of Egypt.
This group of 2-3 million people, by everyone's standards, represents an impossible number.
While some have reinterpreted the Hebrew word Aleph 1000 as something akin to a military unit,
and thus a much smaller number, this does not appear to hold and breaks the internal coherence
of the narrative. Dever puts it this way. We explored the possibility that
such a group of Israelite slaves could even have exited Egypt without leaving a trace.
As we saw, following the expulsion of the Hyksos, Egypt tightened the security on its borders.
We learned from the textual record that movements in and out of Egypt during the
late 2nd millennium were apparently closely tracked. Furthermore, during the Amarna period
and following, Egypt maintained control over Canaan, complete with a series of forts throughout
the region. This would make escape from Egypt into Canaan without detection not only highly
unlikely, but somewhat pointless, as they would have been moving from land controlled.
By Egypt into another land controlled by Egypt, we then turned to some of the different sites
that are thought to line the route that the Israelites purportedly took out of Egypt.
It turns out that some of the sites may have scant archaeological remains that fit the
appropriate time period for an Exodus. Other sites, it seems, have no material remains stemming
from the necessary periods and therefore cause significant problems for fitting their archaeology
together with the biblical narrative. Some common Exodus interpretations.
We have looked at many of the problems with the historicity of the Exodus story
as presented in the Hebrew Bible. I would like to now present some of the more common
interpretations of the Exodus story among biblical scholars. The proponents of these ideas
generally fall into two camps. Those who think that the events described in the Pentateuch are,
at least at some level, historical in nature and those that do not. In what follows, I will attempt
to present the consensus position among experts on the Exodus as well as other common positions.
We have already mentioned the 2015 edited volume Israel's Exodus in Transdisciplinary
Perspective, Text, Archaeology, Culture, and Geoscience several times in this section.
And for good reason, this publication is the culmination of research presented
at a 2013 conference at the University of California, San Diego. The editors of the volume
rightly describe it as,
The most innovative gathering of thought assembled on the topic of Israel's Exodus from Egypt.
While more recent publications have been produced on the Exodus since this volume came out,
it remains a standard work on the topic. In this volume, Lawrence Jurati contributed an article
in which he surveys the various positions of relevant scholars in the field when it comes
to the Exodus. At one point, he draws specific attention to the significance of the conference.
Indeed, one might say that we have a majority of the consensus-making scholars of the Exodus
represented here, assembled all in one place for the first time in such numbers to discuss the Exodus.
In keeping with the procedure for evaluating the events described according to how well
they reflect historical reality, Jurati distinguishes between the
traditional date 15th century BCE, the consensus date 13th century BCE, and other theories.
So let's take a look at these in broad strokes. The traditional date 15th century BCE, the traditional
date of the Exodus is based on a more literal reading of the Hebrew Bible. And there are several
data points that can be joined together to come to a 15th century date for the Exodus.
This position was recently defended by Scott Stripling in a 2021 Evangelical
publication on different views on the Exodus. Let's take a look at some of the key passages
and concepts that are used to defend this early dating. In Ferdinand VI, we read,
Now in the 480th year after the children of Israel came out from the land of Egypt,
in the fourth year, in the month of Ziv, that is the second month, of the reign of Solomon over Israel,
he built the house of Yahweh. Notice that the text says that the fourth year of Solomon's reign
was 480 years after the Israelites left Egypt. Jurati writes,
Most scholars agree that the fourth year of Solomon is circa 970 BCE. If we do the math,
we find that 480 years before 970 BCE or thereabouts brings us to somewhere around
the middle of the 15th century BCE. Dr. Stripling also cites Judges 1126, which reads,
When Israel lived in Heshbon and in its daughter villages, and in Arora and its daughter villages,
and in all the cities that are next to Arnon 300 years, why did you not take them back during that
time? This story, which takes place during the period of the Judges, is purported to have transpired
sometime at the end of the second millennium, perhaps around 1100 BCE. If the Israelites had
been living in the land for 300 years prior to the time of the Judges, C.A. 1100, then this would mean
that they came into Canaan around 1400 BCE, a date that would fit well with an Exodus in the middle
of the 15th century BCE. This traditional date is held by only a small number of biblical scholars
at present. In fact, there are both liberal and evangelical scholars alike who are highly critical
of this early date. Much of the criticism stems from the archaeological evidence that has come to
light concerning this period in Egypt and the southern Levant. Garadi summarizes,
The main objection, however, to a 15th century date for the Exodus, other than the nature of the
biblical text, relates to the results of excavations at Palestinian cities mentioned in the biblical
account. Cities such as Heshbon, Jericho, A'i, Bethel, De Beir, and Ghibion ad hoc explanations
can be supplied for most of these sites, but there is no question that the archaeological
evidence is inconclusive at best and problematic at worst. The consensus date, 13th century BCE.
I need to be very clear about what is meant by the consensus date as described in this section.
Someone might read this and say, Aha! You see, scholars agree that there was an actual historical
Exodus and it took place in the 13th century BCE. No, actually, pay close attention to what
Garadi says about this consensus date. But it is primarily the archaeological evidence from
excavated Palestinian sites that has been used to bolster the current scholarly consensus that
if there was an Israelite Exodus from Egypt, it must have occurred sometime in the 13th century BCE.
In other words, if an Exodus somehow did occur, whatever size and however close to the biblical
narrative, it would have occurred in the 13th century BCE. On the more conservative end of the
consensus date spectrum would be someone like James Hofmeier, who argues for the historical
reliability of the Exodus narrative. His most common argument for its historicity during the
13th century centers on how the story accurately represents the historical backdrop of the narrative.
He writes, My contention is that if the stage on which the drama of the biblical story is
acted out contains authentic sets and props that fit the geographical setting and the
chronological parameters, then the plausibility of the narratives is enhanced.
While the plausibility of the narrative may be enhanced by an accurate historical backdrop,
it is important to note that plausibility is not the same as historical fact.
We know that there was a large settlement at the city of Uruk
and that King Gilgamesh was an historical figure. But no one argues that because the
historical backdrop of the epic of Gilgamesh is accurate, the feats recounted in that text
are historically accurate. The significant hurdles that this position on the Exodus must
overcome are those that we discussed in the earlier portion of this chapter. For example,
how can the biblical story be historically reliable when it describes 600,000 fighting
men exiting Egypt? As we noted above, Hofmeyer and others argue that the Hebrew word Aleph
must mean a much smaller number than 1000 and thus interpret it as something like a military
unit. Similar types of explanations are provided for the earlier dates appearing in the text like
War Kings 6-1 and Judges 11-26 seen before, along with reasons for the absence of any archaeological
or textual evidence for the Exodus event as described. A more common 13th century BCE
interpretation does not view the biblical story as generally historically reliable,
but rather containing a kernel of truth embedded within the historical record that has been remembered
and mythologized. For example, Dr. Kilibru writes,
In light of the lack of evidence in the Egyptian texts and the archaeological remains of an Exodus
of this magnitude, it is not surprising that scholars have suggested that the Exodus does
not represent a specific historical moment, but rather numerous exoduses of runaway,
Asiatic slaves that were telescoped into a single event. We should see it as reflecting a powerful
collective memory of the Egyptian occupation of Canaan and the enslavement of its population,
which reached its greatest impact during the 13th and 12th centuries BCE.
Other theories. Garadi lists and briefly describes a number of other theories for the date of the
Exodus event as all ranging between the late 3rd millennium BCE and the end of the 8th century BCE.
Instead of going through each of these, I would like to focus on some of the more common positions
that hold that the Exodus is not a historical event. Let's take a look at the positions of
Prop, Hendel, and Finkelstein. William Prop, both in his monumental two-volume commentary on Exodus
in the Anchor Yale series, as well as in his 2015 article in the transdisciplinary volume
we have been discussing, argues that the Exodus cannot be called historical. On the grounds that
the evidence for it is spread out over too long a time period. He lists several lines of evidence
from the early to the late 2nd millennium BCE that may correspond to the events as described in the
biblical text, but concludes, While there may be a memory of several events that share similar
aspects with the Exodus, Prop argues that the story is not historical, as it cannot even be
subjected to the historical method. Similarly, Ronald Hendel has argued that the Exodus is an
example of cultural memory or a representation of the past with present relevance transmitted by
the authoritative texts and interpreters of a particular group. Hendel agrees that several
aspects of the Exodus story enhance its verisimilitude, the presence of Canaanite slaves in
Egypt, their escape, and the destruction of certain areas in Canaan. However, as with Prop,
these details are not to be attributed to a single historical event. Rather, they were often quite
standard for much of the 2nd millennium BCE. Instead, Hendel writes,
The broad picture of Israel's emergence as a result of escape from Egyptian slavery
is best comprehended by the circumstances of Israel's origins in the Late Bronze Age Iron Age
transition, which the Exodus story purports to describe. Finally, Israel Finkelstein has argued
that the text described realities that fit the time of the compilation of the text in the late
monarchic to post-exilic days. While still seeing cultural memory as an important factor, Finkelstein
argues that the tradition of the Exodus, which were primarily northern in nature, were brought to
the south following the fall of Samaria to the Assyrians in 722 BCE. The Exodus tradition that
was brought from the north, he argues, was elaborated on and transformed in the period of Assyrian
domination over Judah when Judah Heights became intimately acquainted with places in the desert.
This new familiarity with desert toponyms resulted in their inclusion in the newly
developing Exodus tradition, explaining why the Exodus story was known to the 8th century BCE
prophets, but contained these later elements, the Exodus verdict.
We have covered quite a bit of information concerning the Exodus from Egypt, both as it is
presented in the narrative of the Hebrew Bible and as it can be understood from historical and
archaeological sources. As you have seen, this is not an issue on which biblical scholars and
archaeologists are an overwhelming agreement in all the details. Nevertheless, there is certainly
a consensus on what the Exodus was not. Before we attempt to draw some general conclusions from
the data that we have presented above, let's take a minute and briefly review the contents of the
chapter. We began with the narrative itself, the story of the Exodus that the Old Testament presents.
It begins with the descent of the Israelites into Egypt and concludes with their deliverance
from the Egyptian army by Yahweh's power. But this story on its own is not sufficient to establish
the historicity of the events it purports, although many think that it is. It was necessary
to examine the evidence for the events that are described in the story.
The first references to the Exodus traditions came from texts in the Hebrew Bible. Perhaps
the earliest can be found in Exodus 15, the so-called Song of the Sea, dating at the earliest
to the end of the second millennium BCE. These 18 verses present some aspects of the story as it
appears in the Book of Exodus, but clearly does not contain many of its key features. We next
examined the oracles of Balaam found in Numbers 23-24, which may date to the ninth or eighth
centuries BCE. Again, this text appears to show that an Exodus tradition in some form
was known to the writer, but it is not the complete story as we have it in the Book of Exodus.
We then reviewed two of the early prophets, Hosea and Amos, and noted the passages in their books
that speak of the Exodus from Egypt, as with the Song of the Sea and the oracles of Balaam,
while the prophetic writings appear to date fairly early, eighth century BCE. They do not seem to
contain a full or closely parallel version of the Exodus tradition seen in the other texts.
Finally, we briefly examined the Myrnepta Stele, which is the earliest known reference to a people
group known as Israel. While the inscription contains no mention of or allusion to an Exodus
tradition, this reference to Israel is important for establishing the existence of a group that
self-identified as Israel as early as 1207 BCE. Moreover, this group was significant enough
to have been documented by the Egyptian pharaoh in a victory monument. Following this review of
early references to the Exodus traditions, we considered the evidence from Egypt that bears
on the Exodus discussion. Beginning with the textual data, we saw that an incredibly important
and sometimes overlooked group of texts was found at Tel-Elimana, dating to the 14th century BCE.
These texts describe interactions between the pharaoh and his vassals in the land of Canaan,
making them extremely valuable in determining the state of affairs that existed in Canaan
during this period. Among other things, we learned that Canaan was firmly under the control of Egypt
during most of the second half of the second millennium BCE. This is very problematic for the
Exodus story, as it would require the Israelites to leave a land controlled by Egypt and escape to
another land controlled by Egypt. While the Amarna letters do not present supporting evidence for
the Exodus story as it is told in the Hebrew Bible, there are several Egyptian papyri that
establish to greater or lesser degrees the verisimilitude of the background of the Exodus story.
We learned from these papyri that there were Canaanite slaves that had on occasion escaped from
Egypt and that their route out of Egypt was in some ways similar to that which was taken by
the Israelites in the story. We also saw that shepherds would bring their flocks into Egypt
to water them, and this was documented at the border. In addition to the textual evidence,
there was also archaeological data that needed to be considered. Perhaps the most difficult problem
for a historical reading of the Exodus story as presented in the Hebrew Bible is the number
of Israelites purported to have left Egypt. We learned from several biblical sources that
600,000 fighting men were said to have exited the land, leading to an estimate of two, three
million people participating in the Exodus in total. While several attempts have been made to
reinterpret this figure, we saw that the text seems to understand this number as it has always
been interpreted. Indeed, other aspects of the story rely on the fact that the Israelites
were a massive horde that exited Egypt and were making their way through the desert to the land
of Canaan. Other archaeological and historical data suggested that following the expulsion of
the Hyksos in 1570 BCE, there was tightened security at the Egyptian border for people
moving both in and out. This would have made the departure of a group of Israelite slaves
incredibly difficult to miss. Finally, we looked at some of the toponyms that were mentioned as
part of the route that the Israelites took out of Egypt, with a focus on two cities mentioned
in the biblical text, Pithom and Ramses. While the mention of several of these toponyms could
reflect circumstances as they were in the 13th century BCE, they quite often also fit well,
sometimes much better, in a later period, hundreds of years after the period in which the Exodus
was supposed to have taken place. This led us to briefly consider some of the more common
interpretations that scholars hold with respect to the evidence presented above, the more traditional
position that the Exodus was a historical event that took place in the 15th century,
much as it is described in the Old Testament, is held by only a small number of scholars.
The majority of scholars seem to hold that there is likely at least a historical kernel that lies
behind the events, with a small percentage of these, like James Hofmeier, Kenneth Kitchen,
arguing for the general historicity of the events as described in the Book of Exodus,
those that conclude that there is some historical event, S, that stand behind the story.
Generally, think that this would have taken place in the 13th century BCE.
Finally, we looked at some of the other theories that consider the Exodus to be either not historical
or to have become a cultural memory that was passed on and reworked to suit the needs of those
transmitting the story. With all of this in mind, what can we say about the story of the Exodus
as we read it in the Old Testament? If you find yourself in a debate or discussion on this topic,
what are some important conclusions that you can reasonably draw and argue for? I think that two
things can be safely determined in light of the textual and archaeological evidence, and the atheist
or skeptic should feel comfortable standing on these conclusions. First, the Exodus as described
in the Old Testament is not historically reliable. Not only do we lack evidence for these events,
but the historical situation that we know of in the late Bronze Age in Egypt and Canaan is
incongruent with the events described in the text. As Prop observes, archaeologists and textual
historians agree that the biblical narrative is not contemporary with purported events,
has a complex literary prehistory and does not fit comfortably with known ancient Near Eastern
history. In order to overcome seemingly impossible details like two, three million people leaving
Egypt at one time, significant reinterpretations are required that appear to be quite problematic.
Second, the story has very similitude. The background to the narrative has many aspects
that generally fit with the circumstances of the second millennium. It would be unwise to conclude
that none of the concepts or themes in the Exodus narrative can be found in the world of ancient
Egypt and Canaan. There were Canaanite slaves in Egypt. Egypt did enslave and control the Canaanite
population in Canaan itself. There were slaves that escaped from Egypt. In fact, it is quite likely
that this familiar backdrop made it easier for the story to remain in popular usage. However,
and this is very important, just because some or even many of the toponyms or the
general backdrop might fit well in the second millennium, we must remember two things. First,
they do not all fit together in a specific moment in time. Many of these events took place spread
out over a period of hundreds of years. Second, just because the story contains some genuine
elements or even memories, we cannot simply conclude that the story as a whole is true.
As we often say, no one would conclude that Spider-Man is a true story simply because it took
place in New York City. In the end, what matters most about the story is that a literal two, three
million people were miraculously delivered from captivity following 10 supernatural plagues being
inflicted upon the wicked Egyptians. No, I don't think so. What matters most in my opinion is how
the story has been used by believers to sustain them through periods of great difficulty. Indeed,
stories can be incredibly powerful. By way of analogy, William Proppe has brilliantly described
the development of the miraculous story of the Battle of Mons during World War One. The British
soldiers under a fighting retreat came to believe that they had been delivered by angelic beings
who fought for them against the Germans. This was not an isolated story, but became an
international account of deliverance, even making its way into some sources as purported history.
What are we to make of such a story, and how can it help us understand the Exodus? Prop writes,
We know that the Battle of Mons occurred. We know its precise dates. We know its exact location.
We know the historical context. We can date much and story to the day. We can supply
oral and written testimony from literally thousands, probably tens of thousands of
diverse sources to gain a stereoscopic image of the times. In other words, we have precise
reference points to support historical analysis. Yet for all of this historical information
surrounding the events in question, there is universal consensus that angels did not miraculously
defeat the German army at the Battle of Mons. But did that really matter at the time? In a very
real sense, it did not. Rightly or wrongly, such a story not only bolstered the confidence of the
soldiers who believed they had been divinely delivered out of harm's way, but also reinforced
the unity of many of them around this shared experience. In the same way, the story of the
miraculous deliverance of Yahweh against the evil Egyptian pharaoh may have served to bolster
confidence and unify the fledgling group known as Israel, forming in the highlands of Canaan,
setting them apart from the surrounding people groups. At a minimum, the Exodus ultimately
served as a powerful origin story that continues to keep those who identify with it as a unified
people, even thousands of years later. What's next?
As our journey through the veiled corridors of history comes to a close, we hope this exploration
into the Exodus has ignited a spark of curiosity and critical thought within you. Myth vision is
committed to bringing you documentaries that challenge perceptions and illuminate truths
with the most cutting-edge scholarship available. Our odyssey through the tales of the past
is far from over. We are dedicated to dissecting not just the Bible, but various mythologies
across the globe, bringing the stories you thought you knew to life in ways you never imagined,
but to continue this ambitious journey we need you. By joining our Patreon or YouTube
membership program, you become part of the Myth Vision family, a community of thinkers,
seekers, and explorers just like you. Your support allows us to dive deeper, push further,
and bring more of these compelling narratives to light. If a one-time donation suits you better,
it is just as valuable in helping us continue these projects. Every contribution, big or small,
fuels our quest, and keeps the torch of understanding burning bright. So, as we conclude this chapter,
remember to check the description below to purchase Joshua Bowen's The Atheist Handbook
to the Old Testament. Dive deeper into the evidence and form your own conclusions. Don't
forget to like, subscribe, and join the conversation in the comments. Your engagement is the cornerstone
of our community. Thank you for watching, for questioning, and for journeying with us. Together,
let's continue to uncover the mysteries of our past to better understand our present and future.
This is Myth Vision, where every myth has a vision. Until next time, we are Myth Vision.
