The
Book of Judges, Israel's Age of Heroes
Some of the most interesting characters in the Bible can be found in the Book of Judges.
They are Samson, a renowned fighter who drew strength from his long hair, Shamgar, an obscure
warrior who massacred the Philistines with an ox-goad.
Gideon, a general who defeated the invading Midianite army with just 300 soldiers.
Deborah, a prophetess who delivered Israel from a Canaanite tyrant.
Most of these characters are mentioned nowhere else in the Old Testament, and the stories
seem rooted in legend and folklore.
Furthermore, the Book of Judges itself is an enigma.
When was it written?
Where does it fit within the biblical chronology?
And what historical reality underlies its mythic tales?
Before moving forward, I ask that everyone watching this documentary subscribe to Paul
Davidson's YouTube channel called Inquisitive Bible Reader.
His channel is filled with amazing deep dives in discovering these ancient myths and histories
from the Bible.
Also, he wrote this fantastic script on the Judges.
While you're over on his channel, let him know MythVision sent you.
Who Wore the Judges?
If you were brought up in Sunday school, you were probably taught that the Book of Judges
describes a period of time after the Exodus in which Israel was governed by Judges instead
of by kings.
However, this is at odds with what we actually find in the Book of Judges.
The Book of Judges is a collection of stories about Israel during a time when it was ruled
by warriors and chieftains without a true monarchy in its position between Joshua and
Samuel.
It fills in the chronological gap between the Exodus and the monarchy.
In terms of format, the book has an artificial structure that repeats a similar pattern over
and over.
Israel sends and is punished by being subjugated to its enemies.
Then Israel repents and Yahweh sends a deliverer to throw off the foreign yoke with the process
typically repeating over a 40 or 80 year cycle.
These deliveries are said, in most cases, to have judged Israel so they get referred
to as Judges.
The Hebrew word Shafet, translated as Judge in English Bibles, means what it sounds like,
someone who is a judge in the judicial legal sense who upholds law and order in the community.
Problem is that the title doesn't fit very well.
Unlike the Judges appointed by Moses in Exodus and Samuel as depicted in 1 Samuel, none of
the characters in Judges actually performs the duties of a judge.
As Old Testament scholar Robin Baker observes in his 2016 book, quote, none of the major
or minor Judges delivers a recorded judgment, nor with the arguable exception of Deborah
is presented in the process of judging.
Renowned scholar Martinoff also once wrote, there is no demonstrable or even plausible
meaning for the word judge, which could apply to these heroes as we know them, end quote.
Instead these characters seem to be legendary war heroes, whose exploits often come at the
opportune time to deliver Israel from its enemies.
Some of them, such as Gideon and Abimelech, are presented as political leaders as well,
while others like Samson are nothing of the kind.
Judges, a book out of time.
When exactly are the events of the book of Judges supposed to have happened?
Finally, the narrative was taken more or less at face value.
Readers assumed that it depicted the history of Bronze Age Israel after the Exodus from
Egypt and the conquest of Joshua, but before the monarchy.
However, in modern times, this view has become untenable, both on historical grounds and
biblical grounds.
On the historical side, mainstream historians and archaeologists no longer think the Israelites
were ever enslaved in Egypt or migrated as a nation to Palestine and conquered the Canaanites.
The Israelites were simply Canaanites.
They emerged from the Canaanite tribes and polities of the Bronze Age.
They produced Canaanite pottery, spoke a Canaanite language, and practiced Canaanite religion.
Historians also know quite a bit about conditions in Bronze Age Palestine thanks to the Amarna
Letters, a 14th century Egyptian archive that includes numerous letters from various local
rulers in Palestine, among them Abdi Heba, King of Jerusalem.
The situation these letters described does not resemble anything we find in Joshua or
Judges and Canaan was under Egyptian governance during that period.
The Merneptah Stili provides the earliest known historical reference to Israel near
the end of the Bronze Age.
On the year 1207 BCE, the inscription lists Israel, indicated by the hieroglyphs as a tribe
rather than a nation.
Among the peoples defeated by the Pharaoh Merneptah, this too challenges traditional biblical interpretation.
Old Testament scholar Lester Gravey observes that the inscription, quote, provides no
evidence for any sojourn in Egypt for those identified in the text as Israel.
The Israel mentioned there seems to be a people not yet settled, while the country is firmly
under Egyptian control.
The inscription does not presuppose, in Israel, anything like that depicted in Joshua or Judges.
And even just sticking with the biblical narrative, the period described in Judges covers at least
four centuries, which is far too long a time to fit between the death of Joshua and the
events of Samuel through Kings.
Simply put, there's no period of actual history that correlates to the period of the Judges.
Biblical literalists who try to fit the Judges into the biblical timeline generally resort
to having numerous Judges rule Israel concurrently, even though that is not the impression one
gets from reading the book of Judges.
Such timelines typically also ignore the many long periods of intermediate length during
which Israel slowly forgets Yahweh and falls into idolatry.
Simply put, there's no period of actual history that correlates to the period of the Judges.
Changing Perspectives in Old Testament Studies
Throughout most of Western history, the Old Testament was regarded as a unique chronicle
of historical events going back to the very creation of the world.
Archaeological excavations in the 19th century, however, revealed the rich literary traditions
of the Sumerians, Assyrians, and Babylonians, many of which had parallels in the Bible.
In 1902, a German Assyriologist named Frederick Daelich presented the revolutionary thesis
that the myths and genesis were derived from Babylonian precursors.
This triggered a fierce debate between theologians and historians of the Near East known as the
Babel Bible Controversy.
In time, however, the dependence of the primeval history and genesis on earlier Near Eastern
myths became universally accepted and for over a century, scholars have made great strides
in their understanding of the Bible by studying the histories and legends of neighboring civilizations.
In 1992, Danish Old Testament scholar Nils Peter Lemke triggered the start of a new era
in biblical scholarship when he asked if the Old Testament was a Hellenistic book.
As academia took a broader look at the dating of the Old Testament writings and their canonization,
more and more connections with the literature and myths of the Greeks were discovered.
While the Pentateuch received much of that attention early on, scholars soon turned their
gaze to other books as well, including Judges.
Still, while recent scholarship has entertained the possibility of a Hellenistic background
for parts of the Pentateuch, scholars typically consider Judges to be part of the Deuteronomistic
history.
The books of Deuteronomy, Joshua, Judges, Samuel, and Kings, which in their view dates
to the Exilic period and maintains a consistent theology about the covenant, violation, rebellion,
and apostasy that were the cause of Israel's destruction and exile under the Assyrians
and Babylonians.
The Book of Judges, A Hellenistic Invention?
Recent work by Philip Guillaume, a Bible scholar at the University of Bernay, Switzerland,
suggests that Judges was not, in fact, an original part of the Deuteronomistic history.
Guillaume believes Judges was compiled in its final form much later during the Hellenistic
period, meaning the era following the conquest of Alexander the Great, when Greek culture
and literature was widespread.
Furthermore, Guillaume has demonstrated that there is little or no awareness within the
rest of the Old Testament of an extended, quote, period of the Judges, end quote, between
Joshua's conquest and the time of Eli and Samuel, several of the Psalms that summarize
the history of Israel omit any mention of the Judges.
Guillaume 83 does mention several antagonists from Judges, but not any of the Israelite
heroes.
First, Samuel 12-11, one of the only verses to mention the pre-monarchic period, shows
familiarity with some of the names found in Judges, but not in a way that reflects the
canonical stories we now possess.
For example, it describes Samuel, rather than Samson, as the one who delivered Israel from
the Philistines, and it mentions another hero named Beden, who is unknown in Judges.
Other possible Old Testament references, which are very few in number, are either ambiguous
or show signs of later editing.
Even Eupolimus, the first Jewish chronographer who wrote in the 2nd century BCE, goes straight
from Joshua to Samuel in his summary of Israelite history.
According to Guillaume, the earliest reliable knowledge of a period of the Judges comes
from the book of Sirach, written by a Jewish sage Ben-Sira, most likely in Alexandria,
Egypt, around the year 175 BCE.
In fact, the Egyptian city of Alexandria, which was a major center of Greek culture
and influence with a significant Jewish population, might have been where the book of Judges originated.
Even if some form of the book existed prior to this, Guillaume argues that it had not yet
been adopted into the Jewish canon between Joshua and Samuel.
Within the Bible itself, we also have evidence that Judges was only inserted after Joshua
at a late date.
The final verses of Joshua vary significantly between the Hebrew Masoretic text and the
Greek Septuagint, suggesting that it was edited at a late stage to produce a better transition
to the book of Judges.
The Greek version in particular anticipates the forthcoming apostasy of the Israelites,
a constant theme in Judges, and their subjugation by Eglon of Moab, which occurs in Judges 3.
The end of Joshua in Hebrew has a more, quote, happily ever after, in quote, feel with the
Promised Land fully subdued and Israel fully committed to Yahweh and the teachings of Joshua.
Similarly, the opening chapters of Judges from chapter 1 verse 1 to chapter 3 verse 11
seem to be later additions intended to improve the transition between the events of the two
books.
Emanuel Tove, an expert on textual criticism, is of the view that Joshua and Judges began
as a single book, and the opening chapters of Judges were added after the two books were
split apart.
Giom, however, believes that these additions are better explained if Judges was an independent
work that was later adapted into and fit between Joshua and Samuel.
Perhaps the most telling sign that Judges was not part of any Deuteronomistic history
is the fact that its depiction of the conquest of Canaan is so different from that of Joshua,
while Joshua ends with the entire land conquered and divided among the tribes.
Judges opens with the land still unconquered.
Judges 3, 2, part of an insertion intended to bridge this gap, states that Yahweh allowed
the Canaanite nations to remain so that successive generations of Israelites could learn how to
fight wars, but that doesn't explain everything.
For example, why does Judges 181 say no territory had been allotted to Dan, when Joshua 1948
to 46 clearly spells out the territory allotted to Dan?
And why do Joshua and Judges disagree over whether Jerusalem was allotted to Judah or
to Benjamin?
In a 2009 paper, Dutch scholar Klaus Sprunk points out numerous correspondences between
Judges and Samuel.
In every case examined, the story found in Samuel appears to be the more original one.
This suggests that parts of Judges were written as a prequel to Samuel with a strong pro-monarchic
message.
On this basis, Sprunk also believes that Judges was composed during the Hellenistic Age.
He concludes, quote,
Somewhere in the early Hellenistic Age, Jewish scribes collected and edited the prophetic
and poetic texts and published them as rounded off, authoritative texts as the legacy of
inspired men like David and Isaiah.
They also wished to offer an authoritative version of the history of Israel from the
creation until restoration after the Babylonian exile.
In this process, the Book of Judges could very well have been their final masterpiece,
end quote.
Hesiod's Heroes
That issue, however, is not just the lateness of Judges or the widespread presence of Greek
stories and themes in the Old Testament.
The very creation of the Book of Judges established a new era in Israelite history, characterized
by legendary heroes and warlords who carried out great feats in battle, often times supernatural
in nature.
This is where Hesiod comes in.
Hesiod was an ancient Greek poet and philosopher who lived around 700 BCE, roughly contemporary
with Homer at a time when writing was first emerging in Greece.
He is most well known for theogony, a mythological account of the gods and creation and for works
and days, a long poem about labor, virtue and wisdom.
In works and days, Hesiod applies the metaphor of metals to different ages of humankind.
There was the golden age in which humans lived like gods, the silver age in which humans
had some vices but did not fight wars, the bronze age in which humans began eating meat
and fighting wars, and the iron age, which was the current age of mankind, an age of
suffering and shorter life spans.
The metallic ages probably predate Hesiod and the statue made of different metals from
Nebuchadnezzar's dream in Daniel 2 is a direct allusion to them.
The Greeks might have originally developed it from the Babylonian paradigm of primeval
ages attested in the Song of Atrahasis.
However, between the bronze age and iron age, Hesiod introduced a new age, the heroic age,
in which Zeus created a new race of heroes to counter the increasing degeneration of
humanity.
Although these heroes still fought numerous violent wars, they were said to be more just
than the warring men of the Bronze Age.
Herodotus, the famous 5th century Greek historian, adopted Hesiod's heroic age in his reconstruction
of history and placed it around 1200 BCE, which corresponds roughly to the cataclysmic end
of Mycenaean civilization.
According to Herodotus, the heroes of that age were greater than contemporary men and
sometimes had unusual and fabulous powers.
Hesiod's poems were part of the curriculum for those learning to write Greek in the Hellenistic
Age, and he was known to Jewish writers such as Josephus and the author of the Jewish Sibylene
Oracles.
In 2014, Old Testament scholar Philip Guillaume proposed that Hesiod's age of heroes served
as a model for the period of the judges, an age that was indeterminate in its original
form, a story of ancient heroes and saviors floating somewhere between the primeval past
and Israel's post-monarchic present and like Hesiod's heroes, who took on greater moral
responsibility than the men before and after them.
The heroes of judges also faced unique moral challenges with serious consequences.
Samson, whose unparalleled strength was defeated by the wiles of a woman, and Jephthah, who
sacrificed his own daughter for the salvation of Israel, are but two examples.
For a Hellenistic Jewish audience, the heroes of judges could be appreciated as both role
models and cautionary tales, much like Hesiod's heroes.
There's no way to know for certain if and to what extent the writers who compiled, composed,
and edited the diverse stories found in judges were influenced by Hesiod and Herodotus.
However, with the exception of Othnil, the only Judahite judge who seems to have been
a separate addition to the book of judges, every hero of judges has significant parallels
with older Greek tales, suggesting the potential cultural and literary connections with Hesiod's
heroic age and Hellenistic mythology in general should be taken seriously.
The Ending of Judges
In the works of Hesiod and Herodotus, the heroic age ends with the Trojan War.
According to Herodotus, that war was the culmination of a series of abductions of women.
First the Phoenicians kidnapped the Greek priestess Io, next the Greeks kidnapped Europa, daughter
of the Phoenician king, and Medea, daughter of the king of Colchis.
A generation later, Paris, the son of Trojan king Priam, knowing that these previous kidnappings
had gone unpunished, decided to kidnap a wife of his own.
His abduction of Hellen became the trigger for the bloody Trojan War.
The period of the judges ends in remarkably similar fashion, with violence and kidnapping
involving women.
In Judges 19, a Levite concubine is raped and murdered by some Benjamites.
This provokes a bloody war between Benjamin and the other tribes that nearly exterminates
the Benjamites, but also wipes out huge numbers of Israelites.
The 600 Benjaminite survivors are left with no women to marry, and the Israelites refuse
their request for wives.
Out of pity, however, the Israelites attacked the city of Jabeth Gilead and kidnapped 400
women for the Benjaminite men.
The Benjamites then kidnapped a further 200 female dancers from a festival at Shiloh to
make up the remaining shortfall.
There are also notable parallels between the kidnapping at Shiloh and the rape of the Sabine
women, recorded by Plutarch and Livy.
That myth tells how the men of early Rome lacked women to marry, so they sent out an
embassy to other cities asking for women, much like the pleas of the Benjamites for
wives.
The request of the Romans is rebuffed, so they wait for a religious festival, which,
much like the Shiloh festival, brings numerous virgin girls to the city.
Then they descend on the festival and quickly snatch up girls to keep his wives.
It cannot be proven, of course, but the author of Judges modeled the end of his narrative
after the Trojan War and similar classical myths.
But those stories and Judges do seem to be drenched in the same mythological themes.
The Mythical Heroes of Judges
The Heroes of Judges also seem to be based on Greek myths and legends to a greater extent
than most other parts of the Hebrew Bible.
While not proof of a connection between Judges and Hesiod's heroic age, the presence of
such elements is consistent with what we would expect if Judges had been written with a similar
purpose in mind, Shamgar.
Let's start with the most obscure hero and Judges, a man named Shamgar.
He's mentioned in only two verses.
After Ahud came Shamgar, son of Anat, who killed 600 of the Philistines with an ox-goad.
He too delivered Israel.
In the days of Shamgar, son of Anat, in the days of J.L., caravans ceased and travelers
kept too by the byways.
These two scant verses provide a surprising amount of information.
First, Shamgar is the son of Anat, who was well known as a Canaanite war goddess.
Although scholars have searched for other interpretations, the general view is that
this means just what it sounds like.
In an often cited paper, the late Dutch scholar Edrianus van Selmes wrote, quote,
In all texts where the name Anat occurs, Egyptian, Ugaritic, or Aramaic, it refers to the great
goddess.
Even the place names in the Old Testament are to be explained as originally denoting
sanctuaries of this deity.
Let us assume that the general rule also applies in this case, and therefore that Shamgar
is indeed the son of the goddess Anat, end quote.
It was quite common for a hero of the Greek heroic age to have a god or goddess as a parent.
In the Bible, it is not so common, so Shamgar was apparently an extraordinary warrior.
Classicist Bruce Loudon also argues for this interpretation, noting that some of the heroes
who fought at Troy were also the sons of gods.
Memnon, the son of the goddess Eos and human prince Tithonus of Troy, is perhaps a relevant
example.
And Anat, being a war goddess to the Egyptians, is a suitable deity to be associated with
a war hero.
Furthermore, we know from the elephantine papyri that the ancient Israelites were among the
nations who venerated Anat.
Greek myths of semi-divine heroes bring to mind the gibbarine.
The Hebrew Bible's term for warriors of old, men of renown, who in Genesis 6 were also
the offspring of divine beings and human women.
This ties into the age of heroes myth, because the story in Genesis 6, 1-4, is remarkably
similar to the story told in catalog of women, another ancient work often attributed to Hesiod.
Log of women explains how the mating of gods and human women prompted Zeus to instigate
the Trojan War, ending of the heroic age and destroying the demigods.
Interestingly, the name Shamgar, an awesome name to be sure, is not a Hebrew name.
Most commentators believe it is a theophoric Hurrian name, meaning Shemig has given.
Shemig was the Hurrian sun god whose veneration extended beyond Anatolia to the Phoenician
coast and western Syria, and the Hurrian name Shemigar is well-attested.
It appears then that the Book of Judges not only contains motifs from Greek historiography,
but also heroes with non-Israelite origins.
Now Shamgar is remembered by the Book of Judges for one thing, single-handedly killing 600
Philistines with a makeshift weapon, an ox-code.
This tale is obviously an exaggeration, even if there is any history at all behind the
legend of Shamgar.
However, it is one of several feats in Judges and Samuel that fit the pattern of an Aristia.
What is an Aristia, you might ask?
In Greek historiography and the Iliad in particular, the term Aristia is used to describe a hero's
single greatest accomplishment, during which he, inspired by a god, slays a great number
of the enemy, often in order to deliver the hero's people from danger.
Classicist Bruce Loudon, whose specialty is the Homeric epics, believes that many of the
stories in Joshua and Judges are deliberately organized around such Aristias.
The most common form of the Aristia in Greek literature is the dual, whereas the Bible
more commonly features an exploit of one hero against many, with David and Goliath the notable
exception.
For example, the spirit of Yahweh comes upon Othnil, who then defeats King Cushion Risteum,
Judges 310, and upon Jephthah, who defeats the Ammonites, Judges 11, 29-31.
The spirit of Yahweh also rushes upon Samson when he kills the lion, Judges 146, and again
when he kills 1000 Philistines, Judges 15, 14-15.
David's gibberine, there's that word again, are renowned for simple triumphs.
Shama defeats an entire army of Philistines on his own through the power of Yahweh.
2 Samuel 23, 11-12.
Jashebim slays 800 men at one time.
2 Samuel 23, 8.
1 Chronicles 11, 11.
Abishai kills 300 at once, 2 Samuel 23, 18.
Shamgar's feet of killing 600 Philistines seems to fit the same mold.
Often, in an Aristia, the hero's weapon is unique in some way.
In most biblical examples, the hero's weapon is also given special mention.
Shamgar's ox-goed, a spear-like weapon.
Samson's donkey jaw, Jashebim's and Abishai's spears.
David's sling, and so on.
Samson
Samson is another hero of Judges with remarkable parallels to the character of Heracles, or
Hercules, from Greek mythology.
Both characters, of course, were primarily renowned for their superhuman strength.
However, the similarities go well beyond mere strength.
Like many Greek cultural heroes, Hercules was considered to be a demigod, with the human
woman Alcomenie as his mother and Zeus himself as his father.
Divinity might not seem applicable here, but the text of Judges actually hints at divine
parentage for Samson as well.
In Judges 13, the barren wife of Manoa, the Dayknight, has two encounters alone with the
Angel of Yahweh, whom she thinks is simply a man at first.
Quote,
The woman came and told her husband.
A man of God came to me, and his appearance was like an angel of God, most awe-inspiring.
I did not ask him where he came from, and he did not tell me his name, Judges 13.6.
And the angel of God came to the woman again.
She was sitting in the field, and her husband Manoa was not with her.
Judges 13.9, end quote.
The angel tells her she is pregnant and will have a son, and gives special instructions
regarding the boy's upbringing.
Sure enough, all happens as the angel predicted.
Many scholars believe there is a subtext of divine involvement in the birth, namely that
the child is the offspring of the angel, or even of Yahweh himself.
Zakovic and Shinen, in their well-known book on the suppression of mythological themes in the
Bible, note that the angel is said to come to Samson's mother, using an expression that sometimes
alludes to sex in the Bible.
Furthermore, there is no positive statement in Judges that Samson was the natural son
of Manoa, or that his parents had relations before his conception.
Whether Samson was originally understood to be a semi-divine figure is an open question,
but the possibility is intriguing.
The Samson Heracles similarities don't end there.
Samson's first heroic deed in Judges 14 is the slaying of a lion with his bare hands.
The first feat of Heracles, one of his famous 12 labors, was also to slay a lion bare-handed.
Another connection with Greek myth can be found in the puzzling appearance of a beehive
in the lion's carcass left by Samson.
This time, it concerns Aristius, the first keeper of bees.
As the legend goes, Aristius's bees began to die as divine punishment for his accidental
role in the death of Eurydice.
Eurydice, another famous mythological character, had been bitten by a poisonous snake while
Aristius was chasing her.
In order to get his bees back, Aristius had to sacrifice 12 animals to the gods and leave
their carcasses at the site of the sacrifice.
Returning three days later, he found the carcasses full of bees, which he took back to his apiary.
This odd story makes more sense than you might think if you are an ancient Greek, that is.
According to Philip Vagenbaum, honey was considered to be a divine food in ancient Greece,
similar to nectar and ambrosia, because it had already been cooked in the stomachs of
bees and could not rot.
The process of rotting, on the other hand, could be understood as nature's way of cooking meat.
Thus, there was a logical connection in Greek thought between rotten meat and honey.
What's also remarkable is that the 9th Penteon Ode by Pindar, a Greek poet from the 5th century BCE,
associates Aristius with Heracles.
Mixing these two myths would provide all the elements of Samson's lion carcass of bees.
It's also worth noting that Aristius' mother, Cyrene, was famous for killing a lion single-handedly,
perhaps just coincidence, but it's another example of a Greek hero who kills a lion.
This time connected to Samson via the bee story.
The miraculous spring from which Samson also had a parallel in the Heracles legend,
and it's possible, 12 labors of Heracles, an allusion to the zodiac and the solar year,
are echoed in Samson's name, which means, quote, little son, end quote.
Like Heracles, Samson was a great lover, and also like Heracles, Samson was captured by foreigners
and then slew his captors during their own religious celebrations.
Heracles' descent from Denea even recalls Samson's descent from Dan,
a migratory tribe that appears to have its own connections with Greek legend.
Even the early Christians equated Samson with Heracles in catacomb art.
At the very least, if Samson is not directly based on Heracles, the two characters appear
to come from a shared cultural sphere that was heavily Greek influenced.
We have other evidence that writers of the Hellenistic era sought to incorporate
legendary Greek characters into biblical stories.
One Jewish or Samaritan author from around the second century BCE, named Cleodemus,
claimed that two of Abraham's sons accompanied Heracles in his expedition against Libya
and Anteus. According to the same legend, one of Abraham's granddaughters is supposed to have
married Heracles himself. Gideon
After Samson, the most famous hero of judges might be Gideon, or Jerabael, as he is also called.
He is most famous for a feat in which he and 300 hand-picked men defeated the entire Midianite
army of 120,000 warriors and saved Israel as a result.
There is a very good Greek parallel to Gideon in the tale of Leonidas,
king of Sparta, who fought the Persian army at Thermopylae with just 300 warriors.
A story well known in modern pop culture thanks to the movie 300.
The nighttime attack of the Spartans, as told by Diodorus Sicilus, is very similar to the
nighttime attack of Gideon in Judges 7. In both cases, the enemy is taken by surprise
and is so terrified that they attack and slaughter each other in the chaos.
This is not the only connection between Leonidas and the Bible, incidentally.
During the Hellenistic period, some Jews believed that the Israelites and Spartans were both
descended from Abraham. It was also said by Herodotus that Leonidas, Gideon of Sparta,
was a descendant of Heracles. Perhaps this is connected to the aforementioned legend that
Heracles married Abraham's granddaughter. At any rate, the link between Israel and Sparta is
mentioned both 1st Maccabees XII and 2nd Maccabees VIX and in Josephus' antiquities XII, 225-27.
In 2nd Maccabees, we are told that the Jewish High Priest, Jason, fled to Sparta in 168 BCE
in the hopes that his shared heritage with the Spartans would cause them to give him refuge.
And according to 1st Maccabees, the 3rd century Spartan king Arius established a pack of friendship
with the Hasmonean Jewish monarchy on account of their shared descent from Abraham. If the belief,
however, false of a familial connection between Israel and Sparta went back far enough, it's
not entirely surprising that legends about Sparta's most famous king would be echoed in the tales of
some of Israel's greatest legends. Conclusion
The examples just given are not comprehensive. Many more direct and indirect parallels and
connections between the Bible and Greek myth and historiography can be shown.
Some are more convincing than others. Some are so strong, however, that it's difficult to deny
Greek influence on the later portions of the Old Testament. As Robert Carl Neuse puts it in his
book, Hellenism and the Primary History, quote, Overall, the sheer magnitude of the examples
commands our attention. One cannot simply dismiss all of these examples as sheer coincidences,
nor can one casually say that such stories are common in folklore around the world.
The number of the parallels preclude the possibility of coincidence, and one cannot find
parallels in other literatures for all these parallel examples found in Greek and biblical
literature, end quote. Historian Emmanuel Pho agrees that the Greek influence was a decisive
factor in shaping many of the stories of the Pentateuch and Deuteronomistic history. He believes
that the final arrangement of the Greek inspired narratives in the Bible was carried out in Hasmonean
Jerusalem by the Judean priest kings of the second century, whose intent was to centralize
religious and secular power in Jerusalem. Thus, we end up with a fascinating collection of stories
inspired by the Greek gods and heroes of old inserted into a setting with a theological
viewpoint that is so thoroughly Jewish and foreign to the Greek world, that of a Jewish
nation with ancient Near Eastern roots attempting to reassert and reinvent itself after the Babylonian
exile. I hope you've enjoyed this documentary. Please subscribe to the Inquisitive Bible Reader.
The creator of that channel is Paul Davidson, who wrote this script today. Myth Vision and Paul
have a lot in common, and we love diving into this further. If you appreciate this content,
subscribe over on his channel and check out more links. Go show him that Myth Vision has
sent you to show him some love for all the work he's produced here. You can also help support
Myth Vision by joining our Patreon, becoming a YouTube member. Drop a comment down below,
let us know what really got you excited. Are there any parts of this documentary
that really made you think and go, wow, I have a lot more to learn. I feel that way as I create
these documentaries, I'm sure that Paul from Inquisitive Bible Reader feels the same way as
we study and produce these videos. Please help support us in our endeavor to keep bringing you
history, wisdom, legend, myth, and uncovering the realities of the ancient books, especially the
Bible. Thanks so much and never forget, we are Myth Vision.
