We are myth vision. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome back to myth vision podcast. I'm going to tell you
about the deceit that the Church of Scientology has, I guess, been doing to many people, especially in
America who claim to be Christians and are coming to this idea of like, oh, I can be a Scientologist
and a Christian at the same time. Today, I have Karen Dela Carrier joining us and Karen is going
to explain to us how they use these tactics of bring your Buddhism, bring your Christianity,
bring your whatever, but specifically Christianity. They have a cross and they really like to say,
oh, no, no, you can be a Christian and a Scientologist. So take us into this. Where do we begin?
First of all, it's baloney that you can be another religion and a Scientologist.
Maybe you could do some lower level little intro courses, but you would never, ever be allowed to
do the upper levels is where you learn that you're not a single entity that your
multiples or jam together. You've got all these hundreds of body things. You would never be allowed
anywhere near that. And if you keep on with your, you have to get permission to go to a wedding
in a Baptist church. You've got to write to the authority to ask if you could go to a funeral
if it's an Episcopalian. Oh, no, Scientology does not that you say a cross.
You know, they use these words ecclesiastical religion in every press release, they try to
give a religious image. Now, you know, the IRS said they could not get tax exemption unless they
were completely a unique religion, not Christianity merged in with Scientology. You've got to have
certain parameters. What I want to start off with is telling you how Scientology is
a reverse engineered religion. What does that mean to you, Derek? Reverse engineered? Reverse
engineered. I mean, well, if you asked me what reverse engineering is, is taking something that's
already something and figuring out how it was made. So you're kind of, I guess you'd say,
if you're saying Scientology is a reverse engineered and correct me if I'm wrong,
I'm literally guessing here, they're taking what already are religions and trying to mimic them
in some way, but they're really not themselves. These religions, I guess you're trying to get
out, right? They hired scholars, religious scholars, and there are religious scholars that
praise them. But then you find out they got a quarter of a million dollars to write from paper
saying they tried to take away the word cult and call it new age religion. The newer, the newer
religions, they try to use the word new. A reverse engineered religion is Scientology found out from
these religious scholars. What are the basic elements to make a religion a religion? For example,
it needs to have a moral code like the 10 commandments. So Scientology quickly put out
way to happiness, their precepts. It needs Sunday services. So Scientology invented this mogus
Sunday service. Sunday service is somebody standing up reading an Elron Hubbard issue or two.
Look, Scientology has no deity, no worship, no God, no higher supreme being to call on or look
to. Now, you're atheist. So you agree, you can agree with a lot of that, right? There is nothing.
I definitely don't think there is a God, but that's definitely looking into Scientology and
knowing a few things they teach. I'm like, you guys are not what I would think of. The reason
I'm an atheist is more the lack of evidence for things, right? It sounds like they're not
approaching it that way. They're approaching it with all these other superstitions that are
really, really out there, in my opinion. The body patents and the exorcism. So lower level
Scientology is more just a life coaching kind of Tony Robbins kind of life coaching.
It's not religious at all. There's nothing religious about it at all. So to gulp themselves
as a religion is a program from the hierarchy. If you look at the phrase success in numbers,
well, they want, they want to be super. They want the evangelical movements to go,
we're one of you. We're like you. If they come after us today, they'll come after you tomorrow.
So let's band together and Scientology puts on religious conferences, expensive ones where they
fly in important religious people from different, they pay everything, airfare, hotel, and people
are invited to this grand conference to mull around. And the reason is befriend us, we're your friend.
And when we're in tough litigation, write a nice letter to the judge as an amicus brief.
You know how big entities can write to the judge to influence the judge.
You can send any letter to the judge. But I've gotten off the subject of reverse engineering.
They found the basic elements that they must have to qualify as a religion.
And then they custom designed Scientology to fit in with what a religion is expected to have.
A moral code, Sunday services, confession, just the basic camaraderie within
special services for. They've even got their own christening ceremony for babies because
these were just reverse engineered must haves to qualify as a religion.
Right. And that's how they are able to be tax free and to have a legal way in keeping the
government from getting involved. I think the Russians were smart in absolutely banning them
from Russia. Like they're not even allowed in Russia. Even there was a Jesus cult where a guy
claims to be Jesus. He got arrested. So I think Russia is like, yeah, these ridiculous
out there religions or they claim to be religions. No, that ain't happening. I wonder if that's what
they haven't read into, but I wonder if that's what they were thinking. But you see, here's the con.
This is the con. When you walk in the door, they're not honest with you. They're not upfront.
They're very invasive. If somebody says, do you believe in God or is there a God?
They go, oh, that's, that's up a little secrets. You gotta do this up a little.
They're not upfront in saying, ultimately, we believe you are God. I am God. All of this is a
creation of ours. We locked it up. We created it. That's the core belief of Scientology.
And why people keep giving them money is they're buying their God ship stage by stage by stage.
The voice of Bart, the, you know, Bart Simpson,
Lenny Cartwright is the voice of Bart. And she really explicitly said, Scientology,
she did a video, maybe she wasn't PR trained to hide their secrets. And she went, I'm just buying
my Godhood. I'm doing the different steps so I can be God, become a God, which is exactly what.
Now, she was $200,000 deep, right? At least or
Oh, she gave them $10 million, $10 million. Even though her fiance was money extorted to
the bone and threw himself off a very high bridge in the Bay Area, California and killed
himself. Even though this man she loved dearly killed himself after he went bankrupt,
when Scientology gouged him for all his net, she still gave another few million.
I think she's up to $15 million and counting in donations. So by telling these evangelicals,
we're like you, we're brothers, we're a religion, your religion, let's all band together. No,
these evangelicals don't know Scientology. Ultimately, Christ to make you realize
you are God. You are God, Dennis. I am God. Everyone is a God. I know there are loose
statements like God is in you, which yeah, yeah, yeah, but they take that and they're running with
it and they're making. So this, this is weird. It's kind of a weird blend of Mormonism and
evangelicalism in a strange way because Mormons actually believe the men will actually become
gods of their own planets, but it's a weird blend. I'd like to say this though. You mentioned
something about abortion and I feel like we might as well go all the way with everything you sent
me in this email just to go and dig deep into the whole con of this thing and how they were
treating women. I say this upfront, women who, you know, it's their body and what they do with it
is their choice. But what we're about to describe, I think, isn't their choice. These are mandated.
And can you imagine being told by an employer or someone, you have to go and get rid of this child?
And I figure if it's okay, I could read you something.
I just want to say just as a prefix, we are not, for our audience, pro-life, anti-life. We're not,
we're not in those camps at all. We're not saying this because we believe that we should be pro-life
or anti-life. We are just exposing coerced and forced abortions by church hierarchy.
It's the complete opposite of, Mormonism wants you to have 20 children every year,
so there'll be a new generation of, they want you to have babies and babies and
multiple wives and you have 50 children, 60 children. Scientology wants to maybe slaughter
every time you get pregnant. Is there a reverse? That's crazy. Yeah, that's definitely over the top.
And I do want to say, I mean, I am for women's choice, you know, but the point is this is irrelevant
to that is what you're trying to say. This is not a matter of pro-life, anti-life, whatever.
The point is they're mandating. This is a forced abortion. And can you imagine, I mean, someone
who's like, well, I'm pro-life. If your husband forced you every time, I mean, it is your body
or the man that got you pregnant enforces you to have that abortion or whatever, you know, like
that's, well, I thought it was my body. So I'd like to read a statement from plan to parenthood,
if you don't mind. Yes, please. In 1977, in response to the high volume of Scientology staff
sent to have abortions, the head of Planned Parenthood in Riverside, California, Janet
Han Alex said, I just felt that it was strange that they would all make the same decision
independent of their individual circumstances. They had all made the decision to have an abortion,
no matter how old they were, or how many children they already had. We found that almost unbelievable.
And when we started asking more questions in order to find out their individual motives,
because we were suspicious, they stopped coming to us altogether.
But they found them out to other, they would, this particular Planned Parenthood was,
can you imagine, Planned Parenthood was thinking this is too much. Planned Parenthood, who's
to tell the pregnancies, even they were aghast because every day buses, huge buses of pregnant
women, every Friday or every Thursday, were sent to, these young girls ordered to have
their abortions, ordered, ordered. And you know what, Derek? When these girls finally left Scientology,
some of them went back to their Catholic roots, and they told their priests, and the priests told
the bishops, and the bishops told the Vatican, all of this data of the Vatican is a fatigued against
kind of, you know my coerced emotions. And the Vatican did a pronouncement that Scientology is a
demonic cult, or a demonic, they use the word demonic, because they believe when you kill life
and slaughter life, you're forced and coerced to, that's not religious. The Vatican used the word
demonic. You know, they're not wrong in that description. They're really not. I mean, this is,
this is seriously high control. And I, you know, I have to admit, I mean, there's the same problem
in many other groups, including if you look into the history of the Catholic Church, there's some
stuff bad back then, but it's almost like they're trying to learn from their mistakes. You see,
Scientology is way behind the learning curve, and I don't know if it's even
something that can be fixed. I think this thing's rotten to the root, just like John Knox used to
say about the Catholic Church, but he was a Protestant. But the point is, I think this really is,
I don't see reform being possible with this. How about putting his words in atomic iron brand,
and has all you found alter and changing? You know, I was going to say something that, you know,
that they're forcing these women to be, to go through, this is like really dark. I mean, you
don't have to take a position on either way, how you view abortions in general, forced, mandated,
abortion, that's not even a religion at this point. I mean, can you imagine a religion demanding
you to kill your child, right? Like to do these things like this is normal. I can't imagine it,
but we're talking about ancient like Mayan child sacrifice type, weird, really old. This is like
kind of a modern day, you know, child sacrifice actually happening here, for the sake of the
religion or the the organization. I do want to talk about the OT stuff here. You sent me this
one small thing. Yeah, glad you got that. Just one final thing. The why
to kill off pregnant, you know, fetuses and stuff is Scientology does it for greed.
We can't have staff taking family time and being they need to work for the cult. They don't call
themselves a cult, but the whole thing is done because of corporate need for you to work around
the clock, not have kids, not have family time, not be a mom, not be a dad. So the why you can't have
babies is you need to work for Scientology and its survival 24, 7, 365. We can't have you taking
maternity leave and so I just wanted you to know why they order. Can you imagine they do that just
out of corporate greed? That, you know, that really does blow my mind because if they wanted to be a
successful organization, if I can call it that to be kind, you would want to multiply. You would
want your your people to have more people so that they can become Scientologists and you have more
people who descend from those people who then pass it on and keep on sharing the Scientology
message doesn't seem like these guys are thinking they're thinking right now more money right now.
We need to keep Bob at work. We need Sally here like, you know, not even considering that reproducing
is a why do you think Islam is the fastest growing religion in the world? I mean, they are
multiplying and they have up to four wives they can have. So I mean, that's a whole different
thing. I'm just making a point. It's a good point. I would be a grandma today, but my daughter-in-law
who married my son who died, she was forced, forced to abort and she just it just crippled her
emotionally. And of course, after that, soon after that, she even left. She and you know,
there's an emotional trauma where you don't want to lose a baby and you're forced to abort so that
that baby can't be born. Anyway, I was gonna say about this. Christians don't know that they think
you are God. I want to preface that with that with the technology I brought up because there's
some really interesting points in which why you had me pop this up on the screen for people to see,
but you don't know that you're really God according to Scientology.
Can you pay as you go religion? The only reason you can continue is money,
but you're not going to have the awareness. Now, any religious scholars or any people of any faith
watching this, please know Scientology is not your brother or cousin or even distant relative
in religion. First of all, there is no God, there is no higher authority, there is theirs. And how
would mutt Christianity? Every man is then shown to have been crucified, so don't think that it's
an accident that the crucifixion they found out that this applied somebody somewhere on this planet
back about 600 BC found some pieces of our faiths and I don't know how they found it,
either by watching Mad Men or something, but since that time they abused it and it became
what is known as Christianity. The man on the cross, there was no Christ, but the man on the cross
is shown as every man. So of course, each person seeing a crucified man has an immediate
feeling of sympathy for this man that we get many PCs who says they're Christ.
Now, there's two reasons for that one is the Roman Empire was prone to crucify people.
So a person can have been crucified, but in our six, he is shown as crucified.
I'll send you a little bit. Did I send you the video where Howard and his own person?
There was no Christ. This was some psychiatric implant. Maybe you could just
I've got in his own voice, Howard mocking Christianity. And he says,
let him, I'll just send that to you, Derek. You might want to just put a little blurb in the
no problem. So Scientology is not a cousin to Christianity, even evangelicals and all the
other religions. First, Scientology says, you are God. Second, Scientology aborts babies wholesale.
That's not very Christian or whatever fate you're in. Now, we're moving on to number three.
Derek showed a picture. Yeah, this is a very interesting technology you sent me.
And you mentioned in the email that you can snap your fingers. If you pay enough money
and become a high enough OT, you can snap your fingers and create a planet or a universe. I mean
galaxies, whatever. The wishful thinking is just unbelievable. Yeah. Well, there was a pronouncement
Howard's made when your OT snapped your fingers and boom, a nebula and galaxy can appear. This is
the kind of Wow. What is this though? What is this? There is a procedure that they sell called
superpower. And it's in this extension building they have where you showed the cross that building.
Yeah, this one right here. In that building, they deliver something called superpower.
Super power use millions of dollars in R and D research and discovery to build these space age
machines. And you go through, for example, you'll be spun around high speed upside down. And it's
got to tune you into vertical. You've got to sense what is not southeast west after you've been jiggled
around like you're in a washing machine. What's religious about that? Another procedure would be
you've got to heighten your sense of taste. So blindfolded, you'll be given lemon, lime,
peppermint and you've got to know the difference between peppermint and lime.
And it gets weirder and weirder. They're all these different machines
which they spent, they went to NASA and they got some data of what their astronauts have to go
through and then they built a reverse engineered a machine. And so for $25,000,
you can go through all these funky, I've got more pictures for you, these different machines. Now,
answer me, Derek, how is that religious? How does it make you kinder, more benign,
more thoughtful to fellow man? Does telling the difference between mango and banana in taste
and smell, is that going to make you more spiritual, more Christian, more religious, more thought,
never mind the Christian words. What about making you
more charitable, more willing to just help fellow man? All you did was
do some space, ridiculous stuffs to make you throw up and do all these smell and test things.
And this is the opening sequence of what they call super power.
Yeah, I don't know. It's religious about it. I can't put my finger on it. So Derek, every month
there's some new huge con artist being featured by Tony Ortega on the Tony Ortega blog or some
huge new indictment by federal authorities of a Scientologist who had his three L's,
who had super power, who ordered counseled his body patents. For years he exercised himself
and now he's this crook ripping off Medicaid for $75 million or ripping off investors. Every month
there's some new scoundrel, a rogue, a thief being indicted and towed away in handcuffs
after years of Scientology enlightenment. Yeah, because they're so much more enlightened,
you know. No, I mean, that is weird doing all those things. I don't know what they're doing
them for. It doesn't sound like anything that I'm aware of. I do know that religions do like to
tap into the senses. This is a way in which they indoctrinate you. Why do you think frankincense,
for example, plays a huge role in church? And I'm not saying anything bad by it. I'm not knocking it.
The visuals, when you go into a cathedral, you're in awe. You're looking up to something more
majestic, right? So I wonder if, like you said, they're reverse engineering knowing psychologically
because it's not like L. Ron Hubbard didn't know what psychology taught. He just tried to create
his own little empire of a new psychological approach and they gave him the no. I'm pretty
sure peer review probably saw him and said, no, this is not good. And this is not scientific.
And he's like, what? No, but he knows a lot of this stuff. So he and people who are following him
potentially, I'm just being hypothesizing here, that they're tapping into smell, taste, sight,
hearing and touch. And they're doing all of this in some kooky way to try and get you involved
into it like other religions have. So the reverse engineering.
Derek, the inside of I sent you a couple of pictures. It's spectacular. It's overwhelming.
Like this here? Yeah. There are many copies of the corridors in the machine zone. And it's,
wow, you know, it's overpowering. But what does it do? How does it make you?
I don't know. Have you ever been in any of it or is this stuff that came after your time?
They, well, do you know that they kept promising how this would change the world?
Superpower would change the world. And they just needed your donation for this building
and the equipment. And they got, they raised $200 million for one building. I mean,
this is a building in Clearwater. It's not a New York, Manhattan, though,
you know, Beverly Hills, Los Angeles. They got $200 million for a Clearwater building.
And they kept on and on. And because people were giving money, they thought,
Superpower, even the name, I want Superpower. Well, that might be why they're doing it.
For 20 years, it was a money extortion record. And then a guy called Lewis Garcia departed.
And very public, he was OTA. He went as high as they went. And he said,
they have, they asked me for $40,000 for the cross. They said, Lewis, this is going to be your
monument. You will die. And he said, $40,000 for a cross. And they said, you should be honored
where ask the mounting of it and this and that. Guess what? Lewis Garcia gave them $40,000.
And then he found out 60 other people paid $40,000 for the same cross.
Oh, they're good. They're good.
They were paid for the cross. They are slick. Holy moly. That's wild.
And when Lewis found that out, he got so furious that he sued them for non-delivering Superpower,
although he had paid thousands and thousands for. So then after the Lewis Garcia lawsuit,
they thought we've strung them along for 20 years, promising Superpower. Meanwhile,
the money was being raped in 200 million for a building. And then after the Lewis Garcia lawsuit,
they then opened the doors for Superpower. So all of this stuff technically is a bunch of nonsense.
Like they're just technically putting a front up that looks good to try and make, hey,
this is where your money went, just so you know. And it has powers. You just can't see them. And
they're there. It's nonsense. It's pretty much. They're trying to get the wide, wide benefits
of the First Amendment. If they only admitted, this may be new age, this may be funky, this may be
some kind of life coaching to increase your perception, but they're getting religious
tax exemption for this. There's nothing religious about smelling the block between your toes and
a tomato. There's nothing religious to it. Oh, you are wonderful. You know, this is great. I mean,
that's why I said I feel like your reversed engineering thing fits this as well. And it's
all those connections because the five senses are absolutely used throughout all ancient
religions. This is known. So these people, like you said, probably hired experts and realized
it's got to be something that we can say it does something. Here, taste this lemon, taste that lime,
taste this peppermint. Oh, the reason we're doing that is because the Thaetans and whatever,
some BS, they might feed people and they are convinced of their myth, if I can use the term,
that they've created and people are buying it. I mean, you literally can give people
just off of the placebo effect, something here. And this this seems to be like that, like,
hey, come get on this little thing on the right side and we'll spin you around. And the Thaetans
will actually start flinging out of your body. You won't even realize it. You'll start to level.
I mean, I'm already making crap up as I'm speaking about it, right? And, you know,
like they're coming out of your body quicker. I mean, like, couldn't that convince you if you
were stuck? And it was like a priest, if you will, someone that you as an authority in the
Scientology Church, like it would convince somebody, I feel. But you know, some Russian or
Ukrainian woman came and had all this and all. And then she went back and she just
crashed and burned in her business. And she sued them. You know, the reverse of what you
promised will happen. I'm not super powerful. I'm superly in the shun can quickly settle with.
I didn't want a lot of noise and publicity of that. I'll tell you, Derek, someone will go do
superpower, take off their clothes, like Lisa MacPherson, right after superpower and walk naked
down for Harrison. And that will blow up the fantasy public relations nonsense on superpower.
There's, you know, sooner or later, someone will have a mental breakdown. You wait. You wait.
Anyway, I like this little segment. I like this little segment because
myth is a key word. It's a key word. You're exposing the propaganda, the lies, the propaganda,
the fakes and Scientology is the post child for absolute lies. The lies that they tell
at the same time, they want you to feel they are religious.
Ladies and gentlemen, Karen De La Carrier. She is here. We are the myth busters, if you will. We come
to literally expose all the nonsense that you find within Scientology. And we've only scratched the
surface. I mean, there's so many more stories that literally she could have gone into three other
stories or more of deaths that have occurred under the watch of them, the way that they treat people,
they're way behind the learning curve, all because their profit, if I can use the term,
L Ron Hubbard, their master who had all the answers set in stone in writing, technically,
how they're going to go about doing everything that they do. How do you wipe your butt? Oh,
use your left hand. Okay, using my left hand. Everything is told by him and you have to follow
that. And this whole episode, it makes me think how clever they are. I mean, from the outside,
this looks stupid. I'm going to be honest. It literally, for someone who's never in it,
but someone who's never been like a certain other religion might look at it and go,
that looks stupid, right? So, but if you were buying into it, you had L Ron Hubbard sticks in
your hands and you thought, I'm going to achieve OT eight, I'm going to become super power. I'm a
God. You know, you, you might be convinced, you know, you just might literally anything else you'd
like to say Karen, save people half a million dollars. You just, you've saved people's bank
accounts. This one episode, if you watch it, listen to something you may have saved some people going
in who sort of wanted a child. You're never going to have a child in the seal. You're going to be
forced to abort. So listen to Derek, listen to this channel. You know, I always say, don't drink
the Kool-Aid, but in this case, don't taste the lemon. Don't touch the lime and don't even sniff
the mint because you go down that path. You're screwed. Okay. I'm just saying. Seriously, I love
you. Thank you so much, Karen. I always look forward to these. These are super fun and there's
so many more topics that we can get into. Let us know what you'd be interested in hearing about
because I'm pretty sure Karen knows a story or two. She's been around for a long time. So comment
down in the description, in the comment section. I really want to hear your feedback about not only
this episode. Be kind, please. If not, you know, mama said, if it ain't nice, don't say it, you
know, but if you have something that you'd be interested in hearing that you think you've heard
about when it comes to Scientology, I can always pitch it to Karen. We're going to be paying attention
to your comments. We'd be happy to do an episode to discuss that topic if it's something that is
obviously worth talking about. And you might know a lot about it, Karen. So thank you.
Yeah. Yeah. Okay, guys, can you please
contribute to the channel? Do a one-time donation via Patreon? Just keep it alive.
Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Karen. And thank you all for those of you
who support us here at MythVision. It's what we do. We show you the myths and then you have to
make your mind up on whether you want to remain in cognitive dissonance or if you're ready to step
out and be free. Thank you. We are MythVision. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope you enjoyed that show.
I have hundreds of other ones on the Patreon, letting you guys know you can help us continue
doing what we're doing at MythVision podcast. Also, you can have questions asked the academics that
I research with and I interview. Your question can be asked in a 1080p high-quality video that
might end up on YouTube. Like I said, ladies and gentlemen, I want to expose the cults, show these
superstitions for what they are, and the errors within these texts and all of these religions
to help people realize they're all man-made and that we have what it takes. All we need to do is
pull together. Let me tell you something. The religious world has the financial backing that
those skeptics, such as myself, don't have. So if you want to help and be a participant, you can
for a little bit a month. It's not much. If you want to go more, you can. But like I said,
this is how I can keep the lights on for MythVision.
