If you want to help MythVision podcast grow, you can join our Patreon, our different tiers,
as well as help out with PayPal.
Thank you so much.
Don't forget to like, subscribe, share, and comment.
MythVision, welcome to MythVision podcast.
Your host, Derek Lambert, got a head full of butchered hair under this hat.
And I'm going to be interviewing another Derek, which tells you it's going to be a
great show, hands down.
Derek Bennett, who's been on the show before, we've talked about mystery schools.
We've talked about, or better yet, mystery cults.
The idea that a religious view or these type of movements exported into the region in which
these people started to practice strange things that are foreign to Judaism.
But anyway, he is an author and an author of the book, Addictus.
You can find that in the description, as well as a patron to help contribute to what he
does.
He puts blogs all the time on Facebook, but also is going to put them on his patron.
But you guys, to see some stuff you're never going to see in Sunday school, you really have
to scour and know where to find some of this material to find how he patterns mystery schools,
mystery cults, Christianity, and sees syncretism, all sorts of amazing stuff.
And with that being said, I think you're possessed by Satan, the devil, and Lucifer, all at once
today or something like that.
Oh, yes, I am really feeling the Holy Spirit right about this moment.
But it's all bad.
It's all bad.
It's like Arnold Schwarzenegger says in True Lives, but they were all bad.
That was awful impersonation.
You did better than I could.
I do the get to the choppa.
Turn this off now.
I completely understand.
We agree.
Don't stay with us.
Stay with us.
Lord.
What are you bringing?
What are you, you've given me a hint.
So what is going on, Derek?
Well, you know, so Halloween is fast approaching and, you know, it's mid-September, but next
month is October.
And as you know, the entire month of October essentially is Halloween.
It is.
And if you try to dispute that, we're going to have a problem.
Yeah.
We're looking up your IP address.
We're going to hunt you down.
Right.
Right.
And we're taking you down to Chinatown.
And so, yeah, so, um, so I, you know, if, if you're like me and you enjoy the macabre,
the macabre, the dark stuff, um, you know, because, you know, we atheists are equally
Satanists and eat babies and, uh, that's a given, um, but yeah, that stuff is fun.
And that's what makes Halloween, uh, so enjoyable and fun.
So I figured we would dive into the origins of Satan, of hell, of demons, demonic possession
and exorcism, um, because if there's one key takeaway from all of this, I want you to
understand that this is a multitude of traditions that kind of coalesce, especially by the time
we get to Christianity, but, uh, we've got multiple rivers, multiple tributaries flowing
into this ocean as it is with the entire Bible.
Um, so, uh, let's start off with Satan.
Sounds good to me.
Yeah.
So Satan, it was, uh, of course the name Satan or Hassatan, uh, means adversary or accuser.
And sometimes it's used generically in the Hebrew Bible, uh, one can be a Satan, um,
as in an obstructor or accuser, uh, but there is also of course the, uh, the, the divine,
um, the definitive Satan as we see in the Hebrew Bible, who evolves and progresses into
something more when we get to later Judaism and the New Testament.
Um, but he's essentially, he's first introduced in Joe and here he's, uh, he's not the adversary
of God, rather he is the adversary of man.
Uh, he, he's sort of God's right hand man doing his, his dirty work, so to speak, his,
he's his divine prosecutor.
He's, he's sniffing out whether or not people are truly loyal to God almighty.
Um, so when he, we first come across Satan in the book of Job, he, um, he, you know,
the, the, the sons of God, uh, approach, approach God and along with them came Satan,
which more or less implies that he is one among the 70 sons of God or the 70 sons of El,
as it was in the old Canaanite pantheon, which still persists to some degree in the Old Testament
because let's face it, the Israelites were indigenously Canaanite.
Um, so Satan has been, uh, he asks, where you been Satan?
You know, I've been Roman throughout the earth and back and forth in it.
This is very much akin to the ancient Egyptian Shamai or wandering demons.
So there's sort of a link or tie in there.
Um, and what Satan does is he, he meets out tests and punishments as God allows.
So, um, you know, and there are even verses where, you know, Satan was at God's right hand,
right, his right side.
Um, again, he's part of the divine, divine assembly.
He's not the embodiment of evil.
He is simply, uh, as we've said, the accuser, the adversary of man who does God's dirty work.
It's really, it's not until the post-exilic period.
So that's the period following, um, of course, the, the Israelites were taken into captivity
by Babylon.
That, that forms much of the backdrop of the Old Testament.
Um, all of the, um, mourning and in grief and dwelling of that period in history,
but then later the Persians come busting in under King Cyrus and the Jews are liberated
and they're allowed to go back to their homeland and rebuild the temple.
And, uh, among the, uh, the Persians was the, the religion of Zoroastrianism,
which Cyrus himself was a Zoroastrian.
And you can see, uh, in the writings that stem from the, you know, from that period on
the, the impact of the Zoroastrian faith of religion on Judaism.
And, uh, it's during that post-exilic period that Satan becomes equated with Aramon,
who was the, uh, the evil anti-God in Persians of Zoroastrianism.
Um, he was the opposer of the wise Lord Akhura Mazda and he represented chaos and evil and
had his own demons and so forth.
There was this cosmic dualism between good and evil, the sons of light versus the sons of darkness.
Um, that's where a lot of this stuff comes into play again in later Judaism and in Christianity.
So, uh, in the younger Avista, uh, of Zoroastrianism, we see Aramon tempt Zoroastrian by promising him
sovereignty over the whole world, uh, very similar to the gospel narrative between Jesus and Satan.
Um, Aramon was the creator of vermin, uh, snakes and scorpions.
So we see in Luke, verse 10, 18, chapter 10, verse 18, uh, the use of snakes and scorpions
by Satan. That's a telltale vestige of Zoroastrian influence and Aramon.
And, uh, of course, in the end, Zoroastrianism had a whole, uh, eschatology, that is, uh,
end times schema, which we see come into play and, and of course, you know, later Jewish texts in the
Old Testament and, uh, Aramon will eventually be vanquished. He will be, um, cast into the, uh,
the river of molten lava, uh, where, um, the righteous will pass through this, this molten lava
unscathed, but the wicked will be burned and Aramon will go into the lake of fire or river of molten
metal and, uh, and there he'll be vanquished much like Satan in, uh, in the New Testament and revelation.
So, um, very interesting sort of evolution of the character of Satan, how he begins and how he ends
as a result of, uh, the sort of historic influences of the time and religious syncretism.
That is fascinating. I mean, it just shows you that, uh,
using the Bible to interpret the Bible doesn't work out so well. Number one, if you really want to
know what some of this stuff means or where it comes from, you know, you want to investigate
outside. You want to look beyond. You don't just want to stick to your canon, but also showing
evolution within the narrative. Um, you know, it kind of can, in a sense, put dates to some of these
things, you know, you kind of go, well, hold on. The older you go at something Satan's, uh, pit bull
of God, you know, he's actually doing God's will like in a good way. Later on, it's almost like
he's fighting, you know, on the bad guy's team. It's really strange. You kind of see implications
with that in the divine council as well. It seems like, uh, that all the sons of God were, were all
good. You know, they were part and parcel of the creation narrative. Uh, they were there and helped
them create man and their own image and all that kind of stuff. And then what ends up happening,
it seems like they got corrupted. And this is where I think we start rabbit trailing into
later on traditions that become fallen angels and all that cool stuff. But uh,
yeah, I love this. This is interesting. You know, I really do. And modern Satanism, you know, I was
talking to Dr. Price, isn't even what a lot of people think. They get all frayed when they hear
it. They don't even realize most of these guys don't even believe in a Satan. And he says the ones
that do and actually worship him as a God, he said, they're just idiots. Like they're just idiots. So
I think that's funny. Anyway, I'll shut up, man. No, you're good. No, as, as I understand it, I've
got a friend or two who is a Satanist. And as I understand it, it's really more of a humanist
movement than anything because of the sort of anti humanistic proclivities of Christianity,
where you're taught to look down on yourself as a dirty rotten center. Modern Satanism is trying
to see us in a better light. So it's not about it's not about eating babies or sacrificing them
or cooking them or anything inherently evil. Interesting bit about the fall of Satan.
We see the first sort of snippet of that in Isaiah 14, where it's actually it's not about Satan,
it's about the fall of the king of Babylon, which is made expressly clear in verse 14.
Or I think it's Isaiah chapter 14, that is. But even that is framed by the astrological myth of
Venus or Halal. Venus was the bright and morning star, the light bear Lucifer, if you will. But then
the light bear Lucifer is cast down whenever the sun rises. So Venus's or Halal's
attempt to usurp the throne of God Almighty, it doesn't work out because the dominating
glorious and powerful sun rises and Venus is washed away. So that's where some of this
astrological sort of personifying or allegorizing natural phenomenon comes into play. So that's
another interesting little tidbit there. And it's really it's not until even later works,
such as those found in the life of Adam and Eve, that you have this fully fleshed out story of
Satan's fall from grace and his being kicked out of heaven. So that's not really explicitly
ever told in the Bible. Christians just kind of assume that it's there. Everyone tends to assume
that it's there. Kind of like there's levels in hell. Everyone doesn't really like Dante's Inferno
didn't take a, you know, I mean, that that became as important as scripture to a lot of
Christians. So today they talk about, well, inhale, there's special place for you. And it's like,
you know, what do you like, you start getting confused. And it's easy to get confused when you
don't know Hades and, and, and, you know, Gehenna, and you see Tartarus and these terms that are
Greek in nature, which aren't just places, they're the names of actual deities, they're gods. And so
it's like, what the Hades is cast into the lake of fire? You mean a place is cast into another
place or is it a being being? So you start getting into some strange, interesting concepts when you
start digging into this stuff. And I, as a Christian, never for a moment thought Hades, I just thought,
hell, because Hades is hell, you know, we're all like, okay, Hades is hell and hell is a place.
And it's a place where Satan and his pitchfork and his little demons rule and they, they stab
their little bad guys who didn't call upon the name of Jesus. You evil person, I can't believe
you didn't believe in this loving God. He's so much love. And just, yes, unconditional love
means being burnt for eternity in a lake of fire. Right. But you know, it's interesting,
you bring up Dante, there's this misconception that a lot of these ideas pertaining to hell
originated with Dante. And that's not really so because Dante himself seems to be pulling from
a whole body of ancient literature and ideas that preceded even him. That's what I was going to get
into next. We're discussing hell. Ancient Egypt, it's amazing how many of these ideas we see already
in an ancient Egyptian religion. Of course, you had judgment before the throne of Osiris
and the tribunal of 42 judges. The, your heart was weighed on a scale against the feather of
mocks or truth and right living. And if your heart was too heavy, too burdened with sin,
it was cast into the jaws of this vile crocodile headed creature, Amit. And, and then your body
was cast into this lake of fire. Already we see the lake of fire in ancient Egyptian texts. There
are even little pictograms of these, these fiery lakes. Wow. Long before revelation was, was written.
And another theological point of interest is the, the idea of the second death. Already you had this
idea of being tossed into the lake of fire and suffering the second and final death. Again,
we see this idea replayed in, in, in the book of Revelation. Thoth, the God Thoth recorded,
he was the scribal God who recorded the results of what went down with this wane of the heart. So
it's almost like a, an interesting parallel with the book of life. Again, as seen in Revelation.
The damned were hacked into pieces and tortured by fiery demons and ultimately annihilated. So
they didn't suffer eternally, rather they were annihilated. Again, you see that link in, in the
book of Revelation where it's, it's not so much about eternal torment, but about it ultimately
being annihilated once cast into the lake of fire. The tale of, yeah, the tale of, of Seosiris
is an interesting precursor to the story of, of the rich man who's suffering in hell and the poor
man Lazarus to whom he tries to appeal in that parable in Luke. We've already gotten the tale
of Seosiris among the Egyptians, the idea of a rich man suffering while a poor man is rewarded for
his good deeds. It's, it's, it's amazing how much of the stuff you find already in these ancient
Egyptian texts. So let me ask you this in light of this, because we have, we have some very intelligent
people that we've communicated with that would disagree probably to some extent with this.
Let's use, for example, he's a good friend of mine, he really is, Christopher Hansen.
And he is a skeptic. I'm so glad he is because it challenges us to think harder to really think,
is this really the case? And one of the things I like about him is he tries to stick in the
milieu and like focus on what it is. But I don't know if he would deny some of that. In fact,
I think he might agree with us to some degree that like, okay, I agree that like these concepts
may have carried on, you know, from older religious thoughts and such. I think where he
has his issues when you start to look at some of the more parallels type stuff, when you start
to parallel like as if it has authentic genetic connections and things like that, where like I
recently was reading in Dennis McDonald's book on the Dionysian Gospel, he goes in this introduction
explaining the Johannine tradition and all this stuff, right? And he goes, let me quote a few
scholars for you. He quotes a few scholars and he says, but notice they stop short of saying this
is literally constructed from the Dionysian Euripides, the Bacchai whatnot, from that narrative.
And he goes, I'm going to show you by taking a step further that I think there's a genetic
construction from the narrative. And the argument the scholars say is, well, this stuff floats in
the air, like it's almost like, because it was in the air during this time in this cultural context,
everybody knew Dionysus did this. So it was easy to say in your mind, oh, Jesus, you know,
let's something similar like this, but not looking at the text. And he thinks that they're wrong,
of course, they stopped short of going all the way and saying, guys, like,
here's a literary connection. And Dr. Price would agree with you more. So what do you think? Do you
think some of our skeptic friends would be reluctant to jump on board what you're saying and suggesting
here? Do you think you probably would agree with you to that? You know, I actually, I try not to be
too bold in the claims that I make. So, you know, I'm not usually saying that, my goodness, the
biblical authors must have sat down with the gospel of the pagans and just started plagiarizing
this straight from the books. It is rather the more, I guess, sophisticated view that certain
ideas were prevalent during that time. In some cases, there may be a direct literary borrowing
or genealogical connection. But at the very least, there's an analogical one that it's just kind of
cut from the same cloth from the same general thought world, that this was all part of the
consciousness of the times. That's really, I think that's the least you can say. And I think you're
out of your mind to doubt that. But I do think where a lot of these people have a problem is that
if you're going to draw parallels, they had better be from the immediate Greco-Roman or
Hellenistic world. And if you go beyond that, you're just strained too far. So, for instance,
if you're going into parallels from ancient Egypt, well, that's a much more archaic,
you know, culture, the one where there's this much greater distance in time, at least. So,
that's just going a hair too far. I disagree because if you look at the historical context,
for one, Egypt ruled Canaan during the New Kingdom period for half a freaking millennium
from the 16th to 11th centuries BC. That's 500 years. And we have archaeological artifacts in
Palestine, in the Levant of ancient Egyptian religious type, I don't know, I'm repeating
myself, religious artifacts. I love myself to introduce myself. But you have these ancient
religious Egyptian artifacts in the Levant, in the Palestine, and some of them of Osiris himself.
So, there can be no doubt that he was known there. In fact, in the archaeological study
Bible from Zondervan, so these are not atheists with an extra grind, they talk about the explicit
parallels in Psalm 78 with an ancient Egyptian hymn to Osiris, where Osiris rules over the land and
his regent on earth is Horus, just as God ruled over Israel and his earthly regent was
right. Even they admit this stuff, although they put their own apologetic spin on it by saying,
but you know, here's why the Bible in particular is special and unique, but they're admitting
that this parallel is there. That's from Zondervan. Ancient Egyptian love poetry
closely aligns itself with what you find in the Old Testament, including the songs of Solomon.
I mean, if something as mundane as that is found in there, then good grief, what else?
And then, of course, there was, as a result of Hellenism, there was the inflow of Egyptian
religious practices into the Greco-Roman world. You have to realize that Greeks and Romans looked
to ancient Egypt with all the kind of awe and reverence that we today look to the Greco-Roman
world. And those links have been established. And of course, that's why the cult of Isis and
Osiris was so popular in the Greco-Roman world. We know that Plutarch speaks of them. Surely,
Firmicus Maternis in the fourth century is still witness to this cult. He never says
that it is the cult of Osiris, but it sounds so much like the Osirian cult that there's
almost no doubt that that's what he's talking about. Josephus mentions Osiris by name. I mean,
there's no doubt that these guys knew about this stuff. And it was during the Ptolemaic reign,
during the rule of the Ptolemies, that many Jews flowed into Alexandria. And of course,
the Ptolemies ruled over Palestine even during some of that time. So even during the later
Hellenistic age, you had these inroads, so to speak. And of course, there's the fact that
Palestine itself was a popular trade route between Egypt and these other cultures to the north.
So, you know, if you're going to talk about the historical setting and context,
if I may speak plainly, there's a real ignorance in thinking that ancient Egypt would not have been
pretty impactful. Right. And so I kind of took you on the yellow brick road to show you the
Wizard of Oz. But I think it's somewhat in this vein in terms of where Satan and a lot of different
deities may come from or how they evolved and what demons are. I mean, where do demons come from?
And I know we're probably not there because you were going to touch on the hell, but
you know, it makes me wonder, like, you know, I went to church and we had a church that did the
whole thing, you know, like we cast out demons. And what did we do when we went to lay our hands
on people who needed demons cast out? Or we thought we were going to cast out spirits and demons?
We know we rebuke you Satan. What? Hold on. Thought I'm casting out a demon. Why am I rebuke Satan
to cast out a demon? It's just a Christian. We hear it from another Christian who says it,
who laid their hands on someone who's trying to cast out a demon, demons Satan. What's going on?
Like, aren't they different? Isn't this a different, totally different arena? Why are you
saying Satan? I rebuke you when you're talking to a demon. I don't know. Talk to me.
Well, yeah, it's, it's, as I mentioned, Satan, even in Job, he's depicted as wandering throughout
the earth and back and forth through it. So that sounds a whole lot like the type of wandering
demon concept in ancient Egypt. So in some sense, he's like a demon, but then the lines between
angels and demons were kind of blurred back then. So why don't we just, let's skip ahead to demons.
Let's skip ahead. We'll come back to hell. Skip ahead to demons. High way to hell, baby.
So demons were regarded as a source of plague and disease and mental illness in the ancient
world naturally, because we didn't yet have a scientific understanding of this stuff.
So naturally you were going to regard it as the work of evil, unknown forces.
And one of the earliest, which I find fascinating was the Mesopotamian
Lamashtu. So Lamashtu was this lion-headed goddess who fed on the blood of infants.
She was responsible for miscarriages and crib deaths. So the, the first lullabies,
the original lullabies were sung to quiet babies so that Lamashtu would not be made aware
of their presence. Hush, little baby, don't say a word. That's what the first lullabies were all
about. They didn't want Lamashtu to come and get you. And there's this interesting link between
Yahweh and the destroyer in Exodus 12, where the destroyer comes in and, you know, all the,
the homes that don't have the blood of the lamb painted on the door sneaks in and snatches the life
from these firstborn children. There's an interesting sort of parallel there with Lamashtu.
And, and in Hosea 9, Hosea 9, he's reaching out to Yahweh, to God and saying,
give them, Lord, what wilt thou give? Give them a miscarrying womb and dry breast,
talking about snuffing out the life of these children. And again,
an interesting parallel with Lamashtu. And, and also when it comes to the abortion debate,
oh my goodness, pardon me for saying so, but hush, little Christian, don't say a word for here we
have God giving into the will of Hosea by, by causing women to miscarry and have dry breasts
and slain even the fruit of the womb of the children of Ephraim. Yikes, you know. But of
course it's okay when God does it because he has the right to, yeah. So you know something
interesting real quick, and I want you to get it, keep that in mind, Amulence. Okay, do you remember
the movie Dragons or Dragon? It's a Bruce Lee movie. And it's like a, I think his son acted in it. I'm
not sure about that, but it takes you into kind of like his story and when he was born as a little
kid and his dad and somewhere over there in Japan, I believe it is, might be in China, I can't remember,
but they have these little lamp light type things they put at the window sill, or maybe it's not
lights, maybe they're these little like, they almost look like trays you'd put your cup on,
and they have symbols on them, and it's supposed to ward off demons from coming after your children.
So they have something too, like every culture seems to be having something as an explanation,
superstitious explanation for what happens. It's almost like in one culture you'll have something
that has its counterpart in another culture. So there must have been this free flow and exchange
of ideas, and granted there are distinctions to be made between cultures, there's a whole lot of
commonality as well. So, you know, this argument about cultural context, not to say that that
doesn't matter, but you are, you're sticking your head in the historical sands, you know,
not understanding how truly pervasive a lot of these mythic motifs really were.
So, um, so Anglican talismans, yes, amulets and talismans were used to ward off these evil spirits
and demons, and sometimes you would appeal to one spirit or demon in order to ward off another.
So the ancient demon Pazuzu was used to ward off Lamashtu, and if you're wondering who Pazuzu is,
or what he looks like, look no further than the exorcist. It's actually the image of Pazuzu
that is used in that film. So that's, he's one that's very much alive in sort of popular culture,
so to speak. Wow. That's crazy. You know what's crazy is I'm over here, I got my thing on mute,
and I'm over here like saying something, then I unmute it, then I'm trying to mute it.
I just wanted that one to sink in, baby. Just hold on, let me turn around and then
I just blew your myth vision mind. We talked about among ancient Egyptians, the Shamai,
who are the wandering demons. They were responsible for possession, mental illness,
death, and plague, and they punish humans by the will of the gods. Again, a very interesting
parallel with Satan there. Sekhmet was another lion headed goddess. Apparently lions were associated
with evil in some way, because she was a lion headed goddess just like Lamashtu, and she struck
Egypt with pestilence and plague with her seven deadly arrows. So there's kind of an interesting
link there with the deadly plagues of the Exodus and the seven deadly plagues in Revelation.
There's a great article on JSTOR about how when it came to the Exodus and the plagues that were
afflicted upon the Egyptians, they were probably drawing upon the Egyptians own religious themes
and the goddess Sekhmet in order to make that portrayal. Again, the links with the Egyptian
or the Gyasi are almost deniable if you really look deeply into this stuff. Among the Persian
Zoroastrians we spoke about earlier, there were the Davos. The Davos, perhaps the etymological origin
of devils. I don't know that for a fact, but it does. I came across that somewhere and it
seems to have some plausibility. But the Davos were sent by Araman to oppose the angels of the
wise Lord Ahuramazda. They tormented souls in the afterlife in horrific ways, horrific ways,
and they were oftentimes associated with specific sins such as anger, sloth, envy, greed, lust.
Again, we see these ideas well before Dante. He may have put his own creative spin on this
stuff, but these ideas were alive and well, even well before him. Exorcisms were performed via
purification rites and so on and so forth. And then in classical Greece, you had the Daemons.
They were not inherently evil. Oftentimes they were benevolent beings who were sometimes
identified with the soul. So you could speak of one's Daemon as their benevolent soul that
continued to live on after their death. It was only later in the Hellenistic Age, after the
Conquest of Alexander the Great, that Daemons became divided into good spirits and evil spirits.
And then of course, what did Christianity do with Daemons? They reserved the term Daemon for
only the evil spirits. Those were the Daemons. In a monotheistic religion, you cannot have
other divine beings among God. So just as they streamlined the pantheon long ago,
making Yahweh the only God and synonymous with El, you weren't going to bring in Daemons and have some
divine beings, perhaps angels of course, but this was primarily going to be evil spirits.
That's how they chose to inherit and adopt that idea. You have Lucian of Samosata talked about
those who free possessed men through exorcism. Celsus compares Jesus to sorcerers who drive
out demons. Apollonius of Tiana performed exorcism and drove out demons. Now,
clearly Christian apologists are quick to point out that the story of Apollonius from
Phylostratus is from the third century, so it post dates Christianity. But the idea of exercising
demons and evil spirits goes back well, well before then, even in an ancient Egyptian text.
It talks about a priest who exercises a demon from a woman via the God Kanzu. So this is a very
ancient archaic idea. It goes well back before Jesus or Apollonius. There's no need to say that
Phylostratus is necessarily swiping this stuff from Christianity. They both just stim
from that same pool of ideas, the same kind of mythic archetypes that were prevalent from
that day and age. That makes sense. And the daemons that you're talking about,
from what I understand, some of these scholars I'm reading right now, like Dr. Paula Fredrickson,
who has Paul the Pagan's Apostle and others in her vein, are saying Paul is fighting not only
flesh and blood, but not flesh and blood, according to them. Now, this is their opinion. Of course,
mythicists would go more on the spiritual side, but that he's fighting daemons. He's getting
attacked by these other gods, these lowercase G gods, these other powerful beings. And according to
this scholar, there was no authentic monotheism yet. It was more heenotheistic, so to speak.
There were other gods, but they're gods, the one true one, or at least most Judaism probably had
this idea. She says that Paul is ensuring his Gentile audience, look, come to the true God,
my God, because it's going to defeat all these other gods. You'll be protected. You don't have to
worry. These other daemons, which they're arguing are other gods. So it's really interesting. It
makes you think, huh, so he's the God who's going to conquer and defeat all the other gods, other
daemons. But technically, the correct term would be monolatry, because they reserved worship for one
God, even though they recognized that there were other gods and divine beings, so to speak.
But their devotion and loyalty was only to the one true God.
Either they're phantoms, or if they do exist, they are subordinate, and they are not up to par
with God Almighty. I hear you have more gods before me. Yes, that's true. That is true.
So we had spoken, we touched on hell a little bit. I talked about the ancient Egyptian traditions,
the lake of fire, the second death, all of which most certainly ties in to the Book of Revelation.
By the way, if you see these things persisting all the way into Revelation, then how can you say
that the soteriology or salvation schema that was prevalent in the cult of Osiris
could not have been influential in Christian theology of the New Testament? If these ideas
are extending that far into the Christian canon, it's bogus to try and say that they
could not have played a part in Christian salvation theology. The death and resurrection
of Christ having eerie similarities to the implications of Osiris' death and resurrection
and how that spelled out or essentially conferred immortality upon his devotees that they could
die and rise that he had. So yeah, so there's that. But when it came back to hell, the Persians
Zoroastrians had do zock and this was a dark pit of foul stench. Wicked forces were forced to feed
upon putrid things for a thousand years as they awaited the resurrection. They ate their own
excrement, the corpses, blood and brains, their own children. They were forced to eat their own
children. They were lacerated and decapitated, cooked in ovens and cauldrons, so you just
had this whole slew of horrific ideas that are found again in Zoroastrianism and well before
you ever get to this kind of stuff in Dante. The river of molten metal, which would annihilate
the wicked but not the righteous. We talked about that, touched on that. Among the Greeks
you had as you were talking about Hades, which was just sort of this general underworld of the dead
that was akin to like the Babylonian Arulu and the Hebrew Shio. And of course in the Old Testament
with Shio, that was a destination of both the righteous and the wicked. Didn't matter what
your deeds were, what kind of life you lived or what you believed, everyone went to Shio as it
spelled out in Ecclesiastes chapter 9 verses 2 through 6. But then you had the sub-region within
Hades which was Tartarus. Tartarus was a place of punishment for unjust and impious souls according
to Plato as he mentions in the Gorgias. Second Peter uses the term Tartarus as the destination
of wicked angels, so no doubt they were aware of these ideas. And in Virgil's Aeneid, I never
know how to pronounce that any better than you do, but in Virgil's Aeneid the hero catches a
glimpse of Tartarus and he notes that it's a swift river of red hot flames and a guardian
in a blood-wet dress. The way he describes that is so poignant. He hears groaning and lashing and
dragging chains and it's interesting when you talk about the fiery realm and the sort of rivers of
flowing fire, those who inhabited the region in southern Italy would have been witness to
the active volcanoes in that region. So when they see this stuff spewing forth from underground,
they must have imagined this is what the underworld is like. So that's where a lot of these ideas come
from. Even Yahweh has the characteristics of a volcano god precisely because the Shazu Yahweh or
those in that region would have noticed these active volcanoes and the way that Yahweh is described
in the Exodus, the mountain quaking, other verses talking about the mountains melting like wax, the
thunder and lightning that accompany the billowing smoke. It's known as a dirty storm where you have
thunder and lightning accompanying the activity of a volcano. So you see those personifications of
natural phenomena even attached to the Old Testament god himself. We talked about Shil in the
Old Testament. Hell is brought to the forefront of course in the New Testament especially in the
more Jewish oriented works like Matthew and Revelation. A lot of these ideas are tied to Gehenna
which was the valley of the sons of Hennom where children were supposedly
sacrificially burned to the god Molek. That was at least the belief attached to Gehenna.
What we know from archaeology is that more than likely it was just a job, a place of
refuse where the stuff just burned day and night and that kind of became associated with these
ideas about hell. So again you just had this multitude of ideas and traditions kind of flowing
together precisely because there are similarities and analogies between them. In the Apocalypsies
of Peter and in Paul, these apocryphal works, people are punished according to their deeds,
again like in Revelation. That's an interesting little caveat there in that so many Christians
think that it's all about faith, that your deeds, it's not about works, but you have,
you know, of course for Paul that's the case, but you have other verses including in Revelation
where it all does come down, you are judged according to your deeds. Again it matters
depends on which New Testament author you are appealing to, which scripture and verse you're
talking about because they don't all agree obviously. In the Apocalypsies of Peter and Paul,
blasphemers are hanged by their tongue, adulterers are hung by their feet with their heads mired in
the ground, murders are thrown into a pit, we're creeping things, torment them day and night,
creditors have to stand up to their knees and foul matter and blood. So you have all of these just
very macabre ideas that you find in even more so in the apocryphal works which undoubtedly stem
from earlier notions like in ancient Egypt and in ancient Persia.
I think this is an interesting topic that you're discussing. It just goes to show the
imagination of humanity in general to warn the current state of affairs in this life of anyone
from acting a certain way. It's like here's a great control mechanism but not only a control
mechanism. Don't just, I know so many people go oh this is just a control mechanism. No, no, no, no,
this is also a way to psych someone out to believing they're gonna get justification.
You know, oh well he raped and killed my daughter and I hope one day, well don't worry we have a
place for him. We'll be castrated twice a day for 6,000 years while eating from the carcasses
of rotten. You know, oh that sounds like it's justification. Cool, he's gonna be sucking one day.
It's like for the bad people who got away with bad in this life, they're coming up with a way to
make sure they get what's coming to them and for the good people who have bad happen to them in
this life, don't worry we got a good way where you're gonna get good coming to you when you die.
It's like so there's more than one thing. I don't think it's just control even though it's easily
manipulated and used to control people. I do think there's some way of creating satisfaction to
someone's mind who didn't get what they were hoping for or watched these horrible people
just skate through life like nothing happened, enjoying their life and destroying other peoples.
So it's kind of that I think, wouldn't you agree? Absolutely and it's interesting you bring that
up because you know the idea of hell and of course of heaven was all sort of in response to
the kind of injustice that that that pervaded the world then and still does today. You know,
in the book of Job and you see other theodities from that period that have very similar themes.
Job is not the only theodicy that we find in the ancient world which is a theodicy is a
it's a way of trying to distil the problem of evil and explain why injustice persists especially
in the face of an all-powerful and loving God. Job was an ancient theodicy and there were others
and injustice was a big part of the problem and what is God's answer to Job? My ways are higher
than yours you're simply not meant to understand and he's never given a really fully fleshed
sufficient answer other than just hey you know it's just the way it is and you don't question
the big dog upstairs. In Job 41 he brags, God brags about being able to to actually
wrestle the the the the dragon Leviathan right updo him. Can you do that Job? No I can so shut the
up. Yeah that's what I was gonna say like it his answer it was of course who are you old man to
answer back to God. Paul seems to have been convinced of this type of mentality for the
injustices of the world yeah and and you're absolutely right his answer is almost like
whoever the author is trying to explain Job I feel like in the times back then it was almost
like a sophisticated scientific explanation. Did you send the snowflakes from the north?
Do you feed the eagles that cry for their babies like like all these like things where you as a
human who don't know scientifically how nature could you know work the way we do today are going
to be dumbfounded like yeah God's simultaneously multitasking everything this God's way beyond
like he tries to use a scientific kind of natural nature explanation to kind of like over in act
like he's so beyond so intelligent beyond that he is blowing the mind of the the person reading and
I bet it would work in the ancient world but not you know obviously not today. Yeah and what's
interesting too is that you know God or Yahweh in the in the Bible in the Old Testament he fits the
psychological profile of the despotic king so that's kind of the voice that we're hearing this is a
you know this is a an authoritarian despotic king who's saying look peasants you don't get to question
my ways I rule and that's all that matters and that's final simple as that. That's exactly right
Derek my wife just walked in the door and I've only got a few more minutes so
if you would take us out with whatever you have remaining and tell people how they can help support
what you're doing you're full of information and I mean if I have a question about something I can
always hit you up and you have so much on this topic especially like synchronistic ideas and like
looking it's really beautiful seeing how culture utilizes these same myth type themes that are based
in nature agricultural stuff human you know experience all these types of things and I love
that about you you know you're my brother and I want others to be able to help and support you
and to to do whatever's necessary especially with addiction too we we need to do a show on that and
how being non-religious and yet staying off drugs work but with that being said is there anything
you haven't touched on and tell them how they can help you too? I was just going to wrap I guess
with the idea of Satan and Helen demons as I had mentioned this was a response to injustice in the
world and what's interesting is they they seem to have found an answer which was resurrection
you know or having an opportunity you know perhaps not in this life but in the next life
you will be rewarded or judged or condemned according to your deeds according to so everyone
would get theirs in the end that was the answer to injustice in the world in Christianity as it was
becoming in other religions as well even in the mystery religions it talked about those who hadn't
seen the light a whole boy you know no one knows what awaits them so it's it's of course because
of the kinds of trials and tribulations of the time that they they came up with this this idea
that still captures the imagination to this day we have nothing to fear of hell because
as is clear we can trace Satan demons hell whatever you want to talk about all of this
with stuff we can trace its its literary and mythic origins and what's sad is this idea
that persists in Christianity that hell should be a place not just of sinners but of non-believers
which is talk about there's no justice in that you know how could you fault someone who's born in
Iran for being Muslim or someone in Tibet who is Buddhist we are a product of our cultural
environment and you know what kind of god could could eternally consign anyone to eternal torture
for simply not believing the right thing that's not grace well said and unfortunately you know we
have nothing to fear of hell that's the good news it's myth but one that still as I said captures
the imagination to this day if you want to support my work of course you can find me on social media
on facebook Derek Bennett D-E-R-R-E-C-K my own unique spelling D-E-N-N-E-T-T but I will soon be
posting a lot of this stuff to to my patreon which I just I just got that started today
setting that up so that would be I think one of the best ways in which you could support me and
what I'm trying to do and I'm a lot more eloquent in written form than I am verbally but
it's a it's a much easier medium for me but yeah please do find me on facebook find me on
patreon and I would love and welcome your support thank you so much brother I really do appreciate
go help him out join the patreon become a patron and you know we'll be seeing you back here on
myth vision for sure you just did an interview with my buddy Tim Mills and on his show harmonic
atheist which was really good your story is a very interesting one which I really do learn a lot
from you you know when you write you write like you said your writing is very well done it makes a
lot of sense it's dumb enough for me to understand and smart enough for me to learn something from
it but uh it makes really clear sense and you always have a really pretty picture I was actually
gonna contact and say where the hell are you fine are you paying for these uh images because
they're so high quality I look on google and they always have like low quality images so
I was wondering where you're getting them from but keep it up man I really do appreciate it and
we'll be touching on more on this topic probably do some collaborations in the future where you
come on and we'll talk about some of these things because there's so many names of gods and places
and deities and things that are just it's interesting to hear that other stories and other religions
have this that's what made me personally see behind the curtain and see there's a magic trick for me
um was knowing that it wasn't unique to this one religion and that this stuff does
outdate in prior and existed after the first century or the books of the bible which really
blew me away and said huh I had to ask questions from there and I did and questions started to
come up with answers um that led me into more questions which made me just start becoming
more of a skeptic which is the I think a fair position to hold and so anyone who's watching
if you ever get a channel up like I said we'll put that in the description but for now he's
got the book Addictus and the patreon and get him on facebook I'll set those three links down
in the description so you guys can join Adam as a friend message him whatever you like um do you
have an email uh email is just my first and last name at hotmail.com that's simple I'll put it in
the description too and so with that being said thanks man thank you pleasure as always absolutely
and don't forget we are myth vision
