Ladies and gentlemen, get the book Dr. Joshua Bowen wrote.
The atheist handbook to the Old Testament, it is extremely full of knowledge and information
for anyone.
As well as join the Patreon, there's hundreds of videos that have not released to the internet.
You can ask questions and I will record them with these scholars in high definition.
I do that all the time.
You can also personal message me and you help the community grow.
Thanks a lot.
Dr. Joshua Bowen, I've heard it said and I want to lead into this.
In the law, I think it's in Deuteronomy where if a false prophet or if a prophet claims
something will happen or come to pass and it does not, not only are they a felt prophet
but that they are supposed to be put to death or something like this.
There's like this code saying don't let these guys come, say from the Lord said and then
it doesn't happen and then boom, put them to death.
I don't know if you know where that's at in specific.
I think it's Deuteronomy 17.
Just somewhere in there.
So it's in there.
That's all I wanted to make sure we were on the same page.
Well, there's this interesting guy named Ezekiel and he's a prophet of God, right?
He made it into the canon, which means he passed the test or whatever, right?
He prophesied tires destruction or at least it's overtaken.
And it's not just this guy but I'd like to dwell on that one.
Maybe we can jump to other ones after you're done.
Did this prophecy actually get fulfilled?
Is it a felt prophecy?
Did God mean to make it?
Take us into the whole topic if you don't mind.
This is one of the interesting ones because again, it's a prophecy that I'm surprised
when it gets sort of brought out by Christian apologists because I always think, why are
you talking about this one?
Because it's one of the prophecies that's so, so clear that it doesn't happen the way
that Ezekiel said it's supposed to happen.
And Ezekiel himself says that.
So it's just so strange to see people bring this out and not just in a defensive for defensive
reasons, but they bring it out for offensive reasons, like I think Jehovah's Witnesses
bring this out, like look at how detailed prophecy can be fulfilled.
So the prophecy against tire is part of the oracles against the nations.
It's just like a common set of oracles that appear in some of the prophets, the Amos has
them, Isaiah has them, Jeremiah has got them, and Ezekiel from I think chapters 26 to 32,
25 to 32, 25 to 32.
So basically what they are is just the prophet is, John Collins talks about this quite a
bit.
He always references Micaiah and Imla and you just sort of like, it's like a pep rally.
He gives the analogy of like a pep rally.
And it's, you know, come on, Yahweh is going to defeat all your enemies and let's look
around.
The Edomites and the Moabites, you know, the Philistines and blah, blah, blah.
So one of the, there are two fairly lengthy prophecies in this section of the oracles
against the nations in the book of Ezekiel.
The first is against the city of tire and the second is against Egypt.
And so the one that's against the city of tire begins in chapter 26 and calls for the
absolute destruction of the island city.
And Ezekiel says, Nebuchadnezzar is going to come up against you and he's going to scrape
you clean.
And the name tire is a type of rock, right?
And so, you know, this sort of the play on play on words here, it's going to take you
back, scrape you clean, take you back to being a bear rock.
The waves, you know, are going to come up over top of them.
In other words, it's total destruction, never going to be rebuilt, never going to be heard
of again.
And you know, you can, you can say it's using hyperbolic language, fine, like I'm, I'm fine
with that.
But the reality is if you, if you're coming at this from this fundamentalist viewpoint
where you're saying this is a genuine prophecy that God is, you know, telling, telling Ezekiel
who's telling the city of Tyre that it's going to be completely wiped out, then you
would expect that to take place.
And of course Ezekiel expected it to take place and it didn't.
Right.
So Nebuchadnezzar comes up against it.
We have pretty decent evidence that he comes up with a 13 year siege.
You can see it in Josephus.
You can see it in the book of Ezekiel itself and, you know, it doesn't happen.
He doesn't take it.
And so in chapter 29, still part of this oracles against the nations, there's a short little
like four verse appendix amendment.
I don't know what I'd want to call it, but to, you know, what happened in this concerning
this prophecy in Ezekiel 26.
And it's 15 years after it's dated 15 years after the Ezekiel 26 prophecy.
And Ezekiel says, well, Nebuchadnezzar worked really hard against Tyre and every head was
made bald and every shoulder was rubbed bare.
And yet he had no wages.
His army had no wages for their efforts.
In other words, they didn't get it.
They didn't win.
They didn't get in.
And you have to understand, you know, the island city of Tyre is in the center of this
major trade hub.
It's like in this trade network.
Hey, you know, it's, it's so it has land trade can get to it.
Sea trade, maritime trade obviously gets to it.
And so it's incredibly wealthy, incredibly wealthy.
So the idea of taking, you know, the city, the island of Tyre would result in plunder,
right?
An awful lot of plunder for the army and they would, you know, receive their wages that way.
And so Ezekiel says that God, because Nebuchadnezzar wasn't able to get in, he's promised him
Egypt as compensation.
Of course, we don't have to get into it, but that one doesn't come true either.
So the prophecy fails on its face, right?
Fails in the sense that God said, Ezekiel said, this is going to happen and it didn't
happen.
So the biblical scholars don't balk at what I've just said.
None of them, you know, like I, you can go through the commentaries that are on the shelf
over there, or you can, you know, read through the books that talk about different aspects
of Ezekiel.
And you'll see that none of them are like wrestling with, well, maybe it wasn't Nebuchadnezzar,
or maybe it was supposed to be something else, none of them are saying that.
Those are the data points that we all agree on, right?
Nebuchadnezzar was supposed to take tires, was supposed to wipe it off the map, and he
didn't.
And he says so.
So the question is, what interpretive model do you utilize to make sense of those data
points?
So for me, and I suspect for you, the interpretive model is, well, this wasn't from God.
This wasn't like, you know, a genuine prophecy, a divine, divinely inspired prophecy.
It was just something that Nebuchadnezzar, he's just seen Jerusalem fall.
He sees Nebuchadnezzar's army and says, well, you know, logically, it's just about to go
down for tire, right?
So and I have a chapter about this in my book.
And taking these Phoenician cities and laying siege to them or, you know, forcing them to
submit, pay tribute, whatever, it's not new.
I talk about three Assyrian kings, new Assyrian kings that did this before, you know, Nebuchadnezzar
even comes on the scene.
And it's just par for the course.
It's what you do.
So Ezekiel looking at this and saying, I think that what's going to happen is he's going
to go up and take this.
It's not like surprise, surprise.
Everybody expects that's going to happen.
So I think the surprise was that it didn't happen, that he didn't take it.
So the other way, though, if you if you want to maintain this is a divine prophecy that
God is speaking through Ezekiel, there are ways to do that.
Are they good ways?
You know, that's up to you.
I don't find them satisfying.
But there are theological approaches to this theological interpretations.
Now I talk about some of them at the end of the chapter, but what the probably the most
popular one that I see is that prophecy is contingent.
It's inherently contingent.
So, you know, that the story that's the example that's always touted out is Jonah going to
preach against Nineveh and he says 40 days and Nineveh is going to be destroyed and the
king and all the people repent.
And so the city is not destroyed.
God repents.
And so that's sort of held up as this sort of archetype is the quintessential.
Here's how it works.
And so it doesn't happen.
They repent.
That's right.
You can sort of get out of anything that way, right?
I don't mean to use get out in that sense, but you can address.
You can make sense of any of these prophecies.
So like Robert Chisholm, Chris, they've written articles on this sort of talking about
this, but they make the argument that, OK, so if prophecies contingent, that means that
in the same way that Nineveh repented, tire must have repented somehow.
And so they were spared by God.
And of course, then they have to carry that further and say, well, Egypt must have somehow
repented.
And that's why Nebuchadnezzar didn't take Egypt.
So at some point for me, I say, OK, well, you know, this doesn't this doesn't seem to
ring true.
But that's the real issue.
That's the crux of the matter.
Now Christian apologists, for example, what they online in particular, what they want
to do is try to argue that Ezekiel 26 wasn't only about Nebuchadnezzar, because what we
know from history is that Alexander the Great was able to get in.
Of course, he didn't destroy it either.
Neither, neither here nor there at the moment.
And so what they want to say is that there are certain key phrases or hidden ideas that
are in Ezekiel 26 that didn't lead Ezekiel to believe or the writer or the readers at
the time to believe.
But us looking back, God intended this as it's more than Nebuchadnezzar that's being
referred to.
There are two places that you see sort of argued is I guess first three or four.
I can't remember of chapter 26.
It says, therefore, I will bring up against you many nations as the sea brings up its waves.
And so that phrase in the Hebrew, the goyim rabbim, well, that must mean Nebuchadnezzar
is nation number one.
Then there are going to be more nations after it, of course, the door open.
Yeah.
Of course, it's interesting that many nations like rabbim is like a whole bunch.
You would expect more than just one more, right?
If that's what's really going on here, you would expect more than just Alexander.
But in this scheme, it's like Nebuchadnezzar, then Alexander.
So that doesn't really work either.
But nonetheless, that's one Babylon have been a conglomeration of nations.
And that's why when I say it's strange to me, like everybody recognizes this, the biblical
scholars, this is what they recognize.
You just don't read stuff like that in the real world.
But it becomes that kind of book for most sacred believers of this particular view of
the book.
Yeah.
And I was thinking about Revelation.
I don't know why Locus in the book of Revelation kept coming up.
Like, there's got to be these Locus.
This is that.
And people are like, when did this wild, crazy, unbelievable Locus scene happen?
Oh, no.
Those are helicopters.
Don't you realize?
It's like, whoa, whoever does such a thing, well, you know, you'd be surprised.
Yeah.
I mean, again, apocalyptic literature, end time stuff.
Like what is the book of Joel has, I think, you know, like with three or four different
types of Locus that completely sweep over the land.
And it's like, I think that's where it is Joel chapter one, forgive me if I get that
wrong.
You know, that this certain type of type of Locus one comes over the land and what they
leave behind Locus number two comes over and consumes and what the little bit that they
leave behind can type of Locus number three comes along and consumes.
So, you know, so many helicopters.
I just so many helicopters.
And I was thinking about that one scene where it says that the tongue would be like melted
to the roof of the mouth and it's like, nuclear bomb, duh, don't you see it?
Like, and people will interpret.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Anything to make it like, no, this is still alive for today.
Is that possible, I guess, but yeah, is that the most reasonable right interpretation?
But yeah, so tires prophecy by Ezekiel Feld.
And I guess the final question in the vein of that is this made it into the canon, but
it also is letting you know it didn't happen in its own book.
What does that say about what I said about the prophet who says these things will come
to pass, but didn't like, how was this understood?
Do you know if anyone wrote on this and how they said, OK, this is OK.
How did they rationalize it that one fundamentalist like, yeah, so, I mean, there are a couple
of things.
One, it's been argued, I think, probably convincingly that the fact that that remains
in the canon shows probably early date, right?
Why would you make that up is the point and put that in there?
So it's probably goes back to Ezekiel.
Now, I'm not an Ezekiel expert and dating things and trying to figure out, is this layer
one layer two?
Like, that's a very specialized field, so nobody should just take my word for that.
But the other thing that I think is important in this is that I think it's pretty clear
in Ezekiel's mind.
So if you go back at these chapter 13, Ezekiel starts to have problems already with people
thinking that he's not a real prophet, right?
And so I think these oracles are supposed to come from God at these opportune moments,
these auspicious moments to provide him with, you know, this this evidence that indeed he
is a prophet of God.
And so this is probably what we see in chapter 29.
So I mean, if we lay this out, sort of paint the picture, Ezekiel prophesies in what, 585,
you know, roughly 586, 585, and my three-year-olds coming down the steps.
But I'll finish this up.
But, you know, 15 years later, it still hasn't happened, and that's a long time.
That's a long time for that prophecy to fail or for it to not come to pass.
And you've got to imagine that people are looking at like talking to Ezekiel, thinking
about Ezekiel, Ezekiel's thinking to himself, OK, I mean, because if he laid siege, if Nebuchadnezzar
laid siege for 13 years and then stopped, now two years have gone by and it's like,
hey, Ezekiel, like, didn't you say, looky here, a word from the Lord, thus says Yahweh.
And it's like, OK, a little convenient that that's coming, you know, but I think what
that was to do was to set it in place so that it's not a failed prophecy.
It's it's it's like it's it's God made somehow made this decision, right?
And so as far as Ezekiel is concerned, this allows for this interpretation to take place
and have it not be this incredibly problematic thing that we see in the book of Deuteronomy.
