Please consider becoming a patron of Myth Fish and Podcasts, you'll get early access
to every video including this amazing one, and you can ask me personal questions, private
message me anything you'd like.
Professor Joel Baden, I have this lingering question, and I know I've got a lot to learn.
I came out of the Christian Evangelical Fundamentalist camp, the Bible interprets the Bible, and
means this most of the time, where it means this, it all means the same stuff, and it's
all talking because it's all the voice of God technically writing to the pen of these
men, and I started finding out over the past few years how human the Bible is, and I don't
mean that like, well duh, humans wrote it, no like human error, human humanity, not divine,
and I found out that there were probably some contradictions and probably fell prophecies.
So I think it's important to start with the basics and work into this, what is prophecy,
and tell us maybe some of the humanity errors that have taken place and how they adjusted
it.
Yeah, it's funny because when you use the phrase like failed prophecy, I think you're already
already dealing with a weird non-biblical notion of prophecy, right?
We today, I think often use the word prophecy to think about like telling the future, like
ah, the world will end on whatever date, like that's a prophecy, the Trump prophet,
like you know, it goes with like, you know, belief in it, like being able to tell me exactly
what's going to happen and like, did it come true or not, and that's not what prophecy
is in the Bible.
Virtually all biblical prophecy, virtually all, is an attempt to change the behavior
of the people around the prophet, right?
And when the future is invoked, it is invoked in terms of, you know, I will bring down my
wrath upon you, right?
Because you are so bad with the like underlying idea of being, so stop, like stop being bad
and this won't happen, but like you keep on being so evil and therefore this is what will
befall you, like.
So they're not visions of the future for the sake of like, this is the certainty of what
will happen.
They are, if you don't change your ways, right?
Prophets are all about, right, they are speaking truth to power in various ways, but like they're
all about trying to engage, whether it's they're speaking to a king or to the populace, right?
Change and be different and be better and like all the prophets who do social justice
kinds of work in the eighth century in particular, Amos, Isaiah, Micah, Isaiah, right?
The ones who are like, you know, stop being bad to each other, stop being greedy and evil
and like, and otherwise bad, you know, but if you keep on doing it, right, all this bad
stuff is going to happen.
So right, what's a failed prophecy in a sense is a successful prophecy, right?
Like, if I say, right, like, change your ways or this terrible thing is going to happen
and you changed your ways, my own prophecy would require that the things that I foretold
for the future not come to pass, right?
So like, the prophets are hoping that the things that they say won't become true, right?
They don't want that there'd be exile.
They want there not to be exile.
They don't want punishment.
They want you to avoid the punishment.
They want you to like, and so when I say, you know, I'm the prophet in this sense, when
I say, right, you are destined to go into exile and when you're there, you will like
realize the error of your ways, right?
What I'm, again, what I'm saying is like, if you just realize the error of your ways
now, like, we can skip the bad part, right?
Like, we have, we have the time to change it.
I mean, so many prophets are speaking directly to their, you know, to their time and place.
It's weird to me to think about reading prophecies as being timeless.
Or even way into the distant future.
Or even way into the distant future, because they're so often like, like explicitly about,
you know, like this time, you, King, whoever, don't make a treaty with whomever.
Like how do you make that about not what it's about?
Like, but I, but I know how, and this, and this is the, this is the fun part is, in fact,
this prophecy is so, was so tied to its particular time and place and circumstances.
Whether it was, you know, local issues or social justice or imperial threats, Syria,
Babylon, Persia, whomever, right?
Because they were so responsive to particular moments in time, once that moment had passed,
that prophetic texts essentially becomes useless, right?
Like if Isaiah says, I'll give you like the preeminent example, right?
Isaiah says, really, you shouldn't go to war here.
And I'll give you a sign that you shouldn't go on, go to this, go to war, like you should
not join this, this war.
And the sign I'm going to give you is that a young woman is going to give birth, right?
Now, within the context of its own prophecy, that prophecy ceases to be relevant as soon
as the king decides whether or not to go to the war, right?
Whether or not to fight in the battle.
If that sign is in fact about the birth of someone 700 years later, it doesn't do the
king very much good in terms of being a sign for the thing Isaiah says it's a sign for.
Right.
Okay.
Once that moment has passed, if there's a community that still says these prophecies
are important and relevant and part of our culture, you know, like we are followers of
that prophet or whatever, but it's how do, what do I do with this?
Like out of date prophecy?
Oh, I know.
I'll simply say it was about that, but it wasn't really about that.
It was about something else too.
It was about something else entirely, or it was meant to look forward in this way, right?
Can we do a couple?
Jeremiah says 70 years.
Yes, yes.
And somebody 100 years later says, how do I make this prophecy about stuff 100 years ago
relevant to me?
Not 70 years, seven times 70 years, right?
And so Daniel takes up Jeremiah's prophecy and says, nope, like it's not just or it may
have been about that, but it's, I'm reinterpreting it to make it relevant to my circumstances.
So when we talk about, when you use the phrase, the Bible interprets itself, right?
You meant it in the like, we can understand what the Bible means by like, essentially leveling
out everything, like flattening it so that it's all like consistent, right?
Which is a particular like hermeneutic of reading.
But in fact, the Bible constantly interprets itself, right?
That is prophetic texts in particular are taking up older ideas and older theological
positions and saying, that didn't work.
How do I adjust it for my own reality?
How do I take this thing that didn't come to pass?
Or maybe that did come to pass and like just isn't relevant to me anymore and like make
it so that it's about me today, right?
The Bible is constantly interpreting itself as prophets are picking up whether directly
on the texts of other prophets or, I mean, but they do refer to each other like Jeremiah
refers to Micah.
Daniel refers to Jeremiah.
There's three in a row right there, right?
Micah said something and Jeremiah was like, I'm going to refer to Micah's thing and Daniel
says I'm going to refer to Jeremiah's thing.
And in every case, it's like, let me take it.
Second Isaiah does it to first Isaiah, right?
Take some of his ideas.
I'm going to bring him 200 years later, 300 years later.
I'm going to make them relevant to me by consciously interpreting them, right?
Not by saying like, that was true, but by being like, I'm going to take those ideas
and those words and I'm going to say what it really meant was or what I can turn it to mean
is this.
And in that way, the Bible is, and the prophets in particular are constantly building on older
ideas, older prophetic thoughts.
So one prophet says, you know, we talked about this in a different clip.
One prophet says, when the, you know, eschaton come, right?
When Assyria falls, the eschaton will begin, right?
Isaiah says this, but then Assyria fell and the eschaton didn't happen.
So somebody's got to pick that up, right?
Like that can't simply just stand there.
So second Isaiah comes and says, no, no, no.
It's like, in fact, it's not just when Assyria falls.
It's when we're restored, right?
Like we have to come back.
And then it's like, okay, not just want to come back when we build the temple, right?
And it keeps on keeping getting pushed forward because the eschaton keeps getting pushed forward
because it keeps not coming.
Like everybody who says that the eschaton is coming has been wrong, right?
Because I mean, here we are today, like, hi, I'm not living in the eschaton, right?
So like no one has been right, which means everybody's prophecy either has to be completely
rejected or since these texts seem to have had some like authority or weight within the communities,
they have to be reinterpreted so that they could be brought up to date.
Ancient, ancient interpreters were totally conscious of doing this, right?
The oldest interpretive texts we have, right?
Like the interpretations of like Habakkuk from the Dead Sea Scrolls, right?
They read the prophet Habakkuk, whatever, it's got its like own contextualized thing.
And they say, oh, no, this is not actually about that.
This is about, we're going to say that this is about us and this is about our teacher of righteousness
and this is about the teacher of darkness, right?
And they're like line by line translating like 700 year old prophecy into being about today.
But they're not looking at it and saying Habakkuk was talking about us.
They're looking at it and going, we're going to interpret Habakkuk to be about us, right?
We're going to make this text relevant through the interpretive process.
They're pretty conscious, I think, of the fact that they're doing that.
That like they're saying this text, we are going to make this text continually relevant
by reading it this way, which is different from saying this text was always written to be,
was always written to be about us.
I think it tells you a lot about the movement too, about the way they perceive this literature
as it's sacred and it's holy and it has this, it's alive to them.
Even if it was dated, it speaks to them.
And I think that's like, we look at that today with Christians.
It's not crazy to think that that's something humans do.
So yeah, right.
But the difference is, and this is something I often, I wonder about a little bit.
So I was referring to, I referred obviously earlier to the Isaiah prophecy of like
what became virgin birth, right?
And the prophecy of Jesus.
So the analogous thing for Christians to have done there would be to say,
I know Isaiah wasn't really talking about Jesus, but because Isaiah is part of our scriptures
and I need, in order for it to not simply be like an old fossilized record or something
somebody once thought about stuff that's hundreds of years ago and doesn't matter,
I need this text to speak to me today.
So I'm going to read Isaiah, granted that it wasn't written to be about Jesus,
but I'm going to read it as being about Jesus.
Like that's how I'm going to interpret the text into relevance.
I don't know whether that happened, I think it probably happened in some pockets,
but certainly in other pockets what happened was, and what you see now is the claim that,
no, no, no, it was written about Jesus.
Right.
Like Isaiah in the eighth century was looking ahead 800 years, 900 years to Jesus.
And it was always about Jesus.
Right.
And everything else is a misunderstanding.
And again, this is the difference between like the interpretation and the thing being interpreted.
But prophecy, right, like the thing I was saying about the Dead Sea Scrolls in Habakkuk,
that's how prophecy works even within the Bible, right, is right.
I'm going to make this older thing that was about something else relevant by reframing it.
And prophecy does that constantly on itself, right, a constant process of self-interpretation
all the way down.
I mean, you can sort of trace it, especially as things change,
Assyria fell, Babylon fell, Persia fell, right.
The Greeks came, the Romans came, right.
You can see everybody adjusting as their, you know, every expectation of Eschaton ended,
as every imperial power that they thought was the last one fell away only for a better one to rise.
As they said things like, you know, when we are restored, everything will be better,
and then it wasn't.
Like they're constantly playing with all these ideas and like tweak it a little bit,
like reinterpret it a little bit.
So the notion of saying, you know what actually this prophetic text was always about this
thing that I think it's about today is like not a particularly biblical way of reading.
I don't know, and again, I'm not expert enough to know like whether early Christians including
in the New Testament were like conscious of the gap between them, between their own interpretations
and the thing they're interpreting.
But my suspicions they probably were because they were Jews and Jews were very self-conscious
about this, about like it meant this and it means this, right.
The both and of what a text can mean is enormously Jewish, right.
Like it suffuses all Jewish texts, right.
It's all, it's this and it means this and it means this and it means this and it could mean this
and I think it means this and I think it means this other thing and you're both right and that's
fine.
Like that's how Jews, that's how Jews read.
And that's totally incompatible with the like, no, no, no, it's always meant this.
See, that's what I was going to say.
All right.
So let me, a couple of things.
Paul says in 1 Corinthians 9, for example, he says, it is written.
Now mind you, he's not getting paid or something.
I can't remember the Corinthian church's holding money out.
And he says, it is written, thou shall not muzzle an oxen while it threshes, right.
And he goes, does God care about animals?
No.
He's talking about me.
That's what Paul literally says, right.
So he like literally, I've heard this is something in the rabbinic tradition where they like,
this is something that's mentioned as God.
There's a debate like, does God actually care about animals or whatnot?
But he says, no, it's not talking about animals in the actual law.
He reinterprets it and says, this is a prophecy about me.
And he believes that from my mother's womb, just like he is Jeremiah, I believe it is,
or it's Jeremiah.
And he thinks he's like this new prophet reinterpreting things.
But something interesting, because you big on the Pentateuch, I wanted to ask you,
in Deuteronomy 28, there seems to be this like doom and gloom in your latter days.
It's like this prophecy that's talking about in the end of days, you will be like,
you know, cast off into the lands, into the nations, scattered.
It's not in the end of days.
It's not eschatological at all.
Deuteronomy 28 is entirely like historical, right.
Deuteronomy 28 is people looking around being like,
When is this happening, if you don't mind me asking, historically?
I mean, Deuteronomy 28 is in the Assyrian period.
So like, you know, they're looking at the north has been destroyed.
And they're looking at impending imperial disaster from the Assyrians.
And so it's not at all eschatological.
It's entirely about like the threat of you, right?
Your success and ability to stay in this land is contingent on obeying these laws.
Otherwise, here's this whole list of terrible stuff that's going to happen to you.
And some of it is like, some of it is like, feels like, you know, like end of days ish,
you know, the skies will be ironed like in the earth.
But like that's just, these are expressions, right?
And wild beasts like in that.
You will eat the fruit of your own womb, things like that.
Yeah, but that's the thing, like that happened, right?
Like we have in lamentations, right?
From the poems about the conquest of Babylonians,
parents having to eat their children, right?
Like this, this is not like, it's maybe like heightened language,
but all the concepts are basically like, you know,
it's just describing the fall of a civilization.
In any case, that's not eschatological at all.
They're simply looking at like what happens when an empire comes and sweeps you essentially out of existence.
Interesting.
Yeah, I think this is fascinating.
So then in prophecy, if we will, the Lost Tribes concept,
Israel gets destroyed by Assyria.
They get taken in captivity.
I interviewed Drs. V. Benit recently.
He's a really interesting guy who wrote a book on the Lost Tribes,
like all the way through history, like how it was interpreted and understood it.
There were literally people out floating on boats,
looking for lost lands with people and the Native Americans with the Mormons,
you know, just never ended.
But there's a group that thinks that the first century is where this is actually
this theological prophetic scheme, if you will,
because they haven't been found yet,
is being used by Paul to apply to these ethnoe and in a literal sense.
Using that prophecy idea,
that's a whole in that prophecy that the Northern Kingdom came back,
if I'm not mistaken, correct me if I'm wrong.
Like it seems like when they got taken by Assyria,
some of the prophets sound like they're like hoping that they're going to come back?
Yeah, I don't know that I see a ton of that, honestly.
Like we have prophets who prophesied to the North when it still existed.
Essentially right before, you know, in the eighth century,
as it was failing or about to fail, being like doing the same thing, right?
Like y'all are going to go under, right?
Terrible things can happen.
I don't think, but they don't tend to imagine exile, actually.
They, you know, you don't find a lot of
exilic references in eighth century Northern facing prophecy.
They're mostly just like, you know, mostly social justice kinds of issues.
Once they're gone, once the Northern Kingdom is destroyed,
all the prophets are naturally focused then on the South,
saying many of the same things.
I don't see a lot of anybody caring much about what happened to those people
from the North, like to my mind, and you know, I may be missing it,
but to my mind, the whole Ten Lost Tribes thing is a completely non-biblical idea,
right? Like I don't think there's any idea in the Bible of like
getting those folks back.
Once they're gone, the folks in Judah are like,
we'll take over their territory.
Part of the issue is, and this is like a slightly separate conversation,
part of the issue is the notion of like the one Israel,
of which there are Ten Lost Tribes, then like the ones who weren't lost,
is like based on the idea of one unified Israel that needs to come back together.
I don't think almost anybody in Israel had any notion of that, right?
Like the people in Judah weren't like, oh no, our Ten Lost Tribes of us, right?
They were like, we hate those guys.
We've been fighting wars against them for years, like that is a separate kingdom, right?
Yeah, they got wiped out, like they're gone.
We can take over that territory now maybe, or not, but like we're going to like,
that happens, right? Like the myth of Ten Lost Tribes or like the need to reunify Israel is
fundamentally based on a sort of a biblical mythology that I don't think had any reality
for the people living in that time and place. Does that make sense?
Yeah, yeah, and I think that kind of is why Judah reconstituted Israel
when the Northern Kingdom is no longer there.
Yeah, they were like, great, it's us then.
Like we are the only ones left to where the descendants consider ourselves descendants of,
you know, whomever.
To the point where they say no to the people in the land when they come back.
Yeah, it's not right. They were so interested in the Northern Kingdom, like,
yeah, Israel became defined in the later books obviously as the people who got exiled
by the Babylonians and then returned from Babylon.
So if you stayed in Babylon, you weren't a real Israelite.
And if you had been in the land, if you were in the land and didn't get exiled,
and just been there the whole time, you weren't a real Israelite.
Because Israel is defined by the experience of having gone through the exile and then returning.
Wow.
Right, which is not so different from Israel being defined, you know, thousands of years earlier
in fake terms by the experience of having been part of the exodus.
Right, you know, when we look at the story of the Pentateuch, right, we see like
this is the way the Pentateuch tells the story.
Everybody who identifies as Israel left and came back.
Right, but we know that in reality, plenty of people who identified as Israelites never left.
Right, they were just the Canaanites who moved into the hill country and stayed there.
Right, but they collectively were like, no, our story is you are an Israelite,
if you, because you went to Egypt from here and you returned to Egypt,
you returned to Canaan from Egypt.
And, you know, they replicated the same thing generations later.
You're only a real Israelite if you left and you came back.
No one cares about the north.
Like the north, they couldn't possibly have experienced it.
They couldn't possibly be defined as the real Israel.
That was hundreds of years ago.
I mean, that's ages in that time period.
And also, again, I think like to one degree or another, if you were in Judah and you watched
Israel get wiped out by the Assyrians, it would not have been substantially different
from being in Judah and watching like Moab get wiped out by the Babylonians.
It would be like, it's like for you, dude.
But, you know, we ache for the return of our Moabite brethren.
That's not a thing.
And I just like Israel, yeah.
So then two things, if you don't mind, the 12 tribes of Israel concept, that gets used later.
Is that just like a myth based on the United Monarchy concept?
And it just continues on?
Yeah. So my take is that the whole notion of the 12 tribes with the like genetic,
like genealogical, like tieback through the patriarchs is entirely, to my mind,
is not entirely, at least largely, United Monarchy propaganda.
I think probably United Monarchy, that is to say, when David and Solomon take over from Judah,
take over the Northern Kingdom and do the fictive kinship thing.
They say like, no, no, no, we're not two separate people.
We've always been the same people.
We look, we all go back to the same ancestors.
We're adopting, you know, you've got Jacob, we've got Abraham and Isaac, and like,
you know, we're all part of the same family.
And then stories get told and built around that.
But I don't think, so yeah, I think that's more propaganda than certainly reality.
Right. It's not the, it's not the fact that all the 12 tribes came from one.
It's that all the 12 tribes became one.
And what do you think, if you don't mind me, last question,
yeah, yeah, five minutes left on the clock.
What do you think this is not in your wheelhouse, but I love to just ask scholars.
When Jesus comes on the scene and there's these quotes put in the mouth of him,
whether he said this or not, in the Gospels, that you 12 will, you will judge the 12 tribes,
or this idea that the 12 disciples will judge Israel.
And he mentions 12 tribes a lot, or let me not say a lot, but they're mentioned throughout
the New Testament as though it will be a reality, right? That there's going to be 12 tribes.
If Judah becomes the reconstitution of Israel and they're like, and to the north,
that 12 tribe thing, like for example, there's a rabbi, Akiva, he thought they're lost.
He literally says this in the second century, like in one of his writings, he's like,
they're not coming back, quit looking, but Josephus can't let go of it.
And he's like, oh, there's two tribes here, there's 10 out here east of the Euphrates,
different Jews with different ideas that are going on.
The New Testament has this idea that you will judge the 12 tribes, or there's something like that.
Is that just building off of the tradition and they're looking at the Old Testament narratives
and they're reading it like, this has got to be true for us today.
And it's really a united marquee first in its own original context.
If it's even that, do you think that's what's going on?
I mean, I think we have to remember whatever the case, that no one in the New Testament
or in that period is thinking historically. Their understandings of all biblical things are
based on a book. It's all literary.
Because there's no 10 northern tribes floating around.
To use the phrase 12 tribes is not necessarily so different from just saying Israel.
To me, it's not particularly revealing. Again, it's not my area.
So maybe it's more revealing than I think it is.
But it just seems to me like, again, I don't think there's any reason to think
that somebody saying 12 tribes in the first century in that kind of context
is going to be thinking about where the other 10 tribes may be.
We have to get the whole tribal idea into its correct framework.
It's conceptual. Really, there are tribes, but for the most part in Israel's history,
there's just two things. There's a northern kingdom and a southern kingdom.
Our idea of them as being one people is fake. The idea of them being one is the weird thing
that happened for less than 100 years of its history. Otherwise, they're different peoples
altogether. It's like Czechoslovakia. There's all kinds of modern examples of that.
Nations that were weirdly created but never really worked because they didn't really go together.
Thank you.
