According to the earliest sources we have in the New Testament, did Jesus rise physically
bodily with the same body we have from the dead? Or was it spiritual and in some other way
he was understood to have risen? Later gospel accounts seem to imply more of a physicality,
but there seems to be mixed messages in the New Testament on what is the reality? I was honored
MythVision was a few years ago to travel to Colorado and interview Professor Elaine Pagels,
expert on Nakamati literature and she is obviously a legend in the field. To ask her the question,
is the body physical or is it spiritual in the earliest sources?
Literal view of the resurrection versus spiritual in the early church. There seems to be
this hot topic idea. Professor James Table, for example, writes that Paul believed Jesus'
resurrection in Paul's teaching 1 Corinthians 15 was spiritual. He didn't believe that Jesus died
and rose in the same body according to James Table. Now, I pitch it to you because it sounds
that the Gnostics also thought in Pauline sense that this is a new body, not a physical,
corporeal DNA, tendons, you know, bones, skin, flesh, literal, even though the Gospels do hint at
some of this. That's such an important question. You know, there are many different people who
attest to having seen Jesus alive after he died. Paul was the first. He's writing, as you know,
earlier than the Gospels and he said he never met Jesus. He never saw him physically. Paul's
account is that he saw a blinding light. He heard a voice and he knew that Jesus was speaking to him.
He never saw a physical person, but the blinding light and the voice, a vision he had,
it transformed his life, right? And when he's asked about the resurrection in 1 Corinthians 15,
and people say, well, what do you mean resurrection? With what body do they come? The dead? And he said,
well, they don't come with the ordinary body that we have now. There are many kinds of bodies.
There are animal bodies and fish bodies and bird bodies. And then there are bodies of light,
I mean, like the sun, the stars, what you call their bodies are actually photons,
particles of light, through which you can see. But it's a different kind of a body. And Paul says,
when they're raised, it's not the corruptible body. It has to be transformed into a, he calls it
a spiritual body. And he doesn't tell you what it looks like because he doesn't know. He just,
it's a mystery. It's a mystery. Got that? Will be changed. There'll be a transformation. There is
some life after this one in this corporeal body, but it is a mystery and it's in a different kind
of body. So Paul says, many people saw Jesus. He never says they touched him. They realized that
it was his bones and his flesh, but many people he said had a sense that he was resurrected and they
saw him alive. Later in the New Testament Gospels, when they're written, the people who wrote the
Gospel of Luke, the Gospel of John, give you different stories about how people say they saw
him. Some say, well, Luke says he came through the room. He came through the walls. And we thought
it was a ghost. That's in Luke, right? I think it's Luke 21. We thought it was a ghost. And he
said, no, no, touch me and see. I mean, I'm physically present. So he seemed to be physically
present. And then yet he vanished again. Other stories that Luke tells, for example, when people
are walking on the road to Emmaus, they see a man, they walk, they talk with him. Finally,
they sit down to dinner with him. He blesses the bread and the wine. And they say, it's he. It's
Jesus. And he disappears. So I don't think Luke cared too much whether you said, we think he was
physically there, or I think it was a vision. Luke just wants to know he had more testimonies of
different people put together to say, well, a lot of people saw him in lots of different ways. John
does the same thing. He says, some people say they physically touched him. But in John's Gospel,
when Mary Magdalene is supposed to be the first to have seen him, he says, don't touch me. I haven't
yet gone up to the Father. And he disappears. So in the early movement, followers of Jesus
didn't care so much. How did you see him? Exactly what? They just said, do you believe Jesus is
raised from the dead? If you do, you're one of us. It's 200 years later that that teaching of
resurrection is turned into a dogma. You have to believe it this way. You have to believe that Jesus
was raised bodily in the flesh, went up into heaven in the flesh. The first creeds talk about
the bodily resurrection of Jesus. So when Christians are trying to formulate and say, okay,
I'm going to tell you what you've got to believe. It's got to be this way, not that way.
We don't like the ambiguity of the early stories. We want to nail it down. Sorry about this.
We want to make it very specific so that there's no ambiguity. So that becomes the teaching of the
church. And it still is, right? Jesus raised bodily in the flesh. That is a late development.
That's why when we go back to the early sources and try to understand how Jesus' early followers
experienced the sense that he was alive after he died, we have to find there's a lot more
range of opinion. And that's the kind of range of opinion that leaders in the church didn't want.
They wanted a simple answer. And they got one. They made one. I wonder if John, the Gospel of John,
has a later redactor putting in the flesh and the B.A. in that Thomas touched his wounds. I mean,
like, it sounds interpolated maybe in that idea or just a little late in the game. Well, it seems to be
an attack on people who say that the resurrection was experienced as a vision. Because the Gospel
of Thomas is associated with the disciple Thomas with a kind of deeper teaching. And the Gospel of
John, I think, was written to say, the Gospel of Thomas says, you know, not only was Jesus
among us, but he taught us that we are like him. He says at the end, you know, I am the Son of God.
You come from the same source. You are also sons of God. You know, that's part of John's Gospel too.
But John wants to say, you can't just believe it any way. You know, you can't believe that
you are somehow equivalent to Jesus as these other Christians suggest he taught. You actually
can't believe it the way Thomas taught it in the Gospel of Thomas. So John creates a whole story
that isn't in Matthew, Mark or Luke about how Jesus appeared to the disciples and he made them
apostles. But Thomas wasn't with them. And Thomas becomes suspect in John's Gospel. And then John
creates a story that's in no other Gospel in which Jesus is the disciples say to Thomas,
we saw the Lord Thomas being somebody who just doesn't believe he has to. He has to have no
diagnosis. He has to experience it himself. I don't believe it. So then John says, well, actually,
Jesus came back just for Thomas and said, okay, here I am in the body. You can touch me. Put
your hand in my side. You know, I'm actually here. And that I think is written by somebody rather late
to challenge the idea that you could have different ways of experiencing or understanding
resurrection. John's Gospel at the end wants to say he was there in the flesh.
And it does. That is a good explanation. The Thomas, I mean, you literally just launched
like five different books that could be written on this subject because just that idea that Thomas
is the one who's the doubter. He's the one that you should be suspect of.
Yes.
And here you have a Gospel written by a guy named Thomas that's supposed to be the
disciple. And he is don't take his account. He's a doubter.
The Gospel of Thomas probably is earlier than John's Gospel. That's what surprised me.
And so Thomas is associated with secret teaching. And when John wants to tell you what you have to
believe or else you go into eternal damnation, then you have to believe that Jesus is the Son
of God, the way John teaches. Then he wants to say, Thomas, oh, Thomas, he doesn't know anything.
He's just the one who doesn't have any faith. What I mean by faith is belief that Jesus is
exactly who I say he is, God walking on earth. And the only one in whom you must believe.
As well as the belief that he literally rose from the dead. And I think the authors winking at
everyone who's reading this and he's saying, you know, bless her to those who don't see,
but believe this teaching that he's physical. You know, I know that you're not, I'm not going to
appear to you physically. You know, Jesus isn't going to show up in your living room and say,
all right, here, come on, let me show you. I can't believe it. But bless her to those who don't see
this yet believe this.
Yes. And John is mysterious Gospel. It has its own spiritual quality. Because at the end,
you remember the author says, well, there are hundreds of other things that Jesus countless
things Jesus did. I mean, the world couldn't contain all the books that would have to be
written if everything were written down. So John says, there's a lot you don't know.
There's a lot we don't know. And there's a lot you don't know. And opens it up. And yet,
he also wants to put the brakes on believing it any other way than he says it forth. I'm sure he's a
very devout and serious believer with one particular perspective. But in the New Testament,
we have four Gospels. And apart from that, we have more. So now we can open our understanding
to a range of perspectives.
I love that. That is what makes me love this even more is just getting the range of various views
and seeing what people thought. Why, you know, something that came to mind to get technical
or like textual criticism idea. I wonder, Dr. Airman thinks that there were four different
distinct redactional, if you will, compilation, is that the right term? Compositions to John.
Right. And Dr. Dennis R. McDonald sees three layers. He thinks the earliest most primitive
is kind of a Euripides the Bacchai kind of thing. And we'll get into some of that maybe later,
but it's interesting. It's just fun. Yeah, they get into the weeds with John, which I don't really.
And they'll probably say, well, you're in the weeds because, you know, everyone's got different
weeds they like to look at. But is it possible that this is a later?
You raise a very important question that that the Gospel of John that we have in our Bibles
may be revised several times. Most likely the way Mark was revised several times,
not only in the Gospel of Mark, but also in Matthew and Luke. So people were adding to these
early texts. And the Gospel of John may be revised later. We think many people think the last chapter
is added on. And it's hard to think that it isn't because there are contradictory views,
even within the text we have as the scholars who work on them show. So yes, this tradition develops
and takes on definitive form in the creeds. That's what second century to fourth century,
that's more than 200 years after Jesus dies, 150 years, that this becomes a codified set of beliefs
that you must say when you're baptized. However, there were Christians who followed
Gnostic teachings, who said the same creed, believed it, and then said, yes, and then you can go from
there to the other levels as well. The Orthodox said, nope, you've got to stop there. Just
Tertullian says, one of the fathers of the church in Africa, he says, when you've got the truth,
you just stop. You don't need to go anywhere. No more questions. Questions make people
heretics. You just stop right there. We've got the truth. We've got the rule of faith. We know
exactly what we believe. We say this, this, and this. Those are our statements. Stop. Don't go
any further. The rest will get you into dangerous waters. I thought you might have said in your
book of the Gnostic Gospels that Tertullian, or one of the church fathers, he was very
Orthodox originally. Oh, well, yes, that's another story. Let's save that for another one.
Let's tease everyone and we'll do another report. Okay. Yes, he went off the rails a bit.
