Have Christians lost the meaning of resurrection? I have a long conversation today with John
Dominic Crossen on whether this was a physical bodily resurrection from the dead,
and this conversation steers in a direction where evolution, facts play a significant role in how
John Dominic Crossen understands the world around him and how he views biblical history.
You're going to want to stay tuned. Thank you to those who made this possible.
And for those who joined MythVision's Patreon, you get to view this before everyone else.
Dr. Crossen, Dom, the resurrection of Jesus has been an interesting topic for me,
especially understanding that maybe we're not understanding the resurrection
as understood by its different authors maybe in the New Testament.
A lot of people want to harmonize to make it all one.
Well, you read the Creed, Derek. Don't you know what the resurrection is? It's the physical,
actual body. Haven't you heard of the hypostatic union? You know, all of these anachronisms to
place back into the Bible. But then there's also the painted Mediterranean world of understanding
in the Greco-Roman world and the Jewish ideas may be floating around. It's not like one-stop shop.
You've got the answer. So I was reading a book coming back to life and then reading your work.
And I've heard you infamously, if I could use the term, say the resurrection in Paul is spiritual.
And what is meant by that isn't metaphysical, invisible. There's nothing to it. But
that Jesus's resurrection is not in the same literal corpse, flesh and blood, bone, if you will,
coming out of this tomb in Paul. But it actually gets painted that way later in Luke and John,
or if you Luke, Acts and John. Is that true? What's going on? Help us understand the resurrection.
All right. Let me start as I always do by trying to imagine in the first century
what these terms meant. I'm not presuming we know what they meant. In the first century,
for example, there were two ways of imagining the, let me use a neutral term, the exaltation
of an individual who had done something of extraordinary value for the human race.
And you're not going to say it just died in his tomb. Exaltation are if there was crucified
vindication. One was ascension. The Greek word would be apotheosis, deification in Latin,
apotheosis, ascension. The other was resurrection. Now I'm talking about what these terms meant in
the first century. Forget all the prejudice we have in our mind. We don't know what they mean
yet. We're in the first century. Jesus hasn't even arrived yet. We're trying to figure out
what these two terms mean. The term ascension was a completely acceptable word in the whole
Greco-Roman and Jewish world. People of supreme importance, Romulus for the Romans, Moses for
the Jews, the founders in effect, were exalted to God. They just taken up to God or the gods.
That's called ascension. Now you could argue if you wanted, what kind of body would they have?
And any Roman, any Greco-Roman would just say, well, if you could recognize them,
they had to have some kind of a body. Even when it was that Hector appeared to Aeneas to warn him,
get out of Troy. It's coming down. How did he know it was Hector? He didn't have a sign, I am Hector.
He looked like the Hector who'd been dragged around Troy at the bat of Achilles' chariot.
And I think the Aeneid says he was grim with gore or something like that. He recognized
them because he was what he expected. You had to have some kind of a body. Now Paul says,
what kind of a body? That's the question which inquiring minds in the first
century wanted to know. And the answer is, there's different types of bodies. Paul's answer is the
only answer. When Aeneas, when Aeneas, sorry, went down to Hades to meet his father,
how did he recognize his father or all the others? Or how did Dante recognize people?
It was taken for granted, he had some sort of body in continuity with their bodies here on earth,
but you couldn't recognize them. Now you might have said that Aeneas couldn't grab on Jesus.
But all of them presumed some type of body. Otherwise, how would you know them?
When Romulus appeared to Proclus, I think, after he had been assumed into heaven,
how do you know his, how do you know his Romulus? So we can argue with them and get into it if we
want to. What type of body? If you say, could they eat, I think most of them would have gone,
but they could probably persuade you that could eat if that was necessary.
These are like dream bodies, like what we see in a dream. How do we recognize somebody in a dream?
If I say myself, my father, for Father's Day in a dream, how do I know it's my father?
So leave all that aside, they took it for granted, some kind of a body.
Now, let me go back to those two words. I said the first word, apotheosis, our ascension, our
assumption, all over the Roman, Greco-Roman and Jewish world, that was taken for granted, it could
happen. God could do it to an Elijah, complete with chariot, maybe Enoch Moses actually in
not so much in the Bible, because the Bible says he died, but then nobody knew his grave.
So Josephus and Philo says, nobody knew his grave, he went home. So that was taken for granted. Now,
you could say, I don't believe it of your guy, but it was the international thing that could happen.
Let's turn now to resurrection. Resurrection was not international or intercultural,
it wasn't even totally Jewish, it was sectarian, phariseic theology. And it started, we can almost
date it, to the time of the Maccabean martyrs in about 160 BCE, and it was a question not about
us, we want to know do we live on? The answer throughout the Jewish
Bible was, get over it. You go down to Shoal and it's over. We don't do that Egyptian stuff of
living forever and building the big pointy things. Then why did they come up with this idea of
resurrection? Almost dated to the book of Daniel chapter 12, and second Maccabees were to say,
we'll get the body back and we're being tortured right now, but our tongue's been cut out, but we
get it back. We get the arms back. The seven sons of the mother in second Maccabees, because of a
belief that there has to be a cosmic justice somewhere in this world. If God is in charge of
the world and God is just, this can't be the way it is. There has to be a restitution. And they
would have said, well, don't tell us that our souls are immortal. We've read Plato. Don't tell us
our souls were immortal. It was our bodies that were tortured. It was our bodies that were killed.
We were executed in the bodies. So we want to know in the justice of God, were the bodies not
come back? And so resurrection meant three things, and I'd like to say all three things together
at the same time, but I can't. It meant at the end of time, at the end of time, everyone will be
raised up. They'll come back in the bodies. You could ask, why would cannibalism? It's easy to
mock this, by the way. Everybody will come back. They'll all be judged. And then there will be
sanctions that are returned in heaven or hell. That's a package. It's not just resurrection,
as if God was just interested in seeing what would happen. Resurrection, judgment, sanctions.
That is the claim of phariseic theology. Please remember Paul was a pharisee.
Now, I don't take that literally for a second. If you want to take it literally by all means, do it.
I won't mock it and ask about cannibalism and all the rest of it. And God trying to do all of this,
I won't honor it, but mockery. I think it's absurd taking it literally.
I take it metaphorically. I don't want to say spiritually. I want to say metaphorically,
and I take it with absolute stunning seriousness, because it warns us that there is an evolutionary
sanction on our species, not a divine sanction on us. We have been, 70,000 years ago, our species,
Homo sapiens, just us, Homo sapiens left Africa and declared war on the world.
That's who we did, as if it would be sustainable. We went after the physical world, we went after
the other species that we put this way, and we went after ourselves. And there is an evolutionary
challenge. Forget about God or resurrection for a moment, of whether we are a sustainable species.
I'm not trying to be dramatic. We have never invented a weapon that wasn't more
terrible than the one that preceded it or one we didn't use.
So it's a serious question, called climate change. That's only part of the whole scenario.
Are we a sustainable species? Now, when I read that there's cosmic justice in the world,
I take it metaphorically, and not spiritually, because it's about us.
It's about the sustainability of our species, which isn't spiritual.
It's as physical as it can if we make the world uninhabitable. That's physical, it's not spiritual.
So I read Paul, and I read resurrection as a metaphor for the sustainability of our species.
And then comes the big question, how could Paul possibly say then that Jesus is resurrected?
By all means, he's ascended into heaven. You could claim that that's just part of the
part of the wallpaper of their world. Jesus is the founder of our faith, let's say, so like
Romulus for you, Moses, he has ascended into heaven and sits with God. Fine, all of that, fine. That's
essential. So Paul has to say he is the first fruits of the general resurrection. In other words,
Paul can only understand resurrection as this cosmic resurrection. Now, Jesus started it, he says,
because remember, the general resurrection is about the cosmic justice of the world,
the judgment on our species. Not by God for me, by the way. It's not about divine punishments for me.
It is about human consequences. If we are making ourselves unsustainable, if we do that and continue
it on the trajectory we are on at the moment, if it's unchanged, we are as unsustainability
as oil for the property. Now, to say that Jesus is the beginning of this process,
that's why crucifixion and resurrection go together for Paul, because the challenge of
a just world begins for Paul with Jesus. They took this person who lived for nonviolent
resistance to Rome and they executed them. That for Paul is the judgment on the world.
He says that. He says they killed the Lord of glory. So he's not just saying, well,
they executed Jesus. That was really not nice. He looks at Jesus as the beginning of
the cosmic justification of the world. That's his great word in your Romans, making the world a
just place. So I look at resurrection, not as spiritual. That's what happened to the body of
Jesus. I have no more idea than anyone else, but I'm certain it didn't come walking out of a tomb,
and if it did, if it did, most people would have said then he ascended to God. Most people would
have said, ascension, not resurrection. Resurrection was a sectarian. Quite frankly, I know of no
author in the New Testament prior to Paul. Now, remember that the God was sitting
compared to Paul, who ever used resurrection in the phariseic sense.
How do you know if somebody uses the term raise up? They're not talking about ascension.
If you use the word anastasis, that's the giveaway. Apotheosis is ascension. Anastasis,
usually anastasis necrone, the raising up of the dead ones. So anastasis necrone, that's why Paul says
in 1 Corinthians 15, if there is no anastasis necrone, there is no general resurrection. There
can't be a Jesus resurrection. No Jesus resurrection, no general resurrection. And the first time I
read, I went, wait a minute Paul, why couldn't Jesus have his own little private individual
resurrection just for him as Messiah and Son of God? Paul would say, but you idiot,
Dominic, don't you understand that resurrection is about the human race? Jesus can be the beginning
of it, but you couldn't have a solitary resurrection. That's not what resurrection means. You can
have a solitary ascension. So I'm going to be very blunt. I don't think most Christians have a
clue what resurrection means. If they were talking to Paul today and they heard him say to them,
there cannot be a resurrection of Jesus without the general resurrection.
They would want to say, why couldn't it be just for Jesus?
The general resurrection, whatever, leave that aside. These are part of a justification of the
world. And I would translate that into our language as the sustainability of an unjust world.
And what makes it unjust is that this is not a fair distribution of, the Bible would say,
of God's stuff. And I would simply say in my language, it's not a fair distribution of evolutionary
stuff. So you can't fight evolution. You can argue about theism or atheism or God exists, God
doesn't, because that's lovely stuff. You can't argue about evolution whether it exists or not,
as far as I know, any more than you could argue about gravity. I really don't believe in gravity.
I think, you know, I can go up to the 30th story of a building and when I hit the pavement,
then God punished me. No, no, God didn't punish you. Human consequences. That's the result.
So I would ask people, please back up, back up. And I'm talking equally now, by the way,
to literalist, fundamentalists, atheists, theists, whatever.
Back up the question to the sustainability of our species and our onslaught on the world.
How do you think that's going to go? And if your religion doesn't speak to it,
then with all due respect, your religion is at best a sort of a vacation spot, you know,
where you go for a little comfort, and it's lovely, and the music is great,
but it has nothing to do with reality, because evolution is running the show.
I leave it completely up to you if you think there's a God beyond evolution. That's your,
that's a different business. I'm sure about evolution, and I'm sure of consequences.
And so when I hear about resurrection as cosmic justice, I can't simply say, well,
it's all about a guy coming out of the tomb, and I don't believe that for a second.
And I don't believe we're all going to come up, and someday there'll be a...
What it seems to me is, if Paul is right about Jesus being the first fruits,
then resurrection has begun, judgment has begun, heaven and hell are running on now
in this world. There are options here, not locations in the future. They are going on.
They've started, as it were, Paul's language with Jesus, like the harvest. The metaphor he uses
as the harvest says, you know, first fruits. And I can't not see that from the evolutionary
point of view. I can't not see it. In other words, I'm watching two vectors. One is this
whole biblical tradition that goes all the way and comes out in Paul and uses their own language,
and I understand that. And I'm looking at it from a hardly evolutionary point of view,
focusing a little bit on our species, especially the last 70,000 years, as I said,
and also cosmic evolution. And I see those two vectors crossing. So I kind of try to be bilingual.
I can speak the Bible because that's my legacy. I can speak evolution
because that's the destiny. But you don't, it's not just all about, I don't like the Bible,
that God, Christ, Jesus, Paul, resurrection. Those are all giant red herrings to let us argue about
this, but we don't argue about the sustainability of our species. It's like that thing in the
Bible that, you know, they were arguing and eating and drinking in what Sodom and Gomorrah,
tired sight and wherever it is, and they didn't see the tornado coming. And the tornado is a
sustainability of our species. It's not divine judgment, it's human consequences. So I would
like to change the whole discourse from where somebody came out of the tomb and you could put
a camera in front of it and you'd have caught it. Right. And I think myself, if you want to ask
that question, CNN would not have been able to see it, but Fox News are probably have caught it
because they see all sorts of stuff that the rest of us can't see. So maybe they'd have caught
Jesus coming out of the tomb. Don't use that. You're being funny. Yeah. So let me make a point.
So for me, as someone who's ontologically, I don't believe in the biblical, but I also
try to empathize and understand. I really want to know what they thought, what they meant, right?
And I think what you're doing is you're trying to understand that Dr. James Tabor talks about it
and calls it cosmic transformation, that he thinks a cosmic actual metamorphosis is going to happen.
It's not just humans. It's all existence of all things. It seems, even though humans play a
significant part. And I get it. I like the evolutionary model. My question is, do we need
the language of the biblical account? Because from what I understand, I'm reading Paul and let's
just interpret Paul the way you're describing this and using the human, the evolutionary language.
He's using a tradition, but let's try to cross them. Paul thinks it's all going to happen real
soon. He's wrong about that. He's wrong about the soon whatever is supposed to happen is supposed
to happen in redemption of the world that's groaning and mourning and it's having this
pregnancy pains that it's about to happen, all that. Do we need the biblical account to really,
you know, I guess my point is, it's cool to reference that and say, hey, here's someone in
the ancient world who saw a problem of the way humanity lived and was, but do we even need it
to explain what we're seeing around us? Okay. Let me come back to the question of
Paul, you know, soon and being wrong at that for a moment. The reason we need it is this.
My wife and I live in a condo on Lake Miniola. We look out to a magnificent grove of old oak trees,
live oaks. They're a pain with other leaves coming down all the time. They're maybe 100 years old.
When the hurricanes hit the east or the west coast and the wind hits us and you look at those trees,
the branches are still as gorgeous, but the roots are holding them and you pray for the roots.
The branches look gorgeous. If you look out the window, a single branch can span as far as your
eye can see to left and right out the window and you try not to think of it over your roof.
We're on the second floor, by the way. Our roof is at the top. So I take roots very seriously.
We don't see them. All we see is those gorgeous branches.
I don't think you can operate without a tradition. I think that's why so many things start and stop,
start and stop. And I think I'm afraid that the internet is seducing us into thinking that,
oh, as long as we have all these people out there and all these people like everything,
something is happening. And with too many examples now of things that didn't work out
using the internet and things that worked out when they were built up slowly and carefully
from the ground up, like Martin's, King Jr., for example. So I think you have to have a tradition
because I don't see it anywhere else. I see people who are talking about this problem or that problem
and the real problems. I don't see anyone having a serious discussion about sustainability of the
human race seriously, politically. Now, a second reason why we need the biblical tradition is because
some people are reading it wrong. If I was in France with too much with the biblical tradition,
I probably wouldn't be talking about the biblical tradition. I would be asking, where do you get
your long-term roots, your long-term root, your tradition? I don't think you can operate without
a tradition. I see too many young people magnificently enthusiastic for justice.
And I just hope they can sustain without being burned out. And I think the web will burn them
out faster than anything else. I'm afraid because of the illusion that something must be happening
when so much is happening. And then we find it's just gone. It was a movement that
kind of is gone. It's like Occupy Wall Street. Jesus started a movement that I call Occupy the Lake,
Occupy the Sea of Galilee, but it had a deep tradition behind it. It had traction as well
because they said, here's how the tradition of God's justice and earth and God's rule for earth
applies to this lake that Antipas has taken over and dumped all the fishers out of it. So all these
fishers know this is unjust. And by the way, would you like to join my movement, you fishers?
And when I take you fishers into my movement, I'm taking you away from Antipas.
So you can see how the religious, the political all comes together there. Now,
I don't know if people can operate without a tradition. It's not my experience. I don't see it.
So good luck to them. Good luck to it if you want to work without a tradition. Now,
the biblical tradition, I don't know whether it was because of knowing the biblical tradition
deeply, profoundly, thoughtfully, and spending years not only reading its texts, but the other
texts of the same time and exploring all over the Middle East in days that you could travel from
from Iraq to Iran by boat across the Persian Gulf, and there was no problem.
The biblical tradition to me, I think, is what made me aware of the evolutionary tradition.
Before that, well, people talk about that, and of course, of course, of course, I accept it,
like I accept whatever scientists tell me, but didn't have much. It was nice. That's where we
came from. I didn't see the projection clearly. I could see the projection in the biblical tradition.
This is how we must live. They would say, oh, God will punish us or something like that, you know,
or it won't work or something. I began to say, well, they might have a right vision of how we should
live, but maybe it's human consequences, not divine punishments we should be watching for,
because I see the human consequences. I see that the Assyrians, the Babylonians, the Medes,
the Persians, the Greeks, the Romans all came and went. Now, I could say it was divine judgment,
by all means, but if I don't think it's divine judgment, empires all go, and they all thought
they were the ones that were there forever. So now, is the American empire then right?
No one that's the exception, or is it just one more or the same? And then it'll be the Chinese
empire, because you do seem to be traveling westward all the time. Are these human consequences,
then? Or can we debate, do you think God really punches the emperor? I don't think God cares about
the emperor. I don't think, I think it's just that they get too big. Are they doomed internally
for evolutionary reasons? Granted, they're not doomed, because God punished them or sat in
the judgment like Daniel 7 and said, you're all finished. So I don't want the discussion to be,
do you think God exists or not? Because that would take us away from what we are certain about,
is evolutionary works in one way, and it seems to work to the fairness for everything. Now,
I don't think it should be, by the way, so fair to hurricanes. If I was running the world, fairness
will be distributed slightly differently. Right. I think you're, you know, the way you're looking
at it is a good way of looking at it, because so many have taken a literal, and of course, you're
trying to say, no, give them a little credit, even if they were wrong in some respects. We're
going to be wrong in a century anyway. I mean, I hope our descendants look back and go, they weren't
idiots. I mean, they were definitely wrong, but they weren't idiots. And let's build off of that.
Let's perfect it. Let's change some things. Paul got, maybe Paul's right about this. Paul's wrong
about that. Be fair and don't just go, you know, too often that happens. So I'm with you on that.
And I think that I'm trying to give people who are skeptics a better name for not just,
and just stupid idiots. No, the same way, an archaeologist or let's say someone who's digging
for fossils, take serious to fossil record. Yeah. Right. They don't throw fossils to the side. They
investigate and look at the fossils. They want to understand the creature. What did the creature
experience? What were they doing? How did they popular? What was their environment? etc. etc.
I'm reading the Bible the same way. And it also paints a picture of the way our thinking was,
what we did, positives and negatives, you name it, whether it's misogyny, it could be who knows
what it might be, slavery. These are all fossils in literature of humans in our past and maybe where
we're going. And I think we can learn from that. However, I don't read it in the ontological sense,
like right, like people today will think that you're reading it in this religious sense of that.
But there is something to say about, if you learn history, so we don't repeat it, the bad things,
maybe there's something we can learn that's good that we can repeat that are good. And that's the
tradition I would say I like to look for is to find that deeply rooted within the biblical and
extra biblical stuff, whether it be not just the Bible, since that's you and me, we focus on the
Bible so much. I want to look at all religious traditions and histories and things like that and
learn. But I do appreciate you on your response. One comment on that, because I spent 26 years
teaching undergraduates at DePaul University teaching world religions. So I was never able to
totally focus on what I was writing about. I've often wondered, as a background question,
why people say we invent religions and then we invent gods or gods. And I wonder, why would we
do that? Why do we want somebody in charge as a punisher, as a word? We fight to get rid of people
doing that. Why would you invent that super being? I think actually that religions, I'm talking about
all religions, are intuitions of evolution. I think people caught hints of evolution. Now,
they didn't know about it. I'm not trying to say they knew about it, but watching the stars,
they were watching certain patterns, there were certain things that are happening and we're not
in charge of them. And maybe there's a god in charge of them or something, but we're not in
charge of them. I would define religion, a religion is an intuition. I might say a rhapsodic ode to
an intuition of evolution. Otherwise, I can't explain why so much of the one I know best,
other religions must speak for themselves, of course. The biblical tradition, despite the fact
that it spends most of its time fighting with God, by the way, every time God comes up with something
dramatic like your land is not for sale, what do you mean my land is not for sale? Well, at least
I can get a mortgage on it. You can watch the whole Bible as this radical God, even imagine him
as a fictional character, a radical fictional character who lays down the law as it were and
people say, hmm, they admit it and then they work to subvert it. To be honest, if I could say a bit
like we might be doing with our constitution, we revere it, but we don't really read the preamble
to it that says is to make a more perfect union and other things as if the purpose wasn't important.
So I see the Bible as intuitions of evolution because otherwise I can't explain how what I see
as the pattern of evolution tracks so well with the biblical pattern of what God wants,
which is the just world. And that seems to me an evolutionary imperative as well.
So I don't know how they track together unless I'm making it all up or something. So I'd like
us to take a good look at religion and evolution, not get stuck in Genesis one or something like that,
but ask whether revolutions, whether religions are like intuitions of some kind of a power,
a direction, a force if you will, but it doesn't seem to be a malign force.
Yeah, it does seem that there are what we call natural disasters, but they're not.
They're simply the calisthenics of the earth, the earth's crust forming itself without which
we couldn't exist. Get out of the way if you see the tornado, the hurricane coming, that's why you
have intelligence, but it seems to me that evolution is absolutely fair to everything.
Not the way I would consider fair, by the way. I wouldn't be fair to viruses.
I'd probably get rid of them and therefore destroy the whole fabric of the universe if I was in charge.
And that, by the way, brings up a flashpoint to my mind.
If you're looking at the biblical tradition, and say Paul, let's say Paul, it's very easy to say
Jesus possibly, and Paul certainly, thought this magnificent vision of God's rule and how
the earth should be run justly, would be over within their own lifetime. It's disputed about Jesus,
but I won't argue. If Jesus said it would be over in his lifetime, he was wrong.
I'm not an apologist for Jesus or a polemicist against him. Let's focus on Paul. Without a doubt,
Paul thought it would be over in his lifetime. He uses we in Romans and Thessalonians, we.
He thought it was going to be over in his lifetime. Let me tell you a parallel.
Once upon a time, there were two countries. They were both smitten, good biblical term,
they were both struck, smitten by a pandemic. The leader of the first country, country A, let's
call it, said, everyone must wear a mask. Under, under fine, they must wear a mask. And if we do it,
it'll all be over in three months. The leader of country B said, don't waste your time wearing
masks. Don't wear masks. It'll be over in a year. It'll work itself out.
When it was over, everyone looked at leader A and they said you were wrong.
It wasn't over in three months. It took a year. But it is true that you saved a million lives.
And then they looked at leader B and they said you were right. It lasted exactly a year, like you
said, but it did cost a million lives. Now, let me separate message from time. Message from time.
The first leader was totally wrong about the time. No, it wouldn't be over in three months. Never
was going to be over in three months, no matter what you did. But right about the message.
Yeah, you should have worn masks. You can be totally wrong about, totally right with your message
and wrong about your time and totally right about your time, but wrong about your message.
So when I look at Paul, I have to ask myself if the only thing he had to tell, if the message
was about the time, if that was the only thing that the person said, the first leader had said,
for example, it'll be over in three months. He was wrong and an idiot. Or the other one said,
it'd be over in a year. He was right. So time and message are not the same thing. You have to
explain to me if you say that Jesus and Paul were announcing the end of the world, their determination
of time, and that it would be within their own lifetime or their generation, and they were wrong.
Of course they were wrong. Anyone who said that in the New Testament was wrong. Mark was wrong to
say it. Q was wrong to say it. Paul was wrong. And if Jesus said that he was wrong, by 2,000 years
and counting, unless you want to cheat and say, well, they really meant 2,000 years plus 23 or
25 or whatever you want to do, if you're trying to be honest, no, they were wrong. Were they wrong
in the message? If we can, let's go into this a little. Because I would say that there's some
really valuable timeless wisdom that you can find with not only Jesus, but you'll find it in multiple
figures in history. Some of it, to me, is in using the evolutionary process that we've talked about,
is common sense. Anyone who's kind of sober-minded and can look and observe and realize, you know,
when you treat people nice, it's because you also want to be treated nice, golden rule, which Jesus
didn't invent. These are things that came before him. And if we were to equate that with his message,
I'd say that's true. I wouldn't say he monopolized the message. I'd say that this is a universal
principle that humans have learned in evolution, which we can observe. But are there things that
they've taught in their message that might be harmful or outdated or something that might not be
good? And I think everybody cherry-picks. So I'm not like picking on cherry-pickers. I encourage
people to cherry-pick. There's things, for example, we can interpret, and this also matters how you
interpret things. When Jesus says stuff like, you must hate your father, your mother, your sister,
your brother for the kingdom, to be this what we would call adopted, what is a fiction, fictive
kinship. Look at what the Jehovah's Witnesses are doing with this message. Look at what some of
these cults are doing to the family members that are biological, because why? They're not believers
of our tradition or they're not part of our groups. And so I wonder if Jesus was a radical like that
to the point where when they ask him, if we ask, there's a historical colonel here, Mark, where
he's like, hey, your mother, your brother, who is my mother, my brother? It's you, my brothers and
sisters in the kingdom, the ones who are following this message, because you know, he says that a
prophet in his own hometown isn't accepted. So his own people are like, probably his own kin are saying,
eh, nah, at least at first. And the others are accepting. And I guess when I get down to the
minutiae, some of the message I could see and I go, okay, this is good, things that Jesus are saying.
Then some of the things I see, the way they're looking at it in the world, I look at Jehovah's
Witnesses, I'm interviewing ex cult members and I say, this is probably bad. At least its
repercussions are not good the way I've seen it play out. Would you, how would you as someone who
believes in the tradition in a sense, parse the message there? So we get the timings wrong,
but the message, when you see parts like that, would you say, okay, I don't think that's what
it meant? Or would you say, maybe some of the message is a bit outdated? I find that as a way
of doing it, absolutely mind numbing. If I'm going to work with Mark, the first thing I want to do
is what is Mark up to? I want to look at Mark in his total integrity.
Then it's only within the integrity of Mark. Will I ask what that comes down to? Okay. If I start
with that, I'm lost. If you were to take that out in the abstract, and like you said to me,
if you said to me, rendered the Caesar, things are Caesar's rendered God and Jesus said that and you
give it to me as a aphorism, a one liner of Jesus. What does it mean? I think it means that there's
two forces running the world. One is Caesar and one is God, and you have to give,
and I think it explains to a split world, and it explains exactly the problem we're in at the moment.
And it is the most un-Jewish term I could possibly imagine, not even Josephus,
who was the post-Pro-Roman of them all, would admit that because Josephus insists
that God has gone round the universe giving power to each, and now the power of God, the
receptor of God, he says rests on the Romans. Don't disobey the Romans. He would never say
they're like this. God gives power to the Romans. He would never say, I can't imagine any Jew making
that as a abstract statement. I can't imagine a Jew, if he's looking at a coin that says Caesar
is God, and equates them, that he separates them, which is a little quiet whisper of treason.
It's a kind of a whisper. It's not a big bang crash treason, but it's a whisper of treason.
If I was a Roman official, I would say, now would you explain to me exactly how that works?
Tell me how that works, and then I would be getting ready the cross for you. So, yeah,
I'm pretty certain. I don't quite know what it means, but I'm pretty certain it isn't something
I like. I like Theos, Sebastianus, Caesar. I like Deos, Augustus, Caesar. That's it. So,
basically, I don't start by taking things out of there. To understand anything Luke says,
if I'm trying to understand, for example, why the Jews are the ones guarding the gates of the
masquerades, I want to know everything Luke says about Jews and where he is, and then I'll put that
in there. Otherwise, if I can use a political example, when I became a citizen in the year 2000
in this country, having lived here pretty much since 51, I read The Constitution. I actually read
the preamble first. It actually kind of comes in first, the prologue, and it gave, I think, six
reasons I won't remember them all, to create a more perfect union, Justin. I thought this was
lovely. I thought, well, that's the purpose of the Constitution, so it must rule all the amendments.
So, you can't have freedom of speech, meaning freedom to lie, or freedom of God's meaning,
right to kill, because the preamble says, that's not, and I've been trained in the Bible,
when the Bible says the purpose of this law is in order to do some, then you have to judge the law
if it's working according to that. So, I understand things in terms of their purpose. So, even when
I looked at the Constitution, I couldn't understand how you could live by the Constitution and ignore
the prologue. I just didn't understand it, because I was trained in the Bible, that if you're trying
to understand the laws here of Exodus, the law of the Sabbath, where it says, so that your slave
may have a day off, so that, okay, so the purpose of the Sabbath is not so that I, as a homeowner,
can sit around and everyone take care of me, everyone gets a day off, even my ox and my donkey.
My draft animals get a day off too, because it says so that, that's the purpose.
So, when I'm reading this, I'm watching for purpose all the time,
and I'm watching, regularly in the Bible, how the function of humanity is to beat divinity,
because along comes God says in the most magnificent things, you can't buy and sell land,
the land belongs to me, you're all tenant farmers and resident aliens, that's Leviticus,
huh, says the Bible, that's no way to deal with land, can't buy and sell land,
well I'll mortgage your land, I won't buy it and sell it, but I'll possess it when you default,
and I can see the Bible smiling, repeating God, and I watch that going through the entire Bible,
up to Jesus riding into Jerusalem on a donkey, and coming back on a war horse.
Of course, we don't like this, this peace donkey stuff, get it over Jesus and come back
on a war horse with a sword, so I watch the whole tradition, and if you ask me anything,
let me take the example, what strikes me immediately, if you want to break up families,
you break them up husband against wife, siblings against siblings, if families break up
generationally, that is the father against the son, the mother against the daughter,
the mother against the daughter in law, you're saying what is absolutely true,
and Jesus said it, and if he was smart he would have known it, this generation,
my peers probably won't take this message, the next generation will, and that's true for better
or for worse by the way, through our human history, the real big changes,
people who got used to that way of doing it don't want to change, it's the kids that'll change,
it changes generationally, so when I tell him, see read Jesus, I put that within the context then,
of Mark saying the generation of Jesus didn't particularly take what he was saying,
obviously some of them did or we would know about it, but it'll be the next generation to take it,
and maybe it'll be for the good or for the better by the way,
maybe the Jews won't take in the Gentiles will, and maybe that'll be good, and maybe that won't be good,
I think I would be much happier in the fourth century,
if the empire had become Jewish rather than Christian, because the Jews had been operating with
empires carefully for at least 500 years or maybe a thousand years, I think they knew better how to
not be suckered by an empire, I think they knew how to handle Constantine, they had grown up
handling Ashurbanipal and Cyrus and Augustus, yeah they probably could have done a better job
keeping Constantine in his place, so I mean I look at the whole tradition always,
and I put every part in that, and so it's the sweep of the tradition I'm looking at,
and therefore something like Revelation fits in with me with the expected refusal to accept
the non-violent Jesus, I'm expecting it, if I didn't have the book of Revelation I know it's
somewhere in there, somewhere in some text we've lost, because the pattern of the Bible is this
radical God asserts a radical vision of distributive justice, and the tradition which is ordinary people
like you and I, not evil people, quietly admit it to their credit, and then kind of subvert it,
get around it one way or the other, same thing happens to Paul, Paul is a radical, Luke is a
liberal, so he tamps down the anti-Romanism in Paul, and it comes out as kind of almost pro-Romanism,
now the reason I know how to judge that is because I've been watching that
since Genesis 1, it's the pattern of the Bible, God proposes we disposes,
divinity proposes humanity disposes, but it does admit the vision before it sort of subverts it,
if it was all subversion it wouldn't be worth reading, thank you.
