Ladies and gentlemen, get the book Dr. Joshua Bowen wrote.
The atheist handbook to the Old Testament, it is extremely full of knowledge and information
for anyone.
As well as join the Patreon, there's hundreds of videos that have not released to the internet.
You can ask questions and I will record them with these scholars in high definition.
I do that all the time.
You can also personal message me and you help the community grow.
Thanks a lot.
Dr. Joshua Bowen, welcome to MythVision Podcast in person.
Finally.
Finally.
Yeah, no babies going into labor.
Hopefully there aren't babies going into labor.
I hope me and you aren't having kids like that.
You never know, right?
I have some really wonderful Patreon members who help make what I do possible and your
book came out and it's really good.
I'm not just saying that.
I mean, I listened to, when I read it, I was like, this is good, but then I listened to
Seth even say it.
Yeah, see, that's why you like it though, because you can hear Seth's voice.
It's your voice, Seth, it's your voice.
No, but seriously, it's full of very good information and then you get to a section
about ancient Near East, all this good stuff.
Anyway, I just wanted to say that your book is good.
We've been friends for a while, but finally we get the opportunity to do this.
And so I give my patrons the opportunity to ask their questions.
Awesome.
They come first because they help me do what I do and people who contribute really make
this possible.
Michael Goodpastor says, Hey, Derek, ask him about the Hebrew Bible and Flat Earth.
I stray into those debates a little and I hear debunkers say all the time that Flat Earth
isn't there, but I certainly think it is.
I'd love to hear Dr. Josh's thoughts there as well as a rundown on A&E cosmology views
in general.
Be safe.
What a, this was not planned, by the way, but it's within, it's within arms reach.
This is the book you want to get, I think, I don't know if that's in the screen or in
the shot, but Sir Hervitz has an excellent rundown of A&E cosmology and including the
Hebrew Bible.
So yes, to answer your question, you're absolutely right.
The Hebrew Bible presents what they understood the world to be as flat.
It doesn't think necessarily in those terms like trying to contrast flat with round because
conception wasn't really there.
But yeah, I mean, there's foundations to the earth, you know, there's a big dome overhead.
You can see that sort of thing in the book of Genesis.
So yeah, there's no question.
Going into specific details without having thought it through, yeah, I probably won't
be able to do a lot of that.
That being said, volume two of the Atheist handbook to the Old Testament has an entire
chapter on Ancient Near Eastern culture and the ways that they think and ways that they
conceived of the world, those sorts of things.
And there's a section on cosmology.
So I'll get into this both from the Ancient Near Eastern perspective and from the Hebrew
Bible.
But like one of the things that we see consistently is that like this in Ancient Near Eastern cosmology,
there are different types of stones that make up three different layers of heaven.
There are different colored stones, which it fits with their perspective.
If you think about the Aetana myth, Aetana rides up on an eagle's back to go up into
heaven.
And on his way up, he looks down and the way that he sees the world is very much in line
with this sort of very like localized in their sense, not global cosmology is just a sort
of a flat idea.
And of course, the Babylonian map of the world, which my advisor, Paul down there wrote an
article a couple of years ago on and Gina Constantopoulos has written on this and we
actually have an interview on our channel where we talk about this to some degree.
But yeah, like the Hebrew Bible follows suit.
And so you, you know, again, foundations dome over top, like a snow globe ish, like a flat
on the bottom and it kind of has yeah, that's right.
And you know, these, these, these verses like an Isaiah where it talks about the circle
of the earth is like the horizon, the word is used for the horizon.
And there are some people that want to make that out to be like, oh, like circle means
like, you know, a sphere doesn't sell ideas or like foundations of the earth.
That sounds, you know, what, how are you going to describe that other than when you build
a foundation to a house, you know, there's four corners.
I mean, what if four corners even mean the four corners of the earth?
Like it sounds almost squarish, but I'm not going to say that they thought that they might
have thought that, you know, yeah, I mean, the four quarters, the four corners that has
its own, but it's, it's, it's certainly indicative of this, this type of understanding.
But the big thing is that the way they can see to the world, and then I'll stop talking
about it, but the way they can see to the world, if you look at something like the Babylonian
map of the world is that there's this land mass that's in the center, how far it
lands, you know, it's very depending, probably on the period, but, but then there's like
this, this ocean on the outside and then the far flung edges of the world.
So we're like the flood survivor route and it pushed him, he lives out there, you know.
So in other words, it's out in like the heavens out there.
No, like out.
So if you look at the Babylonian map of the world, there are these, the Nagu is what
they're called, but the points, these land areas where these sort of mythological areas
exist.
And Utuna pushed him is where, you know, one of the flood survivor, he, of course, Gilgamesh
has to go through this tunnel and race the sun to get to him right over the sea of death,
you know.
So it's this sort of out there mythological area.
So, but yes, Flat Earth, no doubt.
I got, I got a poke just on cosmology for a second and something else I thought was
interesting and it was brought to my attention.
When I look in the sky, like right now, I'm looking out the window and I see the blue.
Is that, are they saying that's water or are they saying because it rains from the sky,
did they, do you think they knew that clouds were the ones that produce water or do you
think that they thought the blue color, because you look at the ocean, it's blue, look at
a lake, you know, you can see blue water.
Do you think they thought that itself was blue and that the water disappeared when night
came?
I have to think back through the anti-textural data because it's been about two years since
I've looked at this.
But they conceived of, they conceived of the heavens as made of different stones.
And certainly if you read through like Genesis one, for example, you've got this, the
Raqiyah, the Hebrew word there, Raqiyah, Raqqah is a verbal root that has the idea of like
hammering something out flat or thin.
So the Raqiyah is this hammered out thing that's essentially put into the midst of this
primordial water and pulled up.
And when that Raqiyah goes up, there's water above it.
So they certainly conceive of the water up there.
Now, does that mean that that's the water that comes down during rain?
I don't know that that's the case.
Perhaps it contributes to it.
But if you think about the flood story in Genesis six through nine, it's those sluice
gates in the Raqiyah that open back up and let all that water back down.
And in the same way that the great founts of the deep break open underneath and let all
that water back up.
So it's again, it's this primordial water gets separated out.
It's water beneath water above the Raqiyah.
And when the flood, you know, when Yahweh brings the flood, he just allows all that
water to come back and recreate essentially Genesis one so that he can recreate.
And snow has its storehouses and things like that.
I mean, it sounds like the angels are bringing in and out.
Yeah. And the other thing to remember, I think, with things like cosmology, with
things like even mythology is that there's not this unified consistency.
And that means that, you know, when you think about things like creation,
concepts of creation, there's not this one concept of creation in the Hebrew Bible,
nor in the ancient Near East as a whole.
You have competing views, even in the biblical texts.
So in some passages, this, you know, you were talking to Dr.
Collins about this in one of your recent videos talking about like keeping chaos
in check and creation is less about overtly creating Ex-Nahilo and more about
putting down this, you know, the chaotic forces.
And so he mentioned Levinson's book on, I can't remember the title of it
because I never remember titles of books, but like keeping chaos at bay
and its persistence.
And, you know, so that mythological character is less pronounced in Genesis
one, it's sort of demythologized, but yet shows up in places like Job and Isaiah.
You know, so, you know, those are important things to remember that there's not
this unified concept that the Hebrew Bible has different ideas.
It's very rabbinic, right?
I mean, like arguing back and forth is sort of sort of the fun of it,
right, engaging with these concepts.
So that's actually a lot of the scholars just say that that's one of the reasons
why they think Paul's like a legit guy running around like that's he does like
what a Jew would do, you know, like arguing and trying to make his point.
But having fun doing that.
So I really appreciate that mentioning the whole chaos thing.
It kind of makes sense to if you look at whoever the author of Revelation may have
been, that they were aware of some type of cosmology like this.
But in their mind, they're thinking that that dragon, that that that chaos
that Yahweh is going to put a complete end to it.
No more wrestling with this thing, no more playing games.
It's supposed to be done.
And like he's actually going to put a finality to that.
And that was his hopes, at least.
So it's interesting to think and we can talk about this later if you if you want.
But like it's interesting to think about how.
Cultures mythology will develop in response to earlier mythology.
And like you and I have talked a little bit about.
The development in ancient Near Eastern mythology, particularly in a
Canadian text and one that we can we can go into in more detail later is looking
at how this idea of the tablet of destinies and the person that goes
and fights to get the tablet of destinies back, that whole fighting
against chaos motif itself develops.
So it's an interesting way to look at how
diachronically these things develop.
The last question in this vein, is that glow behind your shoulder, like a pun?
Is there like a secret behind there being a globe
while we're talking about the cosmology of the earth?
It's all about the Illuminati in like Freemasonry and everything.
So it's, you know, people are going to take that so serious.
I'm not even joking.
There's going to be some people are going to go, I knew that I in your symbol.
Derek, I have this all the time.
Was it you that we were live with where that was like somebody?
People were really or was it Skyler?
I can't remember. It might have been Skyler.
But are, you know, the the painting that we have in our background
in the study, the Mushkushu dragon serpent thing.
Oh, he's Illuminati. He's Illuminati, you know.
I wish I was getting paid by the Illuminati.
Yeah, you know, you know, the big atheist money is nice.
I mean, you know, I don't want anybody to be full.
The big atheist money is nice, right?
There's no big atheist money, I wish.
No, I really appreciate it. Let's do this again.
