There are hundreds of videos that haven't been launched on YouTube, on Patreon. Make
sure you guys join the Patreon to help us grow. We are MythVision. Welcome back, ladies
and gentlemen, to MythVision Podcast. Your host, Derek Lambert. It's getting crazier
and crazier. We're getting closer to the demise of the Prophet himself. We're weeks away from this
catastrophic event taking place. Joseph Smith has done everything, I mean everything, to slip out
of the hands of chaos and trouble. Even in the face of the lion, he's still going through. I don't
know how this made it. I don't know how this cult survived, but it's still with us today. And we're
going to be talking about its early history today with yours truly, Bryce Blankenagle and David
Fitzgerald. Welcome to the show, guys. Thanks for having us back. Absolutely. I ask all of you,
I say this before, I'm a little more serious in this episode because I mean, it's really,
really getting down to the end, the end of the Prophet himself, not the end of the church,
which shocks me how that works. And you guys go check out Naked Mormonism Podcast with Bryce
Blankenagle. He is the host. He's got the free patron right now. You can get ahold of hundreds
and hundreds, possibly thousands of hours of content on deep dive into the history of this
cult and the history of this man, Joseph Smith. He goes all over the place with that reading
source material. So I ask you guys to do that as well as getting the Complete Heretics Guide to,
I always do this every time, the Complete Heretics Guide to Western Religion, Book One,
the Mormons. I almost wish you could condense the title even shorter for me, dummies like me,
right? Now, the Mormons, get the book, guys. Get the book. It's on ebook. It's on, is it on Audible?
It's on all the things. All the thingies. Make sure you guys get the thingies. It's there. And
the patron, guys, go support him. He is a dinosaur, but his wife is not. And so she made sure he has
a patron. You guys help him out. I'm super stoked about what we're about to talk about, guys. And
I just want to set us off to say, I'm going to miss this when the profit isn't around anymore.
I'm going to miss this crazy mobster son of a bitch. Honestly, dude, I'm going to miss it. So
let's get closer to the end together. I love what David said earlier that we're like,
just skimming the tops of the icebergs in all this because we went through the
Novel Expositor, how it came to be, what it was, and the effects of it. And on my podcast,
there's a three-week period from the Novel Expositor being published to the death of
Joseph Smith in Carthage Jail. There's a three-week period there. And it took me something like 15
episodes that are each an hour to two hours long to cover all of the material that took place in
that amount of time. And even I was missing a lot of the rabbit trails and a lot of really,
I mean, you may think that I was getting in the weeds, but I was just overlooking entire fields
of weeds. It is truly remarkable how quickly things happened in this time period and how
fasting spiral completely out of anybody's control and how dangerously close
Nauvoo was to starting off the Civil War. And this was the Civil War because Joseph Smith
had established his platform. He had established himself as an anti-slavery, pro-industrialization,
pro-expansionism candidate for president. If a Civil War starts with him at the head of his own
personal army, this would quickly wrap together the entire nation into the divided
tribes of the Civil War 20 years before it actually happened. He had the power to make this happen,
but didn't live long enough for it to happen. And it came so close anyway. I mean, we are on the
brink of war as we speak at this stage of the story. And what is notable when Joseph Smith
had his marshal destroy the printing press with a bunch of guys, the laws, the fosters and the
Higbees immediately knew that they were no longer safe in Nauvoo. They fled to Carthage. Carthage was
one of the few safe places that a person could be an antagonist of the Mormons and still survive
because the Carthaginians hated the Mormons enough they would protect you, right? So when
John Bennett defected and was excommunicated and he wrote his exposés, he stayed in Carthage for a
year and a half collecting all of his material, publishing it. And because he knew that he would
be safe in Carthage, that's where people would have us back. And when Porter Rockwell confronted
John C. Bennett in Carthage, they threw Porter Rockwell out of the bar, not John Bennett. So
Carthage is one of the places where people know they can be safe from the criminal empire that is
Nauvoo. And Joseph Smith knew that Nauvoo was just the staging ground that he would be the
religious tyrant to overthrow the American government. He had already put into place
many features that were necessary to implement an Mormon theocracy. He had sent what he called a
Memorial to Congress that basically declared Nauvoo as a sovereign government inside the
state of Illinois, the way that it would, you know, a Mormon Vatican, really. And he even petitioned
the federal government for 100,000 soldiers to march across the West, all through the West of
the United States and to liberate it from the Native Americans. And he didn't want them to
be soldiers. He wanted them to be volunteers so that they wouldn't have soldiers' rights.
He had so many irons in the fire that were so burning hot that he was capable of pulling
any one of these out and inciting a second American revolution. But he didn't live long enough
for it to happen. And imagine a Utah that starts at the Missouri River and goes all the way to
San Francisco. That's what he's talking about right now. And that's just, you know. You know,
John C. Bennett, you brought up something interesting that I don't know why this came to
my mind. And I want to hunt rabbit trails while we're in the midst of the climax that's about to
occur. John C. Bennett had a lot of power. He brought a lot of weaponry to the Mormons,
which makes me wonder, asking you the question, while he was in Carthage, I wonder, knowing how
dangerous they were, if he pulled some strings to help the Carthaginians to have some weaponry to
say, listen, you guys, I just came from there. You don't understand what's going on. Yes, you
want to protect me. You need to also protect yourself. You don't understand how dangerous
they are. Let me make some phone calls, so to speak. And those times it was writing a few letters
and trying to make make something happen. Do you think that he may have pulled some some car
in even if it wasn't with the Carthaginians? My question also is someone of his power and
that's vocal like him, did he have any influence on any high up officials and influence them saying,
I was in there. I was stupid. I don't know what I was thinking, but listen, I'm telling you this
isn't a joke. Before we go too deep down this particular rabbit hole, let me just say that
you didn't need a John C Bennett to alarm everybody else. At this time, all the Gentiles,
all the non Mormon settlements there, all, all the Missourians, there was whole states
still hate the Mormons. And everybody who was their friend initially in Illinois quickly came
to see that, oh no, these guys are a big, big problem. All the newspapers, when they destroyed
the expositor, all the newspapers went ballistic over that. And yeah, I've got a quote here from
that. In fact, Thomas Sharpe's editorial screamed, war and extermination is inevitable.
Citizens all caps. Citizens arise one and all. Can you stand by and suffer such infernal devils
to rob men of their property and rights without avenging them? We have no time for comments.
Every man will make it his own. Let it be made with powder and balls or powder and bullets, if you
will. Yeah, so yeah. Yeah, we, so to go to what you're saying, Derek, Bennett didn't need to tell
people explicitly because he wrote his exposés, which were widely circulated, right? So he
initially wrote his letters in the Sangamo Journal in July of 1842, which were published
through the Sangamo Journal in Illinois and were picked up and reprinted by the New York Tribune
and some massive, massive syndicates that got his name international recognition and
affiliation with the Mormons and prepped the population to buy his book. And his book was
finally published in, I think, in November or December of 1842. And it sold thousands of copies.
He didn't need to go and warn people explicitly because everything that people needed to know
about the Mormon criminal empire and how powerful it is was all in his exposé book. And that was
read by a lot of people. And by this time, there's actually a political party that's the anti-Mormon
party, you know? Yeah, and Thomas Sharpe, like we can't ignore Thomas Sharpe's role in this, right?
Because when Sharpe heard that the exposer destroyed, like David, you quoted a little portion
of his periodical from that day out of the Warsaw signal, the whole thing is full of firebrand.
This is civil war. Like he was calling for the counties to raise up their militias and convene
in Carthage or Warsaw to lay siege on Nauvoo. Thomas Sharpe called for a civil war.
And all these Mormon settlements at the time, I mean, it was always hit and miss with the
Mormon settlements anyway, because, you know, we mentioned the River Rats last episode,
Mormons and the non-Mormons were constantly kind of at each other's throats all this time.
When it comes time to war, all these non-Mormon settlements, they know they're on the front
line of the civil war if it happens. And it's already starting to bleed into, you know,
lynch mobs and all, you know, all kinds of talk of lynching Mormons and non-Mormons on either side.
That makes me have to ask a follow-up question between both of you guys.
We keep saying this, but maybe you can just zoom in on this for one second. All of these
writings from Thomas Sharpe to John C. Bennett to this expositor going out far and wide,
all of these writings are adding up. I mean, it's like putting a bunch of fuel in the fireplace
and someone's going to spark it. It's going to catch fire at some point. And it's building up
a bigger anti-Mormon movement of people. I suspect that the continuous buildup of evidence
against these people is starting to build up. It hasn't convinced the federal government yet
to say, sure, we're sending you 10,000 soldiers, but it's getting close. So can we talk about
a little bit of that as we're going into this? Like, how much influence is all these writings
that have developed over time starting to have now? Yeah. So if people want to sign up on my
Patreon, I read through Bennett's book, Length Exposé, with my commentary in addition to it,
to add more context to discuss where he talks about. I mean, it's got to be more than 50%
of his book is just reprinted from older exposés. I mean, he adds so much information
of the inner workings in Navu, but all of his foundational information about the history of
Mormonism and Joseph Smith, all of it, he just shamelessly lived it from other exposés. From
the William Harris exposé, from the Iber Howe exposé, from numerous other exposés that preceded
him. And it's okay. It kind of sucks because Bennett has his own kind of quirky and snarky
writing style that I kind of enjoy. It causes me to belly laugh sometimes because it's
like so bad that it's good. His writing really is remarkable. It takes a Joseph Smith to take
down a Joseph Smith. That's exactly it. Definitely a second Joseph Smith. And Bennett's biography
is titled Saintly Scoundrel, and it's written by a believing Mormon. And I, well, I don't know if I
would actually call him that regardless. But when I introduced Bennett on my podcast, I called him
Kindred Scoundrel because he really was. Him and Joseph Smith were two peas in a pod.
And Emma hated it right from the start. Emma also had a good read on people. She was a lot smarter
than Joseph Smith in that way. But at the end of this, right, something that you're talking about,
Derek, is like all these exposés are going out and they're reaching a nationwide audience.
And newspapers that have headlines with Mormons in it are selling like crazy. People want to
know what's going on with the Mormons because it's a new phenomenon. It's unique and it's crazy
and it's exciting. It's the Kardashians, only with a huge mafia in militia.
And all the juiciest bits are just now starting to come to light publicly from Joseph Smith's
mouth. The fact that they're gods and you can become a god and the plural wife and the polygamy
thing, that just makes people lose their minds because they've been constantly aware that this
is going on. But everyone's like, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And now it's like, well, yeah,
okay, but, you know, it's coming to loosen. They can't deny it anymore. And yeah, people are just
chewing up their popcorn watching the show unfold. Yeah. And well, and Joe is smart enough to recognize
that like any press is good press, right? It doesn't matter what people are saying about you,
they're saying your name. And he's cool with it. Like he's able to utilize that leverage
to become a household name, which then when people say that he's running for president,
it's like, oh, the Mormon guy, the Mormon, Mohammed, whatever, he's running for president,
right? So he's gaining nationwide notoriety because of all of these, the articles and these
exposés that are written about him because he's such a polarizing and interesting phenomenon and
figure in this time of American history, which also fuels how successful the Mormon missionaries
are in Europe because they don't know anything about the Mormons. Right, right. Something
occurs to me too is that at the same time, simultaneously in this period, when he's talking
to his legion, he is puffing up Benito Mussolini style saying, we're Americans and this just
not going to stand. We're going to go and I'm I'm shooting my sword. Here it is. We're going.
It's going to be blood and you know, it's blood will be spilled or I'm going to the grave in
private. He's saying, we're fucked. He's going. Oh, what are we going to do? What are we going
to do? Yeah, it's going to be the end of us. He said that. We are ruined. We are ruined people.
And I don't know what to do. Yeah. So this brings me back to the laws. Okay. The exposé
is destroyed. The governor's on his way. He's not playing games. I mean, like he's not just
showing up like these few cops that are trying to arrest him or these few I guess you can call him
cops, you know what I mean? He knows this is got this has to end. And that is his mission.
And so we we focused on him for a second going to Carthage. We showed the map. We're like,
okay, it's coming the trinity of places. And but what what's going on with the laws? What's
going on with the anti polygamy sect? What's happening with these guys? They're stuck. They
can't sell the property. They're stuck. Are they about to like put these guys on a freaking cross
and burn them alive? I mean, like, you know what I mean? Like, what's about to happen here?
Well, you said it well, Derek, like Joe recognized that he stepped in it that the
destroying the the press was a big mistake. He realized it maybe during possibly just immediately
after the fact, probably during the riots that were going on, because he also had his constables
arrest some of the what who he termed or the aggressors in the riot, who were people who were
actually just trying to defend the private property from the, you know, the militia breaking in and
stealing the property and taking it out on the street and burning it, right? They were trying
to defend the building and he had those people arrested. And immediately after that, he declared
martial law in Navu, which if you are a military leader, and you don't have authorization from
the highest ranking government official that you answer to to declare martial law and you declare
martial law, that's treason, baby. That's that's the gallows for you. That is straight up treason.
So Joe declared martial law against the the wishes of all of his closest advisors that remained
in Navu at this time. Because remember, Navu is on a skeleton crew, the leadership is a skeleton
crew right now, because all the middle leadership, they they have, right? It's it's just it's it's
just the, you know, the rats will play at this point in time. So Joe declares martial law has
some of these these dissenters arrested. The law's official fosters in the Higbees had fled
to Carthage a couple days before because they knew they found out that the city council was
deliberating about what to do. They thought they were going to be arrested or something. So they
got out, they got to Carthage as fast as possible, where they signed their affidavits and sent those
off to Governor Ford. Right. So Joe declares martial law and these people are arrested and
the whole nation or the whole the whole side of this of the state blows up. Everybody goes crazy.
Thomas Sharpe calls for civil war. The governor says, I got a huge problem on my hands and he
hits Carthage. Joseph Smith declares martial law and says, you can't touch me. I don't care
what you're trying to arrest me with, you can't touch me. Joseph Smith agrees to have himself
arrested in Nauvoo for a municipal hearing to determine whether or not it was legal to have
the the exposer destroyed. And of course, the municipal court found out that he was not guilty
of anything. What a shock. What a shock. What a shock indeed. What a shining vindication for him.
Done and done. Done and done. Let's let's go home, boys. What are we getting for dinner?
I got to ask and the Mormon apologists that are reading this stuff, how do they respond?
Is this even the thing that even comes up? Yeah, yeah, yeah. So in deep Mormon circles,
they'll say that that because the Nauvoo charter had the they basically make the argument that
Joseph Smith made, which is to say that the the Nauvoo charter had an article about public
nuisances and the removal of them and the the rights of the mayor to command the city
marshal to remove public nuisances and that their declaration in the city council that the
Nauvoo exposer was a public nuisance is legal grounds to therefore destroy the exposer printing
press because they were nothing but lies about the beloved crop. It's true. They were they were
libelous and scandalous falsehoods, according to Joseph Smith, which to this day, there is a
standing $500 challenge to find a single thing in the Nauvoo exposer that isn't true, that is
that's a lie that has yet to be claimed because it's it's just true. The same in the allegation
they're just true. Yeah. That's what happens when you're your second in command, who's been in in
that position for two and a half years, goes off and writes his expose, like he tells the insider
scoop. And there's doesn't tell lies because he doesn't have to tell lies. And again,
another what if of history if Joseph had kept it in his pants just a little more
kept William Law on his side. Mormonism probably would have taken over the whole state. You know,
he was a solid. He was not a scoundrel. He was not a liar. He was a solid dude in his pocket.
He could it could have been a whole different thing. Yeah. And him and William Marx, too. I mean,
these were the Judas and the Brutus, right? William Marx was somebody who held a lot of sway
over the public people. He was the stake president, which is the intermediary between the apostles in
the 70s and the local bishops and the local leadership. The stake presidents preside over a
number of wards. And William Marx was a well known and very well respected guy and an anti-polygamous
just like William Law. And when I was mentioned earlier that to his army, he's second. Yeah,
we're going to get him. We're going to kick his ass. It's William Marx that he's saying,
what are we going to do? We're ruined. It's true. And he says this polygamy is going to destroy us.
What do we do? What do we do? What do we do? Yeah. And so in all this, right, like when you
declare martial law with this much public fervor around you and this much national attention,
more importantly, you have crossed the Rubicon. There is no going back. Yeah. History is written
from that time forward. And you have very little say in what actually happens in all of this.
So Governor Ford gets to Carthage. And like I said, he's going to operate with Carthage as his hub
for dealing with this newest Mormon insurrection. This is the third one of these under the under
Joseph Harris. Like this guy's got a rap sheet going, right? And he's come, he's come with an army
and he comes with an army that he wishes was much bigger. Yeah, he wanted it to be 10,000 men.
But the Congress was like, no, sorry, we don't have provisions to sustain you.
And one thing that Ford does write about in his memoir a lot is that he was so
scarce on provisions to sustain these militias that he had a hard time even keeping them encamped.
Which means it's like if he was granted 10,000 soldiers by the federal government,
that would have made it even harder than who knows what they would have had to do
to feed all those people, right? So there's a lot of a lot of really big what ifs and all this,
right? But yeah, so Ford gets to Carthage and he sends a letter to Joseph Smith and he says,
surrender. You got 72 hours, surrender, come to Carthage and answer for the crimes.
We heard that you inside of the riot. That's what we're charging you with.
Come to Carthage and answer for your crimes.
Joseph Smith sends back a letter just point by point refuting, refuting Governor Ford.
None of them are successful because the law is on Governor Ford's side in this.
Governor Ford said, Joseph, what you should have done is sued the expositor printers
for libel and slander, sue them. Then when you are able to prove that what they're printing his
lies, then you get an injunction that can then force them to cease printing. That's the right
way to go about this. And it just goes to show you that's where Joseph's head is in now. He's in
full authoritarian mode where it's like, oh, this is a problem. I come down and hard on
Old Testament style. He's probably tired of the, he knows, it's like,
kind of like back when I was an addict, drug addiction. I knew the end was coming. What I
meant is, either I'm going to die or I'm going to end up in jail. My run is about to end and I
know it. So I'm not thinking before I act. I'm literally just acting. And he's just acting.
He's not really thinking about anything. He's just acting. That's panic mode too.
And power is the ultimate drug. Power is the ultimate. Yeah, he's definitely an addict. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. And so in all this, right, like Ford is trying to convince him like,
you went about this the wrong way. You incited a riot. That's the charge. Come and stand trial
for it. So the Carthage magistrate issues a writ of arrest for Joseph Smith. And the guys who go
arrest him are people who have been involved with Joseph Smith before, back with the arrest in 1843
in Dixon and the arrest back in 1842 in Nauvoo. These guys have been involved with Joseph Smith
a number of times, the constable from Carthage. I'm blanking on his name. Of course I am. He
has, he is somebody who has carried a writ of arrest for Joseph Smith two other times to Nauvoo
without success in executing it. Those guys, I mean, my head is off to them because
every time they were going right into the belly of the beast, it's like how could they walk out alive
any one of those times? Yeah. And now, like that was a very realistic danger, right? But obviously,
like if you kill somebody who's coming in to arrest you, then like, then the gloves are off,
right? Like you're in, you're at war with the state, right? And Joe didn't want to do that because
at heart, he's also a coward. So the this guy goes to arrest Joseph Smith. Joseph Smith holds
another hearing in Nauvoo, hearing the charges of inciting a riot and found out, oh, there wasn't
actually a riot the night that the expositor was destroyed. There were a few people who were riotous,
but you know, there was no riots. Vindication, hooray. Vindication at last, absolutely. But then
some people start to trickle into Carthage from Nauvoo, and they start telling Governor Ford
their stories, which include I was arrested for being a part of the or being in the riot or just
for being there that night. I was not granted any rights. Other people who are just traveling through
Nauvoo, who were not known were arrested and detained, and they were not allowed free passage
until they signed a piece of paper that said, I'm not a spy. This is martial law. This is
Joseph Smith's martial law. He has his counsel of 50. It's, you know, it's all skeleton crew,
but he's got his militia. He's got his Nauvoo policemen that are watching the secret policeman,
the secret police. Yeah, the Danites who are watching the streets at night and patrolling.
In addition to this, he has his whistling and whittling brigade, which are just anywhere from
like 12 to 20 year olds, dudes just sitting on, you know, on porches and who are just whistling
and whittling, whistling and whittling. And if somebody comes into town, yeah, with their booby
knives, right? Somebody comes into town that they don't recognize. They just follow them around
whistling and whittling, whistling and whittling. Like it's terrifying.
Yeah. So these guys go to arrest him.
And Joe, he basically says, I'll be arrested by my own guys here, and we're going to have a
municipal hearing. So the guys, they're chased out of Nauvoo who go into arrest Joseph Smith,
they're chased out of Nauvoo. They returned to Carthage with Governor Ford and said, Hey, we tried.
He had his own hearing and he found out that he's not guilty. So Governor Ford sends another
letter and says, All right, you got 48 hours, gets to Carthage, or I'm going to bring the militia
and Nauvoo will be under siege. We'll consider you an open defiance of the law.
So Governor Ford laid out an ultimatum for Joseph Smith. And Joseph Smith,
oh, shit. This is about to go down, bro. The constables arrived to arrest him at eight o'clock
in the morning on June 24. That was the deadline that Governor Ford gave Joseph Smith the night
before, crossed the Mississippi into Iowa. He fled. He ran away. The governor gave him the
ultimatum. If you don't agree to be arrested, I'm going to put your city under siege. I have 4,000
militiamen here ready to siege Nauvoo. If you don't agree, we're coming in with guns.
Yeah. And Joseph Smith ran away. Jesus. Okay. So, oh my gosh. So here's another,
here's another, what if a history, what if he had just kept going and never come back.
That was the plan. That was the plan. So he had worked out with his boys that night as he was,
you know, he crossed it like two in the morning, right? He worked out with his boys that night.
Emma and Hiram's wife, Mary, you two are going to immediately depart for Washington, D.C.
We're going to send a couple of other people out west beyond the Rockies where you're going
to make an encampment where we'll come as soon as we're ready. Joseph Smith and Hiram Smith,
the brothers, are going to travel to D.C. to make their petition in front of the president
to try and tell him their side of the story, to try and get the president on their side
while Joseph is continuing to electioneer. And who knows how that situation, that interaction
will have gone out. And then the contingency plan was whatever happened in D.C., we always have the
fallback position of what's west of the Rockies that we will meet you there and we will begin the
new Mormon settlement. And we will command all of the Mormons to leave Navu. So there were
multiple contingency plans in all of this. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But meanwhile, everybody who's in Navu,
you are doomed. You are doomed, doomed, doomed, doomed. Yeah. That's what I was going to say.
So now he's made, he's not just saying this. This is almost like that scene off of Tombstone.
You know, I'll be your Huckleberry. He's letting him know like we're playing for blood. And if you
want to play for blood, I'm taking you out. But I said I'm going to siege this city. Your
Navu will be mine if you don't give in. He doesn't give in. He runs. Does he follow through on that
promise? I'm trying to see if I can find the vote that that Ford gave him. It's something
the effect of, you know, yeah, we're coming and there will be blood, you know.
It's very, very explicit. Thomas Ford is not pulling any punches. He's very clear that this,
like what you are doing, you are teetering on the edge of civil war. And if you do anything that
is aggressive or not in compliance with me, then that's, that's on you. The people of Navu will
suffer the consequences. So the constables return to Carthage without Joseph Smith and Governor
Ford. And if you can find it, Dave, please, please find it. I would, I would absolutely love to hear
it. So the constables arrive and Thomas Ford realizes the situation and he says, well, then
that's, that's it. So he brings together a basically a posse to go in and to arrest, but not a posse
that's large enough to actually, actually arrest Joseph Smith or not to, sorry, to lay siege to
the city. It's just, it's just a posse that's big enough that if there's a division of the Danites
there that they can hold them off or if there's something going on and they need to abscond with
the Prophet really quickly, they can, you know, throw him in a carriage tied up and get him out of
town really fast or whatever the case may be. But these people are thinking that they are going to
siege the city. Governor Ford has in his mind, my supposition is anyway, that he just needs to
meet with Joseph Smith and talk some sense into him right now. And if he gets that meeting with
Joseph Smith, then this is all going to resolve peaceably, but he doesn't want Joseph Smith to
call his hand because then he has to lay siege to the city because the city is in open defiance.
It is, it is a treasonous city. Did you find it there, Dave? No, no, no. So while he looks,
my point out something obvious that I think is interesting for the audience is Joseph Smith had
a choice. Turn yourself in, man, face the law, figure it out, you know, try and even wiggle your
way out of this. Find a way to defend yourself. Who knows, you might get a little bit of a punishment,
but who knows, someone could pay and help you somewhat with the law. I don't know, risk it,
you know, but for the sacrifice of your city. So literally, it was, you just turn yourself in,
not who's good, your family, your children, all your wives. I mean, look at all that he has,
like for me, if my family, it was you, if we take you, Derek, you're going to jail,
your family, your home, your children, everything's safe. Okay. But if you run, I'm taking your family,
I'm taking your home, like, you know, that risk there, I'm going to turn myself in or try to fight
or something. He ran, like he really said, screw your family, screw everyone. I'm going to do this
for my own selfish reasons. I found it. Sorry, Dave. Yeah. And you're not wrong. You're not wrong.
Ford said, if you, by refusing to submit, shall make it necessary to call it to militia,
I have great fears that your city will be destroyed and your people, many of them exterminated.
You know, the excitement of the public mind do not tempt it too far. And when Joseph,
who was hiding in a secret attic room, read this, he shook his head saying, there's no mercy,
there's no mercy here. And I am agreed, said, this shows as we get into their hands, we're dead
man. And they're not wrong. They're not wrong. Yeah. So that's a question. Would they have
killed them? You think they would have just killed them? Well, not the law to its thing or?
Oh, so don't, don't jump ahead. Derek, don't jump ahead of us. Right.
Let's just say it's understandable why he would want to get the hell out of there.
Big time. Yeah. Ford said something really important. You know the public sentiment,
right? Ford was like, he was brilliant. Like he was no idiot in all of this. And he knew that
the militias that he was bringing together from the nearby counties were comprised of people
who were non Mormons, who were neighbors of the Mormons and hated the Mormons.
That's what I was going to say. And he knew that his the power of his command only extends so far.
And that vigilanting justice is a very real threat. He wants to get Joseph Smith in a place
that everybody can agree is neutral territory, that they can have a neutral hearing.
And, and, and make sure that everything is done truly under the color of law so that everything
is is on the up and up so that nobody can dispute that he played favorites or whatever the case may
be. He wanted to ensure that this was fair and that this was a legal process because he knew
he was walking on nails in all of this. Yeah. So that he he captured that perfectly. And
throughout this entire fiasco through a replete throughout these like four chapters in his book,
The History of Illinois, he talks about how he can't trust his second in command.
He can't trust almost any of the men that he's commanding the thousands of people that he has
at his whim, who are in the, you know, camped out in the various cities nearby.
He knows that if any of them see Joseph Smith, they're going to, you know,
they're going to kill him. They're going to lynch him. So he has to be very careful and selective
of who he can trust in all of this, which is mostly comprised of people that he brought with him
from Springfield, his own personal detail. Right. And it's interesting. Another what if of history
is if he had gone in and attacked, that could have been the inner womanism right there because
there would have wiped out the their biggest stronghold of it. I don't know, bro, because they
have there. You're not wrong. You're not wrong. But it just goes to show you how volatile all this
is. It's like, you know, I was going to say, were there any bounties for his head? I mean,
were there anybody like underground bounties? You think people are saying, look, if you take
a Missouri would have paid you big money to drag him over the border. Yeah. Yeah. I don't. I've
never seen like a wanted poster or anything. I wouldn't be surprised. Right. Right. Yeah. Anyway,
I'm sure there were a bounties. Yeah. And it was a lot of do-it-yourself justice. I mean,
people didn't need to be paid to hate this guy for what he'd done. No, no, no. Absolutely not.
Yeah. So, you know, once again, to reiterate, Ford recognizes how volatile this is. And Joe
runs away and he surpasses the deadline that Thomas Ford gave him and said,
your city's going to be under siege. But what happens during that time? You know, Joseph Smith
crosses the Mississippi into Iowa. It's actually, he didn't actually get into Iowa, where he did
cross over to is, let me see if I can try and find it here. Share it with us. There's a little,
I know I'm trying to find it. I think maybe that's it. So I'm going to screen share really quickly.
Okay. And I think this is it. But he stayed on an island in between. Yeah, there it is. There's
Fort Madison. Right. So here's Nauvoo. All right. And a little ways up the Mississippi,
we have this little tiny island right here. And this is where he spent the night. Right here
before getting into Fort Madison, which this was the Iowa territory. And this was all part of
the Mormon purchased territory was known as the half breed tract that they purchased
from land that was stolen from natives. So he hides on that little island and he receives a letter
from his wife. And yeah, they please. They cross, he sends word to Emma, and she writes back and says,
with Porter Rockwell as the messenger with going back and forth because he goes back for the horses
and to, oh, that's the wrong quote. Where's his wife at? Is his wife in Nauvoo? She's still it.
She's at the Nauvoo house or the Nauvoo mansion. Yep. Okay. That's good context. So many, so many
quotes. This is a really complicated time. Well, basically, she says, you always said you would
stick by the church by the church. When trouble comes, you're the first leave. What shall I tell
them? And for whatever reason, what she said, cut him straight to his heart. And he said,
yeah, okay, we're going to turn around and come back. In addition to that, and, and I want to,
I want to prebut this argument, a lot of people will say that it's because of the letter that Emma
wrote that caused Joseph Smith to cross back across Mississippi and give himself up. I think it has
a bit to do with her letter. We don't have the text of the actual letter. We have a reminiscence from
somebody who was there when the letter was read out to Joseph Smith. So I think more of it came
from the messengers who said, everybody is calling you a coward. You know, when the shepherd
abandons his flock, who is there to defend them from the wolves, they're, they're very emphatic
that what you're doing is yellow. This is pure cowardice. How dare you abandon your people?
And at that point, Joseph turns to his older brother, Hiram, and says, what do we do? And
that's when Hiram says, as surely as we give ourselves up, we're dead. Yeah. Yeah. And they
resolve to come back to Nauvoo and give themselves up. And they did. And maybe it's just one more
case of, well, we've been in worse straits before. We've always gotten out of it. Yeah. We haven't
been it yet. Honestly, that guy had more lives than a cat. You know, I want to, I want to bring
this. I want to bring this image up because I think this is powerful in light of where we're
actually at at this point. And, and sorry, I'm, it's like that. But here you have Joseph Smith
with his sword. Okay. You have his militia. You have these, I believe these are the arresting
men that are trying to arrest him. Are we at this moment? And is this prior to him running away? I
mean, that is this very morning. This image is portraying this very morning. He comes back and
he gives a public address. And it is known as the last public address of the Prophet Joseph Smith.
That is this image. Now, when we started this series, I talked about the Joseph Smith that
Mormons are taught. He's a Joseph Smith who's, you know, you know, I'm gonna, I'm gonna find this.
I'm gonna, I'm gonna redo this because this is the Joseph Smith that Mormons are taught about.
And I'm gonna share a few images here because this is what I was taught in church. This is who I
revered. This is who I was taught was the Prophet Joseph Smith, a studious over his gold plates.
Of course, we can't find, oh yeah, reading from his Bible here, the gold plates, you know, Joseph
Smith, the one true Prophet. But now, after what, 18 parts that were in this series, we finally have
context for this image, the last public address of the Prophet Joseph Smith. He gave this with
those constables right there, waiting to arrest him, talking about how all of this is just persecution.
Yeah. This is the real Joseph Smith. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And I wonder, what did he say in this speech?
Do we have his recorded speech? Do we know an idea of what he says? Maybe a summary?
We do. I believe we do. I'm glad that. This is important, man. Yeah.
He says, we're American citizens. We live upon a soil for the liberties of which our
fathers periled their lives and spilt their blood upon the battlefield. Those rights so dearly
purchased shall not be disgracefully trodden underfoot by lawless marauders without at least a
noble effort on our part to sustain our liberties. Will you stand by me to the death? The thousands
arrayed beneath him stiff and serious in their well-ordered ranks, shouted in unison a thunderous eye.
It is well. If you had not done it, I would have gone out there. He swept his arm to the west,
and I would have raised up a mightier people. Raised up a mightier people. Doesn't that just
say so much about this guy? That's right on the Hitler playbook. He draws his sword from the
scabbard, thrusts at heavenward, and shouted in a voice saying, I call God and his angels to
witness that I have unsheathed my sword with a firm and unalterable determination that this
people shall have their legal rights and be protected from mob violence, or my blood shall
be spilt upon the ground like water and my body consigned to the silent tomb.
Geez. Oh, what did I do? Oh, there you go. Yeah, he's dressed like Napoleon for nothing. He's
serious. That's this morning. He comes back from having his tail between his legs. He's scared.
Now he comes back going, I got to do something. Historically, I'm going to go out looking like
a, you know what, he comes back, his brother's right next to him, which makes the context of
why his brother's right there from the beginning of this episode, this whole series you were talking
about. That's his brother. And I'm like, and in this series, I'm sure his brother played a lot
more roles. But the thing is, is like, this really makes his brother stand out why he's right next
to him on stage. Thick and thin, baby. What is thicker than water? How did they all know to
come out for the address? You know, like, was everyone anticipating and saw him coming? Was
there like a Jesus coming back to Jerusalem with palm trees dropping on the ground type thing?
The drum beats are, I mean, there's an army coming after them. No one's not aware of this
thing going on. Yeah, they are. And martial law is still declared, right? Like the, the, the,
Nauvoo Legion is out in force, patrolling at night, right? They, they are ready for war. And
they, he begins, he commands his guys to start building breastwork around the city as well.
And to dig ditches and trenches, like getting ready for some trench warfare, right? They start,
they start fortifying the city this morning. This is a very morning that he agrees to surrender.
In person, he's terrified and has no idea what they're going to do. But once he gets on that
stage, boom, it's all Napoleon time. It's like, yeah, exactly. This is all declared by God. And
he's, you know, if God be with us, who can be against us, you know? And, and really, how,
how perfect is it that the gun manufacturer that he has their browning guns, the guns themselves
have holiness to the Lord inscribed on them. And there you go. How damn perfect. That's what I'm,
like this whole thing, before we leave this picture historically, what's, what is Governor
Thomas? Is it Thomas? Yeah. Yeah. What is he thinking? What, what, what right here? Because
we're getting close to the end. Yeah. What's going on in history right here? Like this day,
is there other stuff happening right now? Nobody's blinking. Nobody's backing down.
The guns are closing in on each other. Yeah. Well, Joe blinked. Actually, in this, Joe,
once he and Hiram realized that they need to surrender this, he gives his public address,
and then he sends, he expedites a letter to Governor Ford, because Joe had missed the
deadline that Governor Ford set. Joe sent a letter to Governor Ford saying basically like,
hey, we missed the deadline. Sorry about that. On my way, OMW, BRB, totes to totes cool.
I love the difference between the public Joseph in this time and the pride is terrified Joseph.
Yes. So good. Is that a deal? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. No, no, it's okay. It's all right. Hot in here.
So while Thomas Ford is gathering up his divisions to begin the siege of Nauvoo,
he receives this letter that is actually Joe saying, I'm going to surrender.
But Thomas Ford, once again, he's not an idiot in this, and he puts out a couple conditions. He
says, okay, come in with this small posse, I'll send another posse to arrest you. Come in with
them. Don't bring any of your boys. It's just you and Hiram and the other 17 men that are charged
with the inciting riot. Just you guys, no big posse, no legionnaires, no policemen, no, no,
no, no, none of that. And also disband the Nauvoo Legion. You have to disband the Nauvoo Legion.
And one thing that's important here in the Nauvoo Charter, the commander and chief of the Nauvoo
Legion is the governor of the state. So if the governor is giving orders to the Nauvoo Legion,
they supersede Joseph Smith's orders. That's fine in theory. But when these people are all
sycophants and enablers of Joseph Smith, they're not going to side with the guy who's trying to
arrest their their supreme leader, right? It's very Game of Thrones this way. You've got it's
very War of the Roses. You've got all these little fiefdoms, right? And, you know, yes,
but you've got the law on your side, but you'll be dead right if you try to enforce it.
Right. And what good are the laws if, you know, enforcing them gets you killed when you're a governor
of a state, right? And similarly from Joseph Smith's perspective, like, what what kind of a
military leader are you that you're riling your people up and then you go surrender yourself?
Yeah, exactly. And you've spent the last, like, three months talking about treason is going to
happen and that, you know, our our rights are being infringed on. This is rhetoric you crafted
back when you committed treason the first time back in 1834, when you marched with a militia
from Kirtland to Missouri to try and liberate Zion, right? Like, this is rhetoric that you
have crafted for years and you are now becoming the victim of your own success, Joseph Smith,
you deserve this big time. So what does the church say? What do the apologists say right here?
Are they just offline and sinker buying Joseph's rhetoric?
Largely, they stick with with his side of the story here. I don't because he's he's he is
openly against the laws and the Constitution. I don't side with Joseph Smith and basically
anything. And he's, you know, like, there's there's there's only a few ways to interpret the
evidence that's available to us here. Joseph Smith was the aggressor. Joseph Smith was the one
committing treason. He was the one who declared martial law. He's the one who caused the novel
exposure to be burned. He was the one who did all the actions that cause the novel exposure to be
published in the first place. But isn't it fair to say that the way it's portrayed now after two
centuries of hagiography is that, oh, he was very Jesuslike. He's persecuted. He's, you know,
they're constantly in, you know, enemies of the church or constantly going after the church for
no good reason because the church, right? No, no, no. Yeah, he died for his beliefs, right? And
that's how this all ends is he is a prophet who died, who was martyred for his beliefs. And that's
that's the rhetoric. Yeah. And the fact that he did come back and put himself forward like a lamb
to the slaughter. Yeah. And he said that to a few people as well. I'm going like a land of
he knew he was dead. He knew it. Yeah. So this makes me it begs the question with the law brothers
and the anti polygamist group. When Joseph Smith shows back up, they're not on his side.
They're probably not even listening to what this guy's saying or at least believing it.
Am I right or wrong? I mean, it sounds like they're like, dude, you're you're just nothing
but trouble. We need to get rid of you. Yeah, they any idea of reconciliation with Joseph Smith,
that long sail away ship is sailed. Yeah, there was none of that. No, that was not going to happen.
So Joseph Smith meets with this arresting posse. And I think this is the 24th of June,
if my memory is serving correctly. This is only three days after Ford even arrived in Carthage,
and he's able to get an arrest. Only three days. It's really remarkable how well Thomas Ford was
able to craft this situation and work with the tools given to him. So he he gets to the halfway
point between Navu and Carthage. And that's where he meets the arresting posse. The arresting posse
is like, Hey, we told you not to bring your boys. What the hell's going on here? Because Joe showed
up with a whole bunch of people. He had in addition to the 17 guys who were all charged with inciting
a riot, he had a small platoon, a small division of the Danites that were there to guard him to
be his personal bodyguards. Yeah. And he said, no, angles always pushing the limits. Yep. Yep.
So they said, Okay, this is, you know, we're not going to bring you and your whole posse into
Carthage. But hey, here's a letter from Thomas Ford about your directions. And you are to not
only disband the Navu Legion, but you're also supposed to return the state issued arms that
the Legion was using. So not only is Governor Ford saying, Yeah, we got to disband this this
basically a rogue militia, but we got to we got to take their teeth at what you do. We got to make
sure that if they do reband themselves, that they don't have as much firepower. So Joe accompanies
this posse back into Navu. And they seize something like 60 stands of arms of state owned arms,
which is to say that that's enough to that's not even enough to supply like 50 dudes.
But it's their state owned arms. And the documenting and the tracking of these guns,
it's not that great. And also, guns are pretty cheap. They're real cheap at this time. They're
real cheap now. So stop these guys from bringing their own rifles from home and reforming us as
their own rogue militia after being disbanded by the governor plus at the Browning. So
make their own. Yeah. And one thing notable in all this too is part of the economy. Navu's economy
was largely a barter system at this time. And Browning would make some of these guns and donate
them to the temple building committee. And people would work on the Navu temple and earn temple
vouchers that they would then they could then use to purchase the firearms that Browning had
donated to the temple building. Yeah, it's a very serious economy, very interesting. Yeah,
it's like working for coupons. Yeah. Yeah, bring your coupons. Yeah. Yeah. What happens now? I get
they give the weapons up. So they the they give their weapons up. The the these this arresting
party puts all the weapons into a carriage and they return to Carthage. They arrive something
like 1130 at night on the day that Governor Ford said this is your last chance to arrive.
And Joseph Smith, Hiram Smith and 17 of his buddies, they arrive in Carthage with something
like 1300 militiamen and camped in that little town in handcuffs. And Joseph and Hiram Smith
are arrested. Wow. June 24th. Put a stake in there for a fork in that a steak, a pin,
a needle, a freaking something. Yeah, we go ahead, Dave. Sorry. Well, I was gonna say for what it's
worth. In the other book I found Emma's quote, she said, you always said if the church would stick
to you, you would stick to the church. But now trouble comes and you are the first to run. That's
what you did. Yeah. Yeah, that's so we have the prophet is in a anti Mormon area. Yeah,
with people who aren't very friendly with him. And the militiamen who are guarding his life
want to kill him just as much as the militias outside. So it's not a good, not a good sitch
for our heroes. And if we're considering like the pathway of any demagogue or any tyrant throughout
history, like, if you're able to separate them from their army and get them into custody away
from their militia, that's when they are most vulnerable, right? And not only was Joseph Smith
separated from his militia, but his militia had been disbanded by order of the governor.
And that's, that's, that's scary. That's scary. And notably as well, he was only arrested at this
point charge on the charges of inciting a riot. They still had yet to determine if they were
going to charge him for treason for declaring martial law and for counterfeiting, because
that's in all of this mix as well. Counterfeit money is a huge part that's causing a lot of the
friction between the Mormons and the non Mormons. And in all of this, like that with that whole
counterfeiting thing, that's going to make a couple of recurrences throughout the things that
we're going to discuss through the rest of the series. Yeah. Funny, the Mormon missionaries
knocking my door never mentioned that part. Don't weird. Yeah, weird. Counterfeit money, huh? I'll
be darned. Yeah. So Joseph Smith arrives and Thomas Ford is brilliant in all of this. I like,
I step back, you know, reading through his, his memoir of the whole thing and, and his side of
the story. It's like, man, give this guy a medal. This dude knew what he was doing. He knew how to
handle this situation and he knew what to do to help humanize these monsters. So the very first
thing that Thomas Ford did when Joseph and Hiram Smith arrived in custody of the constables,
when Thomas Ford basically took custody of these men, he had all of the militiamen line up in a
division, you know, in, in, you know, formation and he walked Joseph and Hiram Smith down the
lines of all of these militiamen and introduced them personally to each of the men. And he called them
Lieutenant General Joseph Smith and Brigadier General Hiram Smith. He called them by their
military designations. He humanized like most of these people had never actually seen Joseph Smith.
They didn't know what he looked like. They just knew that they hated him because he was the Mormon,
the Mormon prophet, the supreme commander, this tyrant. Thomas Ford did this exercise in my mind,
I think, to humanize to these men who these people truly are that, yeah, these people may live as
villains who haunt your nightmares and steal your money and are coming after your wives and your kids.
But look, they're living, breathing human beings just like each and every one of you. Not only that,
they are recognized members of the state militia. They are superior officers to you and you will
treat them as such. And I admire the shit out of that. Yeah. And if he had got, if he had mishandled
this in any way at any stage of this, there would have been a bloodbath. A bloodbath. Absolutely.
Before we jump off this rock here and get into the next episode, I have to ask,
Brigham Young, leaders like that, where are they at in all of this?
They're in the East. They're electioneering for Joseph Smith. Even Sidney Rigdon. So Sidney Rigdon,
I call him Hingepin Rigdon. He's been with the church from the very beginning.
The success of it hinged on this guy. When he learned that the Navu Expositor was about to be
published, he even got out of town. The church in Navu is a skeleton crew because all of the
apostles, a lot of the 70, a lot of the middle leadership of the church, they are out helping
Joseph Smith get elected to be president and they don't even hear about the Navu Expositor
until after Joe and Hiram are laying dead. News does not travel any faster than a horse in this
time. It's wild to think about how fast this is moving now and spinning out of control.
There's nothing that they could do in all of this. I will point out that one person who's in the
highest leadership, one of the apostles who remained in Navu to help Joseph Smith, partially
because he was one of the primary scribes for Joseph Smith, also partially because he was one
of Joe's handlers who was smart and diplomatic, is Willard Richards. Willard Richards is a cousin
of Brigham Young and who went on to be Brigham Young's personal secretary and one of his closest
confidants in Utah. Willard Richards remained in Navu for all of this and he's somebody who was
writing a lot of the letters and exchanging letter exchanges with Governor Ford and with
other people. Notable in this as well, in the Outer Lying Territories, they're also sharing
letters with Joseph Smith and leadership like, what do we do? They're asking for us to surrender
our guns and to help get you arrested. Do we come in and attack or what do we do? Joseph
sends letters back to all of these to his Uncle John, to Isaac Morley, to other military commanders,
like, just ready yourselves, don't give up your guns when the fight breaks out, we're going to
knee you on the flank. So he's very aware that he's gearing up for civil war and that, regardless
of what happens in Carthage, he thinks he's going to get out of this and he says, I'm going like
a lamb to the slaughter, but his actions over the next few days reveal that he very much thinks he's
going to get out of this whole situation alive. And when that happens, when he escapes jail again,
he's not going to, he's not going to sit down. He's not just going to, you know, flee to a different
town. He's going to run for rest again, baby. This is, yeah, this is not over. Not over. Not over
in his mind. Yeah. Ladies and gentlemen, this is going to get bad. Bryce, David, I can't let you
keep going because this is, this is getting real. So I'm excited to see what happens. Guys, show us
some love. Go in the Patreon. All three of us on screen have a Patreon. You guys can help support
us. Make sure you guys go check out the Naked Mormonism podcast. You can actually see him naked on
there for you ladies. Anybody? Well, yeah, remember the welcome. Yeah, I'm just. He has to keep his
Mormon underwear on, of course. That's what Mormon naked Mormonism is. Nothing but your underwear.
Yeah, that's interesting. That's interesting. I never really thought about the underwear and
then the naked Mormonism thing. Anyway, that's interesting. Yeah. And then also David Fitzgerald,
author of the Complete Heretics Guide to Western Religion, The Mormons. Make sure you guys get
it. It's book one. I did and I actually like didn't have to look on my computer to try and like
figure that out. There's the picture. He's got other books too. He's an author. He's a public
speaker. He does all sorts of stuff and you guys can help this dinosaur, you know, make it.
I got to call it what it is. I'm super excited. I can't wait to find out what's going to happen.
We already know to some degree what happened to Joseph Smith, but the leading up events,
you're not going to hear it like this anywhere else unless you read a book.
And I can say the behind the scenes of what we're about to talk about next episode,
even the Mormons don't know for the most part, but you'll know.
Well, don't forget, ladies and gentlemen, we are MythVision.
I have hundreds of videos on the Patreon, become a patron and get early access to
everything I ever launched. Join the Twitter. I've got a Discord chat room. You guys can help
grow the community. One time PayPal or Cash App. If you want to help us out with a donation
and join our Facebook groups, man, let's make this thing happen.
