For example, Josephus writes his life, and that would fit fine into one volume, no problem.
He writes his work against Apion, it's a long work, it needs two volumes.
He writes the Jewish war, seven volumes.
He writes the Jewish antiquities, 20 volumes, 20 scrolls.
That's all that's going on.
Luke has a long gospel.
It's the story of how the Holy Spirit has moved headquarters from Jerusalem, the old
Holy City, to Rome as the new Holy City.
And that's why the Holy Spirit is guiding everything as Jesus comes from Galilee to
Jerusalem, volume one, then from Jerusalem to Rome, volume two, ends in Rome.
The last great phrase is, and so we came to Rome.
Dom, I have absolutely enjoyed every moment of this book.
It's been educational, both within the canon of Scripture and outside, things that we need
to know in order to better grasp the zeitgeist of the time.
And blown away by the sibling oracles, Nero's resurrection.
But one thing that really got me thinking was when I recently read Suetonius and the
Lives of the Caesars.
And I was reading this life of this man that we call Caesar Augustus.
He had this birth narrative.
He had a portents of his soon coming with a star.
It was Jesus all over again.
And I said, what the heck is going on?
And you mentioned Luke Axe and talking about this, what seems to be an accommodation you
call, or you call it something like an accommodation, where they're heading in this direction of
cooperating with Rome.
But literature, as you spoke, Revelation is trying to go against that.
So you have two Christianities already in the New Testament.
And I thought to myself, holy smokes, I thought that Luke Axe was completely Pro-Roman.
And in one way it is, but then it does this weird subordination to the Caesar Augustus
by making Jesus that figure.
So it's Pro-Roman and anti-Roman in the same tone in a way.
What's going on in Luke Axe?
Tell me, I'm excited to hear what you have to say.
All right.
Let me begin by using the term Luke Axe.
Because everyone knows, if you're reading your New Testament, you have the Gospel according
to Luke, and then you have John, and then you have the Acts of the Apostles.
So the consensus of scholarship is, of course, that those who are written by the same person,
we will call them Luke for the moment.
Just call them Luke.
Imagine quotation marks on them.
We don't know who it was, but they're written by the same person.
And you can tell that because at the beginning, the same sponsor on each is to each person.
Okay.
Here's the question.
Did, let us say, Luke write as it were, the Gospel according to Luke?
And it was a great success.
And people said to his publisher, maybe, you know, you should write a sequel.
Bring it up to date.
You brought it up to the resurrection of Jesus, the ascension of Jesus.
So now let's bring it up, you know, another 30 years.
You did 30 years, bring it up another 30 years.
So you wrote a sequel.
And obviously in the sequel, you can make links back, but in the sequel, you can't make
links forward.
So in other words, if you have a movie called Jaws and then Jaws 2, you can make Jaws 2
look back at Jaws 1, but it wasn't Jaws 1 because we weren't planning Jaws 2.
So anyway, my question is, are we dealing with a sequel that can look back, or are we
dealing with a two-volume book that was conceived, planned, structured, executed, written, published
as a two-volume book?
And Luke would be screaming today to find out that it was split into two and separated
and given new names when they were assembling the New Testament.
Now, most people would say, well, that's a weird idea.
No, wait a minute.
The Latin word volumen, that gives us our word volume, is a scroll.
The Latin word for a scroll.
So there's logistics and mechanics involved here.
If you want to write, say, the Gospel of Mark or the Gospel of Matthew or the Gospel according
to John, you can fit that in one scroll.
It's around 15,000 words of Greek, something like that.
That fits well in one scroll.
Suppose you want to write a longer story, a longer Gospel.
Suppose there's maybe 40,000 words or something.
You're going to need two scrolls.
It's just mechanics.
It's as simple as if I went to my editor at Harper One and said, I have this marvelous
idea for a thousand-page book.
And if he didn't say, get out of my face.
If he said to me, OK, he would say, we have to have two volumes.
We'll do a box set, maybe.
It's mechanics.
For example, Josephus writes his life, and that would fit fine into one volume, no problem.
He writes his work against Apion.
It's a long work.
It needs two volumes.
He writes the Jewish war, seven volumes.
He writes the Jewish antiquities, 20 volumes.
20 scrolls.
That's all that's going on.
Luke has a long Gospel.
It's the story of how the Holy Spirit has moved headquarters from Jerusalem, the old
Holy City, to Rome as the new Holy City.
And that's why the Holy Spirit is guiding everything as Jesus comes from Galilee to
Jerusalem, volume one, then from Jerusalem to Rome, volume two, ends in Rome.
The last great phrase is, and so we came to Rome.
Now, for that he needs two volumes.
What I did in the book was show all the evidence in the first volume, all of them,
looking forward to the second.
Things that are in the first volume that only makes sense if you know that Luke is
already planning volume two and he's already looking this way.
So that's my argument.
If you read the Gospel according to Luke, as one very eminent Jewish scholar did, and
say, this is the most Jewish text in the New Testament, because see, they all end up in
Luke 24, they all end up sort of in the temple.
Yeah, but if you're actually reading it as the swivel point between two volumes, they're
in the temple to start again in volume two and off the go towards Rome.
It's like the temple is like a railway station.
They're not settling down there.
That's the pivot.
Jerusalem is the pivot.
So I'm saying, if you read the Gospel according to Luke alone, or the Acts of the Apostles
alone, you've destroyed the intention of the author and the possibility of reading it
right.
You ended up with all sorts of contradictions.
Because when he writes the first volume, he's copying Mark.
So Mark is controlling the story, and he also has another source that we call Q, Gospel
according to Q, that's a separate issue, but he's much more constrained.
But in the second volume, he's much freer to work.
He's working with sources, of course, but the Gospel according to Luke is the good news
of how the Holy Spirit has changed headquarters, the New Holy City.
That is pro-Roman.
In the sense at least that Luke is the one, in the whole New Testament, Luke is the only
one who got it right, the only one who saw the future.
He didn't see Constantine coming down the road, I'm sure, but he took the first step
towards Constantine.
He says in a word, we can we can negotiate the Roman Empire.
It's going to have to give, oh yeah, oh, it's going to have to give.
No, we're not going to worship Caesar.
No, no, there'll be theological gifts, but we'll have to give too.
So every Roman official, for example, that ever meets Jesus or Paul, exculpates them
completely.
They're all innocent.
There's a perfect storm of innocence.
But unfortunately, these people always end up dead.
So how do, how does Pilate keep exculpating Jesus and Jesus ends up dead?
Maybe it's the evil Jews.
Maybe it's the fault of the Jews.
So read Luke acts very, very, very carefully, especially about the Jews or the Roman because
Luke is saying a culturation is possible, a culturation is necessary, accommodation
is inevitable.
And that's not the vision of Jesus.
Jesus is much more careful.
That's why Jesus ends up dead.
This is one of the wonderful parts of your book that I enjoyed.
I'm reading Luke.
Luke is already telling you the future.
Why, in my opinion, and I'd love to get your thoughts is Luke is writing when this stuff
is actually taking place.
So for example, the accommodation is taking place not because Jews have to necessarily
accommodate to what the empire is.
We have a Gentile Christianity, probably predominantly Gentile now by the time Luke's
right or whoever the author we call Luke is.
So here we are.
We have to paint another picture.
This picture can't be what we've seen earlier in Mark or Paul or what we had envisioned
the earliest Jewish Christianity like Paula Fredrickson would write when Christians were
Jews.
Yes.
So here we are.
We're dealing with a Gentile majority, maybe at this point, maybe.
And I'm seeing that this mission to Rome, Rome being the new city, I love that because
I was recently learning from a friend, Michael Koshnosh, PhD, he's a student of Dennis MacDonald.
And he was writing how in Acts 9, you see this Tabitha, who's the female who ends up
dying in his resurrections.
On Acts 9, writer for Paul is converted, or maybe conversion is not a good word, but
he is now flipped sides.
He's on the Jesus team, and he resurrects this girl, then he resurrects this guy, or
not resurrects, he heals a guy, then Cornelius comes on the scene.
And the whole point is this man's name was Aeneid.
And anyone like Michael Koshnosh said, when you see the name Aeneid, he did this word
search.
He went beyond Purvo.
For those who aren't sure, Richard Purvo wrote the hermenean commentary and Purvo just kind
of glossed right over it and kind of didn't really spend much time on this.
But the name Aeneid is like saying, Michael Jordan, you know it means basketball.
Well, Aeneid, you know it means Rome.
And so he says like, this shift is clear right here in Acts 9.
The mission becomes Rome, like so clear, even though it's already hinted at before.
It's like, we're going to Rome and there is no stopping what's going to happen.
God starts making clean, what was once unclean, it's over.
I thought your book just like it cooperated with that idea so well that it made me go,
what are we looking at?
And Purvo said in his commentary, I want to get your comment, sorry for rambling, Purvo
said in his commentary at the inn that Paul may in this where he's imprisoned, but he's
free in a sense, Paul sounds like in Acts, like he's not even a Jew anymore.
Like he's almost like, he's almost getting away from being a Jew in the language it sounds
like.
Now this would be the author, not Paul himself, but do you see something like that happening
in Luke Acts?
I don't think you can write about Paul and just keep dipping into Luke Acts as if it
was a buffet, where you could take what you want, don't take what you.
I think what I did myself at least in thinking about Paul, I put Paul aside from the whole
year, focus on Luke Acts, forget Paul, he's just a character in Luke Acts, I don't have
the letters, I don't know nothing about Paul, try to clean out my mind because I wanted
to know what is Luke Acts up to?
What is he up to?
For example, why is it important to him that Paul is never the apostle of the Gentiles?
He's not even an apostle, he's stung by light, he doesn't see Jesus, Paul insists I saw
Jesus, well he can't see Jesus if he is stung by the light and blinded.
Why is he de-apostalizing him as a word?
What's he up to?
So for example, Cornelius, of course, the first person who converts as a pure Gentile
is Peter, not Paul, who's the apostle of the Gentiles for Luke Acts?
And it's important, Cornelius is a centurion, you lose your centurions, you've lost the
army.
It's not accidental that it's a centurion under the cross, there will never be a centurion
doing such a job.
But when the centurion goes over, you've lost the drill sergeant, you've lost the army,
you've lost the legions as a word.
But let me focus for a second on a profile of Luke Acts.
I'm not imagining Luke as anyone, he's just a codename, but I'm reading Luke Acts to
try and write a profile of the author internally.
And I'm convinced that Luke Acts was a God-worshipper, or a God-fearer, or maybe even a God-lover.
And this term is terribly important, because a lot of people don't understand what it is.
In the first century, there were, of course, Jews and Gentiles.
We know that.
Nice, easy division, Jews and those who weren't.
No, there was an in-between group that attended the synagogue, accepted the Jewish God, because
a lot of intelligent people who looked at the Roman gods at Jupiter, who was like a
serial rapist, to be a bit honest.
They were abusing power massively, who said there has to be a God beyond the gods.
The gods are some kind of little, whatever, but there has to be a God beyond the gods.
And we're very sympathetic to the Jewish God.
Now, if I'm a male Gentile God-worshipper, I have no intention of getting circumcised.
That's the big ouch.
No way am I getting circumcised.
But yes, I like the Jewish God.
I attend the synagogue.
I like Jewish morality, actually.
And maybe I really like Jewish economic contacts as well.
So all of this is a package deal.
I'm not trying to make a sound as if it's just financial.
It's a package deal.
I'm a God-worshipper, and we know of them, for example, at Aphrodisias, where there's
a huge number of them, a huge percentage, and they're members of the council.
They're important people.
So I now imagine like an island in the diaspora, an island of Judaism surrounded by a sea
of Gentiles and pagans, but a kind of a coral reef around it of God-worshippers.
Very important for the defense of Judaism.
I think that's what Paul did.
I keep saying Paul said that's what Luke is.
And that's why he's the only one who bothers using terms like his sponsor is a God-lower,
may well be a God-worshipper, God for any term you want, for this in-between group.
And I love theophilus for the audience.
Exactly.
I mean, they're an in-between group.
They have one leg solidly in Romanism, and one leg solidly in Judaism, in Greek, the
Greek Judaism.
Now, by the way, none of this would apply to a woman.
If a woman wanted to be Jewish or a God-worshipper, how could you tell?
She controls the kitchen in any case.
The circumcision is irrelevant.
So I'm not surprised that in Luke acts there's more women that seem to be sort of like Lydia
God-worshippers or God-fearers.
That makes sense to me.
So I think that's who Luke is, and maybe that's who he's writing for.
Because what we're facing here is something we have to think about.
I put it one time in an earlier book.
The reason that Paul and express thunders along so fast, and he can say after 20 years
I'm finished with the East, I'm off to Spain.
He didn't have to lay track.
Jewish missionaries had laid down the God-worshipper, God-fearer track.
So he didn't have to start with pure pagans, and they said, huh, a new God, one more?
Oh, good.
I like God.
Tell us about Yahweh.
I love God.
I'm all in favor of Him.
One more.
No, no, no.
He's the only God.
What?
I wouldn't know what you're talking about.
There's only one God?
That makes no sense.
That would be like Gossus running the whole empire out by himself.
One God.
Now, if you're talking to a God-worshipper, and you're saying now you can be a full member
of the people of God, and no, you don't have to be circumcised, you males.
Ah, I'm listening.
Tell me more about this Messiah.
I know about the Messiah, because I know the Greek Bible.
I'm a God-worshipper.
I know all about that.
In fact, I know about the Greek Bible better than some of my Jewish friends, who all attend
the synagogue, but never study it.
So I'm writing a profile of Luke.
He knows his Judaism well.
And you would say he's not a Jew.
He is absolutely not a Jew.
He's a God-worshipper.
Well, I shouldn't say nobody.
But he knows the Jewish Bible, the Greek Bible, the Septuagint, let's say, as well as anyone.
And he has one leg firmly in Judaism, and one leg firmly in Romanism, let's call it.
And he's exactly the swivel person.
It's terribly important for me that we write a profile of Luke in terms of Luke acts before
you get into Paul.
So when I get in there, then, and I read, for example, all of these Romans exculpating
right and left, no, I can't take historically the Galio at current.
Of course he was at current.
Of course we can date the time.
But no, the Galio said, this is some Jewish squabble, I have nothing to do with anything
about Rome.
I don't think that works.
No.
Any Roman official would say, how come you guys are always in court?
Every time I hear about you guys, you're causing trouble.
Oh, no, it's not us.
It's the Jews that are causing trouble.
It's those greedy Gentiles.
It's not us.
Yeah, but my town was peaceful before you guys came, and now there's all sorts of turmoil.
Get out of here, or I'll put you in jail.
That's the way a comforted Roman official would have handled troubles with Jewish Christians
or Gentile Christians or in-betweens.
So you have to understand Luke acts in its own integrity, in its own authorial purpose,
literary strategy.
Then you can kind of ask about Paul in there.
Otherwise, Luke acts as simply a quarry that you're carving Pauline stones out of.
And you'll end up with an autobiography of Paul, which is not history, not myth, fiction.
Fiction.
And you should, at the front, say, based on a fact, but some characters, some incidents,
and some observations have been invented for dramatic purpose.
You shouldn't write a biography of Paul out of Luke acts.
You shouldn't.
So dating Luke acts, where would you put it in terms of your dating?
Are you with Steve Mason in suggesting it's later, or Purbo and others, that it's later?
It certainly is later.
Because as far as I'm concerned, you don't date Luke, and then 20 years later he's writing
his sequel.
The date is determined by the whole.
He plans, as I see it, this two-volume work.
That's why I say in Luke chapter 4, Jesus goes into the synagogue, and is at Nazareth,
and his arm was killed.
Because he provokes his Jewish audience by saying, in effect, in the Old Testament.
He doesn't use that term.
Paul prefers Gentiles.
That sounds a lot more like Paul.
The story of Jesus at Nazareth in Luke 4 is a model for Paul.
He's already thinking Paul, let's say, Presidian Antioch, or Thessalonica, when he's writing
Luke 4.
It's the only thing that makes sense.
Why would he take Jesus inaugural day, which in Mark is a day of tremendous success at
Capernaum, everything goes well, healings, teachings, everything's marvelous.
He turns it into a day of complete disaster at Nazareth when they try to kill him.
So you're suggesting, just for our audience to stay on track, Mark has success among
Jews in this situation, and Luke is saying this turned into a catastrophe.
One of the best ways to understand Luke is to watch him change Mark.
And the deeper the change, the more you're getting looking, not marking our traditional
material.
Yes, Mark starts Jesus off with this marvelous day at Capernaum, gets his fishers, his fish
or followers as it were, and he goes into the synagogue, it's the Sabbath day, teaching
is great, the healing is like that evening, it's a marvelous day.
That's the source that Luke has.
So you have to explain why he does what he does with that.
And the inaugural day of Jesus in Luke, Luke acts, is at Nazareth, not Capernaum, and
it is a total lethal, they try to drive him out of the synagogue because he provokes them.
He's talking to Jews, his fellow Jews, his fellow townspeople, and all of a sudden, he
starts explaining Isaiah 64, they like him, then all of a sudden he says, yeah, but God
preferred these Gentiles.
Why would you insult your audience?
It's like if you're on a platform, you're speaking in Philadelphia and you said, but
of course New York's a better city.
Well, you just asked the Philadelphia vote, they drive him out and almost kill him.
And then the next day he's off talking to fellow Jews and everything's fine.
This tells me, I'd almost rest my case on Luke 4, that when Luke wrote that, he's thinking
Paul.
He's preliminary draft of what happens to Paul at the city in Antioch.
So that's the way I understand Luke acts.
I try to watch the integrity of what's he up to, then I do make my decisions on it.
How much do I think is to acculturation?
How much would Paul agree with?
And I'm going to say, bluntly, there's very little in Luke acts that Paul would agree
with except that I do think that Paul went to the synagogue to get the God worshipers.
That's I think why Paul can make this astounding absurd statement that after 20 years, some
say round numbers, 35 to 55 round numbers, I'm finished in the East.
You've only hit the capital cities, Ephesus, Thessalonica, Corinth, you know, you just hit
the capital.
Now, I suddenly get it, that's Pauline strategy.
You hit the capital.
You don't hit all the cities.
You hit the capitals.
They'll go out to the other cities, then they'll get out to the countryside.
So if you're finished with the main Eastern capitals, Jerusalem, Damascus, Antioch, Ephesus,
you know, you move on West and he's probably heading for Tarragona, the capital of Spanish
or Roman Spain.
He's a capitalist as it were.
So that's the strategy that he has.
That makes it happen in Paul, but I think Luke gets one thing right about Paul.
Paul is told, by the way, by God to go to the Gentiles.
That's in his own angulation.
That's what he says.
He called me to be an apostle.
He converts from being a persecutor to being an apostle.
The conversion is right, not, of course, from Judaism to Christianity, of course not, but
from persecutor to apostle, which is a huge sweep.
He could have just stopped persecuting in mind of his own business or be a supporter.
He goes from a persecutor full sweep, 180 degrees to an apostle, totally against, totally
far.
Anyway, that's his job, to go to the capitals.
That's the way he sees it.
Now, what does he do when he goes to the capitals?
Does he go to the synagogue and try and convert Jews as Luke Act says he does?
That would be against his mandate from God and against the agreement at Jerusalem that
Peter would lead the mission to the Jews and he would lead the mission to the Gentiles.
He goes to the synagogue to poach.
They're God worshipers.
Now, that's explosive, but it also explains to me why he can move so fast.
If you imagine Paul going to Corinth, going down to the wharfs or to the people who pull
the boats across from the one sea to the other, and he's talking to pure pagans.
Pure pagans.
We never heard, they know there's Jews or weirdos out there with, I have this messiah.
By the way, you don't have to be circumcised.
Excuse me, Paul, never occurred to me to be circumcised.
Why would I think that?
Who's he talking to?
And then he writes Galatians to converted pagans and they're supposed to understand it.
Paul goes to the synagogue to get the God worshipers.
That is explosive.
And I don't think all the God worshipers would necessarily go with him, but he has a message.
It would be like going into a Presbyterian church on Sunday morning and giving a sermon
that you should all be Methodists.
Or a Jewish synagogue, and you should all be Christians, or any explosive one you want.
Because if he gets the God worshipers, they understand, they know what a messiah is.
He doesn't have to do kindergarten education.
He can announce it, and if they accept it, he's got his little cell, and it knows what
he calls the Old Testament, if you will.
He's zooming.
That's why I call it about the Pauline Express thundering along on God-worshipper rails,
laid down by Jewish missionaries.
Being there, I think we have to imagine in every synagogue on the Sabbath that there
was X percentage, and I don't think 25 to 30 might be too much, of God-worshippers.
Who supported the synagogue, by the way.
They didn't just come, and we're quite happy to do it.
I'm quite open about it.
They weren't embarrassed, like those God-worshippers at Aphrodisias, down the Meander Valley, about
two hours east of Ephesus, and they put their name on a column declaring, there were all
members of the boole, members of the boole, I think nine members of the boole, all God-worshippers
putting their name on, I think the restoration of the synagogue, by the way, it's a bit disputed,
what the column is for, but I think it's from the synagogue.
So I have to imagine now Paul hitting a synagogue, I'm making a joke of this, as if we're taking
notes on the names of the God-worshippers, and then talking directly to them.
I mean, Jews may be hearing them, of course, but he's not going to the Jews.
To do that is against God's mandate and the Jerusalem Agreement, and I don't think Paul
would do that.
He goes, where no one has gone before, as he says, the kind of phrase.
He tells the Romans, I like to go where nobody's been.
So in kind of summary, I think of the author of Luke Acts, let's call him Luke, as a God-worshipper,
maybe speaking primarily to God-worshippers, and telling them they can be full members
of the people of God without any of the paraphernalia of Judaism, but he has to be very careful
about one thing.
At the beginning of the second century, Suetonius, Tacitus, Pliny the Younger, any of the Romans
who talked about these weirdo-Christians, they said they were a superstition, not a
religion, a superstition, and they used all sorts of nasty adjectives, pernicious, evil,
but the one that really is the most dangerous, they're a new superstition.
Rome did not like new religions even.
They were quite right.
New religions were always dangerous.
So to say that Christianity, let's call it that, is a new religion, kiss of death.
So Luke has to figure out, how can they be Jewish without being Jewish?
Because Rome has given all sorts of privileges to the Jews, let's say the temple offers sacrifice
for the emperor, not to the emperor, exempt from military service because of the Sabbath.
They were on the side of Julius Caesar, so we liked them.
Now if we nice if I could kick those privileges and take them over from Judaism to Christianity,
then we wouldn't be a new religion, we're the true Jews, we're the messianic Jews.
So Lukacs, while writing against Jews, wants to take the heritage of Judaism with him.
We are the ones who accepted the Jewish Messiah, which they negated, refused.
We took them, so we're kind of like the true Jews and the heirs of all the privileges.
We're not new at all.
But writing after the great war against you, neither are we rebel Jews.
He has to walk as sort of a title.
He can't say we're a new religion and we're lovely.
We're all for Rome.
Rome said, why do we want a new religion for Rome?
We're doing fine with Caesar Augustus.
So Lukacs is very Jewish on the one hand, but very ex-Jewish, I would almost call him.
He's a God-worshipper, speaking to God-worshippers.
And he makes Paul the apostle, you might say to the God-worshippers, because he goes to
the Jews first, they reject him, and he goes then to the God-worshippers.
And I'll give you one example where you can see this whole thing in a nutshell.
Paul's departure over the wall through the window from the masquerade.
It's lovely.
We were in the masquerades, I think, in 2010, and they'll even show you the gate where it
happened.
I think it's the baptism, I think it's called.
They show you the spot.
There's even a place over the gate anyway.
Luke says, it's a story that Luke has and Paul has, the same story.
They both tell about through the gate, through the wall.
It's a great story.
It's almost unforgettable.
Luke says it was because the Jews guarded the gates, the Jews guarded the gates to kill
him.
Paul says in the second Corinthians, Paul says it was basically the Navityan authorities.
I read as the fourth, his ethnic was in charge.
Now if I look at those two, Paul is right.
We can even figure out some back history of why I read as the fourth, whose capital was
at Petra, the size of Jordan, may have taken over Damascus, Paul's missionary there.
That makes all sense.
I won't go into all the details.
That the Jews could guard the gates of Damascus is rubbish.
Watch, Paul, watch Luke acts on the Jews.
They tried to kill Jesus, you know, at Nazareth, they tried to kill Paul at Damascus.
None of this is coincidence.
But not for a second do I think the Jews guarded the gates of Damascus, an Arab city, at all.
In fact, the rest of the fourth was having a war around the same time with Antipas of
Galilee.
So no, it would be a very bad time to be a Jew in Damascus or in Nabataea.
In any case, read Luke acts according to the intention of the author.
Judge it according to the intention of the author.
Use it according to the intention of the author and give Luke acts the dignity of its own purpose.
Which isn't the same as Paul's, it may not be the same as ours.
Join MythVision's Patreon today to access hundreds of videos that I have worked hard
in high quality content that are not in public domain.
They're only on the Patreon.
You will also have direct access to me, referring academics, questions, ideas, or just want
a private chat.
You have that access with me.
Also, I'm trying to do more traveling to educate people from more academics and expand
what kind of material I do produce on MythVision.
This is a full-time gig and you're helping the community by joining.
I'm trying to put together more to educate people who have harmful, cultic practices
or ways in which they're harming society.
We are educating them from MythVision on better understanding these ancient texts and
mythologies and history in a way like not many shows do.
So please, I could use your help and you're going to get and benefit a lot by joining as
a member.
Ladies and gentlemen, join MythVision's Patreon not only to support us, but there are 72 videos
that I did with Dr. Dennis R. McDonald and Richard Carrier all on the Patreon.
Early access, you guys can ask personal questions when I go to interview these scholars and
you're helping MythVision grow.
