If you're anything like me, you probably have studied the Bible and the Apostle Paul
through the lens of commentators, reformers, the Catholic Church, early church fathers.
The list goes on. What I've come to be interested in in my journey is what did the author mean
when they wrote these letters and what was the cultural matrix or zeitgeist in which
they were living in so that we can better understand what the authors of the New Testament
were trying to convey. What were the original listeners probably understanding when these
authors wrote these texts? That's why I said, if you're like me, you want to take a deep dive
into actually knowing the context of the literature being written. The Bible is like an art piece.
It gets reinterpreted. It gets molded in new ways under new conditions in different cultures
over long periods of time with different interpretations. And of course, if you try to
pin down a problem that ends up happening, it just gets kind of remade into something else.
Exactly what the New Testament authors are doing with the Septuagint of the Old Testament
is exactly what modern Christians are doing to the New Testament in many respects.
So I have a scholar today and my friend Stephen Nelson who are going to take a deep dive into
what the Apostle Paul was probably doing in his letter to the Romans. And what was the Gentile
problem? How did Paul try to resolve non-Israelite Gentiles into his movement and trying to wrestle
with the problems throughout his letter to the Romans? This is part one and it's a long deep
dive exposing you to the actual on the ground details that would explain what Paul is probably
doing in the first century CE.
We are MythVision. Welcome back to MythVision Podcast. I'm your host Derek Lambert and today
I have my co-host Stephen Nelson joining again to help me pick the brain of Dr. Christopher D.
Stanley and understanding Paul's Gentile problem. How are you both doing?
Good. Nice day here in Western New York. Very good. Good, good. Let's dive in. Dr. Stanley is a
social and religious historian who studies and writes about early Christianity and the Greco-Roman
world. He recently retired as a professor at St. Bonadventure University in Western New York.
Dr. Stanley has written or edited six books and dozens of professional articles on early
Christian text and history and presents papers regularly at conferences around the world.
Go in the description of this video and you can see two or three of those articles
to go further and deeper into the very issue we're going to be discussing today.
For those who are interested, the books are on Amazon, which the link is in the description.
You can also get his books through a slavesstory.com that is also in the description of this video.
Don't miss out on the opportunity to learn from Dr. Stanley. Me and Stephen have been
picking his brain for quite some time. He has been a wonderful resource and has taken a deep dive
for decades. He's dove into Paul. I mean, Paul's this enigma for so many people to understand
and so we're going to learn from him today. Continuing in this introduction for the first
20 years of his career, he focused most of his research in writing on the Apostle Paul's use
of scripture. He is known internationally for his work in this area and his books and articles have
helped to reshape the scholarly discussion about Paul and scripture. The topic of our interview
today is going to be in relation to this, but our last episode, if you want a more extensive
introduction and you want a deep, deep understanding on how Paul applied his scripture in his own
context with his own meaning, you need to go check out the episode. That's all I could say because
it's a very well done. There's over 16,000 views. It's a hot video. Lots of people are impressed
with the information. We bring up the pericapies. We do a deep dive surgery on Paul's letters to
show you he is doing something different with his use of the Hebrew Bible or Septuagint.
He's written many books. Like I said, they're in the description. He also served for six years as
founding chair of Paul and scripture seminar for the Society of Biblical Literature, the primary
professional organization in the field of biblical studies. Over the last decade, he has turned his
attention to other issues, including sickness and healing in the Greco-Roman world where he talks
about asclepias. The topic of three recent interviews, we've done interviews on that as well.
The recent interviews we did, of course, is talking about did Paul care when someone needed to be
healed? Did they go to a asclepias temple and did Paul care? Seems like he probably didn't,
but you've got to watch that episode. Inter-ethnic relations and antiquity, which I think we're
going to be discussing some today, a topic that we'll be covering in this interview deeply. He has
also written two historic novels in a planned trilogy that bring to life the social and religious
world of Roman Asia Minor, modern Turkey, in the era of Paul. Information about the novels, like I
said, or in a slavestory.com in the description. Now I may introduce my other co-host, if you will,
Steven. And I'm glad he's joining me. I have the pleasure of him helping me co-host, and he's my good
friend, Steven Nelson, who I've been trying to get on more often than not on MythVision for a couple
years. He holds a bachelor's degree in, wait for it, Russian literature, which has nothing to do
with biblical studies. But for some reason, Steven is an obsessed person, more than I am even, on this
with biblical studies. And, but for some reason, Steven is obsessed with learning many languages.
And in Greek is one that he really, really loves. He just came back from Athens. So I'm sure he was
practicing that while he was there. And this is why I've been waiting to put together amazing
illustrations for biblical texts, which you'll see in a minute. And I think these are the
pericope we're going to dive into today. Am I correct, Steven? Yep. You've been doing a lot of that
stuff for me, just so everybody knows. If you see a pretty Bible scripture with Greek on the right
side, you can bank on it, not being Derek Lambert, Steven Nelson. Gentlemen, sorry for the long
introduction, but we're dealing with Paul's Gentile problem. Did you want to start us with
a comment, Steven, and then pass the baton? No, I think we can just jump in. Okay.
Dr. Stanley? Well, you wanted it. You have a question we're going to start with.
I'll start with a question. I guess that might be a good idea. If I do start with the questions,
I want anyone to know that there is an issue we're trying to wrap our heads around what Paul's
social ethnic issues were in the first century. Who are the Gentiles? Where does the term come
from? What does it mean when Paul uses it, Dr. Stanley? Okay. Thank you, Derek. Anyone who's
read anything in the New Testament knows that the word that's translated into English most often as
Gentiles fills the New Testament. It's certainly an issue, a group, something there that people are
really concerned about in some way, shape, and form. You were mentioning a minute ago.
I've been working for quite a while on an academic book dealing with these issues. What did
ethnicity mean in the ancient world? How did people understand themselves in ethnic terms? How
did groups that thought in those terms relate to one another, both cooperatively and in terms of
conflict? A lot of this background material is stuff that nobody really in New Testament studies
has dealt with. Issues, particularly when it comes to Paul, which is a lot of language about
Jews and Gentiles and Jews and Greeks, people tend to look at this in a vacuum as though it's just
purely something going on in Paul's head in an abstract way. I hope I'm going to be able to
demonstrate by the time I get done today that this wasn't just an abstract question. Paul is
dealing with real-world social problems. He lives in a context with a lot of ethnic hostility that
he's addressing, both in terms of just understanding the world he lives in and creating these multi-ethnic,
and we would say today, Christian churches, although they're just groups of people meeting
in somebody's living room somewhere, and how they're actually going to get along with each other.
A lot of this is kind of the background for some of the things I want to deal with today.
The term Gentile in English is an Anglicized version of a Latin word Gentilus,
which means a family or clan. Gentilus meant pertaining to a family or clan. Gentile
how the word Gentile relates to that isn't immediately clear, but ultimately where it
comes from is the idea that it's something to do with ethnicity and ethnic groups,
have a sense of identity in some way as a clan, as a family, as a group that has some kind of at
least a myth of biological common ancestry or something like that. The actual Greek term used
here is the singular is ethnos and the plural is ethne. While Paul is occupied a lot with these
terms, he certainly did not create the terms, he didn't create the ideas behind it. The language
of Jews or Eudioi on the one hand and ethne on the other hand is rooted in the Hebrew Bible,
or what Christians would call the Old Testament. They're taken directly from the Greek translation
of the Old Testament called the Septuagint that we talked about some in our last session together,
where the word ethne is the most common translation for the Hebrew word goyim,
and I know this is getting a little bit into the weeds, but it's important to get some idea
that throughout the Hebrew Bible, this term goi and the singular and goyim and the plural
is a central term that runs throughout the text. Most of the time goyim, which literally means
the nations or the peoples, is applied to non-Israelite nations, literally the countries around them,
the residents of the Edomites and the Moabites and the Egyptians and all those other people,
they are the ethne, they are the nations. The term in the singular can also be applied to Israel,
and so Israel is more often referred to by the Hebrew word am, that is a people,
but the word ethnos is also used to them, but most commonly, and you might say it's kind of a broad
somewhat overstatement, there's a bifurcation that exists in the Hebrew Bible between the people of
God, who aren't yet called the Jews, because that's a post-Old Testament, post-Hebrew Bible term,
but they're called Israelite to the Hebrews or various other names. They are like the insider
group, they are the people who reside primarily in the land that we know of as Israel, and then
the goyim are everybody else, whether they live outside of Israel or in Israel, because
they can also have the foreigners who live among them, and so they can also, there are other terms
that they're sometimes used for them, the word gear is used for strangers and you missed, etc,
but goyim can be outsiders who are physically outside of our land, we're ancient Israelites here,
but it can also be foreigners who are in our land, and there's a clear distinction drawn that the
goyim, I mean, sorry, the Israel are the people of God, the people of Yahweh, the one God of Israel
who has chosen them as his special covenant people and has given them his laws to live by,
to maintain that covenant relationship, and even though we often don't talk about this in this way
in kind of churches, God loves Israel more than he does other nations, God does not love everybody
the same in the Hebrew Bible or Old Testament, and so they are the special object of God's love and
care, and basically the way according to the ideology we find running throughout the Hebrew Bible,
God's concern with the other nations is directly dependent on his concern for Israel,
so we don't hear about events occurring in Egypt or Mesopotamia or whatever,
unless somebody is doing something to Israel, so it's like Israel is the center of the universe,
they are the special people of God, and everybody outside of that kind of center is the goyim,
the views of the goyim tend to be negative, but not always, so I don't want to give an impression
that there's a consistently negative idea there, but there's often a negative connotation because
the goyim are those who worship false gods, you know, from the standpoint of the Israelites,
Yahweh is the one true God, the creator and sustainer of the universe, and all other deities,
while you know in a lot of the Hebrew Bible there seems to be an openness, there could be
reality of other gods, but by the time you get to the later texts, particularly in 2nd Isaiah,
there is one God, and Yahweh says, I'm the only one, all the others are false, and therefore
people who worship those other gods are not just practicing alternate religions that are equally
valid, they are wrong, they're absolutely worshiping the works of their own hands, and they're doing
all the wrong ritual activities, they have the wrong moral behaviors, and so God is displeased
with them, so even if you don't necessarily have, it doesn't say you got to hate the goyim,
but clearly they are second-class citizens in God's kingdom, so to come forward in that same
idea carries forward then into the Septuagint, the Greek translation, where as I said, ethne is the
most common translation for this word goyim, and Paul, being a Jew, picks up that same language
and is brought up with it, the same with some of our other New Testament authors, and so Paul
doesn't create this thought world of Jews on the one hand, and Gentiles on the other, I should
mention the term Jews, Eudaios in the plural, or Eudaio in the singular, or Eudaio in the plural,
arises between what we think of as the Old Testament and the New Testament, derived directly from the
name of Judah, Judah, Judeioi, and so it's a resonance of Judah, and actually it's called
Yehuda and Euda, whatever, that's where we get these kind of different words of J or Y at the
beginning of it, so basically the word Jews is our anglicization of a Greek word that refers to
people who have either living in the land of Judah, which is a southern portion that comes to be all
of the land of Israel, or we have ancestry, acclaimed ancestry in that area, so I'm going to use the
word Jews now as you're moving into the New Testament era, and so the kind of thought world
is presupposed by most all the authors of the New Testament is in some way, at least in a standpoint
of God's historical work, the Jews are the descendants of those people of God back over
here in the Old Testament, in the Hebrew Bible, and so Eudaioi remain in some sense the people of
God, and I say in some sense, because that's one of the big questions they're dealing with,
because now God, they believe, has done a new thing in sending Jesus, and in Jesus' death and
resurrection, a new era has been introduced in human history, and where the fundamental claim
that Paul makes, but to some degree it's shared by all the New Testament authors, is that the
death and resurrection of Jesus marks a new era in God's plan, not like God changed his mind and
suddenly decided, hey, this Jew thing isn't working, I need to try something else, but rather the claim
that you find by Paul and other New Testament authors is in some sense all that stuff related
to the Israelites and the Jews was act one of the two act play, and the coming of Jesus is the
fulcrum on which things transition, and so in act one you find a lot of things that aren't clear
until you get to act two, you find in act one a lot of things that foreshadow things are going to
come up in act two, but it's only by watching the whole play that you can rightly understand a lot
of things back there in act one, so the Christians are coming along and saying, making the rather
audacious claim that the Jews do not rightly understand their own scriptures, because A,
they don't fully understand that these scriptures are pointing ahead to the coming of Jesus and a
new era that God was going to bring with his death and resurrection, and B, they don't understand
in this new era, God is no more just occupied with the Jews, God is now open to people of any
nation, the nations, the Gentiles, and so a lot of Christians know the expression of called the Great
Commission, where Jesus says, you know, go you into all the nations and preach and disciple them,
etc. Well, you know, from the standpoint of people in that time, that could just as well have been
go you to all the Gentiles. Jesus, particularly in Matthew's Gospel, is just concerned about the
Jews, who are like, okay, now after the resurrection is the time you can go to the Gentiles, and so
Christians are claiming that was always God's plan, and so what that raises questions then,
and this is the background then for where Paul and other New Testament authors are wrapping,
what does that mean about the Jews? Is God done with them? You know, did he kind of
end Act 1 and throw that in the trash can, and now we're kind of into the new plan of God?
What does it mean about the Gentiles? You know, in the Hebrew Bible,
and in Jewish tradition afterwards, anybody could theoretically become a part of God's people
by being circumcised, joining the community of Israel, and obeying the laws of Judaism.
So does that still apply? Is that what all these people from the nations, if God said that's what's
got to be done, if you all believe that, doesn't it make sense that, you know, that's how it should
also be now, that the Gentiles, people from the nations need to be obeying these laws of being
circumcised? And this is the kind of the battleground that Paul is fighting at, where there are a lot
of people who are saying, yes, of course, Scripture says, if you're going to be part of God's people,
you've got to be circumcised, you know, obeying the laws of God, and associate yourself with the
Jewish community. And Paul and others are saying, no, that's Act 1. We're in Act 2 now, and it's
something different now. It's about faith, about faith in Jesus, and understanding the death of
the resurrected, and understanding of what God's new plan is here. And Paul sees himself as having
a vital role to play in carrying out Act 2, and carrying out that extending the message to these
non-Jews. So Paul is persuaded, according to the Book of Acts, and even to send a good Paul himself,
this is some omission that he receives at the time he accepts and recognizes Jesus as the Jewish Messiah.
Paul does not stop being a Jew. In his mind, he believes he's a Jew to his dying day, but he's a
Jew who believes that he's now living in Act 2 of the play, that God has brought a new era now,
who he's not done with the Jews. He says, I'm proof of that. Look, I'm a Jew. You know, God's not
done with the Jews, but he's doing something different. And a lot of the Jews don't see that,
he's saying. So this is kind of the world of where the term comes from, the kind of ideological
background. And in Paul's day, then, just to wrap this up, you know, for most Jews anywhere,
the term ethnic simply meant outsiders, you know, people who are not part of our group,
whether they live in Israel, whether they live anywhere else, and nobody would have understood
it in any different sense in a Jewish community. Does that kind of get at the answer?
Stephen, did you... Well, that leads us into question two, if you can articulate that,
because we're going to start getting into the terminology a little bit.
Yeah, because, I mean, this is a question. We're trying to wrap our heads around,
you mentioned you die as the Jews. What's the difference between Gentiles and Greeks in Paul's
letters? Because he specifies a little more technically with terms here. So we're starting
into it. Do I need to bring up a visual on that, or is that... Why don't we bring up the second one,
skip the first one, it comes to the second one for a moment, of the ones we wanted to show,
the ones... Yeah, that one. Okay. A lot of people don't realize that there are these places in Paul's
letters, where he uses the term Greek, the word Helene, or from the plural Heleneis,
rather than this word ethnos and ethnated, we're talking about. And the reason they don't realize it,
and as you see in these translations of texts, when the nearby standard version,
often the difference is obscured by it being translated as Gentiles. And so, for example,
in the second one there, Romans 2, 9 to 10, there will be trouble and distress for every human being
who does evil, first for the Jew, then for the Gentile. Well, no, that's not what the text says,
it says for the Greek, but glory and honor and peace for everyone who does good, first for the
Jew, then for the Gentile. And people who viewers can take this and look at it later and look at
them all. But the point is, when I was first... What first got me digging into this whole issue
of ethnicity in the ancient world, when I was a young scholar, was... You can leave that up there
while I'm talking. What first got me into this was recognizing that the word Helene and Heleneis
meant something in the ancient world. Nobody was going around saying, I'm a Gentile,
I'm a member of the ethne, or something like this. That was entirely a Jewish term used to refer to
outsiders. But there were people going around saying, I'm a Greek. In fact, there were a lot of people
going around saying, I'm a Greek. In fact, to be Greek was what even Romans and Jews aspired to be,
to be a good Roman, an educated Roman, a respectable member of upper-class society
didn't mean that you spoke really good Latin and that you knew all the Latin classics.
It meant that you spoke very good Greek and you knew the Greek literature and you kind of knew
Greek philosophy and could think and work within a Greek thought world. So also, even among Jews,
those who were more the elite, the upper-class in the cities, like Philo Judea,
so one of our famous writers we have a lot from in the ancient world in Alexandria, Egypt,
a lot of adoption of Greek thought, of Greek language, etc. Because Greek, to be Greek, was like
the great aspiration. And the Greeks, for their part, looked down on everybody else as barbarians.
And that's where we get our word. The term was barbaroi and it means somebody who babbles,
somebody who's kind of like saying, ba-ba-ba-ba-ba, and so you get barbaroi out of that term.
So the Greeks, like the Jews, had a term for outsiders and they looked down on those outsiders.
And I should say that by the time we get to the New Testament era, that is equally matched by Jews
who have largely a negative view of the ethne. And there are a lot of these ferocious criticisms
of the corruption of the ethne and their moral waywardness. And we're going to look at some of
this as it comes to be reflected in Paul. So I don't have time to dig into this, but I will.
Actually, I'm going to send Derek links to some articles that I've done that get into this in more
detail. But in a nutshell, well, actually, before I give the answer, let me lay out the question a
bit further, once I came to realize that Helene meant something and that people were going around
saying, I'm a Helene. And people, in fact, wanted to be regarded as Helenes. I got to think,
wait a minute, well, Paul uses that in his letters. Why? And the first time I ever attended the
annual meeting of the Society of New Testament Studies, which is the International Organization
of New Testament Scholars. I was here as a guest of Richard Hayes, not a member yet.
I was working on this and I went around and asked a number of important scholars said,
you know, I've been thinking about this question about Greeks and Gentiles. What do you think is
going on with Paul's variation of language here? And to a man or a woman, they said, well, I just
think it's just a linguistic thing. You know, August Tartus and Gentiles, who he says, Greeks,
there's nothing really to be read into it. And that's why in these translations, reflecting that
kind of idea, people just feel like they can translate it as Gentiles. And then I would say to
them, well, yeah, but there's this whole background, you know, history of centuries of Greek identity
and Greeks, you know, being something you are and you aspire to. And every one of them said,
you know, I never thought about that. And I realized, okay, there's something here to dig into.
And so this book I'm working on that will eventually, it's going to be a few years because
it got some other things to write first. But in essence, he's laying out that Paul lived in a day
when there was, well, he was the answer, the air of about a century and a half, really close to
two centuries of interethnic hostility in Asia Minor, in North Africa, in Egypt, and Mesopotamia,
between people who define themselves as Udioi, and people who define themselves as Hellenists.
In the cities themselves, there were, particularly in the Roman world, the Hellenists would be the
body of citizens who ruled over the city and established the norms of the city and everything
was built kind of in a Greek way in, say, Asia Minor, for example. When the Romans came in,
they deposed the democratically elected Greek leaders and put their own kind of oligarchic
leaders in, in many cases, but they were still Greeks. And so the rulers, the practical rulers
of these cities were Greeks. And one of the things they did was they wanted to have a common
culture and common religious practice in the cities. And so they often tried to stop the Jews
in their cities from carrying out certain of their practices, not because they thought there was,
you know, they were religiously intolerant, because some Jewish practices were called social
problems. For example, they refused to go to court on the Sabbath because it was their day of rest.
They didn't want to serve in the military because gods, pagan gods, were worshiped there.
They had a special temple tax they paid every year to go to the temple in Jerusalem,
and there were times when currency was scarce in the cities. And the fact that these Jews were
accumulating these massive treasures and sending off out of the country was seen as undermining the
financial wear with all of the city. And not to mention the fact that these Jews, by refusing
to worship the gods of the city, were causing those gods to be angry with the people and to bring
curses rather than blessings to them. So various efforts were made to stifle and put an end to
Jewish practices. And interestingly, the Romans intervened in every case on behalf of the Jews.
The Romans respected the antiquity of the Jewish religion. They had a certain admiration for its
monotheism. They didn't hold it themselves. And so there was this animosity between Greeks and Jews,
because they, you know, the Greeks felt like these Jews are just sticking the mud, screwing up our
society. And yet the Romans are intervening on the side of the Jews, who also believe their
superior to and better than Greeks. And so there's this whole background here. And one of the things
I want to argue as we get into this is that when Paul is using the language of Jews and Greeks,
he has that ethnic hostility in mind that he doesn't, well, it's a subset, in other words,
of his compass language about Paul, about Jews and Gentiles. So I'll say more about that as
we work through here, but it's just good to open up the topic here and let people see this.
So to look at the previous slide. Yeah, let's go back to the other one. Okay. Well, no, actually,
I'm going to get this C. I did want to ask, so you're telling me Paul doesn't have an 800-year-old
issue in mind when he's talking about things in the 50s in the first century AD?
Not the Greeks. Actually, part of what I said here has been getting into the next question,
but I will use this. Yeah, let me hold off and leave that slide up there and we'll come to it
as you move on. Let's hold off a second about transitions next slide. Do y'all want to
ask questions or comment on anything I've said so far?
I guess it's good to just establish when you talked about Eudios, it seems a transition
historically happens where the people who are called the Jews or they are being called themselves
or Eudios from Judah become the technically kind of replace the house of Israel, in a sense.
There also is this eschatological view that the lost brethren from the kingdom of the north,
from way back in their mythology, if you will, that one day, and it's not that it didn't happen
historically, it becomes their mythos, that one day they'll come back. But as Josephus mentions,
their way out here beyond the Euphrates, it's almost like he has an idea that they're out
there somewhere, but we don't really know where. They're just out there in numbers,
not in Rome. The question is, doesn't the term or the people called Jews become Israel? And so at
this point, when you're talking about the people of God, other than the imagination of people
that they believe are somewhere out there, Israel becomes Jews in the mind of Paul.
Essentially, yes, I think I'll nuance that a little bit. In the Hebrew Bible, the oldest term
used is Hebrews. And it's often thought that may derive from the name, a term that sounds similar
to that for some people groups who were migrating from Mesopotamia around the time that Abraham,
supposedly, came from there. And so Israelites becomes a term when you've actually got a
nation called Israel, a people group there that needs a name. The land itself is called,
it's not called by, it's originally called Canaan. And so it gets complicated because the word Israel
then can refer to the physical territory. Once they divide into a northern and southern kingdom,
they can refer to only the northern kingdom. Israelites can be only the residents of the
northern kingdom. They can refer to everyone claiming descent from Abraham. And so the terminology
is fluid and fuzzy. There never was a time when the term Israelites meant only the residents of
the northern kingdom, which is a point worth noting. And so when the northern kingdom is
conquered by the Assyrians in 722 BC, those who were not killed off the primarily the elite
took carried off to Mesopotamia and basically disappeared from the pages of history. The people
who stayed, there are some later on the people of Judah, the southern kingdom. Once the Israelites
have gone, the whole area comes to be called Judah. And so once Judah is conquered by the
Babylonians in 586 BC and their leaders appeared off to Mesopotamia, they are the ones who return
after the exile is called 539 BC. Did that include some of the residents who had originally
descendants of people originally exiled by the Assyrians? Perhaps. Although Assyria is in the
northern part of Mesopotamia, Babylon is the south, it's not impossible. But there's no,
the best we can guess is that those people in the northern kingdom just blended into the
Mesopotamian people and lost their identity. And so after the exile, the Persians call this area
Yehud, which is just a Persianization, if you will, of the word Judah. And then the people of
that whole area, north and south, all of it is called Yehud. And the Eudioi then are the people
who live in this whole area that we today would call Palestine or Israel. But the term Israelites
doesn't disappear because that is their, you know, they read their Bible, they see themselves referred
to as Israelites as Hebrews. And so they can still apply those terms to themselves. So that's
why I don't want to say it replaces Israelites. But in terms of the common practical day-to-day
usage, most people would have called themselves Eudioi, but they would have recognized that
Israelites is a term they could use. So Paul himself in 2 Corinthians 12, when he's kind of,
2 Corinthians 11, when he's combating these people he derived to super apostles, he says,
Are they Eudioi? So am I. Are they Israelites? So am I. And he refers in front of Philippians 3,
he refers to himself as an Israelite from the tribe of Benjamin. So Paul doesn't abandon the
term Israelite. And when he's talking kind of biblically, if you will, about, you know,
scriptural stuff, he will call Israel, he will use Israel as a term for the Jews,
because they are the descendants of Israel. So we have to be careful not to straightjacket
any of these terms. That's my fundamental point here. None of them have got kind of a
pre-packaged set of meanings that you can then import into any other situation that you want to.
You have to look at how language is actually used and not just think that words carry a fixed
meaning and they always have to have that meaning wherever they occur. Does that answer the question?
Oh yeah. Oh yeah. So you think we should go get into that, that image that we had up briefly?
Yeah, that'll be part of my answer to the next question. So if you want to transition to the
next thing we want to talk about, would you like any more questions or comments about anything I've
said so far? I think it's interesting. I think the number one thing, and this isn't a question to
you, it's just for our audiences, that tracking along is what we need to stop doing, I think,
that is harming us in our understanding of this stuff is we need to stop like having this airplane
view that the Bible tells you what the Bible means just by reading another passage somewhere else.
This is a common harmonizing tool that we hear within Christendom. And I think it's a really bad
practice if we're really wanting to understand historically or the reality of trying to glean
what someone means. So when you talk about Helen is, or you talk about the Greeks, or you talk about
this, like, you're going to not only the Bible, you're going outside of the Bible around the time
of Paul to understand the context of what is actually happening on the ground in this time period.
You're not running to Greek literature from 200 BC and 300 BC to really get what Paul's saying,
not saying we couldn't understand something from it. But if we're going to get it, you got to go
to Paul's day to really try to wrap our heads around. And so I'm following you there. The question
we have now is, what do scholars mean when they talk about Paul's Gentile problem?
Yeah, before I get into that, I'll just add one point, an example to what you just said.
I have a friend from India who, when he's made this point about how language changes, and he says,
so when I was growing up in India, you know, we talked about having a gay time and gay was just
a normal word we used. And he said, obviously, that's the word that's changed meaning, and it
really carries virtually nothing of that earlier meaning forward. We don't somehow think that
people who are gay in the modern sense, that is homosexual, are somehow gayer or happier
than other people are. So just an example of how the meaning of a word depends on its usage
in a particular social context, and a particular linguistic context, and can change. And so we
have to keep that in mind when we're looking at the Bible and history. And I think the problem
with this, the reason it gets so abused is that most Christians, including most pastors,
know little or nothing about the historical background of the Bible. And so they don't have
the knowledge to be able to situate these texts and this language in a real social world of practice
and lived reality. And of course, if anybody is listening to my other slide, other interviews,
you know, I just kind of unpacking the kind of social environment and setting. And that's what
I'm about to do in talking in relation to this question about Paul's Gentile Problem.
As anyone who has ever been around Christianity probably knows, at least in Protestant circles
and since the Reformation, the general understanding both in churches and in
scondally circles has been that the central theme of Paul's writings is justification by faith
in Jesus Christ. And like that is the core of his thought that everything else kind of is
subordinate to and supports that idea. And you can unpack what that means. But fundamentally,
it means that the centers are acquitted or forgiven by God on the basis of faith, which
needs to be explained. What does that mean? And not on the basis of like obeying the works of Torah,
that is the Jewish laws or anything like that. But as soon as I said, by works of Torah, I'm
already introducing the subject that doesn't often come up, you know, in Christian church
circles. Well, why is Paul emphasizing this? What's over against another whole system?
And what Paul is dealing with here has been recognized in the last, say, 30 years by scholars
as being more central. That is, justification by faith is a part of Paul's answer to a bigger
question of what is the place of Jews and Gentiles in God's plan for humanity? I mean,
for Paul, as a Jew, thinking as a Jew, you know, he has a certain presuppositional understanding
of reality that has said earlier, we Jews are the special chosen people of the one true God,
Yahweh, who made everything and sustained everything and everything revolves around us.
And so as I said earlier, if they believe God's something new, what does it mean about the old
stuff? And so justification by faith is part of the way Paul is dealing with that. So you'll find
in Pauline scholarship these days that people will generally want to start by talking about the
Jew Gentile issues before getting into the justification by faith question. And in Paul's
status, we find that most fully explicated in chapters nine through 11 of Romans, where he
gets into all kinds of biblical quotations and interpretation about what's God doing with the
Jews and with the Gentiles, etc. And I think most Christians ignore those chapters. It's either seen
as, you know, two down in the weeds or completely irrelevant because we don't care about those,
you know, those things don't matter anymore. Whereas now you'll find most scholars say that
Romans nine through 11 is the heart of Romans. That's the most important part of Romans,
and it's presupposed. And the rest of his letter, we'll get to that and we get to looking at some
texts. So again, for Paul, then there's some kind of a problem surrounding Gentiles. And
traditionally, the answer to that, what is what do you mean by a Gentile problem? It's
this question about this kind of intellectual and theological question that Paul has. Okay,
I'm a Jew. I know that Jews are God's people. Where do I shoehorn the Gentiles in now? How do I
make sense out of this new thing of God? And that's certainly one part of the issue. Paul has
an intellectual, a theological question he's got to grapple with as a Jew to see how does all this
new stuff fit into me still being a Jew? Definitely one part of it. But I want to argue that there
are actually at least four elements, four different aspects to Paul's Gentile problem. That one is
the ideological one, but the others most Christians don't know about. A second one is a political
problem that he faces. As I said earlier, Jews receive special favors and protections from the
Romans in Greek cities. And so, as I said, there were tensions that have a political quality in
terms of political in the sense of whose norms guide what happens in the polis, the Greek city.
And because Jews had special protections, they were able to practice their religion freely.
And when Greeks got in the way, the Romans, as I said, could intervene. But the Christians
don't fit into that category. At least the Romans were always worried about new groups.
They're worried about people who meet in secret. They're worried especially about people
who claim to worship somebody as a Son of God who brings salvation to the nations,
because that's exactly the language it was used to describe the emperors. Augustus was the Son of
God who came at the right time accompanied by supernatural signs of his birth. He's called
Lord and he is to bring salvation to the nations by conquering them and bringing them into the
into the Roman sphere. And so, when you're using this language associated with Roman domination,
you make yourself look very subversive and to reinforce all the fears. And so, one of the
issues going on on the ground in this desire of some Christians to be, and I'm using the term
Christians, they didn't call themselves Christians at that time. Most scholars with today will say
followers or something like that. I'm just going to keep saying Christians with the understanding
that this is a modern term so we can, you know, that's where people will understand.
So, these Christians who wanted to be circumcised and obey the Jewish laws, this wasn't just a
theological issue, looking back at the Old Testament saying, Abraham said that not only
your descendants need to be circumcised, but also the slave, foreign slave, born in your house,
etc, etc. That isn't a real social problem. We don't want to get persecuted. We want these
Romans to think we're Jews so that we'll have protection in the social and political level.
And the Jews are like pushing them out saying, no, no, you're not us. You got all these other
crazy ideas. So, it's a, there's a political issue involved in wanting to be circumcised and obey
the Jewish laws, not just a biblical or theological question. A third type of
category issue that's going on is one that I might call a social one. Paul, as I said,
is engaged in creating these little groups of followers in these cities, you know, might be
10, might be 50. When Paul's writing a letter to the Corinthians or the Romans, you know,
he's not writing to a people who meet in a church building out front, you know,
the first Baptist church or Rome or something like that. He's writing to a group of people who
are trying to figure out what it means to be followers of this Jewish God in this Greek world
and they're meeting in somebody's living room or in somebody's workshop or something like that.
And Paul is clearly convinced in the very beginning that God's only got one plan in this
attitude, faith in Jesus. It applies to Jews and Gentiles. So, you know what people, you got to get
along because God's not going to have a Jewish community over here and a Gentile community
over here or a Jewish community here and a Greek community and a Roman community and, you know,
ethnicity is not going to determine, he's got this socially radical notion of an
inter-ethnic community where those hostilities don't exist and we're also social hierarchies.
We can do a whole program on that, but kind of host social rankings and priorities don't apply
either. This was completely radical and subversive. And so, basically, he's got to figure out how do
I get these, especially these people who identify as Jews and Greeks to get along because they got
this long history. And it's like, I grew up, as I think I might have told you all before,
I grew up in Alabama before and during the civil rights movement. Yes, I am that old.
And, you know, I grew up in a world where there were clear social pecking orders, you know,
white people go on the top, black people on the bottom, all kinds of social derogation.
And so, there were a few people who tried to build multi-racial churches in the South,
particularly the guys who ended up founding Habitat for Humanity. There was a black and
white church called the Coinonea Fellowship in Georgia. And they were subject to all kinds of
abuse from the surrounding community. But they also had to work out, what does it mean to be
black and white together on an equal basis in this church when everything we've ever known
tells us that that ain't so? Now, if you just add to that, if you could add in, if you had a world
where black people also thought they were superior to white people, then you get the kind of social
tensions that Paul is dealing with. So he's got a very practical question of what kind of practices
and teachings do we need to have for these Jews and Gentiles, these Jews and Greeks,
to get along with one another in these real-world gatherings that meet in somebody's living room.
And then finally, I would say there's a missional problem. It's kind of overlaps with the ideological
issue. Paul has faced a real-world fact that as he, as a Jew, has gone out preaching to Jews
about Jesus being the Messiah who's come to fulfill their scriptures, you know what's happening?
Most of them are saying, I don't buy it, Paul. And on the other hand, once they start going out,
and this is before Paul, preaching the same kind of a message tailored more to Greek world,
they sign these Gentiles, these Greeks, these Romans, these Galatians, these, you know, whatever,
are saying, hey, that's good. And especially the ones who are already attracted to Judaism.
There were people outside the Jewish world who admired Judaism. They attended the Jewish synagogues
and adopted some Jewish practices without becoming full Jews. They became vital to the spread of
Christianity into the non-Jewish world because they basically already wanted, knew about and already
wanted what the Jews were offering. But Paul's basically, in their mind, coming along and saying,
you can get it cheaper. You don't have to be circumcised and obey the Jewish laws. And you
don't have to therefore look weird when you go to the baths and you're naked. And people say,
ha, something's different about Joe today. You don't have to be disassociating yourself from
your family and all by doing these weird Jewish things. And so, you know, they become attracted.
And so Paul then is trying to have them at the balance. What do I do here? You know, Gentiles
are responding to my message. Why are they responding? Why are they getting this? And why are the Jews
not responding to my message? And he grapples with this a lot in Romans. So all four of these kinds
of issues are problems that Paul is grappling with in his letters. He doesn't say clearly,
okay, and now I'm dealing with number one. Now I'm dealing with number two. It's kind of a
conglomeration. And so after when we finish going through some texts, I'm going to come back and say,
how do Paul's arguments address each of those four kinds of aspects of his Gentile problem or his
Jew Greek problem? Because that's a subset of the Jew Gentile problem. A comment question here so far.
Stephen, can I be sarcastic for a second here? No.
So Dr. Stanley, you're telling me Paul isn't imagining these Hellenades to being secret
lost Israelites? It's like, how would you respond to that if I told you, well, aren't these Greeks
just secretly lost ethnic Israelites who are literal descendants of Abraham? Would that not
sound very strange to you after you're studying all of this material?
Yeah, maybe it would be, maybe the closest parallel that comes to my mind is,
I actually have some Native American background, but not much. Imagine somebody who isn't,
doesn't have it, and they go to a Native tribe and they say, you know, my ancestors are the same
as yours. You know, we're Natives too. Look, I've got this story I can tell you how, in fact,
I don't want to, maybe I don't want to be too controversial, but in essence, the Mormons
are in essence saying to some degree, there's this lineage and linkage with Native Americans.
And you know, Native Americans say, screw you, you know, you don't belong here. They're trying to
create a completely new meaning for being a member of this, that and the other Native tribe.
They would make absolutely no sense to anybody who actually normally bears that name. And it's
the people who bear the name who get to define what it means. And people, both they have a certain
term and people outside know them by that term. That's pretty well conclusive evidence. This
is what this term means. And so with Greek, back to that again, everybody knew what Greek meant.
Everybody knew what you Dios meant. I mean, these were very clearly delineated ethnic categories in
the ancient world. No question in anybody's mind about what those terms meant. Whether you were
Jew, whether you were Nibir, where you live, no matter what you are. Without a doubt, they were
Israelites then. Okay. Well, but the confusion, but the confusion stems from people maybe not
understanding what ethnic referred to in a Jewish context because you have to say that from an,
you know, an insider perspective, from an insider Jewish perspective that everybody else
is considered ethnic. Yeah. And if I just complicate matters further, one point I didn't make out,
there was somebody else who referred to outsiders as ethnic, the Romans. The Romans talked about,
referred to the nations as being, as I said earlier, the ones to whom they're bringing salvation
in the sense of a political sense, they would say. And, but the Romans have this weird thing
with regard, their bifurcation is not as sharp. Oh, we need that slide back up, because I need
to say something about this bifurcation. The Romans did not make a clear bifurcation between
themselves and others because they wanted to be Greeks. And so they didn't quite, and the Greeks
referred to the Romans as barbarians. And so the Romans are this kind of trying to carve out
this third category in a sense for themselves. And so they would call the Greeks and the Jews
all members of the nations. And yet they also themselves wanted to be Greeks. So for them,
it was really kind of muddy. One point I didn't make that's important to understand as we start
moving into the actual text, is that Paul consistently defines reality, the reality of the
world of humans in a bifurcated way. Other Jews did not do this. Let me repeat that. Other Jews
did not do this. It's often said, well, yeah, Paul divided everything into Jews and Gentiles or
whatever, because he's a Jew. Well, no, I mean, Josephus refers to something like 40 different
people groups, ethnic groups. He's aware that there's ethnic diversity in the ancient world.
Other authors were as well. Paul shows no recognition of any ethnic group outside of Israel as a group
other than Galatians. There is, I'm sorry, other than Greeks. There is, I did a paper that will
feed into my article here with in Asia Minor alone, the first century BC geographer Strabo
identifies somewhere, I think it's in 40 to 50 different people groups in the area that we think
of as Turkey. So Greeks define everybody in one way. Some Jews did. But look at what Paul does.
He is constantly using dividing the world into Jews and Gentiles or Israel and Greeks or circumcision,
uncircumcision, those underlaw, those without law, and now we've got an error. Okay, there's something
wrong here. The unbelievers in Judea should be on the other side. I'm sorry, no, I'm wrong.
That's right. He refers to as a Christian, he refers to Jews as the unbelievers in Judea because
they're approaching getting Christians. More often the unbelievers refers is his term for non-Jews
and he refers to my flesh. The key point is not knowing all these terms, but it's knowing that
in Paul's thought world, in Paul's ideology and his way of making sense of and answering
all these questions, you have to be either a Jew or to use the most broadest term, a Gentile.
And so he ignores all these other identities. If you're a Galatian, you have to recognize you're a
Gentile too in order to be part of God's plan. If you're a Pamphylian, you got to adopt this Jewish
term of being part of the nations and in order to find your place in God's plan. If you're a Roman,
you got to understand yourself as a Gentile. So in some sense, for Paul, Gentile or the nation
serves as kind of an ideological category for placing all non-Jews in God's plan. And if you
want to benefit from God's plan of salvation, you got to recognize your Gentile centers,
as he says in Galatians chapter two. So we might come to that and we're looking at the text,
but I just want us to be clear about what Paul is doing here. It's not something just Jewish.
It's a Christianized version of one pattern that's seen in the Jewish Scriptures that other Jews
don't necessarily do or share. Paul uses the barbarians here. Can you tell us why he uses
that language briefly? And then another thing is there are some who might hear you use this term
Gentile a lot, like the way you refer to Gentiles. Sometimes you emphasize after, I mean the nations.
Because they don't like that word Gentile. They're like that Gentile is anachronistic and it doesn't
have any bearing at all on Paul's original use. So yeah, and I'm glad you brought that up because
I hadn't said that. If you look through the actual texts in Paul and also the entire New Testament,
what you'll find is an ambiguity about the way we today would render that term. In some places,
it's clearly referring to nations in the sense not of nation states. They didn't have nation
states the way that we do today, but people groups who have their own social and political
structure and identity. So sometimes it's referring to a collection of nation groups like that.
Other times it's just a broad brush, all-encompassing term for anybody who is not a Jew.
And in still other places, you really can't tell. It could be used either way. So I probably should
to want to confuse people very well, go back and forth when you're saying the Gentiles and the
nations. But do keep that in the back of your minds that Gentiles, when we use it as just kind of a
technical Christian term, but in the background, when Paul's using it, you need to keep hearing
these echoes of the non-Jewish nations and people groups out there who sometimes can be
identified, looked at as multiple nations and peoples, even if Paul doesn't speak about it.
And then when other times are an undifferentiated mass of sinners who are not part of the people of
God. Barbarians, you asked about, Paul uses that one place in Romans one is adopting a Greek
world mindset for a moment. He says, I'm indebted to Greeks and barbarians. And we'll look at that
text in a minute. The other one is in Colossians three, where the author, arguably maybe a reason
for saying Colossians might not be Paul or might not be at least linguistically, is because he
doesn't say just neither Jew nor Greek, male nor female. He also says, nor Scythian, nor barbarian.
And these are categorical terms that appear nowhere else in Paul's kind of thought world
and would really seem to be rather foreign to Paul's way of framing. We're going to get to that later.
Yeah, I would add that, you know, we didn't, it's outside the scope of our examples, but, you know,
Philo does this in, on Moses book two, where he has Greeks and barbarians, Greeks and barbarians,
like there's the whole world, but the world is divided between Greeks and barbarians. And it's,
you know, he's doing, it seems to me like similar things to what Paul's doing.
That is a great point, because Philo, who's a very Hellenized, very Greek guys, you might say,
Jew in Alexandria, around roughly the same time as Paul, he adopts a lot, much more of Greek thought
and Greek categories. He's very influenced by Greek philosophy. Yes, it's very common for him to
talk about Greeks and barbarians. He also can talk about Jews and Gentiles. So he's kind of
maintaining both of these kind of exclusive categories and trying to kind of wear them both
at the same time. He's both a Udaios and a Helene. And so he feels like he could shift from one of
those identities to the other. Ethnic identities are fluid. You can move between one and another,
depending on, you know, the time and the circumstances. So, you know, there may be
circumstances where someone, an example I use is someone who is, say, a member of a native tribe
in Latin America. In one context, might identify themselves as Kicha. In another place,
they might identify themselves as Guatemala. In another context, they might accept the idea
they're Central American. In the United States, they're probably going to get called Latino or Hispanic.
And depending on what they want to accomplish by their self-designation, there might be some instances
where they want to kind of claim unity with others. They might accept this Latino or Hispanic
category. Other times, they want to make, you know, their ethnic or their national pride. I'm
Guatemala. I'm Kicha. And so, ethnic identities are not fixed categories. They're malleable,
they're diverse, and most people have more than one or many people have more than one of them,
and they can shift from one to the other. So, I'm glad we get to bring that up. We can't
have time to get into all the background and anthropology of the term ethnicity, but this
is essentially the common social scientific understanding with ethnicity there.
All right. So, we're going to go on to the first example. Should I slide over?
Yeah. So, let's actually look at some texts. Okay. Romans. So, in essence, in order to,
the place where Paul grapples most extensively and continuously with God's plan for the Jews and
the non-Jews is in his letter to the Romans, and we could talk about why if you wanted to,
but I'm not going to get into that. Let's just accept it as a given. And so, in order to explicate
Paul's answer to these Gentile problem or problems, as I was saying, we've really got a Yorkie way
through most of Paul's letters to the Romans. We've got some of the key verses on slides here
for our viewers to be able to follow along. I'm going to read or summarize others along the way,
because you just don't want to have all of this up on slides and boring you to death with them.
But I want to highlight some and hit others rest separately. So, at the beginning, the very beginning
of this letter, Paul is writing to these Christ followers in Rome, and he is explaining that he
has often wanted to come see them. He says in the fourth line, so that I may receive, reap some
harvest among you, just as I have among the rest of the Gentiles. If we pause just a moment,
you can see from Paul's language here that he categorizes Romans as part of the Gentiles,
and he categorizes the Gentiles, or the nations, as his missionary field. At the very end of Romans
15, he talks specifically about, he's been commissioned by God to spread the message about
Jesus to all the nations where Jesus is not yet known. And so for him, it literally seems to have,
in one sense, this nations, not just Gentiles in general, but literally he's got to go to all the
different physical territories. So he says, now now about to go to Spain, because that's another
nation, another people group, another place where Jesus has not yet been preached. And so there's
one sense in Paul's mind that the word ethne literally means, he says, I've already preached the
gospel from Jerusalem all the way to Illyricum on the west side of Greece. Now the time has come
that I got to go to Spain, but you know, Italy's right there in the middle. So I need to come there
and have some fruit here among you, win some people to Christ, in order to fill my God-given
mission to literally make believers in all the major nations of the time, the major people groups
of the time. And so he says, I've got to come there. So I'm going to, in order, that's why I'm
eager to preach the gospel to you in Rome. I've got this mission from God. So again, here's a great
example. In Paul's mind, there's certainly this distinction of nations as places that are not
just an undifferentiated mass. You couldn't say, okay, I've been to Turkey, I've preached some Gentiles,
I'm done. You know, I've fulfilled my commission, I reached some Gentiles. There's this geographic
and this ethnic element also to his mission. Should I read this one for anybody who might not
be able to see what we're looking at? Ted again? Should I read this example for people who might
just be listening? Oh, you think there are people who, oh, because if he might be listening and not
watching, they might be in traffic, you know, they're going to look at their screen, get in a
car accident. Before you get into this, before you get into this, though, I just have one more
quick statement. I heard this from Dr. Crossen recently after interviewing him and a few other
people have kind of mentioned this. Paul seems to kind of fly through the empire. I mean, like
people are like, how is he getting through it so fast and assuming his mission is accomplished on the
east side? And Crossen said, he thinks that Paul is engaging, potentially the tradition is, he's
gone to these synagogues, but he's engaging with the non-Jew, the God-fear. So Paul, I don't know
where to stand on this, but you know, who mentioned earlier that it was the God-fears, these in-between
people who were really non-Jews, but they were like, attracted to monotheism and Judaism and whatnot,
who really were the ones who are successful in taking the gospel into the pagan pagan, if I can
in the world. So Paul's already got a half pagan, half, I want to be a Jew. And he's working with them
at all these synagogues, which is why he's able to blast through the empire so quickly. Maybe he's
writing to Rome where there's Jew and these God-fears. What are your thoughts of that? Do you think
he's engaging with God-fears, mainly? Actually, in the Romans question is a bit more complicated,
because this is, he's writing, the only letter that's written to a group of people he did not
establish and has not visited. And there are a lot of debates. Traditionally, the answer has been,
he's writing to a mixed audience of people who are non-Jews and who are Jews, Stanley Stowers,
about 15 years ago, forcefully argued against that in his book, Pre-Reading Romans. And probably,
he's had a massive influence in people saying that Paul's audience here is, predominantly,
if not exclusively, Gentiles. And then he writes about Jews. It's in order to shape the
self-understanding of Gentiles and their understanding of God's plan,
of which the Jews are a part. And I think there's a lot to be said for that. I'm a bit agnostic on
the point myself, but generally speaking, I would agree entirely with what you were saying. Paul is
an urban person. He grew up according to the book of Acts in Tarsus. He spent all his life in cities.
As weird as this might sound to us, you can preach in the cities, you're done. You've established a
community there. Whether he actually thought the job was done, because he just didn't engage with
the countryside, or more likely, if he just assumed because of trade and communication,
it would spread outward from there to the countryside, which is probably more likely,
and that's what actually happened. Either way, once he's got a little beachhead established in a city,
he feels like he can move on to the next big city. And that's why in Acts, it's always cities.
You never hear anything about him preaching in some village somewhere,
or grabbing some farmer off the side of the road, or something like that.
Or wasting his time when he shipwrecks on this random island, and all the people there,
like Steven's brought up in the past to me, and he's not even wasting his time with these guys.
Yeah, like the episode in Malta is a little more...
Yeah, that's a different one.
Yeah.
That wasn't part of his plan, but you're right. That's one example. It's almost the
exception that proves the rule.
Because he doesn't evangelize them, right? He just moves on.
In fact, interestingly, that is the one place in the Book of Acts in that story
where the native people are called barbaroids, barbarians.
That's a good point.
Wow, cool.
So clearly from the standpoint of Luke or whoever the author is, these people are men-natives.
They are the ones who would be the real barbarians that everybody would agree.
They are just uncouth, unsophisticated, rural people who don't really deserve the time of day.
I just wanted to roll that red carpet out as you're diving into this text,
that when we think of Gentile, when we think of Ethne, when we're thinking of this,
he's not writing this like they don't at least have a grip on something.
They got to know something.
He wouldn't be writing all these scriptures to these people.
Let's go with your friends, the other academic that you mentioned,
saying he's writing to these Gentiles. These are Ethne.
They had to have been around synagogues or something, right, to learn the scriptures.
So these would have probably been Godfair, Ethne?
Well, at some point, the most common explanation, it's come into a lot of fire in recent years,
the kind of classical explanation was that in 49 AD, there's, I don't know if you're
Suetonius, one of the Roman authors speaks of Claudius exiling the Jews from Rome because
of trouble that was being made. And it is kind of classical answer was, well, it began among Jews,
but then the Jews here included the Jewish Christians. And by the time we come to Paul,
those Jews either have not come back or they've come back, but they're a small proportion.
In fact, some of the later things in the book of Romans about the strong and the weak
are often read by people as the strong here are the Gentiles and the weak are the Jews who are
more scrupulous about various kinds of eating and foods and observances and things like that.
Both the historical framework and the linguistic use there have come into a lot of fire in recent
years, but I think it would be fair to assume that somebody, and we don't know who, probably began
there enrolling the synagogue. Tradition, of course, as it was Peter and that he came there as a Jew
and, of course, would have begun in the synagogues. Who knows? It may even be some truth to that, but
most likely that seems to be the constant pattern that they begin in the synagogue and work outward.
I don't think that is just a literary creation in the book of Acts, which is sometimes has been,
a lot of times been argued by people that, you know, Paul didn't go to synagogues,
Paul only cared about the Gentiles. Now, I think there's ample indication in Paul's letters too,
when he talks about, you know, about his heart's desire for his people as if they'd be saved and
talks about he becomes like a Jew to Jews and like a Greek to Greek, so he might win some,
you know, whatever they are, Jews or Greeks. I think there's ample evidence in Paul's letters
that he didn't give up on Jews, but he, you know, his actual success was primarily among the Gentiles,
among the non-Jews, and I would bet, I would guess that was probably the norm everywhere.
Because after all, you come to a city and say, hey, Jesus is a Messiah, and they say, great,
what's a Messiah? He's a son of God. Which God? You know, these, the kind of terms,
the basic terms that these Christians took for granted are so deeply rooted in Jewish
understanding that you've kind of got to have some familiarity with Judaism to even,
for it to not sound like you're speaking Martian. Thank you for that. So is it, is it worth reading
this for anyone who's not Martian? Yeah, go ahead. Yeah. Okay, so Romans 1. Romans 1, 13 to 17, yeah.
I do not want you to be unaware, brothers, that I have often intended to come to you
and have been prevented thus far, so I may reap some harvest among you, just as I have
among the rest of the Gentiles. I am under obligation both to Greeks and to barbarians,
both to the wise and to the foolish. Thus I am eager to proclaim the gospel to you,
also who are in Rome, for I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation
to everyone who believes, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek. For in it the righteousness
of God is revealed from faith for faith, as it is written, the righteous shall live by faith.
Great, thanks Stephen. So I'll make a couple more comments. I commented already about the Gentiles,
about the Greeks and barbarians. Paul is just, you know, he's writing two Romans who already are
very familiar with that distinction of Greeks and barbarians, so he's basically kind of using
a reference that they understand arguing on their turf at that point. But this last part,
it's always been problematic for a lot of people. Wait a minute, wait a minute. Why does he say
the Jew first and also to the Greek? And not only, it does say the Greek, not the Gentile. Okay,
what about people who aren't Jews and Greeks? I mean, does God not care about them? So it's a
passage. It's been one of the reasons for saying, obviously, Greek must mean Gentile,
because after all, Paul obviously has to mean to the Jews and to the Gentiles.
So two problems, you know, one, that's not what he says. He says Jew and Greek. And then two,
what do we do with this Jew first and also the Greek? Well, is it simply that Paul is
ethnically a Jew and just kind of presupposes Jews are better than Greeks and, you know,
Jews are closer to God and they get first shot, first dibs at what God is doing.
In other words, is this a matter of reflecting Paul's own ethnic prejudice, if you will?
Most people don't go there. Most people would say, well, maybe the fact that he did, as you said
earlier, they went to the synagogues first. And so in that sense, just historically, it went to the
Jews first, and also to the Greeks. Well, could be. But as we're going to see in our next slide,
we come over to Romans chapter 2. In fact, why don't you go ahead and flip to that one.
He also says there will be tribulation and distress for every human soul who does evil
to the Jew first and also to the Greek. Oh, great. Jews get to go first in punishment too.
So obviously, there's not something here that is saying ethnically, Jews are better because,
you know, you would say if that was the case, the non-Jews ought to get the punishment first and
worst. So something is going on, if we flip back to the previous one then, that more likely probably
has to do something that God's plan began with the Jews. And so God's plan then is to be, you know,
if you believe the Hebrew Bible, the Old Testament stories, to be the true story of God's plan in
human history, then God's plan has always come to Jews first and then branched out from them to
non-Jews. They get first dibs on the gospel. Huh? They get first dibs on the gospel. Yeah, exactly.
Whether it means that they get preached to first as in synagogues, or whether it means just
historically they knew more, they had the roots, it was all oriented to them and radiates outward
from them. I think either of those would be plausible readings. But he goes on then and next
one to say they're also more responsible. And so he develops in chapter two that those who are,
they're circumcised and have the law, God's going to hold them more responsible for not doing the way
God wants. And he does those ignorant Gentiles who might have enough knowledge in their own
consciences to follow the right way, but they don't have the knowledge. So the greater knowledge
is greater brings greater responsibility. And so there seems to be what's going on there.
Should I read this one quick too? You already made my comment. I don't want to jump into that one
yet. I just want to jump to it for a moment. I want to say a couple of quick words before we get there
about where Paul goes then go back to the previous one just to leave it up there. So he ends by saying
in it that is in the gospel, the righteousness of God, God's righteous judgment, God's righteous
standards, different ways of looking at that is revealed from faith for faith. It's all about
faith. I won't try to unpack that. The righteous shall live by faith or the Greek could also be
translated the one who is righteous by faith shall live. And that becomes the theme of the whole
letter is this been the whole letter unpacking what he means by that. But he seems to get there,
seems to not be going there when he goes the next verses. He talks about not about the righteousness
of God in the sense of the gospel and salvation, but rather about the dark side. He says, well,
the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and wickedness of those who by
their wickedness suppress the truth. Who does he mean? Those who by their wickedness suppress the
truth. It goes on to say, what can be known about God is plain to them because God has shown it to
them. Ever since the creation of the world, his eternal power and divine nature and visible that
they are have been understood and seen through things he has made. So they are without excuse.
Whether the new God, they should have known about him, they did not honor him as God or gift
thanks to him, but they became futile in their thinking and their senses minds were darkened,
claiming to be wise, they became fools. And here's the key point. And they exchanged the glory of the
immortal God from images resembling a mortal human being or birds or four foot in the animals.
And they exchanged the truth about God for a lie and serve the creature rather than the creator.
In other words, anybody who doesn't worship the right God is under God's judgment.
It doesn't sound pretty intolerant today, but that's what he says. And so the fundamental idea is God
can hold all these other people responsible because they should have been able to know
there's an almighty and good creator simply by looking at the world God has made that classic
argument from creation that has played an important role in a lot of Christian history.
Paul says, all these, you know, you don't have to be a Jew. You don't have to have this special
revelation from God to know who the God is like. And it goes on later in the chapter to say they
also can know by their own conscience. And so Paul is eventually talking about the Gentiles here.
So he's first showing that those who are, oh, I'll come back later to the Jew in Greek and why I
think he says that later. It's ultimately that issue, that issue of two people who both believe
they're superior. And he's using them as kind of emblematic of all human beings that no claims of
pride and superiority matter kind of in God's kingdom. So I don't think it is a substitute for
Gentile. Everybody could have seen that that was what was going on. So he goes on to unpack in the
rest of chapter one, all these awful, dreadful moral degradations that occur because humans choose
to worship the wrong gods when they could have known the right God. So basically he's talking
about how bad the Gentiles are, at least those who do this. And I want to make that point clearly
because he doesn't say all Gentiles do this. He knows they're God-fearers. He knows they're Gentiles
who were attracted to God of Israel, who are embracing some of the ways of God and trying to
live by it. And so then in chapter two, he shifts gears over to think about what about them. And so
he talks in the first part of chapter about how those who are probably speaking to Jews, at least
rhetorically, they can't judge people who act in those ways because they don't live up to what God
wants also. And then he comes to chapter two, verses nine through 12, this portion here if you
want to read it, Stephen. You're muted, Stephen. There will be tribulation and distress for every
human soul who does evil, the Jew first and also the Greek. But glory and honor and peace for everyone
who does good, the Jew first and also the Greek. For God shows no partiality, for as many as have
sinned without the law will also perish without the law. And as many as have sinned in the law
will be judged by the law. Romans two, nine through 12. Okay, great. So again, the same thing about
Jews are first in being punished, they're first in being rewarded because they are the special
people of God. Interesting, he shows no partiality. It just seems like he shows partiality, doesn't he?
But ultimately, I think that what's going on there, the reason you're using Greek is again,
both of these people groups believe that they are special to God or the gods. And so in the case of
both of them, he wants to say, get off your high horse and stop thinking God's partial to you.
God's not partial to anybody. So I think again, there's a rhetorical purpose for using Jew and
Greek here, rather than Jew and Gentile, he wants to shut down the pretensions of real people in
his churches, who identify as Jews, or identify as Greeks, and who are being all hoity-toity against
the opposite party in their church. And he said, Hey, you know, God doesn't play favorites, even
though his language does acknowledge in a backhanded way as a Jew. Well, okay, maybe God does kind of
play favorites, at least he used to, but he doesn't anymore. And so he goes on the rest of the chapter
to unpack that latter part about sinning without the law and within the law, because he again,
recognizes there are Gentiles, who as he says later in the chapter, have the law of God written
on their heart. And he says, it's not the hearers of the law, we're righteous in God's sight,
but the doers of the law, who will be justified. That sounds like an attack on just Jews who obey
and don't obey the laws, but look at this passage we still got up on the screen. On what basis is
God judging Jews and Greeks here? It's on the basis of their deeds. Do they do evil? Or do they
do good? And this is something to spend a lot of a problem for a lot of Christian theologians,
because wait a minute, it's all about faith, it's all about grace, where do good works come in and
all this, what's he doing talking about doing good? Well, we could unpack this a lot more,
but fundamentally for Paul, there is no bifurcation between works and faith. When he talks about
works in a negative sense, he's very clear some places, less so in others, works of the Torah.
That is the whole issue about obeying the laws of Judaism. As a Gentile, he says, no, you don't do
that. But Paul would never say faith does not include works. You show your faith in the one
through God by acting, living, working in the way that he wants. And so those who recognize this
one through God, whether they are the Jews who have been given the law and the revelation of God,
or whether the Gentiles, the very few Gentiles, he probably would say, who recognize the one
through God in the creation and who hear the voice of God in their conscience that the law is written
on their heart and strive to live according to that path, they are the ones who are going to be
the true Jews. As he said at the end of the chapter, the real Jews, the real people of God,
are those who are not just outward, but the ones who are inward, the ones who are obeying God out
of a heart spiritually, this is not saying Jews are no longer God's people. But he says,
a true Jew is somebody who lives by the law, the ways of God, who they are. Well, most Jews
wouldn't have a problem with that. Yeah, look in the Old Testament, they're all kinds of ancestors
of ours who were claimed to be born from Abraham, but God judged and punished them because they
didn't live according to his laws and the same is true in our days. So this is not a knock on
Jews that Jews would reject. But it is kind of when he's smuggling in Gentiles as being able to
also be accepted by God. Well, again, not a lot of Jews would agree with that also. So Paul's not
departing from the world of Jewish thought here. Jews debated on what terms might Gentiles be acceptable
to God. And Paul's idea here that if they recognize the one true God and live basically
according to what he wants, they're okay. It's something that other Jews would have held to as
well. A bit of a problem for a lot of Christians here, and it seems to imply that there may be a
path for Gentiles apart from the ways of Judaism, perhaps even apart from faith in Jesus, if they
recognize God in creation and follow the law written in their consciences. But that's maybe an
issue for another time. So I guess to clarify here in chapter 2, when he's referring to the people who
are the people who do bad deeds and the people who do good deeds, those are essentially just that
he's not referring to Torah observance. He's not referring to bad deeds that's violating the Sabbath
and good deeds is like going and getting circumcised. He's referring to something much more general,
correct? Yeah, I think it includes the Torah that goes beyond it. I think to use our modern terms,
we might say, obeys the spirit of the Torah because he does say they may not have the letter of the
law. They don't know the actual letters, but they live in the way still that God defines as right.
So he says, Jews are judged by whether they obey the letter of the laws they've been given. He's not
seeing Jews are somehow off the hook because, you know, hey, Gentiles don't have to obey these laws.
Why do we have to? You know, Paul never once says that Jews, when they become Christ followers,
need should stop obeying the laws of Judaism. Yeah. And so when you sin without the law,
right, what does that mean exactly? Yeah. I mean, well, that would be for the Gentiles who don't
know the law. So he says, sin in the law, referring to Jews, you'll be judged by the law if you are
Jews and know the law. And he unpacks us a lot more in the rest of this chapter than after this
passage. Whereas he wants to say that those who are without the law, if they don't, as he says later
in the chapter, recklessly says in previous chapter, acknowledge the God of the Creator. And if they
don't follow this voice of God in their hearts, then they are all going to perish as well. But he
does hold Jews and Gentiles to different standards. And I repeat, there's a lot of Christians don't
get this. When Paul is talking about works of the law and, and faith, he's never telling Jews
there's anything wrong with obeying the laws. But him, the laws of the Torah become kind of a
do it if you want to do it if you don't. He says in 1 Corinthians 9 that when he's around Jews,
he obeys the laws. When he's around Gentiles, he doesn't even think about how that looks to Jews
around him. It looks like this Paul guy is a complete weasel that he just is completely has no
principles. When he's around Jews, he puts on a Jewish face. When he's around Gentiles, he acts
like he's a Gentile. Why in the world should anybody trust this guy? He has no principles,
he has no integrity. From a Jewish standpoint, that would be true. But he would say it's because
ultimately the laws become something that you can follow or not, depending on the circumstances
of the situation. He does not say however they should stop obeying the laws of the Torah. Basically,
there are ways, the laws for him become a way of showing your faith in the God of Israel.
Yeah, because he says that he's pretending that he's under the law, even though in parentheses,
I'm not really under the law. Exactly, because he's free from the law there in 1 Corinthians 9.
So he ends this chapter by essentially redefining the class of who might conceivably be acceptable
to God in a way that isn't yet thoroughly Christianized. To say God accepts the descendants of Abraham
who have the law insofar as they obey the law, most Jews would say, yeah, okay, I get that.
And when he says, maybe some Gentiles might accept the truth and about the one true God,
and it might, a lot of Jews could have accepted that. So far, he's not leaving Jewish theological
territory, if you will, though he's definitely criticizing Jews who are not faithful in observing
their laws. It's really in chapter 3 that he launches off into the deep end from a Jewish
standpoint and starts saying things that Jews could not accept. Beginning of Romans chapter 3,
that's not on the slide, he starts out saying, if this is the case, what advantage is there to
being a Jew? What's the value of circumcision? And you expect him to say, it doesn't have any value.
And yet he says, marching every way. Huh? Wait a minute, you just said, Paul, that
there God has no partiality and it doesn't matter if you're like just kind of born a Jew or not.
But it goes on to impact later in chapter 9, what he means by that. He says, talking about his
kindred according to the flesh, the Israelites, the Jews. By the way, here's that term that
coming back to something Derek raised earlier. He says, I could wish that I myself were cursed
and cut off from Christ for the sake of my own people. My kindred according to the flesh,
they are Israelites. Notice, this is Paul's term for Jews, his kindred according to the flesh.
And to them belong the adoption, the being chosen by God, the glory, knowing the glorious
presence of God in the Old Testament, the covenants, the idea that they've received the laws and the
special covenant with God, the giving of the law, the worship, the rituals, the sacrifice,
the promises. Jews got a lot of benefits. They know more. And so there is a lot of advantage
if you're going to become a Christ follower to having this Jewish background, because
you're better able to understand what God is doing in sending Jesus as the Messiah,
the one who's bringing a new era. So he says, there are practical advantages to being a Jew.
They're not spiritual advantages in saying somehow in God's kingdom, Jews occupy a higher level
than Gentiles. And at that point, he's starting to get on ground that other people are going to
question. But it's really as we come on further down that he, in this passage that we have here
in front of us, that he begins to unpack and make the kind of sweeping claims that largely would
have been rejected by people who were not members of his Christian community in terms of the way
he applies these texts. So Stephen, if you want to read Romans 3, 9 to 12, and then 19 to 23,
I'll come back and say a couple of words about how this relates to his Jew-Tentile issues.
What then? Are we Jews better off? Not at all. For we have already charged that all,
both Jews and Greeks, are under sin. As it is written, none is righteous. No, not one.
Not no one understands. No one seeks for God. All have turned aside. Together,
they have become worthless. No one does good. Not even one. Skipping to verse 19.
Now, we know that whatever the law says, it speaks to those who are under the law,
so that every mouth may be stopped, and the whole world may be held accountable to God.
By works of the law, no flesh will be justified in his sight, since through the law comes knowledge
of sin. But now, apart from the law, the righteousness of God has been manifested. Although the law and
the prophets bear witness to it, the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ, for all who
believe, for there is no distinction. For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God.
You're on mute. You're on mute. Dr. Stanley, you're on mute.
There you go.
Now, we get to where Paul starts stepping on his toes. People's toes. So far,
he's established that there are Jews who do not obey the laws of Torah that God has given to them,
and therefore that they will receive judgment. So far, he's established that there are a lot of
Gentiles who, at least as he sees it, could have known about the one true God, and so far as he's
known through creation, live by his path, and have not, and therefore they stand under God's judgment.
But it's simply not true that he is charged, as he says in the second line here, that all
both Jews and Greeks are under sin. It is true that as a class, as classics, he has accused Jews
and he's accused Greeks. And for the same reason, he uses the Greeks here for the same reason he
did before. He's just carrying the language forward into this text. But then he starts quoting these
things from the scriptures and reading them very broadly to essentially negate what he just said
about some Gentiles and some Jews being okay under the Torah or under their natural knowledge of God.
And he quotes a long list of verses. We've got an ellipsis there where several were left out,
but he quotes a bunch of verses from the Psalms and the prophets that talk about nobody is righteous.
Now back to our last thing about where Paul's doing the scripture. In their original context,
these are not literally saying no human being. They are saying that it's a kind of a hyperbolic
statement about, I look around Israel and I don't see, it's hard to find anybody who's righteous
out there. And the Paul takes these light words quite literally as if they were making
fundamental statements about reality. No single human being on the earth is righteous.
And the fact that he can quote it from the scripture says it must be true because God
said so. Because these Jewish scriptures, he presumes are the absolutely true words of God,
the authoritative words of God, whatever they say carry absolute validity.
And to clarify, he's quoting Psalm 14, one through three.
Yeah. And then he changes to some other verses as well as he goes through
this part, first part of Psalm 14. And so he basically cites a litany of verses that talk about
just how evil and wicked and sinful human beings are in order to say,
so see, although I did theoretically allow that there could be Jews and Gentiles who are right
with God, in reality, nobody is. In reality, everybody is under sin, as he says, all have
sinned and fall short of the glory of God. He says this several times in the letter.
And when he says, and after right after the yellow part, we know whatever the law says,
he's not talking about the law in the sense of the Torah here.
He means whatever these the scriptures say, Paul sometimes uses law as a shorthand for
scriptures as a whole. So if we could paraphrase the portion right after yellow,
now we know that whatever the scriptures say, that for all these verses I've just been quoting,
it speaks to those who are under the law. Well, it sounds like you saying it only applies to Jews.
And yet he all goes on to say every mouth be stopped. Well, we don't have time to unpack this,
but several places in Paul's letters, as odd as this might sound, he seems to have an understanding
that at least indirectly Gentiles are also under the law or understand as he puts it here. Yeah.
Yeah. And so far as we just said in chapter two, that they are can should have known the law of
God written in their hearts. So he is really basically saying nobody escapes the judgment of
God. At this point, a, you know, biblically knowledgeable Jew would take Paul the task
and say, wait a minute, Paul, these verses aren't saying what you say they mean. In fact,
what you said before this is actually the truth. There are a lot of Jews who are faithful to God
and we don't need your Jesus because we are not sinners. We're faithful to the laws that God has
given us. And so at this point, he's kind of marking a break from traditional forms of Judaism,
because he's saying not only that your Jewish ancestry dissent from Abraham, whether literal or
mythical, doesn't make you OK with God. A lot of Jews would agree with that. But he's also obeying
the laws doesn't make you right with God, because you still sin. And this is an idea that is a
bridge too far for Paul's Jewish followers. Judaism has never had the idea of original sin.
People are judged by their deeds and you're just as capable of getting up off your butt
and obeying God anytime you want to at any time. And so therefore, you are responsible
for your choices and God weighs those out at the end in some way, depending on what kind of Jewish
apocalyptic expectation you've got. So Paul is making an argument that would have been considered
specious by somebody who was a Jewish non-Christ follower. But if you are a Christ follower,
you already know, you already believe we're all sinners and we need the grace of God because
that's why God sent Jesus. So he's kind of preaching to the choir here. And so he goes on
to explicate in the rest of this passage and what follows that God even tried to
repair those Jews. He testified to it in the law and the prophets and those Jews just didn't get it.
You know, most of them didn't. This is God's act too now that's come and it goes on in a portion
we don't have on the screen to talk about. It's he sent Jesus to die for human sin and it's through
faith in him that all are justified. And he says at the end, after all that, he says,
sums it up, for we hold then that a person is justified by faith apart from works prescribed
by the law. It's not obeying the law of God that brings you acceptance, forgiveness, right
relationship with God. It's the same for Jews and Gentiles, faith in Jesus. Or is God the God
of Jews only? Is he not the God of Gentiles also? This is Romans three, 28 and 29. Yes,
of Gentiles also. Since God is one, you can't claim that God only has only is the God only of Jews,
even if they're the only ones who have direct revelation from him. And he will justify the
circumcised on the ground of faith, that is, the Jews have to come on the basis of faith,
and the unsimplified circumcised through that same faith. And so he is trying to establish that
Jews are not okay on their own. There's not a separate track for them, even if you allow for
that possibility in chapter two. Gentiles, even if they have some acknowledgement of God, are not
okay. And he knows that E.P. Sanders, one of the great New Testament scholars, made the observation
years ago that I think is fundamentally right, although a lot of people disagree with this.
Paul is not making a logically coherent argument here. Paul knows the solution. He knows he believes
absolutely that faith in Jesus is the only way anyone is made right with God. And he reasons
backward from that. Okay, it from solution to plight. Everybody must have been sinners,
because otherwise God would not have needed to send Jesus to die for the sins of all humanity.
He would have done it maybe just for the... He didn't come just to die for the sins of Gentiles
who did not recognize God in creation and Jews who didn't obey the Jewish laws. So he's got a
reason backwards. There had to be a reason why God sent Jesus to die for all. It must be that
everybody is sinners, even Jews. And so I think that's fundamentally right, that Paul knows
where he wants to get to. His argument doesn't necessarily hold water once you really start
pulling it apart. Well, it's probably getting into the weeds, but the book of Acts puts Paul in
this place where in his speech in Athens, he's saying the times of ignorance are over. God
overlooked that ignorance, and now it's being proclaimed, and now you're responsible for your
actions. Paul never says this explicitly, but there's an implication that before,
you got to pass. But now after this revelation, there's no more excuses.
Exactly. And in that sense, maybe he would put it that Jesus came as the Messiah for the Jews,
and then through them, God's intention was to reach out to the Gentiles. Most Jews didn't
recognize it and therefore are not carrying out their God-given mission to spread the message
about Jesus and Messiah to the Gentiles. Here, I'm doing it, and a few other Jews, he prefers to
Peter. He knows there are other Jews out there doing what he's doing. They're the only ones
carrying forward God's plan to what he intended all the Jews to be. So those Jews who don't
recognize Jesus, again, they're kind of cut out. Just like in the Old Testament,
and it will see this in Romans chapter 9, being born of Abraham or being a member of the people
of Israel, even according to the Old Testament prophets, did not make you safe. You could be
under God's judgment and could be obliterated by the Assyrians and the Babylonians as a sign of
God's judgment. He would preserve a remnant. Paul picks up this remnant theology, a faithful group of
Jews who are going to be preserved through the judgment. Paul says that's what God is doing now
also. We'll see this in Romans 9 to 11. There are some Jews who responded to the message of Jesus.
They are the faithful remnant, just like those faithful ones in the Jewish scriptures who got
preserved from being destroyed by the Assyrians and the Babylonians, etc. So he's not giving up on
the Jews, but he's extending the same logic of the Old Testament prophets to say there are very few
Jews who are really right with God anymore. They're the only ones who are, the only ones who are,
are those who have recognized what God has done in sending Jesus and are now following, accepting,
and spreading the message about him as the Messiah and the salvation for all humanity.
That's not a popular thing to say today, but I think Paul is fundamentally an exclusivist.
He does not have a separate path for anybody outside of faith in Jesus because he says here,
all are sinners and therefore he's setting the stage and that's why God sent Jesus
to die for the sins of all and to open up the path of faith that he says is also the path by which
all are right with God. I should say a quick word about Paul's understanding of faith here
because faith for Paul is not just a scent to some intellectual propositions. Faith is a
commitment of one's life. It's saying I was a self-centered sinner living according to my way.
God made me to be a God-centered human being and I am choosing now to become what God made me to be.
I'm turning away from my self-centered life that is wayward that brought God's judgment
and I'm turning now to embrace the truth of God as revealed in the teaching and the death
and the resurrection of Jesus. Faith then is a commitment of my life and now I'm going to submit
myself to this God and do what this God says. Faith then is demonstrated in the way one's
live, that one lives, that is your faith is demonstrated in your works. That's here where he
says the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ. It's not just faith in general,
it's not faith in Moses, not faith in the laws of Torah, but it has to be a faith in Jesus Christ,
the Paul for it to be genuine. So he allowed for the possibility in chapter 2 that there might be
within the framework of Judaism, Jews and Gentiles who might be okay, but then he
seeks to demolish that here in chapter 3 and then he spends the rest of Romans unpacking
the implications and meaning of them. One thing on the Pharisees thing that I wanted to mention
about Paul being a Pharisee, this just gets into that whole Paul within Judaism, Paul against
Judaism school of thought. How does this work if Paul is a righteous Pharisee, he's zealous for the
law? How is he saying in one breath here in Romans that that just doesn't cut it? I was a wicked
sinner, I was the greatest wicked person of all, yet I'm this righteous zealous, he is almost saying
it's impossible, like the camel entering the eye of a needle kind of thing, because he's like,
I was so about God's law and so righteous as a Pharisee, yet that's not enough and like he
comes back to this Christ thing. Paul actually addresses that in Philippians 3 and this is
where Paul is not saying, I suddenly came aware that I was a sinner, not that I had violated
laws, Paul really doesn't say that. He says in Philippians chapter 3, when he's talking about
if anyone has reason to be confident in the flesh, I have more, circumcised on the eighth day,
this beginning in verse 4, circumcised on the eighth day, a member of the people of Israel,
the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew born of Hebrews, I mean I've got the really the core lineage here,
as to the law of Pharisee, as to zeal, I was so zealous, I persecuted the church,
as to righteousness under the law, blameless, as to righteousness under the law, I was blameless.
And I said similar thing in Galatians chapter 2, where he says to Peter, we're not Gentile sinners,
you know, we're not sinners like all those Gentiles are, we ourselves are Jews by birth and not
Gentile sinners, yet we know that a person is justified not by works of the law,
but through faith in Jesus Christ. So this is a part of that again, that idea that Paul knows the
answer and he reasons back not very well to the to the problem, you know, because he doesn't
acknowledge he was the worst of sinners. And he says Jews are not Gentiles sinners in the way that
Gentiles are, but he wants to argue for his rhetorical purposes in Romans 3, as if that were
the case. And we have those Galatians examples too that we might get to. Yeah, so don't expect Paul to
be rationally coherent. He knows the solution he wants to get to, and he's going to get there by
hook or by crook, because if there's one thing he's persuaded of, and you can chase his back to his own
conversion experience, is that Jesus, who he's tried to persecute and stamp out, appeared to him in
some way, he's rather vague about it himself, and turned his life around and said, everything you've
been doing to this point is wrong. And you now need to be launched into a new path, there's a new
era come, you now need to go out and tell the Gentiles that. Blue is mind. And so, you know,
a lot of what Paul is doing in his rest of his life is trying to make sense out of all that.
I won't say Paul always does make good sense out of it. So the last example we have from Romans
is in chapter 10. Yeah, before we get to a couple of words about intervening chapters,
chapter 4 then he gets into the question, what about Abraham? Because after all, the scriptures
clearly say, the people of God are the descendants of Abraham. These Gentiles are not descended
from Abraham. And that seems to exclude them, right? And Paul pulls this ingenious jujitsu here.
He says, well, you know, in chapter 17, where it says that all the descendants of Abraham are going
to be the people of God, need to be circumcised. But you know what, before that in chapter 15,
before Abraham is circumcised, it says, God told Abraham he's going to have all these children,
and Abraham believed or had faith in or trusted God, and God counted it to him as righteousness.
He accepted Abraham as being righteous before he was circumcised and didn't have any laws.
What do you know? So Abraham is showing you don't have to be a Jew, you don't have to have the law,
you don't have to even be circumcised to be acceptable to God. Abraham is the model of the
faithful Gentile. And so even Gentiles can be descendants of Abraham, not in a literal sense
that a Jew is, but in a spiritual sense, following the example, as he says, of faithful Abraham.
And he says, these stories were written not just for them, but for us, who have faith in Jesus,
so that we would know by looking at this end of chapter four, we would know by looking at Abraham
and his faith, but that's God's path. And now we will respond in faith, even though we didn't know
this God of Israel beforehand, we can now know that faith is the way people are accepted by God.
Pretty ingenious that he can say this happened before in the text. He's making a biblical argument
against another biblical argument. It reminds me and could tell Berthelot's work, which me and
Stephen have dug into. She wrote on Jews and their Roman rivals when Rome was pagan Rome,
before they became Christian Rome, and their influence on Jews, which a lot of scholars kind
of don't really pay attention to. They always see the impact of Christian Rome on Jews and stuff.
There's this rabbi in one of the, in her fifth chapter, the final one, where this rabbi approached
where a convert is coming to Judaism and they're saying, hey, they're converting. Can they say
the prayer, the Deuteronomy 25, the God of our Father prayer? And the rabbi goes, no, Abraham is
not his father. And then another rabbi comes in and the rabbi says, no, you need to read the
scriptures. So this reminds me of Paul, because then this other rabbi says, he says his name was
Abram, standing father or something like that. And it was changed to Abraham, for he would be the
father of many Goyim. We get back to that story. That's Paul's argument. So then the guy says,
he can say the prayer, hold on, this guy's not even a Jew, and he's joining the club. And because
this scripture says that he would be the father of many Goyim, the contemporary understanding
of the term Goyim here, not in its original Genesis context written in fifth, sixth, seventh century
BC, whatever. It's meaning non-Jew or non-Israelite. So this rabbi, like, don't you see, it's already
written in our text that non-Israelites would be the children of Abraham. Duh, you can say the prayer.
So it's a funny, jiu-jitsu thing you're describing. It's a quote from the Tosefta,
Tosefta Barrico. That's what that quote's from. Yeah. And Paul actually goes a step further than
that. He's over in chapter, 1 Corinthians chapter 10, and we have part of this on our slide later,
but I just want to look at it. He starts out, he's talking, starts using an extended example
from Exodus in order to make a point about, well, I'll just leave it, make some certain points
about Christian behavior. I want you to be, I don't want you to know, it's written in Corinthians,
who most everyone would say, these are non-Jews. These are, you know, Gentile Christians. I do
not want you to be unaware, brothers and sisters, that our ancestors were all under the cloud.
Wait a minute. Our ancestors. Well, is Paul just kind of making an illusion now just to we Jews?
Well, as you go, it could be, but you're going through the passage and it doesn't work out that way.
All our ancestors were all under the cloud. They passed through the sea. They had the
baptized and the Moses, et cetera, ate the same food, et cetera. God wasn't pleased them. Verse
six, now these things happen as examples for us so that we might not desire evil. Don't become
idolaters. Don't do this, that, and the other. And then down to verse 11, these things happened to
them to serve an example to instruct us on whom the end of the ages have come.
We who live in the last days, when God is introduced act two, now in some sense by faith
in Jesus, these are now our ancestors through Abraham. And so he doesn't only incorporate
Gentile, say, okay, Gentiles, you can do some Jewish stuff. He wants to say that it is Christians
who are fully what God wanted his people to be in the Jewish scriptures.
They literally become adopted. In some sense, have more claim. They're adopted,
but a lot of the, and he goes on with Fr. Romans 12, he gets inside. Yeah, I mean, it's complicated
stuff, but he's got to complicate. He's arguing in the background, and we don't see this,
with his own Jewish, whole Jewish upbringing and framework of life and understanding,
as well as that of other Jews in his day, knowing what kind of arguments they're going to bring
against him. So he's always got this little Jewish voice playing in his mind, giving him these,
you know, traditional Jewish interpretations of scripture at Israel and covenant and all these
kind of things. And so he's kind of framing the meaning of Jesus and the meaning of his message
and salvation in a way that it has to, it has to either reject or fit into or extend
that kind of Jewish whole worldview that he still accepts as valid.
I also remind it when Stephen brought to my attention in the, in the Hermenei commentary on
Hebrews when I did Harold Attridge interview, where it's the part two thing, you know, in
times past and sundry times and whatnot, but in our day, and here you are, boom, Hebrews is kind
of capitalizing on Paul, going beyond Paul, but nonetheless, still there with Paul's thinking
that you're describing. Sorry for interrupting. Yeah, and he even can say over in second Corinthians,
give a little further feel, but it's still worth bringing in. I mean, we as Christians don't think
about those of us who are Christian background, don't think about how audacious some of these
claims are. I mean, similarly, he in second Corinthians, second Corinthians chapter three,
he goes in this long comparison of his ministry with that of Moses and says that his is even
greater. And he says to this day in verse 15, whenever Moses is read, that is the laws of the
Torah avail lies over their minds, that is the Jews, they cannot rightly understand their own
scriptures when they're read. But when one turns to the Lord, that is Jesus, the veil is removed.
And he talks and unpacks that further. Now all of us, we Christians with unveiled faces,
seeing the glory of the Lord, as though reflected in a mirror are being transformed into the same
image from one degree of glory to another, just like Moses was transformed in the presence of
God and glowed afterwards. So he's saying these Jews, they don't understand their own scriptures,
they're blinded. It's only as a Christian, as a Christ follower, someone who recognizes the
meaning of Jesus, you can rightly understand the scriptures. So the radical demeaning of
much of traditional Judaism in a way that was, you can see why when Paul talked like this,
why not many Jews were willing to come along? Yep. Well, let's just quickly enrollment,
I think we have this up pretty quickly. So it goes on in chapter five to say, you know,
we're all justified by faith, the untaxing implications of that chapter seven, it gets
into where does the law fit in? And basically he makes this astounding argument that he's
made several other places that the only reason God gave the law was not because people could
actually obey it and be righteous by it, but so that people would know what horrible centers
they were by their failure to live by it. And therefore again, this becomes part of his rationale
for why everybody, even Jews, needs to come through faith in Jesus. Gentile centers,
Jews are sinners, nobody can live by this. God just gave the law as a preparatory stage
to get Jews ready for recognizing their need for the salvation he brings in Jesus. And he
unpacks that further in chapter eight. But in chapter nine, now he gets, okay, now let me get
into this Jew Gentile thing. Let's really unpack it. I've been in a sense, every, he's been holding
this question in abeyance, knowing it's out there, knowing he has to deal with it. And he's saying
this, all everybody, you know, comes by the same way. Okay, but God made these promises to Israel.
And he said, you know, you'll be my people forever, and I'll be your God forever. So does
this mean that God's untrustworthy? Well, he's our God too. Can we not trust this God? Is God a liar?
Does God change his mind? And Paul basically is grappling with that all through Romans chapter
nine, 10, 11. How can we hold to the truthfulness, the faithfulness of God as we know him in the
scriptures of Judaism, we Jews, while also acknowledging that God is opened up a way for
Gentiles, and that he's no longer that even Jews have to respond in faith with faith in Jesus.
So it makes this long argument where he begins by saying, not everybody who's descended from
Abraham is a child of Abraham. Well, once he unpacks it, most Jews would agree with that.
Because as I said, you look in the Old Testament, there are people who are,
it's who are said that they were descended from Abraham, like he says, I love Jacob,
but I hated Esau. Esau is descended from Abraham. God has a right to accept or reject anybody he
wants among his descendants. So the descendants of God, the two people of God, are those descended
from Abraham who will meet with God's approval in however way that happens. And he wants to
goes on to say God can basically pick anybody he wants. God can do anything he wants. Who do you
think you are to question God, which is a kind of a way of saying sit down and shut up and stop
asking hard questions. And so he says, basically, God has chosen in these last days to do something
different. God's got a plan now to reach out to Gentiles, to make those who weren't my people,
my people. We talked about this in the last video somewhat. And he says, on the other hand, boy,
those Jews, as Isaiah calls out regarding Israel, though the number of the children of Israel were
like the sand of the sea, only a remnant of them will be saved. So this is his, he's using
scripture to say, look, there are a lot of passages in the scriptures of Judaism where only a small
group of Jews are in fact the true people of God and withstand God's judgment. And so he sums that
up by saying, what do we conclude then in Romans 9 chapter 30? Gentiles, I mean, this is just so
standing everything on its head. Gentiles who did not strive, and here Gentiles has to be a
conglomerate term for all non-Jews, who did not strive for righteousness, at least through the
laws of Torah, have attained it. That is righteousness through faith, which is God's true way. But Israel,
who did strive for the righteousness based on the law, did not succeed in fulfilling that law.
And so they are put in the same predicament as the Gentiles. And he goes on therefore then to
limit, he wishes that all his brothers, fellow, fellow Jews could be saved, implying that they're
not. And he goes on then to unpack what we have on our next slide, the passage that talks again
about how it is one is made white with God acceptable to God. And just prior to the portion
Stephen can read in verse 11, he says that the word of faith is near you on your lips and in your
heart, the word that we proclaim, because if you confess with your lips that Jesus is Lord,
and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. Confess with
your lips a verbal prenext pronouncement, not just saying Jesus is Lord and now you've got your fire
insurance, but from now on Jesus is the Lord of my life and I'm going to follow him. Caesar is no
longer the Lord, Zeus is no longer the Lord, no other God is my Lord. I'm choosing to disassociate
myself from all those things and now follow the one way of Jesus. And believe in your heart that
God raised him from the dead, which carries with it some understandings of the death of Jesus,
why do you have to die in the first place, but that Jesus is not just dead, but he's alive and
living presence in the church. I mean, Paul is very big on the invisible presence of Jesus by
the spirit working in the church, which a lot of churches today don't get. You know, Paul was not
just about something in the past, in the life of humanity or something in the past in the individual
believer's life. I, you know, I gave my life to Jesus and became, got my fire insurance. It
doesn't matter what I do. You know, Paul, you be engaging and submitting and led by the spirit,
as he says in Romans chapter eight. So that's what it takes. And then we have this next verse where
he's relating this to his Jew Gentile question, Romans 10 11 through 13. For the scripture says,
no one who believes in him will be put to shame. For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek.
The same Lord is Lord of all and is generous to all who call on him. For everyone who calls on
the name of the Lord shall be saved. So again, everyone, the Jew, Greek language so largely is
just continuing this kind of thing. He began at the beginning of the letter with, you can say,
in neither group who thinks he's got in the back when he talks about Jews and Gentiles,
he's always gotten the background. These are real conflicts in my churches. So when he talks about
Gentiles more broadly, he's never getting away from the real world social tensions that are there.
But sometimes he wants to pick up and explicitly mentioned, we just remember what I said earlier.
You know, you people, you two groups here who in your pride and arrogance think you are better
than everybody else, you're nobody, you know, none of that matters. Lay that all aside. Again,
he's saying there's no partiality. It's the same with all and that text that we just had there.
If you put that back up one more time, notice how many times he uses the word all.
So he's the same Lord of all who is generous to all who call on him. For everyone who calls on
the name, you know, everyone, all. And everyone and all is the same word. It's just the same word.
Exactly. Yeah. And also no one is the same word. Exactly. Yeah. A negative with the same word you
can see on the right hand side. You have to translate it in different ways into English,
but if you're looking at the Greek, you can even see even if you don't know Greek. Exactly.
You don't know Greek. You see that same password there. Yeah. So he says the same,
look, scripture, scripture supports me. Anybody, not just Jews, anybody who calls on the name of
the Lord, kind of back to Derek's example there a minute ago, anybody can call on the name of the
Lord. You don't have to be a Jew to have your prayers heard. It's like, it's like they cherry
picked the perfect little like, haha, I found something that really works. And in something,
something came to mind. I just wanted to throw at you to see if this sticks. Paul sounds like when
he starts that Romans nine thing, like he's been holding this breath the whole time. He couldn't
wait to use the term Israel. He finally decides he's going to let it all out. Okay. Now we're
getting Israel, baby. He sounds like he's making an excuse. Like he's already trying to tell people,
even the Jews who might hear his words like, look, you guys know, not all Jews are going to be chosen
in an elect. Okay. We got it right here. Only certain ones. Well, you want to know why this is
all part of the plan. Before this, there was a stumbling block. They just aren't getting it.
It's this problem that keeps coming up. This is also part of God's plan. And then only a certain
amount of Jews are getting this thing. So he's already making kind of what seems to me being
an excuse. He's making an excuse for what the heck is happening here. Oh, exactly. I mean,
the whole of chapters nine through 11 is basically trying to explain this inexplicable experience
of his as a missionary preacher, that these Jews aren't getting it, you know, and the Gentiles do.
And that's where if we continue on here, his answer is his puzzled everybody over time,
because ultimately he says in chapter 11, we don't have that here, chapter 11, beginning in
verse 11, talking about Israel. He uses Israel because he's doing a lot of biblical quotation here.
And so he wants to hear that resonance in the Old Testament text. Israel is sometimes named. He
wants to maintain this linguistic continuity and continuity of the Old Testament text. So I ask,
have they, that is the people of Israel, the Jews, the Israelites stumbled so as to fall? Has God
given up on all the Jews? By no means. But through their stumbling, salvation has come to the Gentiles,
so as to make Israel jealous. Now, if their stumbling means riches for the world, and if their
defeat means riches for Gentiles, how much more will their full inclusion mean? And he goes on to
say in chapter 12, and here's the answer. God actually hardened the hearts of the Jews.
They don't have a choice. Most of these Jews are just like God hardened Pharaoh's heart back in chapter
nine of the same letter in order to work out his purposes to rescue his people. So he says,
God has hardened the hearts of the people of Israel so that people like Paul will go out to the Gentiles
because that was God's plan. And if he hadn't done that, the Jews would have just kept all
this to themselves. Obviously, that's about a generous reading of possibly positive Jewish
responses to Paul's message about Jesus and all that kind of thing. But maybe you would have had
only a small group of Jews, and they are the only true people of God. God's plan was bigger than
the Jews, according to Paul. And so how do you explain this? God hardened their hearts, made
them unable to believe, so the message would go for step one, it's a two step. Step one,
harden their hearts so Gentiles would come to faith because step two, he expects at the end of all
things, the Jews are going to be jealous of what God is doing with the Gentiles, and they're going
to come to faith in Jesus. He actually says, all Israel has been debated. Does he mean literally
every single Jew is going to acknowledge Jesus? Or is he using it more likely? It's just kind of an
all-encompassing term. That is, Israel as a whole, a vast number of Jews are something like that. But
he says, God's not given up on Israel. God's not given up on the Jews. God's plan at the end of
everything. Right somewhere associated with the kind of conclusion of all of history has
got to be this massive turning of Jews to faith in Jesus. And therefore, God has not abandoned it.
God remains faithful to them. He just had this kind of a bigger plan, not just a side plan. Okay,
I'm going to sneak these Gentiles in here, but it's part of a bigger plan. Like you said, going
back to Abraham, a host of nations will be descended from Abraham. God's plan from the beginning, he
says, was to include Jews and Gentiles. But it was only through the sending of Jesus, which was
prepared for by the Israelites all these centuries and centuries to recognize it. It was only in that
way that God could have prepared a people to hear his message, to carry it out to the Gentiles,
which eventually bring Jews in. And Paul's mission to the Gentiles, just that mission,
like he acts even in his letters, like it's, I'm almost done with that mission to the fullness of
the Gentiles. It's coming soon. It's happening, then the Jews will get it. It's exactly. He thinks
it's going to happen very soon during his lifetime. He makes that point several places in his letters.
So he really believes he lives in the end times, maybe next city he's going to go, all the Jews
are going to suddenly respond to him. Now, is this just wishful thinking? Is this just as you're
seeing a way of rationalizing away his actual experience? Or is it really going to happen?
Obviously, Christians who've understood this through the centuries have looked forward to an
end time conversion of Jews, has gotten caught up in all this state of Israel. Jews returned to
Israel and rebuilding the third of the temple and the Messiah coming to the temple. And all
these speculations people have about how all the events of the end time have to work out.
And that's going to involve all that, which I think is a complete misreading of Paul and a
misreading of the scriptures. But nonetheless, we can spend another whole program on that if you
wanted to. But I think Paul does think the end is coming soon and that he himself is going to
lift to see this turning of the Jews. And then everyone will be embraced and kind of over to
chapter 15 to wrap this up. You know, God's ultimate purpose is to receive praise from all of them
together. So he says in chapter 15 verse 8, for I tell you that Christ has become a servant of
the circumcised, that is of the Jews, on behalf of the truth of God in order that he might confirm
the promises given to the patriarchs. That's the whole argument he's been making, is that God is
not unfaithful to the promises he gave to their ancestors all the way back to the Abraham. He
just has a kind of convoluted way of carrying out. And in order, and in order that the Gentiles
might glorify God for his mercy. And then he got several verses, quotes from the Jewish scriptures
about Gentiles and Jews singing praise to God. As it is written, therefore I will confess you
among the nations or among the Gentiles and sing praise. This is where knowing it means Gentiles
and nations matters. Literally in the Psalm, I said I will confess you among the nations and sing
praise to your name. But Paul reads it as the Gentiles. And again, rejoice, oh nations with his
people or rejoice, oh Gentiles with his people. And again, praise the Lord, all you nations in the
original. But he says all you Gentiles, all the people praise him. And again, Isaiah says, the
root of Jesse shall come. The one who rises to rule the Gentiles and in him the Gentiles shall hope.
So God's ultimate vision, according to Paul, is to have a people made up of Jews and Gentiles
who get along with each other, who join together in one people and worship and praise the one God,
who is the God of Israel, of Jews, and the God of Gentiles. Pretty massive vision, if you can accept it.
Oh, you do have to go one step further. I mean, for Paul in the end, of course, that's not the
whole end of the story, because your polity also includes the restoration of the whole created
order. And so the very world in physical world is going to be brought to an end and is going to
be a new world made in which all God's enemies have been defeated and destroyed, and that there's
going to be no sin, no sickness, everything's going to mortal humans will be given immortal body at the
resurrection and live together, not in some airy fairy existence as spirits with harps on clouds,
but rather in a new heaven and a new earth, in new perfected bodies, serving the one God who is there
in the midst of them. And at that point, he says, and this is a problem for a lot of Christians,
Jesus himself will submit himself to God and all and God will be all in all. That's in first
Corinthians chapter 15. There goes your extreme high Christology. So I have a question. Guys,
this whole vision of the duration of Jew and Gentiles that even fits into this broader vision
of the restoration of the whole fallen and broken world and the elimination of sin and evil and
darkness and essentially the restoration of Eden in the in the in the way that God intended,
that's Paul's ultimate vision. So I have a question because you I think a few months ago you said I
should even challenge you on this. So in the first slide that we pulled up that showed in the
Neurovi standard version that there's a whole lot of blurring of the lines and the translations
where you see sometimes you see Ethni and sometimes you see Eddiness and it just sort of it all gets
translated as Gentiles, right? And this is right in front of us is an example of Paul wanting to
use the singular. So he says there is no distinction between a Jew, right, like a singular Jew and a
Greek, okay, where the singular is just a stand in for a class, right? It's a prototype. So there's
no difference between Jew and Greek. He's not saying Jews and Greeks or Jews and Gentiles in
the plural. He's saying between a Jewish person and a Greek person, there's no difference, right?
But he follows up by saying the same Lord is Lord of all. So my reading of this and you tell me if
you see it differently would be that that all, in other words, like everyone, the entire world,
the entire human population is divided between Jew and Gentile in this dichotomy. But he's
specifically using the term Greek here as a singular stand in for Gentile because he doesn't
use the term Ethnikos, which is there is a singular Gentile as Ethnikos, but Ethne,
you can't get the plural of Gentiles and make it singular and have that be a non-Jewish person
because that just means a nation, right? It doesn't go that in that direction. So my theory
is that here, Eudeius means a Jew and Elin means a Greek and it literally means a Greek,
but idiomatically he means it to mean a Gentile, everyone who is not a Jew because it's the singular.
Tell me if I'm right. Yeah, I think it means both. I think when he says Greek, I don't mean to exclude
that he's got in the background all non-Jews, but I think he has particular reasons for wanting to
use Greek in particular contexts and people would, their ears would have perked up. And why does he
do it specifically in particularly Romans and 1 Corinthians? Because according to the most
dominant explanation, interpretation of Romans, and certainly everybody would agree with 1 Corinthians,
he's writing to Greeks, writing to people either were from Greek heritage or wanted to be who
identified Greek identity as being something either they embraced or adhered to, I mean or
aspired to or respected or something or the other. And in Romans chapter 12, we didn't get into it,
but he says, I'm writing to you Gentiles. And there clearly it's a non-differentiated mass of
non-Jews and not to nations about not despising the Jews because there was a lot of anti-Jewish
prejudice in the ancient world. And so he could simply presume that people, no matter whether
you're Greek or not, you're going to have a lot of negative sentiment most likely toward Jews.
But Greeks had a special dose of it because they had the social power and the ideological
cachet, if you will, to be the, you might say they're the Gentiles par excellence when it comes to
prejudice and against Jews. So in that sense, if you want to highlight writing to churches where
you just know there's going to be this mutual negativity, then you need to kind of every now
and then pop Greek up into the forefront to make say, hey, people, I'm talking to you,
not just making some abstract theological argument. I'll give you an example that really sticks to
my mind that makes it kind of come real to me. As I said, I grew up in the South in the late
Jim Crow days. Let me go back to the 19, I can just have this picture I hear in my mind of 1930s
Alabama, some preacher who's preacher, white preacher who's preaching to his congregation,
and he gives this long sermon about how God loves everybody the same and God,
God's no respect to a person and God, everybody can come to God equally. And he says, it's like
it is, like it says there in Galatians 3 28, which you've not gotten to, in Christ is neither
Jew nor Greek male nor female slave nor free black nor white. And he goes on and on and never
mentioned this again. And you realize, even though he only mentions at one time, the whole import,
if his sermon was to challenge the inherent racism of his audience, he's not by how he's saying,
all are equal to God, but he's really saying is black people equal to you.
You know, they are just and so you need to stop all these negativity that you've got.
And so you can just surface it up for a moment there and say, here's how I mean,
do you apply this? Yes, it's true as an abstract theological argument, but it has social implications
for you people who've got discrimination against one another, that you need to respect each other
and get along with it. That's what I think is going on. That's what I'll be arguing in this book
that I've developed and them working on. And interestingly, every time I presented a paper
at a conference arguing for this, people are like, you know, come up to me afterwards and say, boy,
that really makes sense. You know, I just never thought about that. I've never had anybody
to just say, oh, no, that can't be right. Because once they hear the argument, you realize,
yeah, they were Helene, she can't get that you can't unhear. Well, I guess I'm just wondering if
you're an Italian, if you're like a native, you know, Italian born Greek is your second language,
you're just your Roman through and through, you just happen to be somewhat Greek and
cultureated enough to be able to hear this letter being read aloud in your church community.
When you hear this, you know, there's no distinction between a Jew and a Greek and the
singular because Lord is Lord of all, does that person, that Italian, that native Italian,
or a Truskin or whatever, like identify with the term Helene in the singular in that context,
in that letter. This pulled me to address those kind of people. Yeah, let's use a modern example.
If I were a preacher in a multiracial congregation, and I'm saying, you know, so God doesn't make
any distinction between black and white. And that's all they ever talked about.
What about the Indian dude in the, what about the Latinos? Yeah, what about the Indians, etc.
They're going to get the point. It kind of serves both purposes at once. They're going to know
that it applies to them and that they would, at least in American culture,
they would align themselves historically on the side of the black, that is,
those who have been discriminated against and things like that, or they could just accept
the broad principle without making that kind of personal identification. So I, you know,
the more you think about it, it's kind of hard to say to unhear it and unthink it.
Let me, since we're, we're long, long time here, let me just comment on how I think this argument
addresses those four different aspects of the Gentile problem that I raised at the beginning.
And then maybe we ought to just wrap up with a little bit more question. And if you want to
continue and go to these other verses in another, I think this just ended up being a really in-depth
study of Romans, right? Like it feels complete to me, even though we're missing half of our
examples, maybe we could do them in a part two, but we do others in a part two. There are some
additional points in the other verses that maybe say some slightly different things,
bring in some nuances, I think support some things I'm saying and all that. So I wouldn't
hurt if y'all are willing, if we want to do a second part where we finish this up, that'd be
fine with me. So let's say something about how Paul's argument, I think I would argue, addresses
all four of those aspects of his Gentile problem. One, the theological problem. Obviously, he's
provided an answer that at least is satisfactory to him. And whether his audience has accepted it,
who knows about the theological question. God wasn't just kind of messing around back in Israel
to get ready for his real plan with Gentiles. God didn't, in this second act, abandon the Jews.
He's got a way that comes up with an answer that holds together in his mind the integrity of God,
the trustworthiness of God, and the trustworthiness of Israel's scriptures and God's promises and
all that on the one hand, and the God's ultimate plan to go beyond Israel that kind of provides
a coherent. God, in other words, can be understood to be faithful in this scenario if you accept it.
And so that kind of theological quandary about what do you do about God's promises to Israel
and God's kind of negativity towards Gentiles, he's kind of answered that, I think, to his
satisfaction. Again, the people today accept it, with his audience then have accepted it,
that might be a different question. The political question, this is one that I think
would nuance a bit, and just some speculation. Back to this again, the point was that people
were people who wanted to be circumcised and obeyed the Gentiles, who wanted to be circumcised
and obeyed the Jewish law so they'd have the protection provided by Roman favouring of the Jews
and they'd be protected from negativity and being viewed as subversive. I think in a roundabout way
Paul gives them that protection, he takes it away from them on the one hand by saying, well,
you're not going to be circumcised and obey the Jewish law, which seems to leave them naked and
exposed. They're clearly not looking like Jews. But he gives them an ideological argument,
that if you ever hauled in and given a problem about any of this, you say, well, we're Jews too,
we're just a different kind of Jews. And if you could ever get a Roman official to sit there and
take time to listen to you, which you probably couldn't, you could explain how, see, we're the
sins of Abraham also, but we just kind of got this other track over here. And so even if it
didn't make a real social difference, it could give them a confidence that they don't have to be
circumcised and obeyed. They got an ace in the hole, you know, that could protect them. They could
argue to somebody who doesn't know much about Judaism, which is another form of Judaism,
and they might get away with it. Who knows, but just some speculation on my part.
The social side, I think I've made pretty clearly the issue about
inter-ethnic prejudice. He's got to get these people to work together,
live together, expect each other and have each other in leadership and all this in their community.
I think both ideologically and with these Jew-Greek language
references, he's kind of done that. And pretty well, I think pretty effectively addressed that
and made it very difficult for people to maintain those kinds of ethnic prejudices.
You're going to be a follower of Jesus and part of this community. That might be maybe the most
effective aspect to his argument. And then finally, the missional aspect, the question of,
what is God, what's going on with my missionary results? Well, now I understand it.
I'm okay with continuing to do what I'm doing, preaching primarily to Gentiles. I already believe
that's what God's mission for me was, but I've got an explanation now for why I don't need to worry
too much about all these Jews who are not responding to me. God's got a plan. They're going to come
around eventually. So let's just get about the business. Maybe you still, as we said earlier,
does go to synagogue and start out. But maybe this helps him to not be too worked up and anxious
about how things are working out. Because he says, God's got a plan. I've got a role to play.
In fact, he says, God's going to hold me accountable. He believes he has got a unique role to play
in God's end time plan for the salvation of Gentiles. And God's going to hold him accountable
on judgment day for how he carried that out. Well, he's pretty full, got a pretty high opinion of
himself. And we can get into how he's scriptural based. I think he identifies himself to some
degree like the servant of the Lord in Isaiah and proclaiming the message of Gentiles and this
kind of thing. But that's another kind of a biblical interpretation kind of thing. So
I'm going to stop there and say not that we've answered everything in ways that we today necessarily
can say, oh yeah, Paul's right on that. But in ways that we, I think we can say, okay, I see Paul's
argument. I see Paul isn't just talking about these things in a vacuum. But I think Paul has his
bigger concern, bigger set of questions. And at least in a way that he finds satisfactory,
I think he would have thought, yeah, I ace that, you know, I dealt with that. They really ought to
accept this, even though we've seen there are holes, there are problems that people could
pick with his argument. I'm going to stop there. Just a few comments I'll give. And then Steven,
if you want to make a question or comment or something, then we'll wrap things up. Something
that comes to mind, I mentioned Paul sounds like he's making an excuse. And it made it sound like
I thought his motives were maybe bad. But I'm not trying to necessarily say that. I'd say he's
searching, like in his scriptures, the same way a modern Christian in light of, let's say their
candidate didn't end up as president, or let's say there, something went haywire in America,
like there's a flood. Oh, well, we know what that was. It was the sodomites in California,
or something. You know, they got a biblical precedence for explaining what's going on the
ground wherever and whenever they're living. And Paul seems to be all about that. But also
something interesting that I thought about is how the Gospels seem to go beyond Paul. Paul seems to
have this imminent apocalyptic kingdom of God kind of, it's coming soon. It's going to happen.
The Gospels pivot from this, it seems a literal kingdom manifestation of the kingdom of God
happening to spiritual. It's in you. I disagree with you on that. But you take a different
approach. I think fundamentally that the idea of Jesus as an apocalyptic prophet who expected
the end to come soon is the one that does the best justice to the text. So maybe we can talk about
that another time. Or you talk with others who are gospel scholars on that. I think you actually
feel it's moving more back in that direction. That it was Jesus that thought this. Yeah,
that Jesus was an apocalyptic prophet. At some point, you might say with Albers fights, or,
and he was wrong. So you disagree that Jesus thought he was an apocalyptic prophet, that the
end was near and that. No, I think Jesus did think, I thought you were saying they kind of move away
from the imminent end time and make it more spiritual. And I said, no, I think Jesus literally
expected the end to come. Oh, no, no, no, we're talking on the same page then. Yes. Okay. And I
think Paul still has that is my point. And then what I'm saying is I think the Gospels come in
like Luke, the later Gospels, Luke and John, and they want to take it from horizontal histories
ending to vertical heavenly. And it's like the kingdom of God is in you. Stop waiting like you
think the kingdom of God's going to intercede into history and change all things. It's like it can
change right now kind of thing. Not saying they let go completely of the idea that there was going
to be a change in human history, but it seems like they're not both and not an either or. Right.
But that's a whole different discussion. All right, Stephen, I'm doing well. Yeah. I mean,
so that to that point, I think it's also curious when you start really digging into the references
to the end as opposed to the ends, the like the eon or the age as opposed to the ages,
the ages of ages, like is it eternal? Or does it mean that one age cuts off and another one
begins or they overlap? Like all that stuff is just really deep into the weeds. And it's very
interesting. Yeah, but I would simply sum up my thoughts on this is just that what we presented
here today, especially in that first slide where you see that Paul is using language in a particular
way and he's labeling people in particular ways, it is by no means exhaustive. So, you know, you
can find in the Bible and the Greek in the Hebrew, many, many, many references to foreigners, you
know, Xenia, like, you know, non non Jews, like we there are so many, there's there's such a rich
vocabulary. Paul is only taking a slice of it and using it in his own way. But like if we pulled
up a comparison of all of the terms, you know, because I've just dug into them, there's just so
many. And really, it's that, you know, like just even even like the singular Gentile is a term like
you find it in Matthew, you find it in like some of the epistles, you don't find it in Paul, he just
doesn't use it. So this all this is all sort of like, you know, Paul is sort of ground zero for
this bifurcation of people into Jew and Gentile. And after Paul and into the Gospels, you get like
a bit more development into it. And we just didn't have the scope to cover that. We're really just
focused on Paul and how Paul is using language and how Paul is is categorizing people. But
people should just keep in mind that when you know, you see that slide and you see that list,
that isn't all there is. There's much more to dig into this topic.
Skim service. Go to part two if we like. Yeah, love to. I definitely appreciate you. Everybody
go down in the description. Check out Dr. Stanley's links. They're all there. His books are there at
the Amazon link. You get all his books. Make sure you check out his material. He is very
detailed and into what you would call exegesis and understanding what's going on,
even if his exegesis is pointing out how isegesis is happening. It's really fun to see how he's
showing Paul is actually doing the very thing that I like to say, hardcore fundamental, you know,
Christians think is their accurate understanding of scripture. You got to exeget it. It's like,
well, the authors of the New Testament are kind of reinterpreting in their own understanding. Ah,
so maybe, maybe some of those people are more progressive in their understanding of things
are right on the money there. Go to why you got this screen up. I got you coined it right here.
I just want to say I said this earlier, but the novels, you know, I've started writing his first
two books of historical fiction trilogy, they are the best way that I know and to immerse yourself
in the social world that I've been talking about. And there's a lot in them about Judaism and how
people viewed Jews in the ancient world and interaction of Jews and non Jews. And if anything,
that's one of the central themes in these novels and Jewish identity. So if the things we've been
talking about today, we want to know more about the, the kind of real world lived out experience
of these things. Yeah, rather than reading an academic tone, get ahold of those two books there.
A Rooster for a Skelepius is the first one, a bull for Pluto completes the story. And then the third
one I'm just starting to write will extend the story to the main character to Israel in the
years leading up to the two and through the Jewish revolt against the Romans in 66 AD.
And they're unaudible. So the website, they're audible also. So if you prefer to listen as I do,
I've got a wonderful reader who really makes the characters come alive. So the website here
is where you can find out more about them and where you can click on purchase links for them,
et cetera, et cetera. So check it all out. Check out the websites, ladies and gentlemen,
check out the previous interview. Did Paul misuse scripture? And of course, this is the one we did
over 16,000 views. If you find yourself confused by people who are telling you something other
than what you heard today, like let's say Gentiles or lost Israelites, or I don't know,
something crazy out there, just center yourself on people who know the languages and know the
culture and know the context and have read this literature can read it in its original tongue
and can parse it out like Dr. Stanley did today. I really encourage people to do that. I'm saying
that as an amateur, as someone who doesn't even know these languages, but I've dealt with enough
out there and I've seen the weird stuff that comes out there in the world. I recommend you just
center yourself at least for the at the very least. Let's say you think, well, I think these
scholars are wrong. Cool. Cool. Understand what they all say before you draw your conclusion
and then prove them wrong. That's exactly what it's all about. And learn Greek.
It's not going to me too. Amen. Amen. Amen. Well, thank you so much, gentlemen. Thank you guys.
It's been a lot of fun. Thanks guys, Stanley. We are MythFishing.
