Ladies and gentlemen, today I interview Zara Kay and I hope you guys stay tuned to consider
the voice of someone who came out of Islam, who was born and raised in a family who is
still practicing Islam.
She left Muhammad and Allah and the whole religion behind.
Now, she's no longer a believer.
But she describes some of the horrible things that happen along the way as she leaves the
faith and is starting to be outspoken about the things she once believed.
I hope you guys enjoyed this video.
Stay tuned.
Check out my Patreon to get early access to all this material to keep me doing what I'm
doing.
Love you guys.
We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision podcast.
Another host, Eric Lambert, ladies and gentlemen, I've been taking a scalpel to the religion
of Islam.
I want to take a deep dive into the Quran.
I want to check out the Hadith, you know, all these claims that a lot of the critics
of Islam mention and a lot of Muslims will try to say or defend and their apologists
come back and forth.
But I also talk about deconversion stories and people who've left cults like Scientology,
Jehovah's Witnesses, etc., etc.
The list can go on.
Christianity is no different.
And especially Islam.
And today we have Zara Kay joining us.
And she's going to tell us a little bit of her story.
I'm interested to know more, especially when we get into like later on what ends up happening.
You guys don't want to miss the jail slash prison arrest of blasphemy.
But anyway, I digress.
We'll get there.
First things first.
Tell us a little bit about yourself and if there's anything you'd like to plug up front.
So when people hear the story, if they want to go and support you, they can go down in
the description and check it out.
Perfect.
Thank you so much for having me.
Yeah, definitely agree.
Islam is no different to Christianity when it comes to, I guess, if not worse, how they
treat apostates or people who disagree, even Muslims, moderate Muslims who disagree with
fundamentalists.
My name is Zara and I was, I'm Tanzanian slash Australian now in Europe.
I was born and raised in Tanzania, which is not a Muslim country.
It is technically a secular country and this is important because we'll get into it later.
And then I lived a lot of my adult teenage life in Australia.
So I became Australian and then pretty much just traveled around Europe working and did
my activism, running my charity, Faithless a Jobby, where we have a few different programs.
One of them being our mental health program where we help ex-Muslims with a lot of the
trauma they have from being closeted, working through having a bond in their families, but
also the repercussions of what happens when you leave religion and the subconscious guilt
and tremendous amount of betrayal that you felt because at some point you believe that
to be true and most of your life was all around religion, like Islam specifically.
I think when you're born, you have this idea that you're a Muslim full stop and then everything
else comes.
You have to pray every day, otherwise you're such a huge sinner and prayers always took
precedence compared to like your uni work, your homework, everything, right?
And that's like five times a day, waking up in the morning, evening, fasting had precedence
over your physical health and reading the Quran as the form of therapy had more precedence
over actually seeing a professional.
So it's pretty much what it sounds like a cult where you're so engulfed in a lot of these
ideas from what hand you eat with, with how you enter the bathroom or what hand you use
to clean yourself and when you think about it, that I'm speaking about, it is definitely
very control driven.
It's not just, hey, don't steal or believe in God, it's very much like this is what
you're meant to do or else you're accounting for sins.
So I guess asking the question is really redundant to say you were a Muslim.
So you were born into this, this was your life and I guess how many years would you
say you were a Muslim?
I have mentioned this in previous podcasts that I realized I was an atheist later on
in my life, but it was since I was 14, like I stopped praying, I'd fast on and off and
the concept of God was never a God that I was fearful of.
Because I come from I guess an engineering mindset, believed in science, it was always
about what I do and the outcomes of it, not praying and then hoping or wishful thinking.
But it's always the opposite now when I think about it, when I talk to my siblings and anything
right and I'm like, oh yeah, you know, I'm waiting for this and they'll always go like
if God wills and I'm like, I was never like that.
I would never go like, oh, if God wants, if God wills, I think I was an atheist long
before I actually renounced my religion in public or even to myself.
I think for the longest time, it was my identity that was so closely tied with a lot of what
I do, you know, from how I dress to, I guess, what I do when I'm on my periods to walking
home at night.
As a woman, there were so many stories from the hadiths or things that our parents would
tell us about being possessed by an external entity, the jinn.
And you know, if you're on your periods, you have a higher chance of getting possessed.
So like very, like the littlest of things were so controlled and you don't even realize
it, how it just makes up your entire being.
Now I'm aware some people have had it differently.
Some people would say, oh, my family, they don't wear hijab and I'm like great, but you
know, it is an obligation for Muslims to wear hijab.
It's in the hadith.
It's also in the Quran, but not specified how to wear it.
Just who do you need to wear it in front of?
But neither are prayers and how you will, neither is how you pray written in the Quran.
It comes from the hadith and you'll see different sects praying differently.
So some of them will fold their arms, some of them will not.
And some of them will have extra prayers.
Some of them will have different timings of the prayers.
Some of them will combine it.
And it's always like, oh, we are the right ones.
But the most convenient thing is that even Muslims among themselves would never really
talk about it.
I remember when I was young and I would watch TV and you'd always see the Shia, so I'm from
a Shia, denomination, which is the minority, not the smallest minority, but a good crazy
kind of minority.
And then there is a Sunni who are a bit more, in our opinion, like the Shia see the Sunnis
as being more radical and vice versa.
And I remember being young and I used to tell my dad and I'm like, you know what, the problem
with Muslims is they have so much division that they can't even decide that we're all
Muslims and this is how you literally break people apart.
And you know, for the longest time I was like, I'm not a Shia, I'm a Muslim and that's it.
Like you can't change my mind about it.
And my parents slowly told me, they're like, no, you're a Shia, you have to pray this way
or you have to get married this way or you have to do this a certain way.
And all of that was just like, how do they not see it that we're all Muslims?
And I think slowly that kind of started breaking apart for me.
You know, I did a live yesterday on this topic, like what is my goals and plans with Islam?
Right?
Some people have already got really triggered because I did a video with me like holding
my chin like this and I said, a lot of Muslims are commenting on my post that have nothing
to do with Islam, making truth claims, Islam's the truth and Muhammad is his prophet and things
like that.
And I said, maybe a myth-vision family, maybe I should give them something to comment about.
What do you think?
You know, like triggering a few people, just being a little hype, you know, being a guy,
I'll give them something to comment about.
I'll do videos about Islam so that they understand I'm taking a critical scalpel to the Quran,
to the Hadith, to the religion altogether.
And I did the live and let Muslims come in.
Wouldn't you know it exactly what you said rang true.
Two of these guys start debating.
I'm talking about for like an hour over, does the Quran permit marrying Aisha at nine years
of age where Muhammad's 53 has sex with a nine-year-old and this and that.
And they're arguing over this Quran statement.
And one of the guys goes, no, this is post, you know, a woman having period.
And the other one's like, no, this is prepubescent.
And like they're arguing.
And one of them calls the other one a, no, worse, what's the Taliban?
He literally said, you're a Taliban near this.
And I'm like, hold on, did you just call him like the hate among each other for like
different stances on the Quran and interpretations?
So anyway, I just thought I'd mention that to point out like the same problems
happen in Christianity, it happens in Judaism.
It's the same thing.
Absolutely.
For the longest time, I felt like I'm not a Christian.
So I will never know how to defend myself.
And Islam is definitely something I can talk about.
And then I looked at the verses of Timothy and I was like, oh, OK, so you're no different.
Like women are still sex objects and women are still your property.
And you know what I find really funny that the far right Christians
and the Islamists who people don't see as far right because they're people of color
have so much in common.
Basically, Islamists are the far right as well.
They're just not considered the Western far right.
But they have so much in common.
Talk about homosexuality, talk about racism, really, like, you know,
talk about different genders and gender, gender-defined roles.
Like it's it's really surprising how they just hate each other,
but they have so much in common.
That's a fact. You're right.
If you watch like John MacArthur or any of these right wing Christian
apologists, women should be silent in the church.
Women should this this that like.
And in fact, even to this day and the Christian and the Jewish idea,
women are to blame for why sin entered the world.
They ate the damn fruit and then gave it to the man.
Zara, why did you guys do this?
You see how ridiculous that is, though, like, but can you imagine
me blaming you for an apple or a fruit that you picked?
And God told you not to do it, but you did it and you screwed us all over.
Come on, which is which is also so contradictory when they go like, oh,
no, but we must be protectors of women, like they have no agency.
Like we need to take care of them.
You know, we need to provide for them.
We need to put them on pedestals because they can't think on their own.
And it is actually one of exactly or like without my approval.
And while I personally never grew up like that, not in that strict sense anyway.
There there were bits and pieces of misogyny that were being thrown around
without any further grounding to the like, you know, sourcing as a Islamic scripture.
Basically, until I was 16 and left Tanzania to go to Malaysia,
I didn't know you couldn't wear a hijab.
Like, I it just never entered my head.
Like I would see a lot of the Pakistani or Bollywood actors
with the last name being a Muslim name.
And I'm like, probably they're not Muslim because I had never known of it.
And then I go to Malaysia and, you know, I go to a prayer room in a shopping center
and a woman enters wearing jeans and, you know, long hair, long black hair.
And then there were obviously garments there and she puts it on.
She puts it on, prays, takes it off leaves.
And I'm like, what?
My world just changed.
I was like, you can do that.
You can be a Muslim because that was my primary, right?
If somebody is praying, they're a devout Muslim.
And, you know, there are very rare occasions that I would actually pray,
but I would constantly, like if I was out with my friends, we're also with them.
They're like, oh, we're going to go pray.
And I'm like, cool, I'll go as well because I had to.
But I can't say I truly prayed it unless I really did something or really felt like it.
And it would usually last two days, but not in a long period.
Sorry, go on.
No, I was going to say that it brings me to the question.
You said you weren't raised in like this strict Muslim home.
However, strict or not strict, various levels in which this might
affect and impact the family when you came out and said, look, I don't believe anymore.
I guess it was gradual.
I'm sure nothing was overnight.
Probably this is sound that way, the way you described this.
But when your family saw that you were outspoken, not just that you were like, OK,
I'm just not practicing this anymore.
But I am against this and I'm technically going to protest this this whole thing.
How did they take that and then how did your relationship with them get impacted?
So I was one of the lucky ones before I was an activist.
The first people I told about, I guess, except for my close friends,
but the first people I told about not believing in Islam were my family in 2017.
So not too long ago.
And they were like, oh, you know, it's just a phase, you know, she'll grow out of it.
I'm like, no, it's it's I might not tell people I'm an ex-Muslim yet because I didn't know the title.
But I was slowly speaking out against the homophobia in Islam while being a Muslim.
And I was just so against it.
And my parents are like, my dad called me and he's like, you need to take down that post.
And I'm like, no, it's like, so do you believe homosexuality?
It's right. And I'm like, I'm not here to discuss that.
I'm here to discuss how bullying and judging somebody is wrong.
And he's like, OK, we're done with this conversation.
And, you know, he hung up and I was like, cool, like that, like with my dad,
he's not a very chatty person.
So disagreements is pretty much like, OK, I'll step away, which is fine.
You know, but when I was going to do my first podcast,
I had already separated from my family because I knew they didn't want me to do it.
And I was like, you know what, I'm going to I'm going to do this that can risk your life.
I'm going to go the other way.
And they weren't happy about it.
I just ended up blocking them, set my pace, blocked them.
And then when I did my first podcast, my brother messages me and he's like,
I heard your podcast, I see where you're coming from.
Can you please unblock me?
And I was like, I'm not ready.
And then I do it a few weeks later.
And then we have a chat and he's like, look, I get where you're coming from,
but you don't have to let go of family.
Like we're trying, like we're trying to understand.
And nobody's asking you to pray or anything.
But, you know, we don't want you to be an activist.
It can't be safe for you because he saw, you know, the live comments
and the threats I was getting.
And he was so surprised.
He's like, what?
And then also seeing it from familiar names, like people from my community
threatening me, it was just.
Tell me about these threats a little bit.
I'd be interested to hear like what kind of a this is the most important part,
I think that we need to address, because I can critique the Bible
and Christians do not like it.
They might even hate me.
They don't death threat me.
I've had one guy who ever threatened me.
He was going to beat my ass.
We had an argument.
Then he was talking about, I'll send you to God, you know, like,
but that's not like a direct threat.
Like, yeah, I have had in person.
I have had online threats, like proper threats.
If it's not, I will rape you and your family.
Or I think the first time I did my podcast, I actually mentioned that I'm not
in touch with my family because I need to do my own thing.
I was still getting raped.
It's like, oh, you just want it to be a whore.
You want it to be a slut.
And, you know, and the threats gradually increased, like after the live event was
over, people are like, change your name.
You don't deserve to keep a Muslim name.
And I'm like, my name's not going anywhere.
So when I finally finished the podcast, people are like, oh, you know,
repent and come back to Islam.
Otherwise you're going to burn in hell.
Or, you know, how could you reject the religion of Islam?
Like, how could you talk about Mohammed that way?
Like, you know, I will kill you.
I'll find you.
I've literally posted so many of them to a point that Facebook blocked me
because I posted a screenshot of somebody threatening me.
Like rape and death.
I was in Facebook jail for 30 days and it happened three times.
And I'm like, I don't know what to do at this point.
Like, I just, you guys just have to take my word for it.
But, you know, they gradually got, you know, they increased.
And I was never planning to be an activist at all.
I just did a podcast, the conversion story.
That's it.
That's where it was meant to end.
And I just see that people are threatening me.
And then I went to a debate to where a friend of mine in Australia
was debating one of the his but to hear guys in a university.
And my friend's like, what is the punishment of apostates in Islam,
according to Sharia law?
And he's like, oh, there are many, you know, there are many punishments and whatnot.
And then, you know, a minute later, it's like, yeah, death being one of them.
And I'm like, so why can't you just say that?
And then, and then my friend's like, and you want Sharia law in Australia?
And little did I know that, you know, in a safe country like Australia,
like I'd never sensed that fear or that people like him actually exist.
I thought it was just an online thing.
And he's like, no, I want Sharia law in Australia.
And yes, one of the punishments of apostates is killing.
And that would not be considered as hate speech because he's not trying to kill anyone.
Or he's not threatened to kill anyone.
And I'm like, hang on.
If you said the same thing just about somebody, you know, being a Muslim.
You would be like in jail for that.
That's exactly like kind of what happened with me in Hyde Park in London,
where I actually had somebody threatening me on video.
Right. I have this video.
In person. In person.
In person.
Basically, me and my friend were just walking and this woman
was this Christian woman, not the one who was slashed, another one.
She was criticizing and she wasn't yet she was criticizing.
She's like your prophet married a nine year old or married a six year old and a child.
I went up to her and I'm like, look, they're all ganging up on you and you're alone.
It's not worth it.
And then I left and they saw me talking to her and the person comes to me
and he's like, you're from Pakistan.
How could you not be a Muslim?
And I'm like, why the fuck do you care where I'm from?
Like, even if I told you, you wouldn't know it.
But at the same time, I was just like looking at them.
Starts slug shaming me and what not.
It takes his phone and then starts recording saying, you know,
this woman and me and my friend in this man called all Muslim terrorists.
And if you find her, come speak to her and I'm like, I'm sorry.
That is a malicious video.
That was recorded for the intention of hurting me.
Not that I'd actually said any of that, but he had an intention.
And the police were like, oh, just don't go to Hyde Park
because he doesn't have your address.
He can't harm you.
And I'm like, I'm sorry.
But he literally on the video said that if he finds me outside Hyde Park,
he would hurt me like he actually said, I bash you.
And I'm like, OK, and the police are not going to do anything about it.
And they're like, just don't go to that area.
And I'm like, hang on, you see so many cases of hijabies being
you know, dehumanized and I don't support that at all.
But where are my rights?
Why are you silenced against another minority when I'm the one
who's actually being attacked here?
And I just found that suddenly, like, you know, the police was really curious
that individual police and, you know, she was like, what did your, you know,
the always the question is, you know, how did your parents take it?
And I'm like, I am one of the minorities that actually have
a good relationship with my family.
For the most part, I acknowledge that other people don't.
And it was a battle for me to get to where I am.
But right now in this day and age, my parents are not worried about me going to hell.
They're worried about other Muslims hurting me.
Wow. That says a lot because they believe in hell still.
Yeah, they do. But like they don't they've never they've never actually.
I can't remember. Maybe it's been such a long time.
But I've never actually been threatened with like, oh, you're going to go to hell.
Right.
Like it's never. And I was like, OK, cool.
But, you know, I've seen my family progress because of me from more like these
practicing, you have to pray kind of Muslims to like, you know what, this is your
journey. And like, you know, you do.
Yeah. And like not just for me.
This is for my siblings as well.
Like, you know, I took off the hijab.
But like in some occasions when my sisters don't wear it at the beach,
like, you know, they'll still be long sleeves.
But, you know, if we're going for a walk and it was like a private kind of area
or something, you know, and they won't wear it,
my parents really were never, I guess there were times when I went swimming
and I wouldn't wear it and it was fine.
But they're not as harsh as, I guess, a lot of people who I get coming to
Faithless Hijabi, like the women that I support.
If I can ask, so you're now outspoken, you get all these threats.
One of the biggest things actually that caught my attention.
And I found out about you and was interested in knowing more.
And we talked months ago and I said, Hey, I'd be interested in getting like your
story on what happened, but it was too early.
It was like, it had just happened, too much was going on.
Can you lead us up to what happened, like, but build up the narrative a little bit
on what ended up happening to your arrest?
Yeah.
So as any sane person would do this, they would take the threats seriously
in a country where, you know, there isn't the best justice system.
But I was like, it's Tanzania, I'm not breaking the law.
It's not a Muslim country.
And, you know, I told my friends, I'm like, are you sure I'll be fine?
My friends are like, Hey, you'll be fine.
You know, well cater to whatever like needs you have.
Like you never have to come visit.
You never have to go see your cousins if you feel uncomfortable.
And we had a good deal.
And my brother was going through a divorce.
And like when he got served the court notice and like two days I booked my flight.
But within those two days, me booking my flight, I was like, these are my
conditions. You can't force me to do this.
I can't do this.
I can't do that.
And I'm allowed to go out with my friends, even if it's drinking.
And we both agreed we had a mutual ground.
And I went there and what was meant to be a three week trip extended to
being six months.
But initially I was meant to leave after the end of month four.
And literally right before I was going to leave on the weekend because the
flights, you didn't need a PCR test with COVID or anything.
You just needed a flight back from Tanzania.
And it was like 300 pounds.
And I was like, okay, I'll just book it last minute because I don't
need to prep anything.
So whenever I'm ready to go and the weekend that I was meant to fly, my
brother gets a call from the police and he's like, oh, you need to come in.
And at that point we were like, it makes no sense.
But it it startled my brother a little and I'm like, but you haven't done anything.
Ask them what it's for.
And they're like, oh, we can't tell you over the phone, you need to come in.
And I was like, oh, well, you know, it's probably nothing.
It's probably, you know, you're talking about because there was a church
next to where we lived and the church was really loud.
And we were talking about it on a public group, something like it's probably
about the church, but you have no grounds to not talk about it.
Your people can say they're unhappy with it, but then they can't really arrest
you over expressing your views that you don't like the loud noise.
There's a law and he's called in and he's like, can you come in with me?
And I'm like, sure, I'll stay in the car, but you're going up with a lawyer.
And, you know, we just called a random lawyer, random business lawyer
that we knew, but we're like, we need somebody who knows law just in case.
And he calls me and he's like, five minutes in.
And he's like, Zara, and I'm like, yeah.
And he's like, this is about you.
You need to come in.
And I'm like, what?
He's like, it's about your Facebook post.
And I'm like, why did they call you in?
And he's like, I can't talk anymore.
And he was a loud speaker.
And he's like, just come in.
And he was pretty shaken up because, you know, obviously I'm an activist.
But at the same time, there were no Tanzanian laws that have broken.
And I go in.
So, you know, before I go in and I'm like, I need to tell somebody about this.
I text three people, like my two of my friends.
And then, yeah, three of my friends, I text three random people
in three different times, one in Tanzania.
And I'm like, if you don't hear from me in three hours, you make some noise.
Because why didn't they call me?
And like, why wouldn't they like, hey, this is about Zara, she needs to come in.
And I was like, well, if I'm going to the police, they're likely going to take away
all my devices.
So before I go in, I send a tweet.
Now, I was called in, like literally four or five days after I posted
a photo of two men kissing in front of the cover.
And that led to a lot of threats coming in, even from my community,
my former community.
And I was like, yeah, but you can't do anything about it.
Like there are no blasphemy laws in Tanzania.
But what happened was basically when I went in, they didn't know my legal name.
They didn't know where I was from.
They thought I was Tanzanian because my family is Tanzanian.
And I'm like, no, I'm Australian.
Like, what grounds are you resting me on?
And they got a bit shaken up and they were like, oh, you posted this to post
about the president.
And I look at the post and they were like, and it was basically me
calling the president dumb because he arrested somebody who laughed at him.
Well, not him, but because, you know, I guess he was a very sensitive
president where you couldn't talk about anything.
I was, I was just like, this is so dumb.
Why do you need to arrest people over it?
But that was posted eight months before I'd actually visited Tanzania.
So I was in the UK when I wrote it.
And I was like, this makes no sense.
And then I whispered to my brother and I'm like, this is a setup.
And before my phone was taken, like literally before I get in the room,
I had pressed tweet and I was like going into the police station.
Someone may have reported my blasphemy posts.
Now, unofficial, I had no charges.
Even the police didn't know what to arrest me on because they didn't realize
they would ever get to the media.
Their plan was to get me arrested for a few days, teach me a lesson
and then let me go.
But what happened to be was I made too much of a noise.
Like I was just like, I was like, well, you can't arrest me on no grounds.
And then they start building up charges.
They're like, so where are you from?
And I'm like, Australia.
And they're like, when did you get your Australian citizenship?
And I'm like four years ago or, you know, three years ago or something.
And they were like, where do you attend to me in passport?
And I'm like, I don't have it.
I've never used it.
Like I got my Australian citizenship.
I moved to the UK and never really used my passport.
And they're like, oh, so you're holding two passports.
And I'm like, not really because I lost one.
And they're like, you know, they start building up this charges.
And I'm like, these are unprofounded charges.
It makes no sense.
You don't arrest somebody because they have two passports.
You arrest them if they can't pay the fine for it.
If another passport is found on them or if they've used a passport.
And I was like, you think I can't pay a two hundred dollar fine.
Like I was just like, that makes no sense.
So they start building up more charges.
And they're like, who's SIM card are you using?
And I'm like, Bard, this is my sister's phone.
Or like, you know, somebody from the family gave me a SIM card.
So pretty much, you know, I had a work phone and a personal phone
and they took my personal phone in and, you know, they're like,
oh, you know, who's SIM card is this on?
And they found out it was my sister.
Like, oh, you weren't using your own SIM card.
And I'm like, can you show me that law, please?
And they didn't show me the law.
And so, so the law says, so the law says that you are not allowed
to show identification of somebody else when you're registering the SIM card.
It's like ID fraud.
So I can't go in and say, I am Derek.
And this is my and I need to register a SIM card under Derek.
But if I go and get a SIM card, you need to give a reason
to why you're getting another SIM, which my sister did.
She's like, my sister is traveling, so I'm going to get her another SIM card.
And then I'm and it was all fine.
Like, you know, the company is like, OK, cool.
If you have a legit reason, that's fine.
And, you know, that's how she gave me the SIM card.
And I'm like, can you show me the law?
And they didn't have any.
And they didn't know what to say.
Oh, my gosh.
So they kept doing this and finding ways to.
Oh, yeah.
And they basically lied about they lied in my statement saying that
I intentionally knew it.
I intentionally knew this laws and I didn't comply by them.
And because, like, it was the morning when I went and I got out
at like five or six p.m.
is when they finished the interrogation.
So I didn't actually get out and I'm like, I haven't eaten or drank.
Like, I had water, but I haven't eaten or like had my medicine.
So I'm anxious.
I want to go home and get my meds.
And, you know, they had to stop the interview and then like the interrogation.
And then I waited for another hour in the next thing.
I know they're shoving me in a car and I'm like, where are we going?
And they're like, oh, we're going home.
You live in this area.
Tell us where exactly.
And I take them home and now I haven't been given a warrant.
I don't have my keys and I'm like, you've just put me in a car.
I don't even know where I'm going.
And they basically do an unwarranted house search.
And I had to wait for my sister to get the keys.
And I'm like, I have no idea what's happening.
But it gave me the opportunity to change into something comfortable
because I was like, I can't, it's too hot to wear jeans.
But at the same time, I had no idea why there were like three people in my house.
Are they planting stuff?
We don't even know. Exactly. Yeah.
Because they have done it before.
They have planted drugs in people's houses.
Now we had cameras outside the house.
So we knew that they didn't come in with a lot.
So that was a good sign.
But then at the same time.
They had something to lock it.
Yeah, he could. Yeah, he absolutely could.
It's it's it's not like they didn't try.
They literally would not process my bail.
They my lawyer was like my lawyer was
had conflicting loyalties.
That's what I'm going to say.
My lawyer had conflicting loyalties because when he started off the case,
he told my brother, this is how much it was going to cost.
And then when the news got white and he's like, Oh, well, you know,
why don't you open a fundraiser and get people to support you
and then charges me 20 times what he had said?
And my brother is like, we need to get you out of here
because there is no justice system.
So if this lawyer can do it, he can do it.
But, you know, after the first week, he just did not give a shit.
He took all the money, did not do the work.
My brother was like the one chasing up the police.
And weeks later, like not even weeks later, three days later,
we find out that my passport has been stolen.
They coerced my sister to bring my passport to like my Australian passport
to the police station and my passport has been stolen.
And during all of this, I've been calling the Australian consulate
and I'm like, I emailed you in October.
So this happened in December.
And I'm like, I emailed you in October that I was getting threats from Islamists.
And you told me to report it to the police.
But the police are the abusers.
Like they have been bought off.
And I'm like, you know, these threats have come before where people are like,
oh, we're going to frame her.
And I was like, surely they can't do that.
And they did and they did.
And what was disappointing is that the Australian consulate
didn't want to make that one phone call because they didn't want to break diplomatic ties.
They're like, if we make the phone call, then your case is going to be extended out even longer
because then they would have to find a charge.
Like they're going to have to find with something concrete to put either.
Anyway, my passport was stolen.
And then what was because the news went viral
and I actually went to the media saying they're not dropping my charges
and the Australian government isn't doing anything.
When my charges were finally dropped
and I got a police report for my passport being lost.
The Australian government was like, oh, how do we know my charges were dropped?
And I'm like, did they call you and tell you my charges were filed in the first place?
Do you know what charges I have?
Because I don't.
They never told me my charges.
I never had a charge and they lied to the media.
They said it was over having two passports, but I had I didn't have two passports.
And then when I when I actually had other lawyers
because my lawyer wasn't doing anything, so I had other lawyers in Australia
who went to the Ministry of Department of Foreign Affairs
and they had a meeting and in two hours, my passport was printed.
And when I got my passport and I flew back.
Well, the first time I was detained again.
But the second time when I actually got to fly back,
I gave in my first like when I was in the flight, I wrote my first interview
to the local newspaper and I'm like, this is up to you if you want to publish it.
And then the journalist was actually so surprised because he never understood it.
He's like, if it's a passport issue, why are you reporting to the police?
You should be reporting to the immigration.
And I'm like, you know what?
You tell me because I told you already they didn't know my legal name.
So how is it a passport issue?
When they've given me a visa four times on my Australian passport,
my fingerprints haven't changed.
I came into the country.
They never asked me because I wasn't carrying two passports.
So what happened?
No other there is no other explanation that fits the criteria other than
you caused a lot of ruckus in the Islamist world and they were.
No, so basically when they found out that the media had gone quite high up
and sorry, and that the file had gone quite high up because of the media
and because they didn't have any evidence, they were they knew their jobs
were under threat because the investigating officer and the person
who had initially called my brother or both suspended for a week.
And one of them was I think both of them might have spent a few nights in jail
because every time I went to report, but initially it was every day.
So every time I went to report, you'd see them with the same clothes
and no slippers, but the times previously or the times after
he would wear a proper suit and I was like, this is weird.
And then my lawyer actually told me that, well, yeah,
he had to spend four nights or three nights in jail
because they don't know where your passport is.
And I'm like, they lost my passport.
And my lawyer didn't bother to notify the embassy
because the way things work in Tanzania is if you're a lawyer,
you want to have good contacts with the police for your future cases.
It doesn't matter about your case right now
because you'll be fine, you're a Western woman anyway, and you have money.
So if you're light-colored, that equates to you having money.
That was literally one of the issues where they're like,
oh, you know, you can you can pay for her bail,
but you're not you're not meant to pay for a bail.
And, you know, for for me to get food or for me to get anything,
they had to pay the officer.
I'm like, oh, can you give her her meds, please?
And basically when my passport was stolen,
we actually had one of the police officers who talked to family friends
saying, look, I'm in dipshit because we took a bribe
from one of your community members and I don't know how to get out of it.
So if she goes to the media even more, I'll lose my job.
And I'm like, I don't care.
I am not going to care.
So we had a police officer who did confess to it, but he wouldn't do it.
Like, he wouldn't actually go to his superiors with that
because he'd get in trouble.
But as soon as I came back, because my friends had networks around Kenya as well,
and Kenyan tents near quite close to the Kenyan army,
Kim, the Kenyan army basically knew somebody at the police station.
And it was kind of and this was when I was arrested.
This wasn't even like a few days after I was bail.
This was like during my arrest.
My friends already knew who it was because they found out
from one of the people who that person was.
And now, obviously, I know the name.
I also know that he's from the Community Leadership Board.
I can't name them.
That's fine.
But it was it was no surprise.
It was because I've had threats from them and I've had like literally
that screenshot, which is also in my YouTube channel, that screenshot,
where they're like, Oh, why is she talking about why is she talking
about people's religion?
She has no right to and somebody comments.
Oh, maybe we should frame her for being against the government as well.
And then you see all the comments preceding.
And when I had initially talked about my community doing it,
nobody believed me until I left and there were no charges.
And they're like, wait, so a case like this that goes to international
media comes out with no charges.
It was so obvious that somebody had paid them and because I didn't keep
my mouth shut, you know, it also kind of backfired on whoever was paid.
I have to say this, though.
I mean, like this is the most horrific thing that you can do, right?
In a country where you're supposed to be allowed to speak about this stuff,
it's just not against the law.
You're lucky you didn't end up in like Saudi Arabia or something, right?
Like and get caught. Exactly.
Could you be dead?
Probably be dead or you would convert so you didn't die.
You see what I'm saying?
I have actually had a lot of cases where I've had to ask them,
you're going to have to lie.
We need you alive.
We're going to have to live with.
We've had people in hiding in some parts of India and Sri Lanka
who cannot escape, who can't leave their houses because of this.
So what I got really, really lucky,
but this was like a secular country with corruption.
Imagine what happens to people who.
Are basically in those countries that have those laws and who in their right
mind would want that other than someone who is
like completely absorbed into the end of this whole religion to a point
where they actually take the ideology sincere.
Like if someone spoke against Muhammad,
if someone said, I don't like him.
Sorry, from what I've read about him, I don't like him.
I think he's a bad person, right?
From what I understand about him.
Well, what are you? What?
My prophet.
And you want to actually kill someone about a man you read in a book or
in quotes that you don't even know.
Like it makes it makes no sense.
I've tried finding a Jewish or a Christian equivalent.
And I'm like, I can't.
I can't think of anything that people hold so dear over no rationality at all.
You can have people criticize Gandhi or you can have people criticize
De factro bra and a lot of different people in Jesus.
And I was like, I've never seen anybody try
beheading somebody because of a cartoon.
Now, don't get me wrong.
In history, Christianity has done this.
Oh, absolutely.
But that's why I'm glad we live in a world I do.
And you probably do in a separation of church and state.
You know, thanks for the separation.
I hope it stays that way.
I don't think they ever belong together.
I really don't.
Yeah, no, no, they absolutely do not.
Like thinking about the current situation in Afghanistan
and then the new laws about banning music.
And I'm and people are like, oh, the Taliban will give women rights.
But according to Sharia law and according to Sharia law, so long as men exist
within that realm or around your surroundings, you won't be allowed to work.
You won't be allowed to wear what you want to wear.
So you're pretty much like you're always going to be not even covered.
You're always going to be under the shadows of men.
Um, and like I can understand why there are feminists
who have left Christianity and have gone third wave to being more Miss Andrews.
But what I don't understand is that there is not enough rage
when it comes to Muslim men who stand the same.
Somehow they're like, oh, but it's like it's their culture.
We can't talk about it.
And I'm like, hang on to women for Muslim backgrounds,
not really not deserve the same rights.
Now, in no way am I advocating for unequal rights, be it the other way.
But I'm finding this cognitive dissonance when it comes to feminists
and Western liberals that I think they've just left out women from my background.
And I understand that there are different, like intersectionality
can be perceived differently.
And, you know, there are different layers to the misogyny that we're faced.
You'll hear a lot of people say, oh, but honor killings are not part of Islam.
So I'm like, hang on, let's look at stats and facts.
Where did they exist?
Why do they exist and what leads to it?
And it's really deeply rooted misogyny where, you know,
the punishment for somebody having sex outside of marriage for a woman is stoning them.
And the woman gets a larger, like a bigger punishment than a man
for rapists to marry your rapist, because, you know, it's it's it's called adultery, not rape.
That's interesting. Yeah, in the Bible, there's clear.
Yeah, it's like that in the Bible, Hebrew Bible as well.
If you rape a woman, she usually is sold or at least, meaning the father,
they have the legal right, the dad, right, because the daughter is property.
Exactly. They have the legal right to, like, say to the man who raped,
hey, you owe me 30 shekels, which in those days was a lot, unless you were rich,
you know, you had a lot of money.
But hey, you owe me 30 shekels, take my daughter.
It's like, whoa, can you imagine, like today, the rapist who raped your child?
You're like, well, look, man, you already took the most valuable thing
from her, which is her virginity. She's useless now.
I mean, if that is how your world view kind of looks at women to a point
where, well, her virginity has gone.
The most valuable thing about her.
Get rid of her.
We I don't want this burden the rest of my life because no man will marry her now.
I'm glad we live in the 21st century, you know, over.
Oh, I think I think it's crazy.
Like I was reading up on a lot of honor.
So we've actually started a chapter at Fakeless a Jappy
where we look at honor crimes and the reasons for it.
And it always comes down to women being commodities where they're like, oh, well,
you know, she caused a stain to the family, kill her.
I get so easy for them to turn that switch and you did.
And they live fine with it.
And governments who support it by saying, well, if you kill her
because she's caused dishonor to your family, you're not going to get a larger
sentence, you'll get five years at most.
What do you think that says?
I I feel like, you know, when people talk about honor killings
and when you bring it to light to other Muslims, they're like, oh, this is culture.
This isn't Islam.
And I'm like, the culture and religion are so intertwined that they follow one another.
When religion came into light, it was based on the culture that was present there
and to establish some order and control mostly.
And then they were spread around, you know, where it started from
Arabia and going to East Asia and, you know, be it through war or conquest
or, you know, convenience, because, you know, people didn't know any better.
Why would I pay taxes when I can just be a Muslim and I have to do the bare minimum
and convert and because we already lived in a society that was already quite
sexist, adding more to it didn't seem like a pain until centuries later.
Not cool.
It's been like 14 centuries or something later.
We have, you know, these things that have followed us.
We're in 2021.
We have women that are being raped because they didn't wear the right clothes.
And by right clothes, it'd be they wouldn't cover their hair where you've
told a man to only respect women who cover up, but the majority of the women
in the world do not cover up.
And then we have this issue that also creates a rise of the far right where
they don't, they categorize all Muslim men or all Muslims to be one group
versus a nuanced gray shade.
And, you know, there's a hate being projected.
One, one hates causing another hate.
So like you've got far left that's saying, yeah, well,
look past all together, like, there's no problem here.
I mean, man, they're not that big of a deal.
And then we're watching Afghanistan actually be taken over by Taliban.
Look, leave them alone.
They don't mean harm.
It's like, are you blind?
And then you have the other side that it's so extreme saying all Muslims,
all Islam is evil and like the people and they go so far that they don't find
that it's a gray issue.
It's like saying all Christians are evil because Ku Klux Klan members are Christians.
And it's like, no, like there's if you've ever been to Europe,
there are like Christians who are super liberal in their approach.
They're not literalists.
They say, well, there's contradictions in the Bible.
And I'm just a cultural Christian.
I like to go to church every once in a while.
But and then you go, do you believe the resurrection of Jesus?
Well, it might have.
But I just believe it.
And you're like, you're cool.
Whatever, man, like I think there's some cognitive dissonance, maybe
on why you practice it or there's a cultural reason.
But like you're not out here trying to convert people.
You don't care if people think like you or not.
And yet, you know, I wish that because I don't see Islam going anywhere.
I think it's like such a massive religion that the only thing we could try to do
is like change it and try to reform it and maybe keep educating people
about the cognitive dissonance and show problems with its religion and its
its origins and why it's just as bad off in terms of its complications
textually as the Bible.
Like that's what I'm going to be trying to do on my show, if that makes sense.
Yeah, no, I get it.
I used to be for Islamic reform, but I find that's also a difficult task
to do that everybody who I looked up to for reform had suddenly given up
on it with the rise of extremism, where even Muslims who would listen
to these other Muslims talking about reform would not agree to them
and they would send them death threats, thinking about hijabi models
like Halima Aidan or Arden, Halima Aidan, yeah.
Halima Aidan, she's a Somali hijabi model.
She'll probably get the same death threats as I do because she's still
covering up and she's still praying and she's still a devout ish Muslim
at the same time for you see both of us on the streets alone.
Somebody would probably try to kill us with the threats that we've gotten.
So it's not even a safe world for other Muslims,
which is exactly what I was saying, like my parents fear more about other
Muslims hurting me than they don't have time to worry about hell.
Yeah, they don't have time to worry about it.
They're so concerned about their own supposed family of religion.
Like, ah, that's so crazy.
Like I could imagine, you know, someone saying, be careful of another religion.
You know, be careful.
But when your own religion,
it's like in the ancient world, you had tribalism, right?
Like my tribe versus your tribe.
OK, got it.
Watch out for the Amalekites or the Ishmael, whatever.
You know, I'm giving an example from the Bible, but like,
watch out for those other tribes.
You haven't said, listen, in our own community,
watch out for our own friends that we supposedly worship the same God
and follow the same prophet.
Watch out, you know, because you don't think like us.
So make sure you watch out because you might get raped and killed and murdered
in whatever my parents were just so shocked after what happened.
Like my dad was just like, I cannot trust the community leaders.
Like my dad used to be so devout to the community, let alone the religion.
Like like serving the people that he gave more attention
towards the mosque versus his own business.
And, you know, my fees wasn't paid on time.
And we weren't financially capable to afford, like, you know, four kids
going to school, so it was always like paid late or, you know,
I had to sit outside classes and I'm like, this is a man
whose daughter got arrested when he gave all of his life to the mosque.
And then he was like, I, at the very least, I didn't deserve to go through
what they put me through, because the biggest thing that really hurt
the community was why is my family sticking by me?
It's like, you know, they were against you.
Exactly. They wanted them to abandon me.
They wanted them to go like, oh, you've brought this state on the family.
And I'm like, no, you know, like for the longest time, like I was like,
oh, you don't deserve to like pay for my legal fees, you know.
And they're like, no, no, this is a family issue.
And it was really interesting that a lot of people had never thought
about what impact it would have on my family, like other Muslims
that they're trying to hurt because I'm a Muslim.
Like they never thought about it until I came out and spoke about it.
And I'm like, you know, I did not care because I thought I was from a liberal community.
But it was my family that was more liberal or relatively liberal where,
you know, they've gone on this journey with me and they haven't tried killing me.
But it was never a question.
We were never raised like that.
Good for your parents.
It was it was interesting.
But then I see this other side where I'm constantly working with girls
and men as well, boys and girls and men and women.
And it's always about like keeping them safe, having them to,
you know, getting them to lie for a bit until they're financially independent
and the constraints that has not only on their physical health,
but their mental health as well.
And, you know, that restrictive freedom.
And then what happens when you're public or show your faces, you get death threats.
And for the longest time, I feel like, you know,
there we've kind of been left alone in this.
Like, you know, ex-Muslims get attacked by moderate Muslims.
You get attacked by other kind of Muslims like the extremists and moderate Muslims
who are like, oh, that's not the real Islam that you're talking about.
Like, you know, if you go like, well, Taliban is practicing Sharia law
and they're like, oh, well, that's not the real Islam.
You know, that's what Muslims will say.
And then you'll have the regressive left that will say the same thing.
And then you have the far right where they're like, yeah,
all of you guys should never come to the West.
And, you know, you should never, you know, we don't want anything to do with you.
And then it's just like you're in the middle of so much.
No one knows what's the right and what's the wrong.
You're just an island.
You're just an island where I feel like a lot of the white atheists,
which I mean, Christian Atheists have, you know, have like they call
ex-Muslim activists so brave.
And I'm like, honestly, I don't think I'm that brave as compared to people
who are actually living it in that middle in the Middle East and to families in the West.
But then at the same time, you think about how many battles you're fighting.
It's like you're an island of your own and that now not only do we have
other regressive people like, you know, when you see people fighting for Afghanistan
and I see some videos and they're like, oh, that's not Islam.
And I'm like, are you kidding me?
Or the most ironic thing I saw this morning was a woman with a free Palestine flag,
you know, talking about the Taliban banning music as it's their country, their laws.
And I'm like, the irony is so real when you talk about free Palestine,
but you can't imply like you can't you can't you refuse to leave it.
It's like it's so convenient for you to impose such
extremist ideas on other people as long as you're not affected.
And somehow your empathy is enlightened when you're talking about Palestine
or you're talking about the Uyghur Muslims in China.
Then it's not their country, their laws.
So why is there this hypocrisy, like, and they also come from a place of privilege
where, you know, they live in the West, they are not going to be subjugated.
These are women who don't wear hijab.
And I'm like, I'm sorry.
But in Iran, I have some of the girls that I knew in their 20s in jail for another 20 years.
And you were here telling me hijab is not is a choice.
And I'm like, please, you're you're lying to me.
You're lying to yourself.
And so many times I've had this surge of like young Muslims between the age of like 14
to like 22, 23 women, like, you know, girls and boys.
And yeah, anyway, but I've had them come up with so much hate.
And they were born and brought up in the West.
And I'm like, why, why do you have so much hate?
Like you're 14 years old.
When I was 14, I couldn't give a shit about who said what about my religion.
I was just happy being a child.
And then I realized I saw this TV show in on Netflix.
It was based in Sweden and it was called the Caliphate.
And you see how from that young age that, you know, when they were immigrants or Muslims have
always like kept themselves segregated from the outside community.
And, you know, their kids end up feeling like they're always attacked.
But they're not.
It's only because their parents have chosen that.
Yeah, exactly.
Their parents have taught them to like be segregated in that like
you're, well, one in any country goes, if I went to, not that I would go,
but if I went to Saudi Arabia, I'm not going to, I'm not going to.
But like if I went, if I, okay, so if I went, so, okay, well, example, you know,
I came to Sweden, it's a very different culture than Australian, right?
People are friendlier, they're speaking a different language.
But there are different cultural norms and very different minute things, right?
Like you just don't do this or you just do that.
And this is like another Western country, right?
So it's not very conflicting.
But like I cannot expect that a country would change because I eat, like, you know,
for instance, I eat halal meat, like everybody else has to eat halal meat.
And somehow then the parents have taught their children that, hey,
you see, they don't want to do this.
So they're obviously against us.
They obviously have something against us.
You're already building up walls.
Yes.
Exactly.
And you're already segregating yourself and it goes on for a generation.
I remember growing up and, you know, when the Afghanistan,
the Iraq war is happening, yes, this was in 20s, 2007, 2011.
Around the time there was Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan all at the same time.
And it was all invaded by Western armies.
And for the longest time and even like very recently, you know, my dad asked me,
why does the U.S. have to intervene in the Middle East?
And I'm like, oh, I don't know.
That is part of the United Nations where they're put there.
Like, do you think people want to go outside their comfort zone and fight for another country?
Like, there is a lot of history with Afghanistan, but like in general,
there is a United Nations constitution that governments need to comply by
to keep the citizens safe, like they do in Congo.
It's not just the Middle East.
They do it in other parts of Africa.
You know, it exists, but you never hear about it because, you know, the focus is solely like,
you know, America trying to, you know, invade the Middle East.
And I'm like, and see what happens when they leave.
I mean, they were already more in, I guess, most were already on the side of what Taliban
believe than America's Western ideas.
So like, I guess there's some, obviously, I suspect that wish they could get out of there.
But the majority, it's like a step in a more stricter direction, of course.
But it's like, you know, this is what we already kind of believe.
So really, they're closer to our side than the Westerners who came in and invaded in our land.
I don't know.
What do you think?
I kind of disagree because I feel like for the longest time, like the generations have been
born in the past 20 years, you know, who are adults now and having kids, they've grown up in
the war zone.
So they're likely to believe that America is bad, right?
Right, that's what I mean.
Any invasion is bad, right?
So when they left, they agreed.
So when they left, though, some people were happy until now, slowly, well, obviously,
there's a small minority that we obviously hear about.
But as things go on and things are getting more restricted, slowly, a lot of people are going
to come to realize that this is not what we signed up for.
But it is like, it is exactly the same thing that hate that has been created and that separation
that has been created, where people do see Afghanistan being now led by freedom fighters
because America has left.
They're not our people, right?
And sure, like, you know, America came in to, you know, initially with the wrong intentions.
And, you know, maybe leaving was safer for American troops.
But at the same time, their transition was completely unnatural.
It was unwarranted.
I remember a month and a half ago, I was having calls at the home affairs in Australia, and
they're like, oh, yeah, Afghanistan, like our troops are leaving.
We have some visas open, but clearly not enough for those who did help Afghani,
sorry, who did help the army in Afghanistan, like local Afghans who did help.
And I think it was exactly the same thing, that wall that has been kept without any rationality.
Like, I'm sure, like, you know, thinking about, you know, my family going to the West versus
my family going to like Afghanistan.
And I'm like, you were, you know, you talk about the West not being there,
but you would never live in a country like that.
Neither would I, neither would my sisters or Muslims as well.
Like, none of them would ever live in that.
I see this on YouTube about like Muslims who talk about, should we allow this, this, that,
how good it is.
And you're probably aware of like apostate prophet and other guys on YouTube that do this stuff.
He's like, well, why don't you just move on over to Afghanistan, buddy?
It sounds like that's what you want.
Of course, I very much doubt that that's what they will do, that they would even want that.
Yeah.
To be fair, Sharia law is a concept of thought to us as the justice, right?
But nobody really can agree on what Sharia law even means.
Like, if you look at it in the most fundamentalist sense is what the Taliban is doing.
But would I want to live in a country that has no music?
Even though until I was 14, I heard no music.
Now I can listen to whatever I want to.
Like, would I move there?
No, like, even when I was a Muslim, we were like, oh, yeah, show you law.
And then would I actually live in that?
Do I know what it means?
Like, it's like, it's like you asking every Muslim, like, do you, like,
do you think that the right way for anybody to live their life is to believe in God?
Yes, right?
But then not what comes after it, which is, you know, the belief in God comes with this,
this, this, this, this, this conditions that they haven't really talked about.
Like, I guess most Muslims are better than what Islam preaches because you'll have that tick
button, like, oh, yeah, Sharia law, yeah, perfect.
Okay.
But do you know what that means?
Do you know what that means that you can't apply any makeup or that you will have your face covered
amongst other things, like having, you know, thieves arms chopped off or people stoned to death
for adult, like, adultery and like, fornication?
Like, do you know what would happen to people?
Or like, how law centers, I've heard about those supposedly where they go and they have
this law where if a husband divorces the wife three times, they cannot get back with the husband
unless they have sex and marry another man till that man is sexually satisfied.
And this is not in the hadith.
This, it is in the hadith, but this is in the Quran.
In the Quran.
Yeah.
And so they have these loophole religious centers.
I call them loopholes because it's like finding the, like, it's like finding ways in the law to
kind of like slide secret ways of making things work.
And so they call the local Imam or whatever and say, hey, check it out.
Um, how much for three weeks to marry my wife, you know, do what you want with her.
But I'm tired of her.
She pissed me off, whatever.
And so they go and they pay the man for a couple of days, a couple of hours, a couple of weeks,
whatever, take my wife, marry her until you're sexually satisfied.
And then I'll marry her again because they believe the whole Quran so much that they create these
system that's actually kind of,
I was just going to say, so that's actually part of Shia Islam, like temporary marriage.
It's called Mutam, which is a time-based marriage and similar conditions apply,
but you're constrained by time, which is I will marry you for an hour.
Great.
Okay, cool.
Here's your marriage certificates.
If you're ever caught with the police, with the, with a man who's not your husband,
you can show them that, hey, you are married for an hour or obviously longer.
But then you're right.
You know how when you were talking about your live stream where,
how young does the age have to be?
Is it prepubescent or is it, you know, when a girl bleeds and basically you can't consume sex
until a girl bleeds.
And that's what they consider a woman, but you can marry her before that.
She is meant to cover up when she is about nine-ish in the prepubescent phase.
She is meant to cover up starting then.
And what is interesting is that once you divorce the people, like, you know, she,
she can technically marry your father as well after you divorce.
She can.
She can.
Yeah.
So like.
Marry your dad.
Yeah.
So, but also first cousins, first cousins, you're allowed to marry.
So you're meant to cover up.
So basically the rule is you cover up in front of people you can marry.
Ah, so, and that's, I've heard, I don't know how true this is.
There's a lot of incest that has happened throughout the Middle East.
First cousins.
Yeah.
First cousins.
Pakistan is, it's a very cultural phenomena, but like also thinking about Muhammad's
daughter was married to his cousin, his first cousin Ali.
So that's kind of incestual.
They're still first cousins, still genetic line.
But it's really funny when a lot of people talk about, you know, atheists have no morality.
They believe in incest.
And I'm like, hang on.
We were talking as though Muhammad's daughter did not get married in an incestual relationship.
Like what the hell is going on?
And it is so funny how whenever they talk about the morals of Muhammad, they're like,
oh, but you know, Khadija was older than him and he was 25 and she was 40 something.
And then I'm like, oh, okay, great.
So why does a 50 year old marry somebody so young?
Like 20 years later, why?
It's not like she was a widower.
It's not like she had kids.
It's not like they had kids.
It was never for the purposes of them having kids.
If God was all knowing, then surely he would know that they're going to have kids,
but nope, it never happened.
Oh man.
So, okay.
There's so much that I'm certain you would be able to come back and like do another recording
on some of these more finer details because I really want to get your story.
And we are really getting into the weeds that I want to do with you on upcoming episodes
if you're available.
Yeah.
I mean, my story was pretty boring except for the arrest.
Not that I would ever advocate for going through it again.
No, no, no, no.
But the work I do is, the work I do was pretty interesting.
Like the amount, the different grades that I come across people from like the very harsh
forced marriage kind of abusive family to like, you know, other people who are like,
yeah, you do you or kind of atheist parents or a lot of the Iranians that I've met here,
their parents absolutely hate Islam because they were born during the time
of, they had to flee their country during the time of the revolution.
Like a lot of the, right.
And I was so surprised because as the, like, I guess the community I was brought up and being
a Shia, you're kind of devout, like you're a devout Shia Muslim to Iranian law.
Like you follow everything that Iran does.
So when Iran got the, when Iran had the revolution and people started wearing hijab,
it even spread to Tanzania as well.
Few years later, because my, obviously my parents were born before the Iranian revolution
and my mom started wearing the hijab when she was 23.
I started doing the hijab when I was eight and so did my older sister.
So something changed between like, you know, the 15 years that they had,
less than 15 years that they had in between.
And it was exactly.
So like when I meet other people, they're like, oh, you don't like as an Iranian,
you don't like not only that you're not a Muslim, but you absolutely hate that religion as well.
Um, I guess I was, I was listening this, I was listening to my friend, according to her
Iranian parents, I was listening to her talk about her parents and you know, she's like,
yeah, my dad's like a staunch atheist.
And I'm like, really, like being from Iran, like, you know, because it's such a holy land
that there's so many events that took place and she's like, yeah, and it's just like,
it's like a history flag, like, like a flashback, like everything that you're told
that people should believe in and it's so devout and close to them.
You're just like, well, hang on.
Yeah.
Well, am I missing?
How have these people not spoken in front of others?
And the reality is the reason I got arrested was because I was the person from my community
talking about it.
They were so threatened of somebody else that I actually had people who would,
who were so scared of messaging me, even when they were Muslim, but then afterwards,
like, you'd even see some Muslims go like, this is fucking crazy.
You know what's crazy about this?
And I really want to do more with you on this stuff.
I know some ex-Jahovas witnesses who are afraid to speak out, to come out.
They're physically in sometimes, but they're mentally out.
They call it Pimo.
They might be physically out and mentally out and still won't speak out about it.
Right.
So they call that Pomo.
They have like anachronisms for this, but they're not in any danger or threat.
It's more of a social thing.
And they don't want to lose certain friends or whatever it might be.
They're just afraid.
With what you're talking about, this is insane.
And I can't imagine how many Muslims or people who are in the communities who really think
like us about these things, but can't.
They have to just go with the flow.
And they've kind of psychologically trained themselves to be a Muslim,
even though they just, they can't think against it or can't speak out and say anything.
They're just stuck.
Because anything you say is considered blasphemy and blasphemy is so forbidden on.
So even initially when I came out or when I just lived, like I said,
it was that long journey.
So like, you know, there were times I'm like, do I believe in God?
Like I didn't know for a very long time, probably a decade.
And when I did, obviously, no regrets.
But, you know, for the longest time, it was that social,
it was that social identity that I would be losing if I had spoken about and I did.
I had some of my really, really close friends go like, oh, well, you're not a Muslim anymore.
And not only that, like, you know, like they felt sorry for me.
And I'm like, no, don't, I'm happy.
You kind of felt sorry, to be honest.
You have to think.
And I'm like, you have to think about hell.
I don't, I do things because I want to do that because I think that I've made that judgment
that it's right.
But you have to think about hell.
You have to think about so many other things when I already have like found the part that
I want to go down and I'm not being a hypocrite.
Like I've had Muslims go like, oh yeah, but like, you know, Islam doesn't allow homosexuality.
So like, you know, my gay friends will know what, what, you know, they'll go to hell or,
you know, they'll talk to God or, you know, maybe I'll pray for them.
And I'm like, hang on.
Wait, so you're okay with like them going to hell and they're your friends.
Doesn't that make you like a really bad friend?
And they never thought about it.
And like, I think a lot of people have that social.
Fear because I guess not everybody wants to be vocal about it.
And not all communities would hurt other people for leaving.
But a lot of, a lot of different people would definitely be socially ostracized.
And yeah, I think that was my case.
That's why I would, that's why I was silent for a very long time, which was interesting
because I remember my friend who's super religious or, you know, she's like cover up
and everything, but she was so liberal and open-minded, like, let that leave the cover up.
But every time we spoke, we felt like we connected and agreed on so much.
And then suddenly when I left Islam, I was, you know, she was like, oh, who knows,
you might just come back.
And I'm like, no, once, once you leave, you don't really, you can't really undo it.
You can't just go like, oh, I can undo everything that's wrong in religion now.
And once you see it, that's it.
So, so let me ask you this.
What are you trying to do now?
And I know this is a horrible question.
Where do you see yourself at in five years questions?
Those are horrible.
But I would like to ask, like, what is your goal?
And what are you working on right now?
If you don't mind?
Yeah.
So a few things tend to me has always been close to my heart, even if I can't go back.
But as part of somebody who's always, who's always worked in women empowerment,
you know, faith as a job, it gives me that exercise of my identity being related to
the charity itself in many different ways.
So one, helping ex-Muslim women.
Two, we have a small menstrual health program where we want to work towards
educating now, this is not related to my activism at all.
But it was something that I saw was a very clear issue in Tanzania,
where women don't have access to clean water, let alone sanitary pads.
So we're expanding that.
But the other thing before I moved to Sweden was to start talking to,
I guess, a lot of the West about ex-Muslims because they don't, you know,
they don't really have a program for people who've left religion.
You're not recognized.
They don't really have other religious denominations that are up for persecution for not
being that religious denomination.
So when we talk about humanitarian visas in Australia, they don't see you being
at threat if you've left a religion, except for when it comes to Islam.
I currently work with different orgs.
But one of the big ones was Amnesty International, who through one of their
local chapters sent me a case of a Muslim woman marrying a Christian man.
And Islamists were after them.
And they're like, these are not the type of cases we handle.
And I'm like, what?
Like, what do you mean, these are not the type of cases you handle?
Like, where is the funding?
And I was so sad to see that there is still this bigger, wider world.
Well, like, you know, like, you know, we have a lot of atheist orgs,
but not enough funding as compared to religious orgs.
And these are cases, you know, we have persecuted Christians in Muslim majority
countries who have quite a bit of support.
But being an atheist is the worst of all sins in Muslim majority countries,
especially if you have been a Muslim before.
Not because you're a Christian and an atheist.
I think you're still on a safer zone than being a Muslim and then leaving Islam.
And I think that not just awareness piece for the outside world as like Twitter,
but in terms of organizations and the support we get,
that's where I see myself slowly kind of having conversations,
talking to refugee councils in terms of like, you know,
when people migrate from Saudi Arabia to Australia because they're ex-Muslims,
you don't place them with other Saudis who are Muslims or, you know,
different other minorities like LGBT Muslims or LGBT ex-Muslims.
And you don't just place them with one group.
So the idea is that I want to see this as like an ongoing project where the podcast
and activism is one, the charity has its own little subsection of mental health and
excellence at risk, but the bigger part is creating that awareness
within orgs and setting up structure where they're recognized.
It minimizes my work, but it kind of maximizes the bigger output and the impact of it.
So, you know, there's so many written articles, but a lot of people like,
I want to, I want to move beyond just like Twitter activism.
I want to go into like this orgs and I have offered to talk to forced marriage units in
Australia and I'm like, I don't have to come from like an ex-Muslim point of view,
but I can tell you what it's like.
Not that I've been subjugated to forced marriage,
but I can tell you what it's like the way people see marriage,
the way people see women and how women are raised to shut up about their families.
Like in the West, you have this idea where if your parent hits you,
you can call 911 or whatever the emergency line is in Muslim countries and Muslim households.
You can't really report your parents.
Like, you know, if you think about a sitcom with like brown people versus white people,
like you're meant to safeguard your parents.
They're always right.
You owe them your life.
That's how you've been told for a very long time.
So you don't just call up social services when you're in trouble.
And this is something where I feel like they could do tremendous amount of work,
but it's not being reported.
We're not doing anything in Australia, especially there is nothing happening statewide.
And I'm just like, you've had a forced marriage unit since 2015,
and how many of you recorded five cases?
That's crazy.
There are so many more happening and there's so many more not being reported.
What's your saying here?
I can't imagine how much has not been done and could be.
For those of you who are watching, obviously you stuck around.
And I hope that if this touched you, go down in the description,
check out Zara's, you know, links, see what she has going on there.
And if there's any way you want to help, if you know someone who's interested,
you guys can help out be part of this.
This will be concluding this first episode with you, just getting your story and stuff.
But I think we really have lots of stuff we can get into on the details.
So I hope you'll join me again here at MythVision.
And I hope this video does impact a lot of people who might be questioning and going,
like, maybe there is a better world.
Because I can tell you what you described compared to the life I live.
This is heaven, if you compare them.
So if you had one final word, you're speaking to a Muslim right now.
Um, male or female, it doesn't matter your choice.
What would you say to them right now if they were actually listening to you?
Question everything.
Don't, don't type no as an answer and never take somebody's word as an answer.
Be curious.
This has been my advice to women in engineering as well.
Question everything.
That's where, you know, that's where you'll start finding out whether,
even if you decide to be a Muslim in the end, because you believe in God,
I do not care provided you don't hurt anybody else.
But you're also questioning and being rational in your decisions.
Because I know spiritual Muslims and I know what it's like and how different that is
from people who believe in the dogma and have had their lives revolve around it.
Because they're so scared.
Actually, the police officer who was investigating asked me why I left Islam.
And I'm like, because I read the book.
And I was like, what are you still a Muslim?
Have you never thought about reading the book?
And he was pretty much like, I can't question it.
I get sinned for it.
And I was like, then don't ask me a question because I will throw the verses at you and
have no idea what I'm saying.
But yeah, I feel like there was definitely this punishment in our heads where we don't
question things.
And it's probably our worst enemy, if anything.
Well, ladies and gentlemen, Zara Kay, thank you so much for joining me.
I really do appreciate this.
I am ready to bring the scalpel to Islam.
I want to see the good, the bad, the ugly.
I want to analyze these things.
So if you're watching this far, hit the like button.
Make sure you subscribe, share the content.
Let someone else know who needs to see this.
If you're a Muslim watching this, maybe you'll learn a thing or two from us.
Because I know that you always want us to learn about you and the truth of Allah and
His prophet and this and that.
Well, I'm going to have some scholars on critical scholars and we're going to be
taking a deep dive into the literature.
So be stayed tuned.
Thank you so much, Zara.
Until next time, I look forward to seeing you next time.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
And if you've lost your identity and you don't know who you are, you can join us.
We are MythVision.
Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha.
