Be sure to check out MythVisionPodcast.com.
Help MythVision grow guys, become a Patreon member.
You guys will get early access to all of my videos when I'm done editing them.
Also, it's a small community where you guys can message me your questions and talk to me in private.
You guys can donate also through PayPal. Join our social media links down in the description.
We have Twitter and Facebook groups. Help the community of MythVision grow.
Don't forget to subscribe to this channel. Hit that bell button so you're notified every time I do a live video and you don't miss any of my content.
Like this video and comment your thoughts below because I want to know what you think about all of these things.
We are MythVision.
Ladies and gentlemen, welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
Samuel Zenner, Dr. Zenner has joined me again today.
We're going to talk about the earliest version of the resurrection with Jesus.
Was he really buried?
You know, these narratives, I've heard a lot of people say the empty tomb,
it's easy to argue why the empty tomb story is legend.
Even Dr. Bart Ehrman has come to this conclusion and he's pretty conservative on taking steps towards saying something's legendary
in areas he hasn't already made those claims.
So eventually he progressively came to the conclusion that he thought the empty tomb was actually a legend.
But he had good reason to and he argues that in his books and he starts to argue that later on in his research, which he's currently at now.
And Dr. Zenner is going to present an early version of Jesus' resurrection, unlike coming from an empty tomb or out of a tomb narrative.
So Dr. Zenner, what was it that you were like that you were wanting to present?
I know this won't take us long to get into, but I'm interested in hearing your insight on this.
My historical reconstruction is that the earliest idea of Jesus' resurrection was that he, his spirit or nephage,
ascended from his body on the cross.
When he was on the cross, he ascended into heaven.
I'm not the first scholar to come up with this. So this is an opinion, an interpretation that's in the literature, the scholarly literature that interprets the New Testament, the Gospel.
Letters to the Hebrews, Raymond Brown in his commentary on the Gospel of John and the Anchor series, the Anchor Bible commentary series.
Letters to the Hebrews even seems to presuppose it.
The original idea of Jesus' resurrection was that his spirit ascended from the body on the cross.
So that is the resurrection, that is the Ascension.
Now what happened was the role of the liturgy comes into play.
It starts to exert influence after this. And what I mean by this is the liturgy is right. It's a calendar.
So there's a tenochro after three days.
And what this means is not literally after three days, but at the decisive moment, at the decisive time, God intervenes and saves the situation.
So when you say he rose after three days, originally that didn't actually mean after three literal days, it meant at the decisive moment, God intervened.
And that was on the cross itself.
And only later it was the three-day tenochro, then historicized under the influence of literacy, I believe.
So then now we have the story that right after three days, the resurrection takes place.
And then he's around for 40 days teaching and then he ascends to heaven.
Originally that Ascension was from the cross.
So even the 40 days later, that looks like another historicization that is taken place according to the needs of liturgy and the calendar of the liturgy.
And if you look at the Gospel of Matthew, for instance, you have the resurrection is announced and then Jesus appears and he says, look, I am with you all days into the consummation of the age for the end of the world.
And period, that's the end of the Gospel.
So there is no Ascension.
Jesus remains in spirit here on the world till the end of the age.
And the Gospel of Mark and the Gospel of Luke actually present the same picture that the resurrection day, which already then is three days after the crucifixion.
But the resurrection is the coincides with the Ascension.
So Mark, Matthew, Luke, there is no Ascension 40 days after that only comes in the Book of Acts.
And even in the Gospel of John, Jesus rises.
And that's his Ascent to God.
There is no Ascension 40 days later.
So, but in the beginning, the resurrection was the Ascent of Jesus from the cross.
And so this is the earliest idea that it becomes historicized. I think for the needs of liturgy.
It is interesting. It makes me think of Paul and Paul in 1 Corinthians 15 does have a spiritual resurrection in mind.
The body dies, the spirit rises.
And then this is when this huge question comes up like what happened in Jesus body.
And they act like it matters in the Gospels.
Like they seem like where's the body of our Lord like that matters where his body is.
I think it's interesting and I just, I don't know if this matters or not, but I think it's in John.
It's definitely not in Mark, I don't think, but that they have this like excuse that they wanted to, like they say,
people would steal away the body that the idea that they're going to take away his body so they have this like missing tomb narrative that plays a role.
I don't necessarily buy that there was ever even a role of a tomb, like especially not one where you roll a stone in front of it.
If there was a historical Jesus.
But do you have any idea what you think happened to his body?
Is there any evidence that might point us in a direction or is this complete speculation at this point?
I think it's speculation. All we can say is, you know, what happened to people who were crucified in general at that time.
That's all.
And what happened?
Many times, the body was left on the cross and even by the carry on by birds.
So we have many records of that.
Then we know that shallow grades were used and these would likely have been made created near the site of whatever crucifixion we'd be talking about.
You wouldn't want to go out of your way as the Romans who were doing this execution and travel distances and bury them.
You would bury them in vicinity, in some shallow grave or even ditch.
Curiously, in one of the Nakamadi documents, the Apocryphon of James, there's actually, and Jesus is speaking, of course, it's not for a goal, but Jesus is supposed to be speaking.
He actually does refer to himself as having been, I believe, I can't remember the exact words, but it gives the impression of, you know, a burial almost in a ditch.
Right.
Anyway, that's something I have to look up. I haven't looked at that for years.
If you take a look at the Apocryphon of James and the Nakamadi Library, read through the entire document and when you come across this statement, you will not be able to miss it.
It'll stand out because it's pretty unique in early Christian literature, a claim like this, that it doesn't have a tomb in view.
So it's very odd.
It really fits the profile of what we know did happen to people who were crucified.
Have you ever heard of this?
What? Have you ever heard of the center's grave?
No.
I'd have to send you the link. I'd like to get your thoughts on it sometime, but that's irrelevant to this right now. Maybe we could do a discussion on this.
I don't know whether you know there were different fields that we read about different fields that were used for like burying the poor, you know, in mass graves.
And so this would be very similar to something that would happen, right, with crucifixions, but we do have accounts.
It was not unheard of. We read about these, not intercedents and other sources, where sometimes, you know, families were able to retrieve the body, right, and bury them.
We know that, right.
From archaeology, we do have the remains of a crucified Jew from the first century of a common era. And then the nail, we know this crucified because the nail that's still in his ankle.
So obviously they were able to retrieve the body.
It didn't happen very often because that's the only instance we've ever stumbled upon. Right. So it was extraordinarily rare. So, but, but, you know, things like that, it obviously happened.
Interesting. Dr. Zinner, I appreciate you making this remark on the original ascension and resurrection of Jesus, that the idea is he did from the cross. It was not a burial in a tomb necessarily.
This might be one of the earlier forms of the resurrection that you can think of. And I really do appreciate that, guys. Any comments you'd like to make before we go?
Yeah, what was done with the body would not have been a great concern for the earliest followers of Jesus because of the concept of the spiritual resurrection that needed like Paul in 1 Corinthians 15.
Right. And I think that was probably the idea in Palestine and Israel as well.
Right. So the important thing is that the spirit lived on and the fish lived on. And, you know, what happened to the body would not have been a great turn. Theologically, of course, for or greeting family, sure, it would have been a big issue.
Theologically, not really. It wasn't for Paul.
Right. Exactly. Well, thank you so much. Guys, go down there, check out the link in the description and you guys can help support, read what he does. You can support him and appreciate you checking it out.
Thank you so much for joining me today, Dr. Zinner. I appreciate that.
You're welcome.
Don't forget, we are Mephision.
Thank you.
