© BF-WATCH TV 2021
Dr. Goodacre, Francis Hill Professor, Francis Hill Fox Professor of Religious Studies at
Duke University.
Thank you so much for once again allowing me to interview you and explore these ideas.
So we're going to get into, I figure why not talk about a few other scholars work and what
you think.
I'm more like interested in what you think and eventually I'll probably interview them
and say, what do you think about?
It's work and things like that because too often your expertise in the synoptics, let's
say and of course the New Testament might be focused on the Gospels whereas someone
might go, I'm a Pauline guy and the other guy goes, oh, revelation.
And the inner dialogue that happens among scholars, I don't see enough on YouTube.
It might happen in the personal at lunch, it might happen at the college, but the world
isn't seeing it.
Right.
Yeah, absolutely.
Jason Staples just wrote this, you love how I open that because he's a pimple.
I've heard from quite a few of his colleagues, he's the guy that you don't want it to be.
He's an intense, he's very passionate.
That's why I can't wait to interview him on this topic.
But Romans 11, 25, it's this, right?
I had a professor's ideophare in Ishae Rosensfi on Goi.
They came on to talk about these Gentiles and they said, Paul's like a rabbi.
He's hijacking Old Testament passages and just applying them there.
He doesn't mean that these guys are literally anything.
And I don't want to put words in Professor Staples' mouth either because he's saying
Paul's trying to double fulfill here, the nations as well as the lost tribes by resurrecting
them through the ethne, the nations.
These are because they were lost into the nations among the nations.
They're not ethnic Israelites, but he's resurrecting them, which is why Paul might say in Galatians
like stuff like, well, in Christ you are a seed of Abraham.
You're now Abraham's children.
I know there's a long little thing to get everyone who's watching aware, but how do
you view, what are your thoughts of that?
Do you take the position of other scholars like James Tabor and others who say the Jews
constitute Israel in the first century?
And there isn't this distinction, so to speak, in the New Testament.
And how does that all Israel be saved?
Is this just a stumbling block, this Gentile thing?
I'm causing jealousy to Israel.
Let's focus on these other guys.
The nations will come in in the last days, as Paula Fredrickson always talks about in
her books, and then God will save all Israel.
How do you interpret that passage and maybe like take us into the context?
Yeah, it's one of those really great texts for debate, and sometimes biblical scholars
have got really bad reputation for just pulling out and looking at nitty-gritty little kind
of verses instead of looking at the bigger picture, but this is one of those where, because
as Paul says, all Israel will be saved.
You really want to know, what does he mean by all Israel, the starters?
And what does he mean by will be saved?
Does it mean that they're all going to suddenly bow the knee and confess that Jesus is Lord?
Or is there some other roots?
That's the question.
And it's a really, really difficult one to tease out, because when Paul in Philippians
2 talks about the future, he says, at the name of Jesus, every knee will bow, and every
tongue confess.
So he seems to think there, there will come a time when everybody will confess the name
of Jesus.
Now how do you marry that up with all Israel will be saved?
That's the sort of big question.
And then on the other side, there's also the question of, in 1 Thessalonians 2, he seems
to talk about the wrath of God having fallen upon Jews or Judeans, presumably he means
there, Jews or Judeans who have not confessed Jesus.
So how do we square all those things?
Sometimes when we talk about contradictions in the New Testament, we're looking at a contradiction
to Matthew and Mark and to Mark and Luke.
This is Paul and the same person saying different things.
And one of the things about, there was a great article written by a scholar called C.H.
Dodd some years ago called The Mind of St. Paul.
They all said Saint in those days, The Mind of St. Paul.
And he just says Paul changed his mind as he went through.
He matured, he said in his thinking, and you can watch Paul changing in dialogue with others.
So that's all a roundabout way of saying Romans 11-25 is quite difficult to interpret.
In that, Paul seems to say a range of related and different things in other contexts.
Right, that's a great point actually.
I mean, so I think it's, I think if there's one thing that it's clear, it's that our questions
are different from Paul's questions.
I mean, the reason why this becomes so important to us is because we are anxious about the
bloodstained 20th century anti-Semitism and anti-Judaism, the appalling, appalling acts
of anti-Judaism.
And because some of that happened because of a legacy within Christianity, we actually
want to go back to the text and say, can we read these texts in other ways?
And one thing that I think has come out of that, and lots of good things have come out
of that, we are changing the way that we read the New Testament as a result of the, you
know, the post-Holocaust world that we live in.
But one thing I think has really, really helped is you go back and look at how you translate
some of this stuff.
And I'll give one example of something that I think has really, really helped.
John's Gospel.
You constantly have, apparently, Jesus saying things about Jews, saying really negative
things about Jews, and that's the way that it's always translated.
And this scholar, Malcolm Low, comes out and he says, why do we keep translating this
word Jews?
The word in Greek is eudioi, which you could just as well translate as Judeans.
Now does that help us in any way?
Well, actually I think it does, because several times what you actually see in John's Gospel
is that Judeans are being contrasted with Galileans and Samaritans, Samaritans, right?
So there is a geographical element to that.
Now you've still got John saying mean stuff about Judeans, so it doesn't help in that
sense, but what it does help with is it helps you contextualize what's going on there and
helps you to realize that the things that were being addressed in John's Gospel are
not the same as our issues.
You are not talking about all Jewish people everywhere when you're reading John's Gospel.
You're talking about this specific group of Judeans in this specific place and it's fascinating
to sort of work through some of this stuff in John, because there are several places.
If you look especially at John chapter 7, it actually doesn't make any sense, I don't
think to translate the word eudioi there as Jews.
Much more sensible to translate it as Judeans, because he's specifically talking about going
to Judea and about Galilee, right?
So incidentally that's a passage about Jesus's brothers as well that mentioned there in John
chapter 7, and so there you have a very interesting question about how does Jesus's
family factor into this whole question of who's Judean and who isn't in the first century?
Interesting, because I was reading his recent book, The Idea of Israel and Second Temple
Judaism, that is one of the starting points he tries to tackle is how do you understand
is it Jews?
Is it Judeans?
And of course there was a scholar who had a lot of anti-Semitic tendencies, Dr. Kuhn,
who came out of this and of course was in Nazi Germany.
I mean he would wear his outfit to lectures, so you're right, there's a big deal there.
I guess one of the things maybe probing into Romans 9-11 to get your take on, Paul seems
to reference places like Hosea.
There is this context in the Jewish mind if you will, or people that were practising Judaism.
They believe that there's a promise of the regathering.
My question, and this is why I love listening to other scholarship on this, Collins has a
different position, Collins thinks that the reconstituted Israel are the Judeans or Jews.
And there's Jews among the diaspora, so technically when James writes to the 12 tribes scattered
abroad, who's he talking to?
Two separate groups, Northern lost Israelites and Jews or is he writing to a reconstituted
Israel in Christ as Staples will interpret it?
What's going on?
Or are we supposed to suppose the most least likely is that, well we have the two southern
tribes as Josephus says in Rome, and there's really 10 northern tribes somewhere in Rome
here that he's writing to, or how's he getting a letter to them when we know there's good
reason to say the lost tribes are legend, even Dr. Staples agrees.
So my question, full circle.
How do you take that?
There's a good point, Paul's quoting these lost Israelite references, but how do we understand
that in the Romans 11, what do you conclude makes the most sense to you?
I think the problem about talking about lost tribes and all the rest of it is Paul hadn't
actually gone out on excursions interviewing people to find out if they knew anything about
their genealogy, to find out could this person be descended from Reuben and is this person
descended from Simeon, nobody was doing that.
So talking about the 12 tribes is always going to be a construct, it's always going
to be something that you're doing because you have read the Old Testament, because you've
read the Hebrew Bible, and that means that anybody who's appealing to that is not appealing
to something, whatever the origins of these people are, the concept is coming directly
from them hearing these things read and discussing them with their fellow Jews.
So that's always what the context of the thing is going to be.
It's a complicated one, it's super complicated and I commend him for trying to figure out
because Paul would obviously be trying to fulfill, he's in the end, it's about to happen.
So I really enjoy his way of saying well maybe, just maybe, he realizes and recognizes these
10 tribes aren't necessarily present or there's the other view of saying Jews now reconstitute
Israel and therefore scatter Jews, you can't really prove necessarily what your genealogy
is technically, but then there's the idea they're out there somewhere and it's this
mythos that's being wrapped up at the end and I think Axe tries to do that, maybe I
can probe on there.
Well one thing that is worth saying on Paul is that he definitely thinks that he's descended
from Benjamin, I mean he specifically talks about being from the tribe of Benjamin, so
whether that is real or not, I mean with genealogy, you know, people today that do their genealogy,
they discover all sorts of funky things they didn't realize, like what, I've found out
I've found Greek, yeah it happens, all this sort of stuff, so who knows how Paul knew that,
was it just passed down from generation after generation, presumably so, you know, could
it have been like several hundred years before Paul, one of his ancestors makes it up, we
just don't know, but the fact is he believes that and he thinks that he is rooted in the
tribe of Benjamin, so it's a reality to him because he has that as a point he boasts about
in Philippians three, he actually says, you know, from the tribe of Benjamin, like that
is something that, you know, I know what kind of, you know, ancestry I've got, so we know
the issue is important to him, but it's difficult to get much beyond that to how he thinks about
other people from, you know, other tribes.
The complexity in this question, I guess, and I love this, the way you're describing
this is so fascinating, it's a fresh look and a way I've not really tried looking at this,
the complexity of the nations, and I brought this up in the previous video we were recording
already, is there's this idea that Israel will be scattered among the nations, depending on
which book you read too, because they're not all the same, like sometimes it seems like they're
no more, they're lost, but there's a promise they'll come back, is this Ezekiel bone prophecy
saying they're gonna come back from the dead somehow because they're no longer, or did they
go out in the nations, and then as like Tobit says, they go further behind mountains across
the river, and they only intermarry with each other, like there's so many different like
amazing literature that gives you this lost tribe stuff, but there are groups like I mentioned
that seem very dangerous in their thinking that say, well the only purpose, Paul says
I'm in chains for the hope of Israel, like when they say, see those words, they get this
like, the only point is literal Israelites, right, so then they get stuck in this and they don't
look at academia, and it's like hold on, I thought there were prophecies as Paula Fredrickson brings
out in her book, Paul the Paganist Possible, not only to Israel, she makes this really interesting
pass too, she says Paul's opponents might think they're gathering lost tribes, they're trying to
circumcise, they're trying to make them Israelites, why is Paul not doing that, so this is a great
question, but the question I have is, it's not just Israelites among the nations, the nations it
seems there's a prophetic bringing in it, at some point, could you comment on that, and then I got
one more on the Gospels I'd love to delve into, I don't really know what to say about that,
it's complex, that's the problem, because yeah, I mean the, I mean, let me comment that across
another angle, one of the most fascinating things about Paul is why did he not go east,
great question Joseph is, I mean why did he not go east, because I mean when he described his
mission in Romans 15, he says I've preached fully in a circle all the way from Jerusalem
as far as Illyricum, right, and which is basically a western pass, I mean he starts that and he just
goes west, why did, I mean there are plenty, already, you know, when you read the Acts of
Thomas from the third century, you have this story of Thomas going to India, you know, I mean,
so why did Paul never think that, I mean, and for that matter, why didn't he go to Africa,
why didn't he go to, because we know, I mean one of the great mysteries about early
Christian, you know, missions is, is that Africa is evangelized as it were,
quite early on, we don't know where, you know, by who, it's one of the reasons why, you know,
you occasionally get these books, which will do this thing where they'll go, Paul, the founder
of Christianity, you know, Paul, the first Christian and all of that, now obviously Paul is an
absolutely essential important person in the story, but one of the reasons why I think we
have to avoid this idea that Paul somehow changes everything is that he doesn't go east
and he doesn't go to Africa, so and even in the areas where he does go, quite often he is going
places that have already been reached by somebody else, so when he writes the Epistle to the Romans,
he's not yet been to Rome, but there are clearly Christ followers there in Rome already, you
know, that's explicit, so we should probably avoid the idea of Paul as this kind of super
Christian evangelist missionary who just transforms early Christianity, the reason why we,
there's basically, I think there's two reasons why we tend to think like that, one is we've got his
letters, he wrote letters, as far as we know Apollos, for example, didn't write letters,
and if he did write them they've all lost, he probably didn't keep copies of them, I think
Paul kept copies of his own letters, right, that's why we've got them, but second reason is Luke
really, really liked Paul and decided to make him the hero of Acts of the Apostles, so we end
up with this story in Acts of the Apostles, first half is all the others, second half is Paul,
and so we kind of think in our mind, oh well Paul must be the guy then, he must be the man,
and it's funny, a lot of the scholars who do this, Paul was the founder of Christianity thing,
will be saying, ah we can't trust Acts of the Apostles, and yet they are so seduced by
the Acts of the Apostles vision of Paul as the number one guy, that they sort of treat
things that way, so it's kind of hypocritical, yeah, well I just think they've noticed it,
the thing is with, I was talking to a brilliant scholar just the other day on my podcast, Robin
Walsh, and Professor Walsh said, do you know what she said, my best ideas often come when I say I am
confused, when I look at the thing and say I am confused, and for me with Paul, I was saying one
day, I was teaching it, I was teaching Paul, and we asked this question, was Paul the founder of
Christianity, it's a great undergraduate question to ask, was he the founder of Christianity, because
you can go well on the one hand, but on the other hand, which is basically every undergraduate
essay, you know, compare, contrast, right, but as I was thinking, well if we do want to use that
term, the founder of Christianity or something like that, then there's a whole bunch of things
that we just can't explain, you know, and I actually think that then, then I started thinking,
but then why are we so, why do we think that, and I think it's because in spite of everything
that critical scholars will say about Acts of the Apostles, deep down they're actually quite
influenced by the fact that Luke thinks that Paul was so important. Wow, we touched on this,
this is the final thing, we touched on this, and I think it's good, there's social identity,
for sure, look at your cat, it's okay, don't worry, trust me the kitty is not gonna hurt anything,
we look at social identity all the time, and one of the things I've brought up to you is like how
Mark, you say he's Gentile leaning, Paul kind of backs it up a little, it sounds like, but then
ends it with, let's go, you know what I mean, for example, Mark is, you know, all these Gentiles
are popping up, then Matthew is very legalistic sounding, like you workers of lawlessness,
like, whoa, what in the world is going on here, and Gentiles do seem to be the picture, you know
what I mean, but the question I have is, I came only for the lawsuit for the house of Israel,
right, when a fundamentalist sees this, and I'm not talking about a fundamentalist that's going
to a Christian church who listens to a pastor who's gonna reconcile this, I'm talking about someone
who sees this, and then they literalize that and go, I came only for Israelites, this is how
they interpret this, and then Luke comes on the scene, he doesn't only say I came, or he says,
rather go only to the lawsuit of the house of Israel, Matthew 10.6, he says, don't go to Gentiles,
don't even enter the city of Samaritan, then in Luke and John, Jesus himself is doing the very
thing Matthew says, do not do, something's going on with conflict, and this brings up the Judean
Judean Galilean issue, I think there might be regions also potentially different groups,
like the Samaritans were definitely not frowned upon, they're not like, yeah, Josephus isn't a
fan of them, can you touch on that social identity, what you think Luke's doing, what Matthew's doing
versus Mark, and then what Luke's doing to correct that? The friend of mine, James Barker, Professor
James Barker, he thinks that John's story of the Samaritan woman is actually a reaction to
the Matthew 10 thing of saying, go nowhere among the Samaritans, so we're actually, okay,
we're actually going to put Jesus in the Samaria, we're going to have him amongst the Samaritans,
because it's such a blatant contradiction, so we definitely have that in the picture,
and I mean, Luke also has this amazing story at the end of chapter nine, where a Samaritan
village rejects Jesus, and James and John say, shall we call down fire from heaven on them,
and Jesus says, no, of course, I'm not going to do that, that Michael Golder thing, one of my
academic heroes, Michael Golder thinks that Luke saw the story in Matthew 10, where Jesus says,
go nowhere among the Samaritans, and then Luke thinks, well, there must have been a reason for
that, so he surmises that he was rejected there, so he thinks that that's going on
in the background there, but certainly Samaritans as a group are one of the most curious
elements in this sort of, in this whole picture, because you have Galilee here,
you've got Samaria here, and you've got Judea here, how do you tell a story about somebody
who is from Nazareth, who lives in Capernaum, but keeps going to Judea, like in John's Gospel,
and not bring up Samaria, and all three of those Gospels, Matthew, Luke and John,
deal with that in different ways, I mean, in John, he just seems to be walking right on through
Samaria, right, that's just chapter four, whole chapter given up to that, Luke's Gospel, well,
he gets rejected by these Samaritans, and that then sets you up ready for the parable of the
Good Samaritan, which comes to chapter later, so the reader that doesn't know anything,
you know, someone who's reading Luke's Gospel in Corinth, or hearing Luke's Gospel in Corinth,
they don't know anything about Samaritans, and they've never heard of them,
so what Luke does is he sets up in chapter nine already that you've got these negative Samaritans,
so that the reader's thinking, oh, these Samaritans, these sound horrible, you know,
they want to murder, you know, actually, let me say that's not true, sorry, not they want to
it's James and John who wants to murder them, but they're rejecting, so you're set up for them
being hostile, ready for when Jesus says, oh, but there was this Good Samaritan, right, so you,
so for people that don't know the background, Luke as a storyteller has done quite a clever
thing in setting that up, and then again in Luke 17, you get Samaritans again, because basically
Jesus heals 10 lepers, and one of them comes back, and that one is a Samaritan, so you have,
he kind of closes that whole loop then by the end, so it's said by the end, rather than say
the story begins with them rejecting Jesus, you then hear about this anomaly, the Good Samaritan,
and then you get this thankful leper who is commended warmly by Jesus in Luke 17, so these are,
I mean, you can actually almost hear the early Christians saying, what actually
ever happened with the Samaritans and Jesus, I mean, you know, he's from Galilee and he spends
his time Judea, I mean, did he go, I mean, especially if they haven't got many traditions
around, if they haven't heard much about the Samaritans, so that's what they're all kind of
reacting to this, and of course in Mark's Gospel, you'd just assume that Galilee is right next to
Judea, right, and you know, if you're in Mark's Gospel, he's in Galilee all the way through till
chapter 10, and then he basically sets off for Jerusalem, and you'd just assume, if you didn't
know, that it's just right there, you know, well, not, you know, I mean, there's still a road there,
but you, but there's no, you doesn't have to go through any other territory on the way.
I think this is fascinating too, one of the big, I guess, things is, number one, this could potentially
give reason to say, Luke knew Matthew, which a lot of scholars act like that's not the case,
in light of this social identity conflict, but also what makes me wonder, there's two things,
the Samaritans, I wonder if the Prodigal son parable is trying to amend a conflict, because
Josephus talks about this issue between Samaritans and Jews, but there was also this dividing wall
we see in the second century for sure, as Adio, Fear and Isha, Rosens, we talk about
Jew and then everyone else, so is this dividing wall a Samaritan Jew thing, or is this
Jews and everyone else type thing, and it makes you wonder, but I guess the only last thing I'd say
is, is John, when he says, I have sheep not of this fold, potentially talking about Samaritans
instead, because he's saying in Matthew, you know, only go to the lost sheep of the house of Israel,
scratch Gentiles, scratch Samaritans, they're not lost sheep of the house of Israel, and then John's
like, I have sheep that are not of this fold, is he talking about Samaritans potentially being
this, because I think people differed on their view of Samaritans, it wasn't a, maybe the majority
of people thought they were, oh, they're intruders that were supplanted by Assyria, blah, blah, blah,
and then they had this horrible history put on them, but I wonder, what do you think?
Yeah, I think John is definitely open to the idea of, clearly, because of chapter four, he actually
turns the Samaritan woman in chapter four, the woman from the well, into one of the first Christian
missionaries, because what does she do at the end of that story? She goes and tells other Samaritans
that she's found the Messiah. So one of the earliest evangelists, if you want to use the
evangelist in those, in that sense, one of the earliest evangelists, one of the earliest Christian
missionaries in John's Gospel is a Samaritan woman, that that has to be intentional, that has to be,
you know, he is clearly making a strong point here. And incidentally, it's one of the great
things about John's Gospel, because we also have Mary Magdalene, right, at the end of the
Gospel in chapter 20, being the first person to proclaim Jesus' resurrection. She's the one who
goes and says, I have seen the Lord, right? So this is why John's Gospel is often, is often treated
with such excitement by, you know, by when, so my grandfather, go back a few years, my grandfather,
right back in the 1930s, was one of the first people in the UK to campaign for the ordination
of women in the Church of England. And he spent much of his career just pushing away at this,
at this thing. And one of the things that I learned through talking to him is just how important
Gospel stories like that were to women who were basically not allowed to be ordained,
who were barred from being ministers in the Church of England, to see, to notice,
that you have people like the Samaritan woman in John 4, and Mary Magdalene in John 20,
going out and preaching. And basically, in the case of Mary Magdalene, would anybody have known
about it if she hadn't, you know, there was this, there was this kind of, you know, talk.
So it became hugely important in that move, in that movement. And I just share that from the
UK, because that's where I'm from. But I know that that's been the case for, you know, for people
all over the world. I'm just reading at the moment, a book by Jamie Clark Souls, Women in the Bible,
great book, strongly recommend it. In fact, I've got her coming on my podcast soon,
I've got an interview with her. But one of the things she does in that book is she integrates
the discussion of women in the Bible with the way that women have sometimes been treated in our
society. She talks about the groups that she, Jamie Clark Souls, you know, speaks to and
different groups of clergy and so on. And what was interesting to me as someone that teaches in
a secular religious studies department, was seeing how those stories can actually be really,
really important to not just women, but to people who want to understand these stories,
like the Samaritan woman, like Mary Magdalene at the Resurrection, or for that matter,
thrown Mary and Martha from John 11 and 12, looking at how those stories are still used in
communities and disgusting communities so that people can then work out their reaction to these
texts. You know, I mean, sometimes I treat the biblical texts like it's this ancient artifact,
because that's the way that I do things in a religious studies department. That's how we
think about things. You have appropriate critical distance, and I look at this in the same way that
I would be looking at Homer or Virgil or anything else like that. But every now and then it's useful
for people like me to be reminded that these texts still mean things to many people, and they're
inspirational to many people. And so sometimes just getting a sense of that as well, I think,
can be quite exciting, even if it's something that is not part of my own kind of job.
And I think that's amazing, because you're talking about the marginalized. It's not
women are really marginalized in those times. And the fact that this movement put them up
in a way is really powerful. There's an interesting side issue there, though, that
and this comes over. There's an interesting side issue there, though, as well, which is that
sometimes it's very easy for us to say, well, Jesus was so great to women,
and lots of other Jews in the time, they were horrible with women. And then he realized,
hold on a minute, what have I just done? I've just basically said, Jesus was great because
his fellow Jews were so awful. And basically, a lot of Christian scholarship has done this.
It has basically tried to make the backdrop of the Judaism of Jesus's day kind of negative
in order that Jesus can shine out. And people do it with Paul as well. People say, oh, look,
all these negative things Paul says about women. And then a lot of people say, oh, yeah, but if
you saw what some of the other Jews said about women, they're way worse, right? And we just got
to avoid that really naive and anti-Jewish way of looking at these texts where you try and make
the Christian characters, the heroes, and the Jewish characters, the villains.
And that has come and that's not just in churches and so on. That's in scholarship, too.
