you know, looky-loo aspect of certain people who were abused by it. It's, it's a totalist control
system. And that sounds kind of nefarious. I put that, you know, this nefarious term. Oh, that
sounds so, you know, James Bond villain, right? But it's like, that's kind of actually, no, that's,
that really is what it is. It's, I'm not joking. The goal is to give you an awe experience and
thereby convince you that Elrond Hubbard knows what he's talking about. Got it. That's, that's the
goal, right? At least initially with auditing, right? Is they, is Hubbard, Hubbard found great
utility in convincing people that they had popped out of their heads back in the 1950s, that they
had had an out-of-body experience, that they had gone in Scientology terminology, this is going exterior.
Welcome back to MythVision Podcast. We're going to talk about the cult, yes, I said it,
cult of Scientology. Today, I have a special guest. You've never met him here on the channel,
and that is Chris Shelton. Welcome to MythVision. Thank you very much. I'm very happy to be here.
I appreciate you joining me. I know that you know a thing or two. How do I know? Well,
if you just journey over to his YouTube channel, he has a ton of videos. Click this video button,
and you will get lost into the rabbit hole of Scientologist information and more than that.
He ventures even beyond that, but I want to point out he has some experience. So if you don't mind
while I share this, can you tell us what your background is in Scientology? Absolutely. I was
raised a Scientologist. My parents got involved when I was very young, and so pretty much my entire
living memory is growing up with and around Scientology and Scientologists and playing with
other Scientology kids. I did go to public school, and I did have that experience, and I did live
out in the real world for a little while afterwards, but I became immersed in Scientology
in a very significant way right out of high school. I was recruited to join staff in Santa
Barbara, California, and I worked there for eight years at the Church of Scientology there,
and that was my primary job and mission in life. And so then at 25 years old, I decided, well,
I'm not getting enough done and we're not expanding fast enough. And so you know what?
I think it's time for that billion-year contract, and I actually went all in. I doubled down rather
than maybe evaluating my life in a different way, and I joined the C organization, and I
did sign one of those billion-year contracts, and that was a full-time 24-7 operation. The C
organization is the core group of Scientology. I believe I'm correct in labeling it the fanatical
end of Scientology because these are people who are dedicating their next billion years,
your entire life to this. They say it's symbolic, but we in the know knew it was not.
We were really dedicating ourselves, and I ended up not doing a billion years. I ended up only
doing 17 before I had my fill of that, and I left. So that gave me 25 years of dedicated work
full-time for the Church of Scientology. And I learned a thing or two about the operation at
the city level as a public Scientologist and then as a staff member, and then at the highest levels
as a Seward member. Wow. I really do want to do a follow-up at some point to get that
story from you because everyone of you have a story, and I'm curious to know the changing
if you're thinking what happened, what did it for you. In today's episode though, which usually I
get people stories before we deal with the destructive nature of cults that we have,
today it is specifically zeroing on the destructive nature of Scientology. I interview
ex-Jovas Witnesses, ex-Mormons, ex-Scientologists, ex-Christians, ex-Muslims, you name it because
I find a destructive nature kind of thread through all ideologies in some way, shape, or form, and
there are various groups that have a higher control, whether it's ideological and the control is more
in the mind or physical. And so I'm curious to know what you've brought for us today, and I liked
how you said right before I hit record for everybody to get a eavesdrop into our conversation is that
there are Scientologists who never experienced the thing you, Karen Del Carrier, Mike Render,
Aaron, Smith Levin, I mean like the list goes on of anyone outspoken, right? Marty Rathburn,
you name it, like everybody's speaking out and they're like, it's so bad, I got beat up, I got
punched by David Miss Gavage, there were sexual issues going on or this or that, and like there's
so many people who are going, that's not my experience in Scientology, I didn't have that,
so they must be lying. Right, right, and yeah, and that's the problem is that we're not lying,
it is that extreme and it does become that fanatical at certain levels of it, and yet
my take on this, and I think an important one, is that it's not just physical abuse or sexual
liberties or abuses that make Scientology bad or wrong, there are things that are happening
of a psychological nature, of a spiritual nature, if you will, at even the lowest levels of Scientology
that require, you know, that really need attention, that are destructive, that are harmful to people,
and so it's not just that you need to know about Scientology or learn about Scientology because of
the sort of, it's that bad, and it's an effort to, as a totalist system, it's an effort to take
control of and manage every aspect of your life, and that's not something that is noticed right away,
you know, you get involved and the way people generally tend to get involved is through some
sort of self-help mechanism, some sort of, you know, we have this class that you can take and
communication or in marriage or raising your kids or dealing with your boss,
and we have these tools you can use, this is what they say, we have this toolkit for you, and if
you apply these tools, they work, and if you use them, you'll have a better life, and Scientology
is all about improving conditions in life, this was a, this was a marketing ploy for quite a while
with them, and it's not hard to see that when you only understand part of the picture, you only see
some of those tools at the lower levels, and you go, well, this makes sense, this sounds right,
well, of course it does, they would never get any new members if it was Xenu on day one,
we'll sign up for that, right, so it's, you know, it's the same thing as, well, it's not
same thing, but it's similar to, you know, you hear in the Mormon church, you have these magic
underwear and colob and, you know, the Garden of Eden is in Missouri or something, you hear all
these confidential teachings, and you go, well, that doesn't sound, that sounds crazy, Scientology
has its crazy levels, but what, where it differs from what other groups are doing in some ways is
the control starts establishing itself right away, and the technique of their counseling
process, which is called auditing, it's, it's really, we only use the word counseling to sort
of give people an idea of, of what it kind of compares to, but it's, it's so different from
what you would experience in a, in a psychology office or a licensed therapist office that
it really strains our vocabulary to call it counseling, it's, it's really not that, right,
it's auditing, and the auditing process of Scientology is really where the magic happens,
it's where people experience things that, that significantly change their worldview,
and the interpretation of those events is what allows them to, or, or, or gooses them, you could
say into, oh, this is it, and, and pay the money, and, and, and stay on board, it, it even becomes
a bit of an addictive process for people. This is a perfect, I'm, I'm even thinking about my
experience as a Christian, and I don't want to get caught up in that because we're dealing with the
harms of Scientology here, but I've had experiences with the right circumstances, the music, the
alter call, the whole nine, and you go down and you get this satisfying euphoria, so to speak,
and the people around there's a comforting bubble in which you feel like you're part of the family
now, there's something there, and you attribute that experience to the cognitive, what you think is
this God, this Jesus, this belief, and, and I'm curious to get into the experience of the
Scientologist, because you're not at an altar, you're not, there's no music playing in the background,
nobody's saying, if you total lie, then you total lie about that lie, but don't worry, God has
sent his son to forget, you know, what is the message, what is the, what is it that grabs
psychologically and gives the experience for the Scientologist that hooks them, and from that day
forward, cognitive dissonance, and, and just, they can't explain away that experience they had
when they were auditing or something, what do you think it is, and let's get into the detail here.
Absolutely, this is a great question, and, and, and a great example of a, of a comparable experience
in another group, because it is the same brain chemistry, you could say, or the same set of
things happening that induce that, oh my God, something incredible just happened to me,
there must be something to this, and that's, that's what the auditing produces in a very
similar way to a religious awe or euphoria experience. Wow. It's, it's very similar,
and this is not really so different chemically from a drug experience, nor is it really so different
even we can say all these negative things, but we can also go, it's also not so different from
falling in love. The, the, the feelings and the awe and the experience of this, these are all shades
or spectrum of, of love and awe and euphoria and good feelings, and this is something we all crave,
it, we want it, and there's nothing wrong with wanting that, it feels amazing.
You know, this is why we go to concerts, this is why people go to movies, this is why people read
poetry, this is, it's all about the feels, and, and again, totally organic, completely natural,
yes, let's do it, right? But where cults or where con men or where domestic abusers
come into the picture here is they sort of tank this picture with lies and deceptions,
and they tell you, well, here's this experience you're having, now let me give you an interpretation
or, or, or a translation of why you're having that experience. And, you know, for you, it was
a Jesus moment, you're in this crowd of people, there's, there's the group, you know, sort of
dynamic of it, there's the, you know, the every, there's maybe music and, you know, kind of high
level spiritual sort of feelings and emotions, and there's, there's trust, and there's,
there's awe, and there's, you know, there's a lot of things to this mix.
And it gives you this spiritual experience, this feeling of, of, wow, I'm, I'm experiencing
something bigger than me, something larger than life, something I have not felt in a long time.
I only, you know, I've got a handful of these kinds of incidents in my life, this must mean
something. Well, with Scientology, you're primed, you're told in, you know, and set up to believe
that when you go into these auditing sessions and you are made to remember, recall, or relive
past moments of pain and trauma and unconsciousness in Scientology, they call these moments
engrams, this is a Dianetics thing, and this is how it kind of all started,
is you go back through and you, and you have, and this is known, by the way, Freud lectured
about this technique. This is not something Hubbard had to invent. Right. He cribbed it.
And, and psychology has long since learned through actual scientific study. Yeah,
this kind of stuff doesn't really work so good. It doesn't do what you think it's doing. And it
more often than not actually solidifies the trauma rather than releases it. So that's kind
of what I'm talking about with these curves that can be entered into this is the Dianetics
and Scientology auditing procedure. As you go through this process of reliving trauma
with the idea, you're told beforehand, you're going to relive it, and then you might even need
to go to earlier times where you had similar things happen to you until the trauma, the stress,
the engram blows, erases, is no more, is gone. And when that happens, you're going to feel amazing
and you're going to feel wonderful and all of that. Well, for a percentage of people, not 100%
by any stretch, they are able to go back through incidents with this priming. And the way they're
put back through the incidents, the auditing process is trans induction, hypnotism. They're,
they actually induce a trance in you, or they get you through repeat repetition,
repetition of thought, of words, of sayings, things they'll actually say to you,
or have you say back to them, that will put you into these trance states. And
you know, there's a lot that could be said, and I know hypnotism is controversial in some people's
minds and stuff. And I'm not talking about the, you know, you're getting very sleepy kind of thing.
It's not that obvious. This is a very different form of trans induction.
But trans induction happens all kinds of ways. But the point is that when it does,
you become more suggestible. Your critical thinking skills go down, your awareness of
environment goes down, you're kind of in a little bit of a different place. In fact,
my friend John Atack has described hypnotism as guided imagination.
And that's what an auditing session really turns into, is it's guiding your imagination. You are
inventing and imagining things that have happened to you in the past even, and that can end up in
false memory syndrome, especially when we're talking about remembering things that happened
to you in a past life. And I'm probably jumping through all kinds of- Oh, no, this is good. This
is good because I interviewed, I'm sure you've heard of the Australian Jesus, the guy who thinks
he's Jesus reincarnated in Australia, and he has a real compound in Australia right now. I interviewed
him. Oh, wow. He's going to have to duke it out with that guy in Russia who's saying Jesus.
I want to interview that guy, but he's in prison, I think, or at least got arrested for who knows
what. I don't know. But it's an interesting thing you're describing here, because let's get into
this whole state of grabbing the cans, as they call them, to go through this process of auditing.
There's the emotions. We talked about that. They're going through these emotions. Oftentimes,
there's traumatic ones or bad. And good, do they try to lead you once you're suggestible into a happy
place? Is that the goal, or is it to a place of like, I've had enough, and it's blank screen kind
of in the mind, like you feel like you've emptied out your thinking or something? What are they trying?
What is their goal? Do you know?
And maybe we should clarify here just to make this a complete thought. Scientology believes or pushes
the idea that you are not you, the entity who is you, the thoughts in your head, the emotions you
experience, the feelings you have. All of that is actually you as a spiritual entity who is kind
of buried or contained inside the body or around the body. And your spirit or you, not your spirit,
you as a spiritual entity, they call that a faton in Scientology. They use that word for it. So,
you know, from Greek theta. Hubbard was big on creating new words and faton is one of them. And
that's rather than call it a soul or a ghost or a spirit, they call it a faton, but it's the same
thing. And that's who you really are in Scientology's faith systems. So, your body is an accessory. It's
a doll. It's a thing you're operating. You've had millions of them. You've been around a long time.
You can't die. There's nothing in the in this world or in this universe that can kill you
or make you cease to exist. However, the quality of your existence is in question because you've
been in this physical universe according to Scientology. And this is after day one. You
take Zola to learn all this stuff. But the fundamental dogma of Scientology demands that you
believe this, that you are a spiritual entity, that you have lived before, that you will live again,
and that you cannot die. But because of that, you only can accumulate stress and trauma and death.
And even birth is traumatic. I mean, you know, I don't think anybody really enjoyed going through
birth. That's a traumatic episode, right? So, every single life you've had, even if you live a life of
flowers and butterflies and rainbows and gumdrops, you still had to be born and you're still gonna
die. And those two things are going to be traumatic if nothing else in your life ever is.
And you're gonna have this cycle through millions and even billions and billions of times. You've
lived a long time in this universe according to Hubbard. So, the accumulation of all of that stress
and trauma and everything is what's weighing you down now. This is the key principle of Scientology
all of that stuff. It's kind of like since we're on Christmas time, right? Jacob Marley with the
chains, you know, that he has to carry on with him, right? It's just like that, except your chains
go on for miles. Wow, it's to analogize it to Christianity. It's the burden of sin for things
you've done bad in your conscious life. And there's a, it's really the, I'm gonna sell you the disease,
but I'm gonna tell you, I'm gonna convince you of the disease so I can sell you the cure. And
this is exactly what, you know, you're a fallen creature who deserves to be cooked and burned by
God all forever. But he loves you so much that he said, you know, and it's like, oh, okay.
Like these weird double binds that don't make any sense, you know, it's like, how is this true
when this is true? And it's crazy making and that's, and Scientology is full of that.
Um, so, so yeah, so that's exactly what they're doing is they're telling you this is the basic
problem. Now this is after again, this is not day one stuff, this is stuff they're gonna feed you
after they've given you the common sense toolkit. And you've had some experience, experience, some,
some assistance in your life, you have been helped in some fashion, you've helped yourself in some
fashion using this knowledge. And because this, you know, the first and only place apparently
you've ever heard of this common sense knowledge was in the Scientology force room, you think El
Ron Heberts, the guy who came up with it and he's not, he plagiarized everything. But that's
the experience they're trying to get you right away. And once they get you hooked, right? Once
you're in there, then they start selling you this higher level auditing and you progress up what's
called the bridge, you cross what's called the bridge to total freedom. Where the idea, the
promise here is, and this is a really big carrot for people to chase after, is they promise you
that ultimately you are going to rid yourself of all these shackles, all this guilt, all this trauma,
all this pain that you've been carrying around with you. In this and all of your previous lives,
I really got to stress that you got to buy into that in order to really make it in Scientology.
Excuse me. So you're going to unburden all that. You're going to get rid of all of it.
And we're going to return you to your native state. You're going to become not just,
you're not going to just become or re return back to being a Thayton. You're going to be an
operating Thayton, OT. And that's the key thing in Scientology is being OT.
And the whole point of being OT, and the reason why people strive for it, pay for it, jump through
all these crazy loyalty hoops to get there, pay all this money to do it, is it's a godhood.
It's a state where nothing can stop you, where you are returned back to your spiritual power
of even being able to create and modify and change matter, energy, space, and time.
You are in a position now which is called cause over life. Your cause, you're in the driver's seat.
And cause is a big word in Hubbard's lexicon. Hubbard was all about being cause,
not being the opposite he termed it effect. You don't want to be effect. You want to be cause.
You want to be the guy making things happen, not the person who's having things done to them.
This reminds me of the nutty interview I saw with Tom Cruise laughing with the Mission Impossible
tune. And he is really, I bet you and others who were Scientologists, who know what you're
describing here in depth, are watching him. What I would describe as an egotistical meltdown of
like, he is chuckling and he goes, and I know that I'm the only person who can change anything.
And it's like, because he's the cause. And it's like, now this makes sense. I was wondering,
what is, you know, I bumped into him in Florida once, Disney World. Anyway,
just went right past him, then I saw 20 bodyguards. I was like, oh snap, that's Tom Cruise.
But he has this ego about like, you can see what you're saying, and he believes it. He's
practicing that Godhood. If there's a car accident, and this is what really didn't make
sense to me as a non Scientologist, nobody can help that person. But you know that you can.
And I'm like, my dad's a medic in the Special Forces who like retired Green Beret. My dad knows
how to physically help if an arm or a limb goes missing and chopped off or something traumatic.
He knows what he's talking about. But the fact that he had this belief that he's the only one
who could do something, it's really delusional to assume that like, are you a medic, Tom? Do you
know what you're doing? Do you understand like the anatomy? And that's not the point. I don't know.
I don't know how you would answer these criticisms. I know he wouldn't, because he would just
over talk you and then be aggressive. But anyway,
No, he wouldn't. And, and, and he's actually even, and this is, this is no,
you know, let's, let's, let's, this is no apologetics for Tom, right? He's actually talking
more in the spiritual realm than he is maybe about, you know, direct first aid. Hubbard does
seed over that. Yeah, you need to give first aid to people when they're bleeding out in front of
you. But otherwise he says, doctors aren't a whole lot of good, you know, they're good for
patching up broken bones and bleeding arteries and things like that. But otherwise they don't
really know what they're talking about. And the reason for it, and this is where Hubbard's, where
Tom Cruise's narcissism and the egotism come from is Scientology inflates it because it makes
you believe that you are becoming more and more cause. You are the one who's, you know, able to
make anything happen. And Scientologists tend to focus on the spiritual side of, of our existence
rather than the physical side as much. They, they, they do care about our immediate, you know, your
immediate life because you got to pay for your bridge. You got to get up the bridge. You got to
get to OT and it's a long series of steps. It's not a hop, skip and jump. It's hundreds of thousands,
if not millions of dollars. It's years of time. There is nobody who skips to the front of the
line because they pay a lot of money and they get up to OT eight and six months. It doesn't
work that way for anybody. It is a long series of indoctrination steps. And this is based on,
we won't get into this too much right now, but it's based on an old Freemason,
you know, occult model. Makes sense to me. Yep. Levels and confidential rituals and
rights and confidential scriptures, you know, and all of that. That's all part of the Scientology
framework. So, so there's a lot in the mix, which is why it's always so fun to talk about it because
you could talk about it forever because there's so much to it. So, so trying to keep it on this
auditing line, you're trying to get to OT and that's eventually the dream that is actually
being sold to you. And when you believe that these are experiences, these euphoric experiences that
are happening in the auditing sessions, when you believe that that is a feeling that is reflective
of a spiritual gain and that there are many, many more such gains to be had. And in fact,
you've only touched, you've only peered behind the curtain of greatness that is who you really are
and what you can become. You know, you really get on that ride. I mean, that's a ride you want to
be taking. You want to get up to the place where you are a God and they don't talk about it that
way. Right. We're using that language. Yeah, I'm using that language specifically because the only
thing that compares in the big wide world to people's concept of what an OT would be is God. I mean,
it's a person who has attained a state of cause over life, matter, energy, space, time, and form.
There's nothing that an OT theoretically can't do. So including creating his own universe. I mean,
Hubbard talks about it in those terms. He says you can create a universe, you can modify, you can
destroy a universe and not just in your head, like for real. This makes me want to ask and I don't,
maybe we shouldn't go down this rabbit trail, but I just figure I'd ask you because I know that there
are other cult members, cult leaders, Joseph Smith, for example, right? People ask me this
question all the time. Did he believe his own nonsense? And the answer is yes and no, probably.
But he's a con man. So you think he believed his stuff if he's a con man, which many people would
point out. He's a con man. We have legal reasons that this guy was doing illegal things in
Joseph Smith's case. And that's still, experts say no, like the guy really believed his own stuff.
And the question is, do you think Elrond Hubbard actually believed these things?
Or what do you think? I mean, he can't read the guy's mind, but...
Yeah. And it's a deep well to go down. But what I'll say, I have a couple of answers to this.
First off, I'll say that in terms of the experience of Scientology for you and me and
the, it doesn't matter what Hubbard's mindset was. He's been dead since 1986.
It does not reflect at all in the experience of Scientology, what Hubbard was thinking.
Right. This is more an intellectual question.
But we can answer it. We actually do have data that tells us at least to one degree or another.
One, he was a con man and he knew it. He was a pathological liar. There's absolutely
positively no way he was not aware of that. He was one of those larger than life storytellers,
always the center of attention, always the biggest guy in the room. He was never the dude in the corner.
When he was in a room, you knew it. He was that guy. And he could spin stories all night long.
And he was kind of a practice professional at it because he'd been doing it since he was a kid.
Just his way of getting along in the world. And he was good at it sometimes, not good other times.
People would often be taken in by him and then learn the truth of the matter is that he was not
telling the truth after they got scammed by him or after they got burned by him in some way or
another. So he left an awful lot, a trail of an awful lot of upset people behind him way before
Dianetics and Scientology even came around. He was also a Pulp Fiction writer. It helped him with that.
But he had this underlying fundamental belief in himself and his ability to overcome his
circumstances. And he wanted power over other people, his private writings, his journals,
and his and something called the affirmations, which are published. You can even find them on
Wikipedia. These are private writings of his own. He never expected them to get out anywhere. And the
church has validated indirectly through court that these are valid documents. This is not,
we don't have a whole lot of question about the accuracy or validity of this. And Hubbard wrote
in his own handwriting, you know, I want to make men my slaves. Women cannot, you know,
resist me. I am, I am a Superman kind of thing. This goes on for pages. There's just pages.
Holy. Oh, yeah. So, wow. And the whole slave thing is a little disturbing, you know, because
Hubbard bragged when in a letter to another author friend of his back in the day that an early work
he had written pre-dianetics along the same line of how people think and act and how we can deal
with them. He said he's got a manual here of how you could actually rape somebody and get away with
it. Pretty harsh language, I know. But that's what he's, you know, he put it out there. This was a
guy who liked to get one over on people. That was part of his character right away. And yeah,
his lying sort of thing would get him in trouble in the military, got him in trouble with his
marriages, all kinds of problems. So, so he's not a person that you would say has, you know,
of high moral repute. Then he, then he hits on, you know, this thing with dianetics, which is
hypnotism repackaged. And initially, when he was working it with some friends of his and stuff,
who were more honest people, it appeared that there was something legitimate here. They were
having legitimate, wow, something's different kind of experiences. But it was just straight
hypnotism. And the process of the hypnotism was trans induction. Let's go back and recall these
incidents. Let's go through them until they release until they erase until they're no longer in your
memory. Part of, you know, of your trauma. Well, we now know trauma doesn't work that way at all.
But back in 1950, he could sell this. And he did. And people bought it. The fact of the matter is
there is no release of trauma happening. Trauma doesn't release that way. But you can have very
interesting experiences going down memory lane. And for example, one clinical psychologist has
explained that going back and sorting out levels of responsibility in your past could be useful,
be helpful, could trigger something new. Oh, hey, wow, I thought I thought all this time it was my
fault. But actually, it was my mom's. Hey, look at that. And you have this point. Oh, wow, I actually
feel better about that. Now, there's your, ah, you know, ah, wow, I really feel better about that
now, right? So you can have something happen. But that doesn't mean it's your spirit or your
reactive mind or these other nonsense explanations Hubbard gives. So he comes up with this technology
and it takes off. It's a valid runaway bestseller in May of 1950 dynamics is published and and America
loves it until they try it and then learn it doesn't do what it says it'll do. Hubbard kept it going
because people were asking him questions and he realized, Oh, I've got something on my hands here.
People are really interested in this. So he starts lecturing in public forums and he starts
talking about how there's new better techniques that he's developing. And he spends the next,
you know, 30 years convincing people that his new better techniques will get them to the place
Dianetics promised, but it'll get them there faster, easier, differently. I mean, 20 or 30 times.
This is good. This is good. I just want to make mention here that there's so many things you said
that we could get lost in. And one of the things I would be curious about is I'm wondering if there's
like a night or a day where he's hanging out with his buddies and they're kind of experimenting this
on themselves because they're influenced by, you know, well known thinkers of the time who are
dabbling in this. Another thing that comes to mind as a recovering addict and alcoholic,
I've been in 12 step programs many, many times. And there's a therapeutic aspect to the steps
that we find in step five, going in telling another alcoholic, you know, things that you aren't supposed
to tell anybody or that you can confide in, communicating with, and then making amends
whenever possible, except when to do so with harm others, right? So like there is this,
this release you get from going down memory lane, making a list of things, putting it on paper,
examining where I was at fault, where I may not have been at fault, things like that,
but trying to own responsibility along the path of cleaning up your side of the street. And there
is this, there is something there. And I know that from doing the 12 steps multiple times in my
life as a person trying to just survive, I mean, literally just trying to survive addiction.
But I imagine like, did the guy actually experience this himself and said, ooh,
this would be perfect. And then somehow he had an aha moment himself and is so narcissistic,
combine that kind of like with the Joseph Smith thing, right?
Well, yes, it does go in that direction in that Hubbard was trying to fix himself.
He had a lot of problems. He had physical problems. He had spiritual problems, you could
say, or psychological issues. He was, I think in hindsight, and I am not a clinical psychologist,
I've, you know, my master's is in coercive control, not therapy. So I only speak on this
stuff sort of tenderly, but yeah, but there are certainly indications in Hubbard's behavior and
reputed behavior of bipolar disorder of, you know, manic issues, he would be up and down and he had
drinking issues, he would, he would, you know, just gone bend, benders, binges.
And he did drugs, right? And he talked about that in various places, more so in the early days
of Dianetics than in the later days, but there is a later reference to pinks and grays. So, you
know, so Hubbard and he died even on psychotropic medications. So, so the man had influences from
lots of different places, but he was trying to, again, according to his writings, fix himself.
And he did not have a high regard for other people. He pretended to when he needed to,
but he didn't really. He was a serial philanderer. He cheated on every one of his wives. He treated
his kids like crap. He was just not this really good guy, but he always took such great pains to
try to present himself as this good guy. So again, that's where the kind of con aspect of this
comes in. And yet at the same time we have the other side of the coin that he's desperately
trying to fix himself. It's just that the thing with, yeah, it's just the thing is that he never
could. Yeah, never could. He never did. And the more years went by that he wasn't fixing himself
and coming up with different and new ideas and techniques to fix himself, the worse he got.
And near the end, the last, I'll say 10, 15 years of his life, he became reclusive. He became
extremely paranoid to the point where they were witch hunting Scientologists internally. I mean,
it was really bad. And more and more megalomaniac, you know, more and more must have all the power,
must have all the power and actually taking steps in the end that would have destroyed
his entire Scientology network and project if other people hadn't been there as true believers to
dedicate the hundreds and thousands of hours it took to pick up the pieces and keep it going.
There's so much here. You are a minefield and I know I could spend days recording with you. And
I know I'm going to have to. So and I know the audience watching is going to have to go subscribe
to this channel if you really want to get lost. I want to learn these things. There's so much.
So, you know, the behavior that you described at the end of his life, the last 10, 15 years
and this witch hunt among themselves, this is behavior we see and have seen repeat itself.
I even heard once just giving an analogy of Romulus and Remus as the founders of Rome.
Some Romans believed there was a prophecy that Rome would be destroyed from its own
because of the from what happened to Romulus and Remus, which by the way is a legendary story to
begin with. But it's like they saw this and sure enough from the inside out, Rome itself
eventually collapses with the help of outsiders that repeat poking at the walls. But I use that
analogy to say like look at the behavior of the onset here and what's going on. No wonder we see,
you know, miscavige the way he is at the top. I don't want to get off track because we're talking
about the harmful things, but it's important to know its founder and how its founder approaches
these dated concepts, dated practices and literally creates a mythology, a science fiction
mythology going back to the these are actually psychologist aliens that are like, you know,
like it's, you know what I mean? Like, oh, dude, there's so many layers to it. We,
I love it though. It's funny. I've done whole podcasts on the space mythology of Scientology.
And then I've done whole podcasts on the, you know, the actual problem with Scientology
Auditing. It took me like two and a half hours to like break it all down. Like what's really wrong
going on there with all that trans induction and other stuff. And then I've done other podcasts
about the shunning and the religious abuse that goes on in Scientology. I mean, there's a layer
upon layer of stuff here. And we've only hinted at, you know, the occult foundation of Scientology,
which is a whole nother episode. I mean, there's just lots to break down with this thing.
Oh, okay. Okay. So maybe we're doing a fly by, right? Because we're just, we're just doing a fly
by and with this fly by Chris, can you tell us other than the, the, the, the, as Karen mentioned
in an interview I've done with her, the bait and switch. Boom. We give you this solution to your
problem. See, ah, you see, it's true. Then they can switch on you and now you're hooked. What are
some other foundational, you don't have to be, you know, going up closer to David Miscavages to
see the harms. What are some foundational harmful things that they are giving you right out the
gate in introducing you to this? Sure. Other points tend to be, well, there's, there tends to be a
lot of love bombing at the beginning, which is a standard recruitment technique for a lot of
groups and cults. But love bombing is, is where they're, you're showering you with
adulation praise, ego boosting statements, things that'll, you know, make you feel good and stuff
like that. But they're also at the same time introducing to you what are called thought
stopping cliches, where there's just trite mantras or words or language or phrasing that
shuts down thinking rather than encourages it. If you start asking questions, even on day one
about, well, I read on the internet or well, I saw Leah's show or well, I heard about this.
Oh yeah. No, no, no, no, no. That's, you know, you can't believe what you hear on the internet
end of story. That's it. That's all they're going to say. Like there's not going to be any,
and let me tell you, Leah got this wrong and this wrong. And no, they're not going to take it to
that level. They're just going to tell you, no, no, no, you can't believe what you hear on the
internet and skip it. And you might think, well, that's a little brush off for them. That's all
the thinking required. And that's all the thinking they expect you to do about it because they just
want you to take them at their word that they know what they're talking about. Well, I'm a
Scientologist and I've never experienced any of that. So therefore it's all a lie. That's not
logical. That's not a logical statement at all. It just says you haven't experienced it, but that's
the unwarranted, you know, kind of thinking that goes on in groups like this is critical thinking
becomes, you know, the enemy of the activity. It becomes, you know, no, no, no, no, we don't want
any of that. And in fact, they'll kick you out if you keep doing it. You know, if you keep asking
questions or you start saying, well, wait a minute, I don't understand. Well, what about this and this
and this? Okay, well, there's the door. Clearly, we're not for you, you know, take a hike. And
they'll kick you out rather than engage seriously with you on these questions. If you get a go getter
staff member, maybe a new guy or somebody who hasn't really gotten the word yet, they might try to
engage with you for a little while. But the people who actually have the answers to the questions
that you're looking for, yet they're not going to come anywhere near you. That's an interesting
point, right? They already have the answer. And if they hear something contrary,
they're looking at you like, what's wrong with you? That's right. Something's wrong with you,
because you just don't see what I know. And I get a lot of comments on YouTube, when I do critical
response videos, pretending to Christianity, from those types, you get those types for like,
you're already you already the and they'll say stuff like the first three sentences told me
enough, you don't know what you're talking about, you're completely lost. And you need to ask God,
you know, like, this goes on. But that's right. And these thoughts stop in cliches. I mean,
we see them all over Christianity. And again, not to rag on people's beliefs. That's not my point.
My point is that there is phrasing in any religion in any activity that doesn't want you
thinking too much. There's Pat phrasing that you hear over and over and over again, or you've heard
of it, even if nobody's told it to you directly, that is intended to shut down conversations and
shut down thinking, God has a plan. It's all up. It's all going according to plan, right? Well,
what plan? Where? How do I, where is this plan? Somewhere? What is that? What exactly was it
in the plan that required my child to die? Because I'm not quite tracking with that.
You know, and then they follow up with, God works in mysterious ways, don't you know?
So you aren't supposed to know that. We know that you're not supposed to know that. The fact
that you want to know that tells us how dumb you are. I'm just kidding. That's how they respond.
And it's actually quite shocking, you know, the level of emotional, you know, reaction or
vitriol that can come out if you start asking too many questions. This is, you know,
this is kind of a red flag that you can watch for with groups is, you know, what happens when
you ask too many questions. So we have obviously cliche shutting down of your critical faculties
because of both the combination of we already have the answer, and you know what you felt
when we audited you. Right. So why the hell are you even asking these? You know, you're going
against who you really are by questioning that experience that you got from only the one place
that has the answer, which we already told you. Why are you going down that path? We've already
gave you the experience. So I'm tracking what you're putting down, Chris. You are completely
tracking and how you just talked is exactly how they talk. Wow. Sign me up if you're paying.
Now I'm just kidding. So we have those two and I'm sure there's everything like a web that goes
together. What else would you say are some of the things that are harmful that they're doing?
Well, okay. So then the other thing is the curves that get entered in, right? Okay. For example,
I talked about, I mentioned earlier, Devil Binds. Here's one. You're told in Scientology and you
read in Elren Hubbard's books that communication is the universal solvent, that it will dissolve
everything, that if you're having a problem in life or with other people, communication is generally
going to be the answer to that problem. If you're mad at me, well, we can sit and stew or we can
sit down and talk and maybe through talking, we'll figure it out. And that's practically a law in
Scientology, right? Communication is very important. And one of the things that I bonded with Scientology
very early on with was their communication emphasis. And yet, if somebody, anybody that you know
says a bad thing about Scientology, that is somebody that you need to kick out of your life
immediately and at once and never look back, lock the door, shut it, slam it closed, and that person
is, you know, is never to darken your doorway again. Well, how do these two things go together?
They don't, obviously. They're completely polar opposite concepts. But Scientologists hold both
of these things to be true at the same time. And it's mind numbing. It's actually crazy making,
because you read in the materials that Elren Hubbard wrote, and he wrote both of these things.
So he writes that communication is universal solvent. You know, this is how we're going to
deal with things. He even breaks it down into a formula, like a mathematical formula, cause,
distance, effect, you know, with intention, attention, duplication, and understanding,
like he's got this whole thing to this. This is how communication works between living or live
beings. And he breaks all this down, says this is super important. Auditing doesn't work if you
don't do this. Life doesn't work if you don't do this. And then you go, okay, Ron, well, here's
this person who's got some pretty big, you know, disagreements with you and your subject. Maybe
we should go talk to him. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. That
person's declared a suppressive person. And he's just a criminal. He's just, he's just awful. He's
immoral. And we're not going to have any connection with him of any kind, because if you, if you were
to talk to him, he could poison your mind. It's called n theta in Scientology. He could give you,
that's just n theta. They just, they just dump n theta on you, which means that word means lies,
rumors, bad news, vicious propaganda, you know, bad stuff. It's n theta.
That's all just n theta. And as soon as that word enters the conversation,
talk about thought-stopping cliches, that conversation's over. No Scientologist wants to
engage within theta. Wow. These two things don't go together. And these are fundamental
principles of Scientology. I'm not talking about some back-of-the-closet minutia. This is front-line
stuff, both of these. And, and they exist simultaneously in Scientologist's heads as
though it makes sense. And it doesn't make any sense. And that's, that's the kind of thing that
is done to your thinking in groups like this, is they mess with you and, and install ideas that
are mutually exclusive ideas and then force you to figure it out so that you don't think it's
mutually exclusive, even though it clearly is. It's, I'm going to analogize and tell me if I'm
close to what you're describing. Within Christian circles, their whole mission, and they are on
a mission to convert the world, to go and baptize in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy
Spirit, Holy Ghost, however you want to pronounce it. And they go out and they're supposed to preach
the gospel, the right gospel, of course, you know, not that one that, not the one that Paul's
literally rebuking in Galatians, but Paul's specific gospel. There's four different types
of gospels. Anyway, that's a whole another question. There's, yeah, we got to cross that one out. So
they're preaching the gospel and they get someone who absolutely refuses and rejects and let's just
say is sophisticated using thinking and critical skills. They weren't hooked in by the experience
and therefore they weren't sold something that they couldn't go against. Eventually what happens
when they do that, and this is the cliche, they run around and they say, you know, you're not
supposed to cast your pearls before swine. And you go, well, hold on, I'm supposed to convert the
world. But at some point when they reject your message, reject your gospel, they're villainized
in this kind of thing. And they're going in, they're just sold off to the devil. Like they are
literally swine at this point. Stop casting your pearls before swine if you can't convince them
of these things. I'm not saying all Christians do this, but it's kind of built into the reason why
is they're just not going to get it. So you start and they use that kind of phraseology. Like
here's our little escape route. Since they won't listen to us about Scientology, we're going to
go ahead and say that you need to cut them off. You just can't. You risk yourself going away
by their poison, then just, you know, leaving them all together. That's the best thing you
could do is just leave them be. Exactly. And the wording there is really does a lot of the heavy
lifting, right? Because what you have there is you have an effort at what we call othering,
right? Us versus them. Those are the bad guys. We're the good guys. We're the ones who have the
truth with capital T. They're the ones who reject the truth, who won't accept it. And
because we can us versus them, those folks, we maintain our saintly self-image and our pride
and, you know, we don't go into doubt, right? And uncertainty, right? We avoid that with this,
you know, we're going to bolster ourselves and they're aligned with the devil. They're aligned
with the bad things. Well, the analogy is perfect in Scientology because it's the exact same thing.
They, other, anybody who isn't on board with Scientology. And, you know, and you're like,
well, you know, you come in, you get all this love bombing, they're like, oh, one of the points
that they'll use with the love bombing is how aware you are, how extraordinarily perceptive you are,
or how, you know, spiritually advanced you are, that you could walk by and spot your group,
see where you needed to be, right? Understand the importance of this and the magnitude of what
you're getting involved in and how it would only be a big being like yourself. Who would know,
you know, that we're really onto something because, you know, Hubbard says only the upper
tenth of the upper twentieth of people will even become auditors. They're that special,
you know, this whole special status thing is part and parcel of, of cultic recruitment and
retention. And you got to be among the special people. And, you know, it makes sense. I mean,
everybody can kind of go, ah, those stupid people. But I mean, think about it for a second.
Who doesn't want to be special?
Special, exactly. Who doesn't want to feel that way? We all do. We all do. And the thing that
these groups do is they get away with bolstering your ego way beyond where it should be bolstered.
All of us should feel better about ourselves, but we should not have the view that because we hold a
certain set of beliefs because we know things other people don't know or have experienced things
other people don't know or haven't experienced because of those things. None of those make
us better people than others. We don't have more value. We don't have more meaning and we are not
more special snowflakes because of those three things. But these groups are all about fostering
the idea that we are. And that's that inbred narcissism that that starts coming out with
these things. And Scientology really does lay it on quite thick over and over and over again. So
by the time you're at the level of a Tom Cruise where you're at these upper OT levels where you've
been given all the secret sauce, you start thinking of yourself in very gratuitously egotistical ways.
And that's a scary place to be when you're so gone. I don't know. I mean, these are opinions,
but as far as he is deep as he has gone, and I suspect he's gone deeper than many ex-Scientologists
to there in terms of the psychological brainwashing that he has endured because of the status he has
within the cult as well. Do you ever see him coming out? I mean, I'm not gonna say there's
no hope for anybody, but like, I don't think they'll ever allow him to get to that point. What do you
think? Oh, no, he could leave tomorrow if he wanted to. I mean, they couldn't stop him if
he wanted to leave. There's no there's nothing there keeping him there against his will. Right.
The thing about narcissistic inflation is that you kind of have to have a little bit of that there
to start with, right? I don't know that you can create narcissism from scratch. But if you go
back in Tom Cruise's history, for example, you'll find that, you know, an incredibly inflated ego
from very early on, and he was always walking around on sets, you know, even back to the Outsiders,
you know, all the way back. Good movie. Yeah, great movie. Big cast of people, lots of talent on
that set. But you can bet Tom Cruise, you know, was absolutely sure he was the most talented.
And he wasn't, you know, he's not the most talented actor, but he is willing to work hard.
I'll give him that. He absolutely works his ass off. And he's willing to be even put himself
in harm's way. Some might say that's a little extreme and silly. That's why we have stuntmen.
But, you know, Tom's all about self gratification and self, you know, propaganda. He's always about
talking about himself. So that's kind of always who he was. And Scientology got its hooks on him
pretty early back in the mid 80s. And so he has been ego bumped, you could say, right, many times.
And it and it's like money. It just brings out whatever's there. It brings it out more. Right.
You know, one analogy before we wrap this thing up, I bring it back to my specialty. You know,
you have the Scientology know all when it comes to these things, whereas I have more of the
Christianity know all from my experience. So I was part of the reformed camp towards the latter
parts of my Christianity, where I thought God predestined people. He had elect special people
that he predetermined before the foundation of the world, whose names would be in the lambs book
of life. He knew who was and who wasn't. Right. And depending on that was your brand. That was where
I ended up. Yeah. So for for a period of time, I thought God predestined everything. Yeah. There
are certain groups within the group that think, well, no, like he didn't actively cause right
everything to be the way it is. He passively causes. So he either actively
of like goes and inserts his spirit into people, which is the people who believe,
by the way, he chose them. And he's he's also the one who makes them sustain their faith.
So when you leave, it's part of their five tulip theology, total depravity,
unconditional election. He chose you unconditionally before the foundation of
limited atonement. Jesus's death and blood was only poured out for those he died for,
which are the ones that are going to be saved. Irresistible grace, where eventually
God's grace will overwhelm you and you will come to the gospel and you will come to believe
and perseverance to the saints. Those who remain faithful till they die or to the end until the
coming of the Lord. Those are the ones. And so in my theology, I actually was never truly
a believer because I left. So it's like this trap door. Once you walk in, if you walk out,
duh, even the believers who watch me on my channel, I get a lot of these comments. You
were never really truly a believer. You were that that little seed that landed in the crack of the
asphalt and it sprouted up quick, but it died out. You were never really chosen. But there is a
psychological thing that goes in it. And there's their answer is within their own circular reasoning.
You can't get out of the bubble. How do you get people out of that bubble in Scientology?
What is it that you have found that has worked, Chris, if you don't mind me asking?
No, it's fine. I mean, it's, you know, it's a little bit of a complicated question.
But I know, right? You know, how do you get people out? Well,
basically what I've, what my take, my, my idea of this and it's, it's maybe a little reductionist
and it's not a hundred percent. It doesn't, you know, there are other reasons people get out.
But the way I see it, mostly it starts with or is hinged on a moral, an undeniable moral
transgression of some kind is witnessed or experienced by the individual in the group.
And, and they react negatively to that because it's undeniable. I mean, there's a lot of moral
transgressions or immoral acts of crimes, you could say, that people witness in groups,
like Scientology, that they give a pass to. They just, yeah, no, it makes sense to me. I can
understand why that had to happen or why it did happen and it's all good. But even with somebody
who's done those kinds of things and we all do when we're in a cult is we just ignore red flags,
let stuff slip, let stuff pass. But something happens that's personal enough, direct enough,
and is big enough that it assaults our very sense of right, wrong in a way that we cannot deny.
A child gets, you know, assaulted or your wife, you know, you're told your wife is going to get
shunned and you're going to have to divorce her because we're kicking her out of the church
because she had impure thoughts, right? And so you got a decision to make and we're going to
make it for you. And you're like, yeah, no, I didn't really want to make that decision for me,
right? I think I should have something to say about that. That kind of situation presents itself
and it causes a sudden awakening of critical thinking of skepticism of, wait a second,
I didn't think my group was going to do this, you know,
this is said in a million, there's so many different ways this gets expressed or said,
you know, I knew you were a cold hearted bastard, I just didn't know you were going to be a cold
hearted bastard to me, you know, this kind of, it becomes personal. Somehow, some way,
whether it's done to the person themselves, or their loved ones, or somehow they see or experience
it and they go, wait a second, something's not right there. Now, maybe that's not enough to tip
them over the edge. It's often not. It's usually a series of incidents that have to happen,
depending on how deep the person is in their emotional investment and their belief.
Because emotional investment can be very, very strong. And the more, you know, you get sunk into
these things, the more you're invested, the more your entire life revolves around this. Remember,
at the very beginning, I said, this is a totalist group. It wants to take over every part of your
life, your friends, your family, what you even, even what you're wearing, what music you're watching,
or listening to, et cetera. I mean, all of this stuff ends up eventually being controlled by the
group. So when you've had enough, or you've suddenly realized this has become too much,
or something happens that triggers that, that's where that tends to be the first nail. That
tends to be the first thing that happens that you go, Oh, wait a minute, something might not be
right here. And then maybe there's another one, and maybe there's another one, and you're more
open after that first one to seeing them before you were totally blind. No, no, no, nothing's
wrong. I don't see anything wrong. I don't hear anything wrong. It's all perfect. And then something
happens, you can't deny. And it starts to become game over. But even that process, like for me,
that first one hit me 10 years before I left. So it took a while, but I was second gen. I was
raised in this stuff. I didn't have a different worldview outside of Scientology. So I was as
all in as you can go. Other people, you know, have different experiences and different levels of
commitment as a result. So for some people, they might see something like that that I described,
you know, hey, you're going to have to disconnect from your wife. Oh, really? No, I think I'm going
to disconnect from you. And off they go, right? And they just leave. So it can happen quickly,
or it can happen slowly. It all depends on those levels of emotional investment and on social
networks. It depends a lot on that because social pressures alone will also keep people in these
groups. There are so many things that come to mind and that we have to discuss. Tell us briefly
while we have you here, your YouTube channel, what's it about? And in what ways can people help you
out in what you're doing? Great. Yeah, it's all about everything we've been talking about this
hour. It's all detailed on my channel in, you know, I've done interviews with psychologists,
sociologists, neuroscientists even, I mean, I've even gone there. I know this is the kind of stuff
that is just intrigues me. And I'm all about trying to figure out why people act the way
they do and why they think the way they do. And that's what my, you know, my own cult recovery
and the process of coming out of a cult mindset and re-acclimating to the big wide world,
that's my channel. And in the process of doing that, I've basically just been trying to educate the
whole world on all the stuff I've been learning and not from the point of view of I'm projecting
my problems onto everybody else. I know everybody has different experiences and different problems.
But I think no matter what the experience or problem, when it comes to coercive control
situations, domestic violence, you know, trafficking stuff, culty stuff, my channel addresses all of
that. And I, and like you, I've done interviews with former Mormons, former JWs, former Christians,
as well as former Scientologists, and even, even dived into the multi-level marketing and large
group awareness training stuff like AMOI and Herbalife and, you know, those kinds of crazy
things because they're just as culty as Scientology. I have actually participated back in the day with
one of those pyramid scam type. They want you to change all your habits of buying. Everything
goes into this one-stop shop of everything, of living the whole nine. Maybe me and you need to
talk at some point. Can you tease our audience with any, any, any updates about what's been happening,
maybe with the case that just took place with, with the famous actor, Danny Masterson, Danny
Masterson. Yeah. And then, yeah, some, give us some teasers here. I know. Yeah. I know this
isn't going to be, I don't know when this is dropping, but, you know, when we're, when, as I'm
sitting here right now, we just, we just dropped word that I've got an interview coming tomorrow
with the chief, with the jury foreman of the Danny Masterson trial and that resulted in a
mistrial. There's a lot of controversy, especially in the ex Scientology world. Tons of questions
about what's up with that all answered by the jury, right? And, and some of the answers that he gives
and some of the data he gives is going to be a little surprising to people because there's been
an awful lot of attention on Scientology in that case. You know, the jury might have had some other
ideas about what they thought was important in that case. And that's what we go over with him.
And then you also have, you know, on my channel, you have regular content coming out on, you know,
just last week or two weeks ago, we dropped the occult foundation of Scientology all in one place.
You know, you listen, you need to give us a, a listen for two hours and you will understand
Scientology to the level that not even any Scientologist understands it. So we got good
stuff, you know, there's a lot of good stuff on my channel. I do a live Collins show right here
every Friday night. I do a Q&A show every week where I answer people's questions, sometimes live,
sometimes be recorded, as well as my podcast. So I, you know, there's just so much there for
people to take advantage of and I, and it's all there for free. And I really hope they do.
Thank you so much, Chris. We have way too much that we have to talk about in the future,
and we will. I really appreciate your time and energy and this, we just barely touched. I think
we haven't even touched. We just saw the tip of the iceberg, not even the whole thing out of the
water. We just saw barely. So there's so much. Go subscribe to him right now. Go check out his
live streams. Go check out his Q&As. Get behind what he's doing. I totally stand behind what he
is standing for and you will see him in the future here on MythVision as long as one of us doesn't
die. So thank you. Thank you so much. You bet. Thanks, Derek. Bye.
