That's right. The dream team, trouble is here and we are live discussing the Dead Sea Scrolls
with a Dead Sea Scrolls scholar. And of course the question today will be why? Why are the
Dead Sea Scrolls so important? And we'll be taking questions of course from our audience
but also diving into this deep. Did you want to comment on that?
Yeah, no. Live from the MythVision Studio in person.
He's not a phantom?
I'm not a phantom.
Dosatism is false.
Physical resurrection. And we will discuss the Dead Sea Scrolls. We will discuss what
even scholars are still getting wrong about them. And we will discuss my harrowing journey
to get here.
Stay tuned.
Back in Washington, HIP Davis is getting his first look at a final prized fragment in the Museum of the Bible's collection.
This is a fragment that contains text from Genesis chapter 32 and it's supposedly from the first century BC or the first century CE.
This is a fragment that contains text from the first century CE.
This is a fragment that contains text from the first century CE.
This is a fragment that contains text from the first century CE.
This is a fragment that contains text from the first century CE.
Alright. That's my favorite intro on MythVision, the way that I produced it.
Mine too.
It is.
I mean, until you get your Matrix one up and running.
That's true.
But the fire is coming, people.
The fire is coming.
You're going to have to.
You're going to have to.
I always enjoy that.
You were actually working on the...
What were you working on in that production?
That was all filmed at the Museum of the Bible.
And that's all from the Nova Documentary Dead Sea Scrolls Detectives.
And I was working on the fragments that the Museum of the Bible owns.
So they have 16 individual fragments.
They're all forgeries.
And that was part of the purpose of the documentary.
And part of the reason I was there was because up to that point, I had not...
I had worked with the photographs and I worked with the literature and a bunch of the other stuff that was kicking around.
So I knew enough at that point to strongly suspect that these were forgeries.
So it took a trip out to Washington D.C. to do like a physical examination in person.
And then while I was there, the documentary company contacted me and they're like,
Hey, can we just come and film while you're there?
That's awesome.
It was pretty cool.
It was pretty cool.
And I was very happy that I got to wear my black Calgary Flames t-shirt.
And they didn't have to smudge out or do anything with the images.
Yeah.
So he told me the director said that if I was a Yankees fan, he said,
I probably would have had to change because apparently the New York Yankees,
they've got bought scouring social media and everything.
You can't wear their stuff.
No, no, no.
They'll, they'll ding you.
That's weird.
With a copyright infraction.
So it's good to meet you, Derek.
Yeah.
Finally in person.
We're going to hang out with you for a little bit.
He just got in.
We're going to talk about his trip to in case you guys want to ask any questions.
We will derail to your super chats to discuss it.
Dr. Kate Davis, if you're new to him, he is a Dead Sea Scroll scholar to put it in another way.
He's a biblical scholar and we're going to discuss that as well.
This is something that I find quite ironic, especially with what I do on meth vision.
By the way, do I need to scoop this so that you're not like hanging off of the, is that better?
Yeah, maybe.
That's a little better.
I think that's better.
Out of your way.
Okay, cool.
Thank you.
So for those who are tuning in, be sure to subscribe to his YouTube channel.
I did pin it to the top.
He discusses Dead Sea Scrolls, obviously biblical stuff.
He does anti-apologetic work because he finds that much of the work there is just to be frank dishonest with the material.
Is that a fair assessment?
Not everybody.
I'm not saying everyone's motives are, but there's like this agenda, right?
Oh, yeah.
So you're really dealing with that.
Yeah.
So, um, sorry, I tune out for a second.
We're talking about the, are we talking about the series yet?
Well, I was just pointing out your YouTube channel.
So, and that's something, I mean, so one of the things that I get into a favorite of my series is my new series on the Dead Sea Scrolls is that they have been a tremendously useful tool for Christian apologists in large part because they're so old and
because there's so many of them that you can, you know, there's narratives that you can construct from the material when you're selective about it.
And so for Christian apologists, it's easy to construct narratives out of us, out of the select material that they focus in on to say things about the Bible that may not necessarily be accurate, but they're not the only ones.
Right.
Um, like one of the things that, and I'll get into this a little bit more in the series.
It's really one of the really interesting things about the history of the discovery of the, I thought I turned that off, sorry, the history of the discovery of the Dead Sea Scrolls is that obnoxious Pat Lowender.
Who is that guy?
I don't know what he's doing, but so the history of the discovery of the Dead Sea Scrolls is quite fascinating because it, it happened right at this, this turning point in history in 1947, when the scrolls were, were found by the time it had been.
Uh, and first purchased by, um, the Metropolitan Mar Athanasius Samuel, as well as Eleazar Sukenic, the professor of archaeology at the Hebrew University.
This literally happened right at the end of the British mandate for Palestine and right at the time when Israel declared nationhood.
Right.
So what has happened, uh, since the time of their discovery is someone like, well, the state of Israel, um, has used the scrolls themselves to.
Justified, bolstered their claims of nationalism.
Yeah, absolutely.
Right.
Absolutely.
And it's, uh.
Christians, you know, they eat that up with the whole 88 reasons, the Lord's coming back in 1988 and stuff.
And it's 40 years after this time period when they discover them.
So there was, that was actually one of the justified reasons a lot of Christian evangelicals were like, Hey, Jesus is coming back in 1988.
It's been 40 years since we discovered the sacred text and somehow that helps.
And then they go even further.
Right.
And like, oh, well, since it didn't happen in 88, it's double generation.
So it's actually 80 years after the discovery.
I'm like, you know, so the, um, so the, um, I'll just say this one more thing, this, this one thing, the, um, this one thing.
Um, the sixth day of war, which was, and I should know this off heart, but I'm sorry.
I'm, I'm really literally only had like two hours sleep in the last 37.
So he's been on a journey.
Let's put it that way.
So the sixth day of war, um, what happened was, was Israel managed to, to annex and, and occupy all sorts of.
All sorts of, uh, of new territory.
Um, most of which they, they, they still hold.
Um, importantly, part of which was, um, on the West bank there.
When, uh, when the palette, when, when the British mandate ended and, uh, the state of Israel.
Uh, was declared after, after lots of, of, uh, armed tension, I guess in the region in 1947, the dividing line actually had all of the, all of the scrolls that scholars were working on in Jordan.
So the Palestinian archeological museum was where all the scrolls were housed.
And that was still part of Jordan in East Jerusalem.
And then after the sixth day war, that was, that was a big part of, uh, a big, big part of, uh, what, what Israel, thank you.
1967. That's a big part of what Israel, uh, annexed and along with it, all the Dead Sea Scrolls that were, you know, basically Jordanian national property at the time.
Uh, Jordan still has scrolls.
Uh, and there's, there's interesting stories about that.
Uh, there aren't any scholars who have seen the scrolls that are in Jordan.
For over, it's gotta be 30, 40 years now.
Wow.
And, uh, like I know the people, um, my, one of my mentors, Marty a big is the current editor in chief of the new series of editions is called Dead Sea Scrolls editions.
Um, and, uh, one of, uh, his co-editors is, uh, Allison school field who's been doing the work on the community rule from cave one.
I think it's, I think it's the community rule from cave one.
Yeah, that makes sense.
But, uh, a lot of that material.
Uh, is still in Jordan and she has been, you know, working like crazy to get into Jordan to go look at this stuff.
And it's, I hope it frees up and there's always so much.
There's, there's things that I can't say.
Yeah.
About why, but, uh, I don't, I don't expect things to, to loosen up anytime soon.
But, uh, it's, it's, uh, yeah, it's wild guys.
Yeah.
I hope things do.
And we're going to discuss today, of course, with you why they are so important, the discovery of the Dead Sea Scrolls and how they really impact our study.
I mean, I've been interviewing Yonatan Adler recently and I just interviewed John Jay Collins the other day and his work and how he sees the rise of what we call Judaism actually happening pretty much Maccabean onward, like pretty much.
Um, are there some forms of something prior?
Maybe.
I mean, like he points out archeologically though, there's no evidence they're actually keeping the laws that we're seeing written in the Torah.
That's the Pentateuch, if you will.
Um, but after that, you start seeing all sorts of archeological evidence to suggest that common people, like the everyday people are starting to practice this religion.
And this is where we get these fragments that play a role in the origin of this thing we call Judaism.
So we're going to discuss this and, you know, whether or not.
Before we move on, can you move this, this question here from, from Man Bear Pig or this, this statement wasn't the Israeli general in charge during the Six Day War called Moshe.
I'm not sure about that, but I will tell you that, um, the, uh, the deputy prime minister at the time of the Six Day War was Yigalia Dan, who was also a tremendously gifted archeologist and biblical scholar.
And, um, this is, this is a, uh, an amazing story that I will, I will get into, into some greater depth in your series in my series.
So they need to subscribe.
Guys need to subscribe.
One of the, one of the most famous, one of the most recognizable, one of the most impressive of the Dead Sea Scrolls is called the Temple Scroll.
It's the largest of all the Dead Sea Scrolls.
It's, it's gigantic and it's not even, it's not complete.
Like we don't have the beginning of it.
Um, it's badly damaged.
And one of the reasons it's badly damaged is because, uh, when, uh, at first the, the, the Bedouin, uh, were, were found all these, these fragments, these loose fragments, and they were bringing them into the, uh,
the, uh, Palestine Archeological Museum to sell them, uh, to scholars.
Uh, but they would, they would bring them through a, uh, an antiquities dealer in Bethlehem.
His name was, uh, uh, uh, his nickname was Candle.
Again, lack of sleep.
I'm blanking on a lot of this stuff.
I'm sorry.
But, uh, so he, he, he would broker all these sales basically between the Bedouin and, and the, um, uh, the scholars.
At the, uh, Palestine Archeological Museum.
And, um, it's said that over 90%, 90, maybe even over 95% of everything that was discovered actually passed through his hands.
He was, he was holding, he was pulling some things back and holding onto them.
You know, as, as later discoveries started coming in, there's so much material, um, with an eye to, you know, the future.
He was, he was, he was planning on, um, on setting something aside that he could make some real money on.
Yeah.
So, and one of these items was the Temple Scroll, which was this incredibly impressive, large manuscript.
Um, he, word is, the rumor is that, uh, that he hid it under the floorboards in his bedroom.
And as it sat there for years, and actually the, the whole bottom rotted of the, of the manuscript brought it away.
Um, and scholars, people kind of knew about the existence of the Temple Scroll.
Um, and he had it there for, I think it was, I think it was 19.
I'm probably going to get this wrong, but I believe it was either, it was either 19, somewhere between 1959 and 1961 that the cave 11 was discovered.
That's when he had it, and he had it all the way up until the, uh, the sixth day of war.
And, um, he was, you know, in some soft negotiations with some anonymous, um, uh, representatives, uh, to, to try and sell the Temple Scroll.
Originally he wanted to sell it for a million dollars.
And, um, the, uh, the offers weren't that high.
Well, at least not all of them. Um, it's stuff I'll get into in my series, but, uh, to shorten the story up.
Uh, um, Yagel Yadin, who was the deputy prime minister at this time, knew about the Temple Scroll.
And as soon as the war ended, what happened was, uh, Cando's home was part of the annexed area as well.
So, like, I've heard, I've heard various versions of the story.
And one version of the story I've heard that they literally rolled the tanks, the Israeli tanks up to his house and walked inside and basically, you know, grab the scroll and walked out with it.
Um, I've heard other, I've heard other versions of the story that no, there weren't any tanks and it was just some, some representatives from like the state police force.
And so, but, but, you know, they ended up basically, you know, grabbing this thing.
I must point out that, um, um, Cando was eventually paid by the Israeli government for the scroll.
But this, I mean, this happened quite a bit later.
Wow.
Initially, they just came in and grabbed it.
So.
Jeez.
Anyways, there's lots to talk about.
Yeah.
So we've got, all right.
So we already have some people who are throwing money at us.
And of course, you know, me, man, my ears perk up.
Hey, support the channel by Super Chat.
So we'll get into that here in just a second.
Exactly.
I do want to let everybody know once again, Dr. Kill, as he goes by, is trying to grow his YouTube channel.
Let's grow it.
And I'll be checking the subscriber count when we get done here at the end.
We're at 7.01 K, which means he just broke 7,000.
Yeah.
And there's less than 10.
So 7,000, what?
Less than 10.
I think you want me to do a live show.
Get an exact amount.
Well, now it's going to, some people have subscribed probably since we started.
Wow.
I'd imagine.
Well, this says 7,012.
So where were you at before we started?
I don't know.
I think it was probably, I didn't check it yet.
We will come back to it.
So we're hoping people will subscribe.
I think we'll get up to, what, like 100,000 at the time we're finished.
The stream here.
I wish.
We'll hopefully get you like 20 or 30 maybe.
I don't know if there's any people tuning in.
I hope we can grow it there.
Also, keep in mind, you know, I mentioned the Patreon a lot, right?
So he's here in person.
We're doing a series of lectures pretty much.
We're going to be documenting a, like the real ancient Israelite religion.
And we're going to have that documented, but based on the actual evidence.
And he's going to be going through an extensive call to course, if you will,
showing and teaching that, and you'll be able to get the course once that edits
and stuff will actually be here for a full week, full week,
living in Derek's basement, like a Hebrew debt slave, not a chattel slave.
Not a chattel.
Debt slave.
That means it's good, right?
It's better.
It's better, right?
It's not.
Better than chattel.
Not so bad, right?
Yeah, like, here we are.
Apologist for a form of slavery.
No, seriously though, he's here.
It's all bad people.
We're going to be recording the course, but I also want to emphasize about
being a patron member, we're going to take one question per patron member.
And I'll be recording that again in 4k, like I've done with Dennis McDonald,
and I'm still editing those.
I'm going to be pumping those out like I did with Richard Carrier,
like I'm doing with other academics that I've done.
You get your question in by supporting the channel and becoming a patron member.
And by the way, you could join as little as three.
And the tiers go up from there.
We also have the course on Mark that we have launched out with Dr. James D. Tabor.
You do not want to miss this course.
Link is in the description.
This is what it looks like for anybody who's like, well, what's in it?
Lots of content pertaining to this mystery gospel that was forgotten by Christians.
Yes, it's in the canon, but every time they're reading Mark,
they want to jump to Matthew and they want to go to Luke and they want to emphasize John and they want to,
but Mark needs to be read as Mark.
And he is a scholar who he has an expertise not only on Paul, but recognizing Mark.
And here, reading recommendations, bibliography, lectures are all in 4K.
So you're going to see him actually teaching and taking you through it.
Sign up for the course.
There are seven lectures in that course.
I think we're going to have quite a bit.
Look at that handsome man.
Look at that guy.
It's, I mean, you can't just, it makes you want to take the course from him.
Of course.
Look at his face.
It's like it's shining.
I'm almost terrified right now.
I kind of feel like he's seen someone's body parts, back parts on a high mountain.
It's just glowing.
Dr. James D. Tabor is a fantastic friend.
I love him to death and he really like puts his heart into the Mark course and all of his students
at all of the universities, every time he lectures on Mark are like, that's our favorite one,
because he is telling you like, listen, no, no, no, did you hear that?
I don't think you caught that.
Look at what Mark said.
And he's just, what a wonderful teacher.
So here's my shameless plug for helping the academics such as Dr. Kip.
Once we do his course, you'll be able to sign up for his course and it does help him.
So it's a win, win, win, win, win for everybody to be educated as if you were in a university.
And it's 4K.
I mean, if you're, if your vision is bad, right, go get a pair of glasses and then actually watch it in 4K.
The quality is just phenomenal.
So please consider signing up.
There's my absolute shameless plug.
Somebody, I noticed somebody in the chat asked Eric if there's any nudity in the course.
That's not only fans, you know, and we'll set that up this week.
Okay.
So I can, I can confirm from my course, there is no nudity, but there is guaranteed profanity.
Yeah.
So, so you're, and that's something that we talked about when you early on, I asked Dr. Kill,
I'm gonna refer to you by your AKA, I asked him about, did they do human sacrifices,
which Francesca Stavrakapulu actually wrote her dissertation on this very thing in her first publication was like,
yes, there was ancient human sacrifice.
And it seems that the Bible, the text we have has a fossil in it of this idea.
And you said, yeah, and then you played a clip that I never was able to show because you took it from Game of Thrones.
That moment where the witch is like telling the guy to sacrifice his daughter to the gods.
In order, I can't even remember what the goal was.
Oh, yeah.
So Stannis Baratheon is trying to defeat the army in, I believe it's in Westeros to take, to take control of the city because he needs it for his campaign to become the ruler of the seven kingdoms.
And there's this, there's this harrowing episode all about the sacrifice of his, of his only.
That was like skin crawling.
It is, but there's another important part and I don't think you've seen this in my lecture and this is so this is I this is part of part of the course you'll get to you'll get to see all of this.
It's lecture 7.2 sacrifice and appeasement.
And the second scene that I feature from Game of Thrones in that in the course in that lecture also shows because I think people human sacrifices is one of the most awful things ever.
I mean, let's get let's be clear here.
This is this is the truth.
Yeah.
But I think we, we have a tendency to, to step straight from that to whoever made this decision or whoever was involved in something like this must have been just an absolute monster.
Right.
But they weren't.
And I think this is if, if anything, I think something like human sacrifice is, is a dire warning even to, to all of us.
Just how capable we all are as human beings who think we're doing the right thing and who oftentimes will will make terrible decisions out of sheer desperation.
I want to add that earlier when you came here and said that's why I like I'm scientific in my thinking because we connected dots in the ancient world that we now know they're not genetically connected.
Oh, why is there green?
Why is life coming?
Oh, well, Venus.
Well, every time there's spring, you see a certain star and it's the star that has the power of life.
Now we have no, there's cycles in which we measure time, but Venus isn't bringing life to earth.
Right.
Whereas the ancients might have attributed to this God in the sky, this planet planetary body to, you know, they thought, well, if I sacrifice this, it's magic.
Number one, that they believed actually cause some type of change and may help bring crops or help the nation to get whatever it might be.
We now know better.
Yeah.
Than that.
And I think that's your point.
Yes, exactly.
We now know better.
And that's why I think we shouldn't judge them as they weren't doing this to be cruel and bad.
And that scene even shows it in the Game of Thrones, which made my skin crawl.
Yeah.
The guy didn't want to do that to his daughter, but the witch insisted that he did it in the screen.
And in the other scene, you see where they play this whole interaction between him and his little girl out.
And it is he's in a position where he feels like he has no choice.
Yeah.
He has to do this.
Yeah.
He hates the option, but also recognizes that it's his only one.
And one of the things that I like to do and what I hope to do through the course, there's several things that I hope to do through the course.
But one of those things is to really try and humanize.
Yeah.
People who lived at that time, who practice weird shit.
I'm sorry.
I had to add while you're saying that.
I hope that our descendants do the same to us.
I hope that they're critical of what we're believing in doing today.
But at the same time, recognize that we're people, just like everybody else.
And we're going to mess up and we're going to do weird things because we think it's the best thing to do.
Like, why would you grow your goatee out of that?
I mean, come on, you know.
It just encourages people to grab it and to drag me around on the floor and to punch on my teeth.
Exactly.
Sorry.
That was...
I'm throwing another just being stupid.
Your point, though, is don't judge the ancients in that moral sense.
Learn from their mistakes.
I think it's okay to judge, but I also think we have to first understand.
And we also have to first put ourselves in a position to recognize all the factors that we're at play.
Awesome.
Okay.
And everybody, thank you for...
We literally hit the 30-minute mark right now.
So that's perfect timing.
Let's do it.
Constellation Pegasus.
What's going on with Rashi commentary on Isaiah 45.1 through 7?
It says the temple was destroyed and Israel sent into exile because Cyrus didn't build the temple
and let others do it.
So Cyrus doomed the nation?
Confusing.
I thought Cyrus was the one saying go back and build it.
He's a hero.
Yeah.
So I am very sorry, Constellation Pegasus, that I don't know Rashi very well.
It would take me some time to look this up and see what's happening.
Maybe I hope this will serve as a soft consolation for me failing to answer your question.
I was actually reading an article a couple of days ago about 2nd Isaiah in particular
and how much the Cyrus propaganda that's in there is close to and follows much of the other Cyrus propaganda
that was written by the Babylonian priests.
If you don't know the story, Cyrus, the great internationalist, the great accommodator,
maybe the first globalist, recognized brilliantly that how important religion I guess for lack
of a better term was.
So one of the things that he made an effort to do when he conquered Babylon was to restore
all the temples to Marduk and got right in with the priests of Marduk who still exercised
lots of power in the city.
Now Marduk is not Cyrus's god.
And then one of the reasons this made such an impact is because he was ousting Navinus
who were told had neglected the Marduk cult and he went off out into the wilderness there
and started worshiping and he set up a cultic center to the God's sin.
Of course in the minds of the Marduk priests this incurred the wrath of Marduk which is
why the nation fell apart under Navinus and that's why Persia had to come in.
In fact there's one of the texts, I don't remember off him which one, but one of the
texts actually has Marduk in first person calling to Cyrus and inviting him to come
in and restore the city and to make it great again.
It's make Babylon great again.
Oh that's funny.
So Mabba, is that what you're trying to say?
Mabba.
So what I do think is interesting about what you said there, if we took serious that literature
the way a Bible believing Christian or Jew might read it, if I read it using the same
kind of approach they do, I might walk away thinking this God really actually said these
things and that they actually, you know what I mean?
But all the Mardukians.
Yeah all Mardukians and Duki, that sounds kind of funny.
But yeah like that's why aren't we granting the same credibility to that as we're over
here doing to the Bible and special pleading.
So thank you so much Constellation Pegasus for real, really appreciate the support always
seeing in the chat.
It means a lot.
Nidimus, dishing out death blows to the Apologists who rely on Dead Sea Scrolls.
Oh it's coming.
The whole series.
We've done it a little bit already but it's coming and I hope everybody's seen the introduction
videos so far, the first one in the series.
The second one is available to watch on my Patreon where I did the Isaiah Scrolls, not
just the Great Isaiah Scroll but there were actually two Isaiah Scrolls discovered in
the first cave.
And in that one I much more directly tackle the Apologists themselves and some of the Apologists
apologetic rhetoric that has surrounded the Scrolls falsely or at least in half truths.
And one of my goals is to try and set the record straight and to level the field a little
bit in terms of who is telling the stories about these manuscripts and about this literature.
So the Isaiah video, is that the second one?
That's the second one.
So it's on Patreon.
It's on Patreon.
But I'm going to sell the farm right now.
It's actually going to be published on YouTube for everyone this week.
Okay.
But you are going to be looking for, I mean you are going to make more.
Of course.
I'm making more and I expect part three to be loaded up to my Patreon sometime in mid-February.
I think this is you.
That's me.
This is you.
So now just to let everybody know how they can come in support and what you're doing,
you have a Patreon.
I do.
And this is 1.2.
So get ready for a series.
Go become part of Kip's family.
And do you answer questions?
I mean, whether you do or don't, it's your choice.
Do you answer like when people message you on here, can they directly message you as patrons?
Yeah, most of the time.
I think I've done okay with answering questions.
My higher tier patrons, I have promised, I think I promised it once a month.
I hope I can live up to that.
This one?
Do you only have two tiers?
I have two tiers.
But my higher tier patrons, I actually promised a private group session once a month.
It may not be quite that often.
And something that I have suggested too, and I'm kind of keen on doing, and maybe you want to be part of this,
I'm going to start exploring this in earnest, but those documentary hypothesis videos that Michael Jones put out,
I thought maybe it would be fun to sit down with my patrons and just watch through them carefully.
And to talk about them and to see what comes out of that.
Maybe I'll manage to make a video.
I had a scholar come on who, like his two PhDs wrote a book called Why Abraham Murdered Isaac.
And he's a supplementary hypothesis guy.
And he came in and he knew right away when I sent him the videos and said, hey, let's do a discussion.
He was like, I can tell already just by the videos that I saw.
Well, well edited.
Very good production.
He had positive things to say.
Michael's sharp.
He is very sharp.
He said, but I'm going to tell you right now, like, no serious scholars in the field anywhere in legit,
like academic circles that are talking textual criticism that are dealing with biblical studies like this,
are trying to harmonize, homogenize the authorship of this literature.
So, you know, we can disagree over is that P is that D is that E is this, this, that is a supplementary.
Is it documentary?
Is it this and that?
But at the end of the day, he's like, nobody's trying to do an apologetic to make Genesis one and Genesis two the same author.
Nobody's trying to take Genesis six with the flood and make it a single author that is writing two different accounts into one thing.
Like, nobody's doing what he's trying to suggest in this video.
And it's almost unanimous that while we don't agree over the minutiae of things, we all agree multiple authorship with multiple different voices.
I'll say it that way.
Yes.
So anyway, I think that it's not only an addition.
It's not only going to dish out death blows.
None of us to the apologetics out there.
I think it's going to bring death blows to serious scholarship as well in the way that they are approaching Dead Sea Scroll material.
I'm not going to say it's actually going to make an impact to them because they live in ivory towers.
But I think for anyone who reads them and they'll hear your angle and take that there's a lot as we talked about upstairs.
And I'm sure we'll cover over this week that is being ignored or isn't perceived even by scholarship.
Yeah, maybe we should talk about that a little bit before we get to the next super chat.
I was going to say my sights might be set a little bit high.
But I mean, one of my goals is peace in the Middle East maybe to come out from my Dead Sea Scroll series.
That would be great.
That's a little high, but it's only the entire region going and having peace.
Yeah, while we're waiting for peace in the Middle East, one of the things that I also want to bring out with regards to the Dead Sea Scrolls and why they're so important is...
So within biblical scholarship and one of the reasons that I went into studying the Scrolls early on.
I'll confess at the outset when I had decided to go to grad school and when I decided to pursue an academic career.
It wasn't my first choice was not Dead Sea Scrolls.
In fact, there was a time I seriously considered pursuing Syriac texts, which would have been fun too.
But one of the reasons why I started working on the Dead Sea Scrolls in grad school was because you're dealing with a period of time between 250 BCE roughly to about 100 CE, this 350-year window.
And it's right in the middle, if you're a biblical scholar working on the Scrolls, you're probably working on Old Testament texts and you're working on biblical interpretive methods and traditions dealing with Old Testament texts.
But then you're also dealing with this whole cultural world and what's going on in the New Testament and what we at a time talked about this parting of the ways between Judaism and Christianity.
So there's right away when I kind of got in there, you could see and for lots of people who entered the field like I did, I heard much the same things like you're dealing with an enormous collection of literature that rather stretches nicely into both camps.
Because for most biblical scholars, they either distinguish themselves as an Old Testament scholar or a New Testament scholar.
There's very few, if any, real true oath who can do it well enough.
I don't know if there's any left anymore.
And part of the reason for that is just because everything's gotten so specialized.
But then what I have discovered, I mean, it's a nice idea, but what I have discovered is that it's not just that, I mean, the public has, and there's a public perception about the Dead Sea Scrolls.
Yes, we've got all these manuscripts and there's a whole bunch of Bible in there and they were collected by this weird sect of Jews who would ritually bathe and had these strange ideas about the end of the world.
And about the people who are controlling the Jerusalem Temple.
People know a lot of this stuff, but even among scholars, I think we fail to grasp really the grand significance on this.
We're talking about the earliest copies of any Hebrew Bible text and multiple copies of most of the Hebrew Bible texts.
In terms of actual hard data, that's it.
There's really nothing else earlier than this.
And this is all from, like I said, as early as 250 BCE.
So all of this, all of it, post dates, you know, Alexander's conquests and the onset of Hellenization throughout the region, which deeply, deeply affected Judaism.
What we're dealing with when it comes to the Dead Sea Scrolls is really like the kernel.
It's the origin story of Jewish religion, of Christianity.
But more importantly, and I think this is where people tend to miss the point, you know, it tells us a great deal about even what preceded it,
because we just don't have any, we just don't have the textual data to support the ideas that scholars have put together with regards to what we call Israelite religion.
I mean, we, you know, scholars are looking at the archaeology, they're digging in the dirt, they're cataloging and they're examining artifacts and material culture.
But there's not much in terms of, there's no literature there, no Hebrew literature, or let's call it, I don't even like Hebrew when we're talking about that period.
Let's talk about, like, no Canaanite, it's like a, it's like a Sarah, it's like a Sarah Canaanite group of people, right?
There's nothing but not literature.
And what I'm talking about literature is, these are, you know, fine works.
This isn't documentary text like Letters Back and Forth Between Generals, or markers, victory markers set up by Generals and Kings.
No, I'm talking about literature, which is predominantly what we have in the Hebrew Bible.
So my Dr. Fodder was George J. Brokken.
He used to say to me, he said that when I, this is him speaking.
Yeah, do it, do it.
I love this.
When I teach the Old Testament, he said, I do it differently than everybody else.
He said, and everybody does it wrong.
He says, I do it right.
This is Professor Fort telling me.
And he says, the way I teach the Old Testament, he says, I don't start with like Genesis, or I don't even start with methodology and with like the documentary hypothesis and, and with, with the typical things that, that most teachers tend to start with when it comes to teaching a class like the introduction to the Hebrew Bible.
He says, I start with the scrolls.
He says, and the reason I start with the scrolls is because this is ground zero.
This is the starting point.
Like this is what we have.
And he says, we have to work backwards and we have to work forwards from this point.
But this is the point.
And this is where it all is.
This is so powerful.
What you're saying, because like for those who've watched Russell Gubirkin come on and he thinks there's more Hellenistic position to the Bible.
I don't know.
I'm no expert, right?
But I like, I listen to this and I really enjoy his perspectives.
And he goes, and he makes his first book Genesis.
And he says it's Genesis, Borosis and Genesis, Manito and Exodus.
And of course he goes in to be critical of the Pentateuch.
He's doing it from the literary standpoint.
And he, he does ground zero.
Like he's like, all right, we have Dead Sea Scrolls.
And the best we have is that there's supposed to have been a translation of a Hebrew version of the Bible that we have traditionally into Greek.
I mean, like this, this is like the Septuagint.
Right. The Septuagint.
And it's like the best we have in terms of knowing that maybe something's going on.
Other than that, he's like everyone else who's arguing, if you go to any of the, go to you name it, especially 19th century scholars, they use historiography.
Well, they accept what the text says as if it's telling you history.
And you kind of just take it, well, Josiah discovered a scroll.
Well, you know what, this is where they actually wrote Deuteronomy.
So it's not that he actually discovered a scroll.
It's when they actually wrote Deuteronomy.
And that's been the, the model everyone's worked with.
And he wants to challenge that, you know,
I will say, sorry to, on that point, I just want to tell everybody that if you haven't watched it yet, you all need to go and watch Dan McClellan's brand new short about the about Josiah and about the Deuteronomistic history.
And on YouTube.
Yeah, it's on YouTube.
That's on YouTube.
So it's, it's his most recent video on his channel, but it's very, very good.
Like Dan does like these nice short little, little videos.
And this one is just, he's so slick.
He's excellent.
We should like do shorts about his shorts and like the little like to the look.
See, he's got a new one already today.
So it was, why was Asher vilified?
And he had uploaded that just yesterday, but we should probably.
Okay, continue.
We should probably continue.
Yeah.
I mean, we have so much we're going to cover this week.
And I hope to record it with a high quality camera.
So there's just so much to discuss about this stupid horror energy.
Thank you for the super chat.
What is the value of DNA research?
If any, any evaluating the Dead Sea Scrolls.
So if you, if you didn't know, there have been a DNA tests conducted.
I don't know how many I'd have to go back and look, I have the, I have the numbers somewhere, but a number of the manuscripts in the Dead Sea Scroll.
So, and, and just to give everybody an idea of what we're talking about here, we're talking about roughly 900 manuscripts.
Probably tens of thousands of small fragments that have been basically pieced together on the basis of a variety of methods.
Which constitute over 900 or around 900 individual manuscripts, all dating between about 250 BCE to about 100 CE, roughly 20, 25%, maybe 30% of them are what we would call biblical scrolls or copies of biblical books.
I hate that term and I get into why in my, in my, in my, in my series, my YouTube series.
Most of the other literature is stuff that we've never seen before.
They're, they're different, different types of, of works about, you know, the prophets or, you know, there's, there's texts in there about angels or about Enoch.
And then there's a whole collection of, of rule texts for governing, you know, for, for life in the community.
There's, there's piles and piles of liturgical looking stuff similar to the Psalms.
It's just this massive collection of all sorts of different types of literature.
So several of these manuscripts, I'm, and again, I don't know the numbers offhand have been, they've been DNA tested.
And I, I'm not, I'm not really clear on, on all of it.
I haven't done a ton of reading about this particularly, but I do know it might have something to do with dating.
But one of the very valuable things of DNA testing is that this is one of the methods by which they've managed to match your amongst this, you know, jigsaw puzzle,
this 10,000 piece jigsaw puzzle.
But it's, it's, it's worse than you think because we don't have, you know, a picture on the box of what it's supposed to look like in the end.
And it's even worse than that because, you know, most of the pieces are missing.
So, you know, it's an incomplete jigsaw puzzle.
So there's all sorts of things that scholars have had to do, matching handwriting, matching damage patterns on men, on individual fragments.
The most of the, most of the fragments are parchment.
So one of the things that has been done has been counting the hair follicles on the, on the, on the hair side, which is usually the recto side of, yes, the recto side of the manuscript.
And, and looking for, for hair follicle patterns and DNA has been quite helpful in showing, oh, this fragment actually came from the same animal.
Oh, that's awesome.
So, you know, more than likely, they were part of the same sheet at one period of time.
You know, that's something that it's the lots of the science involved in the study of the Dead Sea Scrolls is pretty wild and interesting.
And I wish I knew more about it.
I hope that I hope that helps to answer your question, at least.
That's awesome.
Thank you so much for that super chat.
Being fairy with Psalms 2216 is the Christian Bible wrong in its translation is does the text actually say like a lion and not pierced?
If so, why is Christianity being dishonest?
I wonder if you're the, if you're the person who asked this question on one of my videos, just in the last couple of days, I remember seeing this question on one of my videos.
So I'm going to try and do this quickly.
And I'm going to recommend you can find things like there was actually a good 20, 25 minutes summary on Gnostic Informance Channel.
I talked through in considerable detail, the fragment that contains Psalm 2216 from the Dead Sea Scrolls, and it's actually from a scroll that was discovered at a place called Nachalchever, which is in the Judean desert region,
not actually part of what most people consider the Dead Sea Scrolls, which are those that were found in the 11 caves of Qumran.
It's further, it's further south.
So there is one fragment from a Psalms manuscript that contains this text and how to how I'll try to answer this this quickly and reasonably concisely.
So was Psalm 2216 in the Christian Bible wrong in its translation?
Yes.
So but it's, it's much more complicated than that.
Does the text actually say like a lion and not pierced?
Yes, it says like a lion and not pierced.
If so, why is Christianity being dishonest?
Well, I don't think they necessarily are.
And what's happening here is the way I've explained it, I think the way I explain it on that Gnostic Informant video is that what's taking place is a scribal error in the manuscript itself.
The person who has copied this text from another manuscript has made an error.
He's made a copying error.
And this copying error has caused confusion for the translator of the Septuagint.
And so the translator of the Septuagint translates the word Kaare, which means like a lion as I don't remember the Greek word offhand, but the Greek word means to dig.
And it's, he translates it that way because he thinks it's the Hebrew verb Kaeru, but a weirdly spelled form of Kaeru that exists virtually nowhere else in any Hebrew manuscript in the world.
So this is what the Septuagint translator has done.
So he is looking at a manuscript that already has a mistake in it and he's trying to figure out what do I do with this?
I think it might be this word.
So what it ends up saying is a dog surround me.
Offhand, I'm sorry, my brain is.
And just so you know, I corrected the link in the description for his YouTube for some reason it wasn't filling out the whole thing.
Oh, so subscribe to Kip's YouTube channel, but I did have it pinned in the comments.
Dog surround me a pack of evil ones closes in on me like a lion.
My hands and my feet, it probably means something like like a lion, they have mauled my hands and my feet are like a lion.
They've eaten my hands and my feet, my, my hands and my feet are gone.
So the way this reads though in the Septuagint is dog surround me a pack of evil ones closes in on me.
Literally they dug my hands and my feet in the Hebrew word there is most commonly used for like digging a pit or digging a grave.
Overzealous Christian apologists for hundreds of years now have looked at this and assumed that what this means is they pierced as in dug holes in my hands and my feet.
So ergo, this must be a prophecy of the crucifixion.
It really isn't if it is I mean it's it's the sorts it's the product of the sorts of accidents that occur all the time within within manuscript production in antiquity and I mean this is how this is this is how
Is this a Jewish idiom? Like kind of like born of a woman and I've heard mythicists will say like hold on born of a woman is who would say someone was born of a woman.
Of course everyone's born of a woman and woman you're not going to be born if you weren't born but it's not it's like saying he's a man.
I know if it's it's not a Jewish idiom it's not an expression we know from from anywhere.
So like I said the word in I think I did the numbers once I think it occurs nine times in the in the Hebrew Bible and eight of those times it talks about just you know digging a hole basically right.
The one time there's one time where it appears metaphorically in a Psalm about about basically boring boring a hole in your ear so you can hear kind of thing right and I think that's the closest analogy you can get to
the the reading in the Septuagint but I think I need to be abundantly clear here it's not just the the translation that's a problem.
The word itself.
If it is you know K do this verb it's not spelled correctly and it's spelled so awkwardly that it's extremely difficult to to forward this idea that this is and one of the reason this that this should be the reason and and I'll finish with this one of
the reasons why we should be confident that it's not it's not just a just a novel spelling of the word is because when scholars analyze early Jewish manuscripts.
You notice all sorts of different types of spelling conventions at work to put to put it simply you know you've got manuscripts that have what we call short spelling and manuscripts that we have.
What we call long spelling and everything in between and the reading in in the manuscript from now however is long.
The problem with it is that the scribe for this whole manuscript because we have multiple fragments from this manuscript the scribe consistently spells very short.
So it just it doesn't fit the profile on any level.
Thank you so much being fairy really really appreciate that.
I noticed I have a huge fan in the chat where they are.
Oh, here they are.
Thank you Aaron flower for the wonderful compliment and the amazing support that you have for me and what I do.
It's just wonderful.
I never challenged to be a singer over the Torah or Jewish faith.
Appreciate the compliment man really appreciate that.
And I was like I'm going to pop this up.
Like it's funny how I have to make a comment about this that's just just for audience understand like.
And you and me talked about this action on the phone multiple times like about about so yeah well about this whole ordeal and their size and stuff.
Oh yeah it's tough.
Well yeah it is tough because at the end of the day like tovia knows I don't believe and you know he doesn't challenge me trying to shove Judaism at me or down my throat or anything like that.
And I have no goals and sitting here trying to like I'm not that kind of guy where it's like all right now you're wrong and you know like that's not the kind of atheist.
You're probably not the right guy to do that.
That's not my interest.
Yeah.
In fact there's a reason he won't show up I suspect on the typical atheist channels out there.
You know he knows that I'm more interested in information and the ideas and discussing these things.
But I think if your agenda is that you want a atheist experience call in show where it's challenge everyone who's a theist everyone who has a claim that may not be grounded with any evidence.
You know when I'm doing these episodes that's not what you're getting.
So if you think there's a place for that.
Yeah but the hypocritical part is they're like well yeah but they're like it's hypocritical because you're not challenging him but you do it with Christian apologists.
You challenge Christian apologists.
Right.
And I guess to give myself some credit on this is I was a Christian and I was in the Christian apologetic arena went to college in the vein of Norman Geisler.
Like I was legit going down that apologetic route.
And at the end of the day also is like I've enjoyed some of the discussions I've heard from Rabbi Toby Singer and I'm like OK.
But he's just a delight to listen to whether you agree with him or not.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Listen to him.
He is fun to listen to and you can learn some stuff and you can disagree at the end of the day.
But I think that there's like this you know you shouldn't be buddy buddy with the guy if you're going to be critical of Christianity and Christian apologists but here's the deal.
I'm friends with Christian apologists.
I've even invited Christian apologists on the show and I challenge them on these things but they're like you double standard you don't do it to Rabbi Toby Singer.
I don't know name any Jewish rabbis would be happy to just come on to discuss our differences and stuff.
Maybe I'll make that happen at some point.
But I just it's never been a goal like hey I'm ready to challenge you dude and trying to never admit the guy and over there in the Holy Land we're in Jerusalem hanging out.
There's nothing like that.
So I don't know.
I felt like making the comment.
All right.
Impassing contextual religion in the house.
Thank you for the super chat.
Do the books in the Dead Sea Scrolls such as Enoch book of the Giants Genesis Apocryphon and so on look like they're new to the culture or do you think there's as old as the Abrahamic Moses like stories we know and we're done away with.
Yeah you know there's there's there's there's a couple different schools of thought on this and I and so these are what one of the interesting things.
Excuse me.
One of the interesting things about the Dead Sea Scrolls is that it's not just Hebrew literature.
There's lots of Aramaic texts in there and there's a handful of Greek ones and I honestly I I don't know what to do with those.
But there's lots of Aramaic texts.
And another one of the interesting things is that there seems to be a pattern within the Aramaic literature.
All the Enoch texts at kumran are Aramaic.
All the so called what we call the there's a handful of manuscripts identified as pseudo Daniel.
But there's a whole bunch.
There's a bunch of other scraps of fragments that that I would classify as Danielic as in you know related to him in one way or another.
These are Aramaic.
There's there's texts like the Testament of the the 12 Patriarchs.
There's there's an additional Testaments of additional Patriarchs.
These are all in Aramaic.
The Aramaic Levi document.
There is a pattern within all this this literature.
Whereby it looks like there's there's a relationship there.
And I'll I'll mention the name of one scholar.
Gabrielle Bocciccini out of Italy wrote a book once.
I believe it's called I'm going to get this wrong.
He wrote a book basically about Enoch traditions at kumran and forwarded a really novel argument.
Whereby he suggested that there was an Enoch ektora that was in competition with the mosaic Torah.
Isn't there like five sections I heard to the Enoch so it's almost its own Pentateuch in a way.
That's that always caught my attention too because I haven't read that word.
And it's Aramaic.
It really makes me wonder especially when I read Enoch the Enoch is the Moses of their tradition.
And they're competitive between you have Enoch which precedes.
It's almost like they're also jabbing because they're saying yeah you might have Moses but our guy got way back and he was even taken by God.
He was in heaven.
You know he he got all this cool shit.
So it's but this is and Gabrielle Bocciccini has has structured this argument historically to to try and link this idea of these these factions these priestly factions which collected these these two separate Torahs.
And he's attempted to link this historically to to some of the the goings on during the the Seleucid and the Ptolemaic periods just prior to the the Hasmonean revolt there.
It's all it's all really really fascinating.
Now I think I think one of the things that I should point out here too when you're adopting a view like this or when you're exploring a view like this.
It also really raises the question again about like how how antique is some of this stuff anyways.
Like certainly nobody believes that that the books of Enoch go back to Enoch anymore that anyone believes that the books of Moses go back to Moses.
Daniel goes back to Daniel.
But so but but what what this does suggest if the if Bocciccini is right and if there really were these factions that that controlled these streams of literature then then we would imagine that the roughly contemporary with each other.
And maybe all of this really we can only really trace it as far back as as Persia.
And that's like and we don't even have that's the thing about what Jonathan Abler saying like we don't really have anything that actually there there seems like early parts of Daniel is an air make and it may go back to like you're saying this Persia.
But no definitive it's all linguistic historiography and like they're trying to like they're trying.
You're a maverick like David A. Falk.
You'll just throw Daniel right there in the fifth century BCE still trying to wrap my head around that.
But anyways that's that's what I can't wait to see you cover more on that.
Someone was saying hey I noticed you responded to him.
Yeah go check him out.
There's a new one coming.
There's a lot I'm sure.
And Dr. Dr. Dan McClellan Dr. Joshua Bowen my good friend Dr. Matthew Munger the famous Dr. Mote we're all getting together to watch us some some David A. Falk ancient Egypt tall ancient Egypt in the Bible or something I think is the name of his channel and and I have a special guest coming to it's a surprise.
Not not telling.
Oh snap.
I can't wait and Derek Bennett's going to be doing a response to that stuff coming up because he did a jab.
I did his popcorn review.
Yeah.
And so maybe I'll hand Derek some popcorn and we can really fun.
Oh yeah.
Perfect popcorn for popcorn right.
I for an eye.
Great question though I love that question.
That really is I'm glad you went down that rabbit truck because I forgot about that.
Thank you so much.
Oh no what's going on in Jordan.
What's going on in Jordan.
I missed it.
Scrolls there hidden from the public.
So this is I got I'm sorry this is like it's contentious.
And there's so much more going on that I just I I can't I can't talk about publicly.
All I can say is that and I and I honestly can all I can say is is Jordan is not as politely declined is continuing to politely decline.
You know academic requests requests from Western scholars to come in and examine their their dead say scrolls and hearing it from their side I've seen.
I've seen emails email exchanges between the director of the of the Department of Antiquities in Jordan and some of the scholars.
Some of some of the scholars he's he's talking to and I got to say.
I mean if I was in his position knowing if some of the things he says is true then then I also would be reluctant to to open things up.
But I honestly I'm sorry I can't I can't say much of anything about this because it's it's really really sensitive.
Okay.
Thank you.
James thank you for that super chat.
Was there a sect of Israelites who sacrificed children.
Are they talked about in the Hebrew Bible or is there some other source for this.
So I I wouldn't say it was a sect.
I would say that Israel the parlance the archaeological parlance of what we identify as ancient Israel is not much different at all from
other Canaanite neighbors in terms of how they lived and how they practice religion.
And one of the things that scholars are quite confident of is that child sacrifice was a part of religious practices in the region and that would include that would include Israel.
And we see we see fragments we see echoes of this throughout the Hebrew Bible.
In the book of Exodus there is a there is an instruction and one point to to offer your offer your your first born son basically along with the first born of your your flock and and and your your the first fruits of your crop.
And of course this is then repealed in Leviticus and Deuteronomy.
Ezekiel reflects back on this and says that that Yahweh gave commands to the early Israelites and they sacrifice children and you know he did so as a means to
So there's he's he's taking like maybe not direct responsibility, but he's certainly implicating him not always implicating himself in this practice.
You have examples of child sacrifice in the Hebrew Bible.
The offering of Isaac is a child sacrifice and there is a there is a Midrashic tradition from the medieval period in which Isaac is actually killed.
He dies and he is resurrected.
There's the offering of Jeff the Jeff does daughter is a is a child sacrifice.
There is there's there's evidence that suggests that that the writers of the Hebrew Bible viewed child sacrifices efficacious meaning that it worked.
Not that they thought it was good necessarily.
Yeah, but at least that it worked.
There's there's which would would explain why they would offer they would sacrifice children to Yahweh.
There's a story of King Misha who offers his his first born son as a sacrifice and the text the natural reading of the text despite what did what Michael Jones wants to tell you.
The natural reading of the text and this is this is largely the this is this is the majority opinion among scholars.
The natural reading of the text suggests that the sacrifice worked and that the sacrifice turned the battle enough that the Israel ended up going retreating and Misha got away.
And I'll I'll just mention I mean there's there's Kings Manasseh and I believe his father.
I'm going to get the name wrong offhand but but there are there are there are Kings Judean Kings who who offered human sacrifices.
Josiah this isn't a child sacrifice but when Josiah goes on his campaign of of cultic reform one of the things that he does after cleaning out the temple and then and then destroying all the high places.
One of the things is that he does is he goes to the shrine at Bethel and it says there that that he broke down the altar and then it literally says within the text that he sacrificed all the priests on the altar in in Bethel and this is a sacrifice to Yahweh.
Most of your Bibles will read that he slaughtered the priests but that's not the word the Hebrew word is he sacrificed.
I do think it's ironic to like for those who try to argue against this their entire Christology is built off of the notion that God needs a human sacrifice.
Yes, he needs it.
Yes.
This is this is what this is.
And when I was interviewing Francesca after reading her book.
I've got it somewhere up here you know I love the brag shown that beauty sex sexy book.
Is that the God anatomy.
Oh yeah.
Okay.
And I wanted to like I really wanted to like press in on this idea that you know the way that Yahweh love the burnt offerings and sacrifices and stuff like their food.
The language there okay the it's very interesting it literally says throughout the throughout the text that when sacrifices are offered up they go up as a pleasing aroma.
You know he's taking it in right.
And one of the things that I like to point out is that the the word the Hebrew word for nose is off.
And it's also one of the words there's several words used for wrath wrath or anger but this is this is one of the more common ones it's it's synonymous.
There's a relationship here between and the relationship is embedded in this idea that you you offer sacrifices up the the God intakes the pleasing aroma and it soothes his raw.
Hmm.
This is the this is the location of the raw.
This is what you need to fix.
It's kind of interesting.
I wanted to ask like what about the human sacrifices you know like does that barbecue smell good to him and in a way it smells better.
Now I mean and this is one of the things I and I get into this a little bit and in one of the lectures in my course one of one of the things that that we do see is that there is there's there's a passage in the Bible which which suggests that there's like there's
an incremental there's an economy here when it comes to sacrifice and it's in terms of in terms of what's most what's most valuable to to the God and child sacrifices right at the top.
It's interesting that came in able story you have multiple threads like you have some that God did not want to sacrifice he wanted you know your good behavior.
And some people will capitalize on that and say well God never wanted a sacrifice to begin with.
But then you have those who go well I maybe there's multiple traditions and different people have different voices but when you read the came in able story.
Yeah.
He's not happy with able over with Cain's you know veg isn't his vegetables.
Yeah.
God's like give me that blood.
Give me the blood.
You know.
So yeah.
And part of the problem here too is that you're dealing with the Hebrew Bible as it's constructed is is is layers and layers and layers of tradition you know just stacked on top of each other.
So where you see places where there's you know God wants sacrifice and he doesn't want sacrifice or God God wants the blood of your firstborn son but no really he doesn't.
What you're what you're actually seeing is is is the the history of tradition right there within the text.
So the the scribes and the and the priests who are who are reading this stuff and rewriting it and fixing it fixing it correcting everything.
I love making it making it useful because really that's what this is all about is making it contemporary making it useful.
And this is I mean despite what any Christian church wants to tell you this is this is precisely what what everyone is doing today with their Bible.
Right.
They're making it as palatable as they possibly can so that it can still be useful and nothing's changed.
I we go about it a little bit differently but this is the way they did it back then.
You know you wrote you know there's all sorts of problems with Exodus so you have to write Deuteronomy or Leviticus or Ezekiel.
Right.
Like it's profits to adjust these exact things.
Well you know God actually what he said and what he meant and what and that's what we see with the philosophers in the Greek mythologies and how they saw Zeus.
It's really fun to see this it's almost like we're doing archaeology through a totally different archaeology of the text.
Yep.
It totally is.
I love that expression.
I love that too.
Thank you so much.
I'm sorry I detoured us into it.
So we'll try to blast through these so we can go to lunch and you know.
Sounds good.
Constellation Pegasus any conspiracy theories about Israel possibly hiding some text because they contain some bad stuff to support their religion.
I know I would say not.
And I actually think I mean I mean truth be told I mean there's plenty to be critical of the Israel antiquities authority about.
But truth be told the people that they have working there and in my experience I've met a good number of these people I've worked with them in the labs at the Israel Museum.
These are the best of the best.
And you know I the Israel antiquities authority for all its faults and all its flaws has managed in my opinion to maintain a pretty impressive commitment to science.
And they may not get it right all the time and it may take them a little bit of time because because of political pressure and believe me the political pressure in Israel when it comes to the material culture is fierce.
Even just period.
The tensions in the air in Jerusalem for sure.
Yes.
So yeah I I'm so I'm sorry I'm not I'm highly skeptical that that they've got stuff that they're they're hiding from the public.
Thank you Constellation Dr. Aaron and Darren the house.
Yeah.
What can you say about the copper scroll is there any consensus on its origins and interpretation.
The copper scroll is.
Sorry I can't swear.
It makes me want to swear.
It's amazing.
It is one of the most amazing artifacts to survive from an antiquity and if you don't know what we're talking about is a sheet of beaten copper measuring three meters.
And engraved with text.
How cool is that.
How cool is that.
So the copper scroll in simplest terms is quite literally an inventory of temple treasures and their their locations after having been absconded from the temple.
Right.
And I'm.
I'm not I'm not up to date on on where the discussion is now with regards to the temple scroll but I believe that most scholars will tell you that this is legitimate that this is an actual inventory of temple treasures that was.
Commissioned and then.
I mean what do you even say written no engraved I don't know.
It built by by somebody connected to the temple.
And it was it was done in anticipation of the the Roman invasion of Jerusalem.
Somebody saw the writing on the wall in advance and you know worked like a mother to get the loot out so that the Romans wouldn't get their hands on it and in order to to make sure that they didn't forget where they hit at all.
Now how early would you say like 65 ish to.
Yeah there abouts and I have to go back and look and look and see how they dated the temple scroll and I the the the script is is is pretty late is is what I would call it like a late Herodian or a post Herodian script so it's right in the right in the ballpark there probably.
Yeah it's before the war started.
Okay but I think it's it's one of those things where where I mean you know it the war was a long time.
So now now this raises a very interesting question that nobody has satisfactorily answered yet and that is this.
What's it doing in cave three.
Yeah like if this is a temple.
This is a serious and I'm thinking copper it's not a scroll it's a copper scroll.
So let's I mean to give people an idea.
Most of the scrolls were made of vellum like animal skin sheepskin cow skin most predominantly but there was some sheep and ram as well.
There were there were a number of scrolls also made with papyrus which was which was cheaper papyrus was quite a bit cheaper and and we actually know now to that this was they didn't have to import it from Egypt there was there's actually places close to the area there in the south in the
Negev where where papyri papyrus reed grows.
So they were sourcing like like papyrus relatively locally to make these things these were this was your always your cheapest option for writing like a like a manuscript or a scroll I'll say a scroll animal skins were more expensive but they were much more durable.
And they're much easier to read.
But these cost a small fortune.
Now, considering the the economics of what it takes to to write to commission and write a scroll just the materials and and you've got to hire you've got to hire the scribe to do it because this is not this is this is not something that just anybody can do.
It's a lengthy process it's it's a it's a labor intensive process it requires a great deal of skill.
It's expensive.
Now, you're doing it with copper.
Beaten copper.
This is a treasure.
The scroll is a treasure.
And I'll just say one more thing about which is super cool.
The copper scroll, when it was discovered, it was still, it was rolled up right.
And it was, it was extremely brittle.
fragile as hell.
And
John Marco Allegro
worked with the Institute of Technology at the University of Manchester.
My alma mater
to develop a method for opening
the copper scroll they basically built a special saw to cut carefully every
cut it into sections.
And now it survives in sections.
But at the University of Manchester where where where I studied for a time.
There is in in my doctor father, Professor George Brooks office while I still had an office at Manchester he had a the one and only as far as I know it is the one and only replica of the rolled
temple scroll made of made of copper is super cool.
Dude, that's why thanks Aaron.
Thank you so much for that question.
I will absolutely be talking about the copper scroll in my density scroll series.
I can't wait.
What?
Dr.
Matthew monger here in the chat.
It's not too late for Siri.
Matthew's just being kind.
It's because he's much younger than me.
He's got time.
I maybe you have time Matt.
Look, I can't wait to do more with him.
I always enjoy recording with that.
I can't wait to do more.
I am hoping Matt and I are actually hoping to do to do some serious serious actual scholarly work together.
I can't wait.
Matt, love you man.
Thank you for coming in and dropping that.
Dr. Aaron Adair.
Love you too.
I hope we get some work done in the future.
Continue doing what we're doing.
Pam Palmer.
Thank you for the super chat.
Love.
Myth vision.
Love the myth vision.
Thank you.
Appreciate that.
It makes me feel good to know that what we're doing is helping people.
I get, I got an email by the way yesterday that I was tagged into that was sent not only
to me, but also to Francesca Staparacapulu.
And this person wrote.
They literally, I mean, like it is emotional.
And it was like, you have no clue how much your channel has changed my life for the better.
Oh, wow.
It's great to hear stuff like that.
Yeah.
I mean, it was the most inspirational thing and I was like, wow, it's good.
Francesca's seen it because it's hard to even get her to email back.
She's so busy.
But I know that she sees that and sees the kind of what it's doing freeing people from
ideas that really kind of trap people in this bubble, ethically worldview, right?
So you think your ontology, whatever might be, it's a, it's a freedom that you just,
you realize like, whoa, we are, what are we doing?
Yeah, right.
Thank you so much for that.
Stupid horror energies back again.
You know, I got used to saying the name after a while.
I was just like, you know, well, if, if James from modern day Debbie can say it 10 times a
night, right?
Oh, I didn't even know that he says, I mean, then again, I haven't watched him that much.
He's gotten very good at saying it.
Okay.
Well, thank you for the super chat.
According to the Dead Sea Scrolls, Isaiah 53 11 says, after the suffering, he will see
the light of life makes it compelling as a Christian prophecy where the scrolls are all
influenced by Christians.
Maybe I will disagree with you as to how compelling that, that change makes, makes it as a, as
a, as a Christian prophecy.
I certainly know one of my mentors, Professor Peter Flint is the one who, who did the work
on this particular manuscript.
And this was a very, very as a, as a deeply committed evangelical Christian, this was
a very, very meaningful discovery for him.
Um, from my perspective, this is, this is something that still fits quite, quite seamlessly
within, within the type of Jewish expectation that was taking place, you know, in and around
the, the period in which these particular texts in second Isaiah were written, which
is, which is right, right around the Babylonian exile.
Um, this reading comes from one Q Isaiah, a the great Isaiah scroll, which is dated
to, um, it's most commonly dated to about 125 BCE, I think that's too old.
I would prefer to set it closer to, I would prefer to set it closer to early first century
BCE, but certainly first half of the first century BCE.
Um, and that's just too early for any kind of Christian influence.
Now, with regards to Christian influence on any of the rest of the texts, uh, that is,
that is a, it's that, that would be, um, I would say more difficult to demonstrate.
What we certainly see within the Dead Sea Scrolls is that, um, the people who were writing
and collecting the Dead Sea Scrolls and Paul and the early Christians were part of this
same cultural milieu and shared many of the same ideas and they, and they, they read texts
very similarly to one another.
Um, there was a, there was a thought, um, I don't know where the scholarship is on this
now, but for a time, there's a, there's a set of, um, manuscripts that preserve a text
called, uh, um, it's called, it's abbreviated MMT and, and, and the English translation
of, of that is, is some of the works of the law.
Um, it's thought that this is, this is sort of a, this is another one of these constitutional
documents, almost a, a declaration, uh, by the members of this particular community
to, um, their opponents, that, um, you know, this is what makes us, uh, distinct from you
and this is what makes us right.
Um, there was, there was a suggestion for a time that much of what appears in, uh, this,
this document MMT actually, uh, corresponds.
Um, but like reciprocally, uh, you could actually see a conversation taking place between MMT
and something like, uh, the book of Galatians.
Um, in terms of, of the, the, the, the question response with regards to what is the law
and how do we keep it and what, whatever it is.
So I know it's been, it's, it's been suggested that, that there's, there's, there's some
connection.
There's, it's also been suggested that John the Baptist, uh, wasn't a scene and connected
to the Kumeran community or even Jesus himself.
Um, and these are, these are difficult and challenging questions.
I personally don't, don't have a strong opinion on it, but I would, uh, in terms of influence,
influence working the other direction on the Dead Sea Scrolls, uh, I, I don't, I, yeah,
it's, I can't say you think that the Dead Sea Scroll community had more influence on early
Christians.
I would say that they didn't, I, I would say that I don't even know if I'd go that far
because I don't really think they cared that much about each other.
Um, I would say that they're, they're in the same world.
So like today, if we imagine today, there's so many different pockets of groups and stuff
and we brush shoulders, but we identify in different camps.
And so you wouldn't necessarily say there's a genetic, like I've had a, Dr. James Table
came on and he pointed out parallels, right?
Show how Jesus does things that look as seen.
Then he does things where he's like, no, as seen would ever do or say these things.
If you were to try and take the picture painted about him.
So he's like, if we were to try and identify Jesus, he isn't in a scene, but he does things
like a scenes, but then he also does things like a Pharisee, like he did.
So his point is, it's like, maybe he's not, you know, maybe they've talked and communicated
in some way, but not.
So I'll say, I'll say one more thing about this.
And one of the things that makes this, this is a difficult question to answer is, is,
is because of the mess that the New Testament is.
The New Testament is, is a, is a document that, that was written in the Greco-Roman world.
This is not a Palestinian text.
It's, it's a, and, and for that matter, you know, my, my very simplistic understanding
of, of, of early Christianity sort of follows this, this model where there was a church in
Jerusalem in the beginning.
This is where, where it started.
But we really know almost nothing about, about it.
And I mean, there's nothing, no, no literature has survived.
All we have is this later stuff from, from like Paul and from, you know, the, the gospel
writers and then the, the, the second century pseudepigraphers.
And they're, you know, they're reflecting back on not just a period of time, but also
like a, like a whole, like a, like a, there's a, there's a, there's a regional issue.
There's a language issue.
There's a, there's a time issue.
And, and it's hard to, it's hard to do this kind of archaeology in the New Testament to
get back to see clearly, you know, what was, what was the early Jewish expression of
Christianity?
We were, we're at a loss.
Yeah.
You know, and some of us just, oh, well, Dead Sea Scrolls, it was, it was the Essenes.
And I'm just like, you know what, I just, I don't, you, it, that's too far.
Like it's not, it's closer to that, but it's not that.
Hmm.
Thank you so much for that.
Constellation Pegasus, why are two here making a video and not at a kingdom hall supporting
Hova's one and only organization?
Armageddon is right around the corner.
I saw on my drive in here that there's a church of Scientology.
There is.
There's what we got.
It's pretty big too.
We've got Mormonism in, like they come around, the elders come around.
And if they come knocking on my doors, I'm like, Hey guys, come on in.
Come on in and talk with me.
And, um, we have good discussions.
That was, I haven't had them do it here yet, but back when I lived here two years ago,
I used to have like two young guys that were on a mission and we had good conversations.
If I were ever to, to reconvert, I think maybe I would be Mormon.
It's a fun, it's a fun thing to journey into.
Um, maybe Tobias Singer is just watching all your episodes.
Aaron, thank you for the super chat.
I love Toby.
I mean, I think he's a wonderful guy.
I mean, you might have disagreements with him, but he's a met him in person and he, he's pretty cool.
Actually took us around Jerusalem and everything.
Thanks.
Yeah.
Anyway, um, is that it?
Yeah.
I think that's, hold on.
Let me make sure.
I'm scrolling down, scrolling down.
Wow.
There's a lot of chat.
I am.
Oh, oh.
Mark's in the house.
Good to see Mark develop.
Thank you for the support.
Was there a period when they were forbidden to sacrifice humans?
Oh, yeah.
Where that.
Oh, certainly.
Um, yeah.
Like, I mean, the, the, um, the inheritors of what we call Israeli religion, the, what,
what became Judaism were absolutely fundamentally opposed to, uh, to any kind of human sacrifice.
So, but we just, yeah, how far back that goes.
Yeah, we just don't know.
Thank you, Mark.
Thank you.
By the way, um, make sure you ask a question.
We're going to record these in four.
But you know, I'm going to create the post on, uh, on the Patreon.
Is Dr. Kip the little spoon?
What a dick.
This is, this is an inside joke.
Oh, I thought he's talking about you and me or something.
Okay.
But actually it is.
I just thought of me.
So, uh, I'll, I'll, I'll pull you in.
Um, yesterday, um, our Oz's, Oz's good friend, um, Braxy.
Okay.
And, uh, Mr. Pritchett.
Got it.
Uh, they do, I mean, they do a live stream together every, uh, every week.
And they're usually sitting at their own desks, you know, talking to each other, but they
had a, they had a special guest on.
So they had to, they had to cuddle up and share, share a microphone.
So just squeezed up.
But we haven't, we haven't established that yet.
Yeah.
We have Ozzy Oz.
Um, we'll let you know tomorrow.
Yeah.
We'll let you know.
It's going to be probably a rock, paper, scissors situation.
We might incorporate the pistol into the, you know, we, we'll figure out, we'll let you
know how that one works out.
Thank you for showing up.
You know, they didn't like it when he asked them that question.
Oh, really?
Oh gosh.
Thank you so much for that.
And looks like this is our last one.
Would you say there was intersection of Palestinian Judaism's of the day and this element was in
the New Testament with Greco-Roman bias built on it with Jesus.
That's a little bit.
Would you say there was intersection of Palestinian Judaism's of the day and this element was
in the New Testament with?
Yeah.
Like I, yeah, definitely.
Like I think where, where scholars are now and again, I'm, I am not a New Testament scholar.
I'm, I spend all my time in, in the scrolls and, and in the early Jewish literature.
I know a little bit, um, about the New Testament, but I believe where most scholars land is
that there is, I mean, there is clearly a Jewish, there is clearly a Judaism.
Uh, behind the, the, the, the, the emergence of the church and, and of Christianity, right?
And yes, absolutely.
Well, there's, Paul has something.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
Even if it's Christy, it's still.
Yeah.
So, and, and that's really deaf.
That is really one of the, one of the, the, the very strong, uh, elements that, that comes
out in the, certainly the, the, the gospel presentation of Jesus.
These, you know, it's, it's very much, uh, you know, a, a, a Romanized, gray-asized,
but yeah, and yet you still see, you still see snippets and pockets of, again, this,
this, this, uh, this earlier layer of, um, of Judaism in the New Testament.
So, and honestly, um, you know, prior to the discovery of the scrolls, uh, in terms of
Jewish literature, the, you know, all you had, um, was, uh, you have, well, yeah, I
was, we're, we're, was elephantine discovered before the 40s?
I thought it was.
Maybe.
I thought they knew about, let me look that up.
Actually, that's worth.
So, and, and maybe, you know, forgetting about elephantine for a minute, but, but certainly
within, um, yeah, certainly relative to the, to the area too.
That's another important aspect of this is, this is stuff that was actually discovered,
you know, just outside of Jerusalem, right?
And not in Egypt or not in, uh, Europe or, or, um, around the Mediterranean or, or, or
something, right?
So, um, so it says 1898 to the 99, Richard August, yeah.
But, so like prior to that, you, yeah, you have the elephantine, uh, stuff and some of
that, lots of that's really, really interesting and, and odd.
Um, so much so that I think the first discoverers, the, the first, the first readers of, of the
elephantine, uh, papyri, uh, probably, um, uh, dismissed a lot of it as Jewish, right?
Cause it's, you know, it's, it's odd.
It's strange based on our expectations.
Um, so we had that, but most, most, most scholars just looked at that and said, yeah, that's
just a mongrel.
Um, you had Josephus, you had, uh, Ben Sira, you had, uh, you know, the, the, the early
or the late, the late, uh, stuff from the Bible.
So you have like as Renea Maya, Daniel, um, you've got Philo and then you've got the
rabbinic literature and problematically the rabbinic literature, which on the surface
of it looks like it's, it's the, the, the purest representation of, uh, Judaism from
the time of Jesus.
Because at the Mishnah level, you're, it's all, you know, it's the, the, the Mishnah,
the Amarim are all like as a really, they're all, they all start in the second century,
uh, AD like CE and I think, I think they're second, second, third century.
Um, so they're, they're close, right?
They're close to, uh, the time of Jesus.
Um, so beyond all this stuff for a long time, one of the best sources ironically that we
had for Judaism was the New Testament.
Um, and you know, I mean, that was troubling to a lot of people, um, for a long time and
it, and it, and it caused all sorts of problems too because for, for many, many decades, you
know, they're, by just reading the New Testament and attempting to, to, to gauge a picture of
Judaism at the time of Jesus, it ended up being kind of a caricature.
Um, because it's, like I said, because it's, it's, it's not, even though there's, there's
clearly Jewish roots here, it's not, it's not a Jewish text.
This, this is the difficult part that I've been trying to flesh out is how, how Hellenized
can Judaism or even Jews be to the point that isn't even recognizable in our, by our standards.
Yeah, right.
Could the Jew, could the New Testament actually be Jewish literature?
Um, at least some of it, not going to say all of it, but it's not what you would expect.
Um, so it's, it's, it's in the vein of something that is so radically Hellenized that you're
like, whoa.
Um, on the other hand, I, I tend to think there's this, the parting of the ways that is taking
place and something becomes so Hellenized, you almost wonder, is this really not Judaism
anymore?
Is this something else?
And there's, it's not either or, right?
We deal with the same thing today, politically speaking with sex and gender and all this stuff.
It's like there's spectrum here on the literature and it's so difficult to pin down because
it's not like, hi, Otheophilus, we're writing to the Christians now without Jews in mind.
Are you ready?
Like, it's like, here's this God fear, transitional, Gentile, strange thing where they enter the
synagogues and then now they have a whole new, so much stuff, so much stuff.
So much stuff.
Ah, I love it.
That's not it.
Uh, we got this one here, tunnels, AVA sirens.
Why was the church threatened by the scrolls?
Do you think they hold the truth about Jesus?
I think there's a, there is a misunderstanding here.
The church wasn't threatened.
I would say the church wasn't threatened by the scrolls and I think what the, what the
questioner is getting at here is that, so in terms of a timeline, the first scrolls were
in 1947, 1947, and then there were discoveries for the next six years up to 1953, at which
point they discovered cave four, which was like the mother mode.
So there was over 550, I think, manuscripts just from cave four and the really cool thing
about cave four is it's right there at the, the archeological site.
That's the famous picture, yeah.
And, and the thought is because this was a, this was an artificial cave that was actually,
you know, dug into the rock by people.
And then there's, you know, there's, there's indications that there might have been like
shelves for, for storing, you know, manuscripts.
The thought is that this, maybe this was like a library, right?
So like not all the caves, that's another important thing too.
Not all the caves are the same.
Like there's, and I think one of the really interesting questions with regards to the scrolls
is with the variety just between the 11 caves in terms of the, the dating and in terms of
what we think they were used for, like what, how, how does this affect the way that we,
we really understand the scrolls.
So, but that's, you know, again, that's something I'm going to get into in my, in my big series.
So discovered between 1947 and 53, and then cave 11 was discovered, I think in 59 or 61.
And it was the last, the last cave to be discovered.
And then volume one, which was all the cave one materials, this is the publication, the official
publication of the Dead Sea Scrolls was, was handled by Oxford Press.
And volume one, it's called the Discoveries of the Judean Desert series, appeared in 1953 as well, 1952.
And then volume two, which was archaeology and scrolls from the caves at Murabat, which is another one of these groups
of caves that are further down south, close to the Angeti.
That was volume two.
And I'm pretty sure that appeared in 1953 or 54.
I'm probably going to get the date wrong.
And then very few volumes after that, volumes three, four, five, six and seven all came out between
like 1954 and 1980.
Oh, wow.
So they were just discovering over there.
And yeah.
And, and like, like the cave three is, is the small caves.
So that's like all the, all the stuff from the little caves.
And then I, I don't remember offhand.
And one of those is, is the, the great psalm scroll from cave 11.
And then cave five is, is the volume that was deemed, this is the volume that Mark, John Marco Allegro edited and was deemed so awful that that they almost
the plans were in place pretty shortly after he published it basically to revise the whole thing.
And it is now coming out in, in Dead Sea Scrolls editions.
And then so, but the, there was very little material from cave four, the mother load that was being published for a long period of time.
And the way the, the way it worked was this was a hand.
It was a team of scholars that was handpicked by first father Roland DeVaux, who was the head of the Kobe bleak, which is the Dominican school, French school of archeology in Jerusalem.
And then after he passed away, it was John Strugnell, who was a converted Catholic.
So there's, there's this, this idea from outside that they were, they were holding stuff back or that they were, or that they were afraid for religious reasons.
That's just not the case.
It was, it was, it had a lot to do with funding.
It had a lot to do with just weird editorial squabbles that were going on just within the team itself, like, like it was a small group.
I think at the largest, the team got was was maybe 11 people handling all these fragments from all these, all these manuscripts.
And they started to endure a ton of criticism from the outside when they would have like Strugnell and Frank Moore Cross, who's, who's an American would have doctoral students, you know, come and, you know, work on fragments of the Dead Sea Scrolls that were not published,
you know, for their dissertation work. And, and you have like, like scholars who've been in the, who've been begging for access for decades going,
what the fuck, like, what is going on? Why are like these, these, these wet behind the ear, you know, doctoral students getting access to stuff that I, you know, I have to beg and plead and get turned down like on a daily basis.
And, and, you know, eventually, there was a Emmanuel Tov was installed in 1991, he was the, the, the last editor of the series, he was, he was the first Jewish editor of the series.
And with his installation replacing Strugnell, then, then it really broke things open and things, things came out, but it was, I'm going to repeat, there were, there were many extenuating, mitigating factors, which contributed to the slow publication.
And, and the, the, the group, the group of editors who are all Catholics predominantly, there is one or two, you know, Protestants in that group and virtually no, you know, non-confessional people in that group.
They became really defensive, but they also became kind of entitled.
But again, not for religious reasons. This said, this said, this is all politics and nonsense.
Thank you so much.
I'm not calling your question nonsense. I'm saying what was happening with them was nonsense.
Got it. And, and you can blame yourself, by the way, for the continuous super chest that keep coming in.
Sorry, I'm, I am a long winded.
No, no, I'm glad. I love these answers. I'm just, you know, making sure that you know that you can blame yourself, not me for this.
So keep going.
Thank you for becoming a member of myth vision. I really appreciate that joining the membership gives you absolute true Dead Sea Scroll Salvation.
Absolutely.
Without a doubt.
So thank you by the copper scroll.
That's 100%.
Critical faculty. Thank you so much.
Cheers, Derek and Kip. Keep up the great work.
And Hanny actually has a video coming up with guts and given if he hasn't already done it.
Guts at given are on raw and Professor Dave evolution together.
So be on the look out.
I will be making an appearance on critical faculty in.
Oh, you're going to want to go subscribe. Go subscribe to his YouTube channel.
Lady Washer. Forgive me if I butcher your name.
This is one of my, my loyal Patreon.
Is it Washer?
I think so.
Okay.
Well, let's put you on the spot. Why don't we, right?
Yahweh be blessed. Finally, we get to see Dr. Kill and not the Minecraft avatar. Great work, guys. Thank you.
Thank you. I really appreciate that.
Canadian internet.
Inquisitive mind. What do you think about for QMMT is the author James.
So I talked a little bit about for QMMT.
And I'm getting tired. So I'm just going to say no, it's not James.
Okay.
And yeah, I'll just, you should go back and watch if you didn't catch it.
I talked a little bit about it, maybe 20 minutes ago.
In response to a question about whether or not Christianity influenced the Dead Sea Scrolls.
Got it.
So the ghost of myth vision. Good to see you here. Thank you for tuning in and dropping a super chat.
And then one more question here. And what do the scrolls show about Second Temple exegesis?
Yeah, so yeah, that's going to be.
Well, I mean, one of the things, one of the things that the scrolls show us about Second Temple exegesis is that the New Testament authors and in particular Paul were just doing the same thing.
So the Second Temple Jewish scripture reading and interpretation is dynamic and it's varied and it's creative.
And it's not, it's very interactive with the text.
And we have, I mean, it's so complex and there's so much variety that one of the things scholars are still scrambling to do is to sort through and figure out how to, how even to talk about all this stuff.
You know, various, various terms have been, have been coined. And I think in many respects, unfortunately, applied to the text, you've got some texts that are designated as reworked versus rewritten versus paraphrase versus
Pescher versus, you know, you've got, you've got some texts that I'm still not even entirely sure the rationale behind this, but there is a group of manuscripts that's been designated pseudo Ezekiel and another set of manuscripts has been designated pseudo Daniel.
And, you know, that's reflective of another idea about the exegetical activity taking place there. So it is broad and it's varied and it's very interesting.
But one thing that we know for sure is that the interpretive process was a scribal process. And what I mean by that is that the way Jews were reading and interpreting what they believed to be quote unquote scripture, you know, whatever that meant.
It was part of, it was part and parcel of the transmission of the text. So it was part of copying a manuscript, copying a biblical manuscript was also meant, you know, interpreting that biblical manuscript.
Thank you, Apollo's appreciate the support. I really appreciate everybody in here. So before you go, we're going to check and see how many subscribers subscribed to Dr. Kip Davis and before I refresh, which you're going to refresh now, but don't tell him yet.
Don't tell me we want to keep it a secret. Okay, just like the copper scroll. Okay, we don't want them to know where the treasures are yet. We're going to refresh this and check it.
I really do appreciate you all go support Dr. Kip Davis over here on his, his Patreon, you can join those two tiers he is dropping early access in a series of Dead Sea scroll videos. He's not just sitting in front of a webcam he actually is editing it that would be enough, even for me but it's like
It is and I got to join your Patreon by the way so that I can actually see this stuff before you. Yeah, actually we should do that. Well I'm going to do that so that nobody sees my billing information.
I'm going to join as soon as we get off of here. Yeah, for sure. I mean, I help look at Nasa good form it Derek Bennett, you know, I support them. So I got to come support you. So I hope we can get some some Patreon supporters to help Dr. Kip Davis and what he's doing.
To motivate you also to to notice that this is an area of your life that putting time and energy and is worth. Also we have the Patreon, and I have so much content I really early release and this week over the week we're recording the next course.
I'm going to be taking one question per patron member and someone actually said to me, because I was like, you know, join the patron get one question recorded in fork and like, what a rip off why would I do that for one quite. But here's the thing they don't even these people who are criticizing don't even realize like, I'll like I'll be sitting.
I'm going to give people a tease here. I'll be sitting over here right in these chairs. By the way, it's blurry because I have it not on automatic here.
I'm sitting over here and I'll say, let's just use the Apollo's Christian apologetics. Thank you for your question. Right. Yes. Thank you for your question. So he wants to know what do this scroll show about Second Temple exegesis and the New Testament.
Wonderful question. Dr. Kip Davis starts to respond. We have a 10 minute dialogue.
Now I got to do this because I'm such a ridiculous. I like to show by actual action rather than just words. Right. I'm whipping out my 4k Canon R5C here. I'm filming multiple angles 4k got to edit this stuff later.
And you have a video where you are featured asking a question to a Dead Sea Scroll Bible scholar. And it's 10 minutes by joining the MythVision Patreon for $3 a month to help support us and grow what we're doing.
Nobody is doing this. Nobody. Who the hell wants to for $3 a month? I believe in people. I believe in our audience. I know they want to help. That's why I'm like, okay, help us out. Consider joining. And I hope that we don't get overwhelmed with too many questions because I know you only have one week, but we're going to do what we can.
Yes. Yes, we only have one week. So that's my and it almost didn't happen. It almost didn't happen. I've got like, by the way, I have to I have to I have to tell the story. Yeah. Yeah, you do. I left yesterday afternoon to to make the to make the the six hour drive down from Chilliwack, Canada to to southeastern Washington.
And I got as far as Seattle, and I was reaching for my backpack with my my computer bag, because I needed some Tylenol.
Seattle. And it wasn't there. So I called my wife, and she confirmed for me that yes, like an idiot, I had in fact left my computer. I had a show like just just to tease them with the name of the email.
Oh, my God, that's I almost want to do it. But then again, there might be private emails. I don't want people seeing it's it's Kip Davis is email, right. And then the title of the emails, my husband is stupid.
LOL. And then it sends me this email, my husband is stupid. LOL. And I'm like talking to him on the phone. He was, did you see the name of the email? Like, and I'm like, yes. So he had to turn around yesterday.
I turned around and drove all the way back. And then I left very, very, very early this morning.
Got stuck in customs for almost an hour to be here. Yeah. And so I like, even before this live, you had to take a quick nap and
So yeah, I'm here. He's here. Get him while you can. Join our Patreon help support us. Also, we have the Mark course that we just launched, which is the latest of courses. We have three courses out right now. And we're going over that last in just a moment.
You're going to refresh it again. Maybe subscribe to his YouTube channel. We're about to check that here in just a moment. The Mark course is the latest. Read Mark on Mark's terms with Dr. James D. Tabor. You cannot table.
You can't miss out on this. If you haven't, you really should because so often we read Mark and light of Matthew and Luke and John scratch that the ending on Mark ends with the women were afraid.
You need to take that if you want to come back.
Um, the women were afraid. It doesn't have a birth narrative. Jesus was not born of a virgin according to this gospel. So reading this as its own book is highly important. And that course, you can go sign up right now to give you a tease again for K the courses in high quality. He takes you in Mark and through it.
You walk away going, okay, I have never really read from beginning in, let's say the Gospel of Mark in this course. You will have done that now.
We've teased the course. We've mentioned, go subscribe and join. Check out our courses. We've got three of them out. Delcy Allison, Jr. in David Littwa, James D. Tabor.
Talk about the Patreon. I've got like 80 videos, maybe more. I'm like just throwing a number out there. So many that I need to edit and put on here with Dennis McDonald, Richard Carrier.
Um, I've got, dude, there's, there's stuff that I've done with others that I haven't finished.
Wow. So please help. And then you, we need to grow this thing because you're going to be releasing your Dead Sea Scroll series. It's not like you're asking for an arm and a leg.
I hope not. I don't think so. I mean, that's less than a Starbucks coffee for the big thing. Okay. And it is the most popular. So I'm going to join it. Anyway, um, here we are on his YouTube channel.
We're about to refresh this Joker, but you have the exact amount. So I have the exact amount. All right. So let's see how many subscribers we got.
There we go. Okay. So we started with 7,012 and now we have 7,047. That's 35. And guaranteed if you're watching this later and it's not live, subscribe.
Thank you. Yeah, this was fun.
I want you to have a final, final say to somebody like this fundamentalist in our chat named Digital Hammurabi.
Why should we trust Dr. Kepp?
Because I have a beard.
That's a good day, everyone.
That was a great reason. I think that's sufficient.
Wouldn't you say?
Yes.
And you know who doesn't have a beard?
This guy, whoever Josh, whoever he is, whatever, he doesn't have a beard.
No, he doesn't.
So your argument is if you start with having a beard is true, we're beard presuppositionalist, then if he doesn't have a beard, he's automatically wrong.
And there's no convincing anyone otherwise because you have a beard and it's true.
It's true. It's true. Man, we love you. Thank you, Dr. Josh, for that super chat.
I still haven't figured out the foundational presuppositional existential metaphysical foundation of all reality and where to go from there.
See, I knew he was going to mock us. Typical atheist canard.
Please stop bullying us. Okay. We're sick of it. We need to stand up for ourselves more, you know, we don't do this enough.
We need to stand up for ourselves.
Seriously, love you. Thank you. Go in the description, check them out, and don't miss this amazing intro-outro on the Dead Sea Scrolls with Kip Davis.
Thank you, everybody.
Back in Washington, Kip Davis is getting his first look at a final prized fragment in the Museum of the Bible's collection.
This is a fragment that contains text from Genesis chapter 32 and it's supposedly from the first century B.C. or the first century C.E.
This is a fragment from the first century B.C.
This is a fragment from the first century B.C.
This is a fragment from the first century B.C.
