We are
MithVision. Welcome back to MithVision Podcast. Dr. McDonald is joining again today. That's
Dr. Dennis R. McDonald for those of you who do not know. I honestly don't want to go too
long into his credentials, but let's just put it this way. He has a lot of credentials.
I could dive deep into this. He has a PhD at Harvard University. He has a lot of students
that I've been recently in contact with. I actually interviewed Michael Kaushenosh recently,
Dr. McDonald, and he was a student of yours, and he has a PhD, of course, Claremont Theological...
Hold on. Claremont School of Theology. Sorry. He said that he has learned so much from you,
and I said, well, it doesn't seem very pessimistic because you know, you've talked about the
difficulties with your teaching career in terms of students getting jobs. He said, well,
he's not as pessimistic about the potential of getting there. In fact, he thinks the skills
you've given him are going to pay off. It's just a difficult area to find jobs in regardless.
Yeah, it is. Yeah. So I guess Dr. McDonald, we did a part one to this show, and I have to say
I loved the feedback. Everyone who watched it, there was one naysayer goes, I don't see the
parallels. Get the book because if you really want to follow and go line for line, as I used to
say as a Christian, precept upon precept, line upon line, you really dive into the actual text
in this book. And through the whole Gospel of John, there's three layers to this, which we're
going to discuss that today, I suspect. And of course, I'll be probably reading from this book,
so you guys will get a little taste of it. I really recommend you read this book. Go down in the
description right now. If you have not gotten this book, try and get it on ebook. Obviously,
something more affordable if you can't afford the hard copy because I know I understand books are
costly, but it's well worth the read. In fact, there's information in here you will not find,
I repeat, you will not find anywhere else. That's just a bottom line matter of fact.
So Dr. McDonald, thank you so much for this book and the input and insight that you've been giving
us. I really look forward to seeing what you're going to bring today about the Johanna in Gospel
and unlocking more secrets that I would have never known if it weren't for you.
Thank you so much. Derek, thank you so much for having me back,
and you're such a gracious person, and I appreciate your introduction. Thank you.
I want to tell your viewers what we did last time, just to give them a little head start,
and then we'll get into what I consider to be the real meat of the issue of how the
Fourth Gospel interacts with Dainese religion, especially Euripides bakai. Last time we spend
most of our time not on the Gospel itself, but on its reception, and I talked about
known us of Panopolis, who wrote the longest Greek epic of all, the Dainesiaka, about Dainisus,
but earlier than that he had written an epic
inverse on the Fourth Gospel, a paraphrase of the Gospel of John,
and he clearly must have seen in the Gospel of John something that triggered his interest in
rewriting it with Dainese and overtones, and the two things he most likely saw were
the changing of water into wine, which occurs in John 2, and also the homophagia. Now one of your
respondents said homophagia means homophagia, that is the eating of humans, but that's wrong.
It comes from a Greek word, omus, which means raw, not the Latin homo, which means person or man,
and so it really is the eating of raw flesh, but I think known us may have seen that,
but even a pagan named Achilles Tatius in writing a Greek novel has Dainisus change water into wine
using imagery that apparently comes from the Fourth Gospel. It's quite an amazing
possibility, but Clement of Alexandria in the end of the second century and at sometime in the
12th century the author of Christus Padians used the prologue of the Gospel of John, compared
the prologue of the Gospel of John with the opening monologue in the Bacchae, and therefore
we have other evidence that spans a millennium of people who saw similarities between the Fourth
Gospel and the Bacchae. Now I didn't say this last time, but it's going to be important for us today
when I talk about the Dainisian Gospel, it may come as a surprise that I'm not talking about the
Gospel of John. I'm talking about the earliest stratum of the Gospel of John, and in order to
understand how the Gospel of John developed, I'm going to be speaking a little bit about those
technical issues, and then we'll get to how the earliest stratum of the Gospel of John, which I
call the Dainisian Gospel, engaged with Euripides Bacchae. Scholars for a long time have recognized
that unlike the Synoptic Gospels, the Gospel of John is the final result of a compositional history
that has at least three different moments, each one building on the other, apparently not deleting
things from the antecedent, but building on top of them, and the image that I like to use is that
of a Hopi Pueblo that has three different dwellings, an earlier adobe dwelling, then another one that's
built on top of it as the family expands, and then another one on top of it, and you can have as many
as six or seven different layers of dwellings. So what we have is at the base a document that
knows the Synoptic Gospels and is trying to supplement it, then that gets developed and
greatly expanded in second dwelling on top of it, which I'm going to be calling the anti-Jewish Gospel,
and then there's another layer on top of that, which I'm going to call the Beloved
Disciple Gospel, and it's the one that we have in the New Testament. Now people like Nonas and
Clement must have seen already in the canonical version of John these echoes of the Dainisian
tradition, but they all go back to this basic document. Now how do we know that we have these
three strata? It's one thing, and by the way, it's one thing to identify the problems in the text
that indicate that we've got the three strata, but it's another to reconstruct it, and another to
understand what's at stake in making those claims. Unfortunately, the three terms that scholars use
in order to tease out these various levels of composition are all in four languages. One is
in Greek, one is in German, and another is in French, and these are aparii, or disjunctive
expressions. Another is viteraufnama, that's a repetitive resumption of something. I'll explain
these in a moment, and the other is le re lecteur in French, which means rewriting, the rewriting
of something, which is similar to mimesis. Aparii are places where you're reading in the Gospel
of John, and all of a sudden you find something disjunctive, or another example, somebody asks
Jesus a question, and he doesn't answer the question very well. He goes off and does something
else, so you can see these disjunctions, and it's really kind of fun to go through the Gospel of
John looking for logical consistency and these corrections. So, for example, one of my favorite
examples is Jesus scolds the Jewish authorities, and my son says, Moses gave you circumcision,
and so on, and then somebody else comes, oh, but it wasn't Moses who gave them circumcision,
it was Abraham, because that actually is the correction, but both are standing right there
in the text. Jesus makes more disciples than John, oops, but Jesus himself didn't baptize,
only John baptized, and then you go on, so you get these Aparii, and they're all over the place.
They're like earlier corrections. Can I mind I kind of poke for a second? I think it's interesting
because just one example, and this is my ignorance speaking, but I think this would be something to
ask. A lot of my friends and one of them majorly that I'm thinking of says, why does Mark not have
the last verses in Mark 16, and you know the last verses of Mark are added on,
tacked on in verse 9 through 16. I apologize, it's not Mark 16. Mark 13, if I'm not mistaken?
No, 16. 16, sorry. So, they say, well, you can find that earlier stratum, if you will, in John,
but John being three layers, it looks like there might have been some earlier form or version of
John. I don't know where you stand on that, but that ultimately there seems to be a corrective
layer being added on top to kind of justify the previous thing that's being mentioned.
Does that have any relevancy to Mark's ending? Well, I'm going to divide your comments into two.
Your friend is entirely wrong. The Gospel of John from the very beginning knows the synoptics,
even in the earliest level, and so that's not going to help you with the Gospel of Mark,
but yes, you do have these corrective layers, one after the other, and you can see why
they get correction. They are corrections, and I'll talk more about that later, but you don't
have this synoptic phenomenon going on very often in the synoptic Gospels. So, those are aparii.
Let me talk about Vedar alphanama or resumptive repetitions. One of the characteristic things
rather maddening about the Gospel of John is how repetitive it is, and it's repetitive in a way
because an editor of an earlier document said something like, and Jesus said so and so,
and then there's an addition, and then you find a resumption, and Jesus said, which is entirely
unnecessary, and it bookends the material that's in the middle, so you can then isolate that material
in the middle and say that's got to come from a different place because you have this resumption
that happens later. One of the most interesting issues though is relecteur, and this has been
demonstrated by a Swiss scholar named Jean Zumstein, and it's been identified by others
that the Gospel of John is repetitive because a later hand rewrites an episode that's already been
there and expands on it, and we could give you some examples, but that's not as important as
a recognition that you have distinctive problems literally in the Gospel of John. You have
disjunctions, you have repetitive, resumptive duplications, and then you have the rewriting of
an episode from something earlier. Now the way that scholars have tried to then stratify these texts
has been largely theological. In some cases it's been literary. What vocabulary is most
characteristic, let's say, of the anti-Jewish stratum or whatever, but very few people have
used social identity theory as a way of teasing out the differences between these various levels,
and I want to go into the criteria, very simply the criteria or concerns of social identity,
which we use by the way with Q to establish the Q document, but they're even more valuable in my
view when it comes to the Gospel of John, and the most important three parts of it are these.
One is the characterization of the prototypical leader. In this case in the Gospels, of course,
it's Jesus. So instead of talking about Christology, a social scientist would talk about the
prototypical leader. The other is the stereotyping of outgroups, who are the enemies in a particular
text. Then the third part is the self-stereotyping of the ingroup. So who are we, and how are we
different from the outgroup, and how might there be tensions between the outgroup and the ingroup?
And the ingroup then has two different significant impulses. One is to model itself
after the prototypical leader. So the leader is the one who is the gives the identity to the group,
and the group members are to emulate the leader. The other is that the ingroup needs to be held
together by intimacy of some kind. So you have love language that's used of people or people
talking about each other as brother or sister, and also there's an expectation that people in
the ingroup will have certain commonalities in ethics, that is, there will be behavioral
conformity. And you can see how that works when we get to these Gospels. So you have in front,
I sent you a PDF reconstructing the Jehanim tradition, and I'd like to read some of that and then
comment on it as we go. And then when you we're done with the Dainese and Gospel part of it,
I want you to switch to the the file that says X as a model. Okay, I'm going to start with the
Elder John and the Jehanim Epistles. One popular or one common mistake that people make in Jehanim
scholarship is to assume that the John is the son of Zebedee, one of the twelve. He's not, he's the
John the Elder, and I want to talk about what we know about this character. From its inception
to its culmination in the beloved disciple gospel, that is three, the final canonical version.
This distinctive and fascinating early Christian movement was intimately associated with the Elder
John. Apparently a transplant from Galilee to Western Asia Minor, perhaps after the Jewish
war, that is in the 70s or 80s. And if so, he was one of many such believers from Galilee in the area,
among whom one might include the author of the visions in Revelation 19b to 227. The elder planted
churches in at least two locations that were sufficiently distant to require traveling informants
and exchanged letters, three of which we have in the New Testament, and they were written in
this order, 2nd John, 3rd John, and then later 1st John. Here the Elder, who's the prototypical leader,
calls members of the stereotypical in-group his children and friends, and encourages them to
esteem each other as loving brothers. He also insists on social conformity. That is, if you
love me or you love Jesus, you will obey the commandments. The stereotypical out-groups are
called the world, presumably unbelieving Gentiles, and former members of the in-group who had left it,
and in least one case, created a sism under a rival leader. In these epistles, one finds no
explicit denunciation of other Jews. Surely this group understood itself to be a Jewish sect.
This Elder John surely was the same Elder John known to Papias, who wrote around 110,
and to whom he attributed references to Mark's collection of logia about Jesus,
and two collections from inept translators of a hypothetical Hebrew book by Matthew.
Papias' silence about the Jehanim Gospel strongly suggests that it must have been written later.
In previous Myth, Vision, Episodes, I argued that the lost Greek translation of Matthew was
the Q, or the Logoi of Jesus. In any case, there should be little doubt that well before the
composition of the first stratum of the Fourth Gospel, Jehanim communities were familiar with
Mark and Matthew. Now, one reason that's important, Derek, is that the places where the Fourth Gospel
and the synoptics agree are frequently places where Mark is not dependent on historical memory
or other sources or traditions, but he's imitating the Homeric epics. So, for example,
I'm going to read places where we have parallels in the Gospel of John, all of them, by the way,
in this earlier stratum, the earliest stratum, that appear in the synoptics where Mark
got these stories by imitating the Homeric epics. Is this coming out of the, on the same page,
the Dionysian Gospel early stratum? No, it's not. Okay. I'll just read the list. Okay. The purging
aden of thieves, a feast for 5,000, walking on water, Peter's recognition of Jesus as the Messiah,
the anointing woman at Bethany, the triumphal entry, Peter's vow to die, Judas's betrayal at
Gethsemane, Peter's violation of his vow, the favoring of Barabbas to Jesus, Jesus's mockery,
mourning women and Joseph of Arimathea. All of those have Homeric antecedents.
They all appear in Mark and from Mark into the other Gossanoptics, and they all appear in the
Gospel of John. The earliest version of the Gospel of John, the Dionysian Gospel, did not want to
replace the other Gospels. It was, it knew the other Gospels, but it wanted to supplement them.
And he wanted to supplement them because he wanted to make Jesus of the Gospel tradition less
a bad neighbor who wanted you to mow the lawn and to shovel the walk, which is what we're doing
this February, but a Jesus who brings you cookies and coffee, that is one who gives gift after gift.
So now I want to talk a little about the Dionysian Gospel. The earliest radium of the Jehanine tradition
is what I have called the Dionysian Gospel. Derek, to illustrate this issue of social identity
in these three different layers of the Gospel of John, I'll talk most first about the Dionysian
Gospel, then the anti-Jewish Gospel, and then the beloved disciple Gospel. The Dionysian Gospel,
I've called it because, with that title, because it so extensively imitates Euripides Bacchai,
and I'll give some evidence of that in a moment. The social identity markers have
almost exclusively to do with the identity of Jesus as a new Dionysus, as a donor deity
who gives eternal life, living water, wine at a wedding, and so on. So this is the most important
social identity marker. The in-group are those who believe in Jesus, but they include a Samaritan
woman at the well, and they include some Pharisees who are attracted to his message and impressed
by his miracles. The out-group, as in the Synoptic Gospels, are Pharisees and chief priests,
but they don't play as large a role in the Dionysian Gospel as they do later.
The Dionysian Gospel then gets written by other people in a document that I'm calling
the Anti-Jewish Gospel. And the reason it becomes anti-Jewish is three times in the Gospel of John,
we are told that the Johanin believers have been kicked out of synagogues,
and this must have been extremely painful. So now for these authors, and they probably are a school
of people, the church if you will, is rewriting the Dionysian Gospel. And instead of having the
villains being Pharisees and chief priests, that is Jewish rulers and leaders, now it's the Jews
themselves. So the entire ethnos of the Jews is blamed for the death of Jesus and of prophets
and so the Jesus of the anti-Jewish Gospel says, you are of your father the devil,
and he was a murderer from the beginning, and you're doing the same thing. So you have this level
of hostility against the Jews, which is entirely absent in the Johanin Epistles and entirely absent
in the Dionysian Gospel. And instead of being written as a supplement to the synoptics, it's now
written as a rival to the synoptics in order to, so other pieces of the narrative are filled out
with material again from the synoptics, but it seems to be a rival. And it's, I must say,
mean-spirited. And the implications of the anti-Semitism in the Gospel of John cannot
be ignored in the history of Christian abuses of Jews and murder of Jews. And it's one of the great
lamentable aspects of the New Testament, this intermediary version of the Gospel of John,
and all of it apparently bled right into the final version. So for the social identity markers,
now Jesus no longer is the donor deity, he's the polemicist. He's arguing with the Jews, claiming
that before Abraham was, I am, that he's greater than Moses, that almost all of the biblical
citations happen in this stratum against the Jews. So the outgroup clearly is the Jews as a whole.
And it's a painful reaction to the painful exclusion of Johanin believers from the synagogue.
Now they see themselves on the outside. May I ask who the author of the second layer must be? Because
part of me wants to, you know, there's a couple different options that are floating in my head.
And one of them is, is that this is a Jew who is upset at the way he's being treated by Jews. The
other part of me thinks as late as this is in the game, and John is late, you have pagans that are
already participating like God fears at synagogues, potentially. And they're now being, hey, get out
of here, you're not welcome here. You're not a practicing Jew, whatever it might be. And they're
not even welcoming these pagans to the synagogues to hear the reading of scripture. So it makes me
wonder the social identity of the author of the second layer, because would a Jew, and I'm not
saying it's not possible. I've talked to a couple rabbis and Dr. Price and them, and we had a good
show not long ago where he said, well, there's Jews who hate the Jew in themselves, or they hate
Jews in general. And we've seen that in history. But what's the likeliness of the second layer
just being a pagan author that is trying to participate? If it's a pagan author, that author
had a PhD in the Septuagint. Okay, the author knows the Jewish Bible and uses the Jewish Bible
extensively in these polemics. But one can see already in the Dionysian Gospel, things that would
have encouraged an expulsion from the synagogue, Jesus saying, eat my flesh and drink my blood.
Or his openness to the Samaritan woman. So there are all kinds of things inside the
Johanin tradition that would get them kicked out of the synagogue, it seems to me.
You've got to, I have to ask, because you always get me excited, Dr. McDonald. You literally always
get me excited. Because I, John, and you write this in your book for anybody who hasn't got this
book. I'm telling you, you've got to get it because it goes deep in the sources and he shows it.
It's really, really clear. But the eat of my flesh drink of my blood. We have the hints of this
in the earlier synoptic gospels. Though John says it so loud and so clear, you can't doubt what he's
trying to say. It's so obviously non-Torah. It's like, hey, drink my blood, eat my flesh, chew my
flesh. Well, my question is, the Johanin community is obviously definitely having resentment towards
the Jews altogether. The other community, or the earlier communities, the synoptic gospels,
I'm looking at social identity. I love that you bring up social identity because it makes me kind
of ask questions about how this worked out. How do the earlier synoptic gospel communities fair
as far as that teaching goes? Would that, that's obviously not, an Orthodox Jew would look at that
and go, no, thank you. That's obviously against the law of Moses or whatnot. That teaching, how
that fair with the Jews, because I could see them getting persecuted by Jews in general or high
priests or fairs, these are trying to mock them. But you're saying that they probably were receiving
backlash for their teachings, but it really hit the fan when they were no longer welcome at synagogues?
Well, it's better documented with the Johanin tradition than in the synoptic tradition.
And we honestly do not know very much about how Jews would have responded to this. We do know
that there were accusations against Christians and Jews for being cannibalistic.
But many of those objections come from pagans and not from Jews versus Christians. But I want to go
back to the social identity, the anti-Jewish gospel, if I might. So we've talked about the
prototypical leader is Jesus the polemicist, the one who's better than Abraham and Moses and so on.
The outgroup clearly are the Jews themselves, because now the Johanin community feels itself
excluded. The in-group is really quite amazing. They are sometimes called friends. They are to be
unified with Jesus as Jesus is unified with God. And one might say that for the in-group community,
Jesus isn't a polemicist, but he's the friend. And he encourages, this is where you get,
that you will know that you are mine by loving each other. And if you love me, you will keep the
commandments. And in social identity theory, this is called emulation of the prototypical leader,
that is you identify with the leader, in this case Jesus, and intimacy of the group so that
you have very strong social bonding inside of the group and an expectation of ethical and behavioral
conformity. So that if you love me, you'll keep my commandments. And this goes on and on and on.
Now, there's also something else that's quite astonishing about this layer of the Gospel of
John, and this has to do with the so-called paraclete. Already the Elder John talks about
Jesus as a paraclete for an eschatological trial that is before God and the angels people are
going to be tried for with their fidelity to Jesus. And Jesus is going to be the advocate,
the attorney for the defense. He's going to be the paraclete for them. But then in the Fourth
Gospel, we find Jesus saying, I will send a paraclete for you, the Holy Spirit, and he will
instruct you in all things so that the Johani community thinks that it has a continued access
to the teaching of Jesus through the Holy Spirit, who is going to function as a paraclete and to
teach them other things. So frequently in the anti-Jewish Gospel, you get things like,
and the disciples heard this, but they didn't understand it until after the resurrection.
And so this was to fulfill the biblical prophecy or something like that. So the authors of, and I
think it's multiple authors of this second group, again, some kind of intellectual cadre of
Johanine believers, felt that they could rewrite the Gospel because they were authorized to do so
by the Spirit, by the paraclete. And it's a very interesting phenomenon that they had so much
freedom in rewriting the Dionysian Gospel and the synoptics to some extent, because they thought
they had direct access to Jesus through the paraclete or indirect access to Jesus through the paraclete.
Like some Christians today, actually, that come up with ideas or teachings, or let's put it this way,
even other splinter religions that have developed out of Christianity.
Mormonism. Mormonism is an open canon. Yep, I was just thinking about that,
and this is why a lot of Christians, Baptists especially, will say the gifts, miracles, all
that stuff, like that ended back then, no speaking in tongues, there's no prophesying,
there's no laying on of hands, because they don't want to run into this problem here.
This is a problem, because as soon as you say that there's an active ongoing application of the
paraclete in the membership of the church, you better get ready for the Gospel of Lambert,
because it's common, baby. No, but I think your comments allow you to understand how the
fourth Gospel then developed. It had a core document that got it in trouble, then you have
another document that's polemical, and this community thinks they have the right to speak
for Jesus, because Jesus told them they'd have a paraclete and would instruct them further.
Wow! And so you have an irony in this document, this anti-Jewish Gospel. On the one hand, we have
wonderful passages about loving each other, and about having conformity, and to be one with Jesus
is to be one with God, and the word Amenno in Greek, to abide and to be with Jesus in a kind of
genosis, a unification is really quite beautiful, and it has inspired many Christian mystics.
On the other hand, it is viciously anti-Semitic, and especially when it's ripped out of its
historical context and gets used by Christians in a supersessionist position, it becomes really
toxic and murderous. It's had a lethal history, and it's got to be named.
It's got to be named. Now, ironically, we have one more stage of the Johnine tradition,
and this is where we find the references to the Beloved Disciple, and the reader of these
Gospels would have known that the Beloved Disciple is not one of the twelve. He's John the Elder,
who founded the churches in Western Asia Minor, who claims to have been among the elders who had
seen and met Jesus, and he had an enormous influence on this community. The editor who wrote
the epilogue to the Gospel of John 21 also had a tinkered with the text throughout and added
passages related to the Beloved Disciple and a competition with Simon Peter, and in this case
it's ironic. It's a wonderfully liberal, if I could put it that way without being political
about it, a liberally-minded author. So, yes, this community loves the Beloved Disciple,
but it recognizes that most Christians are not going to be Johnine Christians. Jesus has
a sheep that are not of this flock, and in the epilogue Jesus hands over his flock to Peter
and says, yes, Peter, you will die a martyr, and even though Peter can never say he loves Jesus
with the word Agapao, his word is Vileo, to be a friend of Jesus, Jesus and the Beloved Disciples
have this intimate Agapao verb connection, and then the epilogue, the postscript to the epilogue
says, I suppose that if the heavens were a manuscript they would not contain all the things
that Jesus did. In other words, it acknowledges the existence and the value of other Gospels.
So now it's whereas the Dainesean Gospel wanted to supplement the synoptics,
and whereas the anti-Jewish Gospel wanted to rival them, the Beloved Disciple Gospel wants to
compliment and compliment them, both with an I and an E, that is to supplement them
alongside other Gospels, but we know that the witness of the Beloved Disciple is true.
So for us, this is the Gospel we like, but we know that there are other Gospels. The Beloved Disciple
is the person that our community likes, but we know that the flock is really
belonging now to Peter and the Petrine tradition. So now we have a much more generous overlay in
the Gospel of John. So now the prototypical leader is the risen Jesus, who then can transfer the
authority of the in-group to Peter as the new shepherd so that they may be one. The in-group
includes the 12, it includes, by the way the 12 are never mentioned earlier before chapter 20,
and only four of the disciples of the 12 are even named, and other people are disciples too,
Nicodemus for one. Joseph of Arimathea would be another one. You have women
followers that are important in John. So the prototypical leaders are Jesus and the Beloved
Disciple. The in-group are the 12 and people who are called the brothers, that is presumably
male authorities in the Johnian community, and there's nothing said at all about the out-group.
No longer do you have additional polemics against the Jews. You don't have any polemics against
the Pharisees. You don't have any polemics against the chief priests, and in fact it's likely that
the epilogue and the Beloved Disciple gospel was the beginning of a Johanian corpus that then
included 1st, 2nd, and 3rd John, and a version of the book of Revelation, so that in that case the
problems that are coming for the, that is the out-group, if that's the case, if we have a
Johnian corpus, would be in the Apocalypse of John the Roman Empire. It's no longer the Jews,
and in fact the author identifies with the synagogue, and it talks about other synagogues,
the synagogues of Satan, and also those who defect, who are neither hot nor cold, but lukewarm
in those epistles. Now there's a big debate about whether there was a Johanian corpus.
I think the evidence is quite convincing that that originally was, but it didn't last long.
But to summarize, we have three different social moments. In the Dainesean gospel,
Jesus is the donor deity, the new Dionysus. In the anti-Jewish gospel, he's the polemicist
against other Jews claiming that he's before Moses and Abraham and so on.
And in the final one, you have him as the generous risen one who's handing over authority
of the sheep to Peter. And you also have different out-groups or in-groups. The out-groups in the
first group have to do with Pharisees and chief priests who don't understand Jesus' signs.
In the second group, the out-group is all Jews, the Jews themselves.
That continues in the final version of the Gospel of John. That is, they still talk about the Jews
as the children of the devil, but it's much more generous in spirit. And so the out-group no longer
is targeted as the Jews, but seems to be moving toward the Roman Empire and to divisions inside
of the Jehanim tradition. It's a very interesting thing. So instead of talking about the prototypical
leader as Christology, the way Christian theology does, it makes much more sense to talk about
prototypical tradition. Instead of talking about ecclesiology, which is the way theologians want
to talk about in-groups, it's much better to talk about social identity in-group,
self-stereotyping. Instead of talking about Christian apologetics, about identifying
the truth over against other groups, it's much more satisfying to talk about it as social
stereotyping of the out-group, who are the victims. And by using these categories, we can read the
Gospel not only in stereo, but with a third track as well, so that we can then try to parcel out
one stratum from another by using social identity markers, which it's been a lot of fun to do.
And I have my own synopsis of the Gospel of John, which I call a synopsis of three
Jehanim Gospels that tries to identify these three stratum. And I find it to be an absolutely
amazing document. It both is wonderful and disgusting, and that makes it so much fun to study.
I think I'll stop with that and give you some examples of the Bacchari.
Yeah, no, I'm definitely down. Please continue. I definitely think there's something going on.
Real quick, are there others that see three layers to John, and it's more than just you that see
these three layers, but you just identify the layers differently? Or are you the only person
who actually identifies John in three different layers? Oh, heavens, no. I mean, this goes all
the way back famously to Rudolf Bultmann. And Bultmann attempted to tease this out,
but used theological categories. Right. And other people have recognized the various levels.
Another person named Erwin van Vaulde wrote a wonderful three-volume commentary on the Gospel
of John that is a commentary on three Gospels. And but it uses mostly theology and literary
identifications instead of social identity markers. And so for that reason, my reconstruction of the
Dainese Gospels and the Jewish Gospel are very different from his. But he wrote three massive
volumes of commentary on the Gospel of John doing this very thing. Now, most people now, though,
hold what I call a unitarian instead of an analytical view of the fourth Gospel.
Namely, it's too subjective to try to reconstruct these earlier levels. Yes, we can see the
operae and the resumptive repetitions in the re-elector. But it's too risky to try to reconstruct
what those layers are. It's enough to say that they're there. And that's very similar to the way
people treat Q. Many people may hold that, yes, there's a Q document, but will never be able to
reconstruct it. And this is a bit like Mark Goodacre, who's saying, I don't know if there's a Q or not,
but I do, I am very skeptical that anyone can reconstruct it. We have the same thing true in
the Gospel of John. People know that there are three layers, there may be more. But these are
three identical identifiable layers, and they have distinctive traits and people are willing to say
that. But they feel obligated to stay with the canonical version. Now, there's a theological
and a practical reason for doing that. Namely, the Christian Church does not value the Gospel of
John because it's got three layers. It values the Gospel of John as it is, because it's a canonical
book and it has sustained the Christian movement for two millennia. So almost all commentaries
that you read now will admit that there is a compositional history earlier than the final
version, but then will collapse. And they may say that there was a Jahanin corpus, but they collapse
into orthodoxy when it comes to the commentary itself, so that all of these stages merge into
each other. If I could put another, give you two images, I would say the fourth Gospel is a stew
that is very tasty, but it's got some rotten potatoes in it. But the stew is much more interesting
if you can separate the potatoes from the carrots, from the onion, and from the beef.
Another way to talk about it would be the Gospel of John is pasteurized milk. But pasteurized milk
cannot give you cheese or yogurt or butter. So I'm trying to unpasteurize the fourth Gospel,
so one can enjoy the cheese and the butter as well as the pasteurized milk.
And recognize that there is distinctions. It's not just one unified author who's supposedly
writing these things. That's what I like about it, and that's what I call textual criticism.
I mean, this is getting down into the text in a way where we can examine things and say,
why is that there? So that's why I really appreciate that. I didn't mean to take you off the
track some, but I think that's an important question. Thank you.
I wouldn't call it textual criticism, because in the guild, textual criticism means the
reconstruction of the Greek text. And so we're not doing that. And that's why I think a combination
of mimesis criticism and social identity criticism are kind of stepchildren to exegesis. So exegesis
in the past has been largely theological. I think we need to have more analytical
methodologies. And mimesis is one, and social identity criticism in a lot of other. And when
you combine them, you can tease out these layers in the Gospel of John with more accuracy.
By calling it real exegesis.
My students, when I taught exegesis, told me that Dennis, the way you use exegesis
means exit Jesus. That's a good one. I have another one too. And you know what theodicy is.
Theodicy is the justification of the righteousness of God, despite so much pain and harm in the world.
My students say Dennis doesn't talk about theodicy. He talks about theodicy.
Just one more. I remember giving a lecture on the historical Jesus one time.
A student came up to me and she said, Professor McDonald, you've taken away my Lord and I don't
know where you've laid him. So, and that's quoting from the end of the Gospel of John. So I suppose
it's appropriate. Oh, that's funny. Derek, I want to go back to the Dainesean Gospel and the Bacchai
because we've been doing so much with mimesis and mimesis criticism. So I'm going to leave the issues
of the stratification of the Gospel behind. So this is your opportunity to raise questions about
the anti-Jewish Gospel or the Beloved Disciple Gospel because I think I want to end with some
good examples of imitations of the Bacchai in the Beloved Disciple Gospel in the Dainesean Gospel.
So what do you want me to do? Well, if you have any more questions about the stratification.
Honestly, I recommend everybody to read the book, Dr. McDonald, because you go into
not only are you, you open up each text, you drive home what each part of each part of the text is
doing and where it lies within the layer. So I really request anyone who's reading, who likes to
read or is interested in really digging into this information. They really need to get in here. I mean,
the way that you structured this book too, you go into an introduction, going into the strat,
I'm going into the authorship. You do a little bit on Papias, which is interesting because I never
understood why that was important till we've had these shows. And you break down stuff. Like one
of my favorite areas is the idea of the eating on my flesh, drinking my blood. Like that's a
huge red flag. I mean, it's an elbow. It's huge. It's huge. So anyone reading it can really gather
the way that you've organized this book and see what's going on here. It's layered really well.
That's my only recommendation. I really don't have much to comment on there. I don't want to stop us
from getting any further in what we're trying to do. I'm sure we could do a million shows on this,
but they really need to get the book. Well, in fact, when I was preparing, I realized how much
more I would like to say. So, for example, it'd be wonderful to look at the Samaritan woman at the
well as a minad and compare to women in the Bacchai, or the raising of Lazarus as similar to the
escape of Dionysus from his prison, or Mary Magdalene and her asking where the body of Jesus is
with Agave at the end of the Bacchai asking where the body of her son is. But I think
it's going to be appropriate now to turn to some reading in the Dionysian Gospel book.
And we're going to focus on passages where Jesus is being interrogated either by Jewish
authorities or by Pilate. And these are imitations of Dionysuses being interrogated by Penteous
in the Bacchai. Now, all scholars will recognize, and one can see it immediately by looking at it
in Gospel parallel, that among the most unusual differences between the Fourth Gospel and the
Synoptics has to do with the Pilate trial. And there have been several dissertations written on
that, none of which I think have answered the major question, why we have so many parallels
with the Bacchai. So, we're going to do a little reading together, you and I, and I want you to
turn in the book to page 69. Okay. And do you see the block quotation in the middle of page 69
that begins 812? Yes, Jesus then spoke to them. Right. Now, here's what we're going to do. I'm going
to read everything but the voice of Jesus, and you're going to be Jesus. Congratulations, by the way.
Amen. Okay, so here we go. Ready? Okay. Jesus then spoke to them saying,
I am the light of the world. The Pharisees then said to him, you are giving testimony about yourself,
witness is not true. Jesus replied and said to them, you do not know where I came from or
where I am going. My judgment is true because I am not alone. I and the father who sent me,
or says with me, the father who sent me. And in your own law, it is written that the testimony
of two people is true. Then they were saying to him, where is your father? Jesus replied,
you know neither me nor the father. If you had known me, you also would have known my father.
Now, let's turn to page 70. And at the bottom of the page, you'll see parallels between the
Bacchai and the passage that you just read. Okay. I'll do the left-hand column and you'll do the
John column. Awesome. Penteas interrogates the priest God in disguise. The Pharisees interrogate
Jesus who claims to be the light of the world. Penteas asks from where, Pothon, the stranger
brought the new cult. The Pharisees do not know from where Jesus came. And the same word is used
in Greek, Pothon. Dionysus states that the sacred rites come from the son of Zeus. Jesus states that
he comes from his father. You do not know what life you live or what you are doing or what you are.
You do not know, same Greek word, where I came from. Dionysus says, even now he is near
and sees what I am suffering. But Penteas says, where is he? He's not visible to my eyes.
Dionysus, he's here with me because you are impious. You do not see him.
Jesus, I am not alone. I and with me the father who sent me. Pharisees, where is your father? Jesus,
you know neither me nor the father. If you had known me, you also would have known my father.
Penteas remains defiant and decides to kill the God by stoning or decapitation.
The Pharisees remain defiant and try to stone Jesus.
What do you think?
Yeah, I mean, it's clear. Something is up. And then you combine that. See, what I like about what you
do in your Mimesis, when you combine these things, it builds this case that in accord to law, John,
the author of this book would be guilty of obviously using the Euripides-Bakai and Dionysus
narrative for his literature. I don't know if anyone's really done this kind of investigation on
this level. And that's important. What you do is very, very important. So yeah, I think there's
something there. And then you know what adds the value, I suspect. I don't know Greek, Dr. McDonald
at all. I bet you there's a level at which there's a gratification or some type of satisfaction when
you run into these words and you see it and you're like, hold on, it's not just one word. It's almost
like even when you translate it into English, it has the same context. And so you've got words
that are identical with similar sounding context. How can you not say Mimesis? I mean,
that's very hard to deny, you know. I have only three addictions.
My children, my wife, and finding these nuggets, just as you said, I'm addicted to it. And I want
readers and viewers to be addicted to it too. And I haven't found it all. By the way, other people
have seen these parallels. They just haven't pursued it in a methodologically rigorous way,
or they find it atomistically. Oh, here's a cute one. Here's a nugget that's on the surface,
but they don't realize that nuggets are on the surface because there are mother loads
underneath the surface that you kept mine. And you have to have the right tools to do that. And
that's where I think Mimesis criticism and social identity criticism play a role.
Are we at the game? And what I'm trying to get at is I feel like what you're suggesting here is a
little head of the guild. The guild's got some catching up to do. Really, they got to go back
in time a little bit and reevaluate what's already been there. But my point is, this is,
how do we get the guild to see this and at least challenge it? Because when you're faced with
this, Dr. McDonald, it's like you can talk the talk and everybody can hang out and you can hang
out in your schoolyard and talk the talk. Dr. Airman's theory and this, this, that. And then
it's like, you're saying, look, put the gloves on, let's get in the ring. Let's talk Mimesis.
Let's, let's see how the battle goes out. Nobody's walking in the ring. It's like, yeah,
we all know we can beat that guy. We're not going into the ring with that guy. That's how I'm
looking at it. Like, why are they not critically trying to dissect what you are saying and deal
with this? Is this ring so true to my ears? I don't know why. Well, we, we talked in the previous
interview about why the guild is resistant and I understand why. And I do think I'm ahead of my
time. My optimism is not because my work is going to make a difference. What I think I've done is
I've made the jaw a jar and other people can walk through. And the reason I have that confidence
is I'm not making these parallels up. They're going to be there after I'm dead. And somebody else
is going to come and say, okay, McDonald was kooky, but he said something that's valuable here. And I
can't tell you how often I see people say that. Well, I don't agree with McDonald, but he really
makes a good point here or there or there so people can see pieces of it, but they don't see it
globally yet. There are two more texts I want to look at there before we're done that are doing the
same kind of thing. Then we can continue this discussion page 90.
All right.
This is the first of two passages in John where Jesus is before the before pilot,
where the author almost certainly is imitating from the Bacchai. So you read the left hand
I'll read the left hand column and you read the John column again. Okay.
Penteous. So first tell me who are your people? Pilot, your own people and the chief priest
delivered you to me. Dionysus. I am from here. Lydia is my country, but his true home is Mount
Olympus. Jesus, my kingdom is not from here. His true home is with the father. Dionysus,
the Dionysian mysteries are ineffable for the understanding of uninitiated mortals.
Jesus, for this reason I was born and came into the world to witness to the truth.
It is not permitted for you to hear them, but they are worth knowing.
Everyone who is of the truth hears my voice. The rites of the God are inimical to one who
exercises impiety. Pilot, what is truth? Now that what is truth question means that pilot
hasn't a clue about truth. Right. And so he's not allowed to hear the message of Jesus
because Jesus would just be wasting his time. Now what happens next is Jesus and only in the
Gospel of John is paraded wearing a crown of thorns and a purple cloak. Dionysus in iconography
is depicted wearing a crown of ivy and wearing a purple cloak called a Himmatian. And he brought
out into the public and he says, behold the monthropos, the human, the man. But the reader knows
Jesus is actually a God. He's the Logos. And so I'll read at the top of the page.
Pilot again went outside and said to them, look, I'm bringing him out to you so you may
know that I find no crime in him. Then Jesus went out wearing a thorny crown.
Remember Dionysus has a crown and a purple Himmatian and Pilate says, behold the man.
You know, Dr. McDonald, I never knew that about Dionysus connecting that to Jesus
because I was always told it was a mockery of Herod as king or some other explanation,
trying to mock being a king of the Jews that Herod wore purple or something.
Well, it is in the synoptics. This is already in Mark except he is not publicly displayed
this way. He is mocked by soldiers in private and then his clothes are put back on and then
he comes back out in the public. But in the Gospel of John, he is displayed publicly.
And I think the there's another passage here that I might as well read.
This is the Homeric hymn to Aphrodite to Dionysus.
I will speak of Dionysus, the radiant son of Semile, how he appeared at the shore of the Barren
Sea. Black and around his powerful shoulders, he wore a purple cloak. Come on, this is
Dionysian. It's purple. That's the color of wine. He wears an ivy crown.
And in the book on the couple of different pages, I give pictures of Dionysus looking
just like that. This is this is the video version of this is the visual
of the demonstration of Jesus and Dionysus. There you go. There's a Thursus with a Seder
and Dionysus is wearing a Himmatian and he's got an ivy wreath. Wow.
Okay, I think we have time for one more, baby. Okay, this is page 94.
I'm there. Okay, we're going to do the same thing.
Pentheus, from where did you bring these rites to Greece?
Pilate, from where do you come?
Pentheus, you say nothing so very well.
Jesus gave him no answer.
Pentheus, I'm more powerful than you to tie you up.
Pilate, will you not speak to me? Do you not know that I have authority to release you and
authority to crucify you? Dionysus, you do not know what life you live, what you are doing,
or who you are. Jesus, you have no authority over me whatsoever except what was given to you from
above. Dionysus, the God himself will free me whenever I want. God will free Jesus from death.
Pentheus shuts Dionysus in his granary, but he soon will escape his prison.
Pilate commands Jesus to be crucified, but he will soon escape his tomb.
Now, on the next page, I'm going to read something from another scholar.
Just so your viewers know that I'm not a smoke and weed, you know, that other people have seen
this, and this is from a person I don't know, John Stibba. In both of these trials, that is,
in the Bacchai and in the Gospel of John, the one on trial is an unacknowledged deity. Secondly,
in both cases, the interrogator is a ruling figure in the city where the deity should be worshiped.
Thirdly, in both cases, the one on trial is really the judge. Fourthly, in both interrogation scenes,
the deity proves extremely elusive so that the interrogator finds him hard to understand.
In both scenes, the deity uses language evasively. But then Stibba also
observes a significant difference. In the Bacchai, we are not allowed to entertain the notion that
Dionysus is in any danger for one moment. But in the Gospel, the interrogation issues in Jesus'
death. In other words, at the moment when Jesus' predicament seems most Dionysian,
his behavior becomes truly anti-Dionysian. The Dionysian paradigm is seemingly subverted.
That is, Jesus is not just like Dionysus, but he's also strategically different.
And better, right? Because Dionysus survives and he kills Pantheas.
In the Fourth Gospel, it's Jesus who dies. Now, this is only the tip of the iceberg of the places
where I've seen Dionysian influence in the Fourth Gospel, and they appear in the book you mentioned,
the Dionysian Gospel. So let me recap and is a way of closing the door.
The Dionysian Gospel is not the Gospel of John. The Gospel of John is the end result of
three compositional moments, the earliest of which is the Dionysian Gospel. Even so, the Dionysian
traits bleed through all of the layers in order to become visible to the likes of
known as the Panopolis and Clement of Alexandria. Unfortunately, those two later layers have obscured
the density of Dionysian traits in the Fourth Gospel. They become much more visible when one can
strip away from our Pueblo, the most recent dwelling, and then the intermediate dwelling.
And what we have left is, oh my God, we've got a Christian Bacchai.
Right. And so that, I think, is the major contribution of this kind of research in the
Fourth Gospel. Dr. McDonald, I can't wait to hear what people have to say about this show and to
give us their insight, seeing it with fresh eyes and letting us know what they think. Because I
would love to do a follow-up show where we actually can go live and have questions from the audience
ask them. Wouldn't that be wonderful? I would really, I think you'd appreciate it more than anything
because there's something about you, and I don't know if our audience has copped this yet, but I
know from our dialogues in interviewing you as well as off of the air when we talk, you really
want to educate people, you really want them to test this themselves, and you really want to,
you know, make a change in this. And I think to give credit to the guild, I can understand why
they don't see what you see because you're very highly critical in what I mean is you're examining
this stuff and you're able to peel away the layers and see what's going on beneath. And I don't know
if many of those who are studying this are coming at this with that kind of, they're not put in
let me let me do this to give more added effect here. They're not putting the shades on and looking
for that thing. They're more caught up in, okay, how is this borrowing from the Hebrew Bible?
How is this in Jewish tradition? And the common discussion is, you know, finding
ecumenical connections between Judaism and Christianity, and that's like the major player.
They do a lot of that with Paul too, the apostle Paul constantly look for Paul within Judaism. And
there's so much going on with that school of thought that not many people are spending time
wondering how is there any pagan influence within the New Testament? So I would like to do a live
with you going over, you know, anything anyone has a question of, of course, that will be more
interactive. Who knows, it might be a couple of lives that we have to do because there's just so
many questions. But well, I appreciate that. And I would welcome it. I'll tell you why I welcome it.
I have my own blinders. And I have my own glasses. And I'm not arguing that I'm more objective
than others. What I'm saying is, I'm like the beggar who has found some fresh bread,
and I want to share it. So it's not that I want to distribute it because I get credit
for distributing it. Yeah, I want people to get nourishment from the same bread that I do.
And by having a live response back and forth, I get to learn where my blinders are, where my
glasses are tinted, and where I can refine my arguments, because then it helps me enjoy the
bread more too. Yeah. So yeah, I hope we can do that. Okay, that sounds great. And as far as the
show went, we can always get into discussions. The one thing I would like to ask you would be,
and this is the only question I have right now, this I'm going to save questions for our audience
mainly, I want them to enjoy in the bread, you got to share your bread with them. So
not just with me. But when we talked about the Holy Spirit, as you called it, the helper,
these people were coming up with a way of adding this gospel because they were learning directly
from the Paraclete. And so now they're coming up with their own inspired versions of things,
kind of like Paul probably did. Paul had his own little Paraclete situation, I think, and Paul
goes to the Gentiles. He has this completely new thing that seems like it might have been different
from the previous people in the movement. This Paraclete concept, playing into the
authorship of gospels, is there a reason why this was the last gospel accepted canonically?
I mean, I guess what I'm getting at is we don't have other gospels like this or like the synoptics
and similar to John that are close to being accepted into the canon or were there continuous
gospels coming because people had a Paraclete concept and they were still adding things that
they thought they were connecting to God. And here we have the gospel of Barnabas, we have the
gospel of this, we have the gospel of that. What's going on with that? If you don't mind just commenting
on the Paraclete concept and all these added gospels. I don't think the process of canonization
should be understood primarily as a theological project in an attempt to have consistency.
It's the result of political and social distinctions. And remember the canonical gospels,
the gospel of John that we have now, entertains the possibility that there are other gospels around
and this community likes this one, but other communities are going to prefer others.
The author is saying, we brothers know that the witness of the beloved disciple is true,
but we also acknowledge that Peter was a martyr and that Jesus transferred his church to Simon
Peter and not to the beloved disciple. So that there's already a sociological openness.
And I think the canonical process has to do with honoring the various communities that comprised
what became orthodoxy and to meld them into a book that gives Jesus in stereo
and not the lactations deotessoron. So I don't think the issue is conformity of the fourth gospel
to the other gospels. I think it's the desired homogeneity of the burgeoning Christian movement
in making decisions politically about documents that are going to represent the various constituencies
of early Christianity. Well said, ladies and gentlemen, you got to get the book. I mean,
dead serious. This book is wonderful. He spends quite a bit of time going through the stratum
of the Euripides bar guy connecting it to the Johannine original stratum. And you really,
really need to look at these parallels yourself to see some might seem more strengthened and have
more of a bolder, memetic connection where it's like, come on, guys, that's a fingerprint. Okay,
that's a fingerprint. Other places you might go, that's a quarter of a fingerprint. It matches
certain lines, but you got to fill in the blanks to kind of have a little bit of an imagination
to understand how those things connect. And that doesn't mean that it's not a memetic connection.
I really, I think what happens in apologetics is people all too often expect in order for you to,
and I don't know why they do this now that I've studied more, in order for you to just show that
this book is using these other books and all these things, you need to have a Xerox of the text and
show me where it's literally Xeroxed to disprove your point. You don't need a Xerox. In fact,
once you see what Dr. McDonald is presenting, the Xerox isn't necessary. In fact, it's, it would be
almost impossible to find a Xerox when you know what the author is trying to do with the text.
If he was just trying to copy Dionysus theoripides Bacchae, he'd have just copied it. He didn't
necessarily want to copy it. He wanted to be better and compete with it. And I think the same idea
happens when you see Genesis using Mesopotamian literature as a cop batting against the ideas
of the Mesopotamian euguritic text and the different various surrounding cultures.
But I mean, this is a different time and a different place, but either way,
I just cannot get over this. I could see Christians seeing this if they're liberal.
I could see Christians saying, you know what? I still love this. I think there's something great
here. Even though I find myself not being a Christian, I don't see why this would be,
well, I could see why this would be a problem for any fundamentalists for sure, you know,
but a Christian can find beauty in this even, you know.
Do I, I hope I never give the impression that I do not love these texts.
I love these texts as much as anybody does, but I have a critical way of trying to understand them.
But let me end with this image if I might, Derek. I used to live in Denver and we would look out of
the front range and we could see Longspeak, we could see Pikes Peak, we could see Mount Evans,
and we knew there was a mountain range there.
Now, behind that then are other peaks that you can't be sure that they really are there and
they kind of blend in the horizon and are those clouds or are they real peaks?
But the very fact that you know that there's a mountain range there gives you reason to suspect
that maybe those peaks really are mountains.
What I'm hoping to sow in this book, in the ones where you have very good evidence,
like the ones we looked at, yes, there is a mountain range called the Bacchai
that is informing the Fourth Gospel in some way.
Now, some of the examples are going to be weak. They blend into the horizon and they are capable
of multiple interpretations. But it's really irresponsible to say that there's no mountain range.
I think that's wonderful, ladies and gentlemen. What do you think? And I know you can't wait to
see it alive. So if you've made it this far into the video, go down in the description, you guys.
Get the book. Make sure you guys get some of this material. Share the information out there.
Share this video. I really want to get more people acquainted with what he's doing in memetic
criticism and, of course, getting familiar with the works of Dr. McDonald and everything
he's brought to the table. I really appreciate you joining me, Dr. McDonald. Let's do this again.
And never, ever, ever forget, ladies and gentlemen. You guys, I do have merch. If you want to go to
heaven and you want a direct path, you don't want to have to go to purgatory. You don't want to have
to go see Tantalus or the rich man either way. It's the same guy. Make sure you guys get the
merch. I've got some new stuff. These are my kids, by the way. I got a future myth visionaries
on my shirt, boys. So those are my boys and you guys, we are myth vision. Myth vision.
