Religion, which before 628 was confined to a small group of immigrants in Medina, conquered the world.
So I think the secret is in the Quran.
And finally it's been staring us in the face for all these years.
But no one has noticed.
We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
I'm your host, Derek Lambert, special treat today on dealing with the time period where Heraclius, the emperor of the Romans, if you will, at the time, in Constantinople,
and the origins of, if we could, Islam and the Persian War that's going on between Constantinople, the Romans, and the Persians.
We're going to dive deep today.
Today I have Dr. James Howard Johnson.
He doesn't really need an introduction, but we're going to give him one because you've never seen him here before.
James Howard Johnson is emeritus fellow at the Corpus Christi College, Oxford and University Lectured Byzantine Studies.
His research interests include the history of East Rome Byzantium between 500 to 1100 AD.
East Roman Byzantine historiography, institutional history, and the history of international relations and diplomacy in late antiquity and the Middle Ages.
I went for the brief one, my friend.
Can I call you James during our episode?
Please do, please do.
By the way, I'm a quarter American, so I'm very, very willing to be called.
My grandfather, my father's father was American from New Hampshire.
Fortuna Civil War.
Wow.
North side, he was a drummer boy.
That's amazing.
Made a fortune in South America, retired to Europe.
What?
This is wild.
Okay, so you literally are history.
You're not just telling us history.
Your family has some deep roots in historical situation here that you could trace back.
So if you don't mind, I want to introduce you and get into this topic because I think this is important.
Can you tell us a little bit about your background and what you specialize in?
And while you do that, I'm going to show some of your books and give little plugs for anybody who's interested in helping us out here.
Oh Lord, you want me to talk about my background?
Well, a sort of typical English-Scottish background and educated privately, went as an undergraduate to Christchurch, one of the largest colleges at Oxford in 1960.
Finished my first degree, which was in classics in 1964.
And then primarily out of nervousness of going out into the world, having led a very secluded existence until that point, I stayed on to do research.
And I chose to do it in a field where my knowledge of the Greek and Latin languages and of ancient history would be of use.
But the continuation of it into the early Middle Ages, where much less research had been done.
So my life has been remarkably uneventful.
I moved in 1971 from my undergraduate and graduate college of Christchurch to Corpus Christi College, as you've already said.
And this was a move of zero millimeters from one adjacent college to the other adjacent college.
So that you could say is a life in which no progress whatsoever has been made.
But in fact, when I did that move, I immediately began to feel rather claustrophobic in Corpus, which is rather a small college.
And at that stage, I immediately stood, well, I was adopted as a candidate for an election in the City Council and later the County Council.
So for some 15 years, I was involved in local politics.
And those are 15 years in which I published very little, but in which I learned a great deal about the wider world.
My division I represented the political parties and the way they operated and the local authorities.
And so that's about it in a nutshell, zero millimeters progress, but a plent of experience outside.
And of course, every long vacation, every summer, I would go traveling in countries which featured in my research.
Well, I've enjoyed quite a few of your talks already as I've searched the Internet to find.
And of course, the books that I showed go down in the description, the last great war of antiquity.
You're going to really enjoy this one today, ladies and gentlemen, also consider helping us out on the Patreon.
I am producing stuff nobody else is nobody's done interviews with Paula Fredrickson.
I mean, you can go find her on like a news station or doing a lecture at a college.
But as far as a journalist like myself, going and sitting at the feet of someone like Paula Fredrickson and other academics,
I have content you can't find out there, help support us.
We also have courses in the description with M. David Littwell in Ancient Greek Mystery Colts and Bart Ehrman dealing with the Gospels or finding Moses.
We're going into all sorts of stuff.
So please help us out in the description.
All right, let's dive in if that's okay with you, James.
I want to ask you, you published many books.
And today we're going to be talking about the backstory of Islam, namely the Persian Roman War, which happened between 602 to 628.
But before we do, can you tell us a little bit about the other book you published, Witness to a World Crisis?
I noticed in that book, too, just tell us about the book.
But also I noticed on the front cover, I've asked this question of Dr. Hoylund before is I said, you know, especially listening to you talk about Heraclius,
and we're going to get into some interesting things like martyrdom and stuff that I think is going to be fun.
But these coins, one on the left, I think that is Heraclius, correct?
Yeah.
The one on the right, though, is a mystery.
I've been told this could be one of the caliphs, but this could be Muhammad, I've even been told.
It could be, but I think it's virtually certain that it is, I mean, it's the formidable figure of a standing caliph that they're known as the standing caliph coins.
And you have to remember that this is an Islamic coin that dates, so a religion in which, in theory, the human figure is banned.
But it's an early coin, a sort of threatening coin, issued, I think, in the six nineties, when things are hotting up.
So what's this book about briefly and will continue?
Well, its origin was that I started writing about all the sources, written at the time, and then a generation or two later, and then much later,
from which one could begin to piece together the last great war of antiquity.
But then I realized it had got so long that it better be published independently.
And then it seemed to me to be rather silly to have done all this work to produce the sources about the last great war of antiquity when they also deal with the origins of Islam.
So basically it turned into a systematic analysis of all the primary material of real value that covers the seventh century,
when the whole structure of the world in the Middle East changed with the rise of Islam.
So it's basically, I'm continuing, Robert Highland started on this sort of work in his first book, seeing Islam as others saw it.
This was basically a more, I can't say more comprehensive, but a more focused study of the key sources to which I then added a few chapters of reconstruction of the history of the seventh century.
So basically it's a sort of loving encounter on my part with all sorts of sources, beginning with one of the great poets of all time,
George of Pisidia, who lived and wrote during the last great war of antiquity.
So between 600 and 630 and on into the 630s, a great, great poet, sort of worthy in terms of language at least to be placed alongside Shakespeare.
Wow. This is a wonderful topic.
I didn't realize how amazing this this topic would be until I started venturing into it, realizing the implications of it.
So if I may, before we talk about these two superpowers, the Byzantine Empire and the Sasanian Empire, there was a plague that hit the region before these two went to war called the Justinian plague.
Can you tell us more about this plague? When did it start? How far did it reach and when did it end?
While you do that, I'll show a visual of the plague.
Oh, dear. The plague probably originated in the interior of East Africa.
It reached the Mediterranean at Pelusium, so it's on the easternmost branch of the Nile in autumn 541.
The Mediterranean was, of course, crisscrossed by merchant shipping, the shipping of all sorts.
So it then moved swiftly north up the coast of the Middle East to Asia Minor.
It reached Constantinople in spring 542.
It spread west along the North African coast, it reached Italy, France.
We know from corpses that have been dug up and where the DNA has been analyzed that victims of plague were found as far away as Bavaria, so deep into the European continent.
And Cambridge in England, but references in text tell us that it got as far as Ireland.
So basically, it is a real pandemic, but oddly, it's a pandemic that when it got to land didn't move that fast.
So in fact, we know from Gregory of Torre, who's a great historian of the Franks in the 6th century,
he reports that a bishop of Clermont-Ferrand, which is right in the center of France in the Massif Central,
had a vision in which he was told that he wouldn't live to see the plague come to Clermont-Ferrand.
And he lived for eight years, and the plague had reached Arles in the south of France,
and it took eight years to get to Clermont-Ferrand. So it's nothing like the Black Death.
And the reason, I think, is that whereas the Black Death was a plague which became mnemonic,
I mean, it turned into pneumonia and became very, very infectious.
I think there is no indication that this first plague, which was bubonic, bubonic,
but it spread through much closer contact.
So in fact, though the death toll was high, particularly before people learnt basically to stay indoors
or if they were living in the country, not to go to a town, it had nothing like the death toll of the Black Death.
So it was a serious demographic shock.
But at the time, the two empires, which we've been talking about, were at war with each other,
and there's a slight stuttering of the Roman effort, war effort, in 542,
and there's a slight stuttering of the Persian war effort a year later when the plague reached them in 543.
But basically, they continue at it, hammer and tongs.
Wow.
The plague didn't, you know, it wasn't something that changed the whole outlook of humanity at the time
in the way that I believe the Black Death did.
Interesting, really interesting.
And I think leading up to this, we'll talk about the two superpowers now, the Byzantine Empire and the Sasanian Empire.
If we could start with the Byzantine Empire, here's a map just to give everybody an idea of what it looks like.
And if you don't mind, with its capital being Constantinople, and here we have the famous church,
which was built in the capital, you could see on the map here.
I'm going to show you this church real quick in this video.
This is the Hagia Sophia.
It is indeed.
And of course, this ends up eventually getting conquered by Islam.
And you can actually view the inside.
You'll see a lot of iconography from Muslim background.
So to give people an idea, that is the Hagia Sophia that was in Constantinople at this period.
I just want to give people visuals.
Can you tell us a little bit about the history of the Byzantine Empire?
When was it formed?
How long did it last for and who was the emperor during the time of Muhammad?
Right.
Now, I'm afraid the first, I've got to be boring, is just, you did refer to it earlier as the Roman Empire.
You're now referring to it as the Byzantine Empire.
Now, of course, it's both.
Basically, the Byzantine Empire is what some scholars call the Roman Empire once it was Christianized
at the time of Constantinople, the great, so the early 4th century.
I'm afraid that I attend not to use that designation then, because it's still the Roman Empire.
You know, at the beginning of the 4th century, it's extending over, there was a western half,
which wasn't shown on the map.
What you showed on the map is the Roman Empire, as I call the East Roman Empire,
in, yes, the mid 6th century in the reign of Justinian,
when it has a Justinian gauge in campaigns of conquest, first in North Africa,
then Sicily, then Italy, and then acquired an enclave in southern Spain.
Now, I call it the Roman Empire, and I tend to, I introduce,
Byzantium is entirely, Byzantine is an entirely artificial term.
It's introduced basically to Markov, something later, from something earlier.
They themselves always refer to themselves as Romans.
And in fact, the Arab world and the Turkish world continue to refer to them as Rum.
So, but for convenience, I put the divide in the 640s.
Basically, I put it in a specific year, which is completely absurd, the year 644.
Why? Because that was the year in which the Arabs having occupied Egypt,
I mean, the Romans basically agreed to withdraw and did so.
I think it's by November, the agreement was they should be all be gone,
all the authorities, all the troops, by November 643.
Now, a year later, the Arab authorities had dredged the canal,
linking the Nile to the head of the Red Sea.
And in autumn 644, the first huge grain convoy from Egypt.
Now, grain convoys had traditionally gone to Constantinople.
The first grain convoy arrived at Jeddah, the port for Mecca and Medina.
So I see that as a crucial moment in which the economic as well as the political centre of gravity
has moved east from the Mediterranean towards, well, basically inland in the Middle East.
It'll end up in Iraq a century on.
So the economic centre of gravity moves east and eventually ends up in Iran.
Iran where you have a whole series of urban flourishing in the 9th and 10th centuries.
It becomes a sort of economic powerhouse along with Iraq of the western world.
So basically the Roman Empire is the Roman Empire, which you showed of Justinian,
which had been somewhat truncated by the early 7th century.
The Byzantines had been driven out of much of Italy.
They still control the area around Ravenna and the area around Rome and further south,
but lost control of the Po Valley and Tuscany.
And they controlled North Africa.
They were suffering a lot in the Balkans.
They were at war in the east with the Persians.
And so just on the, I know there was multiple questions in that one question.
Just can we get into the emperor of the time?
Muhammad is on the scene and to give a couple coin images to tease people
so they understand which emperor we're talking about here.
Can you tell us about this emperor?
Yes, Heraclius.
Heraclius was the son of another Heraclius who'd been a successful general,
not one of the greatest generals of the late 6th century,
but a successful general.
And in the early 7th century, he'd been appointed Exarch,
governor with military powers of North Africa.
And Heraclius was a son.
And at the same time there,
no, and Heraclius had a cousin, Gregory.
I think Gregory's father was also called Gregory.
And anyway, they are all involved during the reign of the emperor Focas,
who reigned from 602 to 610.
They are involved in stirring up opposition to the regime,
which was becoming more and more unpopular in Constantinople,
where the Senate, the Senate still existed,
the Senate of the Roman Republic still existed.
And the 7th century is one of the periods when it assumes actual power,
as well as sort of symbolic importance.
And basically senators in Constantinople and these dissidents in North Africa
get in touch with each other.
And then a rebellion gathers way,
which begins to turn into something like a very serious political revolution
in the empire.
It gathers way between 608 and 610,
when Heraclius arrived in a fleet at Constantinople,
penetrated into the walls, caught Focas,
executed and took power.
And he remained in power until his death in 641.
So Heraclius' time in power, I mean, the first 22 years,
coincide with Mohamed's preaching.
He was at Mecca from 610 to 622,
and then at Medina until his death in 632.
Thank you so much. I really appreciate that, James.
So we've kind of covered him and we're going to get into him more, I'm sure.
Now let's have a look at the other superpower, the Sasanian Empire.
Here's a map of what it looks like for our audience
to kind of be able to follow along and see,
get a visual aid of what it may have been on a map,
what would have been covered by this power,
with its capital being, and I'm going to probably butcher this,
but is it Ctesiphon? Am I correct in pronunciation?
Yeah, well, like Ctesiphon, I would say. Ctesiphon.
Okay, Ctesiphon, let me just show everybody.
Here we have a famous palace built in its capital, Ctesiphon.
And this is the remains that are still around today.
You could tell it's beautiful architecture.
Here's kind of what it would have looked like in the time
before it's destroyed and became a ruin.
I really enjoy these pictures to give people an idea
like what we're looking at.
Can you tell us a little bit about the history of the Sasanian Empire?
When was it formed? How long did it last for?
And who was the emperor during the time of Muhammad?
Right, right.
The Sasanian Empire was formed in a great,
well, it's a successor to a Parthian Empire,
which was the successor to the Hellenistic rulers
who had been established by Alexander the Great,
who destroyed the original Persian Empire.
Now, the Parthian Empire was relatively loosely organized.
And in the early third century,
the local Persians in Persia proper,
so it's far as it's in the south, it's in the southwest,
and the Zagros Mountains,
the original heartland of Persia.
If I had a pointer, I would point to it.
Basically, it's well to the southwest,
not the extreme southwest beyond the Gulf of Hormuz,
because... forgive me.
Would it be like kind of under the words
Sasanian Empire somewhere in the blue there?
Basically, you go down and to the left,
but inland from the Straits of Hormuz.
The far southeast is desiccated country.
That's where the hostage rescue went wrong
in President Carter's time.
It's the hot lands close to Afghanistan.
Now, the rebellion, a local rebellion started there,
and then it's a classic case of the dynamic expansion of power,
each success bringing the leading rebel, Ardashir,
more supporters,
and making it more likely there would be another,
so it's a virtuous cycle in which he,
stage by stage, imposes his authority
over the whole Iranian uplands.
And then in the 320s,
it's about the 326, I think,
they take over the old Parthian capital
in what's now Iraq, in Mesopotamia.
And that's the point at which,
so the Sasanians basically were a new dynasty.
And what year is this? Just so our audience is following you.
Now, you see, you're pressing me too hard.
There is a certain amount of debate about the precise date.
And I think I'm going to say 326.
But it's thereabouts.
It's in the 320s.
And what you have is a new regime,
which is more...
Well, it's more militarized.
It's more centralized.
It's basically geared to exploiting
the enormous wealth of Mesopotamia, modern Iraq,
to support basically the political and military plans
of the Iranian aristocracy, of the Iranian highlands.
And so over the next century or so,
a series of wars were fought on all fronts,
but notably with the Romans in the mid-3rd century,
in which the Sasanians were remarkably successful.
This is in the reign of Ardashir's son,
Shapur, the first.
And his most striking campaigns,
where he goes through much of the Eastern Roman Empire,
were, I mean, in the Middle East proper,
took place in the 350s.
Now, if there's any Sasanian experts watching this,
they're going to slit my throat,
because the vagueness on the dates...
Of course, I haven't re-briefed myself before this session,
but I'm giving you the main shape of it.
And the last of the early Roman Persian wars
ended in the middle 4th century.
This was a war that the Romans...
Basically, the Romans started at the very end of the reign
of Constantine the Great,
and it carries on into the 360s,
and it ends with the disastrous invasion
of Persia by the emperor Julian,
which ended in his...
Well, in defeat, his death,
and a pretty desperate withdrawal of the Roman forces.
And from that date for about the next 120 years,
there's a period of coexistence.
And then war starts again in the 6th century.
Now, but do you want to know something about the Sasanian Empire?
Well, I've said it's militarized.
It's centralized.
It could probably put out into the field armies of the...
Sorry about this ringing.
You're fine. You're fine.
I shall silence it.
Armies of the same size as the Romans.
You know, there are tremendous fortifications
on military camps.
It's a powerful, well-organized state
with an entirely independent culture.
If I may, just to draw a few caveats to give your answers to
as we're leading into the emperor
during the time of Muhammad in the Sasanian Empire.
Two things. I've heard the Sasanians,
or let's just say the modern Parthians,
or however you want to put it, this new regime,
they've captured one of the Romans,
Roman emperors, I'm sorry.
So it's a very important defeat.
And in one of them, they had hostaged one of them.
So that was a real good military tactic there.
Are they also kind of flying...
While they're an empire that may have various thoughts,
even Christians may be part of this empire,
are they kind of flying under the flag of a Huramasta?
Are they Zoroastrians at the top?
Very, very good question.
It took me a long, long while, I think, really to appreciate
that there was a fundamental difference
between the two empires.
In the Roman Empire,
emperors and churchmen
wanted people to agree,
both on doctrine and on right ritual.
And it resulted in terrible, you know, in conflicts of all sorts,
which were carrying on through the 6th century
and into the 7th century at the time of the last great war.
And by the way, it's one of the criticisms of Muslims,
of Will of Muhammad,
that Christians were at each other's throats about doctrine.
Now, we go to Iran, to this Asanian empire,
and yes, there was an official religion, which was Zoroastrian.
So an Ahura Mazda, the supreme power on the side of good.
But there probably were several strands within Zoroastrianism,
which coexisted.
But also, there were other religions,
very well established within the Asanian empire.
A huge Jewish community in Mesopotamia,
of the Babylonian Jewish community,
responsible for the Babylonian Talmud.
So a huge collection of material on practice and belief.
And also large Christian communities,
of two denominations,
Diophysites, that is Christians,
who were inclined to stress both the humanity
and the divinity of Christ,
without insisting on the really close union,
and Miaphysites,
who were really insisting on the close union.
Now, they are against each other,
and they're also against the Calcedonians of the Roman Empire.
So you've got, basically,
you've got that they are Diophysites,
or commonly known as Nestorians,
where they are strong in Mesopotamia,
where the Jews are strong,
and the Miaphysites are particularly strong in Armenia.
But then, as well as them,
there are Buddhists in the far northeast.
Manichaeans as well, right?
Yes, indeed.
The Manichaeans were persecuted.
But these others are, basically,
it's rather an admirable, tolerant regime.
I like that.
Maybe we can learn from this in history.
We really could.
I love this.
So, just to get to the actual emperor
during the time of Muhammad,
who's this guy?
All right.
Well, this guy is Kuzro,
Kuzro II,
grandson of Kuzro I,
who was the great Shah and Shah
at the time of Justinian.
Kuzro II,
basically, succeeded to the throne
when his father, Hormizd,
was overthrown and executed.
But the rebel who had brought about
the overthrow of his father
and his execution
was, basically, threatening Ctesiphon.
So, the young Kuzro fled to the Romans
to seek asylum there and to get help.
The age of him is,
it's quite hard to gauge his age
when that happens,
but there's an Armenian source
that refers to him as a manuk.
This means a sort of,
well, it basically means a young adult.
I mean, it could mean a boy or an adolescent.
My guess is he's not much more than 12 or 13
and he's very much the creature
of two powerful uncles.
So, what happens then is that,
in 591, Roman help is produced.
Two armies, with a lot of Persians involved,
invade.
The user per barra is overthrown and killed
and Kuzro is installed on his thrones.
He's very much indebted
to the Roman emperor of the time,
called Morris.
He has to face all sorts of problems
in his first 10 years,
particularly from these very powerful uncles,
but everything is reasonably calm
when we come into the 7th century
and he gets the news that his benefactor, Morris,
has been overthrown and killed
by the emperor Focast,
whom I referred before,
and this then provides him with a pretext to go to war.
And he lives on until 628.
He was executed on the 28th of February, 628.
I know I've been sloppy about days earlier on,
but I can get more precise now.
Yeah, and no, we're getting to the hotspot.
So, now I would like to move on to the war between these two
and there were many highlights.
The Persians and Jews forming an alliance,
the Persians capturing Jerusalem,
taking the True Cross,
Heraclius leading the fight back
and rallying his troops to martyrdom.
Heraclius not only regaining all of the lost territory,
but the True Cross as well,
which he brought back to Jerusalem on the 21st of March, 630 AD,
and many more highlights.
Let's begin with what led up to the war,
if you don't mind.
I know there's a lot between what you just said
and what I just said.
There's so much.
We could spend multiple episodes
diving into this material,
but I'm kind of doing a drive-by
because our time is limited.
If you don't mind, let's begin with what led up to the war.
Well, with the causes,
I mean, ostensible cause number one,
I mean, a real cause number one
is the murder of Morris,
because there is beneficiary.
But there is a...
In the background,
as the price for Roman help in 591,
Morris had extracted considerable territorial concessions.
A large chunk of Armenia,
a large chunk of Georgia,
basically divided half and half,
whereas before they'd been divided about
four-fifths person, one-fifth Roman.
And of the key mountain chain,
which runs east of Euphrates towards Lake Van,
then goes into the Mount Zagros Mountains,
this key mountain chain separates the Armenian Theatre of War
from the Mesopotamian Theatre of War,
and the Romans basically gained control
of the central and western passes.
And this gave them a great advantage
of being able to move troops quicker
between the two theatres of war.
I'm sorry about this coffee.
Oh, you're fine.
I've come back from a conference in Italy,
diseased, but I'm the only couple.
Hopefully it's not bubonic, so...
No.
I really hope it's not Covidic either.
Yeah, that too.
Yeah, that too.
So basically, I could say that the Sasanian Empire
was gravely weakened on its western front
by these territorial concessions.
So gratitude to his benefactor,
wanting to address the strategic balance.
And then, thirdly, basically,
war after war had been fought through the 6th century.
And so basically, I think that there was
a general siring of relations.
And it was a great opportunity.
And in spring 603,
Kuzero gave the order to his armies to attack.
And they had to attack on both fronts
to keep the Romans busy on both fronts.
But the much the weaker attack
took place in the north, in Armenia,
say, north of these mountains.
And the main attack was in the south,
in northern Mesopotamia,
where the Persians went for the main forward
Roman base, Gordara.
And after a siege of a year and a half,
they captured it.
And after it's fallen,
they switched the weight of their attack
back to the north, and they made gains there.
Then there's a year of pause
where they recruit more troops,
mobilize more men,
I mean, sort of Putin-like,
but effective mobilization.
And then they resumed the advance
on both the northern and the southern fronts,
the Armenian and the Mesopotamian.
And it's a war, it's a grim war of attrition
in which they push their way forwards,
basically to the Euphrates,
the Romans inner line of defense,
which they've reached by 610,
at which point there is a disturbance
within the Roman Empire,
which is the Heraclian Revolution.
And I'm not sure that many troops
were taken away from the front,
but certainly the resistance weakened
and the Persians got bridgeheads
across the Euphrates.
So that basically prepares the way
for a second phase of the war
when the Roman Empire has been divided into two.
I mean, there's Egypt, Palestine and Syria
to the south of the Persian bridgehead,
which has reached the Mediterranean,
and there is Asia Minor to the north and the west.
And so thereafter the Persians can basically
move their forces, either northwest or south,
and roll up the map of the Middle East.
So conquering successively Syria, Palestine,
they actually occupied Palestine
two years after the siege of Jerusalem.
Then after a pause taking Egypt
between, well, the invasion is in 619.
I think they've got firm control of it by 621.
And then they prepare for the final battle,
which is the battle for Asia Minor
immediately east of Constantinople.
There are so many questions,
and I'm in trouble because if I ask you one,
we're going to go off into this,
but so they conquer Palestine,
they conquer Jerusalem.
And you mentioned there's a large amount of Jews,
especially like we talked about the Babylonian Talmud
that are in this region.
Can you tell me about the alliance
between the Persians and the Jews?
Why did the Jews go up to the Persians in the first place?
And was it a military alliance or something else?
Well, the general notion that the Jews and the Persians
were working very close together,
that basically was a Roman,
I think that was a Roman propaganda view of things.
What we know happened was the Persians intervened
in 614 in Jerusalem
because a pogrom had started as Easter approached
and tensions between the two communities grew.
The Christians turned on the Jews
and the Persians basically intervened
to protect the Jewish community in Jerusalem.
And after the fall of the city,
in fact, they didn't occupy,
they left a sort of control commission in the city,
but they removed all those in regarded as the troublemakers,
including the patriarch,
and they removed the true cross.
But the Persians had a delicate task
because they had large Christian and large Jewish communities
in their homeland, I mean, in Mesopotamia.
So they couldn't tilt too much one way or the other.
So I think that their policy was to be as even-handed as possible.
When they took over Jerusalem,
did they hand over the city of Jerusalem to the Jews?
No.
What they did temporarily after the SAC
was to allow Jews to move into Jerusalem without any controls.
But when they basically established their formal rule over Palestine,
then they reintroduced basically controls,
basically to maintain the balance between the two communities in the holy city.
Basically, because of the possibility of trouble back home,
if they didn't maintain the traditional balance.
But obviously, the Jews being the minority in Palestine and Syria
and Mesopotamia did look to the Persians as protectors.
The Persians weren't going to really shift to become, you know,
conduct pogroms of the Christians.
If you don't mind, I'd like to talk about how the fight back correctly us did.
And we have an entry in the Chronicle of Theophanies who died in 818.
And I'm going to show the front cover for those who are interested in following the sources.
This is the Chronicle of Theophanies. Am I saying that properly?
That's how I always pronounce this.
So in Theophanies, the confessor, sorry.
And in particular, the Emperor, and this is page 442.
The Emperor gathered his troops and gave them courage by assaging them
with these words of exhortation.
Be not disturbed, O brethren, by the multitude of the enemy,
for when God wills it, one man will rout a thousand.
So let us sacrifice ourselves to God for the salvation of our brothers.
May we win the crown of martyrdom so that we may be praised in and then it continues.
I wanted to show this page.
Can you tell us more about the fight back of Heraclius led and its and is this rally his troops to martyrdom?
Is this where Islam got its concept of jihad?
I drew that passage to the attention of a great historian of Islam, Patricia Crona,
who was a Princeton and last died young of cancer a few years back.
And she got absolutely fascinated and began scouring the Quran for similar passages.
Now, the background to it is this, that the Persians basically have wrapped up
the Roman Middle East, Palestine, Syria, Egypt by the end of 621.
And in 622, they start probing into Asia Minor and Heraclius trains up.
It's a small elite force.
He trains it up and leads them on a campaign for in the summer in the summer months.
And they will win some minor success in Northeast Asia Minor.
But then there's a crisis in the West and he has to go back to to go on Saturday and April.
And basically the crisis because a European, a great European power, nomad power has intervened
and attacked and attacked Thessaloniki.
Now, many mentioning it because it meant that the counter the main Roman counter offensive was delayed until spring 624.
Now, in spring 624, Heraclius led this crack force, which I would put at not much more than 15,000 men,
but they were very well trained, had tremendous stamina, they could outmarch.
That was a crucial thing.
They could outmarch the Persian forces.
And once you've got the advantage of speed, you've then got more freedom of choice.
And so along with speed, but there was generalship, which was brilliant at using deception and misinformation.
So in the course of 624, a Persian army, which is assembling to invade Asia Minor,
found itself suddenly threatened and it dissolved and the and the Shah and Shah Kuzro fled south.
And basically 624 Heraclius just could roam at will of devastating the Persian Northwest.
That winter, he wintered in what is now ex-Soviet Azerbaijan,
where he was obviously recruiting Christians from Transcaucasia,
but also opening negotiations with the great power of Central Asia, that of the Turks.
In 625, there's more operations in which this small Roman army is being chased by three Persian armies,
but it's faster. It chooses the moment of combat and it beats them, you know, one by one by one.
And it's in the autumn, that autumn, that Heraclius was withdrawing north to allow his Transcaucasian allies to go home.
It's at the point when they stopped facing a Persian army that Heraclius gave that speech,
which you've just quoted, in which Martyrdom is referred to.
Now that, in my view, comes from an official history of Heraclius' campaigns,
which was commissioned from the poet, George of Pisidia.
And the poet, George of Pisidia, made use of Heraclius' war dispatches sent back to Constantinople,
but inserted for particular highlights, inserted short poems of his own.
And that we know is from a short poem of his own, because we can detect the verse, the Iambic verses.
So this is the official account, written immediately after the events by the official historian.
So it's trustworthy.
Oh, I apologize. I was going to say...
And basically, something of the same sort was said, not quite as clearly, in Spring 624,
when the army crossed over into traditional Persian territory.
And that, I think, is where there's a phrase about death in battle, providing entry into a paradise.
But the word Martyr isn't actually used.
I'm curious to get your thoughts, like, are we... we don't have the best data,
but is there a good reason to think that these sayings of Heraclius have spread down into Arabia
and that Muhammad would have heard of Heraclius' bold claims, his faith position on these things?
We can't... we can't rule that out.
I mean, what I think is absolutely certain is that the Arabs of all sorts,
Nomad and Settled in Arabia, would have been aware of the Great War being fought in the north.
And some of the, you know, the apocalyptic fears of Muhammad, which show themselves so forcibly
in the earlier suras of the Quran, have their origin in human fears about what is happening to the world at that time.
But whether it's a specific thing like this would have got done there at that stage, I think I doubt.
But what I would... where I would locate the origin of this idea is, in fact, nearly 200 years earlier,
you see, when the Armenians in the first in the 40s and then in for 80 to 482 rose up against the Sasanians,
they were much encouraged. I mean, they were obviously in a very weak position.
I mean, they were... well, I mean, they were a very, very feeble Ukraine having to face Russia.
And so the clergy did what they could to encourage them.
And we have speeches reported in the sources in which there are numerous references to martyrdom.
They should fight to die for glory, to them having halos.
So I think it's current in the Christian world.
It's surfaced before in Armenia in the fifth century.
And it's sort of picked up, quite natural to pick it up.
You've got a monotheist religion in the Roman Empire.
It's quite natural to try to harness religion to the cause of the cause of war.
So it's not too big a leap for Heracles to make.
And for Muhammad down in Mecca, well, their plainly are important Jewish and less important,
but still significant Christian influences discernible within the Quran.
I mean, the whole thing may be, but it's come through a human intermediary.
But again, in Muhammad's case, as in Heracluses, as in the Armenians in the fifth century,
you've got a weak, relatively weak antagonist facing much more powerful enemy.
So really, it's a fairly desperate late move.
And I argue that that is a position of the Ummah of the Muslim community by 624,
when they are basically under attack from the Medinans.
And that is when Muhammad, after the Battle of Badr, first declares that those who died were martyrs.
Thank you. Thank you for that answer.
This is the juicy stuff I think everybody's been looking for.
Now, let's talk about what happened on the 21st of March, 630 AD, when Heraclius brought back the true cross, Jerusalem.
And let me show some images real quick here for people.
These are beautiful images right here.
All of these are different paintings, art of Heraclius barefoot there, walking it back in.
Here's another one, really clear, that's beautiful art.
And there's another one, bringing the true cross back.
I just really love that art a lot.
Here, I just maybe want to make a brief comment about this, but I wanted to get into Savios, if that's okay with you, the Armenian history.
You want to just go ahead and continue?
Oh, right, yes. I thought you were going to produce a bit of Turesebios on the screen.
Let's do it. Yeah, let's do it. I am better than any words of mine.
Yeah, so okay, here we go then.
We have Savios, who wrote in his Chronicle in 660 AD, telling us how everyone felt.
When the blessed pious and late lamented king Heraclius had received the Lord's holy cross, he gathered his army with ardent and happy heart.
He set out with a royal, was this retinue?
Retinue, yep.
Honoring the holy, wonderful and heavenly discovery and brought it to the holy city with all the vessels of the church, which he has saved from the hands of the enemy in the city of Byzantium.
There was no little joy on that day as they entered Jerusalem.
There was the sound of weeping and welling, their tears flowing from the awesome fervor of the emotion of their hearts and from the rending of the entrails of the king, the princess, all the troops and the inhabitants of the city.
No one was able to sing the Lord's chants from the fearful and agonizing emotion of the king and the whole multitude.
He set it back upon, sorry, set it back up in its place and put all the vessels of the churches in their places and distributed the alms and the money for the incense to all the churches and inhabitants of the city.
So, did the restoration of the true cross trigger any apocalyptic feelings that this may be the signs of the second coming of Christ and the end of the world?
Well, there are, yes, there are stirrings.
The stirrings particularly are showing in the, in Syrian, in Syrian writings.
But I think neither in the Roman Empire nor in the Sanyin, it's a Sanyin empire at this, at this stage.
I mean, it was, it was a ceremony fraught with significance.
I should just say that Roman, when the war was getting really wrong.
So, you know, in the run-up, the late sort of 618, 619 to 621, that's when the Romans could do very little.
They could, of course, pump out propaganda.
And that's where they focused, maybe the under focus on the true cross.
And the true cross became a sort of a central, a central feature.
And it was going to, it was going to be the real symbolic trophy of victory.
Now, in, in six, by this time in 630, there'd already been two rounds of negotiation.
There was going to be a third, but basically the peace was pretty much, was pretty much fixed.
And Heraclius would be simply sorting, reimposing Roman authority over the recovered provinces after, after he'd been to Jerusalem.
The ceremony itself, it's a very, very significant day.
You see, according to the Easter Chronicle, which was written at about this time, which probably ended with the count of this ceremony,
the third day of creation, Wednesday, when the sun and the moon, the stars were created,
that was when time began, because you could start to calibrate it.
And that was Wednesday, the 21st of March, for the Easter Chronicle.
Now, the 21st of March was also the equinox.
That is the start of the Persian New Year festival, Na Ruz,
at which point the powers of good would reemerge and prevail over the powers of evil on, on, on earth.
So it's a day absolutely fraught with, with significance.
And that was a, and so that was a ceremony which then would resonate through Christendom for centuries to come.
And in particular, many of the manuscript illuminations which you showed are probably illuminations to the story of the,
it's the Golden Legend.
It's, it's a, it's a slightly embroidered version of the story, The Return of the Cross,
about how Heraclius, in order to enter through the Golden Gate onto the Temple Mount,
had to himself shed his imperial robes and get off his horse and come in as a man, a humble man, on foot.
And then the Gate of Heraclius, he opens.
Now, it's that story, which is, which was, which was being illustrated,
but it, it shows the astonishing grip that it had on the Christian imagination for the foreseeable future.
I also have to show everybody the cave of the books, the book, sorry, the book of the cave of treasures.
And this I think was written in the end of the sixth or beginning of the seventh century.
Just to read this, the king of the Greeks will go up and stand upon Galgotha,
where our Lord was crucified and he will set the royal crown upon the top of the Holy Cross upon which our Lord was crucified.
He will stretch out his two hands to heaven and will deliver over the kingdom to God the Father.
And so did the people, or did people believe that Heraclius was the last emperor before the second coming of Christ?
No, no. Basically, the, I mean, it's a very, very dramatic moment when the supreme ruler on earth comes to the most sacred place on earth.
But the notion of the last emperor coming and laying down his crown, that, that basically is a scenario which was envisaged in an apocalyptic text
known as Pseudomathodius, and that's where it's fully articulated.
And that's a text which has been firmly dated to the 680s, early 690s, as the great civil war was tearing the Caliphate, the Islamic empire apart.
And so Christian hopes were arising, again, in the Syrian world.
So there's something of a stirring, as I said, in the 620s.
But the real articulation of this best known of all the apocalyptic texts is happening later.
And it was giving hope, giving hope to all those who'd been conquered by Islam.
Wow. A few more here if you don't mind, James.
We have a Hadith and an entry into the Doctrina Jacobi, written in 634 AD, where we have Muhammad also believing the second coming of Christ.
So just to read that, Allah's messenger said,
The hour will not be established until the Son of Mary, Jesus, descends amongst you as a just ruler.
He will break the cross, kill the pigs, and abolish the jizya tax.
Money will be in abundance so that nobody will accept that as charitable gifts.
And just to show the Doctrina Jacobi proclaiming the arrival or the Saracens.
And he is proclaiming the arrival of the coming anointed one and Christ.
So we have non-Muslim and then Muslim sources kind of lining up that Islam has a second coming of Jesus Doctrin built into its core.
Yeah, well, the problem with Hadith is that these are much later scholarly comments on the core texts.
What Hadith are trying to do, I mean, Muhammad throughout his career was adamant that he was simply a human being.
He was simply a vehicle for a transmitter of God's message to man.
So what he did and what he said as a human being really was of no significance.
But the Hadith are basically presupposed that everything that Muhammad said and everything that he did is basically should be viewed as an example to be followed by future Muslims.
So this huge literature was built up but basically going against the Prophet's view.
So there's a complicated process of trying to trace Hadith back as early as possible.
I've no idea how far back you can trace that one.
Right.
As regards the Doctrina Jacopi, Nupa baptizati.
So it's a fascinating text because it's Christian text directed towards Jews, but it's actually trying to persuade them to come over.
It's not a sort of polemic.
It's arguments which are designed to win them over.
And it's got several references to what is happening in the Middle East.
But it's giving a Christian view of what the Muslims were up to.
So they're completely misinterpreting Muhammad.
As I've said, Muhammad basically viewed Christ as a much closer to God than he Muhammad was.
Muhammad was just one human being among other human beings.
No question of him being the United One.
Thank you so much for that.
I mean, you kind of answered this here, but my question was, do you think Muhammad also believed that Heraclius restoring the true cross triggered off maybe some apocalyptic fervor,
second coming of Christ, and he wanted to be in Jerusalem as well?
It seems that there's a mission where he's wanting to go and accomplish or capture Jerusalem looking at like Luke 1333, which says no prophet shall perish outside of Jerusalem.
You kind of wonder if he being a prophet figure thinks, I got to be in Jerusalem.
I don't know.
Well, you're certainly right that Jerusalem, the Holy City for the Jews, so for the Old Testament, the Holy City for Christians, the second great set of instructions for humanity from God,
that it was the Holy City for the recipients of the Third Revelation, Islam for Muhammad.
So the new religion would have always been been looking towards Jerusalem.
But you see back in the 620s, up until basically up until 630, when Muhammad extended his authority over Mecca.
Until that point, there really was no prospect of the Ummah becoming any sort of power.
In fact, it was only in 628 when there was an agreement was reached between the Muslims and the Quraish, the leaders, the notables of Mecca,
which enabled the Muslims to start sending out missions to different parts of Arabia.
It was only then that Islam began to spread widely through the Arabian Peninsula.
It was only from then that they could think of beginning to try to win over the powerful Arab federations in the north of Arabia.
So I think it was far beyond the bounds of anything sort of conceivable until maybe the very last year or two of Muhammad's life.
Certainly, he did send, one of his last acts was to send an army north in 632.
But the first actual fighting in Palestine, we've got a precise date for it.
It's in February 634, when a victory was won in the hinterland of Gaza, and the Arabs were able to maraud at will.
So, I mean, two minds. I mean, I think, you know, Muhammad viewed himself as a prophet to the Arabs in the first instance,
but to humanity at large in the second. And Jerusalem was the holy city.
So I'm sure it would have been in the longer run a target, as of course it was.
Thank you. One more, and I'll let you go here.
I want to move to Sabios again in this passage about Jews coming to Muhammad.
So Jews went and gathered at the city of Edessa, and then just to skip taking desert roads, they went to Pakistan to the sons of Ishmael,
summoned them to their aid. And this is in the history of attributed to Sabios.
My question about this is, the Jews after capturing Jerusalem with the Persians lost it again due to the peace treaty they had made between Heraclius and the Persians.
Do you think that the reason the Jews went to Muhammad was simply that they wanted to recapture Jerusalem again?
Well, I think I wouldn't take, I think, I mean, the history attributed to Sabios is, you know, it's a wonderful text.
And because of the date of it, you know, it's written within 30 years of the death of the prophet.
Now, the passage that follows the one you were quoting is remarkably sound in terms of, you know, Muhammad is a merchant, etc., and their beliefs.
But this passage about the Jews, I think we're then again entering the minds of Christians at the time.
So it's rather like what's going on in, you know, the views in North Africa about the prophet.
This is an Armenian view, so Armenia well to the north of Palestine, an Armenian view, knowing that there were close connections between Jews and Muslims.
You know, there had been in Medina. It's very much, it's a Christian view of it.
So I dare say there is some truth to it. I'm sure there were connections between North and South.
But the whole tale of, as it were, the Promised Land, it's promised to Arabs as well as Jews because they're closely related.
That, I think, is a Christian sort of rationalization of what was happening.
I love this. Thank you for your time, Dr. James Howard Johnson. I have questions about the Quran I'd love to get into with you.
I'm thinking, especially with this Persian-Roman war in upper Mesopotamia, there's this, there's like almost apocalyptic mythological narrative of a wall that we find within the Quran as well,
that duke or nine and stuff like that needs to, like there's some apocalyptic mythological thing that's going on.
I'd love to dive into this with you and get your take. I don't know if you want to tease us now or if you want to just follow up with another episode.
I think let's follow up with another episode on the wall that keeps out Gog and Magog.
Yeah, I'll need to do a little bit of prep on that. But on the Quran, I mean, I have a, I have a, I think I've referred to it.
I went to a conference recently on the Quran, which was being examined as a text.
And everyone else was there was looking at the text of the Quran and what had gone into it.
But I was interested in the text of the Quran as a major actor in the seventh, in the events of the seventh century of its effects.
And when I can read within it key passages, which tell one, I think tell one how it was that this religion, which before 628 was confined to a small group of immigrants in Medina.
Conquered the world. So yeah, the secret is in the Quran.
And finally, it's been staring us in the face for all these years.
But no one has noticed that.
I think that's a perfect way to end this episode. Everybody go in the description, get the books, help support us on the Patreon.
We love educating the world and giving you things you're just not going to find out there.
I appreciate your time. Dr. James Howard Johnson, please get one of his books.
And until next time, ladies and gentlemen, are there any final words from you, James?
No, no.
Thank you. We are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
MythVision.
MythVision.
MythVision.
MythVision.
