Ladies and gentlemen, I want to fly to Princeton University in New Jersey to interview Dell
C. Allison, Jr. Professor Allison is a very deep mind as you will see in this three-part
series here we did remotely.
I want to interview him in person, high definition and make history.
Go check out our Patreon, help join us to grow that, ask me questions, but if you help
participate I'll ask your questions.
I just need to meet this goal because in October I'd like to be up there and interviewing
him.
Welcome back, part three with Dr. Dell C. Allison, Jr. Welcome back.
Let's finish this up.
Okay.
Eschatology is a study of last things and I wanted to give you a little context so maybe
you can address the worldview I came out of and maybe tell me as a historian, a scholar,
expert on these topics.
As it pertains to resurrection, but also there's a bigger theme, resurrection plays
a huge role, but eschatology is a big idea that can be discussed.
It ties together though.
I was a full preterist.
Are you aware who full preterists are?
You mean that everything is fulfilled in what, 8070 or?
Yes, sir.
Yeah.
Everything was fulfilled when I was, the final place I went was full preterism because
of the time statements.
There were so many, Jesus himself said this generation, it's going to happen soon.
Over and over the book of revelation opens with these things must soon take place and
then I'm coming quickly at the end of John or the apocalypse revelation and on and on.
So I thought it had to happen soon because it said it was going to happen soon, but we
had to do a little bit of gymnastics with terms.
You had to kind of redefine what death was or as the book of revelation puts it, no more
tears or no more darkness, no more moon.
You won't need these celestial bodies because God is your light.
The new Jerusalem becomes allegorical or symbolic.
Everything gets kind of redefined to fit 8070.
Second Peter three, the element shall melt with fervent heat.
Oh, that's the elements within the temple.
And that's the Torah observance that the priest would observe in the temple, not planet earth.
It became a temple thing.
And so scholars across the board, every person I ask, yesterday, Dr.
James Tabor, Dr.
Bart the airman, you name it, they all recognize what was expected to happen, didn't happen.
So usually the time clock gets pushed off into the future days as a thousand years
and a thousand years is a day.
What is your take on eschatology?
If you will, this end, did it happen or did it actually not happen and why?
Well, you better be right.
No, I'm just going to dodge the question of why that's that's God.
And that's on a par with the problem of evil, as far as I'm concerned.
OK, OK. So.
Actually, I think the problem of the delay of the parousia is the problem
of evil in another form.
That is, if you truly believe that God is love and God cares for everybody
and wants the best for everybody, why the heck is God not stopping
everything right now or yesterday or post haste, right?
I think it's the problem of evil and just in a chronological form.
OK. So I don't believe that.
What Jesus expected or what Paul expected came.
One of the ways of thinking about this
theologically is I believe Jewish eschatology is in part
an attempt to address the problem of evil and the problem of evil is still with us.
In fact, I don't think you can argue that things are better now today, right?
Two thousand one is twenty one two thousand twenty one human beings are
better or the world is better than it was in eighty seventy or eighty thirty three.
So if eschatology is really the solution to the problem of evil
and evil is still with us, then it simply means that the end hasn't come
or the end as they conceived of it hasn't come.
And then you can, I don't know, as you know, you can use this as a reason
to dismiss Christianity or you can be a modern theologian and figure out how to
demythologize and reinterpret the text and say they were wrong on this level.
But in some other way, they still have something to say to us.
But it's obvious to me, obvious to me as an historian
that many ancient Jews and many early Christians thought that the end was at hand
and they meant by this a real dramatic transformation of our reality.
And nobody has seen that yet.
So the problem that it's to solve is still with us or the biggest problem
that it is to solve is still with us. Therefore, it hasn't happened.
So death shall be swallowed up is a clear idea in the Apocalypse of John.
And I say this is a skeptic. I wish that were true.
You know, I really wish I say this all the time.
I say, you know, I'm the kind of guy who doesn't know.
I'm technically agnostic on knowing if something is or isn't.
I would love to spend the rest of my life with my family forever
in some blissful place or an afterlife type thing.
I would love that.
But I say death being swallowed up as a as a preterist.
I interpreted death to be covenantal death or spiritual death.
And I look at things like Ephesians and go, you were dead in your trespasses
and sins, but never saw that even sin was the production of death,
according to the mindset of a Jew.
So like they saw that sin was why we die in the beginning.
And they redefine death.
For example, in the garden, they say, in the date you eat thereof,
you will surely die.
They literally take that day and say, did he physically die that day?
Oh, of course not.
So therefore, death is not what you think it is.
And it's a fundamentalist way of trying to harmonize to make 70 AD
the time in which covenant death was put to an end or a spiritual death,
not literal death that seems to be foreign to what you're saying, right?
That is not that is totally foreign to what I say.
And that's not a school of thought that I have spent a lot of time with
because it's at odds with I think it's at odds with all sorts of things
that I believe that I know. OK.
I don't know what else to say.
We don't I mean, we don't read the Dead Sea Scrolls that way.
And they expected something that didn't come to pass.
We don't read forth Ezra that way.
He expected something that wasn't that didn't come to pass.
We don't read first Enoch that way.
They the authors of that were hoping for some radical transformation
in the not too distant future, their hopes and dreams were disappointed.
And this is true down through history.
I would side with the skeptics here when it comes to how to understand
the theology you just introduced when people prophesy things
and there was a great commitment to the prophecy or to the organization
in which it arises and things do not happen.
People will reinterpret prophecy.
So as you probably know, the Seventh Day Adventists
have their origin in prophecies about the end of the world in the 1840s.
They were not realized.
But the Seventh Day Adventists came to say, well, Jesus did
have a second coming.
It was in heaven rather than on earth.
He entered the heavenly sanctuary and so on.
Jehovah's Witnesses has done similar things with
prophecies that have not come to pass.
You can find similar things in
some Islamic sources.
So I just think this is a natural thing.
If you have a prophecy and it doesn't fit,
you can say things have been delayed for one reason or another,
or you can make it sort of fit, do the best that you can.
And your preterist idea, I think, is an example of the latter.
And I think this is a common move in the history of religions
when you're talking about millenarian or messianic movements.
You try to figure out how things have been fulfilled,
even though on the surface, your expectations haven't been met.
OK, final thing in this, I love this.
And thank you again for your time and wonderful work.
I have to read a lot of your works
because I plan on making a trip happen.
If we can make that happen, that would be wonderful.
Fabulous book.
And this is just the book specifically we're dealing with with the resurrection
that you just wrote or was at least released recently.
But the general resurrection, Jesus rose from the dead.
He's the first fruits.
This ties in proving this didn't happen yet idea
because full preters say the resurrection happened in 70 AD.
But how? That's a different question.
But how was the resurrection understood in the New Testament?
Like one day a resurrection is going to happen.
And it might be different in different books because John.
Maybe you can interpret this for me because Mary is like if you were here
and then we know at the resurrection and she's crying and he says,
I am the resurrection.
Well, is that realized eschatology?
Is this different from what they thought was going to happen?
Would that be?
Yeah, so of course, John's Gospel is realized eschatology
and I would approach John in part as
representing a case in which
you have an eschatological worldview,
certain prophecies or expectations have not been met.
And so you reinterpret them.
That just seems to me, again, obvious with John.
That's part of his realized eschatology.
But I think he's in continuity with the other Gospels.
I think Mark, as I said earlier, Mark has the same thing implicitly
when he has parallels between the Passion narrative and Mark 13.
He's saying this is somehow already fulfilled or it's begun to be fulfilled.
I also have a suspicion here that maybe I'll get to it someday.
But I would I would like to come back to this question of comparative religion
and eschatological disappointment because
I think once the horizontal disappoints,
there is a tendency to do the vertical.
I think that's what's going on in the Gospel of John.
I think I can make this case.
That's what's going on with some of the Native American movements around 1900,
their disappointment, the ghost dance and all of that and what comes later.
Maybe early Gnosticism fits this in part.
You can't do the horizontal, so you're doing the vertical.
It's just totally it's totally natural, it seems to me.
So the focus can be ahead or it can be up.
And I think in early Christianity, the focus initially is
mostly forward and then as time goes along,
you move your eyes up, so I can unravel what you said for our audience
who may not have picked up on that is really interesting.
The horizontal is kind of the historical timeline.
These things would actually take place in history, whereas you can kind of get
a spiritual understanding like Gnostics are extremely
heavenly, personal experience.
In fact, it gets so crazy and valentineous and others
that like they think they have more authority than Paul at this point.
Like they're like, well, we have a direct revelation.
In fact, and I just wanted to mention
on the timeline, what was their expectation of resurrection
that they would eventually rise the same way we discussed earlier in part one and part two?
OK, so there you're really pushing the sources.
So you're talking about the first Christians.
I think the only thing you can do is just put together a bunch of texts.
You can put together Daniel 12.
You can put together Ezekiel 37.
You you can put together you just add a bunch of texts and you say, well,
this is what Jews thought about resurrection.
There's no reason to think early Christians believed anything different
than that. As time goes along, Christians then have their own reflection.
So first Corinthians 15 is really an interesting text.
And Paul's thought a lot about this and I think he probably has some new ideas.
So as as time goes on, ideas about the resurrection are going to change.
But if you're asking about the earliest Christians,
I think the best you can do is just put a bunch of Jewish texts together
and stare at them and say, that's probably what they thought.
Well, they they go beyond the resurrection in first Corinthians 15.
And Paul does it sounds like cosmic stuff is going to change, too.
Like, yeah. Oh, OK.
But I think second Baruch does that.
Daniel 12 might do that.
There's reference to the stars there.
I think John Collins thinks that that that might be Astro immortality.
If he's right about that, then you already got that sort of thing in Daniel.
That's controversial.
The commentators, modern commentators disagree about that.
But I think there's a really good possibility
you already have that sort of idea in Daniel.
So I see precedent for what Paul is doing.
Thank you for this 15.
This is amazing.
I really hope everyone watching not only saw
how you dealt with these questions, but we'll go and read the book.
It's it's got a wonderful cover on it.
And there's I love this stuff.
I'm a skeptic who actually loves this stuff.
I hope you notice that.
Well, that's by the way, that is the only book cover I have ever chosen.
Every other time I've made I read 20 some books and no publisher has ever said,
yeah, that's a good one.
They've said, we're going to hand it out to our department, whatever.
But the advertising people handle this.
I actually picked this cover, found it online
and they said, OK, we'll do it.
So I was amazed.
So much material in it.
Anyone who's interested in these topics should go read.
You talk about things I've never heard about, never thought about in that way.
And that's one of the reasons I do appreciate.
And I think what I said at the beginning of the first part
about scholars saying that one of the greatest in our time,
it is something worth looking into.
Well, thank you very much.
Let's make that trip happen, Dr. Allison.
OK, I hope we can do that.
And ladies and gentlemen, in case you're on either side,
I don't care where you fall on this.
In fact, I understand why people believe.
And, you know, we talked about the apocalyptic stuff at the end.
A lot of that stuff is giving people hope.
There's a there's some deep meaning to these things.
And I don't want us to laugh it off.
And I also don't want us to bash people who may be more skeptical
of approaching these things.
So I'm trying to bridge a gap, a chasm,
and maybe just maybe someone can touch water and dab it
on the tongue of the rich man in this particular case.
So with that being said, never forget we are MythVision.
