We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision podcast.
I have a good friend, John White.
He has a YouTube channel.
Make sure you go down in the description.
Check him out.
We're going to have an awesome conversation today.
You might do a live next time and let you guys ask questions live, but John, welcome
to the show, my friend.
Thank you, Doug.
Pleasure to be here.
Yeah.
I saw you kick it off with Dr. Carrier, Dr. Richard Carrier on the Historicity and you
have similar interest as I do, but you also have a YouTube channel.
So tell everybody what you do on your YouTube channel and what sparked your interest and
what's it about.
Okay.
My YouTube channel is called Crecganford and it's basically telling stories about religion,
about myth, about legend.
And it's called Crecganford because I actually live in a place that was known as Crecganford
in ancient history books, which was where the Saxons came to England and kept what were
Britons out of England and England became the England we know today.
But that interest then allowed me to look at other religions and other things such as
the Abrahamic God and our bountains of Richard Carrier's work on YouTube.
And I thought, I must talk to this guy and he himself has many good stories and say on
top of all the other things that I know about the Anglo-Saxon, Norse God, both Indo-Europeans.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That is interesting.
Indo-Europeans, I hear a lot about this.
There's a few floating theories out there, but mainstream, there's a majority group that
sides with one theory and I honestly, I'm a student.
I'm a student.
I don't know these things like you would.
So I don't even know where to begin ultimately.
Well, I can tell you, so yes, the theories tend to be, there's a weird approach to Indo-European
start.
Okay.
So in the history of the world, there was a younger, drier period and that was a period
where the earth suddenly got cold and then warmed up again over a couple of thousand
years and that was about 14,000 years ago.
And it was almost like a reset button on human civilization.
And in Eurasia, when the humans restarted, one of the most fertile places was what was
Anatolia, where modern-day Turkey, and they created Glebeki Dep, if you may have heard
of that, which is one of the oldest temples, and just near there, we believe the original
farmers started what we call early European farmers and they spread because farming seemed
to be a really good thing, although if you look at it actually, it's a really hard thing
to do.
You know, it's a lot more energy to get less food compared to hunter-gathering, but it was
very popular spread across Europe.
And then some couple of thousand years after that, another group, just north of them near
the Black Sea in the Russian steppes, they worked out how to tame horses to ride and
invented the wheel that could be used in wagons.
And that coupled with farming and the one that you get of having wheeled transport suddenly
made them spread across the Eurasian continent.
And with that, we can tell through common languages.
So we can tell there's common traits of particular languages that all motorway languages come
from this one point in the Eurasian continent.
They spread their myths and their stories.
And that sort of really interests me in, well, we've got all these stories in all these
different places.
Can we trace them back or can we go source?
And yeah, that is nice to know who was their original gods and what's the difference between
them and the Abrahamic religions.
Interesting.
So during this, I am, you know, I'm familiar with Glebeke Tepe.
If that's how you actually pronounce it.
Yeah, and I'm aware that a lot of people will say that that's when agricultural farming,
things like that might be taking place in this period, so to speak, roughly give or
take a few thousand years.
And we went from just hunter-gatherers to farming.
But this is also where a lot of people think the origin of religions, or at least after
the Ice Age, that we can even trace back to religions really have their trace into.
Do you happen to have any idea what the gods were that people worshipped or what they maybe
believed?
Hmm.
So religion, as I see it started, it's always been there.
I think there's a natural human desire to want to believe.
So even if you're an atheist and don't believe in God, you do have a natural desire to believe
in something, you know, Star Wars or something that you wouldn't necessarily consider religious,
but could be considered a religion, strictly speaking.
So 40,000 years ago is when we start seeing actually the first religious objects appear.
And most famous is a lion man.
So a lion man was carved, found in a cave in Germany, about 38,000 years old.
It's the first time that there is some personification of an imaginary object that someone can hold.
And we can tell by looking at it, actually, that this object, and I've got a model of it,
just appear if you want to see it.
In fact, let me.
Here we go.
So you see.
So this man, 30,000, it looks like a cave line and cave lines were probably 50% bigger
than African lines.
They're huge.
Most dangerous beasts probably around at the time, which is why it's great.
And it's been created into a human form.
And this object, you can tell, has been passed around.
It's got smooth bodies as though people keep holding it.
So people are telling stories with this.
And that's the very first example we've got.
And then after that, we start to get what we call Venus figures and their figures of women.
Normally.
Quite buxom women, I've got to call them, you know, I think is the modern day term.
The kids use.
But yeah, so where people worship in a mother figure, I was like a mother goddess or goddess
of fertility to help, I guess, spread the human race.
And then there's lots of cave paintings and lots of orientation towards hunting, which
I can talk about because we still know some stories from that time.
That, you know, from 20, 30,000 years ago, the Shamba Drass event, which is a strange
event, which put the human race on the brink.
And then after that, we get to Becky Tep.
And from there, whilst we don't necessarily understand the gods of
Rebecca Tep, we do have some way of tracing back the gods that came from the
proto-Indian Europeans because of the common names to understand what those gods are.
And the common one is that's putter.
And that's putter that goes into the Roman Jupiter, the Greek Zeus.
Or it goes into Tewa's Germanic, which goes to Tia in Lord Ignis.
So real quick, deus putter?
Yeah.
How do you spell that just for people who want to search it?
That'll probably be D-Y-E-U-S or D-Y-E-S, putter, P-T-H-E-R, or be like that.
It depends if you're proto.
There are various faves and different pronunciations.
No one's exactly sure how it's pronounced.
It's a made up word because we have Heavenly Father, like a Heavenly Father type figure.
It means Sky God, basically.
It is the God of all you see.
And from there, so you have a Mother Earth and a Sky God.
And from there, other gods start to happen.
So you get gods of storms.
So when people think of Thor, like Thor meaning thunder, they think,
oh, the Thor must be a thunder god.
Well, actually Thor isn't a thunder god.
Thor's a sky god because he was so well-worshiped.
And there was actually a different thunder god in the North Sea region.
But and the thunder god we have is called Perkunus, for example.
So the protein in the European Perkunus, which we can see has spread all through Europe,
is a thunder god with a hammer or an axe and has had four thousands of years.
And chose these.
Well, Yahweh would be a sky god.
And also is seen fighting according to the critical scholars like Dr.
Robert M. Price, which I'm going to hook you up with him, by the way.
You're going to I know you'll have fun doing shows with him on these topics.
But he talks about how Yahweh fought Leviathan, you know,
and there's even the lore that he created the world from the carcass of the dragon.
That and they're like, so that is fantastic.
So there are a lot of creation myths around.
OK, I'm going to I'll tell you a few briefly
and then this should astound you if you've never heard. OK, I love this.
So. Initially, when people try to work out
all these religions the same, there were two people sitting on the fence.
They were trying to say, well, did it go through Iran and into the Rig Veda?
Or did it go to Greece or Rome?
And I can work out under the big issue was the Nordic myth.
The Nordic myth didn't fit the Germanic myth
because the Germanic went up to Norway and Sweden to Scandinavia.
It didn't work out until they realized that the Nordic myth
is actually so close to the original, it didn't change like the other myths.
And that's because it's quite isolated.
It didn't have as much influence from other cultures.
And to summarize the Nordic creation myth, it goes a bit like this.
So in the beginning of the cosmos,
it was all dark and there was heat and cold.
And heat and cold came together, created the first primordial being called Emyr.
OK, now, Emyr also had with him a giant cow.
And that's a common myth, the giant cow pit.
So that tells you that this creation myth
came about when we started using cows in farming.
OK, so Emyr, giant cow, the giant cow was licking some of the ice
and Emyr was neither man nor woman.
He was both as one and Emyr actually cognized with the word twin, meaning two.
And what happens is Emyr basically rubs his legs together,
keep this family friendly and creates some beans.
The cow licks some ice, creates some beans and these beans turn into the gods
and what we call giants or the yudhans, which are like monstrous beings
that come to be the Norse gods. OK.
Now, three of those were turned out to be Odin, Philly and V.
And Odin or Odin, as most people call it, Odin is probably
he they got fed up of floating around the cosmos with Emyr.
So they killed Emyr and with his body, they created the world.
And then Odin comes down to the world with Philly and V
and in some stories, they then create humans from trees.
And that's how the world came to be in the Nordic creation.
However, because you think, oh, that's quite a unique story.
If you haven't heard it before, you think that's that's interesting.
So the let's take a Roman creation,
if not the the sort of the larger culture, but the one of Rome of Romulus and Remus.
Right.
Romulus and Remus are twins and Emyr figure.
They they have a they don't have a cow.
They have a wolf who they suck all for their milk.
Romulus kills Remus and creates Rome.
There you go.
And there's all these types of myths.
And so the very original proto-Indo-European creation myth.
And this was created by Dr.
David Antony, who is a very famous professor in Proto-Indo-European work.
The very original Proto-Indo-European myth.
So one that was created six to eight thousand years ago went in the beginning.
There was Yimol, which is Proto-Indo-European for twin, in effect,
and Manus, who was man, so man and his twin, and a giant cow.
Manus got fed up of floating through the cosmos in the beginning,
killed Yimo and created the world to his body parts.
And then Manus comes down to the world and teaches as a priest figure
and teaches to ritual sacrifice how to keep the world in order.
And so that's if any of you think that story is eight thousand years old,
and then you've got the Nordic myth that we still know today.
And then you've got other myths like the Roman myth,
but equally the Greek and the Rig Veda and the Persian myth
all had these similar traits of killing a monstrous being to create the world.
It's awesome. And that's the thing.
It's like, wow, actually, we could all be created.
And so some people may say, oh, but that myth, you know,
it could just be a natural human thought to think that, you know,
so it could be a coincidence that multiple cultures think that.
However, we can prove that Yimo and Amir and
Garoumartan from the Persian, like all stem from Yimo,
all stem from this twin idea.
And because of that, we can tell that that primordial God is the same
word in effect from all those different cultures.
We know it must have stemmed from the same source.
It's kind of like and I love this because to give you a
I guess you'd say an archaeological example.
Why are there pyramids on every continent?
You know, like why do we find pyramid structures?
Not just any building.
I mean, yeah, humans are going to build a building. Whoop, they do.
We're talking about pyramid shaped, sometimes using similar measurements.
And you can tell that there's a common knowledge
that's passed down and taught to these societies in some respect.
They're not identical in every way.
But you kind of look in South America and then you look at Giza and you go.
Well, what happened here?
And some people want to go, well, it was just in the imagination of man.
I'm not going to say it's not plausible or a possibility,
but the likeliness of them not having some common knowledge
that somehow was passed down from a source at some point in the distant past.
To me, that's more probable.
And so, yeah, as I like.
So let me tell you the oldest story we know in the world.
OK, tell me, I cannot wait.
OK, so people, other people say there's older stories of this,
but this one, we can prove its age, OK, and therefore we know.
So it's the oldest one we can prove the age of.
And it starts by a group of hunters around the fireplace, eating some elk.
OK, and it's nighttime and they're in the northern Germany. OK.
And the main hunter starts telling this story that in the spring,
an elk comes out of a cave where he's been hibernating.
And these hunters are hungry and they go and chase the elk
and it runs through the sky.
OK, and it runs through the night skies.
And there's a constellation that represents this elk and these hunters,
and which is we call it the Plough, the Big Dipper or Sir Major.
If you're familiar with that.
And we know that because the hunters that are chasing this elk
have pots and pans and spears.
And that's a common mythologem where this story is told.
And if you look at Ursa Major, you'll see that by the main stars,
actually smaller stars that represent these pots and pans and spears
is what you see.
Anyway, this hunter chases the elk across the seasons until wintertime.
And there, wintertime, they managed to kill the elk
and it lies on the ground dead.
And they eat it and celebrate and feast.
But the next spring, a baby elk comes out of the cave
because that was a mother elk and it's had a baby and it comes out
and the cycle repeats and people chase that.
And that is how they viewed the story of the sun going across the sky
and getting warm and then darker and the night ends now.
You think, OK, there's much there.
How do you know that's old?
Because the same story has been told in Italy,
but they don't have elk in Italy.
They tell it with a deer and the deer catches the sun in its antlers
and pulls it across the sky.
OK, still, you're not convinced.
Siberia, the same story is told.
They have elk, but their elks don't have antlers.
Any guess what animal they use?
Rain deer. Mammoth. Oh, mammoth.
Well, that starts giving you a clue of how this is.
And the mammoth doesn't run through the sky, but rather than kill it,
it hides in the water in the winter and it comes out of the water.
The river thought in the spring and they chase it again.
We're not done there in North America.
The same story is told by the natives there and they use a bear.
All right. And but in the autumn, they kill the bear
and its blood sprays across the land, turning the trees from green to brown.
And that's why the trees leaves change color.
Now, if you look at that sort of thing,
how did that story go from Germany to North America?
It must have happened when there was an ice age bridge between Russia and Alaska.
That's 20,000 years ago.
The fact is, using mammoths in Siberia at least 20,000 years ago.
But here's the here's the catch, right?
Ursa Major, never in the northern hemisphere, stays in the in the sky.
Clearly in the sky, it never touches the horizon.
It never can hide in a river.
It can never hit the grounds.
The earth isn't stationary.
It moves on its axis and over years, you know, the orbits change.
Astronomical charts show that 30 to 40,000 years ago,
the earth was slightly different position.
Ursa Major was on the horizon come the winter time.
See, this is and this is exactly why I'm I'm making an intro right now to my to my show.
I've got I've got people working on graphics and it starts with like just, you know,
mountains, OK, you're right there on earth.
Then I launch up into the sky and there I peer and there's planets and asteroids
because I think the further back we go,
we find a huge connection to the heavens.
OK, that was survival.
I mean, if you're going to be honest,
how are you going to know when things are coming?
But also they were oral thinking people.
Buddy of mine, Dr.
Dr. John Knight Lundwall, he has written a book about this,
but ultimately to dumb it down prior to writing.
They were oral people and the way that they memorize things, they connected things
like if you and me were back 40,000 years ago and we saw Venus come up
and when Venus starts coming up at night because it's their TV at night,
in you and me are observing the stars and we notice that the greens come in
and it's warming up, the spring is coming.
We would like naturally connect because humans work based on pattern.
We would look at Venus and say it has the power of life
because every time Venus comes, life comes on earth, green comes.
So they start connecting celestial bodies by observing what's above
because it never changes.
It repeats the same cycles and connecting it to the reality on earth,
on earth as it is in heaven.
Jesus says this famous prayer, right?
You know, now we're going way ahead.
But the point is this this tradition still connects as above so below.
And that's the way they thought.
Now, when they started writing, he said the hardware was the same,
but the software changed on how they did things.
So we were able to compartmentalize things and start separating.
Well, Venus doesn't actually bring life to earth.
But in the ancient world, you could see why they did that.
And so I really, really love this stuff because our ancestors weren't dumb.
They just didn't have a way of knowing or proving Venus isn't the reason
why green grass grows.
They just connected the two.
Rather, though, it's a it's a very interesting concept to realize why
they did those things or the sun or the moon or, you know, whatever else it might be.
A celestial body plays a huge important role.
And then we still do it today with tarot cards with people who are like,
what's your zodiac? And I mean, look, I'm a I'm a Gemini, right?
But does that really change my destiny?
I mean, that's what people believe.
It's still passed on till today.
But we just rabbit-troll it a little bit.
But about that's interesting.
So one of the Greek philosophers said, I don't know, Socrates,
saying that writing was the worst thing ever to happen to humanity
because we forgot how to think and look at the world.
And that's why many of the older stories of poems,
because it's easier to remember a poem and not not everybody rind in those days.
They tend to use sort of alliteration and right number of syllables.
But poetry was an easier way to remember stories than
just normal words, as people know today, you know, words for songs.
You don't necessarily remember the last couple of pages from a book you read.
That's how it works.
But yeah, so I do think there is a big difference when humans started to write.
It changed how we thought.
Right, a better or for worse.
But I think for some of it was for worse because we forgot how to look at the world
and how to really appreciate that.
And that is a source.
Some of that is the belief of a lot of the pagan,
certainly the European pagans, which are more familiar with, you know,
that they have a they believe they're more connected with nature than than others
because of that.
I think this is interesting.
So let me ask you this.
You've read quite a bit and you talked about the oldest known story
that we know of, like that we this doesn't mean it's the first story ever.
It's the first story we have evidence to show.
And I think that's interesting.
What because you you have a keen interest in knowing more about the Abrahamic religions and stuff.
I mean, just like, you know, I do, of course, I came out of believing in these things.
Did you were you once a Christian?
No, no, that's how I sort of started.
So my parents were very well, my mom was very religious.
And we went to a church school when I was young.
And I remember being in the first year of that school, five,
and arguing with the priest who was there saying God didn't create the universe.
It was made out of rocks.
And he said to me, well, what made the rocks?
And I said, well, smaller rocks.
He said, but what made those?
And I thought at that point, I thought, I'm going to come back one day and prove you wrong.
You know, you've started something.
And now it's all his fault.
See, when I was five,
having a priest tried to convince me, God pray the universe.
That's amazing, though.
I'm glad you had that keen curiosity on wanting to figure it out.
Let me ask you this.
With you knowing these Indo-European or if you will,
proto-European mythologies that go all the way back in time
as far as we can stretch and prove.
What have you noticed with the Abrahamic religions?
They're definitely borrowing going on, obviously.
We know that, for example, Genesis is borrowing from the Enuma Elish.
We know that they're borrowing flood myths.
We know they're borrowing the Mesopotamian Apkalu and other deities that are there
with their divine, strange, powerful, godlike creatures,
which I just personally read Genesis 6 and I see that there's some odd beings, if you will.
This is not just humans.
These are definitely divine creatures of some sort.
That really is important, I think, in connecting this and realizing
if you try to make that a human source in the Abrahamic Genesis myth,
because their myth is there.
Like, that's where the beginning of their story starts.
If you notice that those are divine creature beings, powerful
beings like they are in the Mesopotamian myth,
or they are maybe in the proto-European myth,
do you see connections in the story in some way just changed?
See, that's the thing that fascinates me, because there is no obvious connection
for someone who's likely in today's Abrahamic religions.
I can't see any obvious connection, and that's something that interests me.
Where are these connections?
Now, the proto-Indo-Europeans, as they spread out, they went down,
one branch went down to Iran, into Persia and then into India.
And then the Greeks actually visited Iran's courts, took some of
that proto-Indo-European belief and brought it back,
as well as having their original stuff.
So that's what I got quite a mixed reason.
But I do know, then, that some of the imagery used in the Persian courts
then ended up in the temple walls within Israel.
And you've got to ask, why is Persian religious imagery in Jewish temples?
That now, either there is a young Persian lad who'd like to be a graffiti
and did a really good job, or more likely, the cultures combined.
Yeah, and say some of the stories, one of the ones I tell on the channel
is about God's wife.
That's one of the most common ones, Asherah, you know, God have a wife.
And where did that come from?
You realise the Canites had a whole, a whole pantheon, a huge pantheon.
In fact, I can't even tens and tens of gods.
And I'd love to be able to investigate that and see,
actually, where did they come from?
Which ones are those aligned proto-Indo-European gods?
Because that would allow me, you know, to go by a Mesopotamia.
I also have a Cal God creation story, by the way.
So, yeah, I'd like to find that group, because to me, everything has a source.
And it just feels it would be odd for the Abrahamic religion source
not to be significantly influenced by the proto-Indo-Europeans.
That just, I can't understand how that could happen.
That will not happen.
In India, I know that they view the cow as sacred.
Is this some, is there a genealogical connection to what you think of the cow creation myth?
Well, in some of the creation myths, they don't kill the cow.
But some creation myths, they do kill the cow.
Some they don't.
So in the Rig Veda, they don't.
This is of Isherah's, I can't remember the name, I'll talk my head.
Rig Veda is not my strongest subject.
But yeah, that they sacrifice a person to create the parts of the world from that.
But they talk about creating different types of cows.
So specifically talking about creating
particular cows with particular teeth and in its jaws, which I find quite interesting.
So there must be been something going on that the cow was really important.
And in fact, here's the creation myth.
It must have been, you know, it's a source for leather, it's a source of milk,
a source for meat, and it must have been relatively easy to keep fingers.
It's just sticking in the fields, I believe.
I'm sure farmers have a harder job than that.
But basically that's that's what you're doing.
Yeah, so yeah, I'm not sure.
But those are the things I like to understand why and why are there those differences?
And I mean, it's quite interesting.
So Gaomart, so from the Zoroastrianism side of things, you were familiar with Zoroastria.
They actually rewrote the creation myth because he didn't believe it.
But he found that his subjects wouldn't allow that because it was so inherent to them.
And so he sort of remythralized it.
And the only is it after Zoroastria didn't die down a bit.
It was mysticized, going back to almost what it was in the first place.
Wow. Oh, man.
OK, this is awesome, man.
I really enjoy this.
This is this is great.
Do you know, you talk about the sun being pulled across the sky
by the horns of the deer.
There are other mythologies that have kind of the sun being dragged across the sky.
Dr.
Robert and Price, I got to get you hooked up with him because he's like I call him Santa Claus.
He's actually like my dad, right?
Like he wants to adopt me.
He's just such a great, great guy and he knows a lot of information.
He talks about the story of Joshua and a good friend of mine who has a YouTube channel.
That goes by dragons in Genesis.
I definitely want to hook you up with him, too.
He's a really good guy named Jason folks, F O U X.
And he talks about how this mythology of Joshua, when he when he holds his hands up in the sky,
the sun stands still.
Well, there's another narrative and it's not in the canon that we have, but it is Jewish lore where.
Um, Esau, the red bearded Esau, the wild man, Jacob's brother, who was the hunter,
gatherer ends up fighting if I'm not mistaken.
Um, one of the characters in the,
the enuma, a leash, if I'm not mistaken, no, no, no, I'm sorry.
Who was the name of the guy at the Tower of Babel?
The King, I can't even think of his name.
I know who you mean, so that's an interesting story because people, in first time,
that's got something to do with Easter and it doesn't, um, they call you a Nimrod.
I think it is Nimrod, yes.
So Nimrod and Esau battle it out.
And Nimrod comes from other mythologies as well, from what I understand.
He's not like, it doesn't start with the Bible, but, um, they fight.
If I'm not mistaken, or Esau's fighting someone else, something happens where he's
like, Hey, hold on, um, maybe it's Jacob when Jacob's wrestling the angel of the
Lord and the angel of the Lord ends up popping his hip out.
And he finally is like, hold on, uh, I need to go.
The angel of the Lord says, listen, I got to go and move the sun across the sky.
If I don't, it won't go.
And it's like, it's like, where does this come from?
So yeah, yeah, this is, yeah, lots of myths are like, so the, the
Norse myths have wolves that pull the sun and the moon and, and come
Ragnarok, which is the end of the world myth for the North.
When the bulls eats the sun.
Okay.
You, okay.
So we have to stop here for a second because this is so powerful.
Um, I just watched a movie and you probably have seen it.
It's on Netflix.
It's about the war between the Germanic people and the Romans.
And it's a recent episode with the super hot girl.
I mean, she, oh, she's just beautiful, bro.
She's got like a paint on her face.
Have you seen it?
Uh, Barbarians, you're probably referring to.
Yeah, I think so.
I watched, I'm quite panicky when it comes to realism and I get, yeah.
So it's, I've heard it's not quite what she's painting, but it's, yeah.
Yeah.
In this, in this movie, though, on this show, it taught, they talk about the,
the end and how the Romans believe that the wolf, uh, what was it?
The end, what would the wolf do at the end in the Roman story?
I, if I'm not mistaken.
Well, one minute, which are you talking?
I don't, because there's stories that I don't know.
I just know that the native people in this, in this show, the native people,
the Germans that the Romans were going and bullying and causing such a hard
time with and making them pay money and things that they just couldn't,
they just couldn't survive.
Right.
They had a myth, the Germans, that the show says, and I don't know how accurate
this is, that the wolf would be the one you need to fear at the end.
The wolf would be the destroyer.
Generally, so yes.
So that, because a lot of the Germanic myth went to the Nordic myth and we have
that reasonably well documented.
It has a lot of Christian bars in it, which is a whole new show.
So, yeah, no, Loki, who you may have heard of, who was a blood brother of Odin.
Loki, who is known for being a bad kind of deity.
He, his child was Fendria, the wolf.
And Fendria could eat anyone who was a very terrifying animal.
And so the gods wanted to keep him under control.
And the only way they could do that is tear, who was the sky god to deus putter.
He at the time said, OK, Fendria, I'm going to practice biting you, but you can
escape. And Fendria said, I don't trust you.
Put your arm in my mouth.
And then if I can't escape, I'm going to bite your arm off.
And so the gods actually tied him up properly so he couldn't escape.
And tear lost his arm.
And it may be that he's lost his place in the pantheon at that time because
Thor becomes a sky god.
We don't quite know.
But Frey also took over from the theater rather than Thor.
Anyway, there's a bit of a complex mix because Odin then comes along,
which then there's a whole load of thought on that, too.
So the pantheon had a bit of a mix.
But yes, that story of the wolf ending the world.
And yeah, then it came from Loki, who is known for fire,
because his children were really called after fire.
His father was named after fire.
So it had air around him.
Let me ask you about the Ragnarok or the end for the
whose eschatology is this that we're talking about, you know, the Nordic.
What what were they envisioning?
I mean, obviously, the Judeo-Christian
perception of the end is the world will end in fire.
Or at least some type of cataclysmic event is supposed to happen.
What did they believe the what would happen in the end?
So it's had a bit of a battle.
Well, the gods dying in their own little ways.
Thor gets killed by the world serpent.
So there's a serpent in Norse myth that encompasses the world
to keep the ocean sort of in.
And so he breaks free and Thor kills him.
But in the same breath, the serpent kills Thor.
Odin gets swallowed by the wolf.
But yeah, at the end, once it's all over, the couple of gods survive.
But then there's rain for three years.
I think it is or the night time of three years.
And yeah. And then after that, the world looks as though it's normal again.
But. But by normal, I mean, it's like
paradise and all calm.
But there's an ending to the Velospa, which is the poem in the poetic edda,
which is the primary manuscript for a lot of these stories.
And the ending has that.
There's a sort of a dragon that lives under the roots of the world tree
because there's a tree called the igdoseal, which all the realms are attached to.
The dragon lives there, comes out and it's literally the last time is it?
Oh, and it flies across the world.
And you know, oh, so is it all over?
What happens? And that's where it ends.
But we don't know the last poem has been added by Christians.
Because it's Christian monks who documented the Nordic sagas and poems.
So we don't know how much influence they've had, whether they've added these lines
just to make it look like that.
So there's a lot of evidence of Christians adding.
So there's two books in Norse myth, if you don't know, or Nordic history.
So you've got the poetic edda and the prose edda.
The poetic edda is a copy of poems.
And because they're poems, we have a reasonable belief they are very accurate
because if you change a poem, it no longer meets its rules.
So you say, oh, that poem doesn't rhyme or whatever.
Someone must have altered it.
But the prose edda, which has a lot of the glue to combine these
misdegener was written by a Christian monk called Snowy Sturluson.
And it does look like he had significant
editorial liberty in the production of that prose edda
and actually creates whole stories that are definitely Christian
or conversion tools to allow pagans to go to Christianity.
So we have to so it isn't beyond measure to have a poem
that may have been altered to add that twist to it.
So we have to go and subscribe to his channel, please.
I'm not even kidding you.
Like everyone needs to go to John's channel and check him out.
John, this is this has been so far an amazing show, honestly.
I've been playing the game or actually beat the game God of War.
Have you played that game?
No, I don't play consoles really.
I just read. OK.
I just, you know, I know about the the snake that you're talking about
that holds the the waters in.
I played as the the main character in this.
What is his name?
He fights the gods.
I got a little bit more, huh?
Well, in the game God of War, there's a main character out of war.
I can't believe I can't think main character. Yeah.
Precoce Precoce. OK.
Yes, I have a route somewhere.
Precoce, do you know?
Do you know Kratos Kratos?
Let me let me share with you the image.
I'm going to share everybody this body with paint stripes on it.
Is that yes?
Yes. I'm aware of the cover of the game.
Yes. So this guy right here,
does he play any type of character in mythology?
Or is this just a character invented for the video game?
Probably invented for the video game.
The name doesn't ring a bell.
So it sounds like it's got proto European ties
because of the nature of the word, but it could also be Greek.
I don't know. Yes, yes.
It's interesting because that actually.
That game takes us into like it talks about Loki.
It talks about these other characters.
And what about the Thor movies?
I mean, I know that they're they're just movies,
but it gives people in the world a very
basic interest in these narratives,
but in a very watered down and very Hollywood style version.
One percent accurate, these are very entertaining.
As I say, Thor isn't a God of thunder.
Nowhere in the in the Eddas does he produce light in a thunder.
Nowhere Zeus, though, is a sky god and a God of thunder.
We hold Jupiter holds a lightning bolt as well in some things.
Yeah. And Perkinus, which is fusion in Nordic myth,
is the is the cognate, so that would be that.
Wow. Now, do me a favor,
because I've never interviewed anybody who comes with this
point of view that you're bringing.
What are some of the alternate theories competing
with the ideas that you side with?
So, like, for example, with Proto, the Proto Europeans,
I've heard Indo-Europeans, I've heard there's different thoughts,
but are they fringe?
Are they just not?
Is there OK?
So as I said, it used to be arguments over where it sourced
towards and in Natalia or whether it was the Russian steps.
Well, DNA evidence now overwhelmingly supports Russian steps
for the language.
So the Proto-Indo-Europeans weren't a culture, it was a language.
So people spoke Proto-Indo-European.
But the thing is, if you've got a wheel and a horse and a wagon
and a chariot and you can find better and fight better,
you influence more.
And so people who wanted to talk to the Proto-Indo-Europeans
to get the wheel and the horse would have to speak their language.
And so there was multiple reasons why that spread out.
So that was one of that really has no grounds.
Before we had this understanding of Proto-Indo-European as well,
it was thought that maybe the Chinese or the East Asia influenced
the Proto-Indo-European population came over.
But again, DNA analysis and language just doesn't support that.
The only anti-Proto-Indo-European stuff is
those Abrahamic type religions or people in other religions.
But certainly there is a lot of resentment by people who are really
into, let's say, the Nordic or old ways or paganism against,
especially the Roman Catholic Church Christians, because in England,
anyway, there was almost genocide, you could call it,
from the Roman Catholic Church to pagans in England.
And you don't hear that in history.
You don't hear about all the death and the sacrifices and all four stuff.
So that's why I want to understand
how did the Roman Catholic Church do that?
And yeah, there's a whole heap of politics there and how the Roman Empire
then was changing at the time.
Yeah, that's the reason why I'm sort of like to understand
why did the Abrahamic religion do that thing?
There was a really bad God in the Old Testament.
He turned into a really nice God in the New Testament, which is odd.
Anyway, and I don't know, you know, Jordan Peterson, a psychologist,
he said that mistake the Western society ever did was turn the Old Testament
God into a New Testament God because it doesn't help people
do what they need to do to have a good life.
That's a synopsis of probably a few books worth of information by him.
So, yeah, but I'd like to understand that.
What is it that made the Abrahamic religion so popular,
Christianity so popular when we can look at it now and just see all the contradictions
and and some of the people who believe the world is like 8000 years old
or whatever he's also experienced.
I really have trouble comprehending that and that.
And I want to understand why people think like that.
That's a great point.
You know, Marcion of Sonope, he was the guy who wanted to separate
the God of the Old to the New.
I do think that's interesting.
He sees that it's not the same or at least he's not acting the same.
Let me ask you another interesting thing.
I'm sure you've heard the term you hemorrhizing or you hemorrhization.
What came to mind when you started describing these ancient religions
and these ancient deities, it makes me wonder if there was some tribesmen
who saw man who came on, who was just mighty.
I mean, a warrior who was a great hunter gatherer or somebody who led their people
and he was named Odin or some primitive name that he had.
And they honored him on such levels that when he died,
maybe they had some type of belief system that you would become
the divine or you would go to the heavens and you would you would help pull
the sun across the sky or you would be partaker in the heavenly story.
So to speak, kind of like Christians believe they'll go to heaven one day.
Do you think that these were once men?
That they have mythologized into becoming the gods?
Yeah, interesting.
So often there is no one answer.
A lot of people think, you know, there's a cause and effect,
but often there's many causes to create an effect.
So Odin is a combination of things.
But so I've got a couple of quite in depth videos on Odin and Odin.
So Odin comes from Othor, which is a which is a name
that cognates to Wode or Woden, who is the Germanic version of Odin.
And Woden comes from Woden as or Wode.
And Wode was originally, very originally the name given to the Wild Hunt myth.
So there's a myth called the Wild Hunt, which is at least 8000 years old,
or we believe to be, where there's a possession of the dead going through the sky
and there's a thing chasing it.
OK, and that whole group was known as the Wode in Proto-Indo-European.
So in Proto-Indo-European times, we also didn't
we had gone away from personifying gods.
We thought gods are spirits and demons rather than people.
So we saw this imaginative spiritual entity rushing through the sky
with the wind chasing the dead.
Maybe when there was a storm up or a gale, they thought, oh, my God,
it's it's like the dead are coming.
Well, that that created Woden, that's all the name Woden.
However, things like the one eye myth.
So so Odin gave his eye to get knowledge
and people go on about that.
I couldn't put too much effort on that because he gave up a lot of things to get knowledge.
He hung himself from the tree, for example, to get knowledge.
But there are a lot of characters in history with one eye that has that.
Alexander the Great, I believe, had one one eye.
You know, there's lots of Roman generals in the Germanic.
Some Germanic leaders had one eye and they were well documented.
I think this this wode creature wouldn't have had one eye because,
the wode creature came from a in effect, a number of animals to a sort of a man
eating horse to a man riding a horse to a man with a horse.
Because that's what Odin is.
Odin has his this horse Slepnir, a naked horse that cares around chaotically
and Othor is Norse name.
You've got to get quite complicated there.
That can mean.
So when Odin William V, he said, or Odin Honir and Luthor,
depending on what version of the story, created man in Nordic myths of trees.
And Odin, you would have thought would have given Othor,
which is a name for movement or breath.
Sometimes people think as, but actually Honir gave Othor
and that really confused people as breath.
But we actually worked out that Othor actually means could mean movement.
It makes a lot more sense to give someone movement.
But just so.
Yeah, there's just many different causes to why these.
Names came up and how they were created and their being.
So there's possibly some elements of humanisation
within those stories, but there's certainly, I don't think
for the physical attributes, but I don't think they're there for the.
General creation of the being.
Right. OK, this is interesting.
First of all, that's probably how we love the conversation.
Yeah, about the breath thing, though,
we do have Yahweh or at least the God of the Genesis account
breathing, giving life into Adam, which, in effect, gives him movement.
So I don't know if it needs to be one or the other.
Just throwing it out there, it could be.
But I know that he breathes life into Adam.
From what I understand, also, like there's some African tribes,
even to this day, that when a father goes to pass down,
kind of like, all right, it's your time to shine, son.
They put their foreheads to one another and the son opens his mouth
and the father opens his mouth and he takes a.
And the son
breathes in his father's breath and it's like, huh.
So, you know, this is interesting.
Also, Jesus, Jesus gets his twelve disciples.
He appears to them in the room.
And I think this is in the Gospel of John
and it says that he breathes the Holy Spirit onto them.
So I don't know if this stems back to what you might be mentioning here.
I don't know. I'm just talking about the same myth.
But I mean, I think that's a common idea.
Yeah, because three gods, they gave it.
I think in the end they gave movement breath and.
Sort of a movement, breath and thought.
Well, I think I translated it as they did.
No one's really sure of genitals.
I think it was there was a thing.
Yeah, they get so which seems like very useful things to have for everyone.
Yeah.
Um, let me mention the the the you called it the hunt, the wild hunt.
There is a video game that I know you don't care about video games,
but there's a game that I've played called The Witcher, which is.
That's a TV show I have watched.
That's the that's a great TV show.
The game goes way deeper, but of course, doesn't go into the
the graphics, the show does and stuff.
But I played the game and I I exhausted the game
and they believe in werewolves in the game.
Now, tell me how accurate this is to the idea of the mythologies.
If you have any of this information, werewolves,
they believed in like, of course, which is which is common.
I mean, even the Bible talks about witches.
They believed in like these few strange type of creatures that.
Uh, I'd have to pull up some of the creatures from the game
just because it's interesting.
I wonder how accurate Witcher three creatures.
So a lot of those are more middle age types.
I mean, they were around, but they're not documented very well.
OK, one thing people sometimes forget is that in the middle ages,
the world was quite a different place.
OK, and they didn't have fresh water and fresh food.
OK, so what they had to do is they ate
moldy bread and drunk a lot of beer because that wasn't like to go off.
Now, if you spend all day eating moldy bread
with fungus on it and drinking beer, what's happens to your thought process?
Yeah, probably true.
And without doubt, there's possibly an element of that
which helped create some of the more medieval type stories
where you see these things come in.
Do they believe in vampires?
It was at a middle age thing as well.
Probably, yeah, I mean, there are elements of it.
But, yeah, it's about again, it's probably down.
They may have, but it wasn't documented.
Right. The idea probably existed,
but not in the the modern sort of imagery we have of it.
Others, I don't know, which is with pointy hats and room six.
A lot of that is very 18th century where people have written stories
and people have imagined that rather than what it really was
hundreds of years before. Interesting.
Man, this is such a fascinating conversation.
I know that anyone watching this should find this very entertaining
and really enjoy this.
I just there's so many things that makes me want to look at the Abrahamic religion
trying to find something. Yeah.
Exactly. That's what I speak to Dr.
Kariad, how I found your channel is just trying to work out more of this.
Give me some clues that I can investigate.
What are some of the things you personally are looking into
right now that are making you investigate and question things
and like wonder what's going on? Like, what are you into right now?
What am I into right now?
So doing a lot more work on the development of the Nordic characters.
And there's a show called American Gods by Neil Gaiman that he's got a book out.
A few people asked me who are those gods?
So I've done a bit of work on those.
The lockdown that's happened in the UK, we're quite heavily locked down now.
It has meant what do I do in my spare time?
And I've discovered storytelling.
So I like listening to stories, but I never realised they're actually people who did it.
And I've actually found a load of groups on Facebook with people telling storytellers
and I've become friends with one of them and I'm interviewing him.
But he is introduced with a whole load of stories
from his perspective of British mythology that I wasn't aware of.
And that's amazing.
So there may be going on.
The Mabinogion, which is like the British equivalent of the Roman and Greek myths.
It's just amazing.
Many of the fairy tales you hear come from that.
So there's that too.
Dr. Kerr has asked me to interview him again because it would just seem to have
some really great conversations.
I've always received really positively, especially because I don't know anything
really about God or Jesus, you get him quite well.
It's like, yeah, but there's nothing off limits.
I'd love to learn the Rig Veda a lot more and I'm doing a lot more study
on Proto-Indo-European and I'm trying to learn Greek.
But apart from that, life's quite quiet, to be honest.
That's that.
Well, I'm glad I want to interview you more as well, of course,
to talk about these topics because I don't bring.
Usually we talk about Abrahamic religion, right?
So I'm trying to do more and bring more.
And these fascinate me because there's a church that recently opened up
about 30 minutes from my house.
Someone was like, there's this weird.
This is how they describe it.
There's this weird white supremacist church, right?
And I'm like, white supremacist, what's the name of this thing?
I want to find out what's going on here, right?
Well, of course, most of members are white, right?
So I was like, OK, well, what's up?
Had this weird symbol in the language is weird on the sign.
Like it's not English.
And I'm like, so I started looking it up and sure enough, it is a pagan church.
They bought a they bought the Christian church that was there.
And they said, look, we're going back to our roots.
We're trying to rediscover our ancestors' gods.
And it was an interesting thing.
I started reading where, but they do tie it into the idea
that they're Caucasian connection.
You see where you see where they go wrong?
And now don't get me wrong.
I'm sure that probably a lot of the people who did worship these
were Caucasian to some extent in their in their in their regions at some points.
But correct me if I'm wrong. I mean, is it is it?
There's no mention of race in the Nordic myths.
You know, it wasn't a thing.
I mean, the the changing of white skin is a reasonably recent
proposition in human evolution.
Less than 20,000 years old.
I mean, everybody was.
Like the non was non white, you know, if you have a color
other than the white skin, it just didn't exist till 20,000 years ago.
Yeah. And Portuguese Europeans, as I say, are is a language
and our culture is not a tribe.
I mean, although people are tribal of a very tribal back then,
and no doubt they found, you know, people of similar
attributes tend to stick together.
You find that's just a natural human phenomenon.
I don't think there's any.
Particular hate for any particular color of the skin, right?
Right. Makes no sense.
You know, with the.
Yeah, they wouldn't like people for messing with their land
or stealing things, not for not just because of that.
Yes, yes, I thought that the I thought that Africans
were in Africa during this time, and they were evolving in a separate region.
And this is why they so.
So there's different theories on the out of Africa theory.
Yes, some people don't even believe it.
And I certainly know people who are pagans who don't want to believe it.
Right.
So I think a summary of the history of human race, as I know it.
In two minutes.
So homo sapiens, first homo sapiens was probably around three hundred
thousand years ago, found in Morocco, the first evidence of them.
Then there have been others found sort of early in times of that.
But we have found the occasional homo sapien bones in
around the edge of the Mediterranean dating to maybe up to 180,000 years,
100,000 years.
So obviously, homo sapiens left Africa, but they never seem to establish
a settlement or a tribe for any length of time.
But 70,000 years ago or thereabouts, a group left and went to Australia
via the coast of India and and the world.
So the world was a lot had bigger ice caps then.
So with bigger ice caps to sea levels lower, so you could almost literally walk
to Australia, you know, the Philippines and Indonesia, all those
that was dry land all the way through, not on the islands.
So and the average average used to go to Australia, the tip of it
about 50,000 years ago and by 40,000 years, they were
all around Australia.
And that so about 6,000 years ago, you were what would come to Europeans
left Africa and then headed into Europe.
And the earliest we got us 40,000 years ago, a cave called the Kentish cave.
Kentish cabins in Cornwall was now calling in England.
But again, that was big land mass in England was attached to Europe
as one big continent, no English channel or anything like that.
And we'll see.
And not much happened genealogical wise until, as I say, the end of the ice age.
So there was a big ice age about 20,000 years ago, thought the human race
close to abrupt uncertainty in Eurasia.
But it was just after that that then it looks like white skin pigment developed.
Because it was a cold environment and you want to get energy.
White skin works better than dark skin in where there's less sun.
Right. Right. Right.
It's the I get it.
It retains more vitamin D without the without the sun.
Exactly.
Because there was less sun.
And that's how it develops about that.
And then you had these younger jars, which is another sudden catastrophe.
We haven't sort of quite worked out what was that, whether that was a meteorite
hitting or volcanoes going off or a combination of all of them ice caps melting.
Like, yeah, and then we end up to where we are today in terms of.
How the world is segregated.
Yeah, all cool.
So give or take after the end of the melting of the ice age, 13,000 years,
let's just say, ago, approximately from that point is where we have the
distinctions between Asian and yes, however, as I say, from the group
that left to Australia 70,000 years ago, they contain the DNA.
They never hit mixed with any other humans, apart from a small group in Papua New Guinea.
And so the DNA of aborigines is as close to the humans who left Africa
70,000 years ago as Sub-Saharan Africans.
Wow.
Where the DNA of the rest of the Eurasians, you can tell, come from the second group
and there's a distinction there.
And so some of the DNA traits of the Eurasians don't appear in Sub-Saharan Africa.
Interesting.
Guys, what do you think about this?
Tell me we didn't go into some amazing stuff.
I really enjoy this, John.
We got to do more.
There's so many gods you can go into.
You can get into some clever, interesting rabbit trails, I'm sure.
And I don't know if, you know, I've heard theories about the shamans and Santa.
OK, there's some interesting stuff.
Does that go into any of this talk?
So it's just been quite a bit of debate about this.
Actually, you could go to a famous professor of Nordic studies,
or used to teach Nordic studies, who said that Santa Claus wasn't related to oathing.
And then they put up a load of PhDs from the Nordic countries and said,
hey, we have had Santa Claus-type figure in oathing long, long before you taught Santa Claus.
And so it actually brings up an interesting point that some academics aren't necessarily
aware of the religious aspects of what they're teaching, only the
the archaeological finds and the books, but not necessarily the belief systems.
And so that was that was quite interesting.
But yes, and there is some or some suggestion that the
shamans integrated with the Nordic cultures quite a lot.
And that's particularly evident in Iceland.
So there was a discovery of the largest hall in Iceland,
the Viking era that they'd seen.
I think there's one slightly bigger in Norway,
but this biggest one outside of Scandinavia.
Nice. And they looked in there and they found that the Vikings
brought shamans along to do all their bone carving and all the jewelry making
and things like that.
So they were really reliant on them for particular skilled labor.
Interesting.
So there would have been some beliefs that they would have seen and probably bounced off of.
Guys, gals, this was a shotgun interview.
I mean, we talked about this and we were just going to go with the flow.
And this was really interesting, man.
But yeah, it's right because this is an overwhelming channel.
Well, look, it is.
And I thought, what do you want to talk to me?
But yeah, it's been a really good chat day.
Really nice to just have a casual chat about everything.
Well, thank you.
Yeah, it it I'm trying to make it a mythology channel.
Of course, don't get me wrong.
I came out of Christianity, grew up as a Christian boy.
And as I became a man, my doubts became
stronger than my faith.
My believing in things I cannot see, my belief in things that I don't have evidence for.
And so I started to be curious and the Christian apologists that are out there
want you to be here.
Oh, it's OK that you're curious because we have an answer for all of these problems.
And who I started looking into this more and said, yeah,
no, you don't.
You have a created, manufactured answer that suits your needs.
But let's forget about carbon dating.
Let's forget about science.
Let's forget about anything that can help develop and further us.
No, no, no, because it's not accurate.
That's not true, you know, because it doesn't work in your favor.
And because it doesn't work in your favor, don't believe it.
This book is your interpretive glasses.
You have to look through them.
And so I did that and it started off with questioning if Jesus even existed at all.
And now I, you know, I'm I'm agnostic.
Look, I can see that there was a guy.
I also can see why mythicism makes a lot of sense.
And so I'm in after interviewing all sorts of people.
I'm tossed between the two ideas.
However, I want to move beyond just this.
I want to talk about Odin.
I want to talk about Thor.
So, yeah, we're, we're, we're, let's see the light for this one.
Yeah, because I say I like stories about stories and, you know,
all the stories I tell about gods are made up.
You can just tell them they're all made up.
You know, they all have a common, this common source.
What's it? Yeah, but this is great.
Guys, gals, go to John's YouTube channel.
It's in the description.
You guys make sure you subscribe.
Definitely check it out.
And John, this was this was more than I expected.
So it's been a real pleasure to be with you at any time.
You too. And never forget, you know, the story of stories,
but a great story teller channel.
We are MythVision.
