Aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
autopop needs to stop
autopop needs to stop
autopop needs to stop
The Myth of Moses
In the vast landscapes of ancient Egypt, where pyramids kissed the sky and the Nile River
flowed with life, a tale began that would shape the destiny of a nation and influence
three of the world's major religions.
Amid political tension, the reigning pharaoh felt threatened by the ever-growing population
of the Israelites.
What was his drastic solution?
All newborn Hebrew boys were to be cast into the Nile.
Moses' mother, unwilling to lose her son, crafted a clever plan.
She placed Moses in a basket and hid it among the river reeds.
Fate or divine intervention led Pharaoh's daughter to this very spot.
Moved by the infant's cries, she decided to adopt him.
And so, Moses, a Hebrew by birth, grew up in the opulence of Pharaoh's palace.
As Moses matured, he became increasingly aware of the harsh treatment his Hebrew kin endured.
When he intervened in a violent dispute, it resulted in the death of an Egyptian, forcing
Moses to flee Egypt for the rugged terrains of Midian.
In the solitude of Midian, while shepherding flocks, Moses stumbled upon an unusual site,
a bush, engulfed in flames, yet remained unscathed.
This burning bush became the conduit for God's message.
Moses was chosen to liberate the Israelites from Egyptian bondage.
Found with divine purpose, when stuttering Moses and his brother Aaron first approached
Pharaoh to request the release of the Israelites, a display of divine power was in order.
In a dramatic showdown in Pharaoh's court, Aaron cast down Moses' staff, and it miraculously
transformed into a serpent.
Not to be outdone, Pharaoh's magicians, using their own secret arts, replicated the feet,
turning their staffs into snakes as well.
However, the serpent born of Moses' staff swiftly devoured those of the magicians, a
symbolic victory that showcased the superior power of the God of Israel.
The Pharaoh was stubborn, leading to a series of devastating plagues, tend to be precise,
ranging from the Nile turning to blood to the death of the firstborns.
Eventually, Pharaoh relented and the Exodus commenced.
Pursued by the regretful Pharaoh and his army, the Israelites faced the seemingly insurmountable
barrier of the Red Sea, but with a divine gesture from Moses.
The waters parted.
They walked on dry land, only for the waters to return, thwarting the pursuing Egyptian
forces.
In the Sinai Desert, Moses received the Ten Commandments of Top Mount Sinai, a moral code
that would shape the ethical foundation for generations.
This mountaintop experience was transformative in that Moses' face would shine like the
sun.
However, the journey was riddled with challenges, including the people's occasional lapses
into idolatry, like with the infamous golden calf.
While the Israelites were wandering in the desert, they encountered snakes, but these
snakes put them in a much more distressing scenario.
The Israelites, in a moment of frustration and impatience, spoke against God and Moses.
In response, God sent venomous serpents among the people, resulting in many deaths.
Recognizing their transgression, the Israelites repented and pleaded with Moses to intercede
on their behalf.
Instructed by God, Moses crafted a bronze serpent and mounted it on a pole.
Those bitten had but to gaze upon this bronze serpent to be healed, a symbol of God's mercy
and the power of divine intervention.
Despite his leadership, due to certain transgressions, Moses was informed he wouldn't enter the Promised
Land.
As the Israelites approached their destination, Moses climbed Mount Nebo after passing off
the leadership to Joshua.
From its peak, he gazed upon the land he'd never set foot in, and then, surrounded by
clouds of mystery, Moses departed from the world.
Why is Moses Important?
The purpose of this documentary.
Moses is not just an incredibly important biblical figure in terms of theology and the
biblical narrative.
He is arguably the keystone that holds the Bible together.
We're told that Jesus came to fulfill every jot and tittle of the Mosaic Law, the Ten
Commandments and other rules that came from the Exodus accounts.
The author of the Gospel of Matthew saw Jesus as the new Moses.
Before Jesus, Moses was arguably the most important biblical figure.
Jesus had to be bigger and better than Moses, and to emulate his story, Moses and the supposed
events of Exodus from Egypt were the foundations upon which the rest of the Bible and Christianity
were built.
But what if Moses was largely or entirely a myth?
One could say that this realization would cause the edifice of Judaism, Christianity,
and Islam to crumble to rubble like the walls of Jericho.
Not Moses, what are the Abrahamic faiths, but a castle in the air devoid of a solid
base?
Another myth of Moses.
When we talk about the myth of Moses, we're not being merely provocative, but expressing
a reality about how Moses has functioned through the ages for many cultures.
And to understand how his myth has influenced Judaism and its descendant traditions, we
must look at another story, one you won't find in your Bible.
The oldest story of Moses that we can positively identify its place and date of creation comes
not from the Holy Land, but from the alleged birthplace of the Great Man.
The Nile River Delta is fertile ground for both the seeds of plants and the seeds of
stories.
It was in a folk tradition emerging after the conquest of Alexander the Great that gives
us another tale of Moses and his arrival in Palestine.
This story was almost lost if it were not preserved by Hecateus of Abdera and paraphrased
in Diodorus Sicilis' Library of History 43.
And the most outstanding and active among them banded together in journey to Greece
and certain other regions.
Their leaders were notable men, chief among them, Daneus, but the greater number settled
in what is now called Judeo, which is not far distant from Egypt and was in that time
utterly desolate.
The colony was headed by a man named Moses, outstanding both in his wisdom and courage.
On taking possession of the land he founded, besides other cities, one that is now the
most renowned of all called Jerusalem.
In addition, he established the temple that they hold in chief federation, instituted
their form of worship and ritual, drew up the laws related to other political institutions
and ordered them.
He also divided the peoples into twelve tribes, since this is regarded as the most perfect
number and corresponds to the number of months that make up a year.
He picked out the men of most refinement and with the greatest ability to head the entire
nation and appointed them priests.
And he ordained that they should occupy themselves with the temple and the honor and sacrifice
offered to their gods, the same men he appointed to be judges in all major disputes and entrusted
to them the guardianship of laws and custom.
Their law giver was careful also to make provisions for warfare and required the young men to
cultivate manliness, steadfastness, and generally the endurance of every hardship.
He led out military expeditions against the neighboring tribe and after annexing much
land appointed to them, assigned equal allotments to private citizens and greater ones to the
priests in order that they, by virtue of receiving more ample revenue, might be undistracted and
apply themselves continually to the worship of God.
The most common people were forbidden to sell their individual plots, lest there be some
who for their own advantage should buy them up and by oppressing the poorer classes bring
them on a scarcity of manpower.
We required those that dwelt in the land to rear children and since their offspring could
be cared for a little cost, the Jews were from the start a populous nation.
Such is the count of Hecateus of Miletus, actually Abdura, in regard to the Jews.
There are some familiar elements here.
There is the mention of the 12 tribes of Israel, Moses as law giver, and the conquest of the
land.
But that is where the similarities end.
This Moses was not a Jew himself, but a full-blooded Egyptian and he is leaving Egypt to found
a new colony, not because he is forced out or trying to escape.
This is not an exodus and a freedom from slavery from Egyptian power, but the expansion of
it into a desolate land.
It was not the arrival into a promised land of milk and honey.
There is here no suffering in the wilderness, no plagues upon the land, no parting of the
waters.
And here, Moses is not some criminal who killed a fellow Egyptian, but a noble and courageous
leader.
It is based on a merit, rather than his brother getting a piece of the pie when it comes to
a new theocratic order.
And let's not forget, this Egyptian Moses enters into Palestine, founds its capital
city and builds its temple.
He was the one that established the tribal system, rather than saving those tribes from
bondage.
This isn't the only such colonization story the Egyptians were telling, as they also
claimed to have founded the major cities in Greece and Babylon.
In other words, these are stories of supposed Egyptian greatness, and they seem to be completely
ignorant of the Exodus tradition from Israel, let alone the particular version of the story
found in the Bible.
What is fascinating about this story is that it's independent of the story in the Tanakh.
It doesn't even seem to know the Jews had a tradition.
They were escaped slaves from Egypt.
So where did this story come from?
Well, it looks like another case of influence by the Greeks in the wake of the armies of
Alexander.
The model of colonizers leaving the motherland was a common trope in Hellenic and Hellenistic
stories of the origins of peoples.
Numerous towns and territories were founded by the children of Hercules, and their names
were given over to the regions, where they otherwise had some other etiological function.
These stories were created to explain observations of the world, even if they were grounded in
the imagination.
While the Egyptians imagine the past was also influenced by their history, and there is
yet another myth of Moses within Egyptian folklore.
According to one Egyptian priest named Manetho, there was a great trauma in his country's
past, and Moses was a key figure in that history.
Here is what Manetho had to say, as quoted by the Jewish historian Josephus.
This writer, who is undertaken to translate the history of Egypt from the sacred book,
began by stating that our ancestors came against Egypt with many tens of thousands
and gained the mastery over the inhabitants, and then he himself admitted that by later
date again they were driven out of the country, occupying what is now Judea, founded Jerusalem,
and built the temple.
Up to this point, he followed the chronicles thereafter by offering to record the legends
and current talk about the Jews.
He took the liberty of interpolating improbable tales in his desire to confuse us with a crowd
of Egyptians, who for leprosy and other maladies had been condemned, he said, for banishment
from Egypt.
Ammanophis conceived and desired to behold the God as or, one of the predecessors on
the throne had done, and he communicated his desire of his namesake Ammanophis.
Papyrus' son, who in virtue of his wisdom and knowledge of the future, was reputed
to be a partaker of the divine nature.
His namesake then replied that he would be able to see the gods if he cleansed the whole
land of lepers and other polluted persons.
The king was delighted and assembled all those in Egypt whose bodies were wasted by disease.
They numbered 80,000 persons.
These he cast into the stone quarries in the east of the Nile, there to work segregated
from the rest of the Egyptian.
Among them, Inethu adds, there were some of the learned priests who had been attacked
by leprosy.
Then this wise seer Ammanophis was filled with dread of divine wrath against him, and
the king, if the outrage done to these people should be discovered, and he added a prediction
that certain allies would join the polluted people and would take possession of Egypt
for 13 years, not venturing to make this prophecy himself to the king.
He left a full account of his writings and then took his own life.
The king was filled with despondency.
Then Inethu continues as follows, I quote his account verbatim, When the men in the
stone quarries had suffered hardship for a considerable time, they begged the king to
assign to them a dwelling-plick and a refuge, the deserted city of the shepherd of Arith.
And he consented.
According to religious tradition, this city was from earliest time dedicated to Typhon,
occupying this city and using the region as a base for revolt.
They appointed as their leader one of the priests of Yeapolis called Osarisaphis and
took an oath of obedience to him in everything.
First of all, he made it a law that they should neither worship the gods nor refrain from
any of the animals prescribed as especially sacred to Egypt, but should sacrifice consume
all alike and that they should have intercourse with none save those of their own confederates.
After framing a great number of laws like these, completely opposite to Egyptian customs,
he ordered them that their multitude of hands to repair the walls of the city and make ready
of war against King Ammanophis.
Then acting in concert with certain other priests and polluted persons like himself, he sent
an embassy to the shepherds who had been expelled by Tethmosis in the city called Jerusalem.
And setting forth the circumstances of himself and his companions in distress, he begged them
to unite wholeheartedly in an attack upon Egypt.
He offered to conduct them first to their ancestral home of Avaris, to provide their
hosts with lavish supply, to fight on their behalf whenever need arose and to bring Egypt
without difficulty under their sway.
Overjoyed at this proposal, all the shepherds in the number of 200,000 eagerly set out and
before long came to Avaris.
When Ammanophis king of Egypt learned of their invasion, he was sorely troubled, for he
recalled the prediction of Ammanophis, son of Papas.
First, he gathered a multitude of Egyptians and having taken counsel of the leading and
among them, he summoned to their presence the sacred animals which were held in greatest
reverence in the temple and gave instructions to each group of priests to conceal the images
of the gods as securely as possible.
And for his five-year-old son, Repses, he sent him away safely to his friend.
He then crossed the Nile with many as 300,000 of the previous warriors of Egypt and met
the enemy.
Instead of joining battle, he decided that he must not fight against the gods and made
a hasty retreat to Memphis.
There, he took into his charge Apis and the other sacred animals which he had summoned
to that place.
And forthwith, he sent off for Ethiopia with the whole army at the hosts of the Egyptians.
The Ethiopian king, who in gratitude for his service, had become his subject welcomed
him, maintained the whole multitude with such products of the country as were fit for human
consumption, assigned to them cities and villages sufficient for the destined period
of 13 years' banishment from the realm and especially stationed an Ethiopian army on
the frontiers of Egypt to guard King Amenophis and his followers.
Meanwhile, the Solomites, or Twillars in Jerusalem, made a descent among the polluted
Egyptians and treated the people so impiously and savagely at the domination of the shepherds
seemed like a golden age to those who witnessed the present enormities.
For not only did they set towns and villages on fire, pillaging the temples and mutilating
images of the gods without restraint, but they also made a practice of using the sanctuaries
as kitchens to roast the sacred animals which people worship.
And they would compel the priests and prophets to sacrifice and butcher the beasts, afterwards
casting the men forth naked.
It is said the priests who framed their constitution and their laws was a native of Heliopolis,
named Osarsif and after the god Osiris, worshipped it.
But when he joined the people, he changed his name and was called Moses.
13 years later, this being the destined time of exile, Amenophis, according to Minitho,
advanced from Ethiopia with a large army and joined battle against the shepherds and the
polluted people.
He defeated them, killing many and pursuing them to the frontiers of Syria.
This is certainly not the story of Moses you heard in Sunday school.
In this tale, which Josephus said was a modern folklore, a priest named Osarsif was the leader
of an enslaved leper colony.
He was himself an Egyptian, but he invited the shepherds from Jerusalem to come and
invade.
These shepherds were the Hixos, an earlier Semitic group that had ruled Egypt for about
a century.
And according to Minitho, they had already been kicked out before the rise of Osarsif.
In other words, this story is not about the Bible or the Jews.
Where did this tale of lepers ruling Egypt come from?
Why was it said to have lasted 13 years?
According to Egyptologist Jan Asman, the stories about the religious reforms of Akhenaten,
the Pharaoh who pioneered something much like monotheism, establishing a new city, Amarna.
In this city, he promoted his new cult to the Atan, the Sun Disc.
Akhenaten reduced the funding of the traditional priesthood and the Pharaoh was reviled for
his new religious movement.
On top of that, a terrible epidemic came through, which was called the Canaanite disease, adding
proof to the average Egyptian that the gods did not favor these religious reforms.
No wonder then that the statues of Akhenaten were destroyed, his name etched out from inscriptions
and his sarcophagus desecrated.
Egypt tried to forget him, but the trauma of his reforms lived on.
Take a look at this stele that was erected not long after, trying to restore the greatness
of the past and speaking of the bad times as the land being filled with surpassing suffering
or grave disease.
The temples were desolated, their holy places were in the verge of disintegration, they had
become piles of rubble, overgrown with thistles, their chapels were as if they had never been,
their temples precinct were trodden roads, the land was in grave ailment, the gods had
turned their back on this land.
If one sent soldiers to Syria to extend the frontiers of Egypt, they had no success.
If one appealed to the gods for succor, they did not come.
If one besotted goddess likewise, she came not, their hearts had grown weak in their bodies,
or they had destroyed what had been created.
These are the words of Akhenaten's own son, King Tut, and he describes his father's reign
in terms of trauma.
Look again at the story of Osar Asif.
He also instituted a new religious order focused on one god and not to worship any others.
This sounds like an echo of the reforms of Akhenaten, and how long did Akhenaten rule
in Amarna?
About 13 years, just like in the story.
But what about the lepers?
Well, leprosy was treated in the same sort by the Egyptians as did the Jews.
According to Leviticus 13-14, a leper was an unclean person separate from the divine.
So having an entire kingdom of lepers would be a sure way to say it was a godless society.
The tale of Osar Asif looks much more like the story of an Egyptian pharaoh who was reviled
and whose memory was left to rot in the imagination of the Egyptian people.
And then somehow he became known as Moses.
Why?
There is nothing in the story told by Manito that made Moses a Jew, quite the opposite.
He was an Egyptian priest and named after the god Osiris.
Only Semitic people in the story were the shepherds, that is the Hixos.
These were not Jews, even though they were said to have moved to and then invaded from
Palestine.
In fact, the name of Moses seems to be a gloss onto the original Osar Asif tale.
Manito is trying to connect this folktale to another folk figure in Egyptian imagination
and Hecateus already told us about that Moses.
It seems Manito is conflating together the brave colonists, Moses, and the leper king
Osar Asif because they both involved the Egyptian colonization, the land of Palestine and the
key figures were leaders and law givers.
In other words, there is nothing to do with the Exodus story of the Bible.
The only commonality is the name of Moses, but we already saw the Moses described by
Hecateus has nothing to do with the Moses within the pages of the Bible.
Stepping back, one has to wonder, where did Moses come from?
The Moses of Hecateus and the Moses of Exodus are so different.
Can they even be the same person?
Do they at least have the same mother?
Who is your daddy?
And what does he do?
Let's actually look at the birth of Moses again and let's see the legendary layers
unfold.
Birth Story of Moses
Alright tell me you've heard this story before.
My mother was a high priestess.
My father I knew not.
My high priestess mother conceived me.
In secret she bore me.
She sent me in a basket of rushes.
With bitumen she sealed my lid.
She cast me into the river which rose over me.
The river bore me up and carried me to Aki the water drawer.
Aki the water drawer took me as his son and reared me.
Seems like the same basic outline of the Moses story, but the author of this was not
Moses.
Oh no dear viewer.
This comes from the autobiographic inscriptions of Sargon of Akkad who ruled almost a millennium
before the exodus allegedly took place.
The fragments of this story exist in inscriptions older than any manuscript of the Moses story.
It looks like Sargon might have had company while floating down the river because other
heroic figures were also basket cases.
As far away as India in the famous epic of Mahabharata the demigod Karna was abandoned
in a little ark that is drawn out of the Genghis river by the wife of a charioteer.
Closer to Judea the twin founders of Rome, Romulus and Remus, placed in a trove and left
to float in the Tiber River, saved by landing in the branches of a fig tree and eventually
rescued by friendly animals and then later by swine herd.
How many baby heroes were getting their swimming lessons this way?
Was it really the best way to save a baby by having them float away to unknown places?
If you think these are plausible biographies then you might not be fit to be a parent.
However, if you're like me and you see them as tropes in mythical stories then you have
to ask yourself how was Moses any different?
What could make the story of Moses' birth even more mythical?
How about this?
Moses was rescued by an Egyptian goddess.
In the fan fiction written after Exodus, the gaps in the story are filled in and one detail
that had to be filled was the name of Pharaoh's daughter.
Who was this woman who found and drew Moses out of the Nile?
In the tradition preserved by Josephus and in the book of Jubilees, a book found among
the Dead Sea Scrolls, her name was Thermuthis.
That name is a form of the name of the snake deity Renunutet, often depicted sitting on
a throne.
Moses was a protector of the Pharaoh from birth to death.
Her name perhaps gives away her function, as the name Renunutet or Thermuthis comes
from the verb that means to nurse.
Perhaps then no wonder the goddess of nursing would save and nurse the infant Moses.
Oh, but the detail minded among you will point out that in Exodus 2, 7 through 9, it is not
Pharaoh's daughter who nurses the child.
But amazingly, Moses' own mother, the same is true in Jubilees 47.
And even this detail can be understood when looking at Egyptian religion at the time of
composition.
In that time, the cult of Thermuthis was combining with that of the goddess Isis.
Perhaps the most important goddess in Egyptian religion, in iconography, far more often is
it Isis that nurses a child and in those depictions of Isis nursing a babe, often the child is
found on or in a basket.
It seems then we might not have one, but two goddesses brought into the story of Moses'
birth.
Two goddesses that the Egyptians themselves had paired up.
Jewish interpreters of Isis would say she was actually Eve, the mother of all living.
So if Isis was associated with anything in Judaism, it was motherhood.
And if one goddess was going to help rescue and take care of baby Moses, why not another
and have that goddess be the quintessential mother goddess of the Pharaoh himself.
The Isis and Thermuthis goddess pairing also had one other function, saving the god Osiris.
In the ancient myth of the death and resurrection of Osiris, his body was placed in a wooden
box and thrown into the Nile, a body in a box floating down the Nile River.
That is starting to sound familiar and in depictions of that box, it is covered in growing
planets while Isis and Thermuthis work together to pull the box onto the land.
This is a striking parallel to the floating basket of Moses caught up in the reeds of
the Nile and then pulled out by the goddess, sorry, the woman named Thermuthis, according
to David Flusser and Shua Amorai Stark.
The identification of Moses' foster mother with an Egyptian goddess is but a small part
of a much larger picture.
It is an instructive expression of one of the characteristic traits of Hellenistic Jewry,
especially in that of Egypt and of its national self-awareness.
The need to survive as Jews in such a surrounding resulted in the development of specific Jewish
Hellenistic apologetics, thus the identification of an Egyptian goddess with our Pharaoh's
daughter belonging to the specific Jewish Hellenistic branch of apologetics.
This type of reaction arose from the clash between two cultures and civilization.
You might be saying, but that's not in the Bible, so it doesn't matter.
Ah, look at what this text does mean.
The person who wrote the book of Jubilees must have not only known the Exodus story,
but he must have known about Egyptian religious practices so well that he could mimic and
subvert them.
If some Jews knew the myths of other people and incorporated them into the stories of
their sacred figures, then the claim that the Jews who wrote the Torah could not do that,
that's proof that denial isn't just a river in Egypt.
Leaving aside the Judeo-Christian biases to make the Exodus story history, we have to
admit the tale looks much more like a legendary embellishment than a historical account.
Indeed, upon closer inspection, there are more strange details.
According to Exodus 2, 5-10, the daughter of the Pharaoh found the child in the Nile
River and drawing him out gave him the name Moses.
Why that name?
Because there is a Hebrew verb, Masha, that means to draw out.
So the baby was called Moshe.
This is a form of the verb, specifically the active participle, and that is strange for
two reasons.
First, why is an Egyptian princess giving a baby a Hebrew name based on the meaning of
the word in Hebrew?
The expected name of the baby should have been something in Egyptian, but even the Hebrew
doesn't make sense.
Here's a little bit of grammar to consider.
Was the child in the Nile the one doing the drawing out, or was he the one drawn out?
If it were the former case, then the child was the one doing the action.
If the latter, then it is something done to the child.
In the first case, that would be the active voice, the person does the action.
In the second case, that would be the passive voice, the action is done to the person.
In this story, it is clearly the case that the action is done to the child.
The child is drawn out of the water.
So why is he given a name based on the active instead of the passive voice?
Instead of being called Moshe, he should have been called Moshe.
There is indeed something strange with Moses' name.
Scholars and commentators have noticed this for at least a millennium.
We will come back to this later, but for now we will pause to say that the story as presented
does not make sense as history, and it has a strange plot hole.
We will dive into that plot hole.
Let's look at more of the story of Moses and see what else looks more like a legend
than a sober account of history.
Moses and the Hellenic Hero.
When it comes to what is historically likely, we already have good reason to doubt the story
of Moses' birth, but it isn't like the Moses of the Bible was anything less than legendary.
The outline of his stories, in fact, so standard there is a name for it, the Mythic Hero Archetype
or Hero Pattern.
The most famous version of the Hero Pattern was published in the early 20th century by
Fitzroy Richard Somerset, better known as Lord Raglan.
He based his model first on the story of a famous drama of a Greek king of Thebes, the
mother-loving Oedipus.
Like other legends, the story of Oedipus also involves a birth under unusual circumstances
with the infant nearly put to death but saved by chance or destiny and reared by adoptive
parents.
He then returns to his kingdom, defeats a terrible monster, rules for a time and then loses favor
with the gods, and his subjects and finally dies a mysterious death in a faraway land.
In fact, the gods personally see to his burial in a hidden place.
Look at the Hero Pattern and how well Moses matches up.
If you notice a green check on the right, then it matches in some way.
And many green checks means, without a doubt, this is the main focus.
Sometimes there's an X, which means we haven't found a match.
On the left is the pattern element.
The hero's mother is a royal virgin.
His father is a king.
Then a near relative of his mother.
Circumstances of his conception are unusual.
He is reputed to be the son of a god.
At birth an attempt is made to kill him.
He is spirited away, reared by foster parents in a far country.
We are told nothing of his childhood.
On reaching manhood, he returns or goes to his future kingdom after a victory over the
king and or a giant dragon or wild beast.
He marries a princess, often the daughter of his predecessor, becomes a king.
For a time he reigns uneventfully, prescribed laws, of course.
Later he loses favor with the gods and or his subjects.
He is driven from the throne and city.
He meets with a mysterious death, often at the top of a hill.
His children, if any, do not succeed him.
His body is not buried.
He has one or more holy sceptres.
As you can see, Moses fits the pattern almost perfectly, getting 20 of the 22 possible points.
And that is only with the biblical account.
The expansion of his story by Josephus and others makes him fit these points multiple
times.
If we compare this to other legendary figures, Moses is one of the highest scoring people
in all of ancient literature.
Oedipus fit 21 of the 22 criteria.
The Herothecius earned 20.
The God Dionysus had 19.
Romulus and Perseus both had 18.
Heracles earned 17.
Valeraphon had 16, while Jason and Zeus had 15.
Yes, this means Moses' story even more slavishly follows legendary tropes than that of Hercules.
When we apply the same scale to other biblical figures, there is no comparison.
According to Raglan, Elijah could only have been said to have earned 9 points, while Joseph
earned 12.
As for historical people, even with wild legends attached to them, they do not score so high.
Alexander the Great, who had fantastical novels devoted to him, only scored 7 points
as Raglan counted.
It's almost like real people don't have stories with so many of these elements in their biography.
Taking another dive into these heroic criteria, it is almost as if the writers of Exodus were
trying to make Moses fit the pattern on purpose.
Take his lineage.
Moses' father, Amran, is a descendant of Levi, the founding father of the tribe of Levi.
According to Exodus 6, 16-20, Amran is the grandchild of Levi.
But according to Numbers 26, 59, Moses' mother, Jacobed, was the daughter of Levi himself.
Okay, maybe the family tree of Moses is a little too similar to that in the Game of Thrones.
However, let's step past the cringiness of this marriage.
Whoever wrote this story also likely had the same sort of reaction as you did.
And in the Greek translation of Exodus 6-20, Jacobed is made to be a cousin instead of an aunt of Amran.
And yet, the older Hebrew author wanted to tell the story that way.
It's almost as if they knew that a hero needed to have such a strange family.
Take, for example, King Oedipus, his mother Jakasta, and his father Laos.
Both descendants of the founder of Thebes, Cadmus.
In this case, Laos was the great-grandson of Cadmus, while Jakasta was the great-great-granddaughter.
As Oedipus would later marry his own mother and have children there,
you are looking at a tight-knit family tree to mimic such an unusual genealogy in the case of Moses,
with an even shorter number of branches between Moses' parents than in the case of Oedipus.
And you have to think, this was a conscious decision on the part of the writer.
Or else, there were some decisions by the Levite family members that we might want to question,
to put it mildly.
We can also compare the death of Oedipus and that of Moses.
Neither go down without a long series of speeches in the play Oedipus at Colonus,
written by Sophocles, and performed in 401 BCE.
The blind king comes to a small town outside of Athens to finally die.
He makes several speeches and prophecies, sees signs from Zeus that the time has come,
and then the hero, Thasus, personally leads him to a secret place to be buried,
such that no one else would know where Oedipus' body was,
and thus provides supernatural protection to Athens.
Now, look at Moses.
In his dying days, he is told by God that he would not enter the Promised Land and would soon die.
Moses then gives a long closing speech.
The Song of Moses in Deuteronomy 32 makes a final set of prophecies,
and then dies in a hidden place under divine supervision.
There seems to be a template followed between these death scenes,
but we shouldn't claim to see genetic connections.
Thematic connections, definitely.
Structural similarities, sure.
History, let's back up a bit and look again at the larger pattern and some trends.
What is telling here is that the hero pattern of Raglan
is a better fit to mythical figures in Greece and Roman stories
than those from Egypt or the Middle East.
Southwest Asian figures like Gilgamesh do not score so high as Moses, for example.
This hero archetype is especially Hellenistic.
Even other biblical figures are not so like these Greek heroes as Moses.
Is it just a coincidence that Moses is portrayed like a Hellenic hero?
The numbers suggest a big no.
Now the parts of the pattern above are so widely applied in Western myths
and legends that we cannot use it for genetic connection between Moses
and any one such Greek figure.
So if we want to get to the core of what the tales of Moses are about
and where they come from, we must excavate even more.
In the legendary DNA of this man, we can find a lineage of lore.
Primary Source for Exodus Myth
A further indication that the story of Moses leading the Hebrews out of Egypt is a myth.
Concerns the 40 years spent in the desert of Kadesh, Barnea.
According to the Bible, some 2 million people
are able to wander around the desert for 40 years without finding their way out
and without starving or dying of thirst.
They are provided with a magical substance called manna, itself a mythical trope.
Divine elixirs in golden apples, nectar of the gods and peaches of immortality.
Magical foodstuffs play important roles in mythology.
It doesn't get any easier for someone seeking credibility in this extraordinary tale.
We have archaeological evidence of Bedouin tribes at the time in Kadesh, Barnea,
creating tent settlements and using a few tools and making fires.
But we don't have any evidence of an entire population of Hebrews
living and working as slaves in Egypt for all those years,
breaking out whilst doing a whole host of miracles.
All while there were 10 plagues ravaging the land, crossing the Red Sea
and the sea miraculously parting and destroying the Egyptian army following along.
And then we have absolutely no evidence of perhaps 2 million people wandering around the
desert with all their animals, tents and supplies for 40 years.
We have evidence of a few Bedouin tribes people, but no evidence of 2 million former slaves.
Literally none. Zip zero nada.
And yet there is still scope for more mythological traits besides a baby and a basket.
The Hebrews were supposed to have been wandering around for 40 years.
Forties are a very significant and symbolic number within the Bible.
Burning Bush appeared to Moses after he had spent 40 years in Midian.
Moses stayed up on the mountain for 40 days and 40 nights in receiving God's laws
during his time in the desert.
Heavy rains fell for 40 days and 40 nights to fill the earth
with water to the highest mountains.
Saul, David and Solomon were each said to have ruled for 40 years.
In the story of David and Goliath in 1 Samuel 17,
we see Goliath taunting the Israelites for 40 days.
And in the emulation of Moses and the Hebrews being in the wilderness for 40 years,
we have Jesus spending 40 days in his own wilderness.
While it might just be that all of these events took exactly that amount of time and some strange
twist of fate or under the guidance of God who really liked the number 40,
it is much more likely that this is symbology applied to a tall tale by a creative narrator
wanting his audience to make links.
The use of this number talks more of myth than of history.
Symbolism than literalism.
The wilderness desert wandering from Egypt with well over literally 2 million people
is completely absent from any archaeological evidence.
So several biblical defenders will find ways to save the text from this fatal issue of historical
validity.
Some ways they do this is to assume the numbers reflect a later period of Israel's population.
The numbers are symbolic.
It's hyperbole or it was a mistranslation.
Why do they do this?
Because it's not only absurd, lacking any evidence to support the literal reading of
this massive group from leaving Egypt, but it also is logistically impossible.
Imagine a line of people stretching for 200 miles.
That's like walking from New York City to Boston.
Now, a fit person might walk 20 miles in a day, maybe even 23 if they're in a hurry,
but add families, kids, grandparents, and some animals.
That pace slows down to about 6 miles a day.
So by the time the front of the line is making its way across the sea,
the back of the line might still be weeks away.
The biblical text says they did this in one night.
Some folks have done the math to see if it's possible.
There are a lot of things that just don't add up about the story being a real historical event.
Since the idea of the exes, as described by the Bible, is fatally flawed.
Other academics have different approaches to solving this enigma.
Some scholars suggest that we know of accounts where a few runaway slaves have fled Egypt
and think it's possible this story grew over time into a much bigger legend.
Let me give you an example.
While fishing, some of my friends would catch a decent-sized fish on the river.
Later on, when retelling their experience, the fish just so happened to be twice the size
of the actual fish they originally caught.
People tell stories, and they grow larger over time,
like a snowball rolling downhill picking up more snow along the way.
Some academics suggest the Exodus narrative was inspired by the Hyksos expulsion.
Josephus, a historical writer and many other old-timey authors,
thought that a group called the Hyksos were actually the same as the Jews.
Using stories from another writer named Manetho,
Josephus suggests that after the Hyksos were kicked out of Egypt,
they started the city of Jerusalem.
Now, there's a bit of a debate here as the original writings of Manetho
didn't specifically call the Hyksos Jews or Hebrews.
Things get a bit twisty when Josephus tells another story, which we quoted earlier.
He claims that about 200 years after the Hyksos were sent away from Egypt,
a bunch of sick people, led by a guy named Osarasaph, were also expelled.
The sick folks joined up with the Hyksos, took over Egypt for a little over a decade,
and were pretty mean rulers.
They even wrecked some temples.
After all, this drama, this Osarasaph guy changes his name to, wait for it, Moses.
Some researchers think this wild story mixes up different parts of history,
and the whole Moses name drop might have been added later.
Some even doubt that Manetho wrote that second story at all.
It's like ancient historical gossip, and figuring out the truth is a real puzzle.
Most modern experts think the Egyptian stories in the Bible
can't be proven with historical methods.
However, some have tried to link the stories from the Hyksos era to the Bible's Exodus story.
For example, scholars like Jan Asman and Donald Redford think the biblical escape from Egypt
might have been influenced by when the Hyksos were kicked out of Egypt.
This idea isn't too far off from the Bible's timeline,
and the Hyksos's exit is the only big time event we know where a group from Asia was forced out of
Egypt. But other experts like Manfred Betach have issues with this idea.
They highlight the differences, like how the Hyksos were powerful traders and sailors in Egypt.
While the Bible depicts the Israelites as being treated poorly,
it's like trying to match two puzzle pieces that just don't fit perfectly.
Did the authors of the Exodus tradition find inspiration from some Hyksos event?
It appears that the expulsion of the Hyksos was circulating into the Christian era,
so it's easy to see why. The idea of an Exodus happening as described by the Bible is just
off the table, as well as the conquest, but that will need to be unraveled in a future
documentary. Professor Hebrew Bible and Jewish studies Ronald Hindle and Egyptologist Jan Asman
suggest cultural memory as a solution to the Moses enigma. Asman aims to account for the
complexities of the foundational event through which monotheism was established. His book,
Moses the Egyptian, goes back to the short-lived monotheistic revolution of the Egyptian King
Akhenaten, 1360-1340 BCE. I want us to think of the story of Moses as a patchwork quilt of
various sources. The person of Moses evolves over time from our earliest mentions of him
in any sources Egyptian, Manito, Jewish, Demetrius, the Chronographer, Greek, Hecateus of Abdera,
and later Christians. It's pretty obvious that Egyptian sources would be at play since the
entire story happens to take place in Egypt, and we have non-biblical sources that also mention
Moses as an Egyptian priest. However, the narrative structure of making an inventive history
founding a nation with 12 tribes and forming a constitution for these people has no closer
parallels in this world than with the Greeks. Several scholars like Bruce Loudon, Thomas L.
Thompson, Yonvin Vassilius, Yonvin Cedars, Yekov Kupitz, Russell Gamirkin, Filovage and Bomb,
etc. Think the closest comparisons to the Bible's inventive histories is the Greek writings. Yonvin
Cedars wrote a well-known book called In Search of History. In it, he talks about how the historical
writings from ancient Israel compare with other old stories from places like the Middle East and
Greece. People have given his book a lot of praise for bringing new ideas to the table.
Van Cedars points out that even though we have many old stories from the Middle East,
only the ones from Greek writers are somewhat similar to the biblical stories in terms of how
they talk about the past. He also thinks that the first five books of the Bible, often called the
Books of Moses, shouldn't be compared too closely with these other stories. Why? Because a lot of
what's in those books might not be directly reflecting actual historical events. However,
Sarah Mandel and David Null Friedman wrote a book comparing the primary history, which is Genesis,
Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy, Joshua, Judges, Samuel and Kings, and the histories
by an ancient writer named Herodotus. Herodotus was a writer from a place called
Halachanarsus, who lived around 490 to 430 BCE. He wrote a big nine-part book named Histories,
which means investigation. In this book, he talked about battles between Greeks and Persians
during the time two Persian kings, Darius and Xerxes, ruled around 492 to 479 BCE.
But he didn't just write about the battles. He also dug deep into the history of Greece
in nearby regions over the past 200 years to explain why these fights started in the first
place. Their book mainly looks at how these stories were put together and edited, but they also
discussed the writing style and content. They found some interesting similarities between the two.
For example, both works are split into nine parts. And interestingly, in both the eighth and ninth
sections, there's a break right in the middle of a story. In Herodotus, it's about a general named
Mardonius, and in the Bible, it's a detailed story that stretches from 2 Samuel 9 to 1 Kings 2,
known as King David's Succession. Cool, right? If these scholars, along with Yon Vim Vassilius,
are correct, then the authors of the history of Israel, from creation, writing sometime after
the exile, may have created a nine-piece composition, with several sources helping them to create their
history of how their nation came to be. Yon Vim Vassilius compares the historical narratives of
the Hebrew Bible and Herodotus' histories, focusing on parallels between the stories of
Joseph and Cyrus, as well as Moses and Xerxes. He argues that the accounts of Joseph and Cyrus,
which come at similar points in the first half of each work, have striking similarities that
suggest some influence or shared source. Both Joseph and Cyrus have dreams foretelling their
eventual power, narrowly avoid death due to the intervention of relatives, go into obscurity
for years before re-emerging, and gain power in nations from which future conquests are launched.
He also sees parallels between Moses and Xerxes, the leader of massive campaigns,
two generations after Joseph and Cyrus respectively. Both reluctantly take on divine mandates to
invade distant lands, miraculously cross bodies of water with huge armies that meet tragic fates,
face doubts about their missions, and participate in archetypal battles from vantage points. The
author argues that the Exodus narrative broadly mirrors Xerxes' invasion of Greece.
Overall, he contends that the extensive parallels in content and narrative position between figures
and events in the Hebrew Bible and Herodotus' histories point to some influence of the latter
on the former. He suggests that seeing primary history in light of Herodotus can aid in properly
understanding it as an ancient Jewish work, responding to contemporary ideas and texts
rather than a direct record of Israelite history. While acknowledging that some parallels may be
coincidental, he argues that their cumulative weight makes his thesis plausible. Here's an
image from Dr. Vassilius' book, Origin of the History of Israel, Herodotus' Histories as Blueprint
for the First Books of the Bible, comparing the accounts of Herodotus to the patriarchs in the
Bible. If you look at the image, he'll show you where Cyrus, Joseph, and Levi—there's the
end of the first book—there's where that break happens, and he compares both histories. We might
suggest that when the first stories about Moses, from his birth to leaving Egypt, were written,
the Jewish people had good memories of King Cyrus. The writer, maybe a Yahwist, probably knew about
stories by Herodotus about Cyrus and the kings that followed him. Some parts of those stories
sound similar to Moses' story, maybe on purpose, or maybe just because they were familiar.
I don't believe the Jewish writers made up this grand Moses story completely from scratch.
They might have taken inspiration from other stories, like those of Herodotus. In some ways,
Cyrus is just like Moses. He was a messiah to save Israel and helped get the Israelites
into the Promised Land after being in Babylon, which could be seen as a version of Egypt.
Scattering the Israelites among the nations was a form of wilderness experience as explicitly
compared by the prophet Ezekiel. The authors living either in the Persian period or Hellenistic are
anachronistically creating a history from creation down to their day, with several flags signaling
what appears to be their experience with the nations of Babylon, Persia, Egypt, and Greece.
For a modern analogy, the superhero film genre owes a great debt to movies like Superman, 1978,
and Batman, 1989. Nowadays, it's hard to watch a superhero film without noticing elements or ideas
that were popularized by these pioneering movies. Taking one last look at the works of Vesilius,
he argues that there are notable parallels between the accounts of Xerxes's expedition
against Greece and Herodotus' histories and the Exodus narrative about Moses in the Hebrew Bible.
Both Xerxes and Moses are initially reluctant leaders who undertake campaigns at divine urging.
The Promised Lands of Greece and Canaan are depicted as rich and fertile. Before their expeditions,
both rulers experienced portents like darkness and death of firstborn sons. The mustering of
their armies is also described. The Crossing of the Hellespomp by Xerxes's army and the Crossing
of the Red Sea by the Israelites occur via miraculous dividing of the waters. Afterwards,
the Divinity is directly addressed. In the campaigns, Xerxes and Moses receive warnings
about the difficulties ahead. There are parallels between the complaints of the Israelites and
advice given to Xerxes. Provisioning the multitudes is a logistical challenge and both counts.
The Battle of Thermopylae corresponds to the battle with Amalek. The leaders observe from
vantage points and are aided by relatives. Advice after Thermopylae may parallel
Jethro's Council to Moses on governance. Overall, he argues for literary connections
between Herodotus' histories and the Pentateute. With Xerxes's campaign, structurally paralleling
the Exodus narrative, he presents a detailed analysis of the correspondence.
The Cattle to the Sun God
Turning now to Dr. Bruce Loudon, who received his PhD from the University of California at Berkeley.
He was super interested in ancient stories and myths from places like Greece and the Near East,
as well as classic works from Shakespeare, Milton, and even some from India. He's passed away,
but his ideas are still with us. He wrote a wonderful book called Homer's Odyssey in the Near East,
which echoes much of what Dr. Philip Vajambam says about the Greek connections to the Bible.
He highlights the significance of the three occurrences in the Bible of women at the well
being betrothed, which includes Moses meeting Zipporah and how this has parallel significance
to Homer's Odyssey. Loudon highlights the mythological genre within these stories very well.
He says myths are like stories, ancient stories that use classic elements we see over and over,
like scenes in a courtroom of gods or stories where someone unexpectedly hosts a very special
guest. They also have common characters like heroes, gods, or wise old figures, just like we
have different genres of movies today, like action, drama, or comedy. Myths also have genres or
categories. When people hear a myth, they kind of know the general plot because they're familiar
with the genre, but there are always little changes or local touches that make each one unique.
Now we're going to show all the genre markers to parallel the myth of Moses and Odysseus from
Homer's Odyssey. The comparisons are actually very shocking, whether the Bible borrowed directly
from the Odyssey to craft its Moses myth, some common source, or the elements are known to be
floating in the air among people of the time. I don't know. I find the last one extremely
unlikely, but you will see why in the end of this study. The comparisons are undeniable.
Are you ready to have your mind blown? Let's begin. Imagine a captivating adventure where a leader
with a strong connection to a god is guiding his people home. Along the way, his followers grow
impatient, and while he's away, they break a major rule set by the god. When they're caught,
now you might be thinking of the famous tale from ancient Greece, where the hero Odysseus and his
crew face numerous challenges on their journey home. Or you might be thinking of the story of
Moses from the Old Testament, leading the Israelites from Egypt. Interestingly, in Odysseus's tale,
his crew rebels while on an island called Thrunakia, with cattle to the Sun God Apollo,
leading to a major disaster. This event is quite similar to when the Israelites in Moses's absence
create and worship a golden calf, angering their god Yahweh. Both leaders, Moses and Odysseus,
have a very close relationship with the deity who play no part in their followers' rebellious acts.
Yet, while the disobedient followers face divine wrath, the leaders are spared. However,
there are important differences too. For instance, while Moses's people are traveling to a new home,
Odysseus and his crew are trying to return to their old home. Moses is seen as a prophet, whereas
Odysseus is a warrior and hero. Despite these differences, both stories touch on religious
themes. They highlight the dangers of disrespecting gods and the consequences of breaking divine rules.
The tales remind us of ancient beliefs about the power of gods and how they must be respected.
What's fascinating is that by comparing these two tales, we can better understand each story
and the cultures they come from. There's also a historical connection. Then Moses led his people
away from Egypt around the same time the Greeks believed they had defeated Troy.
In both stories, leaders, Odysseus and Moses, are shown to have a unique and close bond with
the gods, unlike their followers who don't share this same connection. In the tale of Odysseus,
even though some parts of the story show him tackling challenges alone, he's frequently guided
and helped by the gods. For instance, Zeus, the top god, makes a notable mention about him,
and Athena, a powerful goddess, often steps in to assist him. He even gets a direct visit and
guidance from the god Hermes. All these events highlight how Odysseus is different from his
crewmates, who don't have such divine interactions. Sticking to this theme, Odysseus often follows
the gods' advice. Whether it's Hermes guiding him on how to deal with Cersei,
or Cersei directing him on his journey to the underworld, he listens. So when he's told not
to harm the sacred cattle of the sun god Helios, it's in line with his character to obey. With
Moses, it's clear he has a unique bond with God known as Yahweh. Right from when he hears
God's voice from a burning bush, to the numerous times God guides him on handling the pharaoh,
their special connection stands out. For instance, when Moses is unsure about speaking to his people,
God reassures him, promising to guide his words. Interestingly, a similar theme pops up in the
tale of Odysseus. Here, it's not Odysseus but his son Ptolemycus, who's hesitant to speak before an
elder, Nestor. Athena, a goddess, steps into comfort and guide Ptolemycus, just like she does for his
father throughout their journey. Going back to Moses, the difference between his close relationship
with God and the more distant one the Israelites share with him becomes even more obvious. At one
point, God asks Moses to come up a mountain alone to receive special teachings, making it clear
others can't join. Moses does so, disappearing into a cloud, leaving everyone else behind.
In both cases, there's a forced pause in the journey which makes the travelers restless.
This pause becomes crucial because both groups, the crew with Odysseus and the Israelites with
Moses, had already shown some rebellious tendencies. This stop only heightens the tension they feel
towards their leaders. What's more, even though their actual destinations aren't that far away,
it takes them years to get there. This delay becomes a small reflection of the bigger challenges
they face on their journeys. Interestingly, the time they're stuck is about the same for both.
A month for Odysseus' crew and 40 days for the Israelites. Both these timeframes are symbolic
and often come up in their respective myths. It won't be a shock that in the Exodus and Odyssey,
we see strange weather patterns believed to be caused by the gods play a significant role in
delaying the travelers. In the Odyssey, after Odysseus and his crew reached Thrunachia,
strong winds stopped them from leaving. Similarly, Menelaus finds himself stuck on an island called
Feros when there's no wind at all. He's trapped there 20 days, runs out of food, and his men become
desperate with hunger. Back on Thrunachia, once the crew arrives and settles down for dinner,
a huge storm breaks out. This storm is described in a way that's reminiscent of an earlier storm
in their journey. These two storms are interconnected in the narrative. The first storm hints that the
journey home won't be easy, while the last one foreshadows a tragic end, as many of the crew
members never make it home. These fierce winds continue for a month, and just like with Menelaus,
Odysseus' crew runs out of food and becomes very hungry. With the Exodus story, dramatic
weather events believed to be acts of gods are frequently depicted. Examples include a cloud
by day and a pillar of fire by night guiding the Israelites, and the heavy cloud, thunder and
lightning that surround God's appearance on Mount Sinai. Just before a key moment of rebellion,
the Israelites see Moses as he's called by God from a cloud on a mountain. After this, Moses
disappears into this cloud, remaining hidden for 40 days. In the expansive Exodus narrative,
there is a noticeable trend among followers to distance themselves from their deity. This
distancing foreshadows their eventual revolt against the deity and mirrors their inclination to
challenge their respective leaders. Both narratives have earlier instances of such defiance,
setting the stage for pivotal moments in Odyssey 12 and Odysseus' crew right from the prologue,
stressing that they meet their doom due to their own recklessness, even as Odysseus endeavors to
rescue them. The fable of the Odyssey illustrates the crew's rebellious nature in three distinct
episodes which culminate in a full-blown mutiny in Thrunakia. The stop at Ismaros acts as a
microcosm of the crew's predisposition towards revolt, setting the scene for the events at Thrunakia.
Here, after they have plundered the city of the Socones, Odysseus urges them to depart, yet they
remain defiant, choosing to feast by killing numerous sheep and cattle. This decision allows the
Socones to gather reinforcements and launch a retaliatory attack which claims the lives of
72 crew members. Their demise is a direct consequence of their disregard for Odysseus'
instructions, combined with their impulsive choice to feast in a potentially hazardous
environment. This act of overindulgence and lack of restraint foreshadows their later actions on
Thrunakia. During their voyage away from Aeolus Island, when they are within sight of Ithaca,
a crew member without any solid proof convinces his peers that Odysseus is secretly keeping
treasures from them. While Odysseus is asleep, this crew member opens the bag given by Aeolus,
releasing stormy winds and sending them back to the island. Much like in Thrunakia,
a single crew member instigates a rebellion against Odysseus, resulting in the loss of
their chance to return home. This rebellion is notably executed while Odysseus is resting,
a circumstance that occurs in Thrunakia. In another foreshadowing instance,
Uryllicus tries to discourage the crew from accompanying Odysseus back to Cersei.
Even though he's unsuccessful here, Uryllicus positions himself as a representative of descent,
embodying the voice of those who will later rebel in Thrunakia. The next significant act of
insubordination happens as the crew lands on Thrunakia, drawing them closer to Helios' sacred
cattle. Both Thereseus and Cersei had cautioned Odysseus against harming these cattle. Some
scholars critique the repetitiveness of these warnings, yet few ponder its intentional impact.
When Cersei echoes Thereseus' warning, the prohibition against harming the cattle
elevates to a divine edict, akin to the biblical command in Genesis forbidding the consumption
from the Tree of Knowledge. Infringing upon such a divine command usually leads to grave penalties,
often death, as exemplified by Lot's wife in the narrative of Sodom and Gomorrah. Aware of these
consequences, Odysseus advises against docking at Thrunakia. However, Uryllicus' disregarding
the cautions contends they should eat on the island, given their fatigue. Acknowledging the
impending mutiny, Odysseus makes the crew swear they won't harm Helios' cattle.
In the Exodus narrative, there are previous instances where the Israelites challenge Moses,
foreshadowing their major uprising in Exodus 32-11. Initially, when Moses approaches Pharaoh
to request permission for the Israelites to engage in their religious ceremony,
Pharaoh retaliates by increasing their workload. Interestingly, the Israelites lay the blame
on Moses, not Pharaoh, for their augmented troubles. This marks the inaugural questioning of
Moses' leadership, which is a crisis that develops around the challenge to Moses' leadership in
Exodus 5, 20-21. When Pharaoh later chases the Israelites to the Red Sea, they again reproach
Moses, expressing regret and wishing they had perished in Egypt instead. Upon their arrival
at Mara, faced with only bitter waters, their grievances are once more directed at Moses.
Notably, while journeying through the wilderness of Sin, merely two months after their Egyptian
exodus, their hunger evokes complaints reminiscent of the crew's unrest in Thrunakia. They lament,
Each grievance of the Israelites is reminiscent of the complaints voiced by Odysseus' crew on
Thrunakia, particularly their fear of impending starvation. This mirrors Eurylicus' bleak
perspective, where he states that perishing from hunger is the worst kind of death.
Subsequent to these events, when the Israelites set up camp at Refideim and are unable to find water,
a fresh conflict emerges between them and Moses concerning their thirst. Moses perceives their
defiance against him as tantamount to rebelling against God. Posing the question, Why do you
dispute with me? Why do you challenge the Lord? In several narratives, the absence of a leader
plays a pivotal role in the ensuing insurrection. This is evident in the tale where, unable to
depart from Thrunakia for a span of 30 days, Odysseus isolates himself from his crew to seek
divine intervention. Such a circumstance offers an opportune moment for the crew to defy his
instructions, seeking to further their own interests. However, it would be incorrect to
suggest that Odysseus bears the blame for their mutiny. As some scholars occasionally assert,
this perspective seemingly overlooks Zeus' fundamental proclamation on the liability of
mortals. Additionally, it fails to recognize the thematic likenesses the Odyssey draws between
the crew and the suitors, especially their engagement in rash deeds, pinpointed by Zeus.
Both entities exhibit a thematic lack of restraint, which will be further elaborated upon. Conversely,
the absence of Odysseus provides insights into his character and how he stands apart from his
crew. Modern readers might be taken aback by these traits, but Odysseus' pursuit of divine
guidance reflects his moral compass and leadership's wisdom, emphasizing the captain's devotion and
virtuous aspirations. Further, as Stanford remarks,
The choice of Odysseus to commune with the deities in seclusion mirrors the tendencies of a Hebrew
prophet more so than the collective and ritualistic spiritual practices of the Homeric hero.
In Exodus 32, the prolonged absence of Moses is what agitates the Israelites,
a scenario reminiscent of Threnakia, where the crew's restlessness precedes Odysseus' solitary
quest for prayer due to the winds. The correlation between Moses' absence and the Israelite's
subsequent defiance is delineated more overtly than in the Odyssey. As illustrated by the phrase,
the people saw that Moses was so long and coming down from the mountain.
Moses' absence spans 40 days and within this time frame in Exodus 24, when he departs to
converse with Yahweh until his return in chapter 32, the Old Testament author's interpose and episode,
which doesn't directly pertain to the insurrection. The narrative of Moses' divine engagement atop
the mountain, as captured between Exodus 25 to 31, synthesizes two mythological structures,
anabasis, and the visionary experience. Moses' ascent, or going up, referred to as an anabasis
in the Septuagint, is analogous to a celestial journey. As Moses scales the peak, he metaphorically
nears the heavens. Here, he is endowed with a modified visionary experience, with Yahweh
serving as his otherworldly mentor. In both tales, the leader's absence stems from their engagement
or attempt to communicate with the divine, as seen with Moses and Odysseus, while the respective
followers act in defiance of their deity's intent. In moments of exacerbated impatience,
people often seek alternative leaders who, in the absence of a direct connection to the divine,
tend to oppose sacred edicts to fulfill the demands of the disappointed.
Uryllikos exhibits such tendencies on numerous occasions. He is believed to be the unidentified
crew member who tempts fate by opening Aeolus' bag, a transgression that notably occurs during
Odysseus' slumber. Uryllikos directly confronts Odysseus on Aiaia, and plays a pivotal role
in the decision to dock at Thrunakia. In Exodus 32, Aaron, Moses' sibling, and the high priest,
tasked with leading sacrificial rites, steps into this surrogate leadership role. It is essential
to note that Aaron was not originally a frontrunner amongst the disgruntled. In previous narratives,
he was in fact a target of their rage. The Israelites fought him and Moses for their
predicaments with Pharaoh, and for their tribulations in route to Canaan. However,
it is during their prolonged stay at Mount Sinai's base, in the protracted absence of Moses,
that Aaron rises as the leader of the dissenting group. The disparity in behavior, Uryllikos'
recurrent confrontations with Odysseus in contrast to Aaron's loyalty to Moses, up until Exodus 32,
becomes more pronounced when assessing their eventual destinies in the culmination of their
respective myths. Both protagonists in the narrative share the trait of having a relative
in a secondary leadership role. Uryllikos shares family ties with Odysseus, being connected through
marriage as highlighted in Odysseus' recounting. This bond becomes particularly significant when
Odysseus contemplates retribution against Uryllikos for attempting to deter the crew from journeying
to Cersei's abode. Despite the degree of kinship not being as close as that of Aaron and Moses,
the fundamental sentiment remains consistent. It is unexpected for a relative to exhibit
disloyalty to the main leader. Aaron's introduction into Moses' overarching narrative comes notably
late. His emergence is only recorded post-Moses' marriage and extended tenure with the Midianites.
Specifically, it's upon the conclusion of the Burning Bush episode where Yahweh designates
Aaron as Moses' spokesperson. Interestingly, while Moses' sister gets a mention, albeit
without a name, in the primary narrative, Aaron's conspicuous absence, despite his significant
involvement later on, is intriguing. Some scholars underscore this delayed introduction,
remarking on the absence of prior mention of Aaron, saying,
No previous report of Aaron's existence had been made. The apparent contradictions in Aaron's portrayal,
ranging from being a leader of the dissenters to the progenitor of the priestly lineage,
could likely be attributed to the merging of disparate narratives resulting in certain incongruities.
Prior to significant divergencies in their narratives, both Uryllikos and Aaron are
portrayed as collaborators with the primary protagonists. Uryllikos, although frequently
portrayed as confronting or opposing Odysseus, also aids him on several occasions, especially
in religious rituals. In the realm of Hades, Uryllikos, along with another crew member,
Paramedes, helps with the sacrifice of two rams in line with Cersei's guidance. Following her
previous directions, when they later confront the Sirens, it is Cersei's explicit instructions
that save them, detailing how Odysseus can listen to their song, yet remain unscathed,
emphasizing that should he request to be released, his bindings should instead be tightened.
When the song's allure proves irresistible to Odysseus, it is Paramedes and Uryllikos who
enforce his bindings. Following Cersei's divine commands, evoking the ritualistic nature of the
event came to the Hades' sacrifice. In the same vein, Aaron, in relation to Moses,
echoes Uryllikos' relationship with Odysseus. Though he later spearheads the rebellion in Exodus
32, Aaron's earlier representations depict him harmoniously collaborating with Moses.
His inaugural mention in Exodus reveals Yahweh's intention for the brothers to act in concert with
Aaron as Moses' mouthpiece. Throughout Moses' engagements with Pharaoh, Aaron consistently
partners with him, showcasing their collaborative spirit. As the inaugural high priest of Israel,
Aaron's intimate involvement in sacrificial rites is evident. Their collaborative endeavors peak
when they jointly petitioned Pharaoh for permission to conduct a sacrifice to Yahweh.
When Pharaoh's subsequent denial, Aaron's capacities are highlighted as he executes
a series of miraculous acts, including transforming the Nile's waters to blood.
These acts intriguingly foreshadow his capability to fashion the golden calf later on.
Disrespecting the Divine
In his desire to avoid death by starvation, considered the most tragic demise,
Uryllikos suggests slaughtering the prime cattle of Helios as an offering to the gods of Olympus.
He then proposes to perform rites in honor of Helios once they return home. The transgression
is artfully concealed within the framework of ritual practices, with Odysseus away in slumber.
Uryllikos and the rest of the crew proceed to see several of Helios' cattle.
They offer prayers before slaughtering, skinning, and roasting the animals, committing a profound
sacrilege. In a parallel narrative, certain Israelites, resembling the most unnamed crew
members of Odysseus, save four paramedes, approach Aaron with a request to create
and venerate idols not dedicated to Yahweh. Heeding their wishes, Aaron collects their
gold earrings and crafts the golden calf, even constructing an altar to worship it.
This act of using gold jewelry can be traced back to an earlier episode in Egypt,
where the Israelites had acquired gold and silver ornaments from their neighbors.
Although Exodus 32, 2-3, specifically cites the nose rings as the source for the golden calf,
there is a possibility that it indirectly alludes to the jewelry mentioned in Exodus 11-2.
In both Greek and Old Testament narratives, divine prohibitions play a recurrent and crucial role,
a comparison can be drawn between Adam and Eve's violation of the ban against consuming from the
Tree of Knowledge and the Greek myths wherein Epimetheus is warned not to receive gifts from
Zeus and Pandora is cautioned against opening the urn, as recorded in Works and Days.
These stories symbolize the initial pairs in both Israelite and Greek mythologies.
A reoccurring theme in these tales is the failure of humans, early humans, to honor
agreements with deities, especially in heeding divine prohibitions. In the Biblical story of
the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah, an angel instructs Lot and his family not to glance back
while escaping. The dire consequence of ignoring the divine command is vividly illustrated when
Lot's wife defying the command transformed into a pillar of salt. In Homer's Odyssey,
Cersei reiterates Tiresias' warnings to avoid harming Helios' cattle, elevating a seer's warning
to the stature of a divine command. Central to the Exodus narrative, the Decalogue is comprised
solely of divine prohibitions by crafting the idol and participating in the ritual.
Aaron and the dissenting Israelites breach three of these decrees.
Subsequent to this initial version of the Decalogue,
Yahweh expressly instructs Moses. This additional divine prohibition is also
infringed upon by Aaron and the defiant Israelites. A striking similarity in both myths is the direct
conveyance of divine prohibitions by the deities, Cersei and Yahweh, to the pivotal figures Odysseus
and Moses respectively. Both myths depict the rebels' rituals as a skewed imitation of authentic
ceremonies. In the Odyssey, Eurylochus and his team are primarily driven by hunger,
with the sacrifice to Helios serving merely as a cover. The genuineness of their sacrifice is
further brought into question by their use of unsuitable substitutes. In place of barley,
they scatter oat leafs and without wine, they offer water as libations. The legitimacy of their
ceremony is questionable, disregarding the divine prohibition surrounding the cattle.
Their subsequent banquet spans six days and is punctuated by eerie omens, including moving
cattle hides and sound of mooing from the meat being roasted. As some scholars have pointed out,
this last feast with its unsettling omens bears thematic similarities to the final meal of the
suitors in the Odyssey and theocliminuses foreboding vision of a palace drenched in blood
haunted by ghostly apparitions. A comparable narrative emerges with Aaron and the Israelites.
Their creation of the golden calf defies divine mandates. The following events are marked by a
day-long feast where they sat down to eat and drink and later engaged in festivity. Scholars draw
attention to the disparity between this ritualistic behavior and their subsequent hedonism, highlighting
that, the people's actions mimic the Covenant's formulation in chapter 24, which also encompass
sacrifice and a holy meal in the presence of a discernible deity. In both myths, there's an
association with the same animal type, whether it's a cow, bull, or a calf. While these animals are
commonly used in sacrificial rites and represented as divine symbols, this similarity, albeit broad,
provides yet another parallel. In Exodus 32, the bovine representation of the idol adds a layer of
mockery. Having encountered Yahweh, the Israelites revert to venerating a deity linked to an animal
form. This serves as a reflection of the shared sacrificial traditions between the Greeks and
Israelites, evident throughout the Mosaic text. We must emphasize that the dissenters are actually
conscious of the transgressions they are undertaking. Thereseus forewarns of the
crew's doom if they harm Helios' cattle. Notably, both Urilikos and Paramedes are present during
this prophecy alongside Odysseus. Later, as they sell past Trenacea, Odysseus conveys the essence
of Thereseus' warning to the entire crew, eliciting from them an oath to refrain from
killing any ox or sheep which they duly swear. The gravity of infringing upon Helios' cattle
is not lost on them. Urilikos' own words when advocating for the consumption of the cattle
attest to his comprehension of the peril. Despite being fully apprised of the consequences,
they consciously decide they'd prefer perishing at sea over succumbing to hunger on Trenacea,
and their wish is tragically granted. In the context of the Old Testament, given the relentless
critiques against venerating any deity other than Yahweh, the Israelites would undoubtedly
recognize, even if subconsciously, that they're partaking in apostasy. This apostate act is
thematically known to elicit Yahweh's anger, as particularly emphasized in Exodus 25.
Both myths incorporate discussions regarding temple construction. In the Odyssey, while
persuading the crew to sacrifice some of Helios' cattle, Urilikos promises to construct a temple
in honor of the god upon their safe arrival. Such a subject is infrequently broached in Homeric
epics. Alfred Hubek elaborates, mentions of dedicating temples are especially noteworthy
in Homer, considering there are hardly any mentions of Greek temples, save for one,
the Temple of Athena at Athens, and another at Troy, and among the Phoenicians. Historically,
Dark Age Greeks began constructing temples relatively later, perhaps influenced by external
cultures. Urilikos' commitment, juxtaposed with his urging to harm the god's sacred livestock,
exudes a sense of thoughtless contradiction. Meanwhile, the Exodus narrative in the chapters
preceding 32 extensively details the blueprint of the Tabernacle and its associated offerings.
Though presented distinctively, this is another shared motif between the myths,
strategically positioned in their respective narratives. Urilikos' Envision Temple is
opulent, filled with Agulmata, or offerings pleasing to the gods. These could be sacrifices,
artifacts, or even idols. The Septuagint's translation also utilizes Agulmata in similar
contexts. The terms inaugural, mentioned in the Odyssey, sheds light on its versatility. Agistos,
drawing parallels to the suitors and the crew, post-sacrificing animals, presents Agulmata,
comprising gold and woven artifacts, as tokens of appreciation for winning Climonestra's affection.
Like Urilikos, Agistos offers Agulmata subsequent deeds frowned upon by the gods,
as emphasized by Zeus. When Nestor identifies Athena's prior presence, he pledges a gilded,
horned yearling cow as a sacrifice to her. This offering, later meticulously detailed,
is identified as an Agulmata for Athena, echoing the gilded calf idol in Exodus 32.
The Odyssey's sole portrayal of the Trojan horse from the Trojans' viewpoint offers intriguing
parallels. The Trojans, after some contemplation, consider the wooden horse a divine Agulmata
and usher it into their city, mirroring the Israelites in Exodus 32. The Trojans, in linking
this wooden representation to deities, inadvertently seal their fate. Odysseus and Moses discern the
indiscretions of their people from afar upon their return. As Odysseus wakes up and makes his way back
to the ship, he detects the aroma of roasting meat, even before reaching his crew. Similarly,
as Moses descends the mountain with the tablets crafted by Yahweh, Joshua assumes the noises
are from a battle. However, Moses more accurately discerns.
It is not the sound of victory or the sound of defeat. It is the sound of singing that I hear,
Exodus 32. The Septuagint further expresses joyfulness among the Israelites, which closely
aligns with the atmosphere in Odyssey 12, where the celebratory feast continues for six days.
The text states, I hear their voice led by wine, Exodus 32.
Total Destruction by Wrathful Gods In a celestial assembly,
Helios consumed by rage over in a front, warned Zeus that he may refrain from illuminating the
earth, saying, If they fail to offer me fair compensation for my cattle, I will descend to
Hades and light up the realm of the deceased. As Professor Loudon references in his book in
chapter one, this represents a distinct variant of celestial assembly, wherein the supreme sky
deity, such as Zeus, arbitrates with an angered God who issues threats of widespread devastation.
A parallel can be seen in the Epic of Gilgamesh, where an enraged Ishtar confronts Anu, proclaiming,
I shall direct myself to the netherworld and awaken the deceased, causing them to consume
the living outnumbering them. Should Helios decide to cast his light solely in the underworld,
it would inevitably result in a cataclysmic event, extinguishing all life on earth. Yet,
Zeus adeptly pacifies Helios, convincing him to limit his retribution solely to those humans who
harmed his cattle. Upon learning of an insurrection, Yahweh's reaction mirrors that of Helios. He is
so deeply aggrieved by their act that he contemplates annihilating all Israelites.
Beyond just the culprits of the indiscretion, however, Moses intervenes, similarly to how
Zeus pacified Helios. As highlighted in Professor Loudon's chapter one of his book, Moses' conversation
with Yahweh can be viewed as a type of celestial assembly, reminiscent of the Zeus-Helios exchange.
This assembly is groundbreaking for two reasons. It involves discourse between a deity and a mortal,
and it portrays Moses in a role customarily associated with a supreme deity. Several scholars
have observed that in various episodes of Exodus, Moses assumes responsibilities typically ascribed
to a deity. In this distinct scenario, Moses, much like Zeus or Anu, negotiates with the
wrathful god Yahweh, akin to Helios or Ishtar. Moses succeeds in moderating Yahweh's fury,
convincing him to reduce the scale of punishment from a potential annihilation
of the entire Israelite population to the demise of a mere 3,000 individuals.
There are broader thematic resemblances between the narratives of Poseidon in Homeric literature
and Yahweh in the Old Testament episodes. Both deities voice grievances about perceived disrespect
as demonstrated by Poseidon at Odyssey 13 and Iliad 7. Despite this being a prevalent motif,
considering the parallels identified between Yahweh and Poseidon in Chapter 7 of Loudon's book,
these deities appear to share significant similarities. A speculative hypothesis proposed
by E. L. Brown suggests that the Deon in Poseidon, or Poseidon, as referenced in Homer,
might be etymologically linked to Dagon, a primary deity of the Philistines in the Old
Testament tales. Given that numerous archaeologists now link the Philistines with the Mycenaean Greek
culture, the plausibility of an etymology connection between these names is conceivable.
Both Odysseus from the Odyssey and Moses from the book of Exodus are portrayed as figures
set apart from their respective companions due to their principled actions and avoidance of
transgressions. In the case of Odysseus, during the episode where his crew sacrilegiously
slaughters the cattle of Helios, he is absent, engaging in prayer. He neither partakes in the
sacrilegious act nor indulges in the subsequent feast. This distinction is emblematic of Odysseus'
intrinsic self-discipline, contrasted with the impulsive nature of his crew, highlighting his
unique moral fiber. Gregory Crane in 1998 observes, Odysseus stands out distinctly against the backdrop
of his crew's shortcomings, exemplifying the virtues they lack.
Similarly, in Exodus, a stark contrast emerges between Moses and the Israelites. When Moses
ascends the mountain, enveloped in a divine cloud for a prolonged 40-day encounter with Yahweh,
the Israelites below are depicted as being an awe and fearful. Robert Bernard Alter underscores
this portrayal, emphasizing the profound divide between the prophet and his followers. Moses,
before his ascent, assures the Israelites, affirming God's intention to test their faith. Yet,
akin to Odysseus' crew, the Israelites falter in this test. As a consequence of these failures,
divine retribution ensues. In the Odyssey, following their departure from Thrunakia,
Zeus wrecks their ship with a bolt of lightning, sparing only Odysseus. In contrast, the punishment
in Exodus is meaded out through human agency. In a chilling episode, Moses, acting upon divine
instructions, commands the Levites to execute those involved in the sacrilegious act.
Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel, put your sword on your side, each of you go back
and forth from the gate, the gate throughout the camp, and each of you kill your brother,
your friend, and your neighbor, the Levites, did as Moses commanded, resulting in the death
of about 3,000 people in Exodus 32. This act in Exodus mirrors a later episode in the Odyssey,
wherein divine justice is executed by a mortal, specifically on Ithaca. Here,
it's Odysseus who enacts divine retribution upon the suitors, reprimanding them for offending Athena.
An in-depth analysis of these moments of catastrophic retribution is deferred to Chapter
13 of Dr. Loudon's book. While both Aaron and Uryllikos played roles and rebellions,
their outcomes differed significantly. Aaron, despite his prominent role in the revolt,
was not held fully accountable like Uryllikos. He remained the priest of Israel after surviving
the turmoil. When confronted by Moses, Aaron minimized his involvement, attributing the creation
of the golden calf to the people's misdeeds, simply asserting that he cast their gold into the fire
and the calf emerged. Although Moses seems to partly fault Aaron, noting the people's
unruliness and Aaron's contribution to it, Aaron reemerges in the narrative only in Exodus 32-35,
where it's mentioned that the Lord chastised those who, through Aaron, crafted the calf.
Biblical scholars have postulated various reasons for Aaron's contrasting portrayal.
William H. C. Prop suggests that Aaron's depiction in the Exodus, both in Chapter 32 and prior
sections, mirrors subsequent conflicts in Israel's history.
Furthermore, Aaron's representation elucidates the origins of the priesthood and its link with
the Levites, extensively elaborated upon in Exodus 28-29. Historical analysis indicates
long-standing disagreements over the rightful priestly authority in Israel. In subsequent
eras, legitimacy was granted only to those who could trace their lineage to Aaron.
Thus, the Exodus 32 narrative provides foundational support for Aaron's survival.
Additionally, scholars recognize the connection between Exodus 32 and the reign of Jeroboam I,
who created gold calfs for religious purposes. Hence, Aaron's involvement in crafting a golden
calf may reflect the writer's views on Jeroboam's actions. Prop speculates that an earlier rendition
of the story might have placed more blame on Aaron, drawing parallels with Urilikos in the
Odyssey. He hypothesizes a more comprehensive account of the gold calf story, which could imply
that some of Aaron's Levite followers were purged. Genesis changed the earlier myth.
The resemblances between the characters and the overarching narratives of the Odyssey and the
biblical texts suggest that the Old Testament writers might have significantly adapted the
traditional form of the myth they received. This adaptation is evident in the distinct
representation of the Divine Council mediating Yahweh's anger. While the structure is reminiscent
of the specific subtype of Divine Council, where predominant sky deity pacifies a lesser deity's
wrath, the Exodus authors innovate by positioning Moses as the primary deity figure and Yahweh
as the subordinate, angered God. When examining the Odyssey, specifically Book 12, it's challenging
to pin it down historically, save for its illusion to a Greek temple. Consequently, the Odyssey might
represent a more classical rendition of this mythological archetype, seemingly less driven by
religious controversies. Even though the Odyssey doesn't use the Thrunakia Incident to push a
religious conflict narrative, it still molds this narrative within the broader scope of the
Argonautic myth. As explored in Dr. Loudon's chapter 6 of his book, this influence pervades
books 6 through 12 in the Odyssey. For instance, Helios, infuriated by an incorrect ritual,
parallels the figure of the disgruntled father-in-law Aedes from the Argonautica. You can compare him
with Laban in Genesis 29-31. Cersei, guiding Odysseus on handling her formidable father,
strongly mirrors Medea. Therefore, the Odyssey may have adapted the mythological framework
discussed here to align with the dominant theme of the Argonautic myth. Multiple narratives in
the Book of Numbers echo the mythic structure found in Exodus 32, wherein the people rebel
against divine authority and their leader. These stories also bear thematic similarities to the
events on Thrunakia and instances of Odysseus' cruise in subordination. Specifically, Numbers 11
equates rebellion with the act of eating, especially meat. As the Israelites express
dissatisfaction, God's wrath manifests, with fire erupting at the camp's edge. Moses' intervention
quells this fire, reminiscent of his role in Exodus 32, albeit without the golden calf's presence.
Subsequent complaints from the Israelites regarding their diet lead to God providing them
with an excessive amount of quell, which, when consumed, result in a divine inflicted plague.
This narrative mirrors elements of the rebellions in Exodus 32 and Thrunakia. Numbers 14 provides
a rationale for the Israelites' prolonged journey from Egypt to Canaan, spanning 40 years. After
hearing about Canaan's formidable inhabitants, the Israelites lament their situation, incurring
God's wrath. God decrees that those who have opposed him will never reach Canaan. This delay
in reaching their destination mirrors the delays faced by Odysseus and his crew, primarily due
to divine anger. In Numbers 16, Moses' leadership faces direct opposition from Korah and 250
individuals who accuse Moses and Aaron of elevating themselves. Divine intervention results in the
earth engulfing Korah's household and fire annihilating the 250 dissenters. Further blame
placed on Moses and Aaron leads to a deadly plague, only halted by their intervention.
This episode parallels the Odyssey when a crew member criticizes Odysseus' share,
resulting in the storm winds that blow them off course. Both narratives predict that many
followers will not achieve their ends goal. Moreover, the conclusion of Numbers 16 featuring
a wrathful deity, causing mass mortality, aligns with Zeus' and Poseidon's actions in the Odyssey.
Lastly, Numbers 21, 4-7 delivers a concise reflection of the Exodus 32 motif. The Israelites
grumble about hunger and impending death, which elicits a divine response of venomous serpents,
causing numerous fatalities. As with the previous narratives, Moses' intervention brings relief.
This short passage encapsulates the recurring themes of rebellion, divine ire, calamity,
and Moses' mediating role.
Argonauts of the Desert
Philavagian Bombs Greek Influence
In a previous episode on the origin of Abraham, we examined the Greek Argonautica myth with a
concise breakdown of the Frixus myth and an integral observation highlighted in the 10th step.
Here's the story.
Athimus
The Boetian King Weds Nepheli
A Cloud Deity Crafted in Hera's Likeness by Zeus
The couple produces twin offspring, Frixus and Heli.
Athimus later forsakes Nepheli in favor of Aino.
Aino harbors Malus towards her stepchildren and conspires their demise at the hands of their
own progenitor. Aino manipulates messengers to convince King Athimus that Frixus' sacrifice
at Mount Lefission was mandated by the Delphic Oracle to alleviate a prevailing famine.
On the verge of the tragic act, a divine intervention, either by Zeus or Nepheli,
presents a golden-winged ram, whisking both children to safety.
Heli's unfortunate plunge mid-flight gives rise to the naming of the Hellespont.
Frixus safely reaches Colchus, modern-day Georgia, aboard the ram.
In deep reverence, Frixus offers the savior ram to Zeus and commemorates the act by placing
its golden fleece upon an oak. An often overlooked facet, yet of paramount importance,
is the myth's introduction to the Argonaut's saga, who subsequently venture to Colchus to
reclaim the illustrious golden fleece. Drawing parallels with Genesis 22's account of Isaac's
binding, God challenges Abraham's fidelity mandating him to offer his cherished son a
top-mount moriah. Abraham obliges, tying down his son. Divine intervention by an angel halts the
ritual in its tracks. A ram, entangled in a bush, becomes Abraham's alternate sacrifice.
However, a nuanced distinction emerges. The Hellenic tale witnesses the ram's demise,
followed by the display of its fleece on a tree. Contrarily, the biblical narrative
portrays the ram's initial ensnarement, followed by a sacrifice. This deviation raises speculation
over the tale's potential shared origin. Derivative nature or mere coincidental similarities.
A deeper exploration into their respective narrative contexts, the Argonautic epic and
the biblical recount will provide further clarity. Both dads were deeply faithful and ready to follow
a divine command without question. Just as things looked grim, a magical ram appeared to save the
day. In Isaac's story, the command came directly to his father. In Frixus's, the command was for
him. This ram got tangled in some bushes or trees, before it was sacrificed for Isaac,
but after it saved Frixus. And the ram was sacrificed to spare Isaac's life and as a
thank you for saving Frixus. What's fascinating is how these story parts could easily be mixed
and matched to make new tales. So a big question emerges. Are these stories just
eerily similar by chance? Or did one story inspire the other? One detail that stands out is the ram
in the bushes. It's unique enough to make us really ponder if there's a connection between the two
stories. Now here's something to consider. While some might find it a bit controversial,
many scholars believe parts of the Old Testament were written pretty late in history. Considering
how closely Jewish and Greek cultures were during this period, it's possible they influenced each
other's stories. Interestingly, both these tales of narrow escapes from sacrifice start bigger
stories that share themes. One, both have divine promises about land inheritance. Two, both speak
of special chosen people. Three, they mention a four generation wait time before the lands acquired.
Four, a leader who's a bit hesitant due to a stutter helps the people. Five,
both tales have unexpected delays due to human mistakes. Six, the stories include desert journeys
with sacred items. Seven, along the way they get divine messages or guidance. These tales are more
than just thrilling beginnings. They're foundation stones for the larger stories. Both narratives
frequently circle back to these tales, reminding the reader of the divine promises and how everything
began. The Bible isn't just about the descendants of Abraham getting a piece of land called Canaan.
Philip Vajambam points out how similar the Bible's stories are to what Plato wrote. For starters,
both talk about a big flood that changed the world and was followed by a time when patriarchs ruled.
They mention the growth of cities, how kings came to be, the birth of laws, and even describe an
ideal world. Surprisingly, the Bible's laws often sound a lot like Plato's ideas. Both stress
having a central religious power. They emphasize the importance of pure blood, especially for religious
leaders. They aren't fans of things like same-sex relationships, witchcraft, or magic. Both have
rules about inheriting property, setting up boundary markers, and where slaves can come from.
Both divide the ideal state into 12 parts, each given to a different tribe or group. They warn
that kings can get caught up in their own desires, which could make them cruel rulers. Think of the
mistakes made by David and Solomon in the Bible. Vajambam uses a special way of analyzing stories
first introduced by Claude Levi-Strauss to look at the Bible. His findings are vast,
and this is just a peek. One notable comparison is between the near sacrifices of Frixis and Isaac
in their stories. The tale of Frixis sets the stage for the adventures of Jason and the Argonauts,
which explain the origins of a Greek settlement in North Africa.
The tales of Argonauts and the Bible simplified. Both rich in drama and destiny,
one is about the Argonauts, an adventurous group from ancient Greece. Their leader, Jason,
belongs to a family line that once tried, but failed, to sacrifice someone named Frixis. To
calm down an angry god named Zeus, the Argonauts go on a quest to find a golden fleece, basically
the shiny skin of the ram that once saved Frixis. While on this quest, an Argonaut gets some soil
from the sea god's son, which is like a future land ownership certificate. This chunk of land
will later become Cyrene, but there's a catch. If the soil was kept safe, his descendants would
move there soon. But since it was lost at sea, they'd wait many generations, settling somewhere else
first. What's interesting, the order of events is flipped in a familiar Bible story. Abraham
is first told his descendants will get land. Only after this does he nearly sacrifice his son Isaac.
Fast forward in the Argonaut story, and a guy named Batis, a descendant of the Argonauts,
gets a divine order to lead his people to Cyrene. Batis tries to wiggle out of this, saying he's
not brave and has a speech issue, but destiny won't let him off the hook. He ends up leading his people
for 40 years. This reminds many of the biblical Moses. Moses too hesitated because of his speech
problem, and then led his people for 40 years. So what's the takeaway? It's not just that there's
a passing resemblance between Frixus and Isaac. It's more profound. The whole narrative structure
of these stories seem to echo each other. There's a curious interplay where events in one tale mirror
those in another, but sometimes in a reversed order. Some say this isn't just coincidence. Given how
stories traveled and evolved in ancient times, there's a chance these tales influenced each
other in intriguing ways. Here's an excerpt from an article from Dr. Vajambam, from Plato to Moses,
Genesis, Kings, and Platonic Epic. The cycle of Abraham shows similarities to the epic of the
Argonauts. Abraham almost sacrificed his son Isaac to Yahweh, but an angel stopped him at the last
moment. Instead of his son Abraham sacrificed a ram, which he found stuck in a thicket by its horns.
Yahweh then renewed the promise that Abraham's descendants would inherit the land of Canaan,
Genesis 22. Quite similarly, Athimus, king of Boatia, almost sacrificed his son Frixus to Zeus,
but a winged golden ram took Frixus on its back and brought him safe to Colchis. And there,
Frixus sacrificed it to Zeus and hung its golden fleece on an oak tree. See Herodotus, Apollonius
of Rhodes, Apollodorus Library. Eaginess is fables. One generation later, Jason and the Argonauts set
sail to Colchis to bring the golden fleece back to Greece. On the way back, while the Argonauts were
stranded on the coast of Libya, Euphemus received a promise by the god Triton that his descendants
would inherit the land of Cyrene. Generations later, Baptus, a descendant of Euphemus,
consulted the Oracle of Delphi about his stutter. The voice of the god Apollo ordered him to take
the descendants of Euphemus to the promised land of Cyrene. Although Baptus first protested that he
did not fill up to this task and that he stuttered, he eventually led his people to Cyrene and ruled
over them for 40 years. Cipendar, Pythian, Herodotus, Apollonius of Rhodes, Argonautica.
Dr. Vajambam has a fascinating theory. He suggests that there are similarities between the story of
Moses and Jethro's daughter in the Bible and the myth of Heracles and Atlas's daughters
from Greek mythology. Let's dive into these intriguing connections in a way everyone can
understand. The priest of Midian had seven daughters. They came to draw water and filled
the troughs to water their father's flock. But some shepherds came and drove them away.
Moses got up, came to their defense, and watered their flock. When they returned to their father
Ruel, he said, How is it that you have come back so soon today? They said, In Egyptian,
helped us against the shepherds. He even drew water for us and watered the flock. He said to
his daughters, Where is he? Why did you leave the man? Invite him to break bread. Moses agreed to
stay with the man and he gave Moses his daughter Sephora in marriage, Exodus 2, 16-21. The
Pallascians were settled down under Heimesis and, setting off tents, they were doing this injustice.
Namely, indeed, their daughters went constantly for water to Aneachronus, because there were not
during that time yet for them and not for all the other Greek household servants. And whenever
they went, the Pallascians, through the agency of insolence and belittling, were doing violence to
them. Herodotus, Book 6 In the country known as Hesperitus, there were two brothers whose fame
was known abroad, Hesperus and Atlas. These brothers possessed flocks of sheep which excelled in beauty
and were in color of a golden yellow, this being the reason why the poets in speaking of these sheep
as Mele called them golden Mele. Now Hesperus began a daughter named Hesperus, whom he gave in
marriage to his brother and after whom the land was given the name Hesperitus. An Atlas begat by
her seven daughters, who were named after their father, Atlantis. And after their mother, Hesperides,
and since these Atlantis excelled in beauty and chastity, Bucerus, the king of the Egyptians,
the account says, was seized with the desire to get the maidens into his power. Consequently,
he dispatched pirates by sea with orders to seize the girls and deliver them into his hands.
Meanwhile, the pirates had seized the girls while they were playing in a certain garden
and carried them off and fleeing swiftly to the ships had sailed away with them. Heracles came
upon the pirates as they were taking their meal on a certain strand and learning from the maids
what had taken place. He slew the pirates to a man and brought the girls back to Atlas,
their father. And in return, Atlas was so grateful to Heracles for his kindly deed,
that he not only gladly gave him such assistance as his labor called for, but he also instructed
him quite freely in the knowledge of astrology. Diodorus Siculus. In the book of Exodus,
there's an interesting story where Moses helps seven daughters of a respected man at a well.
This tale has elements that remind us of stories from Greek mythology, especially those involving
the hero Heracles. Just like Moses helped the seven daughters, Heracles had an adventure where
he saved the seven daughters of Atlas. It's as if the writer of Exodus combined two classic
motifs, one about maidens at a fountain and the other about the daughters of Atlas. Pretty
interesting observation, wouldn't you say? Moses and Hesiod. ML West has noticed something
interesting. Both an ancient Greek poem called Theogony and the biblical story of Moses share
a cool theme. In both stories, a shepherd is up on a mountain when he meets a god. This god gives
him some wise words and hands over a special staff. It's like finding similar scenes in two
different movies. And one day they taught Hesiod glorious songs while he was shepherding his
lambs under Holy Helicon. And this word first, the goddess has said to me, the muses of Olympus,
daughters of Zeus, who holds the aegis, shepherds of the wilderness, wretched things of shame,
mere bellies. We know how to speak many false things as though they were true, but we know when
we will to utter true things. So said the ready voice daughters of great Zeus, and they plucked
and gave me a rod, a shoot of sturdy laurel, a marvelous thing, and breathed into me a divine
voice to celebrate things that shall be and things there were a foretime. And they bade me
sing of the race of the blessed gods that are eternally, but ever to sing of themselves both
first and last. Hesiod, Theogony. Moses was keeping the flock of his father-in-law in Jethro,
the priest of Bideon. He led his flock beyond the wilderness and came to Horrib, the mountain of God.
There the angel of the Lord appeared to him in a flame of fire out of the bush. He looked,
and the bush was blazing, yet it was not consumed. Exodus 3, 1-2.
Moses and Baptists, The Stuttering Rulers. Abraham's narrative is underpinned by a promise
that his lineage will inhabit Canaan. Interestingly, this bears semblance to the Argonaut's story.
Specifically, the Binding of Isaac episode might have its roots in the Telephrixis and the Golden
Fleece. Drawing from the Argonaut's legend, Euphemus was foretold that his progeny would
initially settle in Thera, followed by the foundation of Cyrene in Libya. Apollonius of Rhodes,
in his Argonautica, culminates with this very prophecy, seemingly nodding to Herodotus. The
historian in turn provides two interpretations of this story, from the perspective of the Therians
and Cyrenians. Vecilius proposes an intriguing hypothesis. Such narrative duality might have
influenced the biblical author to employ a similar approach of parallel narratives.
Wrought from his city of Hecatechum, and there followed him both others of his fellow citizens,
and in particular Baptists, the son of Polygnistus, being in birth a youthman of the Mining. Then,
to Grinus the king of the Therians, who was consulting the oracle about the matters,
Pythia proclaimed that he should found a city in Libya. And he replied by saying,
I for my part, O Lord, am too old by now and heavy to raise myself, bid you then one of these
younger men to do that. At the same time, he said that and appointed to Baptists. Then so much,
but afterwards, having gone away, they maintained the lack of taking account of the oracle,
because they neither knew Libya, nor dared to an obscure matter to dispatch off a colony. Herodotus,
Book 4 So thereafter, having taken up from Nini,
Polygnistus, being an esteemed man among the Therians, kept her as a concubine. Then,
time going around, there was born out to him a son, hesitant in speech and lisping,
to whom, as a name was given, Baptists. For when that one had become a man,
he went to Delphi about his voice, and to him, when he was speaking, his question,
Pithya proclaimed this, Baptists, you came for voice, Lord Phoebus, Apollo,
to sheep-rearing Libya, send you a founder. Just as if she should say, with the use of the Greek tongue,
O Basili, king, you came for voice, and he replied with this, O Lord, I came to you,
consult the oracle about my voice, and you make me other proclamations of impossible things.
As you bid, colonize Libya with what power? With what kind of band? Although he said that,
he could not persuade him to make him other proclamations, and when she was prophesying,
after the same fashion as previously, Baptists left her behind in the midst and was gone to Thera.
Herodotus, Book 4 But Moses said to the Lord, O my Lord,
I have never been eloquent, neither in the past nor even now, that you have spoken to your servant,
but I am slow of speech and slow of tongue. Exodus, 4, 10 In the book of Exodus, there seems to be
a blending of two tales from Herodotus. Here a man is divinely chosen to establish a new settlement,
a notion rooted in a promise made to his forefather. While one account depicts this man
feeling too elderly and requesting the deity to assign someone else, much like Grinus,
the other portrays him citing a speech difficulty akin to Baptists expressing feelings of inadequacy,
a striking similarity exists in the leadership duration. Both Baptists and Moses reigned for
forty years, drawing parallels further just as the Argonauts embarked on sea voyages and
quests of the fabled Golden Fleece, the Israelites traversed deserts in pursuit of a spiritual treasure,
the Divine Law. This juxtaposition presents the Israelites as desert counterparts to the Argonauts.
However, the Israelites objective isn't just to establish a mere settlement like Euphemus'
descendants, instead they aim to create a utopian society reminiscent of Plato's ideal state in
his Laws. Interestingly, the blueprint for this state would be revealed to Moses during their
desert sojourns. The Exodus and Euripides is Helen. Dr. Vajambam makes an interesting observation
by suggesting Herodotus provides a narrative that contradicts the conventional story of Helen's
infidelity. In this version, Helen was never taken to Troy by Paris. Instead, she was safeguarded by
King Proteus of Egypt. Later, Minelaus, her husband, rediscovered her in Egypt and finding her honor
untouched, took her back to Sparta. This narrative parallels the Biblical account of Sarah and
Abraham in Egypt. Egyptian officials brought Sarah to Pharaoh. However, following a series of plagues,
Sarah was returned to Abram and they were both evicted from Egypt. An intriguing connection
can be found in Herodotus 2, 119. And Minelaus, having come to Egypt and having
sailed up to Memphis, told the truth of these matters and not only found great entertainment,
but also received Helen unhurt and all his own wealth besides. Then, however, after he had been
thus dealt with, Minelaus showed himself ungrateful to the Egyptians. For when he set forth to sell
away, contrary winds detained him. And as this condition of things lasted long, he devised an
impious deed, for he took two children of natives and made sacrifice of them. After this, when it
was known that he had done so, he became abhorred. And being pursued, he escaped and got away in his
ships to Libya. But whether he went besides after this, the Egyptians were not able to tell. Of
these things, they said, they found out part by increase and the rest, namely that which happened
in their own land, they related from sure and certain knowledge. The French Hellenist and expert
in Philo of Alexandria, Jacques Cazaux, believes that the story of Abram and Sarah in Egypt is
like a mini version of the Exodus story. Here's the gist. Abram goes to Egypt, gets into a spat
with the pharaoh. Egypt faces a bunch of bad events, like plagues. And Abram is told to go home.
This story hints at what will later happen to Abram's family in another part of the Bible,
specifically in the first 15 chapters of Exodus. But there's also a twist. This story might remind
some of the tale of Helen and Minelaus. In this case, the pharaoh keeps the wife, Helen, while
treating her husband Minelaus really well, even giving him presents. But the story leaves out
the parts where the pharaoh might have dishonored Helen, or when Minelaus was scared for his life.
Also, Minelaus did something really dark. He sacrificed Egyptian kids, which reminds us of
another part of the Bible, where the firstborn children are killed. Building on this same story,
a playwright named Euripides added his own spin in his play called Helen. In this version, Helen
was looked after by King Proteus. But after the king died, his son, Theocliminus, fell for Helen.
Even though Helen was already married, he wanted to marry her. But Helen wasn't having any of it,
and decided to stay near Proteus' grave for protection. Helen. Now, as long as Proteus gazed
upon young glorious son, I was safe from marriage. But when our hymn, the dark grave closed, the
dead man's son was eager for my hand. But I, from regard to my former husband, am throwing myself
down in suppliant wise before his tomb of Proteus, praying him to guard my husband's honor.
That though, through Hellas, I bear a name dishonored, at least my body here may not incur
disgrace, Euripides, Helen. After coming back from Troy, Minelaus ends up on the shores of Egypt.
He hears that his wife is nearby. So he finds her and they reunite. Together they make a plan to
escape Egypt, all the while fearing that the local king might try to harm Minelaus because of his
feelings for her. Helen speaks. Escape and fly with all thy speed from this land. Thou will be
slain by him whose house this is. Minelaus. What have I done to merit such a feat? Helen. Thou has
arrived unexpectedly to thwart my marriage. Minelaus. What? Is some man bent on wedding my wife?
Helen. I. And on heaping those insults on me, which I have hitherto endured.
Minelaus. Is he some private prince or ruler of this land? Helen. The son of Proteus, king of the
country. Of course thou knowest, then all about my marriage. Minelaus. I do. But whether thou has
escaped thy lover, I know not. Helen. Be well assured, I have kept my body chaste. Helen. 780-95.
Helen and Minelaus come up with a clever plan to get out of Egypt. Minelaus acts like a Greek
soldier, making up a story that their ship was wrecked and that Minelaus sadly didn't survive.
Believing Helen to be now single, Theocliminus thinks he has a chance to marry her. The couple
then asks to perform a special ritual by the sea to honor the dead Minelaus, as is the Greek
tradition. Theocliminus, excited at the thought of marrying Helen, quickly agrees. The play takes
a humorous twist as the pharaoh tries to show respect for Greek traditions, but it's clear
he's mainly thinking about marrying Helen. In a funny moment, Minelaus cheekily asks the pharaoh
for all sorts of items for the ritual, including a ship and weapons, hinting at his warrior reputation.
Theocliminus gets a bit anxious about it all. Theocliminus. How far from the shore does the
ship put out? Minelaus. So far that the foam in her weight can scarce be seen from the strand.
Theo. Why so? Wherefore doth the helis observe this custom? Minelaus. That the billow may not cast
up again our expiratory offerings. Theo. Phoenician rowers will soon cover the distance. Minelaus.
Twill be well done and gratifying to Minelaus, too. Theo. Can't thou not perform these rites well
enough without Helen? Minelaus. This task belongs to mother, wife, or children. Theo. Piss her task
then, according to thee, to bury her husband. Minelaus. To be sure, piety demands that the
dead be not robbed of their due. Helen. 1265-80. On the ship, Minelaus and his crew overpower
the sailors and make a daring escape from Egypt. When Theocliminus hears of this, he's furious
and wants to chase them down. But suddenly, Helen's brothers, Caster and Pollux, show up.
They tell Theocliminus that higher powers wanted Minelaus and Helen to get away,
that he should avoid doing something wrong. This part of the play where they make a dramatic exit
from Egypt reminds us of other famous escapes, like the one in the Bible where the Israelites
leave Egypt. Similarly, the story where the pharaoh falls for a married woman who eventually goes back
to her husband can be compared to a couple of the tales from the Bible. There's one about Abram
and Sarah in Egypt, and another about a king named Abimelech. One cool detail in the play,
Caster and Pollux, step in to tell Theocliminus that he's about to make a big mistake with Helen.
This is a lot like the part in the Bible when God appears in a dream to warn Abimelech about
Sarah being a married woman. It's interesting how these ancient stories can have so many
similarities. Theoscary. Restrain those bursts of rage that hurry thee to undo links. Theocliminus,
king of this country, we are the twin sons of Zeus that call to thee by name, whom laid a bore one
day, with Helen too, who hath fled from thy palace, for thou art wroth for marriage never
destined for thee. Long, long ago had we our sisters saved, seeing that Zeus had made us gods.
But we were too weak for destiny as well as the deities who will these things to be. Helen, 1650
to 60. While Greek stories don't talk about Abraham pretending his wife is his sister,
there's a fascinating similarity between the Telominalaeus and Helen running from Egypt and
the biblical Exodus story. Here's the gist. Moses tries to fool Pharaoh by asking to take a three
day journey to make a special offering to God. Even though Pharaoh isn't too keen on the idea,
he faces a series of terrible events or plagues. First, water turns to blood, then frogs overrun
the land, Pharaoh's magicians copy these tricks so he's not phased, but then gnats and flies invade,
making Pharaoh briefly give in only to change his mind later. More disasters follow from sick
livestock, to painful boils, and even a hellstorm. Through all this back and forth, the Egyptian
peoples start getting worried about the powerful God of Israel. At some points, Pharaoh seems to
agree to let the Israelites go, but adds conditions. After even more troubles, including swarms of
locust and complete darkness, Pharaoh nearly gives in, but when Moses insists on taking their animals
with them, Pharaoh hesitates again. The last straw is the tragic death of all Egyptian firstborns.
Finally, Pharaoh gives in. Now, the fun part is that Moses' negotiation tactics are a lot like
what Menelaus does in the play Helen by Euripides. Both have sneaky plans behind the request. Just
like Menelaus wants to escape under the guise of a distant sacrifice, Moses seems to be playing a
similar game. In the play, when asked why they need to go so far for the sacrifice, Menelaus says
it's because the waves might bring some of it back to shore. Moses, on the other hand, points
out differences in their customs to justify his request. And just like Menelaus wants Helen with
him, Moses insists everyone should be allowed to leave Egypt, not just the men. Interestingly,
both stories even have a bit about who should provide the animals for the sacrifices. And
amidst all this, there's a touch of humor as Pharaoh's own people get exacerbated with him,
begging him to let the Israelites leave.
The Trouble at Elephantine. Moses once said something that's pretty intriguing.
Then Pharaoh summoned Moses and Aaron and said, Go sacrifice to your God within the land. But
Moses said it would not be right to do so for the sacrifices that we offer to the Lord, our God,
are offensive to the Egyptians. If we offer in the sight of the Egyptian sacrifices that are
offensive to them, will they not stone us? Exodus 8, 25 to 26. Interestingly, there's an ancient
document that supports this sentiment of Egyptians getting upset over Judean sacrifices. It's called
the Elephantine papyri. Around 500 BCE, Judeans made offerings that included rams, which upset the
Egyptians because they worshipped K'nom, a ram god. This tension got so bad that the Egyptian
priests, with some backing from their Persian overlords, burnt down the Judean temple dedicated
to Yahweh. We know about this event from a letter where the Judeans ask for money to rebuild.
You're servant Yataniah, son of Gamaria, the name Mazi, son of Nathan, the name Shamaya,
son of Haggai, the name Hosea, son of Yatum, and the name Hosea, son of Yatum. Five men from
Sinia, who reside in Elephantine, the fortress, speak so. If our Lord wishes it, the sanctuary of
Yahweh, our God, will be built in Elephantine, the fortress, as it was before. And neither slaughter
of rams, oxens, nor he goats will be offered. Only incense and ablation will be offered. May
the Lord look into this. Here's an extra tidbit. The Judeans in Elephantine apparently didn't follow
the Bible's guidelines strictly. Even though they worshipped Yahweh, they had their own temple and
celebrated Passover in a way that's different from its biblical origin. This clash with Egyptian
beliefs is reflected in Moses' words about how their practices would be seen as disrespectful to
Egyptians. Basically, a dispute from around 500 BC is hinting at a much older story,
perhaps because readers from the Hellenistic period would recognize the reference. Fun fact,
Moses' name is never mentioned by any evidence we have from Elephantine Egypt.
Splitting the Red Sea
Remember how the tale of Joseph reminded some of Odysseus' make-believe journey to Egypt?
Odysseus in his tale talks about how he went to Egypt after the famous Trojan War. Although he
instructed his crew not to harm the locals, they didn't listen. They attacked the Egyptian men and
kidnapped their women and kids. As you can guess, this angered the Egyptians.
The alarm was soon carried to the city and when they heard the war cry, the people came at daybreak
till the plane was filled with horsemen and foot soldiers and with the gleam of armor,
then Zeus spread panic among my men and they would no longer face the enemy. For they found
themselves surrounded. The Egyptians killed many of us and took the rest alive to do forced labor
for them. Odyssey, Book 14. In the biblical story, Pharaoh gears up to chase the Israelites with his
mighty army. So he had his chariot made ready and took his army with him. He took 600-picked chariots
and all the other chariots of Egypt with officers over all of them. The Lord hardened the heart of
Pharaoh, king of Egypt, and he pursued the Israelites who were going out boldly. The Egyptians
pursued them, the Pharaoh's horses and chariots, his chariot drivers and his army. They overtook
them, camped by the sea, by Pihor, in front of Baal Zaffan. As Pharaoh drew near, the Israelites
looked back and there were the Egyptians advancing on them. In great fear, the Israelites cried out
to the Lord. Exodus 14, 6-10. Ben, in a jaw-dropping moment, Moses waves his hand, causing the Red
Sea to split in two. The Israelites hurry across, with the sea acting like solid walls on either
side. But when the Egyptians try to follow, Moses waves his hands again, the sea comes crashing
back down, drowning the Egyptians. Funny enough, there's a pretty similar story mentioned by the
ancient historian Herodotus. When three months had gone by while Artobazos was besieging the town,
there came to be a great ebb of the sea backwards, which lasted for a long time. And the barbarians
seen that shallow water had been produced, endeavored to get by into the peninsula of Palin,
but when they had passed through two-fifths parts of the distance, and yet three-fifths
remained, which they must pass through before they were in the Palin, then there came upon them a
great flood tide of the sea, higher than ever before. As the natives of the place say, though,
high tides come often, so those of them who could not swim perished, and those who could,
were slain by the men of Potatia, who put out to them in boats. The cause of the high tide and flood,
and of that which befell the Persians, was this. As the Potidians say, namely that these same Persians
who perished by means of the sea had committed impiety towards the temple of Poseidon and his
image in the suburb of their town. And it's saying that this was the cause, in my opinion,
they say well. The survivors of his army, Artobazos, led away to Thessaly to join Mardonius. Herodotus,
Book 8. The Bible's author blended together Odysseus's adventures in Egypt and a story by
Herodotus about waters that briefly pulled back, all to enrich the Exodus tale, which was also
influenced by a play called Helen by Euripides. On top of all this, they sprinkled in some ideas
from the philosopher Plato. It's like a mixtape of ancient stories and thoughts. The Exodus and
Plato's Cave Allegory is scholarly interpretation. In the Republic, Book 7, Plato channeling
Socrates delineates a profound allegory where individuals have been bound in a subterranean
cavern for their entire existence. Their perceptions are confined to the cave's interior wall,
upon which the mere silhouettes of external realities are cast. Intriguingly, when one of
these captives is liberated and exposed to the genuine external world, the sheer brilliance of
truth becomes almost blinding. Gradually, this individual discerns that the realities within
the cave are mere representations of the actual world outside. The solar radiance symbolizes the
idea of the good, expressing compassion for his peers, who misconstrue the shadows for divine
entities. Socrates argues that the enlightened one should re-enter the cave to emancipate his
peers. Nevertheless, this altruistic act might be met with derision or even aggression from those
still ensnared by ignorance. This narrative epitomizes Plato's theory of forms, suggesting our
tangible world is but a shadow of a more profound intangible reality. This superior reality, however,
is elusive, accessible solely to philosophers who fathom the quintessential idea of the good,
symbolically representing the supreme deity as further elaborated in Plato's Timaeus.
There's an interesting parallelism between the Platonic Cave Allegory and the Exodus narrative.
The Israelites, thriving in numbers, are enslaved by a new pharaoh. Moses, eluding this
subjugation, seeks refuge in Midian. It is here that he receives a divine revelation,
instructing him to emancipate the Israelites and guide them to the Promised Land. However,
this newly established community parallels Plato's ideal city, founded upon exemplary
legislation. The inside of the biblical author is evident in the closeness of the cave's prisoners
with the Israelites, illustrating a transition from illusion to an enlightened, divinely ordained
polity. This metaphorical city is not merely a geopolitical entity, but embodies the collective
soul of Israel, emancipated from the tyrannical clutches of pharaoh to embrace divine providence.
This concept of resistance to enlightenment is mirrored in the Exodus when the Israelites display
reluctance in their journey. Their initial grievances indicate a preference for Egyptian
servitude over potential death in the wilderness. Subsequent complaints signify their discontent
and even potential mutiny against Moses. Plato's narrative foreshadows the tragic demise of
Socrates, condemned by his Athenian contemporaries. Such parallels suggest that the biblical text
subtly integrates Platonic philosophy, particularly evident upon inspecting the Pentateuch's
legislative sections. The Genesis prologue exhibits traces of multiple Platonic dialogues,
including Timaeus, Phyto, Symposium, and Statesmen. With access to the complete Platonic corpus,
the biblical narrative stresses laws over the Republic, allegorically retracing the Argonauts
expedition, or in the quest for the Golden Fleece, transmutes into a pursuit of divine
legislation. A deeper exploration of these divine laws offer profound insights. I hope you've already
had your fill of Greek explorations with the Moses myth, but the next dish will serve as
10 surprising portions. Egyptian 10 Plagues
As children, we learn stories such as Noah's flood and his ark about the Exodus and the 10
Plagues of Egypt. At that age, before we have learned the difference between possible and
impossible, plausible and implausible, we can be forgiven for thinking they were reasonable and
true, but they are arguably incredibly implausible, theologically nonsensical and perhaps even
impossible. Evidence of both Noah's flood and the 10 Plagues is thin on the ground. We are left
having to evaluate probabilities and all too often resort to motivated reasoning. We believe
things because we want or need to believe them rather than being justified and believing them
based on sound evidence. The maxim, Extraordinary Claims Require Extraordinary Evidence is a good
guide to help us evaluate different claims. The more outrageous the claim is that is being made,
the better the evidence we require if we are going to believe it. The claims of the Exodus
accounts found in the Hebrew Bible are Extraordinary Claims, especially those concerning the 10 Plagues
of Egypt. It seems we are unjustified in believing the Extraordinary stories of the 10 Plagues of
Egypt. There is no evidence that they took place other than the claims inside the Bible. They are
philosophically nonsensical. They make Yahweh look like a moral monster. At the time, the Pharaoh was
refusing to let Moses' people go to escape from bondage. The problem is, it looks like it isn't
Pharaoh doing the refusing. Then the Lord said to Moses, See, I have made you as God to Pharaoh,
and your brother Aaron shall be a prophet. As for you, you shall speak all that I command you,
and your brother Aaron shall speak to Pharaoh, that he let the sons of Israel go out of his hand.
But I will harden Pharaoh's heart so that I may multiply my signs and my wonders, the land of
Egypt. When Pharaoh does not listen to you, I will lay my hand on Egypt and bring out my armies,
my people, the sons of Israel, from the land of Egypt by great judgments. Then the Egyptians shall
know that I and the Lord, when I extend my hand over Egypt and bring out the sons of Israel from
their midst, Exodus 7. God admits that he would harden Pharaoh's heart so that the power of Yahweh
would be shown to the Egyptians, and his signs and wonders would be evident across the land of
Egypt. What are these wonders that the all-loving God brought about on the people, animals, and
ecosystems of Egypt? It depends on how you define wonder. It depends on what you mean by all-loving.
Here are the ten quite terrible plagues. All the rivers and streams throughout Egypt were turned
to blood. Frogs ran rampant throughout the land, from border to border. All the land of Egypt was
infested with lice or gnats. Egypt and the houses of Egyptians were attacked by swarms of flies.
Diseases were meaded out upon horses, asses, camels, oxen, and sheep. All Egyptian livestock
died. Boils were inflicted upon man and beast alike. Egypt had a devastating hellstorm. The
pitiful, remaining crops were further decimated by a massive plague of locusts. Three days of
thick darkness consumed. The firstborn of every family and beast in the land of Egypt died. At
first sight, these events appear horrendous. Is this really the behavior of an all-loving God?
There were millions of Egyptians living the length and breadth of Egypt who had nothing to do with
the Hebrews, who had likely never met one, who had their crops destroyed, their animals diseased,
and covered in boils, who had their firstborns die, and those of their livestock. The life of
these people was a determined misery, and these influences were out of their control, and even
the control of the Pharaoh. Instead, they were in the hands of an all-powerful, all-loving God. And
this God could have simply and very easily in all his power appeared to the Pharaoh and made him say
yes. God was punishing all Egyptians, their children, and their animals. But were all these
people and animals equally responsible for the decision to enslave the Hebrews? Even a two-year-old
firstborn toddler, a cow? God punishes all these people and animals instead of hardening Pharaoh's
heart to simply say yes. Using these people and animals instrumentally as tools is something that
doesn't fit with the usual morality set out by religious believers. Using people as a means to
an end is arguably a part of secular, utilitarian morality. Here, Yahweh does it in abundance.
One simple word would have averted all this pain and suffering. The course of the lives of those
Egyptians, however, was forever changed, and they were punished for the transgression of one single
person, the Pharaoh. But the Pharaoh was himself controlled by God. His will hardened so that he
has no other option but to say no. These events, of course, have all the signs of a myth, especially
given there is no reasonable scientific evidence to suggest that these events happened in the way
the Bible details, if at all. But the claims are perhaps disconfirmed by what we know about the Egyptians
following these incredible signs and wonders that showed God's supreme power. You see, the simple
fact is that no Egyptian seems to have ever even known about Yahweh, let alone believed in the
supremely powerful plague delivering God for a good millennium after the events supposedly took
place. God himself explains why he did what he did. Then the Egyptians shall know that I am the Lord.
Except the Egyptians didn't know that he was Lord. The earliest evidence of a Jewish community or
Jewish belief in Egypt comes from the Elephantine papyri, which detail a garrison of Jewish soldiers
stationed at a frontier post. And even with these papyri, the evidence is that they held to a Babylonian
style polytheism, not what we now understand as Orthodox Judaism. This was in 400 BCE, almost
a thousand years after the time of Moses. And then we hear of Judaism in the third century BCE,
with waves of Jews moving in. There were concerns of Jewish immigration as opposed to large-scale
deconversion from Egyptian religion to Judaism. In other words, we have no evidence of the plagues
ever taking place. God is implicated as morally culpable for them, and there is disconfirming
evidence that they happened at all. This is important since they are arguably one of the most
famous elements of the story of Moses. In any other religion, these events would clearly be seen
as mythological. So why did Judaism and Christianity get a free pass? So where do these plagues really
come from, if not history? If they are mythical, what was their symbolic value? And lie ten instead
of three or three thousand. One interesting suggestion is that there is a reverse creation
of the world. As the plagues represent the order of creation in the Genesis account,
note that at the beginning of the Exodus story, the Israelites were fulfilling the
commandment of God to be fruitful and multiply. But then Pharaoh is working against this commandment,
including the death to all male Hebrew babies. If Pharaoh is going to work against the God-given
commandments of creation, then Egypt will be uncreated. Here we find striking parallels between
the Exodus plagues, the Acts of Pharaoh, and the creation accounts of Genesis 1 through 2.
First, we note that there are ten plagues, and God speaks ten times in the priestly creation
account in Genesis 1. Second, seven times is the phrase, you will know that I am Yahweh used,
splitting the ten plagues into groups. The number seven also recalls the seven days of creation.
We are pointed towards reading the seven in the plague narrative as destruction and recreation
when we turn to the ten commandments, specifically the version found in Deuteronomy 5 15.
You shall remember that you were a slave in the land of Egypt, and the Lord your God brought
you out from there with a mighty hand, outstretched arms. Therefore the Lord your God commanded you
to keep the Sabbath day. Notice that the Sabbath as a day of rest is not because of the day that
God rested after creating the world, but because God brought the Israelites out of Egypt. It is
also with the last plague that the important festival of Passover is situated. There seems to
be a strong connection then between the Acts of God at creation, His Acts against Egypt,
and the commandments. And this may help as an interpretive key for the ten plagues. Lastly,
we find that the number of plagues was not ten, but seven in Psalms 105 and 78, and their lists of
plagues differ. So it seems the author of Exodus is boosting the number from seven to ten, but
retaining a structure of sevens. And so the first plague is a sign against the first sin of the
Pharaoh, the death of Egyptian males. The Nile is the lifeline of the nation, and turning it to blood
is a pretty straightforward way of speaking of the blood on the Pharaoh's hands. Then came the
frogs. This may show the original divide between land and sea is breaking down. The amphibious
creatures no longer merely a water animal, but now coming out of the Nile and infesting the land.
The primordial ordering of the place of animals is slipping away. On to the third plague, with
gnats. Here the gnats specifically are transformed from the dust of the ground after Moses had
struck the land. Note in particular, the gnats don't merely come out of the ground, but dust
transforms into insects. The dust of the land becoming a plague is a straightforward reversal
of life of animals, and especially humans, who were created from dust. Then comes the flies as
the fourth plague. You might think if everyone is already covered in gnats, there won't be much
room for flies as well. However, the flies are also said to fill the land. They seem to have
fruitfully multiplied, but to the detriments to the Egyptians. God had said in Genesis 122 to want
flying creatures multiply in the land, and so here they are. These three plagues also form
an interesting triad. Frogs, gnats, and flies represent water, land, and sky. All is filled
with destruction for the Egyptians. The next plague, pestilence, was inflicted not on people,
but only filled animals. This finds itself reversing Genesis 2 18-20, wherein animals are
created for the benefit of humans. Well, that benefit is now dying around the Egyptians. All
the while, the Israelites are avoiding the punishments needed out by Yahweh. The sixth plague,
that of boils, is directly at humans, and it may be best understood as making the Egyptians
impure. This does not seem to obviously parallel the Genesis account, but it does make the Egyptians
no longer special and holy. The introduction of the plague also has some creation imagery,
as Moses takes up dust and throws it into the air to infect the Egyptians with boils.
Once again, dust and anti-creation are combined. When we turn to the seventh and eighth plagues,
hell and locus, they are the destruction of vegetation. As the animals have been killed off,
then the plants would be the next part of the original creation to be undone. Exodus 10 15
states that after these plagues, nothing green was left of tree or grass of the field in all the
land of Egypt. Again, a powerful reversal of Genesis 1-12, the land brought forth vegetation,
seed bearing fruit with seed in it. If we are following the reverse of creation so far,
then we are back to the original things made by God, light as separate from darkness. And so
the ninth plague is darkness in all the land. For three days, the original order of day and night
is gone. In fact, darkness was even more severe, as the Egyptians could not even see each other,
while the Israelites had their own lights. Not only was the sun gone, but light itself was no
longer in the land for the Egyptians. This was a powerful return to the beginning state of the
universe when darkness was over the face of the deep. Last but not least, the tenth plague has
only left to undo the terrible commands of Pharaoh, as now it is Egyptian males who are put to death,
reversing the destruction towards the Israelite male infants. This final desolation against Egypt
not only established the Passover celebration, but it finally breaks the will of the Pharaoh to let
the Israelites go from bondage. Pharaoh and his nation have been devastated by poetic justice,
but this is not the justice of a God that we'd expect with enlightenment virtues. This cruel
destruction of homes and humans, cattle and commoners, plants and people is above and beyond
anything we would call a proportionate response. All the more so when God hardened Pharaoh's
heart so that God had the excuse to keep the punishments coming for the sake of theology,
it is probably better that this part of the story didn't happen. Not all myths are happy ones,
but a terrible myth is better than a terrible punishment. These punishments were meted out
because Pharaoh would not or could not be convinced by Moses and Aaron to let the Israelites go.
If only God had given them some potent signs before unleashing cosmic terrors on the land.
Oh, but didn't God teach Moses a few magic tricks before approaching the Pharaoh? Snake mythology.
Picture this. Moses and Aaron are in Egypt trying to convince Pharaoh to let their people go.
To prove they mean business, Aaron throws down his staff. Poof, it turns into a snake.
Sounds like a cool magic trick, right? But then Pharaoh's own magicians do the same thing.
Still, in a surprising twist, Aaron's snake staff eats the others. Now, if you're scratching your
head thinking, what's the snake staff's magic? It helps to know a bit about ancient Egyptian
culture. It also signals that we are dealing with mythology. For those who've dived into
Egyptian history, the snake staff isn't just a random magical item. Ancient Egyptian art is full
of these serpent staffs. Gods like Thoth, Nahidku, and Heka are often shown holding them. But why
snakes? Well, in Egypt, creatures like snakes, crocodiles, and scorpions were seen as protective
symbols against harmful animals. But snakes weren't just about protection. In Egyptian mythology,
they had many roles and were linked to several gods and goddesses like Apophis,
Hathor, and Isis, to name a few. So when Aaron and the pharaohs, magicians, had a snake staff showdown,
it wasn't just about who had the better trick. It was a deep cultural and spiritual challenge,
rooted in beliefs that went back centuries. Was the snake staff seen just a cultural
reflection of an old Egyptian magic trick where people trained snakes to act stiff as a rod?
There may be evidence to support this idea. We will continue showing the snake mythology
because this scene could fit into the broader myth where the bronze serpent in the wilderness
gets a scene. The serpent staff in the wilderness may have mythological associations with Egypt,
but let's explore a few other ideas. In the old days, like ancient Greece old,
there was this god called Asclepius, who was all about healing. Picture him with a staff and a snake
slithering around it. Fast forward a bit, and the Romans had a similar figure named Asclepius,
with the same snake staff set up. Today, this symbol has become an international shorthand for
medicine. Now, there's another similar looking symbol, a staff with not one, but two snakes,
plus a pair of wings at the top. You might see this on ambulances. This one belongs to
Hermes in Greece and Mercury in Rome. While it's often mixed up with our first symbol and called
a caduceus, it's technically the Hermes-Mercury one. Hermes wasn't into medicine like Asclepius.
Instead, he was the go-to god for delivering messages and guiding souls to the afterlife.
So when you see this on an ambulance, it's less about the medicine and more about speedy service
and the journey of life. It's fascinating how symbols from thousands of years ago still
show up in our modern world, isn't it? The stories they tell connect us with ancient civilizations
and remind us of our shared human journey. Within the biblical framework,
serpents often depicted as multi-headed sea monsters play a significant role, embodying
primordial forces that are ultimately subdued by the divine. These creatures, reminiscent of
primordial antagonists, resonate with broader ancient Near Eastern traditions wherein deities
engage in epic cosmic battles against agents of chaos, especially those emerging from watery
depths. Unnotable divergence exists. While neighboring cultures frequently conceptualized
the cosmos as a battleground between inherent evil and order, the biblical narrative leans
toward a worldview where the cosmos intrinsically reflects divine goodness. Yet the biblical
tradition does not stand isolated. It dialogues and integrates motifs familiar to its ancient
audience as evident in verses such as Isaiah 27.1, Isaiah 51.9, and Psalms 74.13-14, among others.
Serpents, while sometimes symbols of fertility and prosperity in the ancient Near East,
frequently manifest as adversaries conquered by deities, notably storm gods. Ugaritic literature,
a vital corpus from the ancient Levantine city of Ugarit, offers categories of divine beings,
benevolent deities, often anthropomorphic and associated with tamed animals,
and their destructive counterparts, typically linked with wild creatures and monstrous forms,
including serpents. Artifacts from the early Bronze Age, particularly old Anatolian and old
Syrian sills, frequently depict storm deities triumphing over serpent adversaries. Additionally,
in Canaanite mythology, figures like the goddess Anat and the god Baal confront multi-headed
serpents, such as Lotan and Entity analogous to the biblical Leviathan. A compelling parallel
can be drawn between the description in Isaiah 27.1 and a Ugaritic passage detailing the defeat of
the serpent Leitan. The destruction of this chaos agent leads to cosmic repercussions. In some,
the motif of divine triumph over chaotic serpents transcends cultural boundaries,
serving as a testament to shared themes and narratives in the ancient Near East.
Snakes are found everywhere and knowing exactly which mythology influenced the serpent motif
in the Moses story will depend on what one highlights the most. I think the geographical
setting of Egypt should allow the Egyptian mythology to have primary influence on the
Moses myth, but we know that these earlier ancient Near Eastern mythologies influenced the Greek
mythology. So if these authors were influenced with the serpent staff from the Greek Asclepius,
it wouldn't shock me one bit. The moral of this story, friends, is that it is mythology and not
history. But let's take a closer look at the law givers in the ancient world.
1. Laying Down the Law
Where do laws come from? Today, we understand them coming about through a political process of
legislation and ruling by judges. But if you were a king in antiquity, how did you convince
someone of your authority, let alone righteousness? Claims of a greater power giving you the right
to make laws would go a long way. Even today, many theists will claim that morality can only exist
by founding all laws and morals in the commandments of the deity. In the ancient Near East, it wasn't
all that different. The quintessential example of a king showcasing their fitness to legislate
is the Babylonian king Hammurabi. His famous code, composed and etched into stone by 1750 BCE,
stands today in the Louvre Museum in Paris, an ancient witness to the king's claims to divine
right. Atop this stilly is an image of Hammurabi, the king and the sun god Shamash. Shamash was
not just there to be radiant, as he was also the god of law and justice. In this relief,
Shamash is passing along signs of rulership to Hammurabi. In the epilogue of the inscription
below this relief, it says, The king who ruleth among the kings of the cities, am I, my words
are well considered. There is no wisdom unlike unto mine. By the command of Shamash,
the great judge of heaven and earth, let righteousness go forth in the land. Hammurabi,
the king of righteousness, on who Shamash has conferred right or law, am I. My words are well
considered. My deeds are not equaled, to bring low those that were high, to humble the proud,
to expel insolence. Among the prescriptions in this code, some sound just a little bit biblical.
If an ox be a gore ox, and it is shown that he is a gore, and he do not bind his horns or fasten
the oxen up, and the ox gore a freeborn man and kill him, the owner shall pay one half amina in
money. Compare that to Exodus 21, 29 through 30. If however, the bull has had the habit of goreing,
and the owner has been warned, but has not kept it penned up, and it kills a man or woman,
the bull is to be stoned, and its owner is also to be put to death. However,
if payment is demanded, the owner may redeem his life by the payment of whatever is demanded.
Pretty similar, though the biblical injunction seems harsher than the Babylonian version.
Nonetheless, it doesn't take a Yahweh to tell someone how to write up a law about an animal
out of control. Even more starkly, similar is code 196 compared to Exodus 21, 23 through 25.
If a man put out the eye of another man, his eye shall be put out. But if there is serious injury,
you are to take life for life. Eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot,
burn for burn, wound for wound, bruise for bruise. While there may not be a strong
case of genetic connection between these law codes, the similarities do suggest there were
common ideas floating around in antiquity, and no, the biblical laws are not older,
not by a long shot. After all, the code of Hammurabi was written centuries before the alleged time of
the Exodus, and we have the actual inscription itself, not the story of why the original laws
of God were smashed and lost, composed perhaps centuries later, still. So we know, before any
Hebrew writer put stylus to clay, the idea that the gods provided the laws was well established,
and the same sorts of laws were used in these legal codes written over centuries.
Centuries later, the need to at least claim a divine source for the laws was expected.
In Plato's unfinished dialogue, the aptly named Laws has its characters make plenty of claims
of grandiose origins to the laws of various Greek peoples. The Cretans said they got their laws from
Zeus, who was born on that island. The Spartans got their laws from the Oracle of Delphi,
an oracle in communion with Apollo. In the works of Plato, the Athenians say their laws were revealed
by their goddess of wisdom, Athena. Other law codes and inscriptions by the Greeks and Romans
would all claim at least the seal of approval by the gods. If anything, someone claiming that the
laws were due to the laws of nature and the rights of men and women would have been a stranger in a
strange land. There is no mystery in saying that someone received laws for a god, even if it were
a myth. So there is nothing strange for the laws of the Hebrew Bible to be claimed as of divine
origin, even if they are not any more likely to have been god given than the laws of Athens,
Crete, and Babylon. But if you wanted to talk to the gods directly and get the law from them,
how would you do it? Where would you go? Well, fortunately, it was well known where the gods
lived, up there, above. Often at the top of a mountain, famously in Greece, there was Mount
Olympus, where Zeus and his fellow deities resided. But plenty of other mythologies had a council
of gods living at the top of a tall mountain. Closer to the Holy Land was Mount Zephan,
along the modern Syrian-Turkish border. Here, the Ugaritic Pantheon lived and conducted business.
What is interesting is that the location of the Ugaritic gods was not some mystery to the Jews,
because the prophet Isaiah knows this place and its importance. In his prophecy against some
unnamed and boastful Babylonian king, Isaiah says the king wants to climb up Mount Zephan
and be above the gods. You said to yourself, I will ascend to heaven. I will raise my throne
above the stars of God. I will sit on the mount of assembly and the heights of Zephan. I will ascend
to the tops of the clouds. I will make myself like the Most High, Isaiah 14.
So, plenty of Jews knew that the place to find the assembly of gods was up a high mountain.
Is there any mystery then that if Moses wanted to go and visit God, he would need to ascend a
tall mountain? Just like a Greek would have to climb Mount Olympus, or a man from Ugarit would
have to climb Mount Zephan. Unless we forget, the mountain of God was a place Israelites visited
all the time in Jerusalem, Mount Zion. If we look to the Jewish prophetic literature,
we find another place for visiting the divine realm and at the top of a mountain. In the vision,
the prophet Ezekiel as recorded in Ezekiel 42-4. In visions of God, he took me to the land of Israel
and set me on a very high mountain on whose south side were some buildings that looked like a city.
He took me there and I saw a man whose appearance was like bronze, who was standing in the gateway
with a linen cord and a measuring rod in his hand. The man said to me, Son of man,
look carefully and listen closely and pay attention to everything I'm about to show you.
For that is why you have been brought here. Tell the people of Israel everything you see.
Ezekiel then gets a collection of rules to follow for the proper building of a temple.
Later in Ezekiel 43-2, God is seen. I saw the glory of God of Israel coming from the east.
His voice was like the roar of rushing waters and the land was radiant with his glory. Here again,
we have the ever radiant sun-like deity, visitations at the top of a mountain and the delivery of
instructions from mortals to follow. When we come to Moses the lawgiver, then the imagery of a righteous
man receiving a set of legal codes from a God was not extraordinary. Going up a mountain to chat with
the deity was also understandable, though only the worthy could ascend to the divine realm and
return. We should also remember that when Moses returned from his mountaintop chat with God in
Exodus 34 carrying the two tablets of commandments, his face was glowing. Encounters with the divine
are special affairs and often deities are radiant, but we also should note that the specific God of
righteousness and Babylonian myth was the Sun God and even Yahweh could get in on the sunny action
since Malachi 4-2 calls God the Son of Righteousness. This shining radiance of God may also be hinted
at by the location of God's mountain. Depending on which story you are reading, the place that
Moses received God's commandments was called either Mount Sinai or Mount Horeb. While it is
strange that the Bible isn't consistent with the name of this holy place, the meaning of these places
may provide another interesting clue to the creativity of the biblical authors. The name
Horeb comes from a root word meaning a dry place, but the name is potentially derived from the word
har to mean glowing or burning. Sinai may also allow for some interesting wordplay. In Hebrew,
Sinai is similar sounding to Sinai, the name of a kind of bush. Ah, the burning bush was first
encountered on Mount Horeb, according to Exodus 3, a burning Sinai on the mountain of burning
Horeb, which is otherwise called Sinai. The artistry is wonderful, is it not? Combining
tropes of divine legal codes, radiant mountaintop gods, and some wordplay, and we truly have here
a good book. But one will be hard pressed to find the locations of these mountains. While we know
the exact position of the summits of Olympus and Zephan, the place of Mount Sinai has been suggested
anywhere from Saudi Arabia to Syria. If you think the mountain has to obviously be in the modern Sinai
peninsula, you will need to know the peninsula gets its name from one of the alleged places
of the mountain, not vice versa. This is just one more example of dogma trying to remake reality.
Fact is, there probably wasn't a burning bush talking to Moses, because there probably wasn't a
Moses at all. Did Moses write the Torah and about his own death? Now I hear you saying,
of course we know Moses existed, and did all sorts of amazing things, because he wrote the Torah.
Do you really doubt a person existed if they wrote a book about their life and accomplishments?
And indeed, the tradition that Moses wrote the first five books of the Hebrew Bible was well
established by the time of Christianity. In John 5.46, Jesus says, If you believed Moses,
you would believe me, for he wrote about me. But modern scholarship doubts there is a single
author to this collection of books, and the evidence is considerable. But for now,
let's assume for the sake of argument that Moses was the author or editor of the Torah.
If that were true, then there will be some rather strange occurrences in this book.
One oddity is that Moses likes to talk about himself a lot in the third person.
Instead of saying, I said to Pharaoh, let my people go. Exodus 5.1 reads,
Moses and Aaron went to Pharaoh and said, Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel, let my people go.
If Moses wrote this, then why is he writing like Moses is another person than the narrator?
Do we think this was a normal habit for Moses? Did he normally sit at the dinner table and say,
Moses would like hummus with Moses's matzah? Not likely. Additionally, Moses must have lacked
any sense of irony if he wrote this. Now, Moses was a very humble man, more humble than anyone
else on the face of the earth. Amazing if Moses could see God and be filled with wisdom,
but he couldn't see the absurdity claiming to be the best at being humble. There are additional
signs that the person writing the book of Deuteronomy places themselves in the Holy Land. For example,
Moses is giving a speech to the Israelites while on the other side of the Jordan River in Deuteronomy
1.1. Moses would never cross over the river into Palestine. So, writing about Moses on the other
side of or beyond the Jordan is written from the perspective of someone not beyond the Jordan. In
other words, someone writing inside of Palestine. Some biblical translations hide this little detail
and perhaps they must because of the problems it causes. But the words are Bavaire Hayardin,
meaning in the region beyond the Jordan. That's how it was understood by the translators of the
Hebrew into Greek, how it was translated by Jerome into Latin and how it was translated into German
by Martin Luther. Such a clue indicates that the author of this book isn't Moses. Perhaps the most
obvious problem is how Moses writes about his own death. And Moses, the servant of the Lord,
died there in Moab as the Lord had said. He buried him in Moab in the valley opposite of Beth
Piorre. But to this day, no one knows where his grave is. Moses was 120 years old when he died,
yet his eyes were not weak nor his strength gone. The Israelites grieved for Moses and the planes
of Moab 30 days until the time of weeping and mourning was over. Deuteronomy 34.
Wouldn't you agree that it's pretty hard to write about one's own death and the funeral
that happened after? And no one knows where he was buried. Quote to this day, end quote.
Doesn't that suggest a long time has passed? And if you think this was prophecy, then why did
Moses not know where he was buried? This snippet of text is clearly written by someone not even
pretending to be Moses and composed many years after the alleged time of the great leader. Even
evangelicals will concede that Moses didn't write this portion of the Torah suggesting that
Joshua filled in the final gaps. So that means Moses did write the Pentateuch except where he
didn't. Yeah, that's the ticket. Let's look at this without the Moses tinted glasses. If this
were any other text and it showed signs that it had parts that could not have been written by the
person tradition alleges wrote it, we wouldn't make excuses for that tradition unless there is
actual positive evidence that Moses wrote anything. Then supposing he wrote everything
minus the last part of Deuteronomy is dogma, not data pile this on top of the additional negative
evidence and we can only have one conclusion. Whoever wrote the Pentateuch, it probably wasn't
Moses. Heck, it probably wasn't even a single composition. But let's leave the documentary
hypothesis for another time. We can't go into all the evidence against mosaic authorship today.
Besides, we have a bigger problem in Exodus without a Moses, Exodus myth, a growing cultural memory.
The origins of the tradition that the Israelites were enslaved in Egypt and then rescued is still
debated by scholars, even when ignoring the fundamentalist claiming every jot and tittle
the Bible's 100% history. However, we will explore one approach to understanding the
story of the Exodus, not by reading the story in its current form, but what impact the tradition
had on Jews through the centuries. In other words, let's trace out the cultural memory
of the Exodus tradition and see how it changes over time. You might be surprised to see what and who
is and is not in the story. When it comes to tracking down that history, we need data sources
and here we can potentially rely on the works attributed to the prophets of ancient Israel
and Judah. We do have to be careful of the work of the quill or stylus of a later editor, but the
prophets of the time before and during the Babylonian exile can help us see what was
central to the psyche of people in Palestine. Among the oldest of the prophets in the Hebrew
Bible, there is Amos from the northern kingdom of Israel. Several passages seem to know of an
Exodus tradition, but one verse is particularly interesting here. In Amos 9-7, he said,
Are you not like the Kushites to me, O people of Israel, says the Lord. Did I not bring Israel up
from the land of Egypt and the Philistines from Kaptor and the Arameans from Kyr? Wait, the God
of Israel, Isaac and Jacob, rescued not just the Israelites, but also the Philistines and Arameans?
These are the same Philistines that will be causing trouble for the judges and first kings of
Israel, and God also saved them from bondage? It's almost as if there wasn't all that special
of a relationship between God and His chosen people, but when were these people brought up?
The Bible doesn't provide much in the way of clues, but modern archaeology has explored a time
when the Philistines and Arameans came to prominence and it was at the end of the Bronze Age. In fact,
the catalyst seems to be the Bronze Age collapse when the great civilizations of 2nd millennium
BCE faded out, some disappearing forever. The only country to mostly survive the collapse
and the merating sea peoples of this time was Egypt. Yet, Egypt was then so weak it lost its
holdings in Palestine, allowing the people to become free. The Philistines were the descendants
of some of those very sea peoples as they were allowed to live in the region of modern-day Gaza.
The Arameans emerged after the decline of the Middle Assyrian Empire at around the same time,
and we know from an Egyptian stillie a century before the Bronze Age collapsed.
There was a people group called Israel in northern Palestine, and the Egyptian army controlled them
up until the Egyptian Empire crumbled with the rest of the Ancient Near East.
So it was not because of divine intervention, but general regional instability that these
people groups began to throw off the yoke of great powers. Perhaps then the germ of the Exodus
sprouted, not from the splitting of the Red Sea, but land left behind by the faltering Ancient
Near Eastern powers. If we turn to a contemporary Israelite prophet, Hosea, he also knows of the
Exodus tradition. He doesn't say anything about Philistines as part of the rescue package,
and instead he focuses on the specialness of Israel to God. However, neither Hosea nor Amos,
as best as we can tell, know of the most spectacular parts of the Exodus story,
and at best there are hints of a time in the wilderness. Most astounding, neither prophet
names the leader of the Jews out of Egypt. Look, and you will not find the name of Moses.
Hosea is at best coy when he said in 1213 that the Israelites were brought out of Egypt by a prophet.
Does he not know who it was that was called by God? Strange, is it not? But let's keep going.
If we turn to contemporary prophets in the southern kingdom of Judah, we find that the great
Isaiah and Micah say nothing. Indeed, when scholars subtract away some likely interpolations,
there is nothing of an Exodus or a Moses at all. Here is how Bible scholar Nils Peter Lemke
describes things. All this goes to show that neither of the two Judean prophets, that is,
Micah and Isaiah, from the close of the 8th century, refer to the traditions of the Exodus.
If they were somehow familiar with these traditions, it is fair to say that they were of no
importance either to them or to their audience. It should also be noted that the four of these
two figures were not identical, as it is well known that Isaiah was active in Jerusalem,
where he apparently had access to the highest figures in Israelite society,
while Micah was active in the Judean province. Thus, it would be reasonable to claim that the
Pentateuchal tradition was foreign to the Judean horizon in the 8th century. We will
eventually see the Exodus tradition come down from the north to the south.
After the Kingdom of Israel was destroyed by the Assyrians, and a descendant of those
northern tribes would carry the Exodus to the Judean prophetic tradition. This we can see with
Jeremiah, the only Judean prophet before the Babylonian exile, to show any knowledge that
the Jews were enslaved by Egypt. Jeremiah uses Hosea as an influence, if not a source,
and unfortunately other things that might expand beyond Hosea are plausibly interpolated by someone
at a later date. What parts we can be more confident that Jeremiah said or wrote do not
include signs and wonders that helped them escape Egypt, nor is there anything about a
divinely appointed leader. There's a bit of a description of Israel's time in the wilderness,
but it lacks golden calfs and 40 years of suffering. In fact, Jeremiah 2, 2-3 says,
Israel was a loving bride that dutifully followed God and remained holy. In other words,
the sojourn through the desert before coming to the Promised Land was a good time for the Jewish
people. It's almost as if Jeremiah didn't have a copy of the Pentateuch to read. And once again,
Moses is not to be found in Jeremiah. The only verse, Jeremiah 15-1, would include his name,
but this is likely part of a larger interpolation by someone writing later. That means when the
Babylonians came and destroyed the Temple of Solomon in 587 BCE, none of the prophets of God
cared to mention Moses and only a minority even knew of an Exodus story at all. The cultural
memory was not widely shared until the story of Exodus made its way into a time when an Exodus
was prayed for. During the Babylonian exile, the prophet Ezekiel carried on this tradition,
and we can see some significant evolution. For starters, the time in the wilderness
wasn't so pleasant anymore. The commandments of God were not followed, and this is why the
descendants of Jacob were living in exile. I will bring you into the wilderness of the nations
and their face to face. I will execute judgment upon you as I judge your ancestors in the wilderness
of the land of Egypt. So I will judge you, declares the sovereign Lord. I will take note of you
as you pass under my rod, and I will bring you into the bond of the covenant. I will purge you
of those who revolt and rebel against me. Although I will bring them out of the land
where they are living, yet they will not enter the land of Israel. Then you will know that I
am the Lord. Then you will know that I am the Lord when I bring you into the land of Israel,
the land I had sworn with uplifted hand to give to your ancestors. Ezekiel 20.
Now, we are starting to see the wilderness tradition become familiar. As in the biblical story,
there was a long period of idolatry and suffering, and because the Israelites did not follow the
covenant as instructed, they were punished and eventually banished into a new wilderness,
the nations. Then and only after sufficient punishment would Israel be restored. Therefore,
Ezekiel is giving a story of hope to a people who lost their land to an outside power. But once
again, Moses is not to be found. Is he hiding behind a rock the whole time? Let's move on to
one more prophet for now, Isaiah. Wait, didn't we already cover him? Well, we did cover the original
Isaiah, but the book bearing his name was added to by two other writers at a much later time,
along with additional edits to the first part of Isaiah's prophecies. The second part of Isaiah,
called Deutero Isaiah, comprises chapters 40 through 55 of a modern English Bible,
and it was written at the tail end of the Babylonian exile. It is here we can see the
Exodus tradition become spectacular. Let's take a look at Isaiah 45, 16 to 21.
This is what the Lord says, he who made a way through the sea, a pest through the mighty waters,
who drew out the chariots and horses, the army and reinforcements together, and they lay there,
never to rise again, extinguished, snuffed out like a wick. Forget the former things.
Do not dwell on the past. See, I am doing a new thing. Now it springs up. Do you not perceive it?
Now I am making a way in the wilderness and streams in the wasteland. The wild animals honor me,
the jackals and the owls, because I provide water in the wilderness and streams in the wasteland to
give drink to my people, my chosen, the people I formed for myself, that they may proclaim my praise.
All right, this is starting to look like the familiar story of the armies of Egypt drowned
in the Red Sea. It may not be exactly quoting from Exodus 14 and 15, but the gist seems to be there,
plus some extra animal friendly touches. But there's another animal lurking in the waters,
and God is going to pull it up. The sea beast shows up later in Isaiah 51, 9 through 10.
Awake, awake, put on strength, O arm of the Lord. Awake, as in the days of old, the generations
of long ago. Was it not you who cut rehab into pieces, who pierced the dragon? Was it not you
who dried up the sea, the waters of the great deep, who made the depths of the sea away for the
redeemed to cross over? There is salvation for those that crossed over the dried up sea,
but what was that again? A dragon called Rehab? Now, we truly have found the myth of the Exodus,
if there ever was one. And the connection between this text and Exodus 15 are actually stronger
than what was in Isaiah 45. God dried up the deep waters, Exodus 15-8, making a road for the redeemed,
Exodus 15-13, to pass through Exodus 15-16. The language of Isaiah 51 really does match the song
of the sea in the Exodus story, but where is the dragon? When did the TV channel change from
watching the Ten Commandments to Godzilla, or perhaps Pacific Rim? We have already entered
into another myth altogether, the myth of creation by combat, as was believed and told for millennia
throughout the ancient Mediterranean world. Often it was a storm god who defeated a sea monster,
and by splitting the creature apart, the halves of the world, sky and ground, were created. And
it is often a god with storm powers that fights the water dragon. In Ugarit, the dragon, Lothan,
was defeated by Baal. In Babylon, the sea monster Tiamat was killed by Marduk, using a net and a
strong wind. So God fighting the sea or a sea creature isn't that unexpected, given the stories
told in those days. We can actually see God fighting the good fight against sea monsters in Habakkuk
3, 8 through 11, 13b to 15, and in Psalms 77, 17 through 20. In other places, the nations are
symbolized by these sea dragons, which God also defeats. This is explicitly the case in Ezekiel
29, 1 through 4, when prophesying against Egypt. In other words, the imagery of God winning the
battle that created the world is now imported into God, saving his chosen people. Helped along
by establishing the nations as sea dragons to be defeated. And thus, the imagery of how God defeats
sea monsters comes into the Exodus tradition. God defeated these monsters with weapons and
wind, just like Marduk. So the Exodus tradition grows and grows, and now it has achieved
universe making proportions in terms of its imagery. And still, even this late into the
writings of the prophet, there is no Moses. As we venture further still into the post-exilic
prophets, Moses is not mentioned by Zechariah, Joel, Obadiah, Haggai, or the oldest parts of
the books of Daniel in Aramaic. Only in the youngest layer of Isaiah, called 3rd or Tridio
Isaiah, Malachi and the Hebrew parts of Daniel do mention Moses, finally gets the call out he
deserved for centuries. Collectively, the prophets have talked about David, Joseph, Abraham, Isaac,
and Jacob dozens of times, but not a peep about the Savior of the Jewish people. This is confounding
if Moses has been a central figure in Judaism from the beginning. But as we saw above, not all the
prophets even knew or cared about the Exodus, especially the oldest prophets from Judah,
and they show no memory of the saving acts of Moses, where Jews not having Passover cedars,
with the children complaining about having matzah instead of risen bread,
and having to have it all explained by their grandfathers why they ate bitter herbs.
The whole point was to recall the story of Moses and the Exodus, and yet this important ritual
seems to have not existed to keep such a memory alive. If there was no such memory of Moses in
the distant past, then where did he come from? Let us return to Egypt, because the answers might
still remain there. Where did Moses come from? Let's take a moment to sum up the many observations
we have made so far in this documentary. The story of Moses, as found in the first books of the Holy
Bible, show many, many signs of myth-making. While no good evidence is to be found backing
up the fantastic narratives found in Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy,
we found the biography of Moses was actively emulating the stories of many other legendary
figures, especially those from Rome and Greece, as well as the story of the Akkadian king Sargon,
the plagues, the burning bush, the parting of the Red Sea, all of these parts of the Exodus tradition
not only failed to fit historical reality, but they can be put side by side with other
mythical traditions. We also found that the tradition of the Exodus, as described by the
Jewish prophets, grew and grew over the centuries, but it did not include a man named Moses until
the post-exilic period. We also let the mystery to be explained. The name of Moses, as we noted
before, the narrative of how Moses got his name, made little sense, either in terms of narrative,
nor in terms of grammar. Other proposals for the origins of his name have been suggested for a long
time. Even going back to the time of Philo of Alexandria, modern scholars suggest the best
candidates for his name are not in Hebrew, but in Egyptian. This is perhaps the kernel of historicity
to the Moses figure. If the Exodus was based on some cultural memory from great antiquity,
and someone with an Egyptian name was a part of the freeing of some people from the land of the
Nile, then that would explain why Moses has an Egyptian name. It is the one bit of memory left
over from the past, but here we find significant controversy, and a new way forward will be considered
here, so strap in for some cutting-edge knowledge. So if Moses had an Egyptian name, what might it
have been? The most common proposals looked to the names of pharaohs from about the same time
the exodus was alleged to have happened. Looking at times like Ahmos, Tutmos, and Remmos, which
is related to the famous Ramesses, one sees the root term mose. This root term comes from an Egyptian
verb that can mean to be born or created, so that Ahmos means something like the moon is born.
Some Egyptians were known just simply by this root word. You could find civil servants named mose
during the time of the exodus. However, Egyptologists have pointed out there are two
serious problems with this proposal. First, Moses is not how to pronounce the name of the Hebrew
Liberator. Instead, his name is pronounced as Moshe. Notice the sh sound in his name. That is not
found in the names of Ahmos or Ramesses, which have an s sound. Perhaps there was some sort of
mishearing of the name, but in Exodus 111 the name Ramesses is spelled with the s sound. The letter
samic instead of with the sh sound, with the letter shin, and that is not all. In the time of Ahmos
and Ramesses, the vowels of their names were pronounced differently. The root verb in their
names would have been pronounced as mesi, not mose, let alone moshe. But there would be a change in
the vowels of this word centuries later during and after the Persian era. So if Moses' name came
from the proposed Egyptian verb, his name can be no earlier than about 500 BCE, almost a full
millennium after the time of the exodus. In summary, the Egyptologist Thomas Schneider
recently stated, Given the situation on the linguistic evidence, the conclusion is all but
inescapable that the name Moses is not likely of Egyptian origin, which means yet another
subtraction in the history of subtractions in Moses' scholarship. So if the Hebrew name of
Moses makes no sense and the proposed Egyptian root of his name doesn't work, what are we to do?
Perhaps we need to look at another source for Moses' origins, including the Egyptian stories
of Moses the colonist as recorded by Hecateus of Abdera. As we noted earlier, the folklore he
relates appears to be independent of anything in the biblical tradition, and it was a product of
Hellenized Egyptians trying to make sense of the cultures of the world in a way that made
Egyptian culture superior to the rest. In their story, Moses was not a Hebrew but an Egyptian,
and he was a courageous figure who helped expand Egyptian power in Palestine. If this bit of folklore
was independent of anything in the Bible as it seems to be, then that also means the name Moses
had to mean something to those storytellers in Egypt, and it had to be in a way without knowing
about the biblical Moses. In other words, the name Moses must have such functional meaning to an
Egyptian audience, not unlike how Abraham is supposed to be meaningful to a Jewish audience.
Abraham allegedly means father of the many nations, Genesis 17.5. So what function could the name
Moses have to an Egyptian? Already, we found that the original proposal for Moses' name from an
Egyptian verb did not work. So what does? Let's step back and look at what Moses does in the narrative
from Hecateus of Abderra. The version of Moses, he describes, is a leader of not just a colony,
but of an army. He goes into a new land and he sets up laws, both civil and religious. Is there a
term for someone that journeys into a place and both legal and martial characteristics? Indeed,
there's a common verb for that. In the Coptic script, which descends from older Egyptian,
there is the verb that means to go, to journey, and it can mean journey. The word is
Moshe. And that's how you pronounce it, Moshe. Yes, that is almost identical to the Hebrew
pronunciation of Moses. The Egyptian verb Moshe is also used in describing laws, both civil and
cosmic. The original root of Moshe in more ancient Egyptian is also the same as the root for an army.
So Moshe works to describe someone who journeys to a new place, makes laws, and leads an army.
We also have another clue that the name Moses was originally Egyptian because of the way it was
spelled by Manetho. Yes, we'll unravel the mysteries of Moses through spelling conventions.
And you thought spelling these were useless? Remember, Manetho was an Egyptian priest. And
when he wrote in Greek, he used an Egyptian style to transliterate words into Greek. As
classicists have noted, Manetho and other Egyptians will spell names with a combination of letters,
unlike that found in Greek words, and names in particular. Spelling words with an omega and
epsilon? Manetho spells the names of several pharaohs with this vowel combination. And he also
does this for the name Moses. In other words, Manetho thinks the name is Egyptian and is spelling
like an Egyptian would. It's not something a Jewish writer would have done. And we will come
back to look at the Moses in the Bible again soon. The spelling Moses is also worth highlighting
because the ending of Moses is spelled with a long E sound using the Greek letter Eta.
However, Manetho normally ended the names of pharaohs and others with an I sound using the
letter Iota. Why the long E? Well, that may be because the root term behind Moshe has another
letter in it that cannot be spelled in Greek, the letter An. In ancient Egyptian term for journey,
it ends with the letter An. This matters because when Manetho writes the names of pharaohs whose
names ended with an An such as Kafe, then Manetho uses the long E, Kaferes. The evidence all seems
to indicate that the name of Moses in Manetho is an Egyptian name. And it comes from an Egyptian
verb that describes what Moses does in the story from Hecateus. Are we suggesting that Moses was
an Egyptian invention of the Hellenistic era? Perhaps so. But that would mean the authors
of the Torah added in Moses in the Hellenistic era much, much later than what most biblical
scholars would think. Is there evidence that the story of the Exodus knows this Egyptian Moses?
In fact, there are some compelling reasons to think there is. Let's notice the spelling of
Moses in Greek again. The way Manetho did this was in an Egyptian style rather than Greek or
Hebraic, and yet the Greek translation of the Bible spells Moses the way Manetho the Egyptian
did. They don't spell other names this way, so this looks odd and indicates a genetic connection
between Manetho and the Greek Bible. There are also signs that the Hebrew of Exodus was influenced
by Greek sources. As was noticed decades ago by the Egyptologist John Gwyn Griffiths, the spelling
of the town named after Ramesses was influenced by Greek foul practices. And when Griffiths looked
for a comparative example, he cited good ol' Manetho. That's not all. In biblical studies,
Thomas Romer sees an editor of the Exodus story responding to Manetho's tale of the leper army
under Osara Sef, also called Moses. He notes that in Exodus 4, God teaches Moses a magic trick
wherein Moses can turn his hand leprous and back to normal. Allegedly, this was to help convince
Pharaoh to let the Hebrews go, along with the staff that turned into a serpent and the ability to turn
the Nile blood red. Well, Moses did the staff and water tricks, but not the hand trick. So there's
just a weird addition of this leperous hand trick for no reason. Or on the other hand, as Romer
suggests, this is in response to the story of the lepers and their similarly diseased leader,
Osara Sef, Moses. But here in this biblical inclusion, Moses only temporarily has leprosy,
and it vanishes on command. If the Exodus tells responding to the legend from Manetho, then we
can make sense of this otherwise blind motif. Speaking of blind motifs, let's return to how
Moses got his name in Hebrew. As we noted, the narrative does not make sense of how he would
have gotten the Hebrew name from an Egyptian princess. And even if it were, his name would have been
Mashu instead of Moshe. However, if the first Jewish people to hear the name Moses heard it from an
Egyptian, and the Egyptian name was simply the verb or noun Moshe, then we can explain the name
rather well. In fact, it explains why Moses was given a swim in the Nile from a young age. The
Hebrew verb that the author of Exodus 2 suggests is the root of Moses' name is Masha, a rare verb
that only shows up in two places in the rest of the Hebrew Bible, 2 Samuel 2217, Psalms 1816.
And these are actually copies of each other. In this Psalm or story of David, the heroic
future king of Israel speaks of how he was saved by God. Here is the verse from 2 Samuel 22 in
context. The Lord, thundered from heaven, the voice of the Most High, resounded. He shot
his arrows and scattered the enemy. With great bolts of lightning, he routed them. The valleys
of the sea were exposed, and the foundations of the earth laid bare at the rebuke of the Lord.
At the blast of breath from his nostrils, he reached down from on high and took hold of me.
He drew me out of deep waters. He rescued me from my powerful enemy, from my foes,
who were too strong for me. Notice here that the waters David is pulled from are not the waters
of the Nile or any river in particular. Instead, the deep waters are the seas of primordial chaos,
and God defeated that chaos using his storm powers. This looks a lot like the same thing God does
in the Exodus tradition in Isaiah 51, 9 through 10, as well as Exodus 15. In other words, this
isn't a baby in a basket. This is something more mythical. Now we can imagine what the first Hebrew
listener of the name Moses would have thought. They hear this name or something pronounced similar
to it by an Egyptian, and that Jewish member of the audience knows the Psalm of David. Would they
not then interpret the similar sounding Egyptian name in light of the Hebrew word and its literary
context? This seems more plausible, and it would then provide the reason Moses was said to have
been a water-drawn baby. If the hypotheses we propose here is true, then we can understand
how Moses got his name and how it instigated the story of his legendary birth narrative.
And if our hypothesis is true, then the name Moses is a Hellenistic invention from Egyptian
folklore. We can thus trace not only many plausible thematic and legendary influences
on the story of Moses, but we can create a genealogy of the myth of Moses. And so Moses
disappears from even a kernel of historical reality, but in its stead we have found what
might be the real Moses, a product of the desires and hopes of many peoples. When he was
thought up by the Egyptians, this was an attempt to say that Egyptian culture was more wonderful
and influential than the powers that can now control it. When the Jewish neighbors of Egypt
learned of Moses, he was transformed into the great savior of the Jewish people,
combining him into a long-standing tradition of freedom from Egyptian slavery. The influence of
Moses would be incredible as he then became a deified figure in some sorts of Judaism,
and Jesus would then become the new Moses in the Christian movement. While he might
have always been a myth, this only shows the power of story, and we hope you have enjoyed the story
we have put together for you today. The Afterlife of Moses
Even if there was never a historical Moses figure,
he has nonetheless had an amazing effect on culture. Perhaps then the story of Moses should
end with him getting a wonderful afterlife. According to Deuteronomy 34, Moses was buried
in a secret place. Apparently after God had personally shoveled his grave site. But for
many Jews and Christians later, this was not good enough. No. Moses needed to achieve
heavenly reward. On his advancing then towards the place where he was destined to disappear,
they all followed him, bathed in tears. There upon Moses, by signal of his hand,
bathed those in the distance to remain still. While word of mouth, he exhorted those nearer
to him not to make his passing a tearful one by following him. And they, deciding to gratify
him in this also to win, to leave him to depart according to his own desire, held back, weeping
with one another. Only the elders escorted him, with Ilias of the High Priest and Joshua the
General. But when he arrived on the mountain called Aberus, a lofty eminent situate over
against Jericho and affording to those on its summit a wide view beneath of the best of the
land of the Canaanites, he dismissed the elders. And while he bade farewell to Ilias and to Joshua,
and was yet commuting with them, a cloud of a sudden descended upon him and he disappeared
in a ravine. But he has written of himself in the sacred book that he died, or fear lest
they should venture to say that by reason of his surpassing virtue, he had gone back to the
deity. Having Moses taken up in a cloud might make one think of the ascension of Jesus. But
the examples Josephus might actually have in mind are from Greco-Roman culture, for it was said that
the founding figures of Rome, both Aeneas and Romulus, had similar heavenly ascents of Aeneas.
But the body of Aeneas could nowhere be found, and some conjectured that he had been translated to
the god. And of Romulus. The more mythical writers say that as he was holding an assembly in the
camp, darkness descended upon him from a clear sky, and he disappeared. And they believe that he
was caught up by his father Ares. From birth to life to death, and even into the afterlife,
the story of Moses is a tapestry of myths and legends. There's so much diversity in the elements
of the story that we must be impressed beyond the need to claim any of it happened. Conclusion
My friends, our journey following the footsteps of Moses has led us through ancient legends and
lively imaginations. Like tracing a meandering river, we navigated many twists and turns in
the development of this captivating character. We dove into the deep waters of myth, where Moses
floated like Sargon before him. We wandered through the wilderness, finding traces of Moses in heroic
patterns from lands afar. Through Canaanite whispers, we heard echoes of the Exodus and
tales of gods defeating dragons. We climbed the Greek mountaintops and saw the shining walls.
From the prophet's evolving songs, we learned that Moses was but a late arrival to the Exodus
tradition. And peering behind the veil of his name, we glimpsed the light of an Egyptian
inspiration. Though Moses may never have existed, his message resonates throughout the ages.
Origins of Moses and indeed the entirety of his legend is as fictitious as the promised land
itself. But in our inability to grasp the historical Moses, we have unveiled the context that gave rise
to his myth. So as Moses gazed upon a land he could never enter, we too must look to the horizon
beyond historicity. Our journey now is guided by the hands of critical thinking, leading us away
from dogma and towards brilliant insight. By uncovering the legendary layers, we uncover
new possibilities for what the timeless tale of Exodus represents. What matters is not the
veracity of the myth, but the victory over our narrow bonds to literalism. The promised land
awaits, but it cannot be defined by dogmas and boundaries. Now it is for us to finish what the
myth started, to bring radical freedom and unprecedented questions, to challenge comforting
assumptions. Now it is for us to sing the song of open minds. Let my people think. Please be sure
to subscribe to our channel. Help support us by joining our Patreon YouTube memberships. Also
be sure to check out the links in the description because this documentary was co-produced with
Dr. Aaron Adair and Jonathan M. S. Pierce. We hope you enjoyed. Help support us to keep doing what
we're doing. Subscribe to our channels. Follow us and never forget we are myth vision.
