We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
Derek Lambert here and this is part two of an interesting show.
On the book, Goy, let me go ahead and introduce our guests.
Ishai Rosensvi is a full professor at Tel Aviv University where he teaches rabbinic literature
in the Department of Jewish Philosophy and Talmud.
In 2013 he was elected to the Israel Young Academy of Sciences.
He has written on Midrash and Mishnah as well as on issues of self-formation and collective
identity in 2nd Temple Judaism and rabbinic literature.
Among his publications are Demonic Desires, Yetzir Harah, and The Problem of Evil and Late
Antiquity, Body and Soul in Ancient Judaism, The Mishnah Sota Ritual, Temple Gender in
Midrash, Between Mishnah and Midrash, The Birth of Rabbinic Literature, and the topic
of today's discussion, a book from 2018 entitled Goy, Israel's Others and the Birth
of the Gentile, co-authored with our guest Adi O'Fyr.
And he is a professor of an emeritus at Tel Aviv University where he teaches at the program
for Middle East Studies.
He also directs the project Political Concepts at Brown at, correct me if I'm wrong, Kogut?
Kogut Institute.
Kogut Institute for the Humanities.
His books include Divine Violence, Two Essays on God and Disaster, and The Order of Evils.
They've also co-authored 42-page article for the Jewish Quarterly Review.
Go down in the description.
It was written in 2015 and it predated the book by a few years, Paul and the Invention
of the Gentiles.
Make sure you guys check that out.
So I want to go ahead and dig into the show here, ladies and gentlemen.
In this show, we talked about, briefly, passages in Genesis where the offspring of Abraham
and Ephraim are prophesied to become multitude of nations.
And Paul applies these prophecies to his Gentile audience using similar language, the fullness
of the nations in Romans chapter 11.
We were talking and tried to avoid Paul because Paul himself and the rabbis like deserve their
own episode and we're thankful to have you guest join us again.
So welcome to 2021 on MythVision.
That's my introduction to say welcome.
Thank you.
Yes.
You've seen the template, OK.
I've sent you guys the template.
My friend Stephen came up with some wonderful graphics I'd like to pull up on the screen
while we go.
But Paul is doing something very interesting and I figure we can dive into what he's doing
as we go.
Not in the template to cover the show, but I do want to mention some interesting things
you guys bring up about Paul throughout this episode and maybe you guys will automatically
do it and I don't have to bring it up because I really want to say up front before we start.
Get the book.
You will not regret it.
I'm telling you if you want to be educated in seeing with a magnifying glass how complex
these texts plural are and the ideas of who the Goy are, the Gentiles, the nations, what's
going on here.
You got to read the book or else you're just going to be in the dark.
So thank you so much, guys.
I really do appreciate you joining me.
Thank you.
Thank you.
So Genesis 17, four through seven, you guys, I'm going to pull this up and I want your
honest opinion what's going on here as we go because I'm just a student.
I've got a lot to learn and I figure why not have you guys tell me what you what you've
learned on these things because I've learned so much from your book.
I know I can really learn now.
Here we go.
Let me know if you see it.
Can you guys see that?
Yes.
What do you what's going on here in terms of maybe bringing Paul into the picture?
And I guess I don't even really have to ask a question because this is your playground
and I'm joining your your playground.
Yeah.
Listen, listen, Derek, we have to discuss, you know, Genesis on its own term and then
and then Paul on its own term and not assume that Paul somehow, you know, trick us or or
you know, fake Genesis.
He's a reader and that's what ancient readers and also modern readers do, right?
They interpret and reinterpret and they move stuff from one context to another.
And that's perfectly OK.
That's what readers do.
So if we talk about Genesis, that's a totally, you know, common blessing of, you know, offspring,
multiplicity.
And that's that's the biblical type of blessings because there is no war to come in the Bible,
right?
What the righteous get is offspring, continuity, right?
And the more the merrier.
And so that's a perfectly regular, you know, Genesis like blessing for the forefathers.
Because remember, we are speaking about the forefathers and the assumption is that the
whole world came from them, right?
So you have to explain how these, you know, several families became this multitude of
nations, right?
So you you're both reading forward how they became and backwards how where did we come
from and where did all these nations come from?
Right?
Right.
So that's about Genesis.
Now we can move to Galashians, but maybe Adi wants to add something about Genesis.
No, I just want to stress, because this is important for the comparison between the two
texts to stress the fact that Genesis is about offsprings, literal offsprings, the son and
the son of the son, et cetera, et cetera, and it is taking place in a moment in which
Abraham is still doesn't have a son from his wife.
And this is what he's worried about.
He wants a son from his wife, not from his mistress.
So it is really, we must understand Genesis, we must understand the critical importance
of the biological aspect of this genealogy.
And then we can see what Paul is doing.
Yeah.
No, absolutely.
It's the politics of offsprings, of continuity, you know, and then Paul take it to a different
context because that's what he does.
Paul is a apostle to the ethnic.
That's his mission.
That's his call.
That's his job description, right?
Now he is using all kinds of biblical sources in order to plant these ethnic into the biblical
story, right?
Because for him, look, his story is basically the traditional Judean, you know, story of
our forefathers Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, right?
He's not speaking about a universal human being, not even in the phylonic kind of,
you know, allegorical manner.
He's thinking through the Bible and through Genesis and through the story of the holy
nation.
And yet he has to plant them somehow in that that's a very, you know, complicated mission.
So he's using all kinds of scriptural, you know, techniques, okay, midrashic interpretive
technique in order to, and this is one of them, reading the ethnic, the goyim, okay,
as Gentiles is a kind of what Adi and I call privatization or individuation, right, meaning,
you know, translating these political units, nations collected into these individuals that
he is approaching and telling them, look, what the Bible says, what this verse says,
these are you, you are these nations.
So you are the offspring of Abraham.
So that's a very sophisticated interpretive technique of, you know, letting them in.
It is even more radical than it.
It's very, the passage captures a lot of levels of his intervention.
So what he does here is actually creating a new historical narrative that enables two
things at once.
On the one hand, it enables the inclusion of the non-Jews into the election, into the
covenant with the Israel God, without joining Israel, they are coming without joining Israel.
At the same time, he's not telling the Israelites, you are no longer important.
No, the history of the covenants in the plural of God with the Israelites is crucial.
This is the second history, this is the second version of history, and it is kept.
So unlike other interpreters of the time that took a distance from the biblical text by
allegorizing it, and creates simply a distinction between two layers.
So here's the literal meaning and here's the allegorical meaning, here is the flesh and
here is the spirit, and they are separate.
What Paul does, he creates a system in which there is an allegorical meaning, but it is
part of a whole system, so the two parts remain encapsulated in one system.
You must maintain the flesh, not only as a negated element, but as part of your history.
If you join the ecclesia, it becomes part of your history, the history of the flesh.
I thought that was fascinating, and I'm not trying to skip ahead, but this is amazing.
They still remain ethne even after joining.
They don't literally become Israelites, and that goes into a concept of conversion that
people could convert, and why not?
Why didn't he make them convert?
So this is a big question, I love what you're saying here, because you go into the second
century just a little and mention how the church fathers take kind of what Paul's saying,
but they really run, they're not taking what Paul's saying.
You explain it well, like he keeps the ethnic, retains some of that, but also is opening
up a door for things that later ends up becoming the priority, and then of course Christianity
and then heathens becomes the new dichotomy for the Christians.
So can I add one thing about the importance of the flesh and the carnal lineage?
Paul uses the word allegory once, when he speaks about Sarah and Hagar in the Allegory
of Sarah and Hagar in Galatians 4.
So you might expect that there it will be all spiritual, that you are like Isaac, you
are like Abraham's, but that's not how this allegory ends, it ends with the idea of genealogy,
actual genealogy, you are the children of Isaac, so it's clear that Paul cannot be satisfied
with the idea of allegory, of being similar to, of being like, he needs an actual genealogy.
No, of course, from the perspective of the history of Christianity, this is fascinating
because Paul is considered to be the father of allegory, origin says, I've learned allegory
from Paul, but Paul uses allegory only once, and even then he insists that this is about
real genealogy rather than just likeness.
Okay, so that brings in Oscar a little.
I just want to add a word about what bothered you about the people who claim that the ethnos,
the ethnos are actually Israelites.
In order to maintain such a claim, it's not enough to take just one verse, you have to
explain with this interpretation a whole set of relations in the text,
and I think that if you try to do it, it runs counter to what Paul says in many, many other things.
When we read it in our way, it's never about one particular verse, you know, there are many
verses that fall now into place, into a system or structure that makes sense of them,
and that runs throughout the corpus, the polling corpus.
So, for example, flesh and spirit are related in a very specific way to the distinction between
Jew and Gentile, and of course some of the other, and some other distinctions or concepts simply
lose their importance, like Greek and barbarian.
They are used, but they are no longer important.
They are used as a model.
Everyone knows what Greek and barbarian means and what the opposition means,
but these are no longer important.
If you say in the Ecclesiast, you can be either a Greek or barbarian, then
who should care about whether you are one or the other?
Interesting. So, okay, let me, we're going to keep continuing because we're going to touch
things as we go. This is so good. Real quick, on the Ephraim context, I just wanted to ask you
guys, because this is, we're going to leave that here in just a second.
Ephraim in the original context in Genesis, he is supposed to be a fullness of nations.
There's going to be like a multitude of nations, if that's a better literal way of phrasing it
in Hebrew. A multitude of nations, but because the expectation was that all of Jacob's descendants,
literally from Genesis, including Jacob and Ephraim, would be ethnic Israelites, not foreign,
non-Israelite nations. Or was the inspired by, or was this inspired by, a Syrian crisis that
dispersed the Northern tribes into the foreign nations? So, I guess this is a bad question to
ask, but I guess we're projecting the future from the narrative of the exile of the Northern Kingdom
back into Ephraim's narrative and saying you'll be a multitude of nations because they got scattered
into the nations. That's also kind of doing what Paul's doing, right?
Well, in a way, I mean, that's a very good point that, you know, when the narrator tells,
you know, this blessing about Ephraim, you know, and Joseph, the narrator already knows the history,
right? And it's right, it's post the destruction of Samaria and the exile. And so you're right.
The narrator is probably, you know, projecting back the story of Ephraim. And so, you know,
the fullness of ethnic Meloaguim could be read as, you know, in a weak sense of he'll be everywhere,
okay? And it could be read in a stronger way. But you're right. I mean, this reinterpretation is an
ongoing process. What Paul does is use all these different idioms and terms, right? In order to,
you know, to do the one thing that he's obsessed with, and this letting them in. And I want to add
another term here. You know, at the same period, there is a group in Qumran, right near the Dead Sea,
that is doing something pretty similar, meaning using scripture, okay? In order to legitimize their
revolutionary, you know, way of life and their revolutionary concept of history. And they call
this technique, Peshir. Peshir meaning to, to, to read these verses, okay, concretely about
themselves and their, their, you know, in their specific period, which they believe is close to
the end of days, etc. Okay, so they knew, you know, how to take all kinds of verses and say,
this is about us, these prophecies, and these blessings, and this, you know, this is specifically
about us. So what we argue, basically, is that Paul is doing a similar kind of Peshir and telling
these, you know, ethnic, these blessings are about you. All you have to do is to read ethnic
as Gentiles, okay, meaning in an individualized way. And here you have it. You have the whole story.
You are, the door is open and you're let in. Okay. But what we have to be cautious,
you know, from is to assume that Paul has like, you know, one kind of one model, one narrative,
because he's using, he's using all kinds of verses and all kinds of models in order to let them in.
So, you know, so he's using the idea of, you know, Sperma Abraham, right, the children of Abraham.
And sometimes it seems that they're adopted children, right, because they, they get this,
the status of children, right, he called them, right. But sometimes it seems like they are
actual offspring. And sometimes they are like Isaac, sometimes they are from Isaac. And sometimes
they are from the, the, the, the, the, the multitude of, of ethnic, right. But you can't be at the same
time from Isaac and from the multitude of ethnic. So what does he do? He uses all these different
tracks in order to let them in. So a flying may well be, you know, one more track to let them in.
So we have to see as, you know, a series of interpretive techniques that this.
Oh, I'm sorry, Adi, I was right here. He used the metaphor of planting in order to plant them
into the sacred history of Israel. So these are all interpretive techniques, but they're also
rhetorical techniques. They, they are supposed to lure the audience to get them into the story,
to get, to get them to listen in the first place, to get them to read the letter in the first place.
Now there is one, there is one thing which is really incredible in this is that he's
writing a letter to the, to a community of people who lives in Rome. So
if you live in Rome, you're a Roman, right? He never calls them Romans. He never calls them
by the name that they call themselves, probably. Maybe, maybe they call themselves
your members of the Ecclesiast or followers of Christ or something like this. So he uses this
also, but, but it's, when he's tell them, I speak to you Gentiles, I speak to you,
he is not only addressing them, he tells them who they are. He brand them a new, actually,
this is a moment, already a moment in their conversion. They are no longer identified.
By the way, their neighbors identify them. They're identified by the name
or the label that would allow them to become part of the New Ecclesiast, because they cannot
be part of New Ecclesiast as followers of an ethnic god. Right. In a straightforward manner,
they are not Israelites. They are not Jews. This gets into something I do want to get into,
is how gods were ethnic, also not only were they ethnic and the people were ethnic to the gods,
but also the land. But I guess one question in this whole thing is like, since Paul keeps hijacking
and giving these rhetorical and linguistic ways of entering the ethnic, and I'm just going to
play devil's advocate, isn't it easier just to assume, hey, he says they're like Jacob,
he says they are Jacob, he says they're like children of Abraham, he says they are children
of Abraham. Isn't it easier just to say, well, they really were literally children of Abraham,
and Paul's just finding a way to make these ethnic become. But the problem with that,
while I say that question, why didn't he just circumcise them? If they were children of Abraham,
why didn't he just, you know what I'm saying? Like, why didn't he just say, come on in and,
you know, you're just like Jews because you're ethnic descendants of Abraham,
you might as well get under the Torah, but he doesn't do that. So I guess I'm answering somewhat
while asking a question, but if you don't mind. Before I add the answers, I want to radicalize
the question because, you know, his opponents did exactly that, right? The rival missionaries
came to these Galashians and told them, you know, we are also Jesus followers, and all the things
that Paul told you are right. But, you know, let's make it easier, you know, let's make it easier.
All you have to do is to circumcise, and then all the blessings will, you know, will follow.
So the question is not only why Paul does not demand circumcision, but why he does not allow
for circumcision? Why does he care? Do you want to answer this? So he said, do you want to answer
the question? No, no, go ahead, answer, answer. No, it's for you. I'd love to hear you guys, yeah.
So he cannot allow circumcision because allowing circumcision would be making circumcision
an essential part of one's identity. That's, again, you remain in the flesh. It's not open
for the spirit. It's the whole mechanism of inclusivity would collapse. It will be, you know,
a small community of people who, it's not a, you know, a small matter to circumcise when you are
25 or something, when you hear the message at first, it's a big price to pay. So there is
this practical aspect, and then there is the metaphysical or the theological aspect,
because this will connect you and leave you stuck in the Old Testament, in the Old Covenant.
What is the meaning of the New Covenant, of the new relationship between God and humanity
if we are still stuck in the election of these one people, if we are still stuck in the law?
So the construction, as I said before, the terms and oppositions are related to each other.
So circumcision means that you are still followed the law, that the law is the crucial element in
practicing the new relation to God. But if it's, so what's new about it? That's all.
The New Covenant and the New Testament comes with faith versus law. So if you demand circumcision,
you diminish the importance of this opposition and visit that our system actually would collapse.
Absolutely. Let me add a few things that Adi kind of hinted to. First, you can look at it,
and when Adi said it's not a small thing to circumcise, you can look at it from a kind of
utilitarian point of view, right? Had Paul kept this demand of circumcision, of course the community
could not become what he became when he opened the door. But I don't think it was, we don't think
it was just about the sociological or the social point of view. He thinks with the Bible and for
the book of Genesis, circumcision is not just an act, it's the covenant, right? And so it's Genesis
17. And so to let the circumcision in is to let the old story in. And so Paul is very meticulous
about what he allows, you know, as part of the story and what he does. And that's also connected
to what Adi spoke earlier about, you know, Paul, this sensitive guy being everything to everyone.
How could he fail approach the Romans as Romans, right? That's what they are. They're very proud
about their heritage, you know, living in the center of the universe. So how could he fail,
you know, he didn't approach them as Romans even once, right? Because he wants to teach them
that being Roman is meaningless, theologically speaking, because he's not, you know, just,
you know, he's telling them the story, the story that matters. So being Roman does not
matter. He approached them as ethnic. He says as much in the beginning of them, of the epistle.
You are ethnic, so he teach them their way in. And it's the same with circumcision. If he,
if he let them keep, you know, this, this threshold, then he adopt the old story.
He doesn't stop. He doesn't stop Jews, though. You know what I'm saying? So he's, it doesn't appear,
at least he's stopping because Jews are all because Jews do not have to be let in. Right.
They're already part of the story. And he is now narrating the new story for the new Ecclesia.
Okay. And he has, you know, when we think about Paul innovativeness and radicalism,
we have to remember, what are we talking about? We're talking about a few hundreds,
you know, people scattered in several, you know, tiny communities. And yet Paul can envision
an Ecclesia, a community, a church of God, right? And he can speak about Jews and Greeks,
and Ecclesia, as if these are three, you know, parallel groups, although we're talking about
tiny, tiny communities that he knows by name, right? At the end of Romans, he sends regards,
right, to basically all the members of the community. So he really envisions, you know,
his story is a metaphysical story. It's not just, you know, an actual social, it's a metaphysical
story. And in this story, Romans have no place and circumcision has no place.
Interesting. Do you want me to go ahead and move forward?
Move forward. Okay. Okay. So Dr. Jason Staples, which he's got a book coming out soon. It's on
preorder. I'm looking forward to seeing what he says. Here are some excerpts from Jason Staples
article in the section, The Fulness of the Nations, Paul's Mystery Revealed. So we're focused on Paul.
The Gentiles now receive the spirit are the fulfillment of Jacob's prophecy.
They're Ephraim seed. They are Israel restored through the new covenant. God had planned all
along that Ephraim seed would become the fullness of the nations so that when Ephraim was restored,
it would result also in the redemption of the Gentiles in Abraham's seed. The fullness of the
Gentiles refer to the ingathering of the Gentiles into Israel. But their new identity as reconstituted
Ephraim, Paul is simultaneously proclaiming the salvation of the Gentiles and the return of the
northern kingdom as the same event. Jeremiah 31 calls for Ephraim to return from among the nations.
This despite Jeremiah's recognition that Ephraim is no more, it is this in this context that the new
covenant is promised with the house of Israel and the house of Judah. And so here's a visual and maybe
you guys can comment on this here. Listen, that's, you know, that's a nice
and I know it's very important for you and maybe explain why. But for us, it's, you know, it's a
possible reading. You know, Paul is using so many, you know, biblical illusions. So it's always a
question how much to, you know, to kind of, how much to assume that, you know, he drags from the
Bible with these illusions. So Staples here is, is, you know, assuming the maximum, you know,
possibility that we use these illusions to the fullness of the ethnic, Paul took the whole story
of Ephraim. Now that's, I can, you know, that's a possibility. What we will insist is that even if
this story, you know, if we accept this story, you know, in its wholeness, and that's, I see no
reason why to reject it. It's one of the, you know, interpretive and rhetorical techniques that Paul is
using. And it's side by side, rather than instead his story about Isaac and his story about, you
know, the father of many nations and his story about the adopted children. All these, you know,
stories live in his, you know, meta narrative of the apostle to the Gentiles side by side.
May I say something, Adi? Because I'd love to have your thoughts. I just wanted to say, like,
this is amazing what you're saying, because Jason is technically taking Paul's word on it,
you know what I mean? Like, like he, he, in his view is like accepting the full maximum of what
Paul is trying to do. Whereas what you're saying is you're trying to go behind the scenes and say,
yeah, he's probably using those narratives, but for a purpose toward his individual Gentiles.
And that's the power of what your book brings to the table. This is not a collective political
binary structure between nations politically speaking and Israel politically speaking.
We're talking about Joe and Sally and Bob, you know, Mr. Greek Pagan, Mr. Phoenician woman,
Mr. You know, like, like just the different specific individuals, which is the, the drive
of your book is really showing Paul's innovative thought on the individualistic
um, gentility of these people and then being included into the covenant of Israel.
But I gotta ask a question. I gotta, I gotta, I gotta ask. Galatians chapter three, Paul talks about
them becoming children of Abraham by faith. It's my understanding, correct me if I'm wrong,
and this is kind of a theological interpretive thing because he's very, Paul does this.
It sounds like Paul's making them by faith in the, in the seed singular Jesus by having faith in him,
they now become children of Abraham. That's been my understanding, but some people want to say,
no, they were already children of Abraham, but they just because you're a descendant of Abraham
doesn't mean you're really of Israel, Romans chapter nine, and they want to like make Romans
chapter nine and Galatians three combine where these are actual descendants and so forth. So
it sounds like these ethnic, these individual Gentiles that he's talking to, we're not really
Israelites and he's making them able to come in. Is that what he's doing in Galatians three?
I think so. I mean, if I had to choose between these readings, I would
mean, meaning that, yeah, he let the ethnic in regardless of their actual, you know,
of their actual genealogy. That's the whole idea that the actual genealogy is meaningless.
Wow. And this is where the distinction between faith and law comes in. So they, there are,
they will be saved by faith and not by following the law. So, so we ever actually hear
with the individuation of the many Gentiles and the erasure of the particular nations. And so you
have one Gentiles is a, is a general term to describe everyone who is not a Jew and Gentile
has no meaning except for the negation of being a Jew. So beyond this, we where we have content
is not in the term itself, Gentile Jew, but in the, in the fact that on the one hand,
you have a community of, of the law or community whose relation to God is mediated by the law.
And, and, and all the rest, which is in potentially humanity at large is a community whose relation
to God is mediated by faith. And, and this is, this is the, the real radical moment
because, because this allows the expansion, the exponential expansion of the new
system of the new religious, if you can call it religious.
And this is also why later the importance of, of Gentile is diminished because Gentile is a,
for Paul is a converse conversional moment. It, it, it's good for the moment of conversion
for a small community that was really a minor community that would like to expand and become
large. Once Christians become hegemonic in the cultures in which they live,
they don't need it anymore. Now there are two new oppositions, one between Christians and Jews.
So Christianity and Judaism become a new, new opposition. It wasn't like this before.
In Paul, it's not the opposition between Christian and Jews.
It's the opposition between Jews and something else that is in between
the Gentile. And so this is one opposition in the new phase and the other is between Christians
and Ethiians or, or pagans. So those who already, who are already in and those who are still inside,
we have, you have two others there, the, the, those who have not yet made the choice
and those who could have made the choice and refused the Jews. So, and in this constellation,
you don't need the Gentiles. Yeah. So, so actually in the book, we show that already in the second
century CE, right? In, in Justin Markier and others, you know, they don't, they, they almost
do not use the concept of ethnic. They use it when they use the Bible, when they quote Paul,
but they don't need it as a concept because they see themselves now as Christians and as
verus Israel, as the real Israel. Right. So it's really, so it's really, we really have to see it
in a, in a, in a context of a specific situation that Paul needed this, this techniques in, in,
in order to, to, to tell his story. And I want to add one thing that I think we cannot ignore.
And that's the issue of gender, because his communities were mixed, right, from men and
women. It's clear from his, the regards he sent at the end of, of, of Romans and, and from his,
in the first Corinthians, when he speak about, you know, the, the, the, the ethics of the community,
and, and who can speak and who cannot. But of course, he ignores women when he talks about
circumcision, because he thinks with the androcentric logic of the Bible that offspring is through,
right? It's through men. And the issue of sperm is what, you know, is what's constituted genealogy.
So again, he sees what he sees through his biblical, you know, glasses. And that creates
problems for him. That creates problems for Paul. And the logical, like conclusions Paul's trying
to make, because you pointed out before we hit record, you know, this causes contradictions,
him trying to create this new thing and trying to develop this new idea. It's a revolutionary idea.
And in fact, in modern terms, we would appreciate someone like Paul, who's trying to, I guess you
would say, try to not keep division amongst ethnic gods and things. He's trying to be cosmopolitan.
And his God is becoming more and more cosmopolitan. But that was already something that you mentioned
in the book, late prophets and other writings. Jews were already doing that. Hellenistic Jews were
already broadening the scope of their God. But this creates problems for Paul, you know, what you
said before we hit the record button. Are there some examples you could give us of, like,
off the top of your head that are just some issues you find that Paul is wrestling with that he
contradicts himself on? Oh, he contradicts himself many times. And I believe, and that's a good thing.
I mean, that's because he's a creative thinker. And he's going back and forth. Think about
Romans seven, when he, you know, says, you know, the normals, the law, right, cannot save us from
sin, but can only generate sin. And then he stops and say, does this mean that the law is bad?
Right? Oh, no, no, that cannot possibly be. And then he creates all this distinction between the
normals, which is spiritual, and us who are carnal. And so there is a, there is a kind of, you know,
mismatch between us and the law. And so, and scholars, you know, scratch their heads and and
ask, but wait, but in Galatians, he's much more critical of the law than in Romans. And in first
Corinthians, he's much more positive than because the context change, right? And, and, and, and he's
polemical, right? His polemical context change. And so he's, yes, he's negotiating. He's negotiating
because he has his ultimate goal. It's a, it's, it's not a goal that for him, it's, it's, it's his,
you know, definition of, of who he is. And in order to, right, to, to, to fulfill this goal,
he's willing to make all these, you know, different negotiations and, and with scripture,
with his audience, with his tradition, with himself. So, so yeah, for assets, I don't know,
it's, it's a badge of honor to contradict yourself. I would like to add to this something.
Yeah. There are other tensions, I would say that are not, are not only related to
different circumstances and creativity and the dynamic of the development of the
the epistolary corpus. So I would like to give two examples. One is between a statement like
you are Gentile and the statement like you were Gentiles. So are you, are they Gentiles or,
or are they still Gentile or no longer Gentiles? But, but, but this is not simply, it is not
exactly a contradiction, but it is an expression of the liminal status of the, of gentility. So
gentility, you have to say right. So, so because it is a transitional stage, you become a Gentile
once you recognize yourself as called by, by, by the gospel and, and addressed by the, by the
messenger. You can be, be an advocacy only if you become a Gentile and forget about your Roman
identity or whatever. But once you enjoy, once you join the ecclesiastical Gentile and Jews are,
these are oppositions that are, that make no, no more sense. You, you, yes, you stay in your
Gentility, but you are no longer a Gentile because vis-a-vis Christ, everyone is the same. So the,
the two coexist, the past and the present coexist in a very strange way, always
anticipating the future redemption with, in which everyone is equal. So this is one example.
Another is related to the revocation of, of the stat, of the calling. So he says,
well, think about yourself. Yes, you're, you're still a man, you're still a woman, you're a slave,
you're a master. You stay in your calling in the way you were called. This is Corinthian,
I forgot the seven, I think it's Corinthian, first Corinthian seven. Stay in your calling,
but these are nothing. They are act as if you were not. You are a master, but you should
think about yourself as if you are not. Because again, vis-a-vis Christ, there are,
all these divisions are nothing. But, and he also says that God is never,
the callings of God, this is the condition in which you were called, like circumcised,
uncircumcised, cannot be revoked because this is how God makes it. God doesn't change his mind.
But if you think about yourself as the priest in the temple of Zeus,
can you still be a priest in the temple of Zeus and join the ecclesia? If you think about yourself
in the practice, in the pagan practice worshipping some, some, some other gods,
this is what you were in your previous life. And now you want to join the ecclesia?
God must change his mind. And on this, he's silent. Because he chooses, very carefully,
the categories that are in this game of what can be and what should not be revoked. And
he's very silent on all the others. And this is part of how we can create the neutrality of the
Gentile. I think that's powerful because you mentioned in your book that Paul makes a reference
about a man who takes his father's wife. And he's like, not even the ethne do this. But you're also
calling the holy ones, your holy ones, ethne. So it's almost like there's two ethne and he means
something different in the context, depending on what he's using it for. So that's powerful that
you can see. I mean, the same word like with my old fundamentalist thinking and a lot of the friends
I talked to, they have this like, if the Greek word says ethne here, and it says ethne there,
it's like they know context is supposed to matter, but I don't think they can see past.
They don't know enough of the linguistic, the syntax, the kind of understanding like the language
enough to be able to see that they mean different things. If it looks the same, it is the same.
And that's a problem with not being educated, which is why I refer to experts to give me their
thoughts. It doesn't mean everything you say is true or right, but it's a great place to start and
ask the experts, like, why do you think this way? So I'm going to continue if that's okay with you
guys. Okay, because the English translation challenges, this is an important one. In 1996,
the issue of the Chicago Society of Biblical Research by James LeGrand entitled Proliferation
of the Gentile in the New Revised Standard Version, which according to Bowers, Greek lexicon argues
against use of Gentiles as a rendering of ethne. It's fairly easy to come up with examples where
when you line up in different translations of the term in question, some translations,
like the NRSV, have Gentiles while others have nations. This is especially true when comparing
quotations of the Hebrew Bible in the New Testament. Some of the key examples are those
that refer to descendants of Abraham as nations in translations of Romans 15, 8 through 12,
where translations often replace the Hebrew Bible's nations with Gentiles through Paul's
quotations. And I'll go ahead and share the screen. So can we address that one?
Yeah, sure. Listen, Romans 15 is a great example of his innovative usage of Scripture,
because what does he do there? He takes these verses that speak about Israelite or his people,
verses the ethne, the goyim. Now, clearly Paul knows that when the ethne are juxtaposed with
his people, it's about the collectives, it's nations. But he is translating these verses
to refer to his communities. He tells them these nations that will rejoice with his people,
these are you. So what some say, or what Samuel says, or what Deutronomy says,
rejoice your nation with his people, this applies to you. So the question of translation here
is whether we want to preserve the biblical meaning or the new meaning that Paul is struggling
to inject into this verse. But Paul himself, I would say, used both because he wants to keep
the connection to the biblical heritage, right? And yet, in a kind of special life,
kumranic like way, right? To make it apply to his new community. So I would say he's playing
exactly in this space between these two meanings. Because he does not keep the political meaning,
he loses the connection to the verses. And no translation can be perfect, but a translation
that would keep the sense of the transition, the effort to go from one context of meaning to
another context. This is the only translation that would do justice to the text, because we see here
an actual effort to change the meaning of a term.
If I may ask you gentlemen, an example, Deuteronomy 32-43, if we were to forget Paul for a second,
and just go to Deuteronomy 32-43, it seems to me, unless I have convoluted glasses on,
I'm forcing something that isn't there, that with his people, that's Israel, the nation. And the
nations are others that are not Israelites that are supposed to rejoice with Israel.
That's right. In this context, this is perfect. But you know that Israel could be called a goi
in the Bible. So that's important too, that you just said that, because usually they're
called a holy goi, but not always. They could be goi, just goi. Okay. And so there are people who
want to slip in that and say, well, if Israel can be called goi, you know what that means.
That means when you see a goi in Paul. I think this is an important remark. The people who read
the Bible in this way, assume something which we reject from the very beginning,
because we are historians. They assume that there was a meaning to the text. And this meaning may be
lost. But there is one meaning to the world, and it applies everywhere in the same way,
and it should be restored. And we know that this is not true, because we see how meanings change
all the time. This is language. Language is a living being. It cannot retain the old meaning forever.
Well said. Isha, would you like to comment on that? That was very well said.
I think that's a great example. The Doctronomy 32-43 is a great example, again, of Paul's
interpretive effort to use. And he's like picking very meticulously all these verses
that speak about the goyim as joining, as rejoicing with. And all this parallelism between,
because it's not only about the meaning, it's also about the structure. He takes all these
verses that use parallelism between his people and the etne, and use them in order to let them in.
So you see how persistent he is with, but he's also, in this specific place in Romans 15,
I would say that he kind of reveals his cards, reveals his tricks. Because otherwise, if he
wanted to hide the translational effort, he wouldn't bring these verses that
use this parallel between his people and the etne. Because that's called the trick. But what he does
is exactly this kind of kumranic passion. He's telling, you know, you are the new
addresses of these. And why are you the new addresses? Because the time comes. So we didn't
talk about eschatology. But eschatology is a very important part of this story. As Paula
Friedrichsen says, the time in God's watch, right? The time in God's watch. Since the time has come,
therefore, now this is the suitable reading. It was not the suitable reading, you know, maybe,
I don't know, 20 years ago, but now it is. That's very well said. Okay. And I think Paul does the
same thing in Romans 9 through 11. When he quotes all of these passages, you will leave us a remnant,
a seed. You will do this, you will do that. Like he's doing this same pressure stuff. And you know
what's interesting, I wanted to bring to your attention because I'm sure you guys have seen
this. We have great scholars like Dr. Staples, Paula Fredrichsen, Dr. Fredrichsen and others who
they don't agree on everything. Paula Fredrichsen says these are ex-Pagan pagans. Dr. Staples
agrees they're pagans, but they're kind of like fitting this both the northern Israel kingdom,
but also nations plural in the political sense in some way. And so this is interesting because
Paul's doing whatever he has to do to make all of these passages. And he does show his cards in
Romans 15. He's using clear passages that make a dichotomy between Israel and other nations and
then applies it to his ethne here in Romans 15. So if Romans 11's ethne were literally Israel,
he wouldn't be quoting the passages referring to the ethne that he has. You see, it's a
contradiction if you try to apply it that way. Anyway, I had to mention that. That's an interesting
point. You already know that we like contradictions. Yes, sir. I'm going to show you guys something.
And this is actually my friend who loves scholarship. He's asked this question and we've never had anyone
like address it on the air. And you guys being scholars in the field have probably heard of
this. There is a well-known textual variant in Deuteronomy 3243, which we were just reading about.
Paul uses these passages where a dead sea scroll and the Septuagint agree against the Masoretic.
But it has one line in red, as you guys see, where the MT, the Masoretic, and the LXX agree
against the dead sea scrolls. Your article states the following about this verse.
These verses explicitly equate Gentiles or Guayim ethne with people's nations. I mean,
is it how is it low? How do you pronounce the LAOI?
Again, how do you pronounce it? LAOI? Laos? Laos. Laos. The nations. Laos.
Yes. Rejoice, O Gentiles, with his people. Praise the Lord, all Gentiles, and let all the peoples
praise him. By citing these specific verses, Paul thus discloses the biblical ethnic origin
of the term and highlights its semantic shift, and thus the old meaning of Gentiles
as peoples does not appear altogether. It is still encapsulated in the word ethne,
which we've already talked about this, but articulating the recognition that the effort to
overcome ethnic markers occurs in a world, in a world that remains ethnic and is populated by
ethnic gods. So in this passage, do you have any take on this, I guess you could call it a
discrepancy going on, or textual variant? Yeah, look, the textual variants are not,
you know, very rare. We tend to think about the Bible, you know, from a kind of canonical
point of view, but we know from Qumran, from the Dead Sea Scrolls, and from comparing the
Septuagint to the Mesoradic text, that they're all kinds of versions, and clearly, you know, heavens
and nations in Hebrew, graphically, are very similar. Goyim and Shamaim are almost identical,
graphically. So there were different versions. That's not the exciting things here. The exciting
thing is the way Paul uses the verse, okay, in order to make his point, and that's the bold move
here, right? Using these verses about the nations and his people in order to make his point. But
as we said, you know, he used whatever he got, okay, in order to bring the point home, that,
you know, according to the Bible's own story, you are now let in.
I just want to say, he uses whatever he got from the Bible. We have to remember this.
And not for anything.
Also, different versions. He sometimes uses the Septuagint version. He sometimes uses the
Hebrew version, because he knows both. And so he can, you know, take advantage of the different
version, if it suits his cause. He's a sneaky guy. He's a sneaky, sneaky guy. I just must say.
He's a reader. He's an ancient reader. And that's what ancient readers do.
I would like to add something to his descriptions. You called him a radical, revolutionary,
sneaky, whatever. In my jargon, I would call him a generator of a new discourse. And this is a rare
phenomenon that a single individual can be credited with generating a new discourse. Because
discourse is usually an accumulation of mutations that somehow conglomerate into a new structure.
And many people participate in it. And the mark of an individual in this process is usually
inflated, because so many people contribute to it. But there are moments in history where you
can see something like this. So Marx, for example, is a generator, Carl Marx. If I can mention his
name alongside Paul, I hope it's not a blasphemy. Another radical Jew. So he is a generator of a
new discourse. Marx's discourse. You can say the Freud is someone like this, with his psychoanalysis.
Paul is one of these few. If we move for a moment just to the rabbis, to the
first, second central rabbis, there you must speak about many people. It's not a single one.
Individual who initiated this kind of new discourse that we describe in the book. It's
really a whole community. Everyone contributed something. And then gradually we some at a
certain moment we see, well, there is something really radically different than what was before.
But there is no moment where we can say, here this man is responsible for it.
Interesting. So gods are ethnic. So I'm going to focus on this for a second, because this is
in Paula Fredrickson spends a lot of time talking about this in her lectures.
The God of Israel is Israel's God. It's an ethnic God. And I must say before I continue that like
you can become part of Israel according to certain contexts within Hebrew scriptures by
becoming circumcised and joining covenant with Israel and the promises and all these things are
now applied to you. But it is you had to become Israel to be able to ultimately
have those covenants and be in covenant with the God of Israel. Some God fears from a distance
would go dabble with Zeus and Apollo and all these gods and then come and they worship Yahweh
from a distance. If it's OK that I say his name, I don't mean any disrespect by saying God's name
because I know that Jews do have some Jews. Yes. And so I'm careful. You know,
you guys are more scholarly and open minded to documentary hypothesis and things like that so
that I didn't know. The gods are ethnic, which would mean it doesn't just work one way. It's not
just Israel. It's like everyone else has the same thing. Paul's tearing down this wall. And so
I wanted to mention a few scholars that attempt to solve the paradox by using the Roman concept
of adoption. The Gentile believers become an adopted sons of Abraham or offer other categories
or metaphors of hybridity, such as a third race, E.P. Sanders, honorary Jews, Christopher Sendall,
ex-Pagan pagans, which I always thought was interesting when she said that, Paula Fredrickson,
the lost tribes of Israel, Dr. Jason Staples, or even Gentile Jews, Joshua Garraway. These
definitions only name the paradox. They do not explain why it's necessary in the first place.
Would you guys like to give us out of those scholars in your estimation, who's closest to,
you know,
We believe that they're all kind of, you know,
kind of circling the same, you know, paradox, the same problem. And the only problem between,
the only distinction between them and us is that we celebrate this paradox, meaning they kind of,
they try to carve a place and to say, well, it's very strange because they're neither here nor
there, right? And we say, yes, exactly. They're neither here nor there. That's what Paul invents.
He invents, he carved this in between place, right, between the pagans and the Israelite.
Okay. And that's his idea of gentility. Okay. Gentility is their way in. Okay. Being ethnic,
coming as ethnic is the way, because they can't come as Israelite, because they're not circumcised,
right? And they can't come as just general human beings because, because he wants to keep this
sacred story of election, right? So the trick he comes with is that they will come as ethnic.
And so Gentiles is exactly for him, this category of in between. And that's why it was not preserved,
right? Because once they're in, they didn't need it, you know, anymore. So they don't see themselves
as, as ethnic, right? They see themselves now as, you know, from the beginning of second century as,
as Christianity, as Christians, right? As, as, and, and, and, and so we kind of embrace these
paradox and say, yes, this is exactly the Paul's innovation in order to A, let them in, B, keep
the, the sacred story and C, and that's something very important that we didn't emphasize enough
and, and C preserved the Israelites intact as a group. So because he wants to keep the Israelite
code without the Israelites, he doesn't have a story. And Adi is an expert with the philosophy.
So I know that helped in, in, in trying to wrap your head around a paradox because
philosophy is perfect for this. So would you like to elaborate on some of that as well?
I think that Isha said it, well, I mean, there's nothing, there's nothing really philosophical here.
It's, it's, it's, I would say it's, it's an analysis of discourse. And it is, it is an attempt to,
to understand, not, not to solve the paradox, but to reconstruct the way that what seems to
us paradoxical actually works in creating new meanings in, in the story and in creating new
possibilities. And, and this is exactly what Isha described now. Interesting. That was you say that
paradoxes are, might be a, you know, unnecessary for what you call the generator of a new discourse?
Not necessarily. I don't think that there is a general, a general algorithm for
if we had,
yeah, well, but not everyone is committed to the old as Paul was. So if you want,
it's in the, in Paul context, it was necessary because he had to play with the old and the new
together. But if you just want to get rid of the, of the old, as Marx wanted, then it's a different
story. And you can be coherent. You can be more coherent. Yes. Definitely. This, this brings up
an interesting point. I've heard Philo was arguing with other Jews that were Hellenistic.
However, they were extreme and they were saying Torah is all about the real meaning is spiritual.
So they started to say, look, you don't have to practice circumcision. You don't have to practice
the Torah. You don't have to eat kosher. Those things are pointing to spiritual things. And I
think one Enoch hints at some of the thinking kind of behind spiritualizing Torah. Paul does
something like this too. And I wanted to ask you your thoughts on this because he in 1 Corinthians
nine is arguing with the Corinthian church for him and Barnabas. And he's saying, look, we can't get
paid, but these guys can get paid. Not that I want any of your money. But, you know, like he's,
he's arguing with them. And then he says, it is written and you shall not, you know,
muzzle your oxen while it, while it's working in the field. And he says, does God care about oxen?
No, it's talking about us. And now that is radical because that tells us his cards. He's showing
his cards and he's saying, look, I will use any of the scriptures and use a pasture to spiritualize
or give it my own meaning for what I need done right now with my context. And I just say that to
say, is Paul like what Philo's arguing against? Because Paul seems very spiritualizing of things
extreme. Yeah, not really. You know, you picked a, one of the only verses when he does that.
And that's really, you know, that's a verse that the rabbis struggled with also. And actually,
this specific question, does God, you know, really care about oxen is a question that the
Midrash, you know, ask also, but he doesn't do it in any systematic way. Look, he doesn't allegorize
the issue of, you know, food purity. And, and he could, you know, he could say in Galatians, too,
you can eat with the Gentiles, because the whole issue of, you know, kosher and non kosher food
is an allegory. He doesn't do that, right? Right. He doesn't do that with the holidays. He doesn't
say like, you know, we know that Christians will do that in the second century, that Justin
Martyr does that with all the commandments, right? Read them allegorically. So with the Shabbat, you
know, and with everything. But Paul does not do that because he is an apostle to the ethnic. And
so for him, you know, Jews, you know, continue to keep the commandments. And maybe he personally
did. We don't know, but, you know, he might as well. But so, but his mission is to let these
Gentiles in. So he, he's not, and he was not educated in Alexandria. He was educated in Jerusalem.
You know, he's not, he's not part of this story that that Philo is struggling again. So no, I think
we will miss the, you know, the cord if we, you know, see him as Justin kind of, you know,
spiritualizing, allegorist. We maybe have hints that, you know, that he learned from his Greek
teachers or, you know, whatever. But that's not his mission. And he certainly does not do it,
you know, in any systematic way. Wow. Although he could. And that might, you know, might make life
easier for him. It's too vague to try and he doesn't say enough for you to draw those conclusions.
That's a good point. Because just because he's arguing against Kephus or Peter, if you'd like to
call him Kephus, he's arguing with him. You're a hypocrite, you know, he could have at that moment
said, you know, this doesn't even matter. And you're making it matter. But he doesn't say that
either. So that's a good point. Adi, I know you got to go soon. And I only have a few more points.
But do you have to go ahead and go now? I would like to say goodbye. But before I say goodbye,
I would like to say what just one point, maybe you can continue with this later. I
said before, I emphasized before the transitional status of Gentile as a concept, as a status.
So it was introduced in order to allow the growth of the, and its effect, not in order,
its effect was allowing the fast growth of the of the church. And once the church became hegemonic,
it didn't need it anymore. But at precisely the same time, it became the one of the most
constitutive concept for the rabbinic Jews. They took, well, not literally took, but
they used the same abstraction, the same opposition that Paul drew. And they said, yes,
we are Israel, you are the Gentiles. And from there, they continued to build an entire system
of halachic law based on the exclusion of the Gentile from the law in various meanings,
of exclusion, various ways of exclusion that I will leave each I do to explore,
because I'm sorry I have to go. But I think that the difference between the
temporary function of the concept for Paul and the long term, you know, functionality of this,
of this term for rabbinic Judaism could not be more, you know, emphasized.
Well, thank you so much. Let's thank you again sometime. Thank you. All right. So,
Isha, I don't know if, yeah, so, okay, you want to run with that? I've got some more points, man.
I've got to drive a few things with you, if you don't mind, by the way.
Hey, shoot, shoot, let's do it fast.
So, did you want to comment on what he said?
No, I think, I mean, that's a large part of our book, the, you know, the rabbinic kind of
conception of the guy, because they share with Paul, you know, this binary division,
but instead of kind, you know, doing the next move is saying, yeah, but that doesn't really matter.
They adopt it, right? As I would say, the main thing that matter, they kind of,
it's, you can see it as a reaction, right? And the opposite. Yeah. This is the division,
and we adhere to it. And rabbinic literature is really the first literature that we have to,
you know, to be built around this, you know, this distinction, this binary distinction.
And that's what makes it so, because of the centrality of rabbinic, you know, literature,
to them, you know, subsequent, you know, Judaism's, it's really hard to imagine,
you know, a pre-goy, you know, Jewish cultures or Judean cultures. And that's a large chunk of our,
you know, of our effort to reconstruct this pre-goy, you know,
Judean cultures. So, when Josephus say that Herod was a hemiodios, was a half Jew,
what does he mean? In rabbinic terms, this is meaningless. This is simply meaningless, okay?
But for him, you know, it was totally, you know, logical to say that someone is a half Jew,
okay? So, so we have to make sense of these, of these cultures.
That's interesting that you say that. That kind of goes into some of what I'm going to get into here,
the uncircumcision in Second Temple literature. After the episode we discussed via email that
the rabbis innovated the idea that uncircumcised Jew is still a full-blown Jew, the rabbis
believed, not a Gentile in the binary system. And Paul juxtaposes the Jews and the Gentiles with
respect to circumcision, Galatians 2 verse 9. They gave the right hand of fellowship to Barnabas and
me that we should go to the ethne Gentiles and they to the circumcised. So, right there, you know,
we're going to these guys, you're going to those. You mentioned during the interview that the
returnees from the Babylonian exile per Ezra Nehemiah saw the people of the land as non-Judians
and you described other pre-goi conceptions of the other as a kind of internal polemic within
Israelite society at large. And most importantly, you mentioned that an uncircumcised Jew for Josephus
and Philo, in particular, is not really an Israelite. And this is contrasted with the rabbis in the
post-goi period, who would never consider apostate Jews as goyim, strictly speaking. I'd like to
pull up and discuss the references you cited from the 1st century BC and 1st century AD that back
this idea up, if that's okay with you. And then if you want to just like comment on these and like
explain it, take a stew it a little. So, first Maccabees, one. So, you want me to talk about these
verses? Yeah, like what's in the vein of that discussion, if you don't mind, you don't have to
read them all. I think anyone can read them, they could pause the video, read it themselves,
and then listen to what you say. But you have all these in your mind, I know you know these.
So, listen, let me explain. There's a, I don't remember exactly what, you know, term
I used, but maybe the exact term is not really Jews or Judeans, but not full, you know, Judeans.
Because we have to separate between two phenomena here. And that's, I think, will make kind of
more sense if we, if we separate two phenomena. One is the attempt to recircle the limits of what,
you know, Judaism is, like Ezra and the returnees do. They say, no, only us are real Israel,
and the others are not. Okay, so that's one phenomena. Another phenomena is to say,
those, you know, heretics are not actual Israelites. Okay, that's what First Maccabees do,
that's what Josephus does. Now, you ask me, well, wait a minute, are there like the Gentiles,
or are, do they become Gentiles, right? And I, my answer is this question already assumes
the binary division. And so this is by definition an anachronistic question. Because
for them, one could be somewhere on the way, like, like this semi-Jew, right? That, that
Josephus call Herod. So what they say is that, well, they're not now really, you know, they're not
really now part of us. They're, they're way, they're way there. They might be, you know,
on the way out, there might be already half, you know, half way out. But the thing is that it's,
there's no one, you know, minute that you cross the border. Okay, that's a Rabino-centric, you know,
way to see. You are, you know, you're on your way out. So that's my answer. They, they, they become
gentelized. Okay. And for the rabbis, now they will have to decide. You're either here or there. So
large chunk of their discursive effort is to place all these categories inside or outside. So
they had to decide, right? Samaritans. Are they in or out? Good question too, by the way.
Judizing, you know, figures who were not circumcised. Are they in or out? But that's a new problem.
That's a new problem since, you know, from the time that the wall was, that the binary distinction
was, was built. So if you'll ask Philo, are they real gentiles or not real gentiles? I'm not sure
he would even follow your question. They're not part of us already. They're, they're way out there.
This is interesting. This is so important. You have a different motive than me in this whole
topic. And I love it because the very thing that the rabbis are doing is building a wall
that Paul, or at least Pseudo-Paul in Ephesians, is literally breaking that wall down. And
there, the people that I have engaged that I'm, you know, not really engaging much anymore,
except for a few of them that are really good friends, they believe that that wall of separation
and Ephesians two is actually a separation between gentilized Israelites of the Northern Kingdom and
Judah, Jews. They, they, they interpret that through those passages.
But that's for me, they're part of the history of interpretation of Paul.
I don't feel a special need to refute this. Okay, fine. There's like hundreds of readings of Paul.
That's one of them. Unless it becomes, of course, you know, something that is connected to, you know,
to immoral, you know, racist, you know, actions, then, you know, we have to condemn it on the moral
ground. But on interpretive ground, you know, Paul was used to in so many contexts, you know,
and read in so many contexts. So that's another one. Yeah, yeah, I just thought I'd throw that out there
to me in an interpretive paradigm. It makes more sense the binary between Israel and others, or
Jew and others makes more sense. I want to ask you a personal question, if you don't mind. And this
is just, and then I have to live to take my Israelite children, you know, from
this is good, you know, like actual genealogy. Are you sure? No, I'm just kidding.
That's a good question. I don't know. I'm just, I'm just teasing. No, I definitely believe you.
My question is this, the lost tribes of Israel, that's not even something that you guys deal with
in your book. Your book's not about that. But do you agree that they,
do you think that the lost tribes of Israel motif is a mythological motif that isn't literally true,
like in the literal sense, but it's a faith thing that Josephus has?
Look, according to the Bible, the Israelite, the 10 tribes were exiled, right? That's probably
history. And then what happened, probably what happened is what happened to other peoples that
were exiled to Assyria, meaning they were mixed with the others and, you know, and assimilated.
But the prophets, right, use it as a recurring theme of, you know, the expected return. From that
moment on, it became, from a simple historical fact, into a myth. A myth, not in the sense that
it's a simple lie. A myth in the sense that it's something that a community tells itself, right?
In order to kind of create a cohesive, right, a kind of glue, right? So when Jeremiah says,
you know, and the lost tribes will return, right? And they will become one, right? Or when
Ezekiel speak about, probably these tribes were already gone. They were already part of the,
but for them and for these prophets and for their community, this was a very powerful idea. So I
take it as a history of ideas, right? The idea of the 10th tribe as something that, you know,
that the prophets talk about, that the rabbis talk about as part of their vision of the, right,
of the eschatology, etc. So for me, these groups that you speak about are part of this history of,
right, of interpretation and reinterpretation and re-usage of this idea to create self-identity.
That's what communities do. They use, you know, ancient ideas to create self-identity.
Wow. That was well said. I need to get more of your books and that's the only way I'm going to
get you back on the show. I feel like the only way I'm going to get you back on is we have exhausted
this book and we really could get into the rabbis more, but I want to read some of your other books
because I think it'll overlap some of what you write in this book and I would like to learn more
from you because you are well aware of things I'll never be aware of. So. Pleasure to be continued.
To be continued, ladies and gentlemen, do not forget. Go down in the description, get the book,
ebook, get it paperback. If you got money, get you a hardback version. I really recommend you
guys get on the same page because this is scholarship for you, man. This is amazing. So,
thank you so much for joining me. Thank you. And don't forget, we are Myth, Vision, Israelites.
No, I'm just kidding.
