I want to know the true origins of Islam. So I invited Dr. Peter von Severs to join me for this
episode. He said, as he's been examining the origins of Islam for many decades, that there's
an aspect that is not quite understood or studied on the same depth that he has in Islamic origins.
And what that is is the Christology and the Christianities that are in the areas of Arabia
and the known world. From Rome, Persia, and down into Arabia, the Saracens and the Arabs,
were they Christians? What kind of Christians? And the earliest voice within Islamic tradition
is the Quran. We shouldn't trust something coming hundreds of years later to take to the bank.
And Dr. von Severs clearly tells me, Derek, the Quran is a reaction. Pay attention closely as he
educates us on the history. He knows world history, but also specifically this time period,
very well, on what led up to what we call Islam. We are Myth Vision. Welcome back to
Myth Vision podcast. I have a special treat, and I mean that. This is going to be highly intellectual,
engaging in history, really getting to the bottom of some ideas. And so with that being said,
I have a special guest, and that is Dr. Peter von Severs. Is it Severs or am I saying it correctly?
Severs, yeah. Severs, welcome to Myth Vision. How are you?
Yeah, I reckon. Thanks for inviting me.
Thank you. I want everybody to know he has an academia page. Please go jump on that. I actually
joined academia as well. So I have a profile. He has a profile. You definitely want to go there.
Many publications he has written, and some of the stuff we're going to talk about today,
you will find on his academia to dive much deeper into the data. I do want everybody to know as
well that you have credentials at Salt Lake City, Utah, but you actually are an emeritus
university professor on history, but not only Middle Eastern history, like world history,
if I'm not mistaken, right? That's right. Yeah. So you know a thing or two about history.
Okay. I'm a historian, a full-blooded historian. Yes.
Is there anything I missed in terms of your education that you might want to highlight for
audience? Yeah. Well, as you probably recognize from my accent, I'm originally from Germany.
I studied in Munich and got my PhD there at the university. But I came already to the United
States in 1968, where Gustav Unguderbaum invited me to UCLA. And since at the same time, I also
found the love of my life and got married to an American who had come to Munich to learn
German in order to prepare for her PhD at the University of Chicago. We got married and I
started my career at UCLA. And so then I stayed in the United States.
Congratulations. Not everybody finds the one. Okay. What piqued your interest, if I may,
as we're diving into this? Why the origins of Islam? Why was that fascinating to you?
I shortly after finishing high school, a friend and I wanted to go to Algeria,
which at that time was fighting for its independence. It was impossible to get
re-signed. Obviously, it was even more difficult to get into a war zone. And so instead, we ended up
in Morocco. But it was so fascinating for me that when I came back to Munich, I studied then
Middle East and studies history and Islam. And so that's where it all began.
Wow. Well, thank you so much for that. And I hope our audience will go down in the description.
There is an episode specifically that caught my attention about Dr. Sievers. You want to check
it out. It will be linked down in the description where he gives a lecture on Islamic origins.
Some of the stuff may or may not be mentioned during the episode today. But maybe there's
going to be stuff we talk about that isn't mentioned in this lecture. So if you really want
to take a deep dive, I really recommend you check that out in any of the other links we have down
in the description that will be there so you can go check out the material. With that being said,
today's discussion is about the backstory of Islam, the world in which Islam was born in.
And to start with, I would like to have a look at the two superpowers at the time, Byzantine Empire
and the Persian Empire. So let's begin with the Byzantine Empire. If I may,
this is a map just so people can kind of get a visual idea on the map, what it would look like.
You see the Persian Empire to the east. You have the Byzantine Empire, Constantinople's right here.
You see it in the middle. Can you tell us more about this empire? When was it formed? How long
did it last for? And who was the emperor during the time of what we call Muhammad?
Yeah. Well, so the Roman Empire, we actually have to call it. And scholars are debating forever
when one should call it Byzantium or Byzantine Empire. I usually make the
transition at around 610 when Emperor Heraclius came to power. And he was, of course, the one
who was beaten by the Arabs when they conquered between in the early 630s. And so at that time,
then I say, okay, it was Byzantium. And the reason for that is that Heraclius made himself
a Christian king, no longer a Roman Empire. So he changed his titles and so on. So the Roman Empire,
of course, was initially pagan, but then became Christian in the waning years of the 300s.
And so in the 400s and 500s, Christianity then expanded everywhere. And so including also in
Syria and a good portion of Arabia and so on. So by the time, let's say the mid 500s, which would
be the period where I seriously begin to look at what happened there so that we can then
understand half a century later the beginning of Islam. So in the mid 500s, the Roman Empire,
everybody called it the Roman Empire. Even later than the Arabs who conquered called it room. And
that is, of course, Rome and stood for the Roman Empire. So it's only we scholars who call it Byzantium
from about 610 or some call it already Byzantium in the 500s. However, that may be, I mean, that's
not important. The important point, however, is that in the mid 500s, a fierce Christological
debate was raging throughout the Roman Byzantine Empire concerning, when I say Christ, Christ,
Christological debate concerning what exactly was the crucifixion, who was killed on the cross,
and the person on the cross, Jesus, did he suffer or did he not suffer? And so there were some
Christians. Well, we have to say, of course, when Christianity became official in the Roman Empire,
there were fierce theological debates, including the nature of Jesus and so on. And then, of course,
from Nicaea and later Calcedon on, there was an Orthodox Christianity. Let me call it
Calcedonism or the Calcedonian Church. Calcedon is a city in Anatolia where
these doctrines were defined and then officially pronounced. So the debate in the mid 500s was
that Jesus, who was killed on the cross, was he entirely divine? That was the position of
the Maya physites or let me, because that's a very technical term, which I would not want to
define. So we are not going into the natures of Christ very deeply. Let's say the Jacobites after
Jacob Baradayus, who was a proselytizer in Syria, converting the Arabs to Christianity. So we have
to, we should be sure, and I do not believe at all, that there were still pagans in Arabia. So there
might have been lots of Arab tribes who were not very Christian, perhaps, but what else is new?
How many real Christians are around today? So there's no point in quibbling about this.
Arabia was Christian. So the Jacobites were the majority and they believed,
they were what is called theopascites. In other words, Jesus was near to the cross,
but because he was, let me be a bit cavalier now with theology, he was God on the earth. So
he was entirely divine. He had only one nature that was divine. That's what the Jacobites said.
And so when he was crucified, obviously God suffered and died. That was considered to be
scandalous and efforts were made then, both in the official Christian church of the Byzantine empire
and then also among a group condemned by those who believed in the full divinity of Christ.
The so-called Eastern Syrian church, later they were called Nestorians. So let me call them
Nestorians, even though it's anachronistic. They believed, let me briefly describe their position,
they believed that Jesus had two natures, one divine, one human. And when Jesus was
nailed to the cross, only the human Christ suffered and died. The divine Jesus obviously
couldn't because God cannot be nailed to the cross obviously. So the second position, which
we might describe as let's say more rational, but it was very difficult to fully combine the two
natures. So there were always debates on were there two persons who serve one person, how many
natures and so on. Let me make this brief. The people who later became the Nestorians, the Eastern
Christians, were essentially pushed out, this was after Ephesus and 431, pushed out of the
Byzantine empire and became the Christians and now we are turning to the Sasanid Persian empire.
So they settled there and built up the Eastern Christian church which continued to adhere to
this new nature theory. Now again, a long story short. In the course of the 500s, when these fierce
debates broke out over the nature of Jesus, the main antagonists were on one hand the Jacobites who
believed in the single divine nature and therefore in God's suffering on the cross, were opposed by
the Easterness or Nestorians who said, now Jesus had two natures and it was only the human nature
in Jesus that suffered and eventually died on the cross. The reason why I'm getting, and of
course there was a middle position which the Byzantines tried to take because of course
they had a strong imperial interest in having all of the different Christian churches,
essentially then from the second half of the 500s onwards, to be one under one patriarch in
Constantinople and of course also there was the pope or the bishop of Rome and also under
Roman Byzantine authority. If I may just to poke in as we go because actually some of these images
actually I have are related to exactly what you're talking about here. So it was the capital,
the capital was Constantinople. This was the church, just so everybody knows,
being Constantinople would have looked like back in the time during Muhammad, of course without the
minarets. Good that you took the minarets off so that one has an impression of the
Roman Byzantine period. Exactly and this right here obviously as well, I just want to show an
inside look at that same church. Here you have the Christ, Jesus on the ceiling and then this is
one of the famous paintings we see images on Google when we're looking up Jesus. We've all
seen this I think, this is inside that very church. The art is absolutely fascinating there.
So I just want everybody, oh go ahead. Why do you have this image? Let me put it out, maybe
one really would have to get close and look at the face. But the face is half human and half divine
if you look very carefully. So in other words, one half of the face expresses some of the suffering
that Jesus experienced on the cross. The other one was the divine Jesus who of course did not
suffer on the cross. So here you have a visual representation of this. That's the position
that Chalkeedon or Calzidon took, which is essentially that of the Eastern Christians,
but not entirely so. And the reason why I mentioned this is now that the Jacobites were
outraged in the course of the 500s. I say this deliberately in the course of the 500s.
And I want to get a little more into the details so that this becomes clear.
They were outraged that both the Calzidon, the church that tried to compromise between
the two, let's call them extreme positions, God being entirely divine and God being a half
divine half human. The fierce debate in the second half of the 500s was then
culminated then in a figure, John of Taylor, so he died in 538. He denounced the main person
of the Eastern Syrian church by being another Judas. So in other words, he betrayed the official
Christian position according to which the Jews crucified Jesus. Now, we know better, of course,
even, I mean, any careful reading of the Gospels makes it clear that the Romans were the ones,
not the Jews. But of course, the Jews were sympathetic to the Romans taking
Jesus essentially off their hands. That's the situation. Now, this John of Taylor denounced
the stories by saying he is the new Judas because he dares to say that the Jews did not kill Jesus.
And therefore, he is just after his scammers in the Christian church because we all know that the
Jews killed him. So that was the position, the polemics of the Jacobites and the Quran picked
up the polemics and also declared, no, Jesus was not killed on the cross. It only seemed to the
Jews that way. This is a crucial verse in the Quran. It's a 457, I think. I made a little note,
yeah, 457. If listeners want to write this down and check in the Quran. It's a crucial verse because
already in the year 437, maybe 637, maybe 640. So in the last days of the Arab conquest of Iraq,
the bishop of Nisbis at that time, the third, said, had apparently Arab conquerors who
informed him what the Arabs were all about. And he said, well, we should not fear the Arabs who are
in the process of conquering us because like we, they do not believe that Jesus suffered and died
on the cross. So here you have in a nutshell the beginning of Islam. This is great. Okay,
I'm going to keep moving here with some images here. I want everybody to take a look here at
the superpower of the time, the Persian Empire. This is the map and what it looks like, what it
looked like, if you will, just to give an idea. Can you tell us some more about this empire? When
was it formed? How long did it last? Or who was the emperor during the time of Muhammad?
Yeah, so Iran, of course, is a very old empire. Way back, one of the kings of Iran was even a
Messiah according to the Bible because he was responsible for resettling the Jews,
releasing them from the Persian Empire so that they could return to Jerusalem and build the
second temple. So there you have an old connection between Iran and the Persian kingdom and Christianity.
King Cyrus, yeah. Cyrus, right. Now, fast forward, the Sasanians or Sasanids
founded the most recent version of the Persian Empire. And throughout, again, the second half of
the 500s, early 600s, they were in constant war with the Romans or Byzantium. And in fact,
they were usually more victorious in the Romans. The Romans were quite defensive.
And in the last war, the one that was led by Kossero II, so he was then eventually the last king
because he was overthrown by the Persians themselves in 628,
when the Romans finally under Heraclitus were able to defeat him. So in 628, that was, of course,
the turning point. Heraclitus was victorious. The Persians were defeated. And so Heraclitus,
wisely, however, because he was not completely firmly in the saddle. He had come to power only
through a coup in 610. He wisely let the Persians fight it out among themselves. And of course, then
in the subsequent years, with a lot of turmoil among the Sasanids,
eventually the Arabs were able to conquer all of Iraq and then ultimately Iran and
the last king of the Persians then was defeated. But the Persian Empire or the Sasanid Empire was
extremely powerful in the second half of the 500s. And the Romans or the
funded bearers were able to defend themselves. Now, because Iraq saw the western portion of the
Sasanid Empire was Christian in its majority, and Qataisi phoned the capital or Madin in Arabic,
was, yeah, that's a, yeah, I might as well just go through it so people can actually see these.
Yeah. And your viewers should actually compare it to the Agia Sophia in Constantinople,
because it is just as impressive and imposing showing you the enormous power that the Sasanids
possessed. Yeah, there you are. I just, I wanted to show what a recreation would have looked like.
Reconstruction, right? Yeah, that's what it would have looked like. This is what we have left,
just to give you an idea. Yeah. Now, the Christians in Iraq, so those Eastern Christians who were
denounced as followers of Judas, believing in the true nature. Followers of Judas.
In the true nature theology of Jesus. And that was, even though it was a polemic,
originally a polemicism of the Jacobites in Syria, it was picked up by the Arabs who were
forming the Islam in the first decades of the 600s. If you want, we can come back to this
quote, formation of the of the Quran as well. But it is important to be aware that already in 637,
so in other words, about eight years, well, 632 is a traditional date of the death of Muhammad.
I'm not so sure it might have happened earlier, but that's a secondary question.
Be this as I may, it was just a few years after the death of Muhammad. Already at that time,
the Christians in Iraq knew via issue, yeah, yeah, the third knew what all of these conquering
Arabs were all about. In other words, there were Christian, but maybe not quite along the official
line. But who represented the official line anyway? Cancelon, but they were contested by
the myophysites, as well as the Easter Christians, although they were outside the empire and so
therefore they did not have any particular power political connection with the visit. Nevertheless,
Heraclius made an effort to re-invite the Easter Christians into the larger church, Calcedon.
Heraclius was almost desperately concerned to bring the Christians back together,
particularly after he had lost Syria to the Arabs, which happened by 640. So at that time,
he was just desperate to reunite all of the Christians in order to have something to resist
the Arabs. So ask me further questions. Yeah, yeah. So during that time, there was a version
around this period, if you don't mind, like a version of what we call COVID-19. It was the
Justinian plague, which caused huge devastation across the empire. Can you tell us more about
this plague and the scale of the devastation this pandemic caused? Yeah, one cannot draw
any particular connection between the plague and the Christological developments that we
have just been talking about. Nevertheless, it happened at the time of Justinian. And Justinian
was also like Heraclius already at that time, so 550 years or 70 years early, very concerned about
either keeping Christianity together or getting all of the Christian denominations back together.
So it was right in the middle of his tenure that the Justinian plague occurred. We are still not
exactly sure from where it came. I believe now is, so here I'm putting on the head of the world
historians, so to speak. Historians think maybe that it came from East Asia, but that is still
debatable. Furthermore, it's also not completely clear how that plague developed, because of course
we know one form of the Black Death is connected with the rats. Another form is transmitted directly
and doesn't need the rats. So whatever the background there, it was of course devastating
in the middle of the century, the 500s. But it was a first cycle. We don't know how many
were killed, but what is important is there were repetitive cycles reaching way into the 700s.
And an interesting detail here is that the Umayyads, the first Caliph dynasty who came to power in 660,
they suffered these periodic recurrences of the Justinian plague. And instinctively,
they knew that they shouldn't stay in the cities on the coast of Syria or in the interior.
So we're talking about Caesarea, Damascus, Jerusalem, Hens, whatever. They shouldn't stay in
the cities, but should go into the clean air of the desert, where the quote vapors of the Black
Death would hit them. And that's actually part of the background for the Umayyads having these
wonderful castles in the Syrian desert that are architectural jewels, also the paintings there.
I mean, we all think that Islam is an iconic or against images. The Umayyads were great lovers
of frescoes, even of the naked body and of backwards and what have you. So that's the result
of the recurrent cycle. So every 20, 30 years, and eventually the Black Death petered out only
in the maybe the 720s, 30s. So we can assume that the overall population in Syria and in the
Eastern Mediterranean, it was considerably reduced. In fact, this Black Death actually reached also
as far as Western Europe. So it was quite devastating. Wow. Okay. So now we're getting back
into zooming in from world history back into what's going on with this development. And I actually
wasn't too long ago interviewed Dr. Michael Penn. I don't know if you know. Oh, yeah.
We talked about this and you know, he mentioned the largest church in the Middle East was the
church of the Syriac Christian, and they'd within themselves had different sects. So if I can,
I'd like to show a few examples of like these different kinds of sects. And I might have a
hard time pronouncing this. You can help me here. But the monophysitism, is that how you say it?
Monophysitism. Monophysitism. And what is this doctrine? What are they teaching? Okay. So here
we are back to what I was talking about a little earlier, the Jacobites. So the monophysites in
Syria were called Jacobites. Okay. They were also predominant in Egypt. And there we call them
also monophysites. I prefer the term Maya physites, rather than mono. Maya means one.
Mono was, was, is already a sort of compromise that was concluded at the beginning of the five
bundles by Severos, who was a bishop of Antioch. He also, he was inclined toward
this reconciliation that Justinian wanted to bring about. And so there were periodic efforts
by the emperors and the patriarchs of Constantinople to bring those monophysites or Maya physites
or Jacobites. These are all identical. Right. Just like the Saracens and the Arabs and
Exactly. Yeah. And, and, and the Taiyai, by the way. So there we go. So the periodic efforts
by the emperors to bring those monophysites or Maya physites back into the fold, but then
the Maya physites always resisted their astronomy. And sometimes they were,
or most of the times they were aggressively opposed to both the Calcedonians or the main
imperial church. That would be these people. It seems on the far left, two unified natures.
Calcedon, two is the far left. Yeah. Okay. Let's stick with this picture for a moment.
Yes. I try to avoid this business about two natures, one nature and so on by saying
Christians who said Jesus had only one nature. And that's, of course, the far right divine,
which in many ways is the, how should we call it, the, the most natural attitude anyone would take
towards Jesus because any person one looks at obviously has only one nature. I mean,
we are talking now here and I presuppose in my conversation with you that you are not split
into two natures. Right. Right. So the common sense attitude is Jesus could have only had
one nature. And of course, if you have to choose between the two, we had to have a divine nature.
That's the most natural position one could take. And so therefore that was the reason why the Maya
physites of the Jacobites were so attractive in the 500s and why they had so many supporters
and why the Calcedon church was so much of the defensive. Now, the one people with the
two, what is called here, two separate nature, two separate nature. Unfortunately, this is wrong.
Nestorianism does not talk about two separate natures. It talks about also, well, it talks
about two natures, but it talks about one person in whom these two natures came together.
So that is very different. And obviously it's as close as these guys with the two nature people
could come to the idea that the common sense approach that anybody would take
is that Jesus was divine. Nevertheless, it was very important for the Nestorians to say,
now wait a minute. It is incredibly important that Jesus had a human nature because otherwise
we cannot explain the suffering and death of Jesus on the cross. And anyone who is not prejudiced
and reads the Gospels, particularly Matthew, well, Mark just as much, is struck how human
Jesus is in the Gospels. In fact, I grew up as a Lutheran partisan. For me, it was completely
natural that Jesus was primarily human and only secondarily divine because how could he have saved
me or all the other Protestants? How could he have saved us unless he had sacrificed himself?
So you can see here how one's feelings are torn really between the one and the other Jesus.
And so I'm commenting here, by the way, very sympathetically about theological positions,
you see. I'm not talking about a historian in this particular case. I'm talking here very neutrally
about why it is that we, on one hand, want to be Jesus, to be human, but on the other hand,
why it is also very important that he is divine. Now, back to the 500s, because the
Myaphysites or the Jacobites were so aggressive, we can say in an overall sense, there was a
development in antiquity. So from 30, when we assume Jesus was crucified, 3270, when
the Jewish uprising was violently suppressed by the Romans and all of the Jews were driven out of
Jerusalem, from that period on in all antiquity, the more aggressive development was towards the
divinization of Jesus. So Islam came at the culmination when this divinization process occurred.
And Islam is, of course, the backlash. Okay, Jesus was made human again. Now, the historians
were the ones who had engaged in the backlash already much earlier, but they were, of course,
driven out into the Persian Empire. And so, therefore, they were ineffective in the Byzantine
Empire. That is why the Jacobites of Myaphysites were so powerful in Syria. And it is very clear,
and I cited this issue at the beginning with this famous verse already in 437
that indicates there was an awareness of what is called theopathicism, that is,
God died on the cross and suffered before he died. That position was victorious, really. But
Islam is a counter reaction to this. So technically, if I may, I'm a lay person,
I really just barely am scratching the surface here, and I want to know if I'm right. So this
gentleman here, Heraclus, who is literally desperate, decides he's going to reach over to the eastern
side or really the western side of the Persian army or empire, where this is the king who gets
end up usurped and whatnot, and get these, what we keep calling, let me get this image back up here,
the Myophytes. No, he wanted to get the Nestorians. Nestorians, okay. The middle. The middle,
even though this isn't completely accurate, it's still, he's trying to get the Nestorians to come
back, and so there's all of this theological war going on, but also political, you can't divorce
the two. They're one and the same. And here is these Arabs who are actually going along with
making, it's a reaction to divinity, to the point where, no, he is not a son of God. No,
he is not God. You know, God is not, do not make Jesus God at all. So it's reactionary,
completely reactionary. Exactly. Yeah. Wow. So this is what my, by the end of the year, I hope I
would be finished with the manuscript of my book. That is where my book begins. And that is why I,
if I'm maybe proud for a moment of my research, that is why I think I have something important
new to say that no scholar who is writing at the same time, and particularly the scholars whom
you have interviewed, because in many ways, they are also trying to present a new picture.
And I'm definitely presenting a new picture. And so that's what I'm after. Wow. Okay,
let's keep going, because there's so many good things. I have so many questions. I would like
to move on to the border patrols, if you don't mind, because we're talking about the differences,
and you did a wonderful job explaining that. I was going to ask, is there any other group
of Christians that we didn't mention that might, might be just before we left that,
that are not really popular, aren't really mentioned, but they're there? And the reason I ask, in light
of this, all of these groups you're talking about, are they all used in the canonical text? Because
it seems like there's awareness of literature in the Quran, like pseudopigraphical literature that
I thought that was extinguished. I thought that in the 3400s, they had gone around and
completely destroyed all of this heretical literature. But I'm seeing Jesus turn clay birds
into life. Like, what's going on? Is that literature still around? And what groups of
Christians maybe are reading this? Oh, yeah. No, that, that literally was definitely the around.
You're right, of course, once Christianity was adopted in the Roman Empire, so the late 300s,
and once the great proselytization conversion efforts of the Christian Church
had been completed, and that was in the course of the 400s, the Christian Church, the Catecedonian
Church in Constantinople, was successful in suppressing literature that it considered to be
unorthodox. So whatever they, the patriarch, the emperor decided did not fit into the canon,
was suppressed, and it went underground. But of course, there were lots of Christians in the east
who continued reading them, continued even writing such so-called questionable texts.
There was then also the Judeo-Christians for a while, that is, Jews who nevertheless recognized
Jesus as the Savior, but continued to practice Jewish customs and laws. So all of this went on,
and we should be very much aware that the Orthodox dictates, so to speak, by the emperors
and the patriarch in Constantinople, was by no means successful, and so that is quite understandable.
But let me mention also, since you asked a little earlier about, is there any other Christian group
that is of relevance? Let me mention it, and that is, again, this is new, nobody has really
written about it. We were talking earlier about Justinian and the Justinian plague.
Justinian, as I said, was, well, I exaggerated, it was desperate, but we want to make it a little
lively to bring the Christians together. So he dictated a piece of liturgy which is called
the Thrice Holy, holy, holy, holy, which is sung in the regular liturgy of Scotsida,
where the middle verse was at the behest of the, you can see here again how important the
myophysites were, at the demand, not behest really, I mean, they were really insistent on this.
It was changed, and this middle liturgy was sung holy, holy, who was sacrificed for us.
Now, if you listen to that liturgy, it means God was sacrificed, suffered and was sacrificed on
the cross, because God is the holy, holy, holy, holy God. So the middle verse, therefore, then,
officially in the Calcedonian Church from Justinian onwards, had to be sung that way. So,
just passing, we are not talking about highfaluting, too-nature, and one person,
and what have you, theologies, and this is so unfortunate, because you cannot really
represent it accurately, like your graph showed, or it's not very accurate.
So, I want to bring you down to earth. The people in church, when they went to Mass,
either daily or on Sundays, literally sang that God on earth, so to speak, who was Jesus,
was suffered on the cross and died. That was sung every day. Now, you can see here why the
reaction of the Muslims was so visceral, because of what I call the backlash, because, of course,
in the late 500s, early 600s, when everybody had to sing it that way, including Calcedonians,
we have to be aware that some of the bishops and monks of Jerusalem were vehemently opposed
to the singing of what is called the Trisagion, the holy, holy, holy, with the middle verse.
So, in Jerusalem, there was a furious resistance in the clergy and among monks.
In the 620s, early 30s, Bishop Sophronius is very crucial here, the one who actually
turned the keys of Jerusalem over to Amar, who was the Caliph at the time, conquering it.
So, they were furiously opposed to the singing of the God as divine and suffered
liturgy. So, we have actually a complication here in Jerusalem, and I'm saying, yeah,
that was picked up by the Arabs of southern Syria. So, here we are turning to something we
haven't mentioned yet, and that is the Christians of southern Syria adjacent
north-western Arabia had a capital, Petra, of course, famous for the ruins which one can visit
in Jordan. Petra was probably, cannot be proved without some doubts, but probably was the city
in the vicinity of which, Hamid, if we think that he was the unnamed preacher in the early
600s, where he received the beginning of the Quran, the early revelations. So, he received
then a Petra, not a Mecca. Mecca did probably not even exist. The first time it was ever mentioned
as existing dates to 692. So, this is way later. In an apocalypse, the so-called Edesin
apocalypse that was published at that time at the end of the 600s, when the conquests were
long over, and Islam was beginning to form. So, if we assume that the earliest revelations
came to a preacher, later called Hamid, but unnamed in the early, or in many portions of the
Quran. I shouldn't say early, by the way, because I don't believe in it either, but that's a different
part you can ask me about the later. So, if we assume that an unnamed preacher lived in Petra
or environments, I call the area Madian, or the Romans called it
Palestine Terzia, the third Palestine. Madian is the old biblical description, because the
Midianites, of course, are very important in the Old Testament. In that particular area,
where I think the Quran was revealed, and where the particular Arabic that the Quran represents
was developed. I mean, that's where it originated, probably in the 500s.
Marine Van Putten might have told you about that, although I don't know. I mean, that's one of his
points, although he is not at all in favor of the Madian theory that I mentioned.
Anyway, if the Quran indeed began there, it is very likely that this early preacher, of whom
we have to think that he was highly sophisticated theologically. So, he had read not only the
canonized Gospels, but also the suppressed literature. One basic methodological principle
always, apart from working only with historically verifiable records, is that one should always
think of protagonists being of the highest sophistication. They are never done or uneducated.
So, Muhammad, this nameless preacher in some portions of the Quran, clearly has to be supposed
to be fully familiar, including the Jerusalem patriarchs or bishops who opposed the Tricycle.
So, in other words, in a way, Jerusalem was Nestorian. And that's why I am so interested in
this connection of what the Nestorians had to say about Jesus suffering and dying on the cross,
not God suffering. That's why it is so interesting that this Jerusalem position is exactly the position
that then reappears in the Quran, because the Quran is not entirely clear about whether there
wasn't also a divinity in Jesus. If one carefully reads the particular verse that speaks about the
Jews did not kill Jesus, it does not deny that Jesus was not divine. It merely says
the divine Jesus couldn't be killed, and that's why the Jews were wrong. So, that's a completely
different position. So, that's why it is so important to say, okay, Petra is part of the picture,
and that's where the early revelations began. And we don't even know whether there was any
Meccan connection. It could be that this preacher in the way north, eventually in 622, that's of
course when the rise of Medina begins, that's the famous hijra, that he made a hijra from the north
to Medina, not from Mecca. And that Mecca came into existence only later, perhaps by dissidents
from Medina. But that's a different story, and that's a bit speculative, and I don't want to go into.
This is fascinating. I'm going to keep going, because some of the stuff you're mentioning
is relevant to what we're going to get into, and I'll have more questions, of course, as well.
So, let's move to the border patrols real quick between these two empires, what we call Byzantium,
or Byzantine, and Persian, real quick here, just to give people a visual. And I'm going to probably
butcher the names when we're going to try the Ghassanids. Right in Arabic, it would say
Ghassanids, and the Lakhmids, who were Romanized Arabs and personalized Arabs, and we have an
inscription for these Romanized Arabs from 568 AD in southern Syria. But before I show those
inscriptions, here's a modern day analogy for our viewers so they can understand, and I want them
to see this little post here. This is Arabic and French, the sign. Here is that sign in Lebanon
right now, which is in French and Arabic. As Lebanon was under the French rule, and in Lebanon,
French is their second language. Likewise, I'm going to show you an inscription in
south of Syria from these Romanized Arabs, and this is something that I believe was in
Robert Hoylan's work, just to give people the inscriptions on the wall, if here. But also,
here it is in black and white, so you can actually read what's going on. And you can see on the left
the inscription in Greek, and on the right in Arabic. Can you tell us more about these Romanized
Arabs, the Ghassanids, if I will, when were they formed, how long were they around for,
who was their leader during the time of Muhammad? Yeah, the long centuries of war between the Roman
Empire and the Persians. Of course, it required that both empires had to think about how would they
fortify their borders in order to discourage either side from attacking. And so initially,
the Romans built, of course, the famous Limes, L-I-M-E-S. There is a scholar to debate about how
how much the Romans thought of it as being a defensive bulwark. I don't want to get into
this too specialized. But let's say it was sort of a buffer area where there were lots of forts,
and of course also well-built roads where the Roman soldiers from March and so on.
So that was the initial way of defending themselves against the Persians. The Persians,
because they were usually the attackers before then they were beaten back, they did not build
a huge fortification. They relied right from the start on these so-called Lachmids. And there were
Arabs who were then, of course, Christianized and became the Nestorians about whom we have
been talking before. So they had a capital there, Hera, which is right there in the western border
today of Iraq, where actually the Sasanids encouraged the emergence of a kingdom. And so the Lachmid
kings were quite powerful. And in the course of the 500s, again we are talking here about
Justinian. Justinian was a decisive person there, decisive person there, although
he was not the first one who made that decision. Justinian decided that it was too expensive to
maintain the limits, because I had to have troops in these fortifications, in the watchtowers,
troops had to be stationed there and exchanged, they had to be paid, etc. So he decided there would
be probably much cheaper to turn over the defense similar to what the Persians did with the Lachmids
to the Rasanids. So the Rasanids emerged in the course of the 500s, but they, so when
Syria became Christianized, the Rasanids became Jacobites. Here we are again with the Monophysites.
And so they were a defensive force whom the Romans supported, gave important titles to,
they became what is called phylaurcs. And eventually even in the middle of the 500s,
they became kings as well, or were called that way. And let them fight it out among themselves
before then either the Persians or the Romans would have to interfere with their own troops.
So that is what happened also in the second half of the 500s. And it's extremely important,
this development, because of course it helped the Christianization of the Arabs.
But again, you see, I'm insistent here, it's not just that they became Christian,
it's that they became myophysites. And the Quran is forever attacking the myophysites in it.
So you can see here, this is this backlash phenomenon that I mentioned earlier.
The Quran speaks about what is called in Arabic mushrikum, literally meaning those
who associate God with other beings. This is simply the Arabic term for the myophysites,
because you see, Muhammad was a preacher when he received his revelations. He was
just like the people who went to church and listened to the or sang the trisagion.
He did not write theological treatises. He wrote a homilitic text collection. In other words,
he preached it to the Arabs in probably Petra or in viral Median, as I said a little earlier.
So anyway, they are Northwest Arabia. He preached it to them. And the Rasanids were the ones
who were the mushrikum who associated other beings with Jesus. So the Quran is really a
backlash against the mushrikum, those who add people to God. And that means
Jesus and the Holy Spirit. There is no trinity. That is the strong backlash
position that you find represented in the Quran. Wow. Okay. Okay. So we got the
and the Rasan. It's like it's not a sound you have in the English language, but you pronounce it
way deep like the French would pronounce. They played a role in the rise of Islam,
as you said. Did their military learn skills from the two superpowers, Persia and Rome? I
know this is probably a silly question, but a lot of Islamic biographies, the Arabs, are seen
as kind of the underdogs who were up against these two superpowers. And their victories were
because of God. And like I talked about before the show, I'm looking to not deal with the theology,
but unmask and figure out what actually was on the ground that God was on their side,
but that they did it all by themselves. It's almost like when we read biblical narrative,
where it's like it seems like the Israelites just sometimes even just stood there and God
did the war for them. Hard to believe that this is true, but did they actually join forces? Like
did they have help with them from these other superpowers or potentially from other people
in their wars and conquering and stuff? Oh, yeah. The Romans used primarily foot soldiers.
They had, of course, also their cavalry, but the Rassanids were practically only cavalry.
And so they were a very useful supplement to the Roman army. And that's why when they fought,
they were very proud. In fact, they were so proud that in 581, the Romans even decided,
their Byzantines even decided, well, we have to cut these Rassanids down a notch or two.
And they ended the phyla key. Usually historians interpret this as a major mistake that the
Byzantines committed because it allowed the Lachmids to develop their superiority in the
years after the 580s. Nevertheless, they remained critical, the Rassanids, critical,
all the way up to Heraclius when he began in 610, the War of Liberation from the Persians.
They were enrolled and played a major part in this War of Liberation that Heraclius led.
And in fact, there's even a scholar, you might actually also try to interview him.
Tesei, Thomas of Tesei, T-E-S-E-I is his last name. He's now with a Korean university,
but I think he is, I don't know whether he's Italian based now or still in the United States,
but he's associated with this Korean university. If you google him, I'm sure you can find him.
So Tesei is his last name, T-E-S-E-I, Tomaso Thomas. He has written quite a bit about
this critical role of the Rassanids. He thinks that they were very important for this. Have you
come across this famous verse according to which allegedly, in quotation marks, Muhammad, the
nameless preacher, issued a prophecy shortly before the Hijrah of 622 that the Romans were
victorious now, that is in 628. When I say a prophecy, a prophecy is always issued after
the attacks have happened. Exactly. So he prophesized that initially the
Persians would be successful, but ultimately the Romans would be victorious. This verse,
as I said, allegedly a prophecy, is always taken as meaning that the unnamed preacher,
Muhammad, predicted that eventually the Romans would be victorious. And so therefore,
the implication is, the people in Mecca were sympathetic toward the Romans and not the Persians.
We have not a shred of evidence about that. That is historically undocumented. In fact,
it was probably the other way around. So in other words, it said that eventually
the conquering Arabs would defeat the Byzantines and indeed they did in 636. So the
new reading of the crime, which is not original with me. I mean, it's well known,
but scholars are divided whether they should read it as this prophecy about the Persians being
defeated in the Romans eventually or the other way around. That is what Tizé has researched.
And this is important because in 622 then, when the hijra happened, and then in the subsequent
years until the official date of Muhammad's death in 632, so 10 years later, these were the years,
10 years of gradual conquest by Medina, beginning with the surroundings of Medina,
Mecca perhaps. We are not sure about this. We have not a shred of the proof. The only thing
that the Quran says is that there was an encounter by the people of Medina and the people of Mecca
in the valley of Mecca. That's the only mention that the word Mecca has in the Quran.
And that ultimately, of course, the people of Medina prevail. Anyway, the important point here is
when this gradual expansion of Medina occurred, somewhere around 629, it's very difficult to
determine exactly, a messenger was sent to the Rasannis, telling them, give up your version
of Christianity. Adopt ours, because the message that Muhammad preached was there's only one God
and that Jesus was a prophet. And whether he was killed or not, as the Quran says,
that is unknown. So it was not yet clear at this time, 629, what the situation was. So he sent a
messenger up to these Christian Rasannis, telling them, join us against the Romans. And we together
conquer Rome, because it's a promised land. The Jews have forfeited Jerusalem. The Romans
have conquered it. But now we are coming and we are conquering Jerusalem from the Romans. Help us
be our associates. So that was the functioning, the final function of the Rasannis.
They helped the conquering Medinans in the 630s to conquer Syria.
Wow. This is something that you don't hear every day. Okay. So let's dive a little deeper here,
if you don't mind. Now I'd like to move on to the possibility of the location of Mecca and Medina,
not being in modern-day Saudi Arabia, but somewhere else. And I have some early sources,
which I found in Robert Hoylan seeing Islam, as others saw it, that I'd like to show. The first
is about Mecca. And this is found in the Byzantine era, Chronicles 741. And this one right here,
he came finally to Mecca, the home of Abraham, as they think, which lies between Ur of the Chaldees
and the city of Heron, of course, in the desert. So if I may, where exactly is the location of Mecca,
as described in this Chronicle, and here's a map to give you something to maybe go off of?
Yeah. Do you have an idea? Well, let's see here.
I know you got to get the glasses on. Get my glasses, yeah. The map actually shows
Hera, to which I referred a little earlier. That was the capital of the lahmids. And as I said,
the lahmids were, well, let's be loose here in one's nomenclature, Nestorians. So the ones who
believe in the half-divine half-human nature of Jesus. They did not play any direct part in the whole
conquest. So it's only the Ghassanids, to whom I referred a little earlier, because they participated
in the Medinan army in the 630s in the conquest of Syria from the Romans.
Okay. I just switched maps to maybe give you a better, because the names are there, the Ghassanids
or whatever, and the lahmids. On the left or western side, you see the Ghassanids are the
top left, western part of Saudi Arabia, if you will. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. So back to this
quotation that you showed me in the Chronicle of 741, which is very important, because we have,
for these early years, after the completion of the Arab conquest of Syria, no reliable sources
for the Arabs. We have only Christian sources commenting on the conquering Arabs. And there,
by the way, we are opening also an extremely interesting chapter about which you might want
to ask me later. But this Chronicle that you mentioned, this quote,
shows that the Christians of this period who reported about it, now the Chronicle of 741,
is already a Chronicle of 40 years after the first mentioning of Mecca. I said earlier,
we don't have any proof that Mecca existed during the 600s.
It is mentioned once, but only in the Quran, only in the form of in the valley of Mecca.
So that does not mean that there was a city or a sanctuary. We only can indirectly conclude that
perhaps there was a sanctuary, because the valley of Mecca was the place where the Quran says
that the Medina people met and were about to battle the Mecca people. But God interfered and
withheld the Meccans from attacking, because there were also sympathizers for
Muhammad in Mecca. And therefore, he didn't want to have any blood to be spilled.
That's essentially this particular verse that I'm referring to. That's all we know. So we know
about Mecca then, eventually, through this Edison, Apocalypse 692, and then subsequently,
and this source of 741 clearly shows that Christians knew that there was a Mecca. Now,
the Christians of the 600s who commented on the conquering Arabs after 640 knew nothing about Mecca.
A first inkling that there was something going on there,
boy south, north of Medina, came only in 683 when there was a counter Caliph
who disputed the power with the Umayyads. And he allegedly was in this place in the south,
but it's not named, where there was a sanctuary. So we know that there was a sanctuary in the south,
north of Medina. That's about all. And in Holland, who showed you this particular source,
was a bit late here. 741 is already way beyond the original emergence of Islam.
So that's when we can say, okay, at that time, yes, there was a Mecca, there was a Medina,
there was an Umayyad Caliphate, it was the dominant one in the Middle East, and so on.
And Holland has written quite a good book about it. I'm using it quite a bit, but he
nowhere goes into the details about the Maya physis and historians, etc. So let me let's probe
a little deeper here, because I also have a description of where the Arabs were located
from a Frankish Chronicle written in 650 AD, where exactly is the location of the Saracens
as described in this Chronicle. So let me show you that. This one right here, and it says the
Hagarines, if I'm saying that right, the Hagarines. That's another name, by the way, for the Arabs,
after Hagar, the slave wife of Abraham. I'd like to get into that a little bit too if we have the
time. The Hagarines, the Hagarines, who are also called Saracens, which were also the Arabs,
a circumcised people, which quite interesting as well, that kind of tells you something,
who of old had lived beneath the Caucasus on the shores of the Caspian in a country known as
Arcolia. And I think I figure I just show the map again to give you, is there a way to describe
where that would be on this map, or maybe I go to this map? Where would they, where would it be
describing? Okay, you would have to go into, let's say, the northwestern border of, it says,
actually, if your readers can read it, Albania, you see that right next to the Caspian Sea.
I'm looking now. So it would be between the Black Sea and the Caspian Sea.
Okay, okay. And it says on the coast of the Caspian Sea, Albania. Got it. Okay, that's where
roughly this particular source locates them. That has to do a lot with apocalyptic speculations
at that time. That's again, another chapter, the famous Alexander legend
up there in the, in the Northwest. So yes, there were lots of Christian speculations
in the six and seven hundreds, particularly in the Apocalypse that became quite numerous
in the early 700s. There's a lot of speculation then about where the different places are to
be located. There's of course also the famous early map that allegedly
locates Mecca under the name of Makuraba. Have you come across that? No. Oh, there's also a long
speculations about that. So the so-called Ptolemaic map. So no, but the upshot of all of this is
there's not a shred of evidence about where to locate all of that. Very vague knowledge in the
six hundreds. I'm at the point now also I published or in the process of publishing two articles on
this. Even though the Arabs had completed the conquest of Syria in 640, nobody knew at that time
that these conquering Arabs had a person by the name of Muhammad who was their prophet.
They knew the name Muhammad, but they always described him as a king or a military leader.
Perhaps he was, Shoemaker is making a big point of that, that Muhammad was allegedly alive when
the beginning of the conquest in in Syria occurred. But Shoemaker is in my opinion dead wrong when he
says that there was already a text at that time, perhaps 634 or maybe following years around 640.
The famous or infamous Doctrina Jacobi. Did you mention it? Yeah, we've talked about it. Yes, sir.
That mentions the prophet Muhammad, but there are very good reasons to say the Doctrina Jacobi
does not come or was not composed in these early years in the 630s, but instead probably between
let's say 670, 695 in Carthage, because Carthage during these years 670 to 695 was hanging on to
the city by their fingernails to save it from the conquering Arabs. That's when it was written.
Anti-Judaism was extremely powerful in the course of the 600s. And did any of your interviewers
viewers mention Sabios? Yes. The bishop? Okay. I have great doubts about him. That text of course
comes from the 660s. He mentions Muhammad, but he does not say he was a prophet. That's very important.
If I may just for the sake of the show, just so everybody understands, here it is. For the first
time in Armenian, someone talks about Muhammad and mentions him by name and says a little bit
about what he did. Sabios himself was talking about the events around the year 630,
which was before Muhammad had actually died. Sabios gives a surprisingly accurate account
of Muhammad's background and teachings. Translating from the Armenian. At that time,
a certain man whose name was Muhammad, which is the usual name for Muhammad in the Armenian,
a merchant, as if by the command of God appeared to them as a preacher.
Now, Muhammad gave them laws, namely not to eat carrion, not to drink wine,
not to speak falsehood, and not to engage in fornication.
Is that Thompson? It is. Okay. Yeah. I'm using his translation,
where he had of course colleagues also in the process of making Sabios available.
His translation of the text is extremely important, and I use it all the time,
and I find it very helpful. What Thompson doesn't mention is,
Sabios can be doubted because he is of course the one who says that the Arabs conquered Jerusalem
because they considered it the promised land. And I mentioned it briefly earlier in our discussion.
My feeling is that he wrote, or that he, let's put it in quotation marks, invented
that particular aspect of his description of the rise of Muhammad and the Arabs,
which by the way is embedded also in an apocalyptic thinking. Sabios thought that the world would
come to an end very soon. That in these last times, the Arabs were destined by God to conquer
Jerusalem because the Jews had forfeited it because they killed Jesus. The Romans had lost it because
they lost the war. Heraclitus was defeated. We now, the Arabs, sorry, they, the Arab Sabios,
of course, talks about the Arabs as an Armenian. The Armenians, by the way, were myophysites.
Very important here also to consider in this whole attitude that Sabios took because Sabios was
very anti-Jewish. So in my opinion, he invented this entire story about the promised land,
and one has to be very careful about proving it or making a good case for it,
because actually the Quran is not very clear about why the Arabs conquered Jerusalem or what
they exactly wanted to do with Jerusalem once they had conquered it. Sabios and the Jews,
of course, were of the opinion that the Arabs wanted to rebuild the temple for a third time,
I guess, or whatever. The Arabs knew what they were doing. As I said, they were not only anti-Myophysite,
also anti-Cancedonian, except Jerusalem, which I mentioned is this exception because of the
Trisagion, but they wanted to have something completely new. They wanted to have their own
sanctuary there. And of course, Abdel Malik built the famous Stone of the Rock, which is
one of the most famous sanctuaries that the Muslims possess, and one should not mix it up with a
temple. It was a sanctuary that possibly could have been a pilgrimage center, Gerald Horting,
whom you should also, by the way, interview if you have a chance, H-A-W-T-I-N-G. He has recently
written a very interesting article where he wonders whether the Dome of the Rock wasn't supposed to be
a pilgrimage center competing with Mecca that was barely existing at the end of the 600s.
If you remember, 692 is the earliest date when Mecca was mentioned. So, Horting is also on to
something very interesting in this whole origin of Islam debate. And Sabios, by contrast, even though
the scholarship, of course, of Thompson is extremely important and valuable,
Sabios can be interpreted in quite a few different ways than he was proposing.
Wow, okay. So, that would be a little contrary to Shoemaker's apocalyptic approach saying that
yeah, so you don't think that Muhammad was like an inns day prophet thinking that the end was going
to happen? No, no, no, that is indubitably. But there you are now.
I was thinking that the mission, there's this mission concept that he talks about this,
or at least it's in line with what we've seen with Crone and Patricia Crone and Cook and
right. And then of course, Hoylan had the, he's not so sure, he's very open to being not sure about
anything. But it seemed to me when I read some of this literature where it talks about the Saracens
or the Ishmaelites and the Jews are going to conquer together. It seemed like they had some
type of almost like a, here's our contract. We have a contract to capture Jerusalem. And then
there's some apocalyptic, it sounds like apocalyptic, but it could be what I think Shoemaker thought was
a copy of Joshua's conquest, this idea of going up and conquering Jerusalem again. And it lists
like the 12 tribes of the Ishmaelites. Okay, okay. So you think that's a complete fictional?
Oh, yeah, that's, that's entirely fictional. Okay. Now, Shoemaker, Shoemaker is perfectly
correct by saying that the motivation for the conquest, although we have indicators of that
motivation only from the 634 onwards. So not the early period after the
establishment of Muhammad, of the preacher in Medina. But Shoemaker is perfectly right.
The, at that time in the 630s, the Arabs were driven by the idea that the word would come to an
end soon, because that's after all what the Quran is all about. The word will end soon.
We hear it still today. Like the Hadith says, I did this, you know, see the gap between my
finger. That's how, right, exactly. And, but of course, on the other hand, the Quran,
our name preacher is very carefully never says it will happen tomorrow. It will happen very soon.
Now, there you, you are entering some something again, new, that is very important to take in.
And that actually is something that Shoemaker, in my opinion, didn't consider sufficiently. And that is,
the Quran up to 622 is actually a Quran that preaches, yes, the end of the world,
and is also opposed, of course, to the Mushrikun, those
associators who think that next to God, that was also a divine Jesus.
So that means different versions of Christianity. Exactly.
So that the, the entire early period prior to 622 was a peaceful period. So the preaching
of the end of the world was be patient. Let me help the unnamed preacher. Let me help to
spread the message because, yes, if the world ends tomorrow, you don't want to sin anymore.
You want to repent. You want to ask God for forgiveness. You want to enter the kingdom of
God when the eschaton, the end comes. And that, of course, will be accompanied by horrible events.
And we all know what these various earthquakes and splitting of the moon and whatever else
there is. So Shoemaker is perfectly all right. That's the, what one calls eschatology.
But what Shoemaker is not entirely clear. It was only in 622 that the peaceful preaching, okay,
you cannot hit people over the head and force them to believe that the world will end tomorrow.
All you can do is preach it peacefully and hope that the people to whom you preach it
will be persuaded by what you are doing. And that is actually the great mass of verses in the Qur'an.
The, only in 622 when Muhammad established himself in Medina, and that we know, 622 is a firm date.
It's externally verifiable. Again, the Nestorians are the ones who deliver the documentation for us,
tourists for this. Only then Jihad was preached. And this is extremely important.
There's a German scholar who made his name in analyzing the great prophets of the Old Testament,
Carl Friedrich Paulman, P-O-H-M-A-N-N, who just about two, three years ago
wrote a very important book by saying the Qur'an actually consists of two
major elements. The peaceful preaching, which makes up the great mass of the, of the verses.
And then in 622, the preaching of holy war, which is mostly concentrated in Surahs eight and nine.
And that, that was a, a fateful event in the hold on just a moment.
You're fine. Let me double check something that my wife just gave me. Listen, my, I've got a wife as well.
Okay. She gave me some important information. Okay. So, Poonman therefore then said,
we can, we have to presuppose that in the Qur'an that was formed essentially between the years
or up to the years, let's say the 60s, 70s or whatever, that was the period when,
when the composition of the Qur'an took place. So after the conquest, when nobody knew anything
about the Arabs, that's the time when the Qur'an came together. That during that time,
there was a fierce struggle between the so-called peace party and the so-called jihad party.
And we can identify verses in the Qur'an where the two directly clashed. There is one, let me get
my glasses and want to be sure that everybody knows about this. It's a Surah 48 verse four and verse
74. If you read these two verses, you have a dear proof of the peace party verse four in
Surah 48 clashing with the end of the same Surah 48 74 where the exact opposite is being said.
What is being said in these two verses? The first one is God will be pleased if you continue preaching
essentially. The last verse means or close to the end, 74 means God will only be pleased,
you will be a good Muslim only if you go on jihad. So there is a direct clash in the Qur'an.
Pullman makes the point there was a peace party, a jihad party, and they were battling it out during
the years roughly six twenties, thirties, forties, fifties until we have the first signs that there
is a Qur'an information probably in the six eighties. Now back to Schumacher. Schumacher
considers only the jihad party. He does not consider the peace party in this whole,
in these whole events. And we should not presuppose that the peace party disappeared
just because there was a jihad. And that's the important consideration that one needs to have
when one deals with the alleged promise of Jerusalem to the conquering Arabs, replacing
the Jews and the Byzantines. Real quick, when you mentioned the final compilation, if we will,
of the Qur'an, what do you do with the palimpsest, the lower lower texts? How do you how do you
address dating these? And, you know, I guess you would disagree with some of the others
on this. No, no, you're you're well informed, by the way. Thank you for asking me about that.
That is, of course, the period then the six eighties, which I mentioned, when now we know it
through carbon dating, although carbon dating always has this the spread of years, you can never
really decide like 50 plus or minus or something. Exactly. So let's say around the six eighties.
Yeah, there is a as an upper text and a lower text. But I don't think that that the the discovery of
these two texts has added terribly much. Yes, there are two versions. And there's eventually,
of course, also an accepted version. But the discarded version, so to speak, in the palimpsest
is not that different. Right. And so we have to say that probably much of the Quran was in
existence at around that time, the six eighties. Okay, let's move on to something else that I
got a couple more questions for you, if you don't mind. We have a modern day map of Iraq,
and we could see that there's a Yathrib there as well. If we add up everything, do you think the
original locations of Mecca Medina are up in the north in the region of Iraq? Here is that map,
just to kind of show you probably won't be able to see the text. Really small print here. But
it is very north. It's like up there toward Iraq. Did you want to make a quick comment on that? Do you
think that? No, they're often repetitions of particular names that appear in various places.
So that is very unlikely. So we can be, I think the Quran is pretty clear here. And also the early
sources, because the Quran's Christian sources, because we don't have the Arab sources from the
600s. Medina is very clear. It's mentioned, Yathrib, sorry. Medina is of course the Islamic name for
the same city, the city of the prophet, Medina and Nabi. So Yathrib is an old Oasis. We have
reports about Yathrib in existence already, early Persian empire, etc. So there's no doubt about
that. So Medina is well established and that it emerged as the place of Jihad preaching. You see,
that's where we only get hold of this unnamed preacher calling himself four times then in the
in the context of Jihad. The name Muhammad appears only in these verses of Surahs 8 and 9 that deal
with Jihad. So the Quran is really split here in the sense. One wishes one could divide the Quran
into the peaceful Quran and the Jihad Quran and say, okay, the true Quran is the peaceful Quran,
the one that preaches and does not call for holy war. So Medina is well established and we don't
even though Yathrib, of course, could appear also in other places, that's very unlikely that we
should take that seriously. But also the point now concerning Mecca, since Mecca was not known to
have been in existence. Mecca is of course, the Quran is the beginning of this. Houting is very
much of the opinion that this whole transfer of what Jerusalem is or was for the Jews to Mecca.
So in other words, it's a pilgrimage place. One circumambulates the sanctuary in Mecca.
One runs between Safar and Marwah back and forth, because one repeats or commemorates
Hagar's search for water for the young Mournish and so on. That is, of course, a conscious transfer
of everything that once took place in Jerusalem to Mecca. And that is across the Islam that we
know today. That Islam, however, is not the Umayyad Islam of the 600s and 700s. It's Islam of 750
and the Abbasids who then made Mecca the center of Islam. And they are the two creators of the
Islam that we speak about today. So at that time, Jihad was long over. Right. Okay, this is interesting.
Some people say that Muhammad is a title like Caesar is to the Roman emperors and that
Muhammad is not his real name. Muhammad means the praise one, as you said, and his real name
is shown in this hadith. So I'm going to pop up this hadith. I'm going to try and read this small,
fine print. This is probably not the best version of it. Let me get the highlighted version here
real quick. Let me do this. Sorry, forgive me for one second while I get this actual version
that has the highlight because I want people to be able to see what I'm doing here. Okay, I got this
and I am about to pop it up here now. I actually went and actually added the highlighted part to
make it visible for anybody who's watching this podcast to be able to see. It seems pretty obvious
to me there's something going on here. Okay, so I'm just going to read the lower part here and I
might put your names here. Abu Sufyan then added when Heraclis had finished his speech and had read
the letter. There was a great hue and the Ori in the royal court. So we were turned out of the court.
I told my companions that the question of Ibn Abi Qashba, the prophet Qamsha, the prophet Muhammad
has become so prominent that even the king, Bani al-Ausfar, Byzantine, is afraid of him and this
is in a hadith. So is that another name for the prophet Muhammad? Yeah, the red-skinned people,
the Bani al-Ausfar. Okay, now that is the so-called Islamic tradition. The Islamic tradition began
probably in the 670s, 80s. Again, we are talking here about decisive events at the end of the
600s where we then have sources that we can be talking seriously about. So at that time,
so we are talking there now about a generation of people after Muhammad who are maybe the
grandchildren of the people who lived at the same time and were his companions of Muhammad
or maybe the great-grandchildren. Now, we cannot presume that those grandchildren, great-grandchildren
remembered anything accurately, even if they were serious and did not want to invent. Now,
we have to bear in mind, of course, there was great competition among the people who
when they were conquering to be the most glorious, the most victorious, the most successful,
what have you. And so this so-called Islamic tradition that came into being
is extremely unreliable. We cannot determine what is genuine and what is not, what is invented
and what might be serious. Yes, there are esteemed colleagues in the field who say, well,
in cases where the traditions contradict each other and where later traditionists went with,
let's say, one version rejected the other, that the rejected versions is perhaps closer to the truth
to a degree that is debatable. But overall, the Islamic tradition is extremely unreliable. And
this whole business about Abu Qabsh is merely one example. There are other names as well that
were allegedly given to this unnamed preacher. But we have to bear in mind that the Qur'an,
you see, this is one of the very attractive parts of the Qur'an. The Qur'an deliberately
is vague about anything historical. So when I mentioned a little earlier this business about
Petra being the place where the first revelations happened, the Qur'an uses the word um al-qara,
which literally means mother of the villages or mother of the towns. Now,
officially the Islamic tradition later than Islamic theologians said, oh, you know, that's a clear
reference to Mecca. And so ever since still in modern scholarship, it's believed that that means,
that particular verse in the Qur'an means Mecca. Well, Petra was conquered by the Rome,
when the Romans conquered and defeated, I mean, the conquests here, the conquered, of course,
also Petra. And shortly after that, in the 114, I believe, 114 of the Islamic no, no,
you're talking about 114 AD. Okay, because that's AD calendars here. At that time, so this was after
the Romans conquered, of course, Palestine. This is before 117, 130 or whatever. This is
in between the wars that are happening in Jerusalem. It was customary for the Roman
emperors to give elevated titles to some of the cities that had been conquered in the Roman Empire.
So Petra received the title of metropolis. Well, if you translate metropolis, it means martyr
polis, polis, mother of the cities. And that's exactly what the Qur'an says. In technical terms,
it's a cult, as we say. So in other words, the unnamed preacher took the name of Petra, mother
of the cities, translated into Arabic. And that's what Petra is. There is another indication that
actually, we are not wrong. It's not a misinterpretation. Because in other verses, there appears the word
Rakeem. I don't know whether anybody has mentioned that to you. I don't know about it.
R-A-Q-I-M. It's allegedly the name of the dog at the entrance of the company, the so-called Seven
Sleepers, the Church of Ephesus. I know about this, yes. There's got to be a genetic,
mimetic connection between the Qur'an and the earlier Christian tradition.
So the, in quotation marks, real cave is in Ephesus. So there we are, way north in Anatolia.
The indications of the Qur'an, as it exists,
wanted to move the Seven Sleeper story to, or wanted to be known. It was probably already
the case that this particular cave was actually in Petra, or near Petra. And so Rakeem is actually
the name for Petra in Aramaic. So you have an indication here, because Rakeem is mentioned
in the Qur'an, in conjunction with the cave in which the Seven Sleepers were,
as part of the inscription of the names of the people who were in the cave. And unfortunately,
they are Islamic scholars, Griffith, for example, who believe that this inscription is scholarly,
but de facto Rakeem was a well-known ancient name for Petra. So there you have another element
that indicates that we are talking about the, the so-called peaceful Qur'an being revealed in
what I call Magyam, or Palestina Terzia, until in 622 the preacher turned up in Medina,
and ultimately then, in conjunction with the beginning Coquers, took on the name Hamid,
the praised one. So that would be the story. Okay, last thing here, and then I just have
a couple questions as I let you go here. Some people suggest, even Abi or Kasha, the word
is another form of the individual in Tabari, volume five. And if I may show that here,
I'm going to, the first words there is obviously it's written in, it seems a different language,
in particular, the way it's pronouncing this. But as governor overall, Heera, and the other
former territories of Al-Numan, or Numan. Yeah. So I didn't know if you thought they were the same
person, or that was okay. A very different one. Kisra is of course the name for Khosrow, the second.
Nau-Aman was the last lah-meed king. And that's an interesting little detail.
The, when the Romans cut down the Rasanids and made them lower level defenders, so to speak,
of the Byzantine Empire, although not so low that they wouldn't be still
faithful and help in, help Heraclius in the reconquers. Okay. So when Khosrow saw that the
Romans had done that to the Rasanids, he decided, well, I don't need the lah-meeds either, as kings
say on the, on the, on my western border. They are pretentious anyway with the title king. So
let me get rid of these guys as well. So he poisoned, or otherwise killed, we don't know exactly.
Nau-Aman, who's mentioned in what you showed me, that particular passage in Talati. And that happened
in 602. The lah-meeds were outraged about this and went, and immediately rose militarily against
Khosrow. Took quite a while for Khosrow to be, until the Altar middle was able to defeat them.
And it was only then, in 610, so eight years later, that he was quite successful. But then
there was yet another Arab revolt. And in 610, they inflicted a defeat on, on, on the Persians,
on the Sasanids. That particular defeat is reported only in Tabari. So Islamic tradition,
we are not absolutely sure. Tabari has to be read with extreme caution. So we don't know whether
this uprising, really, of this victory over, by the Arabs over the Persians really happened. But
Tabari, and then also a Christian source actually, the Chronicle of Seirent, say this 610 was the
beginning of the preaching career of the preacher in Mecca. Sorry, in Medina. So you have an interesting
connection there between the Persians, the Sasanids, and the lah-meeds, and so on, in the early 600s.
And the alleged beginning preaching career of this unnamed preacher in 610 allegedly in Mecca.
But we don't know because we have proof of anything happening down there in Mecca. But you
know, only in 622 when the Arab kingdom emerged. All right. So let's recap for a second. Okay.
There's no more images. There's just, just recapping. Okay. What we, what we see is Christianity in
its various forms. The wrestling point is on Jesus. I wish I had all these images I've used in
Robert Hoylan episodes to pop up to get your thoughts on. And I've done this with Shoemaker.
And I've done it with Michael Penn. And I, I mean, I really delete all of this stuff when I'm done.
And then I, you know, redo something for other scholars to get your thoughts. But what I understand
is this, you know, when I wrestle in my head, I've heard theories that people try to say, well,
there was a version of Judaism or a Jewish Christianity that escaped when all that happened,
kind of like what we see with the, the Ibnites, et cetera. Right. And they survived all the way
through history all the way down to seventh century. And I'm thinking to myself, that's a little tough
to accept all the academics I talk to say, no, no, no, no, that's not, that's not the case. Most
academics deny that outright. There's no Jewish Christianity that survives for seven centuries
down in. But I always asked myself, you know, the Ishmaelites, those who are from Hagar or
Hagarism, as you know, Crohn talks about, but the Hagar's and the Jews together are like uniting
under certain fronts. But Jesus is in the picture. And by this time, Jews don't seem, from what I
understand historically, big fans of Jesus. In fact, he's blamed all throughout the Talmud for why
the temple's destroyed. I mean, at least in certain locations, depends on the rabbi. So I thought,
why is Islam obsessed with having Jesus in the picture? I can't see how a Jew practicing Judaism
would even venerate the guy or even bring him in. So it makes better entrance if I were to try and
find a causality that it was some form of Christianity. And there's even Fred Donner, I emailed him to
try and get ahold of him. I haven't got a response yet. He has this hypothesis, there's multiple
monotheistic groups that are probably under one umbrella or something. What do you think of that?
What do you think of some of this stuff? Horlitt is very skeptical. And in fact, most of the people
in the field, Donner developed a thesis in 1994, actually, already, which is actually built on,
are you familiar with the Yehuda naval, who wrote an important study? I have not. Okay,
he's dead now, so you cannot interview. But Donner developed the thesis, according to which
these years of 640, roughly, let's say, or 638, the end of the Arab conquest to, well, we were
then talking about the end of the 600s, which is this big black hole, so to speak, where we don't
have any Arab sources, and where we have to rely on the Christian sources. Donner's argument there
is precisely because they are no Arab sources, because the Islamic tradition is so doubtful.
And he's willing to admit that now. In an earlier phase of his career, he actually worked
almost entirely with Islamic traditions. So he argued now that these 50 years roughly,
this half century that is the black hole, was the period of an ecumenic Arab conquering society.
So in other words, there were these Arab conquerors, but they did not think anything about
myophysites or historians or Jews. They simply let all of these communities practice their religion
freely. They enrolled them even, no questions asked, in their army and administration.
All they required was to recognize the caliph and to subscribe to the idea of the unity of God,
the oneness of God. Which, of course, then ultimately was the central thesis in the Quran.
But there is no proof for it. We don't know. There is no source. Yes, the conquering Arabs
made freely use of Christians and Jews who wanted to participate in the administration,
or in the case of Christians, the Hassanids in the army. And that doesn't prove anything
about what they believed or didn't believe. And in fact, you see there are, in my opinion,
there are very important details which one can prove. I'm thinking of three examples that I just
demonstrated stand against this idea of ecumenicism, I guess one would have to call it.
Not at all. There were fierce confessional clashes during this time.
So, the Umayyads who eventually emerged in the mid-600s participated lustily in all of these
discussions about who Jesus was, was he divine, was he not, was he put on the cross or not. So,
everybody at that time was sort of vaguely of the opinion that the Arabs were some sort of
Christians. John of Damascus in the early part of the 700s was still of the opinion that they
were Christians but heretical. So, that was sort of the gist of it in the 600s. And Donna, I don't
think, did very well. And actually this thesis has not gotten very far. Schumacher is a great
supporter of the thesis of the ecumenic form. But he is very concerned to make this whole Arab
conquest a scatological end time empire, so to speak, sound like it is a logical evolution of
Jihad, which is stuck for my opinion. Yeah, so rather than it being like the way it seemed was,
and I'm painting it in my head, that they were united. They were united at first,
they got along, everybody's under the umbrella. We're going to go conquer Jerusalem against these
what we call Orthodox Christians, but they have a Trinitarian. There's all sorts of stuff going
on and they're like, no, we're going together. And there is some strange things that I thought
were interesting. Maybe you interpret the data differently is like, there are tombs facing
Jerusalem. There are, from what I understand, even the prayer was facing Jerusalem initially,
and that changed later. This is this idea that, and this gets into that question I asked them.
If you don't mind addressing some of these facing Jerusalem ideas, but also
just one caveat I want to add to that is, the idea is that they're getting along,
they're facing Jerusalem, they have a mission together, and then something happens in this
community where now they have friction so the Islamic narrative has Muhammad die in 632. And
I've actually had Muslims engage and go, why would you say 632? Why would you say later
than 632? Are Islamic sources say he died in 632? And I'm like, well, should we trust those or not?
And the question is, are there Christian sources that seem to say he was alive
during the conquest of Jerusalem? Was Muhammad alive? This has been like a recent discussion
I've had on some of the episodes. There's like 11 or 12 sources, some of them are probably later,
like you say, but is this, they were united under the front and even Muhammad was going to
lead them as this apocalyptic figure thinking, we're going to rebuild and this is going to like
bring the empire idea as Shoemaker talks about, that's going to cause the greatest empire and
God's going to come down from heaven and it's going to establish heaven on earth and the whole
nine. That's what I had in mind when I was interviewing them, but you make me want to
get a whole new canvas and like get a brush and like repaint it starting from theological
disputes within Christian communities. I don't know, there's so many questions I have, it's just
where do we go? Okay, so since we are coming to the end of our discussion now,
the whole question of the direction of prayer hangs together of course with the whole idea
is make out the place where the center of it all is or is Jerusalem this place?
And that was a debate that took place in the 600s and it was culminated actually then
in the period between 685 and 705 which is a period of Abdel Malik, the famous caliph,
and it is under this caliph where we have the first inklings really of Islam,
the famous inscriptions in the dome of the rock. So yes, controversy is about
the center or is Jerusalem the center and that was carried out then in the course of the 700s.
In fact, you see it was even unsettled in 750 and that's the main reason why the Umayyads were
overthrown because the party that emerged at that time, the revolution in Iraq and Iran
and which brought the Abbasids to power was a revolution to make Mecca the center
and the whole negativity that the Abbasids then subsequently developed towards the Umayyads
and then that's why there is now the scholarship on the Umayyads to rehabilitate them so to speak.
Holland is a great promoter of this idea. All of this has to do with these fights
in the emerging Islamic tradition, the emerging Islam over the proper direction of prayer,
the proper way of performing all of these rituals. We didn't touch for example on the
parallel and competitive pilgrimage with Mecca. That's the pilgrimage to Arafat and Mina
which is these are places outside and that's where the famous throwing of pebbles against
the devil occurs about which I'm sure you are familiar. I've heard of it. So these are all
elements that belong into this long struggle which then evolved once Abdel Malik was beginning
to create the institutions that we call okay that's Islam then in around 700.
Man, I can't tell you how much I want you to have. I definitely want you to come back Dr.
Ben Sievers. I really enjoyed this and for those who don't know, be sure, please go check out the
video. You want to hear the lecture he gives. This is at BYU Kennedy Center. Really, really
interesting just getting into this. I like your approach. It's very hands-on and it kind of puts
the focus on what was really going on at the moment. It's not this satellite view guessing game of
are these Ebe and I Christians who you know like no this is like what's going on on the ground at
the time and please go check out his academia.edu website. If there were any final words you'd
like to tell our audience before we go because I want you to come back. I don't want to burn this
fridge. Okay, okay. What I want to say is keep reading the Quran, keep believing in the Quran
but become aware that Jihad in the Quran is a relatively minor segment mostly in the beginning
of the Quran and not accidentally by the way in Suhras 8 and 9 but the rest is peaceful preaching
and it's not conquest and so when it became conquest it was a conquest to make Islam
superior among all other religions. That's what the Quran says explicitly. So it's not the Arabs
who should be victorious but it's the faith that should be superior to the others and it's also not
proselytizing because if you conquer you cannot proselytize easily. You subject people, you don't
preach to them but the most of the Quran is actually preaching peacefully prior to 622
and I assume it began already in the early 600s or thereabouts in as I said Madiano,
Palestinian, Tertia so way north, northwest, that's what perhaps Muslims who are open to
rethinking their faith should think about. So I'm not attacking the Quran at all. It is a very
important scripture but I read it for reading about what is it, what I should do with my life
when I have to think tomorrow is the end of it. We are in a political situation by the way
where the world can end and where we have to think about a tactical nuclear bomb exploding
over Warsaw perhaps and nuclear stuff raining over all of Europe. We don't know. The end of
the world is not something that we can easily dismiss as a thing that will not happen. So that's
what the Quran is really about. We should take it seriously and that is not something that
we should poopoo. Well thank you so much. I really appreciate your time, your information
and never forget ladies and gentlemen, we are myth-fishing.
