the purpose of the myths. Have you ever asked yourself what the meaning for the myths are?
I mean, we argue over, are these literal history? Did these things really happen? All those things,
according to this guest, don't really matter. It's not really the point. It's more esoteric.
It's more about inside or the internal person, the man. These stories that we find patterns,
you're going to find something interesting here in the show. And I like to follow my guest.
So if you've watched MythVision, understand that I am like Bruce Lee with my philosophy.
Be like Watcher. I like to follow my guest in a lot of ways to try to understand them.
And what Dave Matheson does in this show is really interesting. He compares other deities to the
Jesus story and he does an esoteric explanation on what these stories he believe means. And what
are the star myths really for? I mean, we can find all the intellectual stuff and find fascinating
things and get interested in those, but he says they have an actual purpose. To us, here's humans.
Let me know what you think. Hit that subscribe button. Don't forget to like this thing
and show us some love in the comments. Tell us what you think of the show.
We are MythVision. Your host, Derek Lambert. Welcome to the show. I have Dave Matheson with us.
How are you doing, my brother? I'm really good, Derek. Thanks for having me on.
I'm super excited since the last time that we did this, you showed us heavenly bodies
and took us through the Genesis narrative as well as parallel to other ancient myths that
I find beauty in. I mean, too often we can poke fun at fundamentalism. It's really easy to do that.
And it's easy to kind of throw the baby out with the bathwater when we're looking at these
ancestral stories, these ancient myths. And of all people, I love what you do because you take
out the whole fundamentalist picture and you agree with the atheist. You agree with the skeptics.
You agree with everyone and go, hey, that's a no-no. But what it's really saying is this. And that,
I have to applaud you because it brings beauty to something that I was just on the phone with
someone else real quick. I just figured I'd mention fundamentalists believe literal stuff.
They look at stuff like Yahweh sent two bears to kill 42 kids for calling Elijah bald.
That's absurd and insane if you think that's literal. However, if you see there's something
else going on, you kind of look at the narrative understanding this is celestial nature like we
do with Samson on our podcast that we recently had with Dr. Bob, Dr. Robert M. Price says Samson
is the sun. And you guys, you just got to pay attention because I'm going to be the apprentice
here. And Dave's going to take us through the meaning behind this, the secrets to this whole
thing and what it means. What's the purpose? Is this to be mocked and scoffed? Or is this
something that we all as humans are trying to go towards? So with that, I'll let you take us off
and go into your books and all the good stuff, brother. Yeah. Thanks for the intro, Derek. And
I wouldn't say that I necessarily agree with the atheists or the, anybody's probably, you know,
I don't know that two individuals on this planet agree with one another on 100% on anything. So,
but you'll never hear me say anything bad about the ancient scriptures. Actually, I believe the
ancient scriptures are full of truth and beauty, all the ancient scriptures and ancient traditions
of the world. And I believe that, you know, if somebody is trying to take them literally,
it's probably because they are looking for something that they need. And they're finding
truth and beauty in those scriptures. They're, they have profound lessons for us that are very
positive. So when we talk about astrophiology, you know, there's a lot of people who talk about it.
And I don't, you spend a lot of time actually reading other contemporary people who are
researching as much because I'm pretty busy writing things and researching things that I read a lot
of ancient stuff mostly. But I will say that some people will come at it from almost an
entirely negative point of view. Well, this is all to enslave you to the planet Saturn and
oppress people. And actually, I can demonstrate, I think pretty conclusively that the ancient myths
have a positive intent. Can they be twisted? Obviously. Have they been twisted? Obviously.
Can they be used to oppress and traumatize and enslave people? Obviously. Is that their original
purpose? No, it's not. And I can show that it's not. But so I will say that, you know, the I'm not
the first person to see a connection between the myths and the stars and heavenly cycles.
There's been people like you mentioned, Robert Taylor, just before we started, he was born in
the 1700s was speaking in the 1800s. And he did a fantastic connection between the stars and the
biblical passages. And there are people going all the way back to the ancient times, even Plato
in some of his writings hints at an understanding and awareness of this connection. So it has been
understood or at least perceived in, you know, to one degree or another for thousands of years.
But I will say that, you know, the the style, if you will, of Astro theology, I prefer the term
star myths, because Astro theology actually gets used by people who are talking about
the theological implications of if we find extraterrestrials, which is something totally
different than seeing the fact that the ancient scriptures of the world, including the Bible,
are based entirely on the stars and heavenly cycles or have their foundation in this in the
metaphors that are connected to the stars and heavenly cycles. That's what I'm talking about.
The word Astro theology, sometimes is used for some other things. And also the word theology
tends towards kind of, you know, Christian literalist theology, there's different theologies,
there's theologies of all different religions. But I prefer that that's why I prefer the term
star myths or even Astro mythology is probably better than Astro theology. But what I was going
to say is about my style or approach is it's kind of like a martial art in that you don't want to,
you want to be careful when you pick a style of martial art or a school of martial art to follow.
And I don't run around putting down, like I said, anybody else, I think everybody who's searching
for truth should be encouraged and applauded and checked out, you know, and everyone should use
their critical thinking to examine what people are saying, use your critical thinking when you
examine what I'm saying, use your critical thinking when you walk into a martial art school and ask
yourself, does this, you know, is this really have an application that I can actually use it? Does
it actually benefit me? Because you can get into a lot of trouble if you learn something and you
think you know, and then you can get into a bad situation where your martial art doesn't really
apply to reality. So in terms of Astro theology, I think the application to our lives is really
important. And sometimes what I call kind of shallow Astro theology is almost like, oh, yeah,
it's all based on the sun. And it's just kind of like, okay, so throw it out, don't, you know,
gives no meaning, right, right. It's almost entirely negative. Right. It's like, okay, well,
now I don't have to pay attention to the Bible or anything else, because I know it's all just a
bunch of this and that it doesn't actually show you, it's actually got a very profound and positive
potential application for your life. And it also that also kind of tends to externalize it. Oh,
it's all about the sun. Oh, they were all just hiding a bunch of, you know, this was like ancient
astronomers who had to put their science into stories. And it's just about, you know, the rotations
and cycles of Venus, Mercury, Saturn, the sun, the moon. How does that help your life at all? It
doesn't help your life at all. And actually, it keeps you looking outward. And these stories are
actually about us, about internal. So anyway, that just by way of not to refute your introduction,
I like your introduction, but I just want to be a little bit careful. And let me just talk a little
bit about how I got into this. I'll throw up some slides. If you're ready, or we can, we can ask
questions and keep keep bantering a little bit. I want to make sure everybody who's watching this
is prepared. Because this is always fun. I really enjoy this. And, you know, I agree with the martial
arts stuff too. You know, my dad, he was a close quarter combat trainer and special forces. And
he did jujitsu. And he was also a kickboxer back in the day. I did wrestling and jujitsu and some
taught us some things like that. And I guess the best thing I could put to all this is,
I would avoid at all costs any of those type of martial arts that you don't have to touch your
opponent, and they're going to fall to the ground. That's some some of the stuff I think,
you know, people use to attack the the Bible stories and like the book itself is the handlers
of it do these crazy things with it. And and here we are today just trying to say, look, let's let's
be real humans. We're not saying abracadabra hocus pocus, we're getting more down into more esoteric,
internalizing understandings of things that are real in the world around us,
that not only are real around us, but that we experience. And to throw it all out would be,
I think would do harm to history, because this is not only mythology, it's history,
and it's it's mankind. So I'm ready if you guys are ready. Let's do it.
All right. Great. Okay, I'm going to share my screen and then I'll put up some visual,
because a lot of this is much easier to understand if you see some visual,
especially when we start talking about connections to the stars and things like that. So
let's share screens. Let me just show. So these are the books so far, and I'm just
throwing them up there by way of talking a little bit about my journey to coming towards this. So
I took the Bible literally for about 20 years. You mentioned that your dad was a special forces
trainer. I know that you're at Fort Bragg. I was at Fort Bragg as a young lieutenant,
starting in, I guess it was January 92, I got there. But thank you for your service.
Well, I am. I mean, I'm just, you know, I'm obviously son of somebody.
I feel weird when someone says that. But yeah, let's not get off onto politics and what we're
using. I don't I'm a political on this show, brother. I don't I don't get into that.
Yeah. No, I think actually a lot of, you know, I met wonderful people in the army,
fantastic brothers that I'm great friends with. I think that a lot of the
positive reasons why people are going in are being used for negative reasons by
the people who are turning that weapon in different directions right now.
I don't know. I don't have any idea why we've been in Afghanistan for 20 years. I mean,
I've got some ideas, but I don't think they're what money power. Yeah, I don't think they're,
I don't think they're supporting defend the constitution of the United States
reason. So, but sorry to get off on the sidetrack. But what I was going to say is basically from
about the age, you know, I was brought up in a Christian upbringing, but not really super
heavy duty or strict, you know, we would go to church sometimes and, you know, on and off.
But I did get very into literalist Christianity as an officer in the army. There's a whole topic
we could talk about there too. But so I was a literalist Christian reading the Bible very, very,
um, you know, very, very conscientiously. In fact, at one point I got to the, I got,
I came to kind of a sabbatarian belief where on Sunday you don't read anything else except for
either the scriptures or some pastor commenting on the scriptures, even when I was going to grad
school, where I had a whole lot of reading and homework and essays and things to write.
On Sundays it was shut down all of that and just go to church and read the Bible. So
when I wrote my first book, um, which was the Mathis and Corollary starting on the bottom left
there, and that was published in 2011, I was exploring the connections between the myths
and the stars, but I was actually still coming from a literalist perspective.
And I was talking about there are signs all around the world that this planet has been through
at least one, probably many major cataclysms, including flood type events. And so that first
book is exploring connections between the myths and the stars, but also a lot of the geology,
which ties into this story. But I just want to say that that book was written, I was still
a literalist Christian and seeing these connections between the myths and the stars was really
fascinating to me, but I would, I was very resistant to the idea that the stories in the
Bible might be based on that same system of celestial metaphor. Well, the problem is I knew
the Bible really, really well. And I also happened to know the stars pretty well. I grew up looking
at the books of H. A. Ray and going out to look at the stars with my dad. And we talked about this
a little bit on the last time that we talked how important H. A. Ray's outlines are for actually
finding the constellations. Well, anyway, if you know the stars really well, and you're,
and you start looking for connections between the myths and the stars, and then you start seeing
some of the connections between the Bible stories and the stars, that's like a thread that if you
pull on it, that whole sweater will come apart of believing that it's literal. Or it's like, I like
to use the Lord of the Rings metaphor sometimes. It's like Gandalf says about the dwarves at Moria,
or the dwarves at Moria. They dug too deep. If you dig too deep, you might wake up something
that you didn't expect to find. Well, so in between my first book and my second book, I started to,
and it was actually the Samson story you mentioned before, I think we started
recording that you were just talking about the Samson story. And it was really, the Samson story
was one of the first ones that made me start to scratch my head based on some explication of the
myths in a book called Hamlet's Mill, which was published in 1969. In Hamlet's Mill, they talk
about the Samson story and they say, you know, they call it actually a grand tissue of absurdities,
which I kind of took offense to. I was like, come on guys, I really like what you're talking
about the connection between the myths and the stars, but let's not go too far here. Let's not
say that the Bible is that Samson was in a literal person. Well, so they talk about when he reaches
out to grasp the jawbone of the ass, okay, what constellation was that? And they named some
stars. And I said, wow, that actually makes a lot of sense. And then the next thing was in the
appendixes of this big long book, it's like God almost as many appendixes as it's got the main
body of the book, appendices. There's a passage on the Revelation nine, the key to the bottomless
pit opening up the abyss and smoke coming up from the bottomless pit and the scorpion creatures
that come out and guard the, you know, the abyss there. And they have long hair and they have
stingers like scorpions, but they have bodies like horses and they have golden crowns. All these
are celestial references. My mind and drive on. Well, anyway, in between my first book and my
second book, which came out in 2014, The Undying Stars, you can see on your screen there on the
bottom. I went through a whole, I had to wrestle with the evidence and eventually the evidence
won. And so by the time I wrote The Undying Stars, I had accepted the fact that the Bible was based
on celestial metaphor. So then I had to figure out what to do with that knowledge. Okay, well,
why would that be? You know, my whole world just got turned upside down. Now, how do I
figure out what's the meaning of this? So The Undying Stars, I was starting to grasp,
try and, try and understand. And I've learned a lot since then, obviously, that was 2014 now,
six years ago. But anyway, then I thought, okay, now I'm next, for my next book, I'm going to write
a book showing connections between the stars and the myths all over the world. And I'll call it
Star Myths of the World. And it'll just be, I thought it was going to be one volume. Well,
it turns out there's no way you can do that in one volume. In fact, really, you could do just
the book of Genesis and do 10 volumes on the connections between the stars and the myths and
stories in Genesis. So anyway, in 2015, I published Star Myths of the World volume one, that was
looking kind of like a survey going around the world myths of Africa, myths of Australia,
myths of ancient China, ancient Japan, Gilgamesh epic, you can see some artwork on the cover there,
the Native American sacred traditions, even the Maya. They have some scriptures that were written
down just after the European invaders started coming and burning all their texts and destroying,
trying to stamp out their culture, which was a tremendous crime that was perpetrated, a massive,
you know, war crime that was perpetrated for centuries against the peoples of the Americas.
And that was also based on, or at least, you know, people were trying to excuse that with
literalist belief systems, literalist Christianity plays a big role in that whole genocide that
took place. But also it went into some of the myths of the Pacific, peoples of the Pacific,
vast, vast culture with the same body of, basically, same body of myths stretching all the way from
New Zealand, all the way to Hawaii, all the way down to Tahiti, the biggest dispersion of a single
culture on the planet. Then in 2016, Star Myths of the World volume two, that's all about the
Greek mythology. And also in 2016, later that year, I published Star Myths of the Bible, or volume
three, Star Myths of the Bible, obviously all about the stories of the old and the New Testament.
And then before we get to Star Myths of the World volume four, dropping back down to the first floor
on your screen there, I wrote Astro Theology for Life, where I started to try and, you know,
maybe do a little bit more application. And also, instead of going just by one culture, now I'm in
this book, I'm kind of going through by myth pattern, like we see this pattern of a baby who's
placed into the water by his mother and set adrift. And we find that pattern all around the world.
Sometimes it's called an oikotype, which is an interesting word that comes from botany,
but it's like we see this kind of same, this same plant
development in these different plants around the, you know, that are found in different
climates. And so they call that an oikotype. And then there was a Swedish folklorist,
whose name was Carl von Sidov. And he said, I'm going to use that term oikotype to talk about
kind of in the fairy tales and the folklore of mostly Europe he was looking at, I believe.
You see these same patterns, you know, it's like the older two sons go off and get married,
then the third son is kind of, you know, has all these adventures happened to him,
and he meets up with trolls and giants and things. That kind of pattern that repeats over and over,
he called it an oikotype. So in Astro Theology for Life, I was going through more by oikotype or
myth pattern, rather than in looking at all the different places around the world that
this pattern comes up or that pattern comes up, like the goddess who has to be made to smile,
for instance. This is a pattern that we find in ancient Greek myth. We find it in the myth of
ancient Japan. And then in the Bible, you may be familiar with, there's a famous kind of
story where a woman, it's not a goddess in this case, but she smiles and then she gets called on it.
And she said, no, no, I didn't smile. I wasn't smiling. You remember that story?
The story of Sarah. So this pattern of the smile, you know, is found around the world.
What's that about? So I was looking at that a little bit in Astro Theology for Life,
and I also wrote this book. Same year, 2017. That's actually a collection of some of my
first 1000 blog posts. I just posted my 1200th blog post. Now I've got 1200 blog posts. So
this book, Ancient Myths, Ancient Wisdom, you can actually just read the blog for free. You don't
have to get it in an 800 page book if you don't want to. But it's kind of nice, actually. It came
out kind of nice to have it. Instead of having to flip through your screen, you can read it as a
book. And then in 2018, I wrote Norse Myths. So I went back to the Star Myth series there, Volume
4, Norse Mythology, which is, you know, interesting to a lot of people are very into Norse Mythology,
and we can get into that later. But then actually, I'd learned so much since writing Volume 1,
I realized I need to go back. So back to the left side of the top row and redo Volume 1,
because I'd learned a lot more about the connection between the myths and the stars,
and I wasn't satisfied with all of my interpretations from Volume 1. So I
wrote a new second edition of Volume 1, and that came out in 2019. So now we're all caught up.
Those are the, I guess you could say nine books if you count rewriting Volume 1. So
it's much expanded anyway. Yeah, no, you put a lot of effort and energy in. In fact,
I want to kind of just briefly say, when I was in high school, I was struggling, you know, with
this internal struggle where, and I don't care what people think about me or what I think about
things, I'm just a host on a show, you know, and I enjoy entertaining many thoughts. But I say this
for the sake of our audience, because I know a lot of the audience is like, ah, the whole books
rubbish this and that. I remember reading, now it was a King James version. I was a young man.
I was starting to smoke pot with the kids at school, but it wasn't for any type of medicinal or type of
like, you know, shamanic type or any type of spiritual. It was for purely going to the parties,
doing the typical things, as you know, what I'm talking about. And I remember reading the first
time the entire account, you know, from Old Testament to the New. And I went on this journey,
like I literally was, and now that I've like read Joseph Campbell with the hero's journey and stuff,
like the hero with a thousand face, et cetera. I remember walking up on the mountain with Moses
and like literally going through the wilderness, like inside, it was in my mind, it was kind of like
when you read a book and you're there in the book and you're picturing it. And that I remember
finding beauty in the story. And I always loved telling the stories. You're doing more than just
the biblical in this situation, which is very cool, because I love seeing that, for me, it expands
and opens up the doors of having separation from, oh, this book's the only one and, you know, people
who cast people out for not thinking the way you do, not talking about you, I'm just in general.
But I think this is beautiful because you're showing patterns and themes across the world
that are all similar and it's not just the flood. You know, everybody always likes to go, well,
the flood, you know, that's in every culture, but you're talking about the smile of Sarah. I mean,
who, who does that? You know, like, that's not a common theme. People don't think Sarah's smile
has patterns that run throughout all these things. And why are all these ancients doing that? And I
know you're going to get into this because there's a reason they're all looking a lot alike in the
why they're telling the same stories in different cultures. But I really appreciate that, man.
Yeah, thanks. That's a great, that's a great perspective about
the fact that these, all these ancient sacred stories clearly are based on the same ancient
system. And this system is, A, it's worldwide. And B, it's extremely ancient because it is the
same system that is underlying the myths of ancient Egypt. You know, one of the oldest
civilizations we know of, it is underlying the myths of ancient India. So in, in that first
edition, in the top left of your screen there, I've got more than one chapter about the myths of ancient
India. You know, one of the oldest cultures we know of it underlies the myths of ancient Mesopotamia,
including ancient Sumer, one of the oldest cultures we know of. The first texts that we have, the
oldest texts that we have are already using this system. The Gilgamesh epic is already using this
system from ancient Mesopotamia. The Enuma Eilish from ancient Mesopotamia is already using this
system, including in the Sumerian versions and also the later Babylonian and Akkadian versions,
even more clearly. Which shouldn't that red flag you? I mean, for anybody who's looking into this,
shouldn't that make you say at the very least, how much older is this knowledge?
You know, it's beautiful, what you're showing here. It's amazing. And so probably what happened,
now, you know, there's, there's a whole host of researchers who have been saying for a very long
time that there's evidence of ancient advanced cultures way before ancient Egypt. And that,
you know, the conventional timeline is obviously in need of revision. I'm talking about
the late great John Anthony West and Robert Shock and Graham Hancock. And, you know, you can,
there are, there are people who are looking at archaeological remains and saying, well,
look at these connections and look at this and look at that. And this evidence is like a whole
additional body of evidence, which shows that there was something before,
something that was already very advanced, and it probably got wiped out in some kind of
cataclysm, whether it was a natural disaster cataclysm or whether some people think, well,
there was a cosmic war or something that wiped, you know, wiped everything out, that's possible too.
But what we have are probably the remnants of an ancient worldwide system that is now just,
even in the ancient times, was dimly remembered and then maybe
misinterpreted by some people later on. So we can get into that. I just put all, I put these books
up just because I wanted to talk through a little bit of kind of my journey as I've been exploring
this really for now, more than 10 years, because I started writing my first book and
basically I started exploring this in like 2009. And obviously I was writing that in 2010 for it
to be published in 2011. But it hasn't, it's not like I'm, it's monolithic. I've been learning
along the way. And you can see that if you read the blog post, if you go, you know, I've been,
uh, this is a process of discovery for me, but it's, it's pretty amazing, Derek, like you said,
that you can find these connections and they're overwhelming in, in number to where it's not
even like, this is not even a theory. It is just, there is so much evidence. It is for sure this
is going on. The connection between the stars and the myths is for certain. I can say that with
a hundred, I mean, these, these books represent, uh, almost 5,000 pages, but these are not
in books. They're pretty thick books, but this is just scratching the surface. These books are
just scratching. It's like I have to leave out more than I put in the, the, the Greek myths.
You could write, you know, 10 volumes on just the Greek myths, 20 volumes on just the myths of India,
you know, ancient India. So, you know, I have to say that what you're saying here
actually gives me hope. Okay. I think it's, it's too often. I entertain everybody, you know, I
host a bunch of, a whole variety of guests come on and some of them literally are like, you know,
hey, this books, you know, got a lot of fraud, it's BS, this, this, that in the New Testament and stuff.
And this is a, this is a refreshing episode because I myself just interviewed another gentleman,
Bernie Taylor, who has what's called before Orion. I don't know if you've heard of him, but
yeah, yeah, I know Bernie. I mean, I haven't met him in person, but we've corresponded and
I love what he's doing. I haven't, I'm not an expert on cave art. I'm mostly looking at ancient
scriptures, but go ahead. Yeah, no, he, he, it works together with this material. And, you know,
the 34,000 year old cave are if he's right. And even if he's only right on some of them, because he,
the way he presented it, for those who are watching this have already seen that episode. And if you
haven't, make sure you go check it out after you watch this one, you'll see what I'm saying.
It appears that if he's right, this goes right into why all these stories, there was like a more,
I guess you'd say everyone had a same type of story, if you will. And maybe there were cultures
that had similarities like we do today where there's differences as well, but these cave
arts seem to draw these celestial bodies and, and, and it's not just that they're drawing them,
they're drawing them in a way that's as above so below, you know, the idea that's, you know,
they're seeing things here up there and finding themselves, you know, cosmically related in a
very interesting way. But yeah, I didn't want to take too much of your time up here. I just
just wanted to plug that anyone who's watching this episode kind of sees where we're headed,
because I'm dropping this one after I drop that one. And it'll be perfect for them to see some
archaeo astronomy or I think that's what it's called with what you're discussing here.
Right. Yeah. And archaeo astronomy a lot of times refers to alignments where things are aligned
to celestial, which is absolutely going on around the world. This is all part of,
there's some ancient system that has now kind of been lost. And it actually even conventional
academia is very hesitant or highly resistant to the idea that there could have been a worldwide
system, but we see the same kinds of alignments of the same kinds of structures specifically
pyramids in Mexico and Egypt and the same kinds of actually ratios. And so that's what I'm saying
is the mythical evidence is stands alongside and compliments, I believe the same system is all part
of one gigantic ancient system. Now it's interesting about cave art. I don't want to get off on a
tangent on cave art either, because it's not my area of expertise, but it is possible that
after a cataclysm in Robert shock, especially talks about this,
people may have had to live underground. If there was a solar flare, you know, coronal mass ejection
of particles in dangerous radiation that could actually make the Earth's surface radioactive,
people would have had to actually had to live underground and we find these massive kind of
underground dwellings and cities and things. So that may may well be tied into this story.
Don't feel bad. I'm having Randall Carlson come on soon.
That was fantastic. Yeah.
He obviously has an alternate theory to the Robert shock theory. However, I love both these guys,
because they're both saying the same thing technically in the sense that guys, we had a
reset button happen 12,800 years ago, approximately give or take. And it's like, you know, my numbers
might be off. But you know, what do you do with that? I mean, if you had, I always tell people
like a bathtub of water, fill it up. That's a lot of water. Now fill up the entire planet 400 feet.
You know, what's going to happen to the civilizations that are right next to the water?
Because that's what most civilizations do. Anyway, I didn't want to rabbit show, but
I'll let you go ahead and continue. Are you continuing your slide show?
Yeah, yeah. And I'm going to now I'm going to draw. I just this was actually supposed to be just a
brief intro. I got a little long winded, but you can't do that here, brother. We're gonna have to
go deep. Well, you know, Randall Carson, I have spoken by phone and he's actually said, look,
it may have been kind of a perfect storm. You know, I brought up the Robert shock and he said,
well, you know, it's quite possible that we had a and B going on at the same time, like a double
whammy. So he's very open minded. Obviously Randall's a great. So I'm doing a I'm doing a
trip to Bryce Canyon to look at the stars with the guys from grimerica. I don't know if you're
familiar with the grand podcast and the brothers of the serpent podcast out of Texas. Those guys
are going to be there as well. They did one with Randall last year. Now they're doing one with me
and Bryce Canyon this coming April. Where's Canyon at? Bryce Canyon is in Utah. So price
Canyon has some of the best stargazing. Hopefully it'll be good stargazing while we're there. But
fantastic start. So it's a magical place, Bryce Canyon. It's it's north of the Grand Canyon.
It's in Utah along Highway 15, I 15. And it's right next to also Zion Canyon National Park. So
those two are right nearby one another, but it's fantastic. Dark skies because it's a desert
environment. It's high altitude. And it's away from a lot of city light pollution. So
but but we're also doing another one in September where Randall will be there. And I'll probably
be going to that one as well. So we'll be going to that one as well. So yeah, I've got, you know,
good things to say about all researchers who are searching for the truth. The only thing I'm
concerned with is people who are deliberately putting out, you know, misinformation, which I
don't know who those people are. But I'm sure there's some of them out there. But I think as
long as someone's pursuing the truth, I'm all I'm I am for supporting,
you know, critical thinking and trying to figure out what what's going on in this world. So I
think that's that's great that you bring up Randall. And I'm sure you guys can have an awesome
talk. So so let me get into a little bit about the the connection between the stars and the
myths. But as I was saying, I want to actually dial into, you know, you mentioned, you know,
using recreational marijuana or cannabis. And I want to get into
the application or an application. I can say for sure that there's a connection between the
myths and the stars. Now, what does it mean? Or where did that come from? What civilization came
up with these or culture came up with these myths or the original? I can't prove that I can, I can
pretty well prove the connection between the myths and the stars.
I can't prove what that means. But I've thought a lot about it. And I will say that one of the
things that it means, one of the things has to do with reconnecting with yourself, reconnecting
with yourself. So the myths are absolutely talking about that. They're not necessarily using that
language or the language of modern psychology. But I just wanted to throw up this quotation.
I love this quotation from Alvin Boyd, Cune. So when you talk about people who kind of get upset,
if you talk about the Bible not being literal, actually, the sacred scriptures of the world
are a thousand times more precious as myth than as alleged history. The, you actually can't see
the, the message gets, it's harder to see the message. Some people, I think you can see the
message even if you're taking it literally, but it is easier to invert the message if you're taking
it literally. And that has been done for sure. Taking these literally automatically makes it
about someone else, right? If Moses or Samson was someone who lived thousands of years ago,
and Samson was super strong, then that's not really about me. If I can't bench press 500 pounds,
I'm like, well, I can't really relate to this story. He had the special gift of strength. That's
not about me. It's external. If you literalize it, you externalize it and it becomes something you
have to chase outside of you. And I just said that I want to talk today about how this is about
recovering yourself. So if you're trying to recover yourself by chasing something outside of you,
how is that going to work? You see it going on in our culture all the time. We're trying to
reconnect with something that we've lost, but we're chasing after substitutes for it. So I've
got some quotes about that too. So the first part, I'm just going to throw up some quotes.
Hopefully people stick with it. You can always go to YouTube and listen at 1.75 or two times
speed if I'm going too slow for you. I'll try and speed it up a little bit. But this is a quotation
from a respected authority in the field of addiction. Dr. Gabor Maté, he, I love him by the way.
Yeah, he is so brilliant. He has this, he has this lecture, the addiction to power and the power
of addiction. And in it, the one part just to point out, he talks about how in Buddhism,
I think it's in Buddhism. Yeah, there's these like, I can't remember the name of them,
but there's these skinny necked, fat bodied, hungry ghosts, hungry ghosts. Yes. And they
can never fill themselves. And yeah, this is crazy, man. Yeah, you can see this quotation
actually comes from his book best selling book at the very bottom. I write it down there in the
realm of hungry ghosts. And he talks about the hungry ghost realm is like the, it's like a picture
of addiction. And it can be an addiction to anything. I've got a picture, you know, I found this
Wikipedia or something, but it's not just addictions to things that come in needles. And
we're all familiar with that because we live in a society that that traumatizes and causes us to
become separated from ourself. Actually, the ancient myths we're talking about separation from
yourself. So it must have been going on an ancient or they must have been warning about
or telling us how to, if the ancients had to deal with it, it must be an ancient problem too,
not just a modern problem. I would say that there's aspects of the modern world that probably
exacerbated make things a lot worse than they need to be make there be more trauma than there needs
to be. But in this quotation, he's he's talking about all kinds of pursuing addictions that doesn't
necessarily need to be to illegal substances. It could be to all kinds of things. And we all know
that I don't have to list them. You know, it could be to shopping, it could be to eating, it could be
to sex, or whatever, it could be to any kind, all kinds of self ways that we self sabotage
ourselves. So he says a sense of deficient emptiness pervades our entire culture. And the
drug addict is more painfully conscious of this void than most people and has limited means of
escaping it in other places he talks about. If you're if you're extra sensitive to rejection
and trauma or just emotion, you can be damaged more than someone who's, you know, maybe their
constitution is slightly less sensitive. So some people are even more painfully conscious of this
emptiness. And especially in there's a socio economic aspect to this also, obviously, if you
can't pursue, you know, stock market as a drug, let's say, then you end up pursuing something
that's maybe more readily obtainable on a street corner, then some of the obsessions that people
who have maybe a lot of wealth or economic means can can find ways of suppressing. But he says the
rest of us find other ways of suppressing our fear of emptiness, or of distracting ourselves from it.
It's like too hard to bear. So we either have to suppress that emptiness, or we have to pretend
that it doesn't exist by chasing after something else. I think it's a profound quotation, and it
gets to what I want to talk about about the myth. So we can probably agree that this is true. And I
also have another quotation from that is from a completely different author, Peter Kingsley,
who's a Dr. Peter Kingsley, a professor, I believe he's from England. And he is actually looking at
ancient philosophy. And in this book, In the Dark Places of Wisdom, I put up, remember this
addiction could be in many, many forms. This is just a picture. But he says he's talking actually
about philosophy and religion as a kind of a drug or a means of running away from this emptiness.
He says, he talks about, and Dr. Gabbler-Matte says this too, that you can't stand the present moment.
If you're separated from yourself, then you have to find ways to escape the present moment.
And Peter Kingsley says, if we just stay where we are in the present moment, seeing what we're
seeing and hearing what we're hearing and forgetting everything else, we feel like we're about to die
when we're alienated from ourself. We can't be alone with ourself. We can't just be, we got to
like turn on, so I got to, you know, even if I'm alone for one second, I better start flipping
through Instagram, so I don't realize that I'm, that I'm alienated from myself or that emptiness
is inside. Our mind torches us until we think of something else to live for. What's missing is
more powerful than what's there in front of our eyes. We all know that. The only trouble is that
the missingness is too hard to bear. So we invent things to miss in our desperation. They're all
only temporary substitutes. The world fills us with substitute after substitute and tries to
convince us that nothing is missing, but nothing has the power to fill the hollowness we feel
feel inside. So we have to keep replacing and modifying the things we invent as our emptiness
throws its shadow over our life. And then he says, we all have that vast missingness deep inside us.
He says, Western culture is a past master at the art of substitution,
which is obviously true. It offers and never delivers because it can't. It's lost the power
to even know what needs to be delivered. So it offers substitutes instead. What's most important
is missing and dazzling in its absence and what we're offered is often just a substitute for
something far finer that once used to exist or still does exist, but has nothing in common with
it except the name. In other words, I would say like if somebody says, well, this is
this is what the Bible means. It actually has nothing in common with what the original meaning
is except the name. And he says, even religion and spirituality and humanity's higher aspirations
become wonderful substitutes. Those are pretty hard hitting words.
I'm guilty as charged. I did a video on this channel. Probably not too many people watched it.
And I had a syringe pretend, you know, it's thumbnail with a guy on a cross. And it looks like,
you know, the actual syringe is the cross with Jesus on it and a needle poking out. And I had,
you know, there's an arm there. It's like my addiction to religion. And I really used it as
an escape. Now I didn't, I guess it's kind of hard to say I used it as an escape, but like I really
thought I was seeking out what was right and was so addicted and caught up using it as a weapon
instead of actually considering, you know, how can I use this as a tool maybe in some way and never
worked for me that way. Well, and that can certainly happen. But I would guess that what you were
looking for and what you were getting so excited about, you were, I would say, we all,
it's easy to get alienated from your essential self in this culture. There are cultures where
it's less trauma, less childhood trauma that separates us from ourself. But
modern society, almost everybody is in this condition separated from ourself. And so we're
looking for it. And if you were throwing yourself wholeheartedly into, you know,
literalist Christianity or whatever religion you're pursuing, it's probably because you feel that
missingness and you're chasing after it. And he's saying, look, it becomes a wonderful substitute.
But it's trying to heal a pain. It's trying. And actually, Gabor Maté, I don't want to,
you know, I don't want him to call up and say, hey, stop doing podcasts where you just repeat
my stuff, right? But he says, don't ask why the addiction or why you're pursuing those things.
Ask why the pain. What's the pain that you're running from? What caused that response? What
causes us to be running after something that's a separation from the self as Dr. Gabor Maté and
other psychologists say as well. Anyway, let me, so I'll just put that up. This is from Peter Kingsley,
the quote that I just said, so that everybody can see where that came from. Let's
one more Gabor Maté quote, and then we'll then we'll move on to the how the myths.
See, I got so excited when I heard Dr. Gabor Maté talking. It was after I wrote my even
my most recent book, I hadn't even read his stuff until after I wrote all those books that I showed.
And I said, wow, here's someone who's talking about the psychology that the ancient myths are
articulating. I mean, I talk about in my books that, you know, the Gilgamesh epic is about the
twin Gilgamesh and Kee-Doo. They're not really two people. They're one person, and they have to
be reconciled. They have to be, they wrestle with each other, and then they become fast friends.
And that's a picture of us becoming reintegrated with our own self. And then I hear someone
talking about this, and he's someone who has dealt with people who have had serious addictions. He
worked at a clinic in East Vancouver for over a decade, I think. But anyway, he says, the essence
of trauma is disconnection from the self. And I've got other quotations I could put up from other
psychologists and doctors and healers as well in the same vein that talks about disconnection
from the self. And then he says, that's the good news. The good news because, see, the trauma wasn't
what caused the disconnection from the self. The trauma, he says, if the trauma was that your
parents split, or your parents weren't happy before you were two years old, and your father was
demanding and judgmental, and perhaps harsh with you when you didn't perform well, if that was the
trauma, then you're stuck. Because that can never be undone. It happened. It'll never unhappen.
He's saying, you know, if something bad happened to you in the past, or something good that you needed
didn't happen, like the nurturing that you needed, didn't happen, you can't go back to being two and
fix it. But the trauma is not that thing that happened. The trauma is your response to it. Your
defense mechanism was to disconnect from yourself. And that can actually be fixed. If the trauma was
what happened in you internally, that disconnection from yourself, that connection can be regained
at any time. And so that's, you said, you know, even religion can be, you know, kind of like a
drug, and you made that picture. Well, even astroph theology can be like that. That's why I wanted to
get into this, because you can just chase after, oh, let me chase after the connections between the
myths and the stars, blah, blah, blah. And it's like, oh, now I know more, and I can beat other
people up, you know, when someone knocks on my door and tries to tell me about how much they love the
Bible, I can beat them down. Well, guess what? You're not using it. You're using it exactly the same
you're running after a substitute, and you're getting mad at them for running after a substitute.
This is what it's for is to heal. That connection can be regained at any time. And guess what?
The myths are all about showing that reconnection and how to do it. I would argue that this is one of
this is one of their central things that they're about amazing. The depths of the myths and the
things that they're about is bottomless. It is incredible what they're about. But one of the
things, one of the most important things that they're about is this reconnection with yourself.
So that's why I wanted to kind of structure today's talk about this, because if I just get
up and start talking about, hey, let's talk about how this story about Jesus relates to the stars
and this story from whatever, it's just an intellectual exercise. And it's just
yet another like substitute that we're running after or it can be. So you see what I'm saying?
So I want to get into like what, what's it for? How can it help you? Not just how can it make you
feel like you're smarter than the next guy? That's that's actually not a good, that's obviously an
unhealthy. That's like you're still, you're still following an unhealthy pattern there. So let's
look at an example. Oh yeah. And this is from an interview with Dr. Gabor Matte that he did,
that I listened to and said that is fantastic. So let's look at a, let's look at a myth or a story.
Here we have, can you see it on the screen? A famous painter. This painter was actually a super
trailblazer. His name was Caravaggio. His first name was Michelangelo. It's not the same Michelangelo,
you know, Michael the angel is a figure in the, mostly in the book of Revelation. That's a,
that's a cool name. Michael, one of the most popular names when Michael is the archangel.
Anyway, this, this artist named Michelangelo de Misa, I think was his name. He's from,
he was from Spain and he only lived to 39. You can see from his dates right there. He never
lived to his 40th birthday. He, his technique was very much light and dark and he was kind of the
pioneer of this or one of the, somebody said, you want to know the significance of Caravaggio?
He's the beginning of the modern movement of art period or something like that. But anyway,
we know that this scene is obviously the scene of, tell us Derek, do you know?
This is obviously the resurrected Jesus, according to the narrative, the way that people look at it,
is Jesus rose from the dead is doubting Thomas is not obviously convinced based off hearsay.
He needs to fill and see the Lord himself and sure enough, who appears Jesus.
Yeah. So this is a really powerful scene. It's this episode of doubting Thomas or sometimes it's
called the incredul, incredulity of Thomas. So if you're looking for like the name of some of these
paintings, it'll be la incredulidad or something in Spanish or in Italian or, you know, different
languages. Thomas doesn't believe and he's called doubting Thomas. Okay. Because of that. He does,
he, what, what the, it's actually in the book of John and what the texts actually say is that
on the first day of the resurrection, Jesus appeared to the disciples and disciples, it says
the disciples were in a locked room because they were afraid, you know, they're basically their
leader had just been executed and they were worried that they were next, you know, they were going to
be number two through 12 or two through 13 on the execution list. So they were in a locked room,
according to the text and Jesus appeared even though it was a locked room and said the first
words out of his mouth, the text tells us, you know what the first words out of his mouth might have
been? My Lord, my God. That's after that. You're, you're right. You're in the right ballpark. You're
in the right chapter of the Bible. That's what Thomas says after this episode. Okay. So, but it
actually says Thomas wasn't with them. Sorry. I left that part out. So on the first day,
they're all in a locked room, but Thomas wasn't with them and Jesus appears in the first thing he
says, first words out of his mouth is actually peace. He says peace unto you. That's, that's what
he says peace. And they're obviously astonished. Later they see Thomas. Thomas didn't happen to
be there and they say, Hey, Thomas, you won't believe what happened. This is amazing. Most
amazing thing. We were all blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. And he says, what? Get out of town. I don't
believe it. Get out of here. Stop trying. Why is he saying that? Why does Thomas say that?
What's Thomas's problem? Is he like the worst of the disciples?
He's, why is he doubting Thomas? It's a defense mechanism, right? Has he been burned before?
Right? It's like, why do you have doubts? Why does your mind have, why do you have a doubting
mind? Well, it's because you've been burned before. If someone tells you something that you think is
too good to be true, you're like, hold on, let my defense mechanism sort this out here. Okay.
Thomas is actually, it says in this passage, Thomas called Didimus. If you look in the,
if you look in the, the chapter, the book of John, I don't actually have it open. I think it's
chapter 25, but that could be wrong. It says Thomas called Didimus. That actually means twin.
Thomas the twin, which is very interesting. Who's he the twin of? It never says,
I'll tell you who's, who's the twin of in a minute, but I would argue that this, so what is,
how is this story usually, if you take this literally, well, I'll finish telling the story
and then I'll ask if you take it literally, what does it mean? So Thomas, eight days later or on
the eighth day, it says, so this is a whole week later. They're all in a locked room. This time
Thomas is there and Jesus appears again. And the first words out of his mouth again are peace
unto you peace under you. And then he says, and now Thomas, he says, Thomas, here you have some
doubts. And then he says, Thomas, get out of the room, go. You're out of here. You're thrown out
of the disciple club. No, no, that's not what he does. Is it? He says, come here. Your doubts.
What I loved your video that you sent me last night about you, you're talking about getting
clean from addiction, you know, you've had some, some struggles and you're sharing how you've
been able to, you know, get back in touch with your own self. And you talked about this story of
being pursued by the lion, and then there's another lion, and then you're hanging off a cliff.
And, and what's, and then you, and then you give us kind of the explanation of the story. You said,
the lion that's that was chasing at the top of the cliff, he's the
past and the lion at the bottom of the cliff. He's the future and you're hanging where you are.
That's exactly, that's you're, you're in the present. And what's right there?
The blackberry bush, a blackberry, and you just eat that and you get a little,
you can go on for another couple of seconds. And what, what's the point? You're talking about
staying in the present. If you focus on the lion or the path, well, what are doubts?
Doubts are throwing your mind into either the past, or yeah, the last time someone told me
that they read someone raised from the dead, I ended up losing $200,000 or whatever, you know,
or last time someone told me they love me, then, you know, I got burned. So I'm going to put up
this wall, right? Or you're thinking about the future, like, you're not going to be able to make
that jump shot. Remember the last time you missed that jump shot, or look at all the people who are
looking at you right now, you're thinking about, I'm going to miss it, or whatever you're thinking
about in the future, that your doubts are throwing your mind all over the place, except for the
present moment. And what does Jesus say? Touch right here, present moment. Okay. Now, I would
interpret this story as Thomas, that the doubting mind, Thomas is a picture of our doubting mind,
which is created as a defense mechanism for the trauma of this world. We have this
mechanism that that defends us from getting burned. And we, when we separate from ourselves,
it's because if as an infant, you are traumatized by, by whatever, let's say, you're, you know,
left, you're in terror, and you're, you're in your crib, and you're screaming, and you're afraid of
something for some reason, and your parents have been told, just let the baby cry it out. Well,
you're, as a baby, you know, you don't know anything, but your gut is telling you to be afraid
for some reason. And if you, you don't have any way of fighting off whatever you're afraid of,
you're just an infant. So you're going to disconnect from that thing, that system, that
incredible system of sensors and intuitions that is causing you to be afraid, you're going to
disconnect from your gut, you're going to stop listening to your gut, you're going to stop listening
to whatever you're going to actually withdraw. And that's how, that's how this disconnection
from the self starts. It's like, well, I can't listen to myself, myself, or if you're hurt,
really, really bad by something, you disconnect, you, you disconnect. And that's the ego. And then
you create a substitute mind that started full of rules and full of doubts and full of, how do I
not get burned again? And that's what Thomas is demonstrating. And Jesus is the essential self
that he was disconnected from. Because like I said, Thomas's name is Didymus, the twin. And
actually there are other, there's a gospel of Thomas that was suppressed. It's a Gnostic
gospel. It was rediscovered in the Nag Hammadi Corpus in the 1940s that says, where Jesus is
talking to Thomas, and he says, Thomas, now, since you're my twin and true disciple, I don't
want you to be ignorant of this connection with the higher self. And he doesn't say it in exactly
those words, but he calls Thomas his twin. Thomas, the twin, there are twins all over mythology,
where one of them is divine, and has a divine father, and one of them is fully mortal. For
instance, in Castor and Pollux, the Gemini twins, the father of Pollux is Zeus by the queen of Sparta.
The father of Castor is the king of Sparta. See, Zeus goes in and seduces Lita. I think
that was the one where he seduced her in the form of a swan, Lita in the swan. That's a celestial
story, by the way. The constellation Cygnus, the swan, descends down on the beautiful maiden,
which in that story is played by Sagittarius. I have a video about that.
That also happens with Apollonia Satyana's mother from one of the sources I was reading. And I love
what you're saying about this twin thing, because Jesus himself, you have Jesus Barabbas, you have
Jesus the Christ, and here you have another example of a twin situation. And the previous
guy, Bernie Taylor, that we brought up the cave art, and I don't know how true this is in terms of
his art. I'll leave that up for experts and people who are looking at the video themselves to judge
this. He shows the man with the club facing himself on the rock. Then you had the teacher and the
apprentice. But nonetheless, he had this idea of you're facing your mirror self,
facing the worst enemy, which is your own self. So this is a very, very radically different way of
looking at these stories from what we've been told big time. You mentioned that there's connections
to other myths, or this pattern is all over the place. So just to finish the story of the
King of Sparta, she gets seduced by Zeus, and then Zeus comes down in the form of a swan,
then sleeps with her, and then that same night her husband comes in, and then so there's twins.
One of them is mortal, fully mortal, and can die. One of them is the son of Zeus, can't die.
And this pattern is actually even Heracles, the hero Heracles, more popularly known by his
Latin name Hercules. He has a twin Ithicles, and it's the exact same thing. His father is Zeus,
Ithicles, his father is the mortal. So in the Jesus story, his father is obviously
God, right? It's the same exact pattern. We find twins around the world. There's twins in the myths
of the Maya, the hero twins of the Popovu. The twins are not two different people. The example
I like to use is Gandalf, right? He dug, you know, the dwarfs dug too deep. They awakened what in
the minds of Moria? The, you remember? I can't remember the name of them. They're not pretty
looking. I know that. Yeah, all your viewers are screaming at the screen right now. They're mad at
me. Just please don't throw stones. That's right. The Balrog. So Gandalf the Gray
dies, or you know, it falls, and then Gandalf the Light comes back, if you remember, in the
two towers. Are they two different Gandalfs? No, it's the same Gandalf, but he's been
through something. Now he's a different Gandalf, okay? Or you can think of the egoic mind, the lower
self. Golem in the Lord of the Rings has kind of a persona that is, he's gone through a lot of trauma,
and he is actually, Smeagol is the actual name of the character, but he kind of creates this new
personality kind of takes over and won't, won't let, won't let go. And that's Golem. So the egoic
mind is like this mechanism that we've created that protects us, but it won't let go because it,
it, it doesn't want the essential self to take over because it was created to suppress the
essential self or because it thought that, because there was too much pain. So it's separated from
the essential self. So, and actually you can, this, this story, I'm not going to go into the
connection, the celestial connections of this particular story, but it can be shown to be
celestial in nature as well. So it, but I believe it's a beautiful picture of the reconciliation,
because after he's brought, he's brought right to the very present moment. And look, who's, who's,
who's believing in whom here? Who's believing in whom I would ask, right? We all, so, okay,
so I just told you what I think it's about, but the way we're actually told, if this is literal,
the way we're told that we're supposed to interpret this is what? Well, if you, you know,
you have to have, make this faith in an external Jesus who had a resurrection. Okay.
Okay. That's what that's the way it's taught.
I think you're going to miss the actual deeper message if you think of it as an external Jesus.
This is about reconnecting with your essential self. Okay. And your volume just went really low.
Oh, okay. Really? Can you still hear me? Oh, yeah. Yeah. Okay. I was probably just
looking all around and there you go. Okay, I'll stay closer to the mic.
The essential self that you're disconnected from, remember that quotation from Dr. Maté
that I put up on the screen, he said, the good news is, your essential self never leaves.
And your essential self is, is patient with your egoic mind. It understands why your egoic mind
was created, why it was, why, why that defense mechanism came into being and why it's filled
with doubts. So Jesus doesn't throw Thomas out and say, you, you're the worst disciple. I'm going
to turn you, you know, poof, I'm going to evaporate you or something. No, he is patient with Thomas.
I would say that this story is actually about Jesus is believing in Thomas. In other words,
he's saying, Thomas, I see that you're full of doubt, but you know what? I know that you
can overcome that. I know that you can get back in touch with your essential self.
And he treats him with compassion and he brings him right to the present moment. He says, look,
touch, feel, stop doubting, stop throwing your mind forward to that line at the bottom of the cliff
or backward to the lion that chased you to the cliff and just touch. Come right to that present
moment. That's a powerful picture of reconnecting with the essential self. And then Thomas says,
and then Thomas says, as you said, my Lord and my God, he acknowledges,
look, who would you rather have steering your life, your essential self, who you really are,
or this kind of Golem mechanism that you created as a defense mechanism, you know,
out of your pain, right? Golem, Golem was in the alone for hundreds of years in the bottom of the
mountain in a damp cave with a pool of swampy, stagnant water in it all by himself. And he
starts talking to himself and then he creates this persona. Do you want to have this persona
that you created out of your trauma to be steering the ship? Or do you want your essential self to
be steering the ship? The right, the right relationship is for your, who do you want to
steer your life? Who you essentially are, who you truly authentically are that you disconnected
from and that you suppressed? Or, you know, the, the, this mechanism, this defense mechanism that
doesn't want to let go this like, no, no, no, I'll get burned if I do that, etc. So this is showing
the reconciliation where the egoic self puts the reins or the steering wheel back into the hands
of the essential self. And we see it in other myths as well. Oh, I've got another Gabor Maté
quote here. At the risk of too many, I'm going to get, I'm going to get a phone call. But I think
that this really applies to what we just saw in the behavior of Thomas. We live in a world that
rewards us for being inauthentic and punishes us for being authentic. Okay, we've learned to suppress
our authentic self because we got burned somehow or we got traumatized somehow and we disconnected
from it, we buried it because the world rewards inauthentic, not authentic. And we live in a
culture that seduces us from our true selves with every possible blandishment, reward and promise
of fulfillment through artificial means. This is Dr. Gabor Maté talking, he gave us in an address
in Oakland, he's actually talking to a psychedelic conference, psychedelic science conference in
Oakland, California. And he's talking about how psychedelics, if properly used, can reveal
the authentic self, they can kind of put the egoic mind, they can say, hey, Thomas mind,
take a break for a second, just will you relax please and stop. And so we can actually hear
what the authentic self has to say for a minute. And so he says, the egoic mind develops as a
replacement for the essence. So therefore, when essence shows up, the mind is threatened, the ego
is threatened. So it wants to fight back. Let's think back to the Thomas episode, when the disciples
told Thomas, hey, Jesus showed up. What does Thomas say? What? Hold on. I feel threatened.
I feel doubt. I feel, I feel nervous. I feel like I'm about to get burned somehow again.
I don't want that essential self showing up. Every time the essential self shows up,
I get traumatized. The world beat that out of me. And so he says, so it wants to fight back.
When the psychedelic substance really reveals the mind, what's underneath the mind,
and puts the ego onto the sidelines, as soon as the effect is gone, as soon as the substance
wears off or the experience wears off, as soon as the mind gets back to its senses, the mind wants
to come in and reclaim its territory. And it does that by making nonsense of the experience you just
had. That's exactly what Thomas did when the disciples came up to him and they said, hey,
Thomas, we had the most amazing experience. And he says, nonsense, humbug, right? So that,
I thought that quotation, once again, that's Dr. Gabor Mate, beautifully connects with the story
of Thomas. And that is about reconnecting with the self, the ego mind. We understand why it's
there. Jesus is compassionate towards Thomas. That's our essential self is actually not mad at
our egoic mind, even though the egoic mind has been steering the car and not too well, often
into a cliff, off of a cliff or wherever. It's steering that way because it's panicked or it's
defensive. And the essential self is like, you could let me drive. And the egoic mind is like,
no, no, no, I'm the only one getting us through this. Well, okay. But
yeah, so I forgot to put this up, how it exactly is described to me, that is a beautiful illustration
or a beautiful explanation of what's going on in this story. And I just quickly throw this up.
These are all based on the stars. This can be shown to be based on the stars. I do that in
other videos and things. But this is actually the scene from the Bhagavad Gita. The Bhagavad Gita,
the character in the back there, his name is Arjun. He is the most accomplished warrior. He's
about to go into this great battle, the battle of Kurukshetra. It's in the epic called the
Mahabharata. And he's one of five brothers. These are like hero brothers. And he's the one who's,
he's even been given weapons. He goes up to the divine realm and is given these different weapons
by the gods. He is imminently qualified to go into battle here. But before this great battle,
he is actually filled with doubt, just like doubting Thomas. He's not in doubt that he can
defeat the other side. He's, he's in doubt if it's the right thing to do. He says, you know, a lot of
my uncles and relatives are actually arrayed. This is like this big battle between two sides of this
extended family. I don't want to kill. It might not be the right thing to do. Maybe I should just
sit down on the ground here and, and allow myself to be killed. And he actually in this battle,
he even has as his charioteer, the divine Lord Krishna, who has agreed to be his non-combatant
charioteer in this battle. And Krishna says, okay, Arjun, let me explain to you, let me help you
overcome your doubts. What you have to do is act as if you're not even acting. You have to do what's
right without thinking of the rewards or the outcome or whether the outcome is good. But as
long as you're doing what is right, it doesn't mean you can do what's wrong and not worry about the
outcome. It doesn't mean you just go kill people and don't worry about the outcome. No, he says,
but if you, you have to, in this world, you have to do what's right, regardless of the outcome,
not sitting there going, well, if I do that, then I might fail. Or if I do, if I'll do that,
because I'll get a lot of money or whatever. He says, no, you should act as if you're not even
acting. You should act, you should just do what's right without even, it's almost like you're,
like playing a musical instrument and you're playing above yourself. Like, you're like,
wow, look at what my left hand is doing. I'm not even controlling that. That's, that's what,
so Krishna gives this great, long speech, which becomes the Bhagavad Gita, which means the song
of the Lord. Gita means song. So the Bhagavad Gita is Krishna explaining to Arjun how to act
rightly. And look who's holding the reins. So in this, this metaphor, and I'm not,
I'm not just saying this is what I think it means. There are other ancient Indian texts from ancient
India, Sanskrit texts, the Upanishads, which give this metaphor of the chariot, where the chariot
is like you in the body is being pulled by the mind, the senses or the horses or the,
the motions in the senses or the horses that pull it, and they can run all over the place
if you let them. The mind is like the reins. But if the mind is the reins, well, then who's
holding the reins, right? The mind is not actually who we are. The egoic mind, that's like the mechanism
that was created. But the mind should be in the hands of your higher self. In this case, Krishna
is the higher self. And look at what Arjun is doing. He's saying he's recognizing the divinity.
That hand gesture means he's recognizing the divinity of Lord Krishna. He's putting his hands
together. That's the Anjali Mudra, which means he's recognizing divinity. That's also what,
you know, in the Christian tradition, we pray with our hands together like that, recognizing
divinity. He's, he's basically saying, my Lord and my God, he's saying, why don't you take the reins?
I want the divine self to be steering this chariot, not the egoic, doubting mind. Okay.
Because otherwise the horses are running away with you. So this, this is a parallel. It's,
there's a lot of parallels in this. There's, there's parallels to the gospels all over the world.
So I haven't really shown, I've hinted that there are connections between the myths and
the stars, but I haven't shown any, but let me just pause. Derek, I've talked, you know, a whole
bunch here. How are we doing? Oh, you're doing fine. But, but questions or reactions or complaints?
Not a single question. I know that we could do obviously store star episodes. I know we will.
I think it'll be something that you and me can obviously plan on. I think this is the best
initiation show we can possibly do because this is what I, this is what I've been wanting.
This is, you couldn't have picked it. I'm so glad I said, Hey, you choose what to bring to the table
because, you know, part of me loves getting fed. I do. I mean, who doesn't enjoy finding out mysteries
and like, hold on, you know, you mean that story's here and that story's there? This is so freeing.
And it makes so much sense. It tears down a lot of dogmas that we've been taught,
but it just gets cuts through all of it and just says, find who you will, for me, it's finding who
I really am. Like I said in that video is, is I am finally at a place where I truly am
like content. And when I'm, when I'm feeling like I'm starting to maybe deter off of that path,
I sense it. I know, like it's not even an issue anymore. And I think that's kind of where if you
were to esoterically interpret what we're reading in John, right, where he talks about
blessed are those who believe and don't see, I guess that would be the, the self that finally
is at that place where you have now recognized who you really are. And you continue to, to keep
that, I guess I would suspect. Yeah. I mean, that's great. That's a great, I would say I'm not at the
place where my egoic mind, you know, who's sitting in the backseat there doesn't jump forward and
grab the reins, you know, someone cuts me off in traffic and I suddenly start getting angry.
But if you can sit back and say, wait, who's driving right now? Who do I want to be driving?
Who do I want steering the chariot? Because why is it so if you can detach and say,
why am I suddenly veering off the path? Why am I suddenly so
overwhelmed with the desire to do this or do that? Why am I feeling this temptation or whatever it is?
It usually has to do with because the egoic mind is reacting to some childhood trauma or some,
it's like, why am I, I'm driving to get some food, you know, pick up some takeout or something.
And someone cuts me off and then I miss the red light because of that.
And I start cursing or whatever. If I can step back and say, wait, who's driving the chariot
right now? Is it my higher self or is my egoic mind? Why is my egoic mind taking over? What is it
afraid of? Is it like I'm not going to actually get the food and I'm going to starve? I mean,
it's ridiculous. But why it's like, why are we letting our, you know, kind of like our two-year-old
mind take over? And if you can step back and say, OK, do I want that? Do I want that egoic mind
driving or do I want to give the hands back, reigns back into the hands of who I am, my authentic
self? But I think you're right. I think just if you don't mind me just piggying on that for one
second is that it's, I mean, I'm 31 years old, OK? I've lived and gone through enough. I'm not
some wise guru, Zen master, somebody who has all this stuff figured out. But as far as I have
figured out what I figured out from my experience is that I think we're always going to be in the
chariot. OK, so what I mean is, is in this life, I suspect what I would glean from the story is
that you're always going to, these lessons here are always trying to remind us we're never going
to get to a point where we're just going to like almost like concrete permanently have everything
perfect and boom, we're at a point where it's just my opinion. I think the achievement and the
goal is to try. But I don't want to beat myself up and act like, well, how come I haven't figured
out how to be Lord Krishna 24 seven every moment of every day? I think that's the struggle of life.
And it's like always trying to get better at it progressively. I guess you call it progression
rather than perfection. At the same time, it's, that would be my opinion, just so far in my own
life. And I think that's the goal of like the Buddha, you know, the Buddha's trying to get to
this place of like, and I hate jumping like this, but the Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want.
OK, well, the Buddha, you know, what's he teaching if not the same principle concept of,
I'm content. I'm, I'm, I don't need, I'm, you know, I'm, I'm OK. I'm, there's this inner
inner peace where the same thing King David is crying out in the Psalms or whoever,
you know, wrote those texts, they're saying the same things culturally different. And I think
that's the struggle of life. Would you agree with me that we're always in the chariot and we're never
necessarily always going to be Lord Krishna, so to speak, but the goal is to constantly try to be
the higher self and always try to practice it so that we stay in the higher self more than the,
the mind. Yeah, I agree that we're probably always going to have this struggle. And I'm not
even sure that, you know, Lord Krishna, so I think that the divine realm actually we're,
we connected that through our essential self. Our essential self puts us in touch like,
in the Odyssey, when Odysseus hears the gods helping him, giving him messages, it's because
he's in touch with his higher self. So I'm not sure that we become Lord Krishna. I'm saying that in
this illustration, the higher self, when you're letting your higher self steer the chariot,
and as long as I agree, as long as we're in the body, I agree we're in that chariot.
I don't think we really get to the point where, and I don't think we want to obliterate the
egoic mind. We don't see Krishna obliterating Arjun, we don't see Jesus obliterating Thomas.
The egoic mind actually, you know, there's a, there is a need for doubt, right? There is a need
for being able to interact with society and learn, okay, should I, should I do this or do that so I
don't offend somebody or whatever. I mean, so that I'm respectful in this situation. There,
there is a role for that, but we don't want it to get out of control and take over. That's what
we want the, our authentic self to be the, the one that is driving and not the egoic mind all the
time, but we don't want the egoic mind not to be there. We need it. It's a, it's, it's actually an
important aspect of, of who we are. But what I was going to say, I know we're getting probably
close to the end here, but there may be some people who are saying, well, that's all really
very nice interpretation, but you know, that's just one, one interpretation,
which is true. I don't, I don't claim to be the authority on the myths. I don't claim to be a
guru. I think everyone should go to the myths themselves. And that's where the answers are,
but I do want to show just a little bit of connection to the stars to back up
my argument that this is actually metaphorical, not literal. I mean, there are people who,
there are people who may want to turn it off right now. If they don't want to see the, if,
if you're watching this, because you're, you're taking the Bible literally and you don't want
anyone to, to, to, to cause you to doubt that, then you should probably turn it off before I show
you some of the passages. But I would like to say for those of you who are watching who are also
doubters, okay, who, who, who want nothing more than the text to just not be nothing good. It's
all BS and stuff like that. I'd hope you stick around to pay attention to this because this I
think is going to be important also is try to, my, my request is this, I get it if you disagree with
certain areas and I understand if you have your struggles with this on the opposite spectrum from
a believer that you're a total on unbeliever. But try and consider what David's going to bring up
here because I think this is going to kind of let you understand how the ancients didn't just pull
hocus pocus superstition out of their, you know, out of nowhere. And I think that'll be important.
Yeah, so thanks, Derek. So just let me show a couple of examples of what I'm talking about. Because
I'm now realizing I talked for two whole hours and didn't actually show anyone how the myths are
connected or not quite two hours. But anyway, this is, I'm going to go into the episode a little bit,
just briefly, not all of the connections that could be made about John the Baptist. Now,
when he first encounters Jesus, this is another case of, it's not necessarily that they're twins,
but it's, I think, teaching a lot of the same messages why I want to show it. But it's also very,
I think, very clear. So if you had to guess which constellation, if I were to say, hey,
I think all the characters in the Bible, the characters and the stories are based on the
stars, primarily on the stars. Which, which constellation would you guess,
which, which constellation would you guess might play the role of John the Baptist? Just,
just who do you think you would guess? John the Baptist, he puts water on people. He
Right. Aquarius. Aquarius. Good call. That's who I think it is too. And actually,
I didn't put any paintings from the 1500s up here, but you can see this is the outline on your screen
of Aquarius. And if you look at paintings, you will often see John the Baptist when he's in the
episode of the baptism of Jesus. He is often in this very body posture that you see for
the constellation Aquarius. Now, just because someone painted it that way in the 1500s,
obviously it doesn't mean that the scriptural texts are about John the Baptist is Aquarius.
But remember, John the Baptist says the first one of the first things he says that the scene
of the baptism of Jesus is behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sins of the world.
The text actually says, and you can see that Aquarius is looking right towards,
what do you think would play the role of the Lamb of God? If you had to guess a constellation,
Aries the ram, right? Which could also be the ram or a lamb. It actually does have little horns.
H.A. Ray and his outline doesn't include them, but there's a couple, they're very faint stars.
So sometimes you'll see cave art or petroglyphs actually that look very much like Aries with the
hand, the curving horns. They kind of curve back. I didn't draw them in here, but that's a tangent
we won't go into right now. Aquarius is looking right towards Aries. Notice we're facing south
here. That's in the northern hemisphere to look at the zodiac. The zodiac band is the band of
constellations that the sun goes through. And those aren't the only ones that are important in myth,
by the way. The constellation Hercules is not a zodiac constellation. It's extremely important
in myth. But the zodiac, if they're aligned with the sun, if the sun goes through, quote,
those constellations, in the northern hemisphere, you're going to have to look towards the south
to see the zodiac, if that makes sense. If you think of the earth, right? And we're going around
the sun. I don't even want to get into, I've put some articles about why I don't believe in flat
earth, but I don't want to get into that right now. But if you believe that the earth is a sphere,
if you're on the northern half of that sphere, and if the sun is basically
over the equator and then 23 degrees up in the summer and 23 degrees south in the winter, then
you have to look towards the south to see the sun, right? It goes across the sky along the southern
part of your house, if you're in the northern hemisphere. So anyway, we're looking to the
south. That's important because everything rotates from east to west, just like the sun
rotates from east to west, the stars rotate from east to west. Okay. Sorry, I throw in these
tangents and it actually derails my, it derails the point I'm making sometimes. I'm sorry about
that. You're fine, brother. But so Aquarius is looking right towards Aries and he says,
I just, like I just said, I'm pretty certain that John the Baptist corresponds. You know,
you can read about it in Starmus of the Bible and see lots of reasons to conclude that
John the Baptist corresponds to Aquarius. John, see if Jesus coming unto him and sayeth,
behold the Lamb of God, which takeeth away the sins of the world, sin of the world. John 129,
he's looking right towards the constellation Aries. Now, the reason I was talking about the
stars rotate from east to west, right? We know that the sun rises in the east, sets in the west,
the moon does the same thing. If you watch the moon moves from east to west across the sky and
the stars actually move, it's because the earth is rotating on its axis towards the east, right?
You used to live in North Carolina. They're three hours ahead of us. Why? Because they're on the
east coast and the ball is spinning towards the east. So they get to the sun before the west coast,
right? Because we're spinning towards the east. So if we're spinning towards the east,
the background things in the sky are going to move towards the west. It's just like you're
driving down the freeway and there's a billboard. If you're driving forward, it's going to look
like it's moving backwards. Okay, celestial mechanics. We don't need to get too into that either,
but it's important that things are rising on the left side of your screen because we're facing
towards the south and rotating over towards the right side of your screen. And they're going to
make an arc. They're going to go from left to right. They're going to make their highest point
right above that letter s at the bottom where it says south or that stands for south. Okay.
So this is what constellation is at with the famous three, three star belt. Almost everybody
knows this constellation. Yeah, even if they know not any other constellations, they know Orion.
A very bright constellation. It has the highest ratio of bright stars to total stars of any
constellation. It's got those brilliant stars of the belt. And John says, but okay, so he's rotating
up from the west and Aquarius is sinking down into the west here. And John says, he that cometh
after me is mightier than I, whose fan is in his hand and he will truly purge his floor and gather
his wheat into the Garner. He also says things like the shoelace, or the latchet of his sandal,
I'm not fit to untie or unlatch or loosen, right? This is, this is a celestial scene. He's talking
about the one that comes after comes after Aquarius. Orion is a much bigger, more powerful looking
constellation, much brighter constellation than Aquarius. That's a mightier constellation. He's
coming after John the Baptist, but he's not fit to even untie his shoe. Okay, and you can see
Aquarius is kind of pitched forward. And actually in the foot washing ceremony in the foot washing
episode in the New Testament, you know, the foot washing, Jesus puts the towel around his waist,
and then he goes and washes it. When you look at those paintings of the foot washing, you will see
that Jesus is actually depicted in the outline of Aquarius because Aquarius is like, he looks like
he's going to, you're going to go try and wash the feet of Orion there. But I'm not, I'm worthy to
untie his shoe, he says. And then he says something that's really also very interesting. He says, oh,
okay, so the fan, sorry, I kind of gave it away here. He says his fan is in his hand. What's he
talking about? Like an ornamental fan to keep himself cool by waving the fan in front of his
face? What fan is he talking about there in Matthew 3, 11 through 12? It's a fan to gather wheat into
the garner. It's a winnowing fan. It's called for winnowing grain. It's a fan for winnowing grain.
And you can see there's a picture of a woman in India winnowing, she's actually winnowing rice
in this picture. But you see that basket, it's called a winnowing basket or a winnowing fan.
That, look at Orion. That's the fan that's in his hand. You see that? So there are, there are
passages in scriptures and myths around the world where they talk about a winnowing fan,
not just this passage. That's Aquarius. John is talking about the one who's coming after me is
more mighty than me. He's got a fan in his hand and I'm not even worthy to untie his shoe or unlatch
his sandal. He's talking about Orion, which has this distinctive fan shaped outline, which you
can see in the outline. And you can see how much that resembles a winnowing basket in real life,
right? And then he also says, he must increase, but I must decrease John 330, right? Because Orion
is rising towards the, he's rising up towards the top of the sky. He's moving towards where Aries is
and Aquarius is sinking down, down, down. Aquarius is going to keep sinking down until
all this left of him showing above the horizon will be his head sticking out there.
And we know that John the Baptist, what happened to him? He was beheaded, right? His, his head was
brought on a platter by the daughter of Herodias. Also talked about in Matthew. This is a celestial
scene. And when you see a passage that says, he must increase, but I must decrease. It's actually
talking about the constellations. Orion's going up in the sky. I'm going down in the sky, but it
actually also relates to the egoic mind and the essential self. Which do we want to increase?
Who do we want to have steering the chariot? I want the authentic self. I want to get the egoic
mind out of the way. This is a, it's another picture. I'll just show one more real quick.
Okay. So the winnowing fan, there's actually a foot washing scene in the Odyssey. This is a picture
from the Odyssey. He's almost, he's, he's coming back. I won't go into a big long thing because we're,
we're going pretty long right now, but there is a winnowing fan in the Odyssey. There's also a
foot washing scene in the Odyssey. There are many parallels between the, I've written a blog post
about the parallels between the Gospels and the Odyssey. Odysseus actually goes down into the
underworld and consults the sage Tiresias. You can actually see his head just by Odysseus's boot
down there at the bottom, bottom left of your screen. That's the ghost of Tiresias. This is an
ancient piece of artwork on a vase. Odysseus has to actually slay a ram, which we just saw Aries
again. So it's the same part of the sky that we're talking about. And Tiresias says, Hey Odysseus,
the reason you're having all these problems is you've angered the God Poseidon. So what you need
to do is take your ore from your ship and go in inland until you come to a people who don't know
anything about ships. Keep going until some traveler on the road walking along beside you says, Hey
stranger, what's that winnowing fan doing on your shoulder? Talking about the ore. That'll be your
sign that you've reached a people that know nothing about ships because they're asking why
your ore, why you're carrying a winnowing fan. Well, once again, we just saw that this is a
celestial, you know, reference and it shows up in the Odyssey. So this shows that these myths are
all connected. And Odysseus, the whole Odyssey is about reconnecting with yourself. And Odysseus
is a character who really is in touch with his higher self most of the time. But sometimes
his egoic mind or his, you know, his passions run away with him. And that's when he gets into
trouble. That's when he gets caught in the Cyclops cave. And that's when he, you know,
so it's all about that. Do you want to see one more? Do you want to cut it off here?
Give me one more for sure. I love this. I love this. All right. Last one. This is a scene from
I'm going back to the Bible again. This is a scene. I'm sorry. It's an engraving. It's not full
color. It's older probably from, I think this is from the 1700s or 1800s. But there's a city
being destroyed in the background. You see flames and smoke rising up out of the city. And you see
three travelers on the road getting away. One old man and two daughters. One of them, one daughter
has like a sack of belongings on her head. And then in the background, you see a little figure
looking back. I'll circle that little figure looking back at the city being destroyed. This
is obviously the story. It kind of traumatized me as a kid. I had a Bible book of pictures with
this in there. But this is the story of course of, do you know? Sodom and Gomorrah, of course.
Destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah. And it's the story of Lot's wife looking back. You know,
the angel comes and says, Hey, you need to get out of this city. And when you go, don't look back.
Take your belongings, whatever you can carry. Don't look back. And Lot's wife looks back,
and she's turned into, you recall? Pillar of salt. Pillar of salt. Okay. This is a celestial scene
as well. But this looking back, it's, you can see this pattern. Is it related to any patterns that
we're talking about of doubt or, you know, it's kind of like, Peter has a similar one on a ship
where Jesus is on the water, and he's supposed to walk out and not doubt.
Yeah. So these can, this pattern, obviously the myths are, this is a theme. It's not just in
the Bible. It is in myths around the world. We saw the example from Arjun and Krishna. But
this scene, it may not be, if you're not really familiar with the constellations, this may not
be obvious to you. But I'll try and explain it. Let me see if I can, is there a little pointer?
I don't know how I do a little pointer here. Let's see. Oops. Sorry.
Just did a boo boo, trying to get a pointer. We'll forget the pointer. Let's just look at
the star chart here. The constellation Ophiuchus is right next to the Milky Way. This is an inverted
star chart. Obviously, when you go out in the sky, the sky is pitch black at night, and the stars
are little dots of light. Well, I've inverted the colors to make it easier for people to see on
their screen. So the background is light, and everything that's dark, like the little dots,
are actually shining stars. There's this band going up in between Sagittarius and Scorpio,
and in between Sagittarius and Ophiuchus. That's the Milky Way, that dark cloudy thing
that's rising up there. That's the Milky Way. Ophiuchus is right next to the Milky Way. Ophiuchus
is actually a three-bodied or a triple kind of a constellation. You see the central body of the
figure of Ophiuchus. It looks kind of like a tombstone or a gate or a house with a little
roof on top. Then it's flanked by two serpent-like figures on the left and the right. The name
Ophiuchus means the serpent holder. So the constellation is sometimes envisioned as a
man holding a serpent around his waist. Of course, in the Bible, you can handle serpents and not be
some people are in traditions where they actually handle serpents in church. Well,
that handling of serpents is related to Ophiuchus. But Ophiuchus is a very central and important
constellation, and sometimes it's not just one person holding a serpent. The two sides on the
left and the right can be envisioned as lots of other things. Sometimes they're envisioned as a
branching olive tree. Sometimes they're envisioned as all kinds of things. Those are the two daughters
of Lot, I would argue. You can see on the right hand side of the star chart how there's a little,
that's the serpent head. But look at how the artist has put on her head on the right. The daughter
on the right, she's holding something on her head. It matches right up with Ophiuchus. That's
Lot and his two daughters escaping. And then Lot's wife is actually Sagittarius. Sagittarius is a
constellation that all these constellations have these distinctive aspects that once you start to
understand in the myths, you start to recognize, oh, someone who's walking away and looking back,
that's very often Sagittarius. Sagittarius, the constellation, you can see it, I've labeled it
there, has this characteristic where it looks like it's walking one direction and looking back in
the other direction. In the last previous interview we did, I showed a painting where Artemis was
slaying Actaeon. Remember that? And she's in the same posture of walking away and looking back and
shooting with her bow. That's Lot's wife looking back. I mean, you can see the artist has even made
kind of a water feature there. I can't use a, but you see how the path kind of turns into a river?
It's like it's the Milky Way going in between Lot and his two daughters and
Lot's wife there on the path. And then the Milky Way goes all the way up. You see how the city's
burning there? Yeah. So this is, artwork reveals that somebody knew this system. I don't know if
the artists themselves knew the system or if they were just taught, well, this is kind of the
conventions we use here for this kind of scene or whatever. It's funny, if you don't mind me poking
here, David, we were looking at the Lot story recently on another episode and we saw what appears
based on just the way that the narrative sounds is the Lot story is kind of a flood narrative.
In fact, it's like a repeat of Adam and a repeat of Noah because here he is having to
repopulate based off the narrative, like repopulate everything. Like we're, hold on. I thought
Abraham was right across this land and the narrative spits this kind of flood narrative.
And then also looking at Adam, looking at Genesis one, it seems to me, if you look at it this way,
that the waters being separated from the waters and dry land, et cetera,
also is another flood narrative. It's like there's multiple flood narratives right here.
And I think there's a lessons to be, there's lessons in this to be taught, like you're talking
about with the Milky Way. I had John Knight-Lunwall, Dr. John Knight-Lunwall show and he was discussing
how the floods in the heavens and they corresponded it to possibly real floods that happen on earth.
Of course, there's experience there. But nonetheless, that's fascinating because
how many people actually consider this? What's the meaning to this though? I know you're going
into the stars. Is this that a whole another show?
Well, yeah, so you said a lot there. Let me, I'll come back to the meeting in a second. But yeah,
I've met John a couple of times. He's great. And I would argue that these, that's very perceptive
that you're seeing these as like flood patterns or this pattern playing out. What happens in these
star myths is that the same, the same constellations are the same region of the sky. And this is a
very important region of the sky that I've got shown in the star chart will be configured in
different myths over and over and over again in different ways. It's like when you see a movie
and you see an actor and you go, wait a minute, I've seen, I've seen that actor before him or her.
Wait, where have I seen her before? Oh, she was in that or he was in that. But now they're playing
a totally different character with a totally different costume even, you know, maybe now it's
sci-fi and that one was said in Victorian England or something. And now they're talking in a totally
different accent or whatever, but it's the same actor. That's what the myths do. There's only
so many constellations. So this constellation will show up. It's like that actor, that, that
constellation, that actor will play many different roles. Okay. So these stories about
separating water and, and heaven and you see that in the Mesopotamian myths as well. And I talk
about that a lot in this most recent book, The Ancient Worldwide System that I showed you,
the 2019 book. But this particular Lot's wife, I, you know, I would say that what this
has to do with is the, the reconnection and going, going up the Milky Way has to do with like raising
the consciousness. The Milky Way actually, all this actually relates to the human body as well,
like the chakras, raising your chakras, like the spinal column, the Milky Way up to the dome of
heaven. That's your skull right up there, right? I mean, the whole universe is contained inside of
you, in a sense, as well. So this part of the zodiac, we don't have the time to get into the
whole thing, but what I believe is going on is that this is a language. The myths are speaking
a language where the different constellations and the different parts of the cycles, these heavenly
cycles, whether it's the daily cycle, the monthly cycle, the annual cycle around the year with its
seasons, the precessional cycle, the precession have a meaning in the different, a way of kind
of like a shorthand is if we're talking about Scorpio and Sagittarius in this part of the Milky
Way, that is right around the turning point of the year. That's where the sun is passing through
there, right at the winter solstice, the lowest point. And then coming back up towards, that's
where the low, the sun reaches its lowest point across the horizon. And then the days start to
get longer again, after that, the sun turns back and starts going back towards the north
for us in the northern hemisphere. That means we're heading back towards summer. So
what this means is when you start, what holds you back from this path is doubts, is like,
you know, focusing on the lion that's behind you or the lion that's in front of you. That's what
Lot's wife is doing right there. This is that part of the story. This is that part of the cycle.
I mean, the story of Lot and his daughters is like, this is a low point. Like the whole thing's a
low point. What was happening to them in Sodom, in Gomorrah is like people are banging on the door
saying, hey, we want to, you know, can you send your daughters out so we can rape them? I mean,
it's just low, terrible, awful stuff being, and you're saying, what is this, what on earth is this
trying to teach me? What in the heavens is this trying to teach me? It's a language. This whole
code is talking about us. Well, I think it's teaching us things on multiple levels, but one of
those levels is getting back in touch with who you are, not letting your doubts run away with you,
not letting your lower, you know, kind of urges. If you're not to quote, not to quote Dr. Mate one
more time, but he says, he quotes someone who says, if you're not conscious, you're basically not
free. You're just a puppet. You're just, you're letting your, you know, someone pushes your button,
somebody calls your name and you hit them, you know, he who's controlling whom he controlled you,
he just pushed you. He's moving you around like a puppet, right? So unless you get, unless you
become conscious and the path to become conscious in the myths is up the Milky Way. And actually,
it's often through Ophiuchus. You mentioned the Buddha. The Buddha is actually, I can demonstrate
celestial as well, connected with Ophiuchus. Jesus is actually connected with Ophiuchus. If you look
at that outline of Ophiuchus, the cross bar, look at the triangle at the top. If you take a line
right from that very top triangle and go straight down, you've got a perfect crucifix. If you go
straight down from that top star down to the bright star in Scorpio Antares, you've got a cross in
between two, in between two other figures on either side, crucified in between two thieves.
And if you look at paintings, like from the medieval times and Renaissance times, you'll see
that Jesus is usually on a perfect cross that fits right in the central part of Ophiuchus.
And the thieves are usually on very contorted crosses that look like the two sides of Ophiuchus
there. So the reconnection with your higher self happens right along that path. And doubt is like
to be warned against. Well, you're going to have doubt, but I think that's what's happening here
with Lot's wife. If that answers your question, I mean, it's probably there's probably layer,
layer, layer, layer, layer. I'm sure that's what I was thinking. Yeah, there's so many layers and
a lot of wise people throughout history have obviously, you know, done things with these stories
and deep meanings to them. David, let's let's let's do another one some other time where we can go
into other examples and stuff on the stars. I really enjoyed this getting an understanding on
how you're approaching this topic and how one can apply this stuff when you're reading this. Now
it makes me want to reread some of these stories. How can people get ahold of you? Or do you have
like a website? I mean, like, what would you recommend people do to help? Yeah, I've got a website.
And so actually, that story also pertains to the story of Orpheus in Eurydice. So that that looking
not looking back, the story of Orpheus in Eurydice from the Greek myths, but I do have a website,
there's some cool quotes, people can pause it on YouTube and see those. Here's the website,
Starmus of the World. And on there, there's a lot of videos that I've done, people can subscribe
to the YouTube channel if they want. They can see all the previous podcasts there. And then
there's a blog with, you know, like I said, 1200 blog posts over the years that you can fully
searchable, you can go search through that and check it out. But yeah, thanks so much for having
me over Derek. How do we stop the share? I've got it. I've got it. Oh, yeah. So you go down to the
middle. No, at the top, at the top, it'll share. Should give you an option at the top. You'll see
a little square button. There you go. I think you got it. Did you get it? No, I can't see my
mouse for some reason. Can you stop it remotely by any chance? Let me see. Stop participant sharing.
Yep. There you go. All right. Yeah. So so yeah, I definitely want you to send me over the link to
your website. It'll be down in the description. Guys, go check out this work because
I'm telling you, I think this is the best explanation for these things. And, you know,
yes, my channel MythVision podcast is centered on educating, you know, giving ideas, different
thoughts and allowing for different thoughts. This is just another one that I think is very good.
And it explains the patterns in a way that is applicable and beautiful among all humanity.
So I really appreciate you joining me on this, David. And we will for sure go deeper in other
ones on different things with the same. So next time we do a show with David, I want everybody
to start at the beginning and get rid of all the what we were thinking and just go, okay, let me
look inside when David talks so that we can try and understand what you're trying to say. I really
appreciate it. Thanks so much, Derek. It was great. Thanks for having me over. And I always
hope that this will help others and, you know, be used in a positive way. So
absolutely best wishes with what you're doing. I mean, I think you're doing really positive
things. And thank you. And I really enjoyed our conversation. Sorry if I talked too much.
No, we didn't get to hear you enough. No, I'm actually glad too many people think I talk too
much. So it's okay. This was great. And in case you're watching, you didn't know we are MythVision.
