All right, everybody. The debate's coming up with Dr. Mike Lacona and Dr. Bart Ehrman.
I really hope you go sign up mythvisionpodcast.com forward slash resurrection. It is in the
description and I pinned it in the comment below so you can go do that while there's an early bird
special. Seven hour debate, they're going to be going into almost everything you can imagine,
critically assessing both sides. And Dr. Ehrman is very confident, as you will see in this video,
that Dr. Lacona is going to be found wanting. He's going to be scrambling with the information
that is brought up by Dr. Ehrman. I asked some point and questions today I think that are very
relevant to the issue of the resurrection when it comes to the apocalypse and the end. If Jesus
is the first fruits of the resurrection and the final resurrection is coupled to that,
why is there just this divorce of the resurrection of the saints or the final resurrection and Jesus
resurrection? What's the deal with it? There's this huge gap or did Jesus predict this stuff would
have happened back then and Paul believed that Jesus resurrection was a sign that the final
resurrection was about to happen. But if it didn't happen, did Jesus resurrection even happen?
We are MythVision. Welcome back to MythVision podcast. Your host, Eric Lambert. Dr. Bart Ehrman,
welcome back. Thank you. Thanks for having me again. Thank you, everybody. You just saw the intro.
Be sure to sign up before it's too late. There's never been a debate like this. Seven hours.
So, I don't know if they're going to end up finally discussing their favorite foods or what
you guys might end up talking about this whole time. I've actually heard people say that in the
chat like, what is there to talk about for seven hours? There's a lot to talk about. And so, I
just want to maybe give you a chance to explain what do you expect is going to be discussed in depth.
You know, if Mike just read his book, Verbatim, for the debate, it would take him 15 hours to get
through that. We have no problems talking about things. I agree. Well, there are all sorts of
issues that would require significant discussion. And one of the frustrations with some debate
formats is that you've got lots of things to say and you don't have a chance to say them.
There will also be questions and answers. And it'll be mixed up. It's not just going to be
hearing me drone on for 40 minutes and hearing him drone on for 40 minutes and hearing him.
It's not going to be like that. It's actually going to be active with a lot of different components
to it. But there's so much to talk about. I mean, if you're talking about the resurrection,
for one thing, you're talking about what kind of sources do you have and it has to do with
can you trust the Gospels? So, it's a really a much bigger question than the resurrection. It's
can you trust the Gospels when they say something? And the four Gospels, the main thing they want
to say is that Jesus died for your sins and he was raised from the dead. Well, do they present
a reliable case for that? So, that's one kind of set of questions that we'll talk about the Gospels.
Mike and I have very different views about the New Testament and certainly different views about
whether historians can talk about things like is the Bible inspired? I mean, how can a historian
talk about whether the Bible is inspired? Of course, a historian might think the Bible is
inspired, might believe that. But is that a historical statement? I mean, how can historians
show what God's doing? You know, try and show me what God did yesterday. Really? How do you do that
as a historian? And so, you have questions about the inspiration of the Bible and whether it's
trustworthy. And then you've got issues with history. I mean, do historians, I was just
indicating, do historians talk about things like resurrections? If you talk about resurrection
of Jesus and say that you can historically demonstrate it, okay, which other resurrections
can you demonstrate? Oh, no, just that one. Well, I just that one. There are others talked about
in ancient sources. Yeah, this is the one that's best attested. Really? Okay, so you mean if you
have three people who say that it, then you can do that historically, but if you only have two,
it's what? And so, you know, but the big question is, I mean, can historians talk about
miracles at all? I mean, what historian talks about miracles exactly? I mean, you know, name me a
historian of the Revolutionary War that describes the miracles that happened. I mean, the life of
Napoleon, do you describe miracles? Do you do? I mean, what? You know, of course not. I mean, read a
biography of Washington, you don't read about miracles. Why not? Because historians don't deal
with miracles. So to say that historians ought to show that the miracle of Jesus' resurrection
happened, what does that even mean? Historians don't deal with that kind of thing. So this begs me
to ask that, you know, are like historical evidence wise, if we're looking at sources,
is resurrection something that happened more often than once? You say, yes, can you give me
a few examples real quick? Well, I can certainly give examples of people who who were taken up to
heaven when they died, who were alive one minute and up in heaven the next. And so, I mean, the
founder of Rome, Romulus, was taken up to heaven without dying. Near contemporary Jesus, Apollonius
of Tiana, was put up in charges before the Roman authorities and ascended to heaven. And so,
you certainly have people brought back from the dead. The thing about the resurrection of Jesus,
though, is an important point that Mike and I would both agree on, is that it is not being
described as a near-death experience. And so, if you've got somebody in the Gospels, for example,
who dies and then is brought back from the dead, you could say, yeah, well, they had a near-death
experience, you know, happened to a cousin of mine. But in the case of Jesus, the whole point is that
he didn't come back from the dead to die again later. The resurrections that he died was taken up
to heaven. He was really raised all the way up, not just raised all the way around and lived for
another 20 years. And so, that's the miracle. And that's what you can attest and other sources
for other people. So, this question, I kind of phrased this conversation in a way of saying,
you know, you're going to show why you can't historically, you know, demonstrate that the
resurrection happened. But the question I'd like to know is, is it historically demonstrable that
Jesus probably didn't resurrect? So, while he's going to be making a case to say he did, and you're
going to say, no, look, you can't, are you taking a neutral position and saying you can't and the
historian shouldn't? Or is there evidence, based on these sources, to maybe think actually he didn't
rise and another phenomena might be taking place? Yeah, I mean, I don't think Jesus rose from the
dead. And I'm going to be showing why I think that. I mean, but the thing is, it's really,
I mean, at the end of the day, it's not a discussable item historically. And so, that has to be laid
out pretty carefully, because people will say things like, what's the best evidence? And my
view is there's no evidence. How can you have evidence for a miracle? But there are reasons
for thinking he wasn't raised from the dead. I mean, for example, our sources are hopelessly
confused on the major points about the resurrection. And so, are these the kinds of sources? The sources
are written by people who are fervently believing in Jesus. And are these the kinds of sources you
use to, that historian wants? And so, there are reasons, one reason for thinking he wasn't raised
from the dead is because I don't think there was a tomb. But I mean, I don't think there, I mean,
Romans didn't allow people to be buried. And so, so I, so I will be, I will be mounting arguments
for why I don't think it happened. But my, my bottom line is going to be that even if it did
happen, it's not a historical belief. There aren't historical beliefs. There's history. And if you've
got beliefs, that's something other than history. You know, I thought about this as well, while
Christians love to talk about the resurrection, Dr. Ehrman. I wondered if we could tackle it in,
let's put it like this, apocalyptic prophet, the way you wrote your book about this Jesus figure,
who's waiting on the end. Christians love the die on the hill, arguing about this resurrection
idea that Jesus rose from the dead, because it is the center to the faith. But if we can show
demonstrably that expectations that were supposed to happen, like Mark 13, and the end of the world,
the new heaven and new earth, et cetera, et cetera, were anticipated to happen within his lifetime,
and even he can't get that right. But we're supposed to believe God raised him from the dead.
Isn't this another way of approaching it, saying, what are the likeliness that this actually
happened? This guy rose from the dead, but he can't even get the end of the world correct?
You could argue that. I don't think it would be effective, because your opponent will say,
actually, you're misinterpreting those verses, and that Jesus didn't make that prediction.
And others could say, look, just because God raised him from the dead doesn't mean he was perfect.
I know Christians who think that Jesus actually committed sins,
but, and that he wasn't all knowledgeable, he wasn't almighty, he was a human, but that
God raised him from the dead. And so I don't think his humanity necessarily is a trump card
against the resurrection. Well, I thought that the, I would think that an apocalyptic prophet's
thinking the final resurrection would happen. Like that was part of the expectation is that
it wasn't just Jesus' resurrection that was anticipated. And I know that there are various
voices and the New Testament is not one cohesive message on this topic. But Paul seems to have
said, well, he's the son of God since he was raised, but he's the first fruit of the resurrection,
like meaning there's going to be some following very soon after this.
I think that's right. That is what I think Jesus did think is going to happen in this generation.
So it just developed. It's a developing, like you say, there's like tree rings that keep
developing out from an original apocalyptic prophet. I mean, when I was in seminary at Princeton
Theological Seminary, I'd say a large number of my colleagues who were studying for ministry
agreed that Jesus was wrong about when it was going to happen. And they thought he got raised
from the dead. And so I don't think those two things are linked. The way that an outsider would
think they are linked, you think, well, you know, you can't have both ways. Well, yeah,
people do have it both ways because they say, look, he's fully human and fully divine. But
if he's fully human, it means he's fully human. Yeah, I just see so many problems with you know
where I'm coming from. Of course, that's why we're not that's why we're not believers, but it's not
a logical contradiction. Okay. Yeah. Look, you just mentioned he's man, he's God, he's both.
This raises some red flags in my ears. You know, there are a lot of scholars like you who will
say there's this development that is growing about this divinity of this guy named Jesus.
And, you know, I was listening to an interview last week with Mike Jones, inspiring philosophies,
a huge Christian apologist YouTube channel, asking Mike Lycona about Jesus being God in Mark,
right? And he said, look, can you show us how he's equated with Yahweh in Mark? And, you know,
I still, even as a non-believer, wouldn't have a problem if they found remnants or elements of this,
so to speak, in Mark. But he used the example of Jesus walking on water to show Yahweh walked on
water. These are elements within Mark that are kind of, you see where I'm going with this. Yeah,
I know this. Yeah. What do you, what do you say to that? Completely bogus.
How would you respond to the walking on water particular? The only Christian view is that
God gave Jesus his authority. It didn't make him God, it didn't make him Yahweh. Yahweh bestowed
his own authority on Jesus. So that, so if Jesus does something that Yahweh did, that's because
he was authorized to do it. That's how it worked in the ancient world. If you were the king,
and you, you sent a, like a messenger, the messenger was treated like you, like if you
sent a messenger to a village, you know, they would, they would treat him like the king because
he's representing you and he has your authority. Jesus in the early Christian tradition had God's
authority and so he was treated like God. But there's a difference between having the authority
of God and being equal with God and the difference between that and being identical with God,
being identical with Yahweh. I don't know, these evangelicals who say this thing, I just,
I'm puzzled by it. And, you know, I know people have been writing about, you know,
can't understand why I'm puzzled because this is what people have always said. No,
they have not always said it. And quoting Justin Martyr at me is pointless, by the way. I don't
know, you probably don't read this, but I mean, I just think that, you know, I'm sorry, this is
not the historical view of Christianity, so far as I know, and I've studied it for a long time. So
maybe if people can point it, point me to a correction, like in the New Testament,
that'd be fine. But the fact Jesus walks on the water, yes, of course Mark portrays Jesus
walk. And yes, Mark does see Jesus as a divine being. I agree. Mark who describes divinity to
Jesus. He does not think he's Yahweh. The idea that Yahweh and Jesus, I said, I mean, they still
believe in the Trinity, I assume. So I'm not sure who's the second. I mean, if the Son is Yahweh,
I'm not sure what the Father is. In fact, I've never had anybody explain that to me, but
traditionally the Father's Yahweh and Jesus is the Son. Yeah, it seems anachronistic. When you
already hold to a creedal consensus, Trinitarian position within Christendom, and then you're
reading the Gospels, you find elements of him being divine. It's easy for them to see and find
ways to equate. That's why I run into these problems. He doesn't know the end, but he's
equal with the Father and only his Father understands the end. I'm big into this apocalyptic
thing because that's one of the reasons that it sealed the door shut for me, is finding out that
it was expected. So my last question is, in that vein of apocalypticism, I recently just interviewed
John Jay Collins two or three days ago, and we were talking about how the end did not happen.
He looked at me like I was crazy because I asked him very basic questions that you would think
a three-year-old would know. Like, what does heaven and earth mean? When he says heaven and earth
will pass away and he's like, heaven and earth. And there are people, believe it or not, these
preterists that I always bring to the table with you, who think heaven and earth is a covenant term
for God's covenant people or the first covenant is a heaven and earth, which is the Mosaic covenant
or some other redefinition. As you could see, this is what they do. So Mark 13, is that the end?
Is the destruction of the Jerusalem temple the end? Or are these the signs that they expected
the end would happen after these things would take place?
Well, I think it depends what you mean by end. I mean, my sense is that in the Gospels, the idea
is that the current order of things will be destroyed and that a good kingdom will come to
earth. So there'll still be an earth. So the earth isn't going to blow up. And that there will be
humans here and that there'll be life here. And so what's being described, I think, is the
destruction of the current order. But it's not the end of the world in the literal sense.
Do you think it's fair to say that that current order is the Jerusalem temple,
their priest, their setup and limiting it only to that? Or do you think that the end of the
current order is literally a universal understanding of the earth and the problems within the world,
et cetera, et cetera? The difficulty is that in these descriptions, you have the sun turning
dark and the moon to blood and stars falling from the sky. And if that is all literal, then
literally the universe collapses on itself. So there's no place for a kingdom of God anymore.
I don't think that Jesus talked about a new creation of the heavens and of the heavens and
the earth. I think that in the book of Revelation, you still actually still, it calls it the new
heavens and the earth, but it doesn't mean that the old one is destroyed. It means that the powers
that are in control are destroyed. And so my sense is that I think Jesus was talking about the
destruction of the current political order is going to be destroyed and that it's going to have
cosmic consequences because the forces of evil that empower these kingdoms will be destroyed.
And so the cosmic destruction is symbolized by the destruction of the sun, moon and stars.
But it's just a guess. He might have thought the whole universe is going to be destroyed and then
God is going to make it new earth. I really don't know the answer to that. But it's the problem
with symbolism is that you can get lots of it, you can get most of it, but some of the details
you usually don't add up. And it's because symbol, they're not direct narrative linear descriptions
of things. Yeah, it's been this tug of war for me. Tom Wright writes that it was fulfilled
and John J. Collin thinks it wasn't. No, of course it wasn't. Yeah, I know the destruction of Jerusalem
is not what he's talking about. I mean, that's clear. Just read what he says. It's not about the
destruction of Jerusalem. He's talking about the destruction of the entire created order,
but the earth, you know, the powers, the powers of this world. And so, you know, including the Roman
Empire. And so it's not just the destruction of Jerusalem. You can see how someone would be
confused, especially if they're not confusing. Yeah, it's confusing. Yeah, it is. Dr. airman,
I'm excited for this debate. I can't wait to see what happens here. And I will say I interviewed
Mike Lacona. And at the end, I said, How bad do you think you're going to beat him? You know, and
he said, Well, I'll tell you this, this was his words. And I'd love to get your words on this.
His words were, Well, I think I have better arguments than him. But nobody can beat Bart
in a debate. Bart's way better at communicating. Yeah, I don't think he has better arguments.
I really don't. No, I don't. He doesn't. He doesn't. And, you know, if you instead of
like having your way of watch, you should, you should have a group of historians evaluate his
claims that you can prove the Jesus is raised from the dead. You know, not Christian historian,
just historians, historians. Is this the sort of thing you can show just
surveying historians, see what they say. So what do I think? So my view of these debates is that
everyone who is engaged in a debate, one on one, everyone who comes out of the debate thinks,
man, I really crushed that guy. The other guy saying the same thing.
Oh, man, I really do appreciate your time, Dr. Armin. And everybody goes sign up right now,
because the end is nigh and the signs are right there. We've just given them to you. So just
remember that. And don't forget, we are MythVision.
