Hey guys, welcome back. Here we're going to talk about Jesus being a hoax, the Jesus hoax.
Here I have Dr. David Skirbina. He tells me to call him David during the program,
and he's going to be talking about how Jesus, the Gospels, the New Testament is all a hoax.
Now he takes a firm stance on this. Usually you hear some type of blend from other scholars that
say, hey, no, there's earnest, honest. Even if it is somewhat of not true, there's like an honest
approach on why they're writing fiction, or they're not telling the whole truth, like a white lie
kind of. He's saying absolutely not. This is definitely a hoax. But stick around, check out
the show, tell me what you guys think, and his position on Jesus. Who's Paul? What's Paul's
agenda? What are the motives behind why these people are writing these things? You tell me what
you think, don't forget to subscribe and like, and go down in the description to get ahold of his book,
The Jesus Hoax.
We are MythVision. Welcome back, ladies and gentlemen, your host, Derek Lambert, and today I
have a special guest, Dr. David Skirbina. You guys have asked me to bring him on the show.
Some of you said you were very entertained and educated by some of the things he brought to the
table. I will tell you up front. I don't know much about his theories. I saw him in one debate
with what appeared to be a Christian gentleman, and it was actually a really interesting debate.
Now let me give you guys a short bio, and if I jack any words up, no crucifying me please.
That was an old invention by the Romans. Let's keep it where it belongs. Dr. David Skirbina is a
professor of philosophy who has researched and published in a number of fields, including philosophy
of mind, history of philosophy, environmental ethics, philosophy of technology, and philosophy of
religion. He initially earned a master's degree in applied mathematics from the University of
Michigan in 1994. Later went on to earn a PhD in philosophy in 2001 from the University of Bath in
the UK. He has published over two dozen academic articles or book chapters, and he has written
or edited 10 books, including Panpsychism in the West, Mitt Press 2005, revised edition in 2017.
The Metaphysics of Technology, Rutledge, did I pronounce that correctly?
2015, and most recently the Jesus Hoax 2018, which has my interest. I really want to see that.
Dr. Skirbina has taught at a number of prestigious institutions, including Michigan State University,
Eastern Michigan University, the University of Gent, and for 15 years at the University of
Michigan at Dearborn. Regarding the historicity of Jesus, Dr. Skirbina has participated in two
widely viewed debates with a Catholic theologian in 2014 and 18. Dr. Skirbina's work and publications
can be reviewed at his personal website, www.davidskirbina.com. This will be in the description
as well as the next website, and his latest book, The Jesus Hoax, is available at www.jesushoax.com.
Go down in the description, you can find all these details. Welcome to MythVision Podcasts,
Mr. David, or can I call you Dr. Dr. Skirbina? Just David's fine. David, all right. Yes, sir.
Well, thank you for joining me on the show. I want to jump right into this because I was
fascinated at this Jesus is a hoax. I love that you're in this same vein as these other scholars
who question the validity of what we've been told on the historicity of Jesus. What sets you apart
from, say, Dr. Carrier, Dr. Price, the mythicist, and what sets you apart from historicists?
Can you tell us a little bit about your theory and your ideas?
Sure. Yeah, I'll give you a little context.
So, I mean, obviously, most writers on Jesus pretty much are Christians. They're going to
believe in Jesus. That's what they do. That's why they're interested in it. Maybe they're
teaching at a Christian college or they're just professional theologians. So,
yeah, most writers and most professors and most scholars are going to be believers, right? So,
the skeptical community all by itself is a pretty small minority of the writers on Christianity and
Jesus. Most of those guys, though, have some problems. If you look at the books and there's
a handful of books over the last 20 years that have been challenging basic beliefs about Jesus and
asking whether he existed or not, but most of those people have some problems. I mean, they're not
really qualified to write a kind of an authoritative work on the subject. A lot of them are journalists
who this is just their job and they're up writing articles of piecing together things to put a book
out for sale. So, they don't only have a lot of background. They're not really scholars. They
don't really know how to do detailed academic research. So, that's a problem. Some of the guys
are just independent researchers just kind of out there freelancing on their own. Decide they got
some ideas and want to write a skeptical or an atheist critique of Christianity. So, those guys
don't have a lot of substance to their background as well. If you look at the group of people who
are actually really qualified to write on this stuff, it's a very small group. And I guess,
you know, naturally, so I'm going to be biased, right? People who have advanced degrees or PhDs.
I mean, that doesn't tell you everything, but at least it gives you something. You have some kind
of credential. You know how to do research. You know how to construct an argument and you know
how to write. That's pretty much what that's going to tell you. And of the people that are
skeptical of Jesus, it's a very small group. And you just mentioned some of those main names,
right? So, you have Bart Ehrman, Robert Price, Richard Carrier, Raphael Lataster.
There's really only a few, and then I guess myself as well, who really have sort of that
scholarly background I think can really do detailed quality research. So, these guys are
skeptical of the traditional Jesus story. But to me, they all go, they go so far and then they
don't go any farther. They have their boundaries and they won't go beyond those, right? So, I'm
looking at like, like Ehrman. I've talked to these guys, I've talked to Ehrman, I've talked,
I've seen Price a couple of times in person. So, like Bart Ehrman. So, he's a professor at
the University of North Carolina. I assume he's a tenured professor at this point, which gives
him some kind of job security. But of course, in an environment of the university, there's limits
on what you can say. And you can only go so far. You pretty much have to be politically correct.
Even if you're going to criticize Christianity, you still can only go so far. So, I think he's
got limits to what he's going to do. He also, in his case, he's one of these guys who are like a
media darling, right? They really love to talk to him. He shows up on television and radio and
does NPR stories and so forth. So, if you're going to be on the media, the media doesn't put
people on because you're the smartest person. They put you on because you're consistent with
their basic ideological outlook. So, you have to be, again, within the limits that are acceptable
for mass media or they won't talk to you at all. And clearly, Ehrman is. He fits their mold. He's
a critical person about Christianity and Jesus, but he doesn't go too far. So, they like him.
Right, right. I've heard a lot of people who've actually agreed, like, they actually make that
point. Like, why can't he see this? And maybe he does. He just can't go there. But anyway,
sorry to interrupt. I just figured. That's okay. That's fine. I mean, so he's got that thing.
I mean, he doesn't really take a strong personal view. He's written a lot of books out of 30 books
or some crazy thing, right? He's one of these. He's not very committal. He talks about textual
criticism and about documents in the Christian tradition or forgeries, but he only analyzed
that why they're forgeries, not why they were forged. I mean, so there's these deeper questions
that he doesn't really want to go into. So, that's one thing with Ehrman Price.
So, again, he's kind of an interesting guy. I mean, he's a former Baptist minister. He's one
of these converted people as well. I mean, he's kind of agnostic. It's hard to pin him down
when I talk to Price a couple of times. He really moves around on you. He doesn't want to commit
to himself to his own views. He's not a professor. He's pretty much, and this holds for all three
of these guys, they're pretty much in the Jesus business. This is a little phrase I use it in
my book, the Jesus business, right? So, they're basically one-trick ponies. Those guys are
criticizing Jesus. They've got books to write. They want to sell to you. They want to show up in
the media. So, again, I think that limits their freedom to write about, I guess maybe what I could
call the deeper truths about what's going on here. Now, do you think that Dr. Price, for example,
do you think that he... I don't think he has bad motives at all whatsoever. In fact,
I've sat in his living room multiple times. He lived 45 minutes from me in North Carolina.
Wonderful. In fact, he's like a grandpa, so to speak, to me. I agree 100% that he does not want to
you know, let me put it down. And I think he does that because he's not certain. And I go to people
like Dr. Carrier who are at like, they are more like, I'm going to say what I mean and mean what I
say, and then I hear you do the same thing in your debates, which is going to be great when we get to
that point. I just want our audience to follow. You're not trying to attack him. You're just pointing
out that you don't think he's committing where he logically should based on your perception of
what you've seen him bring to the table. But you have no criticisms of the character whatsoever.
You're just saying, hey, I think that there's issues with... I mean, I don't want to judge the
guy's motives. I don't know him that well. And I'm only judging by the handful of writings that I've
seen. So, man, I think he's on the right track. I think Herman's on the right track. Carrier,
these guys are on the right track, but there are some things blocking them, either blocking themselves
or they're just not willing to push beyond these sort of boundaries to talk about things that are
a little bit more controversial. We'll get into those, right? Like, exactly. Yeah, absolutely,
absolutely. No problem. Cool, cool.
It's all right. God's calling, man.
Richard Carrier. So, he's an interesting guy. I was just reading through his recent book on
the historicity of Jesus. So, that's an excellent book. But again, you know, some things with him.
He's got the PhD, but he's never really been in a university setting. He's never been a professor.
He hasn't really published academic articles. He's put out a number of books, but
again, he's like very focused. You know, he's, again, I get the feeling he's one of these guys.
He's really into this Jesus business. I don't know if he does anything else. This is all he does.
I mean, I was looking at his main book just the other day, and I mean, it's,
I mean, he's got interesting angles, right? He talks about Bayes' theorem, right? And he's using
mathematics to try to calculate probabilities, okay? And it's an interesting approach, and I can
sympathize. I'm a mathematics guy too, and I can appreciate the desire to do that, but I just think
it doesn't work in this case. I mean, that's a separate discussion, but you know, basically,
those kind of calculations, probabilistic calculations typically only work for future events.
It's very hard to apply probabilities to past events, and that's really what Richard's trying to do.
And there's, I guess, I got some more fundamental problems. Maybe we'll talk about them a little
bit later, his basic approach. I mean, he's good. He's clear. He commits two things,
but he apparently believes that Jesus is the celestial being, right? Jesus in outer space,
and there's no basis for historicity at all, and I tend to disagree with them. It's not a huge issue,
but I guess the main thing, if I want to summarize for all three of those guys,
what I think that they do not do, which I do, is to really get to the question of motives,
right? So we're all being skeptical about the Jesus story. We really don't buy the miracles.
We don't really think he was the Son of God. We may be not sure whether he existed at all.
So my point, my basic argument is, well, look, somebody, Paul, or the Gospel writers, or all of
them, they constructed a story of a biblical Jesus, Son of God, which we all agree was not real.
And they passed that unreal story off as truth. And to me, that's a lie. They passed off fiction
as fact. They knew what they were doing, and they did it on purpose. It was a deliberate lie.
And the question is, I think even they even sort of touch on this, and, you know,
Herman writes about forgeries and carriers as they constructed these fabricated these documents.
But the question was, why? Who were they? And why did they fabricate these things? That's the
motive behind what was going on. And that really completes the story. And you look at these guys
and you don't see anything. There's no discussion about the motives, about why Paul and the Gospel
writers fabricated these stories. And if you don't mind me adding, I was going to say something
interesting to add to that. I was reading Forged, the basic version, the academic version. I'm not
ready for it yet. But I must admit, he does say in the ancient world, forgeries, regardless if your
motives were supposedly good and honorable, it didn't matter. They frowned upon it and they saw it as a
very bad thing to pretend to write in the name of people. So regardless, Bart Ehrman, Dr. Ehrman,
says exactly what you're saying here, technically it's like, why would you write it? If you know
that they know that's not okay, it's not a good thing, why would you still write it? And I just
did a show with Dr. Bob on this. It's kind of funny as I released these shows. He has a position
where it's more sympathetic that, yeah, some of them are more charlatan and some of them. So I'm
interested to hear this total hoax position anyway.
Yeah, absolutely. I mean, I'm really throwing it on these early writers. And I don't think any of
these guys, I haven't seen anyone short of Nietzsche, if we go back 120 years, none of these recent
guys pin any blame on anybody. And that really sort of drives me crazy, right? I mean, somebody
fabricated a story of a biblical Jesus, son of God, working miracles, raising the dead,
which we would generally say, that's utter nonsense. Somebody fabricated these stories,
but nobody's to blame for anything. If you read Ehrman and Price and Carrier,
nothing that I've seen, maybe you know something, nobody is ever to blame for anything. And to me,
that's an outrageous fact. These guys fabricated, lied through their teeth about these things.
There are a couple other possibilities. We can talk about those later. But basically,
the evidence is they just lied. They constructed these stories, passed them off as truth. They
knew they were false. Why did they lie? What was going on? To me, that's like the real story here.
And none of these three guys, Ehrman and Price or Carrier, will really talk about it at all,
to my knowledge. I haven't actually seen as hardcore as that. I have heard David Fitzgerald
and Dr. Carrier and others openly say, hey, they're obviously duping one another because it's a
competition. Even the gospel writers are competing with one another who has the better story. Luke
craps on everyone else when he says, this is the most accurate version. And yet, even that version,
we know, has its flaws. So it's like, there's something going on. I like where you're taking
this. I'm interested to hearing more. And maybe we can go into some details as to,
because a lot of my audience are already susceptible to this. They see that there's
issues. They see that this isn't historically true. They don't buy in. They're more naturalist in the
sense that they don't buy into the literal miracles and anything like that. So definitely
want to see some more and just wanted to poke in there. Yeah, sure. So I mean, that's to me,
that's kind of the context in the background. And I guess that's really sort of, I think what I'm
bringing in. It's kind of a, yeah, it's this pointed criticism. I'm really getting to the
motives. I don't think it takes a detailed argument to make that case. I think that the basic argument
is pretty simple. It's pretty simply stated, doesn't take a lot of detail, the textual exegesis
or anything. You know, I mean, some of these guys, Richard does a great job. He writes a 700 page
book. And it's, it's like painful to plow through that to really kind of get to the core argument.
What is he really arguing for? You got to jump around and look through bits and pieces.
I wrote this book, Jesus hoax, it's a relatively small book, but it doesn't take much to construct,
to reconstruct the basic argument against Paul and the gospel writers and to really show that
there was a kind of a hoax going on. What was the context? Why did they do it? And
yeah, to me, that's a pretty, it's a pretty straightforward thesis and you can do it in
a pretty small book. I could have made my 700 pages, but what's the point? I wanted to write
a book that everybody could read. It was accessible for everybody, not experts, not scholars,
put the basic argument out there. And that's what I tried to do in my Jesus hoax book.
Let's focus on that. Let's focus on the book today, because I could see more shows coming
into more details as my audience brings me questions. We can talk about those things.
I'll give you some questions to chew on so we know what kind of show we're coming up with. But
I think our audience obviously needs to get the Jesus hoax by Dr. David Scribina, or just David
Scribina. Look it up and go down in the description. You guys can get it. Make sure you get it so that
you guys can follow with his arguments. If you have issues, look, I'm sure you're open to criticism
and you're open to testing this idea. But let's talk about the book, because I want everybody
to get this book. And I myself need to get acquainted with it so that next time I'm able
to follow you with these arguments and really keep track of why you think this is just a flat
out hoax. So let's talk about the motives. Let's go into some maybe points. If you were to present
this to me, I have no presuppositions. I'm a completely naked minded person. I'm not here to
antagonize. I'm absolutely open. And I want you to show me why this is a hoax through and through.
And I'm just going to follow you. Sure, no problem. So basically, it's a two-step
process. I have to show you that the biblical Jesus story is false. And then I have to explain
how we got to the false story becoming accepted as truth. So it's a little bit of a two-step
process. So we'll just walk through it that way. Some of it you're probably familiar with. You've
talked about it with these other guys. But basically, the two fatal flaws of the traditional
story is the problems of evidence and the problem of the chronology of the basic text of the Bible.
And so the first thing, the problem of the evidence, which is basically that there is none,
right? So I think even some people at first glance are a little bit shocked to see this. But
when you look at the time of Jesus, right, so whenever Jesus lived was 3 BC to the year 30,
something like that. So he lived in his lifespan. There was a number of supposedly miraculous
events, right? Beginning with the Star of Bethlehem. And you got the virgin birth,
right? Then you have, well, then we don't know what happens. There's this gap.
Youthful Jesus, we don't know anything about him. Then he starts performing his miracles,
right? So we have the 36 miracles or whatever, 37 miracles of Jesus. And they're documented,
right? Major events. Then he dies. He's resurrected. So that's another miracle. And the sun is dark
and his death and so forth. And you look for confirming evidence, right? So this is one thing
a real historian does. And you say, well, look, if these things actually happened,
there should be some evidence or at least some documentation from that time
that these things actually happened. And you look at the lifespan of Jesus from 3 BC to 30 AD,
and you don't see anything. There's nothing. There's no documents. There's no remains. There's no
evidence. There's no carvings. There's no engravings. There's nothing. Zero. No evidence at all,
right? That confirms that this miraculous son of God came to earth and did what we were told
as he did during the Bible. So that time there's nothing. You go for another 20 years after his
crucifixion. So from the year 30 to the year 50. And again, you have nothing. Absolutely zero,
not a single document. Nothing between the years 30 and 50 that says anything. No mention that Jesus
existed. Did any miracles? Nothing. Zero. So nothing during the 30 years of his life. Nothing
during the next 20 years. Then for the next 20 years, so from the years 50 to 70, you have a
handful of letters, far as we know, only seven or so that are legitimate by one guy, Paul, right?
So he's the first writer. We seem to have actual documents. He seems to be a live,
real person, Paul. We have actual letters that we can date roughly from between 50 and 70 AD.
Sounds like seven letters. The problem is, of course, that Paul is not an unbiased, neutral
third party. He's totally biased. He's got a story he wants to sell you about a resurrected Jesus
and he's going to be died for your sins and so forth. So we have those documents, but they
don't count as evidence because it's not corroborating evidence. It's not a neutral
third party objective confirmation of what we're being told. So you can't count Paul's letters
and if you don't call, don't call Paul's letters, there's no other corroborating evidence from the
years 50 to 70. Nothing. Nothing at all. You go for another 20 years from the years 70 to 90.
So 70 is pretty important. 70 is the year that Paul, roughly Paul is dead by the year 70 or the
late 60s. The first Jewish war against the Romans occurs between 66 and 70. The Jews lose. The
Romans destroyed the temple. This was by the year 70. The Gospel start appearing. The Gospel of
Mark is the first one. It shows up about the year 70. The next two Gospels, Matthew and John.
That's being conservative. 70 is being conservative.
So I'm just throwing out the kind of agenda except for sure, for sure.
I'm just having to poke because that's just what I like to do.
So yeah, Mark shows up around 70. The next two Gospels, Matthew and Luke show up maybe in the
mid 80s. The fourth Gospel, John doesn't show up to the mid 90s. But again, all that is biased
documentation because those guys are telling you the Jesus story. And again, this whole period,
70 to 90, nothing. No independent confirming evidence. Nothing. Zero. Absolutely nothing.
The first non-Christian confirmation that there even is a Christian movement,
as you probably know, is Josephus. So he writes a book, Antiquities of the Jews. It's stated in
the year 93. And he has just a couple sentences about Jesus. They thought he was a Christ and
people following him and so forth. So that's the very first documentation that there even
was a Christian movement is the year 93. After that, you have to jump to something like the year
110. You have Tacitus writes about the Christians, a couple of sentences. You have Pliny's letter to
Trajan. He rethrows in a couple of paragraphs on the Christians. So you have this huge lack
all the way until the 90s or the 110s. Nothing on this Jesus guy, this miracle man who came to
earth and saving humanity and raising the dead and walking on water. Nothing. So it's the lack of
evidence for that whole time. That's the one piece. And the chronology, the actual chronology that I
just ran through is actually sort of a second problem with the whole story. Because you would
expect, again, we're trying to deal with what's reasonable here, if Jesus is the Son of God,
doesn't says what we're told, dies and is risen miraculously risen bodily from the earth.
The obvious thing is his followers would immediately write down every darn word that they
that they could remember that this guy ever said. And they're working together. They're probably
collaborating. They're writing, Oh, I heard him say this and I heard him say that the other day.
And let's what did he say? Let's write that down. You would massively document in great detail
everything that your savior just said, because it's because it's clear. It's a miracle. If there
was any doubt, it was gone. But instead, his followers, his disciples, the 12 disciples,
you know, how much they write, zero, not one word, not one word from his 12 closest followers.
Those guys just they just scattered to the winds, right? Can you imagine how that would work? Your
your follower, Jesus, he dies, he's raised the heaven. And then you talk to your fellow disciples
who said, Wow, that was that was amazing. Well, I guess I got to go back to work now.
And you go back to the farms. And that's, wow, I mean, that's unbelievable. That's actually
that's what's actually happened. Right. Yeah, that's the real deal. Right.
So these guys, his close followers, they scattered to the winds. They don't write anything,
because nothing survived for at least nothing survived from them. And then you're relying on
Paul, right? So Paul comes along. Who's Paul? He's a Jewish elite. He's a member. He's a Pharisee.
All these guys are Jews. The disciples were Jews. Jesus was a whole Jewish story. We can
get in that a little bit later. Paul comes along, never knew Jesus, never saw him, never
talked to him physically, has a vision in his head three years after the crucifixion.
And, you know, has some kind of great insight, a great epiphany about the risen Jesus and converts
on the spot. And then Paul takes it as a mission. He's going to create a church. So the whole early
church, apparently there is there is a kind of early church going on, but Paul really kind of
takes the lead and he wants to be the dominant leader of this new Christian church. There's some
various competing sects that are out there in the world, but he really takes charge. And
yeah, he becomes the dominant leader of this new kind of Christian movement. Right.
But again, it's a very fishy sort of thing. Right. So we're trying to figure out what's
going on. It's again, it's like believing in a miracle. It's a miraculous vision of this risen
Jesus that appears to Paul and he decides he converts. Now he's no longer going to be a Jew.
He's going to be a new person following this Jesus. And he's going to write all these letters
and build up this sort of church. Right. So I don't know. Right. So the whole story again,
it's sort of this very strange sort of fishy tale about what's going on. What's really going on with
Paul? What was he really thinking? What was his real motive? Right. This is sort of getting to the
hoax of the story behind the hoax of Jesus. Right. So, but of course, the context is important.
So I guess if you, if we want to understand what's going on, we have to look at the whole context.
And the context is of a Palestine that was controlled by the Roman Empire.
So we know that the Romans came in and the year 63 BC, they moved into the area of Judea,
Palestine, they took over control. The Jewish tribes were in power. They threw the Jews out,
which is what the Romans always did, didn't kill them. They just pushed them out of power and they
said, Hey, we're in charge. We're part of, it wasn't an empire yet. But basically we're Rome.
You're now subjects of Rome and we're in charge. And that's what they did. Right.
So, we know that the Jewish tribes, being in the former positions of power, yeah, they're
not happy.
You can imagine.
Nobody's going to be happy.
This foreign army comes rolling in, shoves you out of power, probably, you know, pillages
your temples and hauling off wealth back to Rome, and they're like, well, okay.
So the Jewish tribes are really incensed, and we know this, we have some documentation
that they were really, obviously, yeah, hugely angered at this Roman takeover and throwing
them out.
And of course, the Romans are pagans, they don't believe in God, and obviously they're
not Jews.
So, there was active movements within the Jewish groups, the Jewish tribes, to oppose
the Romans, both overtly and covertly.
So there was an overt movement called the zealots.
That was the main group.
There's another group called the Sicarii that were related to them.
But the zealot movement was physically, militarily, by far, supposing the Romans.
So they would murder the individual Roman soldiers and try to assassinate collaborationists,
and they were sort of, you know, violently opposed to the Roman rule.
But of course, that's got limits, right?
You got this huge Roman empire, and you're an individual, small tribe of Jews, you don't
have an army.
There's only so much you can do to oppose this big Roman empire.
So even though some of the fanatics, the zealots, probably opposed the Roman empire, others
probably think, well, look, this is pointless, we're just going to get ourselves killed.
We need something more subtle.
We need a more kind of a clever argument, a clever strategy to use against the Romans,
because we hate those guys.
We want to drive them out of power.
What can we do?
Force won't work, so we need something else.
So we can imagine that this is what's going on, right?
And I'm kind of speculating in my book that this is probably the thinking that was going
on in Paul's mind.
So he knows about the resistance.
He was a member of the Jewish elite.
He surely hated the Romans, wanted to get rid of them.
He hated the Christians.
He had a general contempt for his fellow, they weren't Arabs, they weren't really Palestinians,
but this fellow non-Jews, the Greeks and whoever else, had a general contempt for these people.
They thought they were chosen by God and so forth.
So Paul's got to be thinking, what can we do?
How can we undermine the power of Rome?
It's a powerful entity.
They have this great strength.
They have a kind of this traditional, classic pagan worldview and there's kind of the physical
strength to it and so forth.
So you can imagine how can we get the masses, the people around the non-Jews, how can we
get them away from the Roman side and on our side to be sympathetic, to be resistant,
to maybe even in a sense fight back against the Roman rules, because the Jews couldn't
do it alone.
They needed the masses on their side.
It was clearly not going to work, just that small minority.
They needed the masses to oppose the Romans.
So really I think this is sort of the context that Paul is living in and so my conclusion
was and I explain this in the book that he constructs a story of a Jewish rabbi who is
the son of God and came here to save all of humanity, not just the Jews, all of humanity.
So everybody, not only the Jews, even the non-Jews, should worship this guy, love this
guy, follow this guy, this Jewish rabbi, who sacrificed himself for the cause of humanity
against the evil forces of the world, which of course were the Romans at the time.
So my thesis was, well look, Paul constructed a lie, this is where the hoax started.
Paul, sometime if we can believe the dates, whatever the year 33 or the mid-30s AD, he's
got to construct a lie about a Jew, a miraculous divine Jew who came to earth and sacrificed
himself for humanity.
So if he's constructing a lie, which I think he did, probably the best thing to do is to
base it on a kernel of truth, and I think that's common sense, right?
If today, if today you want to create a lie about something that happened three years ago,
what would you do?
Well you would take a little bit of truth, it's about some actual truth that happened
of event three years ago, and then you would build up around that a story, some kind of
mythology or something that would serve your purpose, but it would make sense to start with
a kernel of truth because if anybody wanted to check your story, they would find these
little kernels of truth and say, well, look, that happened, and this happened, and we can
confirm that.
Right?
I mean, so that's going to make sense.
So my thesis is, probably there was a historical Jesus.
There was a guy, Jewish Rabbi, who was a kind of an agitator, he spoke out on behalf of
the poor and the oppressed, he opposed the Roman rule, and he did it strongly enough
and probably got enough attention and maybe had enough followers that in the end he got
crucified.
So I don't think it's all improbable that there was an actual Jesus who was a physical
guy, a Jewish Rabbi, opposed Roman rule, spoke out on behalf of the masses, the Roman society
was some kind of threat and they crucified him on a cross and he died.
End of story.
But it couldn't have been too dramatic because there were no miracles because we have no
documentation.
If somebody really wrote anything about this guy, he was probably a relatively minor rebel
and you got to imagine on a regular basis the Romans would capture and kill these rebels
against the state.
And that's really what crucifixion was, right?
Crucifixion was a political punishment.
They didn't just crucify anybody, it was political agitators and revolutionaries.
So if in fact this Jesus character was crucified, that's a kind of a confirmation, not really
proof, kind of confirmation that he really was opposing the Roman authorities because
that's who ended up on the cross was the political agitators.
So my thought is, well Paul comes along a few years later and he needs a model.
He says, well, where's this Jewish Rabbi, what kind of story can we construct?
And he's thinking, well look, there was this guy, this Jesus of Nazareth, wherever.
Oh, he was a great teacher.
People loved him and they said he was wonderful.
Maybe they even said he was divine.
Look, he got himself crucified and they even said, maybe there was a story as well.
His body disappeared after the crucifixion and nobody knew where he went.
Well, maybe he disappeared, right?
Maybe he got taken up to heaven or something.
You can imagine little stories based around little facts that might have been associated
with this Jesus character.
So my thought is, well, Paul constructs really a simple lie.
It's a simple hoax.
Well, look, this guy died.
He was an agitator.
He disappeared.
People loved him.
They said he was maybe divinely inspired.
Maybe we can make a story about this Jesus guy because, well, that would really suit
our purposes.
Here's a Jewish Rabbi.
Let's call him divine.
Let's say he was the son of God, just like these demigods of history, right?
You can go back in history hundreds of years at that point.
You can go back to Homer and say, look, there's all these stories about these demigods, these
gods who came to earth, or that they mated with humans, and you got these people running
around who are half human, half God, right?
That's what a demigod is, right?
And that's all.
The Homer, the Iliad is littered with stories about demigods, right?
People running around they're half God and half human because some God came down and
pregnant a woman, and now here's this superhero guy and he's running around the battlefield
fighting the Trojans or wherever, right?
So that's an ancient story by the time of Paul.
So you can imagine, he says, well, look, here's a demigod.
God comes down and pregnates a Jewish woman, creates this great superhero, this Jesus character,
and he's here to save humanity, and well, he gets crucified by the evil Satan power of
Rome, and then he gets taken up to heaven, but this has served a purpose and he saved
all of humanity, and it's a pretty simple story, right?
And he wants, so Paul wants to build a church.
He says, well, and this is really all you see.
If you look at the letters of Paul, I was reviewing them again today.
What you see is basically nothing about the life of Jesus because presumably Paul knew
nothing about the life of Jesus.
He seems to have known that there was a character called Jesus who somehow sacrificed for humanity.
So Paul just creates these little elements.
This was a son of God, died for the benefit of humanity, got risen from death, living
everlastingly up in heaven, and of course Paul says, if we follow this Jesus character,
this Jewish rabbi, well, by golly, we'll be able to live forever too, just like him.
So he makes this nice little story about the story, actual Jesus, probably got killed,
turns him into the son of God, living forever happily in heaven with God.
Of course, it's the Jewish God, the God that we follow is the Jewish God, Jehovah.
It's not the Roman gods.
We're not following Zeus and Hera and Apollo.
We're following Jehovah, the Jewish God.
So all Christians actually believe in the Jewish God.
That's where that came from.
They don't tend to want to talk about it that way, but that's what it was.
And so that's kind of the essence of Paul's story, and that's really all you see.
You look through the seven authentic letters of Paul in the New Testament.
He's just trying to build up a church.
He wants to bring everybody into the church, not just the Jews, but the Gentile masses.
He's going all around the Middle East, including to Rome, trying to build up this church, bring
people in to believe in this Jewish rabbi as a son of God, believe in this everlasting
life, have faith, and then when you die, you'll go to heaven.
And so that's the basic story.
That's all you see when you look at the basic letters.
It's a very simple outline of this theology that Paul constructs, right?
And as far as we know, it's based on no reality at all, except maybe a guy, Jesus, a mortal
who lived and died.
But the theology is purely a construction of Paul, and my view is, well, look, he's
a smart guy.
And that's what he's saying.
The odds that he had a real vision, maybe he had some kind of real hallucinogenic vision
of a divine savior and got this, I mean, that's like, that seems like so crazy.
That's almost impossible, actually.
So my only conclusion, well, look, he did it on purpose.
He created the story.
He had an idea.
His vision was the idea, look, I can take this Jesus guy who just died a few years ago.
I'll turn him into son of God.
I can make a religion out of this thing.
I can get people to believe in him.
And that's actually going to serve to the benefit of the Jews, because it's going to
bring people onto the side of, you're worshiping a Jewish rabbi, you're believing in the Jewish
God, and you're taking people away from the Roman pantheon, the pagan Romans.
You're getting people to believe in afterlife is important, not this life, right?
So the Romans in general didn't have any concept of living in afterlife.
The Romans were very earthly, earthbound, in a sense.
So in many senses, this new little theology that Paul constructs is really building opposition
to Rome.
He's getting ideologically away from Rome, and he's preparing the people to, in a sense,
rebel against the Romans, both spiritually and intellectually, and maybe even physically.
There are several passages, and if we get some time, we can talk through them, and I'll
just give you some examples, where they really started these little clues in Paul's letters,
where he's trying to promote resistance.
He wants people to resist and think in terms of opposition and rebellion and revolution
against what?
Against the ruling power.
Well, that was the Roman Empire.
That's all it can be, right?
So a few questions, different ideas that pop up.
I want to ask first, before I get to the Romans in Rome, because in the book of Romans, it
seems like he's saying follow Rome, right?
So before we get to that, and be it obedient to your masters and this idea, I want to talk
about this Jesus character, and this rabbi that may or may not have actually existed,
but fits this perfect template, right?
It seems like if you take a narrative that Paul is really talking about a guy who really
exists, he's speaking in some of the authentic Pauline letters to people who already are
following this Jesus guy, or even teaching their own version of what he taught.
So technically, he might be competing with people who really were taught by the guy on
earth, maybe, James, Peter, I don't know how you view them, or what you think of them.
But that's what I wanted to ask you, because if Peter and James, let's say, really did
know the earthly rabbi Jesus, and they seem according to Paul, because all we have is
Paul's writings unless you think the book of James was really written by James, or Peter
was really written by Peter, and scholars usually push that stuff late.
What do you do with their understanding of they had a Jesus they worshipped?
Did they view this rabbi and actually follow him and his teaching and say, yeah, this is
the Messiah, and then Paul enhanced a version of this already existing teaching by this
Jesus guy who died, and they thought, really, Rose again?
What do you think?
Well, we don't have any writings by these guys who knew Jesus, do we?
I mean, all we have is Paul's letters.
We have the Gospel writers who wrote decades after the crucifixion.
We don't know who the Gospel writers were.
There might have been multiple authors to some of the Gospels.
As far as we know, none of those guys actually knew Jesus.
I mean, there's some claim that John was the apostle John, and Matthew was the apostle Matthew
or something.
But, I mean, the stories don't make any sense, right?
When you look at how the Gospels are constructed, it doesn't make sense that these documents
would have waited decades to appear, if these were the actual people who knew Jesus, why
these documents written decades afterwards, right?
Again, if you had first-hand knowledge of a guy who you thought was the Son of God, you
would have written immediately.
We would have had several documents published, documented in the year 33, but by the mid-30s,
certainly, when soon after the crucifixion.
So I don't think we get much help, because we don't really have the documentation from
anybody who was around at that time.
Well, looking at Paul, Paul's talking in Galatians, for example, about James and Peter, Cephas.
Peter and James are obviously in this same type of Messianic belief system it appears.
I think that that's what it seems to be pointing at, if we look at it this way.
Peter and James seem to be part of a similar Jesus movement.
It's probably different, though, because he clearly says anyone who teaches another
gospel, let him be a curse, anathema, but I'm thinking, if Paul's arguing with people
and they have a competing Jesus story, do you think he hijacked and maybe already existing
not so much like Pauline's Jesus story and saying, I'm going to jump on this movement
and make this movement my own, so to speak?
Yeah. Well, right. Well, so first of all, nothing of these other sex exists, so we don't
really know. We're just guessing. We're having to guess from what Paul said about them, that
there was some disagreement, right? So that's one problem. You can imagine that Paul didn't
like these versions, because they either didn't have this risen to heaven Jesus. Probably,
you can guess, probably, and I think Carrier was right when he talks about this, Paul's
main innovation is he probably wants to go to the non-Jews. He wants to bring the Gentiles
under the big tent of Christianity. I'm guessing that maybe these competing sex where they
were Jewish-only sex, if they were there, maybe they were based on just the human Jesus.
Maybe they sort of, you know, it was like a celebrity worship kind of thing, and he was
a very earthly guy, and maybe even he was the Messiah, right? The Messiah was an earthly,
like a general. The Jewish version of a Messiah was like a general who's going to come to
earth, and he's going to be a great power, and he's going to lead us back to victory.
So maybe these other competing sex were very earthbound, focused on just the Jews, kind
of a, yeah, you know, arguing for a Jewish greatness or something. And you can imagine
Paul thinking, well, that's not cosmic enough. That's not universal enough. That's not going
to win us over, because it's not going to bring in the masses. We need the masses to
come in, and you can imagine, in fact, that's exactly what Paul says, right? Paul says, well,
look, I'm the apostle to the Gentiles. He says this more than once. I'm going to the
non-Jews, and I'm going to convert them. So you can imagine that that was probably a unique
thing, that the other Jews didn't want to do that. We don't want to mess with the Gentiles.
Those people are stupid ignorant pagans. So you can imagine that maybe that was the root
of the disagreement. And Paul said, look, we got to bring the masses in. We can't do that
by converting them to become Jews, because they don't want to do that. But if we have
a son of God who's working miracles and to give them eternal life, well, maybe that
would work. Is it fair to say the audience that Paul's going after, and I just want to
ask, because look, this is not a criticism show. I just like to poke with you to figure
this stuff out together. Is it possible that, because universalizing and just painting a
brush say to anyone and everyone, I have a feeling that most people who are probably
going to be susceptible to Paul's teachings are probably either slaves of Rome, or they
might be like you said earlier, just Arabic people, people that may not be Jews themselves,
but are not Romans necessarily. So there's probably an identity when it says everyone,
he's going for the lowly, the last shall be first concepts that we see that are Pauline.
I think those are Pauline even in the Gospels. We have Pauline theology into the Gospels,
which a lot of scholars say. But do you think that those are the people they're trying to
get, or the people that are more susceptible, that aren't necessarily Roman in nature, and
then had to follow up questions?
Yeah, well, yeah, of course. That's who he's going for. He's in the Middle East. There
are really very few Romans there. You've got the Roman soldiers who are in charge. All
the traditional Roman citizens, they're back in Rome. That's like 10,000 miles away back
then. You couldn't hop on a plane and be in Rome. That's like forever away. So all he
is, he's got his small group, the minority of the Jews who are formerly in charge in
Judea, and the masses, which were the Arabs, or they call them the Greeks. They weren't
Romans, right? So I think that's the target audience. That's who he's going for. Maybe
ultimately we have reason to think that Paul actually went to Rome as well. And maybe in
the end he did try to convert some real Romans, but that would not have been the original
thought. The original thought is we need these people around us, the non-Jews around us.
That's who we need to get to. And those are generally poor, impoverished, superstitious
people. We need to get them on our side and away from the Roman powers. I think that was
his primary goal.
This is an interesting thing because I actually entertain a Roman provenance theory on my
channel where the Roman provenance theory actually says Paul is actually pro-Roman.
And that what he's doing is he's actually getting money by collabing, so to speak, with
a Roman ideology of let's get along with our neighbors because the Romans were sick and
tired of the monotheistic, hardcore, separatist Jewish ideas. And Paul's saying, look, let's
get rid of Torah. Let's get rid of these ideas and somehow connect. I could see, though, even
in your theory, even if Roman... Let's set that theory aside. I just wanted to point
that out that this is something my channel also entertains. I could see why Torah would
need to come down if you're going to bring in these Arabs or these Greeks or people that
are not Rome but are considered Gentiles outside of Israel.
Exactly. Well, that's what Paul says more than once. He says, well, look, Jesus replaced
the Torah. We don't talk about the law anymore. He talks about the law several times in his
letters. The law, that was old. Now Jesus came. Now we're working on Jesus and he works
for everybody. So yeah, that's what he wants. But again, the whole ideology of Paul and the
Christians is completely anti-Roman. I mean, it's crazy to say that this is somehow pro-Roman.
There's a few passages in there. We can talk about those later. A few passages that sound
like, okay, he's being compatible with Rome. To me, those are just cover passages that
are like because outright insurrectionists tended to get their heads chopped off. So
you wanted to resist, but you couldn't be too explicit. You had to throw a bow under
the authorities. Otherwise, they tend to throw you up on a cross and then you're dead. So
Paul doesn't want that to happen. He's a cleverer than that. He wants to have a subtle resistance
through his ideology that will sort of bring the people to his side, bring them away from
the Romans. And I think he does a great job. I mean, this is a great story that he constructs.
Well, look, it's still got a grip on us today. It's crazy. But let me ask you this. Okay,
because I like where we're heading with this discussion. This is interesting. Paul keeps
getting attacked by Jewish people. I mean, he's getting slammed left and right with what
appeared to be people of the law, people of circumcision. He's avoiding them like the
plague now, or at least it appears every time. I mean, he's been stoned to death and left
for dead and somehow miraculously survives, which is a huge red flag to me or prayed over
their shadows or handkerchiefs can heal people. I don't even want to get in all that stuff.
I'm just saying Paul's got a lot of Jews after him that aren't happy. Even James, if you
take Paul's letters and Galatians at face value, it appears James sending spies to check out
what Paul's up to. And if Paul's doing this and they have these issues, do you think there
could be some? How do I put this? Paul's even breaking away. Not only is he trying to unite
against Rome, according to what you're saying, but he's also breaking away from an old tradition
that's not going to unite the masses. So he's saying, screw your old ideas, you're going
to get us killed. And I'm going to keep teaching against what you're saying, but I'm also trying
to create a universal way of bringing in these slaves and all these people, probably for money
reasons too, I would suspect. I mean, Paul's probably in it for a lot of reasons, more than
just political. I think you might be getting money. What do you think?
Well, could be. I guess that's again, that's a good question, right? This really question
about motives, right? What was Paul really thinking? Why would he do this? I mean, some
people have argued, well, Paul must have been sincere. He must have been authentic. He was
putting himself at bodily harm. He could have gotten killed at any time, either by his fellow
Jews or by the Romans, right? So, well, he must have been sincere. He must have had a
real vision of Jesus because why would he do this? I mean, it's not obviously becoming
a millionaire because of it. There's no real evidence that he's really making money from
this. Why would he do this, right? And I think you have to say, well, look, he didn't just
like woke up one day and said, I think I'll start a religion just because I want to be
the king of this new religion or something. I mean, that doesn't make any sense. He's
got to have a real driving motive. And when you look at the Jewish elite, you say, well,
what was their driving motive? And that was to get rid of the Romans. That was the number
one motive. We got to get these Romans out of here. We hate those guys. They threw us out of
power. They're plundering our temple. They destroyed our temple by the year 70. Paul didn't
know this because it was before, after his time. But the real driving force was this hatred
against the Romans. And so, to me, that's the real motive force that causes him to take on both
the Romans and his fellow Jewish elite. And I write about this in my book. He really had two
sets of enemies. He's fighting against the Romans and his fellow Jews. But he's like, I want to
get rid of the Romans. I don't care about my fellow Jews. I need to get to the masses. And I can only
do that with a universal Jesus story. That's the only thing that makes sense.
Do you think in places where he goes out there, do you think he got any approval at all to go
preach to the Gentiles? And that's why he says he is the apostle to the Gentiles. Do you think
that they maybe gave him a stamp and said, you know what? At some point, they gave him approval
with a certain kind of message. And he probably did some things with his own message that they
weren't cool with. Because I've heard this in the historical sense. He comes back to James,
according to the book of Acts, they said. And they're like, are you really teaching these
things? Which I think were anti-Torah. And he tells them, no, no, I'm cool. I'm doing what you
guys are cool with and even pays like a temple fee or something to cover four men's. What do you
think? Yeah. So, well, Paul is a self-professed apostle to the Gentiles. Peter is the apostle to
the Jews. So you can imagine Paul doesn't really want to make the Jews an enemy. He says, well,
look, we need to go talk to these priests and we need to calm them down. Say, look, this is really
in the best interest of the Jews. If we can use this to get rid of the Romans, we can undermine,
get the masses on our side, somehow subvert the Roman ideology, maybe ultimately drive them out,
right? This is ultimately in our interest. So you can imagine maybe Peter is taking that message
back to the Jewish elite. So look, this is ultimately in our own best interest. And Paul,
meantime, is preaching this Christian story, which he himself does not believe. That's a key point.
That's what I want to poke with you. Paul does not believe this. He's pushing the story that he
does not believe to the masses because it's in his own best interest. That's my thesis.
Do you think that the, like, I guess you'd say, and there's no way to know, I just want to ask
your opinion, do you think that he told himself that this is an allegory in his head somehow?
He created a fictitious allegory and made it morally reasonable so he could accept his own
lie in a sense and say, hey, I'm going to go around teaching this and others bought it as
actual fact. Or do you think he just flat out lied and held to the lie the whole time?
Flat out lie. I have no reason to believe otherwise. Flat out lie. He knew every word of
it was false. He constructed the story and he was a master liar. I mean, this is what I had a
section in my book. Paul is a master liar. One of the champions of history because he would pitch
this stuff absolutely like it's true, unconditionally true. And I cannot believe he believed a word of
it. So to me, it's just a flat out bald face lie and he just lied through his teeth.
How many times does he say he's not a liar? Exactly. It is an interesting point that you're
making. I believe I do not lie, right? Who's going to say I do not lie except the master
liar who's like worried about his blown and his cover, right? I'll tell you who the master of
liars are, the chief of all centers. You know, this is interesting. I mean, I'd love to have a
discussion and who knows if we can get like even down the road like a debate even or something,
a light one, of course. It doesn't have to be. I'm big into discussions because debates usually
is like a football game. I go in believing in my team and you go in believing in yours.
It's rare you get people to switch sides and really get convinced based off just that. I think
mutual discussions would be interesting to have two parties. One also agrees
that Paul's obviously creating a narrative, creating theology, but he believes that he's
working for Rome and you're actually saying he's working against Rome, utilizing his
pretty much his citizens card. He's utilizing all these things to his advantage to try and
help his people overtake or overcome Rome. And this other party is saying, no, Paul's probably
an agent for Rome. He's probably infiltrating a Jewish sect, etc. I just wanted to say that on
air. Maybe down the road, we can have a discussion between both parties where you guys can kind of
hash out your arguments and why and who knows at the end of the day. You never know what could be.
Well, no, it's interesting because they'll say, well, look, all these pro-Roman passages in the
body, pro-Roman passages in Paul. And when you look, what are they actually? There's two or three
and there's two or three dozen that are sort of these illusions to resistance and rebellion
and fighting against the evil powers and so forth. I mean, you see that over and over, I've
documented at least two dozen in the letters of Paul. He's talking about Jesus delivers us from
the wrath to come and we need to be freed from the bondage of the evil spirits and we need to
turn from Satan to God. Well, who is Satan? Who's the great evil? It's the Romans. It's the emperor.
That's the Satan of the world. You're not going to say, turn away from the emperor because that'll
get you killed, but you might talk about the evil powers that be in the world. So God is going to
crush Satan. The rulers are doomed to pass away, right? We need to destroy every ruler. We need
to destroy the worldly powers. Put on the whole armor of God. I mean, he's using these militaristic
terms to kind of steal the masses against the evil powers, right? I mean, that's the Romans.
So there's multiple passages that really sort of suggest there's this kind of resistance going on,
a little message of resistance and rebellion, and that can only be against the Romans. And there's
only literally two or three passages in Paul where he's like, yeah, okay, Caesar, you know,
render to Caesar. I mean, that's not even in Paul, right? Pay your tax. Do you think those were
like purposely placed there as like a sly way of trying to cover their butt, make them not look so
anti-Roman? Or do you think later interpolations, what do you think? No, I think he put those in
there. He probably put those in as sort of little clever illusions to we need to gear up for battle.
We need to be prepared to fight, fight against the pagan idols. He put as much resistance talk as he
could in the letters that would not get himself or his recipients killed. So he doesn't want the
Romans to come in and crucify everybody. He needs to keep the movement going, but he's going to put
this sort of resistance talk in there. And I have to believe it's deliberate. There's too many cases
where you get this little talk about the armor of God and destroying Satan and destroying the
worldly powers. There's too many of those in there. It had to be something that he did on a
deliberate basis to sort of steal his group against the Romans. So that was sort of the explicit part.
And then there's the whole ideology, which was anti-Roman. The whole ideology of a risen Jesus,
the Jewish rabbi, the Jewish God, the salvation and the afterlife. The whole ideology was anti-Roman.
So between the ideology and the kind of the stealing the masses for this resistance is like
he's hitting on a couple of different cylinders here. So okay, this is all in your book, correct?
Yes, exactly. Okay, so what I'm going to ask my audience to do is go check out the book. If you
have your criticisms, bring them. If you already have an idea, you know, feel free because we're
going to definitely have to do more and probe into this on a next show where we can have actual
questions for you. And I have a question just throwing it out there. What if, and I've heard
this said because other people interpret things different and the way they define terms. For
example, the Satan, the evil one, those who were possessed by Satan, Jesus constantly talks about
these Jewish people and he's like coming at them. At the same time, you get this what appears to
me to be a rebel against Rome underlying theme that if Jesus existed, in my opinion, he would
probably fit into the characteristic of a rebel who's fighting Rome like we talked about. That
would be the realistic sense. He wasn't being crucified for being this nice guy the Gospels
portray him as. However, the Gospels also like point at these Israelites, these people, as if
you are the Satan, you guys are children of the devil, blah, blah, blah, blah. Is that devil that
they're children of Rome that they're poking at in your view? No, right. So again, the problem
is they have this persistent opposition from the Jewish elite. Right. So it's like, you know,
and you can imagine at some point it's really becoming very personal. You can imagine that
the Gospel writers, which were probably almost certainly Jews, and they're saying to their
fellow Jewish elite, why are you fighting us? You guys are continuing to work against us. You're
undermining us. You know, you guys have you're killing our story. You're killing our Jesus story
for crying out loud, right? Right. So you can imagine it must have gotten very personal right
there. They're being constantly persecuted by these Jewish elite who don't believe the Christian
story. They think it's sheer nonsense. That's, you know, and so the Christians probably spent
decades literally fighting against their own fellow Jews and sort of they had the larger battle
of fighting against the Romans. That must have been a terrible sort of a two front war that they
were going on. And you can imagine at some point, somebody's going to say, look, even the Jews are
the sons of the devils, children of the devils. And this is what you see. There's a couple passages
in the Gospels. You know, these children of the devil, they won't learn. They won't follow. They
won't believe that this story really is going to work. Right. So yeah, that's kind of my thesis.
That's pretty interesting. I've never heard of it this way because, you know, I've been hearing
a lot of pro-Roman at the same time. I know that there's definitely that opposition to Rome.
What made sense to me was how these letters existed and made it through and were promoted.
You know, eventually adopted by Rome itself made me think, okay, why would they adopt something
that's so against them being, you know, evil and stuff like that? So what do you think happened?
But that takes centuries, right? I mean, it takes a very slow, slow building process, right? And it
slowly permeates the obviously the whole Roman Empire. Eventually, right? So you get to what,
the year 312 in Constantine, the emperor, he converts, he's convinced of the story. And then
it's the year 380. And then Theodosius decides he's going to make it the religion of the empire,
right? So yeah, I mean, it's a crazy story where Paul's, you know, concocted theology
eventually convinces even the emperors and becomes the ideology of the whole Roman Empire.
So it's a fantastic success story for Paul and his buddies. I mean, shoot, they converted the
whole Romans. And then what happens, Derek? Then the Roman Empire collapses. And that's
due to Christianity. Seriously, they convert to Christianity and then boom, they're down. Yeah.
Literally within 15 years, 380 Theodosius makes it the official religion of Rome, 395 Roman Empire
splits in half and the classic half collapses. So this is the sign of decay, right? Here's the
ultimate decay right at the very end of this, this corrupt, this crumbling. And then they say,
oh, yes, we believe in Jesus and they go down. There shall be last. So let me ask you is I want
to probe back to mythicism for a second and just kind of ask you what, because we talk about details
and we talked about them as abstract, like if this is the case, if that is, what do you definitively
think we can know about Jesus? What are you pretty because you I mean, I know you're kind of like,
well, it's possible he didn't exist. At least you leave the door open that this could be all
concocted somehow. But what do you what convinces you personally, that there was a real guy named
Jesus who actually existed? Was it this tacitist statement? Was it the Josephus? No, no, it's
simply a pragmatic matter that the best way to create a lie is to use a kernel of truth. Okay.
And Paul created the lie. And what's he going to do? He was within a few years of a kernel of
truth. A Jesus, a rabbi who got crucified. So to me, that's that's the most compelling evidence.
Paul needed a kernel of truth because he's an expert liar. You don't make lies about a whole
cloth. You take a little kernel of truth. And maybe some people around remember this guy. And
yeah, I remember I saw that Jesus guy and I saw him crucified. So people around who actually know
this guy. Yeah, I saw him crucified. Yeah, his body did disappear. We don't know where it went.
Little kernels of truth that Paul could use to create this salvation story about Jesus who
rose to heaven. To me, that's the single most persuasive evidence. And there's nothing else.
We have no evidence whatsoever other than that, that there was a historical Jesus. But to me,
that's a pretty strong argument. If I wanted to create a lie or you wanted to create a lie today,
you would take a kernel of truth and build your lie around it. Well, that makes perfect sense.
Probably there was a Jesus probably got himself killed. And that's the kernel of truth.
So here's some speculation. I want to probe with you in the crucifixion resurrection. Do you think
there were already existing people that do believe like the cognitive dissonance position
that like Dr. Airman or even Rabbi Tovia Singer that I recently interviewed believes that there
were women followers who had like this great attachment to this teacher had appeared to have
experienced him after he died, right? So there's probably these tales running around. And he harped
on an already like already rumor about this guy really still being alive. And they he said,
let me really harp on this and made it something. Or what do you think? Yeah, certainly could be,
right? He maybe there were stories, you know, people are still talking, they can still talk to
Jesus. He's dead. I saw him in a dream the other day. You can imagine little stories floating
around the Judea at the time. So maybe Paul is picking up on some of these things. Maybe
maybe the maybe these women aren't just crazy women who are just having some nightmares.
Maybe he really does exist. Maybe you can imagine maybe something like that was a trigger.
Oh, there really is a Jesus. He really did survive death. Well, maybe he can be a model for
everybody who could survive death. You can imagine that happening very quickly in Paul's mind. And
yeah, I have no no no problem believing those kind of things. What makes you different from
Dr. Airman's position? If you don't mind me asking like what what makes your position different?
Because he he does take a historical approach. He believes this guy actually was apocalyptic
in nature and stuff. What is yours that's different from him? I don't think he gets the
motives at all. He has no concept of a hoax. I think he probably believes Paul was completely
it's sincere, completely sincere in his beliefs. He puts no blame on anybody doesn't blame the
Jews for an attack against the Romans. I think Airman is typically he doesn't want to blame
anybody. Nobody's at fault. Nobody had any malicious intent. Everybody's just straight
up straight shooters, which is pure bullshit. That's total nonsense. So but I think that's
as far as I can tell that's Airman's view. I take everybody at face value. Yep. Everybody's
sort of just honest straight shooters to me. That's that's the height of gullibility.
And that's what I would drill Airman on if I could if I could talk to him or debate him like
what what makes you think that these guys are straight up shooters. We have every believes
reason to believe that they were malicious liars. Why do you why do you take them at face value?
You have no reason to do that. Interesting. Yeah. So we need to get the Jesus hoax, ladies and
gentlemen, that's down in the description. Make sure you guys check it out. I want you guys to
really look at this and bring your criticisms. You know, I know myth vision podcast fans. They're
they're like going to definitely probe in and they're going to see this. They're going to take
it to other guys and everybody's going to want to poke at it. But that's fine. That's what it's
all about because I suspect just like most scholars, that's what we want. We want communication. We
want interaction. We want people to test our stuff out. David Skirbina. Thank you for joining
me on this show. Do you have any closing statements you'd like to make to the audience? Maybe about
the book, something else that you'd like to mention prior to the show ending?
No, nothing. I mean, we really cover the story. I love to have people read the book. Love to have
the comments. Like you say, criticism. So totally welcome. Would love to hear that. Love to do a
follow up show if we can do a little debate or talk to people live. That would be fantastic. Love
to answer questions. So whatever we can do, I'd be happy to participate. That's awesome. Thank you.
Yeah, this was a new perspective for me, ladies and gentlemen. And I'm just going to keep adding
notes. You guys know, I'm like kind of like Dr. Bob where I keep bringing information on and never
really say with certainty what is at the same time, I do have speculations. I do think let me keep
gathering information because I don't have enough information at this moment for me to say everybody's
wrong or somebody's right or whatever. So I hope you guys keep journeying with me. I mention this
because on my other channel, I have a recovery channel, right? When I do a video on something
medically related, I'm usually interviewing a doctor. This is someone with a PhD in the field
of some some type of medically related topic. And then I get the comments, right? There's 100
comments that come down. And it's weird. Everybody's a medical professional. And they all know better
than the doctor. And so for me, I'm like, Oh, wow, this is amazing. It's fun. It's funny. You get to
watch humans in action and how they are. Well, the same thing happens on myth vision. Everyone has
a position. They come on and and I expect that's going to happen on this video as well.
That I want to try and bring some of the stuff to the table. I'm going to remain as neutral as
possible as a host. And maybe next time we'll have some criticisms that we can bring and test
some of these ideas out. We'll play it by ear. We'll just go from there. But thank you for joining
me. And I hope to see you again next time. For sure. Thank you. Appreciate it. It was great
discussion. Yes, sir. Thank you. We are myth vision
