Dr. Dennis R. McDonald has been dealing with memesis criticism, the idea that the New Testament
Gospel authors knew and were utilizing the Greek epic literature from the Greco-Roman
world to develop their Jesus story in their Gospels.
And no one's better at it than Dennis.
So I had a conversation with Paula Fredrickson and watched this as it unfolds.
Let me know what you think about it and thank you to everyone who made this possible.
We just talked about Robin Faith Walsh.
I had to make the exciting claim that, well, not claim, but statement that Bart Ehrman
thinks that she's on the right track.
Even if he might take more into certain directions of some things, he thinks that she's on the
right track.
Dennis McDonald thinks she's on the right track.
You think that there's something going on here, right?
And Dennis, he did tell me, and he hopes that the guild, he says, usually things don't change
till scholars die, that's how it is.
Were there steps there's hope?
When there's death, there's hope.
But his work in Minesis criticism pertaining to including the Greek epics, he's obviously
on board with the Hebrew Bible and he thinks that scholars have kind of like this one stop
shop focus only on the Hebrew Bible.
And I get why.
Thus sayeth the Lord, or it is written and it's the Old Testament after all, right?
He's not, he's obviously 100% in line with that.
He thinks that there may be eclectic things going on as well.
We see composite quotations from the Bible, like they'll quote something, but really it's
like from this other prophet and you're like, it's a composition of multiple prophets being
quoted, which gets down to the weeds, sorry to the audience.
But it's fun to learn these things.
But he also thinks that there's, that Homer underlies this literature, right, that we're
talking about with Robin, they're writing in a way, probably a bad word to put this in
the genre, but kind of like origin myths or kind of like their own little epics.
And Mark ends kind of like a tragedy, right?
So you kind of wonder is Dennis, have you read any of his work?
Yes, of course.
And also, if you, again, draw the camera back, the foundation of Greek education was Homer
and Euripides.
I mean, that's where you, I'm not saying everybody read all of the Iliad, but you would get,
you know, tablespoons of Homer to begin to memorize and to unpack grammatically and so
on.
And look, it's more the Iliad than the Odyssey, but Axe is Odyssey for Christians, right?
It's a road trip movie.
I love it, yeah.
And this idea of the tragic hero in the empty tomb is very, very dramatic.
It's very dramatic in Mark, to end that way.
Whoever added on those extra verses to get it in line with the other Gospels was just
really missing the point because it's ending with the empty tomb and the frightened women
is so powerful.
That's dramatic.
And again, Greek drama would have been something, if anybody's literate in Greek, and Paul certainly
is, they would have passed through, they would have passed through that type of education.
So you're not closed off to Greek mimesis.
I mean, I'm not saying you buy all of it, okay?
Because even me and Dennis, we talk and he's like, I hope before I die, you know?
But it's probably gonna be after a long time after I'm gone before anyone's actually accepting
this, you know, big spoonfuls of what I'm saying.
But he's like, I know that a lot of the things I'll say are weaker than other things.
But he uses this one example, and I'll just throw it at you if you haven't heard it, the
Eurycleia one, that the anointing of the feet of the woman, and they all are like, you know,
they don't know who he is in Mark.
And this is what really made me think he's onto something here.
I don't know why.
You tell me if I'm wrong here.
I might be, I don't know.
I don't know.
Well, I just, I just want to throw the story is like, what makes my fire kindle?
I'll throw it at you.
You tell me what you think of this.
I can honestly say I don't know, because that's not an angle of scholarship I live in, right?
And if I said any more than that, I wouldn't be honest.
And I respect that.
And he, it's better than not like, Oh, I know he's wrong than it is to say, I don't know.
I don't know.
It's a beautiful thing.
If you take into consideration the woman that suckled Odysseus and its birth and he, and
she doesn't recognize him, but then she does by the scar on his heel and, oh, master, it's
you.
And she's like washing his feet while this woman's washing Jesus' feet.
And Jesus makes his proclamation that wherever my story, my gospel is being said, let this
woman let it be told far and wide, the Greek word is far and wide here to describe like,
make sure this is told everywhere.
Notice the differences too, though.
You're saying that it's the washing of Jesus' feet that implies her recognition of who Jesus
is in Odysseus.
It's the scar on his leg.
It's not the bathing of the feet.
That's the moment of recognition.
Oh, yeah.
There's differences for sure.
Yeah.
I'm just saying that.
And people bathe, wash feet all the time in antiquity.
Right.
Right.
I just thought it was interesting that the woman's name is Euryclia in the Odysseus
story, which means in Greek, far and wide.
And this is what Dennis was pointing out.
Her name means far and wide, and she's the one washing Odysseus' feet.
And then Jesus says this thing where he's like, what am I gospel, that's far and wide.
And so, you know, whether you think it's mimesis from like, I'm looking at a text and I'm
copying, or if it's just they're so bathed in this literature and the stories that they're
like, Jesus is better than Odysseus.
Well, I mean, what functions like that in our culture is pop music, right?
I don't have to have been, we don't have to both be listening to Bob Dylan to think
you don't need a weatherman to know where the wind blows, right?
It's in, it's in the air, phrases like that.
So that's, it's, it's possible.
Yeah.
It's the best I can do.
That's the best.
Well, I'm thankful that you gave me a chance because, yeah, I think that it's encouraging
to hear people are trying to understand different angles on this stuff, whether you agree or
don't. So thank you so much.
If we all agreed, it would be a very boring business.
There's no danger of that, fortunately.
Thank you, Paula.
Thank you.
Thank you to those who contributed in the GoFundMe on making this trip possible for these
12 recordings with Paula Fredrickson.
I want to give a special shout out to you.
Your names are chiseled in history.
I also want to thank everybody who has become a patron of MythVision, making stuff
like this possible, taking academic work that is hiding behind all of these
scholarships, all of these colleges and making it public, public knowledge for
everybody to learn.
