The
Celestial Code of Scripture are many of the stories we find within the Bible found in
the heavens. Do the stars and the constellations tell us the stories that we find within the
Bible, but also an ancient Mesopotamian myth? Marduk and the Enuma Elish, and all of the
different deities in their stories, the flood account, the Garden of Eden, Jonah swallowed
by a fish, Samson killing a thousand men with the jawbone of an ass, or even Jesus walking
on water. Let me know what you think of this episode. I had a blast as he dived deep in
into this whole celestial code.
Hi, my name is John McHugh. I'm a Utah archaeologist, a licensed Utah archaeologist. I have a specialty
in archaeoastronomy, especially as it relates to the Bible and the Koran. I have a reading
knowledge of several ancient languages, including Akkadian, biblical Hebrew, Greek, Koranic
Arabic, and Ugridic. I enjoy trying to expose how some of the myths from the Bible and the
Koran appear to have correlates as pictures in the ancient Mesopotamian constellations.
Thank you so much, John McHugh, for joining me today. Tell us about this wonderful book
and your presentation.
Yes, well, thank you for having me on, Derek. I love MythVision, and I'm a fan, and I've
gotten many other people to join in and become fans of your show. So the book I've written
is the product of about 20, almost two decades of research. It's called The Celestial Code
of Scripture, and the subtitle is The Astral Cypher Underlying the Miracle Stories of the
Bible and the Koran. So very simply, if you had to just say what does the book show, what's
the discovery? The discovery is that the iconic miracle stories that you remember reading
from Sunday school or from church or from the synagogue or from the mosque that you've
read in the Bible and the Koran, they correspond to pictures or tableaux in the oldest constellation
lists from Mesopotamia, and they're written in Keneiform writing, which is it's using
a stylus to inscribe Keneiform signs on a clay tablet. So it's not like papyrus or anything
like that. You're writing in clay. So what the book shows, and I'm just giving you the
highlights stories here, but so for instance, like the Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden
story, that can be traced to a picture in the ancient Mesopotamian constellation, Noah's
flood and our same thing. You can see a picture of this story in the ancient night sky. Samson's
slaughter of a thousand men with a donkey's jawbone, which sounds kind of absurd in a sense.
How do you use a jawbone as a weapon to kill a thousand armed men, armed soldiers? Again,
there's a picture of it in the stars. Jonah's three day confinement in the belly of a giant
fish in Hebrew and in a sea serpent in Greek. And I'll go into that in that section. Jesus's
virgin birth and Jesus's sea walk, they're both visible as pictures in the ancient Mesopotamian
constellations. The Islamic claim, like right out of the Quran, it says that the book itself,
the Quran, the recital was based, is founded on a celestial tablet in heaven. I can show you
where that tablet is. And Muhammad's encounter with the angel Gabriel, that's described in the book.
So if I may just move in to talking about, we all know that the Greek constellations
were all pretty much familiar with. You've read about the 48 ancient constellations,
and anyone who's done any reading about those constellations know that they originated in
Mesopotamia. And they were written in the Keneiform text in these clay tablets, these clay
Keneiform tablets. They're typically written in a language called Akkadian, which is,
it's just Babylonian and Syrian. Akkadian, the southern dialect is Babylonian. The northern
dialect is Assyrian. The older script is Sumerian. And we'll talk about that in a second. But
one of the things that's really intriguing, and the big difference between the way astronomers
in the modern world and astronomers in the ancient world thought about the sky,
comes in their own texts. Today, astronomy is a hard science. Okay, but in the ancient world,
the word astronomer and the word astrologer were interchangeable. There was no differentiation
until the 6th century AD. And in these ancient Keneiform texts that predate the Old Testament by
centuries, you hear this reference to the starry sky as Shittir Shamei, which is literally
celestial writing. It's heavenly writing. And what's remarkable, we have the term astronomer
or astrologer, but in the ancient world, the title of an astronomer or an astrologer was
Tupshadu, which is a writer. And you're like, wait a minute, a writer? Why would you call an
astronomer a writer? Well, remember, astronomy and astrology is interchangeable. The Mesopotamian
astrologer was literally reading encrypted messages in this heavenly writing for signs of
impending earthly events that would befall the kingdom. So the king always had an entourage of
personal astrologers who would say, hey, this star say there's going to be an assassination
attempt. The stars say there's going to be bountiful wheat yields so that we can plan on selling
a lot of wheat at the end of the harvest season, things like that. So the prognostication aspect
of astrology, I think everyone comprehends. We all like to read our horoscope. But here's where it
starts to get really arcane. There's a lot of evidence in the ancient cuneiform texts that
Babylonian astrologers perceived the constellations as literally, I call them still frames,
snapshots, pictures of just momentous earthly events that had taken place in primordial times
often. The actual term they use is lamashi. They call it lamashi writing or literally constellation
writing. And that's what the premise of the book is. So I have it right there for you. The
viewers can read along with the text like pictures in the constellations framed monumental historic
events and word plan the constellations can uniform titles and part of the action in details
taken place in each still frame. So picture you have a still frame in the constellations
and then you have the titles of the constellations that make up that picture. And those cuneiform
titles are divulging the action and details that are occurring in the picture. And that may seem
really complex when you think about it in English. But let me just turn to this picture. This is a
sketch from the Farnese Star Atlas, which is second century. And you look at it there, you see
Pegasus, you see Andromeda, see Perseus carrying the head of Medusa. That's literally a sketch from
the Farnese Star Atlas. They are literally snapshots of primordial events that were believed to have
taken place on earth. Every Greek believed that was absolutely true, inviolably true. Sorry.
I like the word inviolable because you just can't you can't question it. It's so true you
wouldn't even question it. So yeah, Perseus did cut off Medusa's head. And yes, Pegasus did spring
forth there. How did you know that? There's a picture of it in the stars. So the second part
writing, which is the idea that word play can divulge his revelation or divulges epiphanies.
We don't get that today. The main reason is word play is considered a kind of witticism
or a kind of humor. Like when you you see comedians all the time use word play, you know, to be funny.
We don't really understand today the solemnity of word play in the ancient world, especially in
Mesopotamia. But I want to, you know, reframe it for our readers, you know, as someone who was
raised devoutly Catholic, right? You can read in Matthew's Gospel. Jesus says, and I also say to you
that you are rock, you're Peter. And on this rock, I will build my church. So the Roman Catholic
church has based the papal office on a word play on Peter's name. Just imagine the reverence with
which that was done. Like today, we would never pick a president because a word play in their name
said, you know, great leader or something like that. We would just never do that. But in the
ancient world, it was very common. So I just wanted to give you a biblical example that everyone's
pretty familiar with. Yeah, interesting. So, you know, and I'll get to the pictures and everything,
but this is really the meat of what you got to understand, because I want to get into the pictures
in the word plays, you won't understand it if you don't understand these two basic topics,
which is in ancient Ceneiform writing, all of the diviners, including the astrologers,
use this term, they call it a Montenegy, and it literally means hidden words, are some variation
of Purish Tu Sha'ili, which is, you know, the secrets of the gods, so hidden words are the
secrets of the gods. And in fact, when an ancient astrologer found upon, they often added, you
know, the prescription, this is a secret of the great gods, the uninitiated shall not see this,
you cannot share this with someone who is not a professional astrologer. This is,
this could be spiritually dangerous. And so, in essence, word play divulged divine revelations
to the astrologers who were reading the starry sky as if it were a pictographic text,
think of a children's picture book, in essence. So, you might say, well, how did, you know,
Ceneiform writing, how did all these puns start showing up in Ceneiform writing?
So, the fancy term for it in the scholars uses polysomy. It's a really nice word, because it
just means multiple meanings in a word or phrase. You know, if I say, you know, a bear, I saw a bear
in the woods, or she's going to bear a child, that's a form of polysomy, two different meanings on a
word. So, it shows up so pervasively in Ceneiform writing because of the way Ceneiform writing
evolved. So, Ceneiform writing is invented around, it's the earliest writing system,
it's invented around 3000 BC by the Sumerians, and they use it to write their Sumerian,
you know, their Sumerian language. And in the latter part of that third millennium BC,
a lot of Akkadian speakers start showing up. Akkadian names, and by 2334, the first Akkadian
king ascends the throne in the city of Akkad. And the language of this Semitic-speaking people,
Akkadian, is where that the word Akkadian comes from. When you think of Akkadian,
it's just the language of Babylonian and Syrian. It's the people we later know as
the Babylonians of Southern Mesopotamia and the Assyrians of Northern Mesopotamia.
But they eventually accrue political clout in Mesopotamia until they pretty much overthrow
all the Sumerian cities. And Mesopotamia becomes an Akkadian-speaking land. In fact, by 1800 BC,
the Sumerians, who invent civilization, who invent writing, their language ceases to be
spoken as a native tongue. It's only kept as a sacred language from which to record, you know,
science and special religious texts. In essence, it's very similar to the way
the Catholic Church retained Latin as the sacred language of the mass for centuries,
even into, you know, the 1950s. So you might say, like, all right, so give me some examples. So here's
one. So they preserve the Sumerian language. So these Akkadians, because these Babylonians and
Assyrians, they preserve the Sumerian language through the use of what's called Sumerian
logograms. And we just hardly, we don't have any examples of it. The only example that comes to
mind is, you know, the symbol, the English symbol LB, which means pound. Well, it's the shortened form
of Libra in Latin. It just means pound. That's the only example I can think of. So you're looking
at the cuneiform sign called on. And in Sumerian, it just means sky, heaven. It's also read Dean
Gear, which means God. So around 2000 BC, you get this, these very large number of encyclopedias.
They're Sumerian on one side, they're Akkadian on the other side. So they're using these Sumerian
logograms as symbols, and they just embed it in the right. So instead of saying, I could say
Shamu in my writing, or I could just say on. It means the same thing. However, what starts to
happen is one Sumerian logogram can mean many, many words. So for instance, on, we just saw it
meant skies and heavens, and it can be read Dean Gear, which means Ilu and Akkadian, God. Okay.
But it also means Yahu, which means my or mine. It can mean kakabu star. It can mean Shibultu,
ear of barley. It can mean stokupu, which means inhale. It can mean Shah of, it can
Asaku, which means taboo, or forbidden. So this one word can have all of these hidden meanings
underneath it. And the astrologers are looking for that when they find upon, when they find what
we would call a synonym, a homophone, or a homonym, they feel like they have just gotten
a directly channeled divine piece of wisdom from the stars. So there's another phenomenon
that I got to explain to you is it's the number of homophones. Homophones are just,
if you remember your third grade grammar classes back in grade school, homophones are words that
sound the same, but have different meanings. There are a jaw dropping number of homophones
in cuneiform. In fact, there are so many homophones in cuneiform. Okay. So punning with homophones,
there are so many homophones in cuneiform writing that linguists had to invent a transliteration
scheme that allowed you to figure out which cuneiform sign you're reading on a tablet. You're
like, so you'll see if you ever read transliterated cuneiform, they call it transliterated, you can
call it transcribed cuneiform. It's a syllabic script. It's got 600 cuneiform signs. Every
one of them has a name in the way that we call the letter a, a, but it says a, and in the way the
letter b says b, but it's got the name b, et cetera. Well, they've got 600 of them. It's syllabic.
So when you're looking at these Sumerian logograms, you look at that top picture there is mul.
That's the Sumerian word for star, but here's where it gets crazy. There's five other ways to
write the word star in Sumerian. Like if you, if you were a little kid and used to have those
spelling tests, if you were allowed to write in cuneiform, you'd get 100% in every test because
you could just write words in so many different ways. So, so like there's mul too. That means star.
Now, remember the ancient scholar is only reading it mul. They know that's a different
cuneiform sign that is red mul. That's why these astrologers whose name is Tupcharu writer,
where they were the best of the best. They're the best linguists you can imagine. There's a mul
three. That's the one that doesn't mean star. It means like wasp or it means like a watercourse,
like a canal. Mul four, that's used a lot for star. Mul five, rare, but sometimes used cuneiform
sign red mul, which means star in Sumerian. And then there's a mul X that's only used by the
astrologers. And that means kakabu and Babylonian in the Syrian, which is, you know, star. Now,
here's where it gets mind numbing. Every one of these cuneiform signs has a different reading
and can represent different words. So if you look at the top of the page, mul can also be red mulu,
which means mulu in Babylonian arrow. Mul two sign can be red te, which is ushu, foundation,
seem to ornaments, Sahalu, which is pierce, and so on and so forth. So when you go through these
cuneiform signs, when you write the word mul, you could have the underlying meanings can relay
inscription, writing, shine brightly, star, foundation, ornament, pierce, watercourse, wasp,
distant time, fruit, elated field, cow and month. So that's where cuneiform writing becomes
jaw dropping. You're like, Oh, my Lord, what the heck. So you might say to yourself like soap.
All right. Mesopotamians are doing it that way. But this idea of reading the starry sky as a text
in which the action is defined by word play in the cuneiform titles of the constellations that
make up a picture, did that spread disseminate to other areas? Well, there's a phenomenon
going on in the Middle East, especially in the Near East. So when a vanquishing king
overthrows an enemy land, they round up all of the prognosticators of the future, including the
astrologers. So because the astrologers were so prevalent and so important to the king,
they tend to become the face of prognostication. So there's this phenomenon, which the ancient
lot of scholars in the Near East and scholars refer to as hostage astrologers. Well, did this
happen in the ancient world? Well, Homer's name is hostage. Homer, the great, the father of, you
know, alphabetic Greek poetry is named hostage. And there's a couple sources, ancient sources,
like 1st century BC and 1st or 2nd century AD, where they say, yes, he was a Babylonian that
was taken hostage by the Greeks. And he shared this system of reading the stars with Greeks,
with the Greeks. And then they use that to sculpt their own Hellenic myths that we know of from,
you know, from Homer and Hesiod. Another very well known one from the Bible was Daniel. So,
you know, Daniel was referred to, he's taken three and Daniel and three of his countrymen are taken
by Nebuchadnezzar II during the Babylonian enslavement. And Daniel works his way up through
the ranks and becomes the supervisor of all the Babylonian occult scholars, including the
astrologers. So is this work, is this idea of reading the constellations as a pictographic
script? Has it spread? Absolutely. There's no doubt about it. So let me just show you what's
going on. So I hope that helped because now's the test. So we all know Aries, the golden fleece
ram, right, the story of Aries. And it's so quaint today, like, oh, it's a ram and it's got a golden
fleece and it can fly and it carried around Frixos and Helé. And Helé sadly fell off and fell into
the into the sea and that's where we get the name Helispont. Well, that's literally embedded in the
stars of Aries. And let me show you what I mean. So New Year's Day, first millennium, beginning of
the first millennium Mesopotamia, New Year's Day is marked by Aries. Now, ancient Mesopotamia, Aries
has a title, his name's Luhunga. It literally means man, hired worker. And the man is called a
determinative. It's just a noun marker that says, this is a male profession. And you'd often not
read it, but it goes with the word. It doesn't have to be phoneticized. In fact, it's often not,
typically isn't phoneticized. And Luhunga just means hired worker. Now,
this is the foundation of agricultural success and, you know, economic success in the Middle East.
You had to have this, the Pegasus Square is defined as a field. And right next to this
hired worker constellation is Triangulum, the constellation Triangulum. And that was a plow.
This defined how you, how the king became wealthy in ancient Mesopotamia. You fed your people because
this is a divine job. You have to do it if the king's going to be successful. So, all right. Now,
cuneiform writing, writing in clay tablets is cumbersome and tedious. So they're always trying to
abbreviate. They're trying to shorten the writing, which is part of the reason why
Sumerian logograms are easy, because then you can just use one cuneiform sign to imprint a word.
So, one of the ways that you shorten, if you look at Luhunga in that picture right there,
that's Aries, the hired worker, well, they would try to shorten his name to Luh, the first cuneiform
sign. However, Luh is a determinative and you're, the grammatical rule in cuneiform is you're not
supposed to pronounce that. So, in the same way that we have grammatical rules, like the first
letter in a sentence is capitalized. Well, they had them too. One of them is determinatives aren't
vocalized. They're red, but they're not vocalized. So, what happened is they inserted another cuneiform
sign, red Luh. And that cuneiform sign, red Luh, which stood for a hired worker, it's the first
cuneiform sign. It meant man, but they used another cuneiform sign. Well, it's also the cuneiform
sign for RAM. And since the 1940s, people have known that this is, this pun created Aries the RAM.
So, I knew that back in grad school, but I was wondering, I was like, so what about this golden
fleece? Are there more readings that no one's ever dipped into? And I'm like, when I started to look
at it, I was like, oh, no, it just can't be this simple. Yeah. So, Luh can also be read C, which
means become, right? So, you have the words, the hired worker becomes the RAM. So, not only
is there a pun, there's a verb inserted in it that tells you exactly what it did. This hired
worker constellation became the RAM. Now, there are many ways to write that cuneiform sign, Luh,
in the same way we have like, you can write the letter A in print, you can write it in cursive,
you can write it in all different kinds of fonts, they had three or four different kinds of scripts
in cuneiform, you could write a cursive form of it, you could write a very official form of it.
One of them is what's shown up at the top of the page. So, if they were writing an abbreviated form
of the hired worker constellation Aries, they could write it Luh. That word means RAM,
word means become. If you look, it's comprised of two different cuneiform signs.
One is a square. That square sign is called Lagob. That means flying. That little,
looks like a crossed cuneiform sign in the middle of that Luh sign. That's the cuneiform sign bar.
Bar means gold and fleece. So, embedded in the cuneiform sign, all the words, when you lay them
down, you get hired worker becomes the flying gold fleece RAM. So, there's your golden fleece,
that's where the idea comes from. Yeah, and then they abbreviated Luh many other ways too.
Remember, the original title was Luhunga. They abbreviated as Mullu, which means constellation
hired worker. They also abbreviated it Mulhun, which means constellation hired worker. They're
just using one of the cuneiform signs. But when you know that's their abbreviations,
they appear to be just writing down all the hidden words. So, Mul can also be red knob. Well,
that's a homophone for the Sumerian word for C. Hun means to fall into. Luh can be red Udu,
which is RAM. Remember, I just mentioned that the Luh sign was also the word for RAM. Luh
has the word Luhgab embedded in it, which means flying. It's got the bar sign embedded in it,
which means golden fleece. It can be red C, which means one of its reading not only doesn't mean
to come, but it also can be red. It represents the Babylonian word Sahuru, which means curly.
And curly is the Greek name Frixus. That's what that boy's name is. That hero, Frixus,
his name means curly. And it's also Luh is the term for man. An alternate spelling for man is
ilu, and it just means carries. And if you translate ilu into Greek, you get hele. Nobody's
ever figured out what hele means. In essence, nobody knows what the hell the name hele means.
And so it's right there. If you were translating it, you would just double the continent and you
get ilu, and it can be red ile, and you translate that in the Greek and get hele. So the flying
gold fleece rams carries curly and hele, curly, of course, Frixus. And then you also get the
words hele falls into the sea. So that's the gist of the book. That's the notion also.
Okay, so just to make one quick comment before we continue, I want people to realize like,
if you know that there are mystery cults that don't want people to know these things, you have
to imagine these constellations, zodiac symbols, and these ancient myths are probably built off
of these things. So your average Joe isn't going to see these things. And you're probably like me.
You've never seen this. You're probably going, how do you know you're not just creating these ideas?
See, he has obviously academic training on this. But as we get into this, we're going to see more
examples as to how this gets elaborated and shown throughout mythologies over time that I think are
really interesting. I mean, this really, this opens up like the way I get excited on discovering
something is mythology and not literal history. I'm sure they got excited by finding out these words
played a significance as a story into this celestial single image that he's talking about
of the past history of the earth as on or as in heaven, so on earth or as above so below.
That whole idea is playing in their thinking. And this is really cool because we're getting into
trying to get into the mind of someone like this. So as we carry on, I just wanted to make mention,
keep an open mind, keep an open mind, because you're going to see maybe how this plays out even
better. Yeah. And so, and remember, if you find a pun and you're an ancient astrologer, you believed
it was the secret of the gods. You had just been, the gods, the star gods have just divulged a secret
to you in the same way that Jesus said, Peter, you are rock. And on this rock, I'm going to build my
church. It's the same exact thing. This really begs another question of language. And that's
something that we can't get into, but language itself is a very interesting thing. So, yeah, yeah.
Some Duans of Near Eastern scholarship, the Keneafarm scholarship, one that comes to mind is
Scott Noble. He often says that, you know, the word in the ancient world was the, it was a
crystallized form. Like if you said the word dog, like Kalbu in Babylonian means dog, right? So
if you said that word, the word itself was the crystallized essence of a dog. And we just don't
have that concept today. Like we think of the cells of the dog, the physical, the lungs of the dog,
the heart of the dog is what makes up a dog. They wouldn't have thought of it that way. They thought
the word dog was the essence of dog. And so if I can just go on, we looked at the golden
fleeced flying ram embedded in Aries, and that's probably how Aries came to be known as that
in Greek mythology. I want to look at the celestial garden of Eden. So I got to tell you, again,
we go back to that hired worker constellation. If you remember, the first day of the vernal equinox
helical rising, so the dawn rising, the hired worker rises, east is on the left side of your screen.
That's what they're looking for. This tableau lays out right in front of them. Got the hired worker
constellation. You got his plow. You've got the field he's, he's predestined to till right there.
It's called the Pegasus square. It's a distinct square in Pegasus. Next to it is Ea, the water
god constellation from Mesopotamia, Anki and Sumerian. This is the god that caused the flood.
This is the god. Now, this is where it gets, again, when I found this, I'm like, remember,
I can do a bunch of ancient languages. I'm no great linguist. I'm just your average bear.
You know what I mean? But, but, but I can do it. And, and I'm looking at this, I'm like,
you're kidding me, right? Like you're kidding me. So I just showed you that the abbreviated form
of Aries was Lou. Remember, it meant man hired worker, but they would cut it off because it was
hard to write in Cuneiform. Well, Lou means man. Well, that's what Adam means. So there's a guy
named Adam standing right there. Okay. And I'm looking at the Cuneiform sign used to write the
Pegasus square constellation, the constellation of the field that he's destined to till, right?
Well, God, it's sign name is God. Well, that's the Hebrew word for garden. And I'm like,
okay, that was hard. So then I'm looking at Aea. One of Aea's epithets is Eden. Just means spring.
Springs like water source, you know, because he's the water god. And that's got about 10 different
readings. One of them is May. Well, May is the future tense form of the verb of being in Sumerian.
It means he will be. And I'm like, but that's Yahweh. That's what Yahweh means. He will be. So
I'm like, all right, I'm going to go on the limb here. I think this might be connected
to the Garden of Eden story. You know, so I don't mean to sound cocky or flippant. I'm just telling
you what it says, you know. So I'm looking at other ways to read this Cuneiform sign God. And
remember the Pegasus Square, that square constellation that a Mesopotamia was a field,
literally means garden in Hebrew. And ancient Babylonians believed that if a constellation
resembled a Cuneiform sign, that Cuneiform sign was its astroglyph. Very much the way you think of
Egyptian hieroglyphics. So there's one very distinctly square Cuneiform sign. It's called Legob.
And that really became the astroglyph for this constellation. You could write it gone, you could
refer to it as Legob. But Legob has about 23 different readings. One of them is knee, which
means in, one of them is one of them is Negene, which means East. And it's also the Sumerian
logogram that means the word Bamaatu. Now Bamaatu is kind of interesting to me because
it's a synonym for Eden. So when you say the garden in Eden, Eden is a Sumerian
logogram. There's no, there's no word in, like there's no word in Hebrew called Eden. It comes
out of the Sumerian, and it means stepland, or you could probably translate it as backcountry.
So, so, so Legob means Eden, it means stepland. So these Cuneiform signs reveal or divulge
that there is a garden in Eden in East. And that shows up almost exactly, I think it's Genesis
2, line 8, gets translated directly into the Hebrew, the biblical Hebrew. So again, you look at that,
remember that Mesopotamian hired worker constellation who was to till the field standing next to the
Water God Ea. Well, the alternate readings for there, those Cuneiform signs revealed
to astrologer authors, such as maybe in the tradition of Daniel, that Aries was a guy named
Man, or Adam in Hebrew, that there was a garden in stepland in Eden, and it was the Pegasus Square,
and that there was this, this deity that caused the flood, and his name was He Will Be, which is
Yahweh. So a garden in Eden in the East becomes this still frame of a scene from, you know,
the Garden of Eden story. And so you might say, well, how did, you know, Yahweh end up in the
garden? Well, astronomical texts, Cuneiform astronomical texts refer to the Pegasus Square,
that garden constellation, or field constellation in Cuneiform, they call it the Shubat, which
literally means the dwelling over the residence of Aquarius. So this Garden Eden is where Yahweh
Aquarius is dwelling. Okay, so that's how they got that idea. But there's way more to it. So like,
remember in Genesis, it says that Yahweh planted a garden in Eden. Well, he planted a
garden in Eden because it's right there. The Apine constellation, that Plough constellation,
that also represents the verb, a ratio in Babylon, it means to plant. And this square field, the
garden constellation, it's also a Cuneiform sign that means box, for obvious reasons, it looks like
a box. And an alternate reading for box is Akka, which means to plant. So the idea that Yahweh
embodied in Aquarius, planted a garden in Eden in the East, is right there in the stars. You're
never going to find Eden, probably because it's not anywhere on earth. It's actually in the stars.
And like your Father Prayer, on earth as it is in heaven, they were bringing the heavens down to
earth. So, and you can keep going. So how did Adam get into the garden? Well, you know, you just
look at all the Cuneiform signs for Luhunga, remember, that's the hired worker constellation in
Cuneiform. So Daniel and all of his countrymen, who were very scholars, who were studying with him
in colloquies with Babylonian astrologers, learn that Luhunga can mean man. It can mean the word
Manu in Babylonian, which means whom. It can mean who can mean Manu, which means to make.
It can mean Inna in Babylonian, which means in. The Gossine can mean Kanu, which means to put.
So you lay it all down, translate into Hebrew, and you get Yahweh put there, the man whom you had
made. And you can keep going on that. Like, I don't want to just stick with one myth. You can show that
Adam made the woman from the rib of the man, and he made it turn into the woman. That's all embedded
as homonyms, homophones, and synonyms in the Cuneiform signs for Aries.
The location of the fruit, that Cuneiform sign, the astroglyph for the Pegasus square constellation,
that Lagab sign right in the middle of your screen, there's a Cuneiform sign. Well, that also means
Inbu, which is fruit. So they can use the Cuneiform sign, Lagab, to describe the Pegasus square.
They can use the Cuneiform sign, Gan, to describe the Pegasus square. But Gan can also be read Asha,
which means forbidden. Gan is a garden. Gan is a synonym for Asha, which also means field.
And Asha can render Inelibi, which means in the middle. Again, the linguistics are very complicated,
and I talk them away in footnotes, but I'm just showing you the right there. Like,
an ancient scholar could read this like, oh, it could mean this. Oh, it could mean this. Oh,
it could mean this. Oh, it could mean this. Fruit in the middle of the garden is forbidden, you know.
There's trees up there. The words tree of life are embedded in the Cuneiform signs
for the Pegasus square. The words fruit from the tree of good, knowledge of good and evil,
that's all up there. And I go through that in the book. There's caribbean, and this is the most
intriguing aspect. So remember, you know, Yahweh puts caribbean to protect the root to the garden
of Eden so that they don't eat the fruit from the tree of life and have eternal life. They don't
become like gods, right? Adam and Eve don't become like gods. So he sticks a cherubim there. I guess
in English it's translated cherubim. It also puts a flaming turning sword. Like, if you were excavating
and you found a flaming turning sword, that would catch your eye, right? Well, there, you're not
going to find that in an excavation. Like, but it's in the stars and it's embedded as word plate.
The Cuneiform sign, legob, if you look at the bottom part of your screen, that's an astroglyph for
that garden constellation, that square garden constellation. It can be red gear, which means
sword, it means flaming, it means turning. It can mean the gene, which means east. The caribbean
are actually coming right out of one of the readings for Aries. So in the lexical commentaries,
they write Aries, they write Gi rubu. And it's just Gi is a Sumerian logogram that's read rubu.
Well, that literally, if you translate that into Hebrew, it gets caribbean. That's what caribbean is.
The you with the little hat on it, if you look right in the middle of your screen where it says
Gi rubu, that's the plural ending. And in Hebrew, that's the Eem. The I am ending in Heem,
meaning in the Hebrew is just the plural ending. So the caribbeans there, the flaming turning
swords there, Yahweh's there, Adam's there, Eve is there, although I didn't go into that in this
presentation, because I didn't want to just stick with one mixed myth. I just wanted to kind of
roll through a few of the myths now, maybe at a more faster pace now that you've kind of been
introduced to how the wordplays are occurring. So there's a wet region of the night sky. When
you look up the night sky, there's eight contiguous watery constellations. You know, we know them as
the dolphin, the goatfish, the southern fish, the water god Aquarius, the sea serpent constellation,
Kettus, I guess in Cetus in English, the twin fishes, the river constellation, and the Argo,
which is, you know, the boat. So in Mesopotamia, they had similar constellations, right? They
pretty much originate in Mesopotamia, but there's an intriguing word embedded in at the surface of
those celestial waters. If you look at the middle of your screen, you'll see Taurus, and there's a
crown on the face of Taurus. Well, the Hyades asterism in Taurus is defined as an agoo,
and agoo is just a word for crown. That's cool. That's great. It's a crown constellation of the
sky god Anu. Cool. However, it's also the exact word for devastating flood, and the flood story
comes out of the blue in Mesopotamia. The Samarans are writing from 3000 BC.
They don't ever mention a flood story. Then in about 2050 BC, Samaritan king list, all of a sudden
you get this reference to this flood that separates time into two epochs, you know,
before the flood and after the flood. What's interesting is the original flood boat in Cuneiform
is the Magor boat. You might say, well, that's cool. I'm a Magor boat. It's a cargo boat.
It's a barge or a cargo boat. There's the Cuneiform signs for this Magor boat. This was the basis
for my master's thesis. I'm looking at it, and I'm like, no, you're kidding me. I'm looking at
those Cuneiform signs. It's the Matu sign. If you see Cuneiform scholars start talking,
like they'll say Matu Gore 8. It looks like you're flashing gang signs, but you're not.
You're just identifying the number of the Cuneiform signs connected to.
So yeah, so it's the Matu Gore 8 sign, but I didn't want to put those little
subscripts in there and confuse everybody. Magus means boat in Samaritan. So Gore has many
meanings. One of them is flood, like devastating flood. It's the flood, the great flood, the one
that was eventually associated with Noah. So I'm looking at this. Here's where it gets crazy.
It's also a constellation mentioned in Cuneiform star atlases, and it's in the southern region of
the night sky. So you start putting it together. Cuneiform literature describes this Magor boat.
It's the original flood boat. It's a constellation in the southern region of the night sky. It's
a deified constellation, by the way. It's a god. And in the Sumerian myth Gilgamesh and Maga,
a Magor boat gets its bow chopped off. So it doesn't have a bow. So I'm looking for a crescent-shaped
boat floating around the southern region of the night sky that's missing its bow, and it's a deity.
Well, when you look at the Argo, the Argo is a giant boat floating around the southern region
of the night sky. It's a deified boat, and it has its prowl chopped off, just like the Mesopotamian
Magor boat. So it's very likely that the Mesopotamian Magor boat, this original flood boat, became the
Argo. And by the way, the word for stern in Cuneiform is arku. It means the rear end of an object.
And if you translate arku into Greek, you get argou, which is Argo. We pronounce it in English,
Argo. It's an omega at the end, so it's an u. It's argou. So it's very likely that this Mesopotamian
Magor boat, this original flood boat, becomes the Argo. And so then you look at it, and then
these flood waters have all the meaning. So the celestial wet region of the night sky is now being
defined as a devastating flood, and there's a flood boat on it, literally a flood boat,
named the Magor boat, which means flood boat in Sumerian. So later, though, in the Epic of Gilgamesh,
they describe the flood boat as, they say the flood, the prototype for the arc is an ikku.
They call it an ikku. Remember that field we were just talking about? Remember that the field
that the hired orator was designed to till? Well, that's the prototype for the arc. Doesn't make
any sense. There's no such thing as a field boat in ancient Mesopotamia. They've got, you know,
water transportation lists, never listed. So out of the blue, Tablet 11, Epic of Gilgamesh,
the flood boat's called an ikku, which is a field, doesn't make any sense.
So you start looking up at the night sky and you say, wait a minute, where's that Pegasus square?
Right? Where is that? It's, you create, the sign name is gone, like that's the name of this Keneiform
sign, and it's Red Ikku, which just means field. It's also the Babylonian arc in the Epic of Gilgamesh.
So where is it? It's floating right up there at the, in the center of your screen as the Pegasus
square. It's floating on the celestial flood waters. Some variation of Astrologer perceived
this as the original arc. So, so that unveils another, by the way, every story element from
Noah's flood is up here. Like there's a, you know, there's a raven constellation, like the
the bird release themes up here. The Gemini is a twin mountains constellation. There's a rainbow
constellation. It's literally, it's an archer's bow constellation. That's what Yahweh puts in the
sky. Every, and I go into that into the book, and I don't go into it here in the slideshow,
because I'm trying to scoot through this so that we get a kind of, it's more of a sampler
for the, the viewers. So one of the real mystical terms in the Bible is the term for Noah's arc.
It's Teba. In archaic biblical Hebrew, it'd be Teba. And it's there at the bottom in italics,
and it's, it literally encodes astronomical information. So if you were a Babylonian astrologer
in the tradition of Daniel, and you were translating the celestial writing of the night sky into Hebrew,
you'd say, all right, there's an field constellation called Ikku, and it's a constellation. So we're
going to call it Mool Ikku, this, the star field or the constellation field, right? Well, that Mool
sign, Mool Tu can be Red Te, and in an abbreviated form of the word Ikku, remember Ikku also means
box. An abbreviated form of box is P, and then alternate reading is Ba. So when the biblical
authors referred to the arc as a Teba, they were embedding astronomical, ancient astronomical
information. Teba literally means it can be read constellation field or constellation box, the
box constellation, which is what the arc is, which is why nobody can figure out the, the etymological
origin for arc, Teba. So that's a little take on it. So this exposes another really interesting
thing, and I don't mean to get pedantic here, but one of my most fascinating aspects of the flood
story is its description in the Quran. So I just wrote it there. So he built an arc, they're talking
about Noah now, Noah in Arabic. And when our will was done, the water welled out from the oven,
we said to Noah, take into the arc a pair from each species, your tribe, and all the true believers.
Two passages from the Quran affirm that the flood waters and the great flood came out of an
oven. Now I've excavated ovens in the Near East, in Syria and Jordan. They're about this, they're
round and they're about the size of your kitchen table. And they're called Tanord in Arabic. And
that's what the floodwaters come out of in Arabic. Well, that doesn't even make any sense. It's
absolutely bizarre and illogical, until you remember that that arc constellation has alternate
readings. Ikhu means field, Ikhu means box. That arc constellation also means to carry floodwaters.
It's a verb meaning to carry floodwaters. And a synonym for it is Shid, which can, which is a
reading of it, one variation of it is gear, which means oven. So the ovens carry the floodwaters.
Remember, Muhammad's illiterate, he learned the ancient myths from his tutor, which is a guy named
Salman al-Farsi, who was a maja. He was basically a Persian magus. Tutor's Muhammad probably revealed
this information to Muhammad, and Muhammad embeds it into the Quran, in the Quranic version of the
flood story, which is really, if you've ever read the Quran, it's really disjointed. It's a really
disjointed book, probably because he's, it's a recital. He's literally reciting astronomical myths
and ancient myths that are being taught to him by Salman al-Farsi. In fact, his wives are complaining.
They're like, dude, you're not spending any time with us. You're always with that,
that magician over there, Salman, you know, and, and in about 10 passages in the Quran,
they complain over and over that, you know, the people that didn't buy into the Quran that stayed
pagan when Muhammad originally converted to Islam or created Islam. They accused him of
recycling pagan ancient myths. They called the myths of the ancients into the Quran, and this
is probably one of them. So another interesting little story, one of my favorites, because when I
was in Catholic grade school, like, everybody was fighting to do a story on, you know, Samson,
because you could say he used the jawbone of an ass. So when you're in fifth grade, you get to take
ass, and you won't get in trouble, and the nuns won't slap you, right? So, so this is one of my
favorite stories. So you're like, all right, I'm having a hard time with this one, even in fifth
grade, you know, and about the time I stopped believing in Santa Claus, I'm figuring, how are
you going to kill a thousand Philistine warriors with the jawbone of a donkey? At some point,
that thing is going to break, right? So you're looking at the name Shimshun, Hebrew's name,
I just wrote it in Hebrew there, it goes right to left. It's all continental. The WN at the end,
that's diminutive. That's like, you have the word kitchen, and then we have the word kitchenette,
but WN is like the et in kitchenette, it means little or small. So it means,
the shim, the shemish part just means son. So Samson or shimshun in Hebrew, his name literally means
little son. So this guy little son kills a thousand men with the jawbone of an ass. Okay.
So is there this little son? Remember that Agu constellation, that crown constellation,
the Hyades that's embedded in Taurus? Well, one of its Sumerian logograms is main, literally means
crown or tiara in Sumerian. It's written Agu, remember Agu means devastating flood, it also
means crown. However, main can also represent the sun god, shemish. So it means son, but
it also represents the word sharu. Sharu means king and it means infant or child. So you literally
have the word infant son or little son embedded in the title of this Hyades asterism. And Samson's
name means little son. So all of a sudden, you got this guy named little son. Now, remember the
Hyades is embedded in Taurus and in Sumerian, Taurus is just, it's the Agu 4 sign, it's red
Agu 4. So Agu just means bull, but because bulls are so big and strong, it's also a term for warrior
and Agu 3 can mean to name. And it also means to name and unnamed. So you have a warrior named
infant son or little son or baby son. And so that's what I think Samson is. That's where
the idea comes from. Now, here's where it gets absolutely bizarre. So one of the Keneophroms
terms for Taurus is the gear 3 sign. The gear 3 can also mean donkey. Now, that Hyades asterism,
it's a crown asterism, but it's also an Isu asterism, it means jawbone. So it's the jawbone of the bull.
But the Keneophrom signs for Taurus can also be read jawbone of the donkey. So you have this,
I use the word polysemos, these hidden words, these secondary meanings to the original term
that the ancient astrologers are viewing as revelations. So they're like, wait, a guy named
little son, you know, he, there's a jawbone right there, right next to him. There's a jawbone of
a donkey right next to him. So how do we know he grabbed it? Well, one of the Keneophrom terms for
bull is loo in Babylonian. And loo is a, it's a homophone for the Sumerian loo, which means,
it means man, it means, you know, it means ram. It also means to grab. So Samson little son
grabs the jawbone of the donkey. And then, you know, Hyades little son is Samson. The eye star
in Aldebaran is the brightest star in Aldebaran. It's the Alpha star. So star in Sumerians,
Iggy, and remember, they attach a whole bunch of different meanings to these Sumerian logograms.
Iggy, it can also mean a thousand. So it means I, it means spring, it means a thousand. It also
can be read Gi, which renders the verb to kill. And Taurus, the, the Babylonian term for it is
loo. It's that L-U and with a little hat on the U. It's an extra long. It's called an ultra heavy
U. And it just means loo, man. So Samson kills a thousand man. And by the way, in Hebrew Bible,
it says man, it doesn't say man, it's singular. So, and every other aspect of the story, their
body's falling, two heaps, the word two heaps is in there. So anyway, I just wanted to say that I'm
just trying to give you a sampler. So there's another example where you have a bizarre supernatural
aspect of a myth. I'm not saying Samson wasn't a real man, but by the time that story about Samson
got written down in biblical Hebrew, all they had was, yeah, we have a guy named little son and
he's a great warrior. So they were trying to figure out like, what were some of his feats?
They would turn to the stars, you know. So again, so Jonah, another one of those really bizarre
myths, he's swallowed by a sea serpent, excuse me, swallowed by a big fish in the Hebrew version of
the story. And he swallowed by a sea serpent constellation in the Greek version of this,
of the Jonah story. So let me just, you know, go into a little more detail there. The Hebrew
Bible says that Jonah was swallowed by a dog lull. A dog lull just means it means a gigantic fish.
However, when you look at the Septuagint, which is the Greek version of the Old Testament,
and when you look at the New Testament, and Jesus makes this designation, he says
that Jonah is swallowed by a ketos, and that's a sea dragon. And it's a specific kind of sea
dragon. In fact, it's depicted in early Christian iconography. So whenever you see Jonah being
swallowed, he's being swallowed by a dogheaded sea serpent. I assure you, there's no fisherman
that ever caught that species of animal. It's never been caught. But yet it's shown
swallowing Jonah. So where do you find this ketos? Finding the constellations. It's the
dogheaded sea serpent constellation. It's also referred to as a sea dragon. What you need to
understand, it's got a dog's head or a wolf's head. There is nothing like this in the sea.
The story is coming out of the stars. So you might say, okay, well then how does that reconcile
this story? Think about Jesus. You know, Jesus says that Jonah is going to be the sign. If you
remember the Pharisees are questioning him, and Jesus says, there's only going to be one sign.
You want to see signs. I'm not going to do any more signs. There's going to be one sign. The sign
is Jonah. So how did he come up with that idea? Well, again, remember that Magor boat that is
embedded in Argo? Remember the original Keneiform signs? And it was like, again, there's like eight
different ways to write the word ma in Keneiform. There's about, I think there's 23 different
Keneiform signs that are red gore. So ma gore, which means flood boat, ma can also mean it means
boat, but it can also be read. It's nibu in Babylonian, which is prophet or spokesman,
which is prophet. And gore is just the standard Keneiform sign for dove. So gore is a standard
Keneiform sign for flood. It's also the standard Keneiform sign for dove. And that's what Jonah
means. Jonah's name means dove. So you have the prophet dove or the prophet Jonah embedded in the
Keneiform spelling for the Argo, the original Ark. So again, how did Jesus know this? Like,
how did Jesus come around and say, like, wait a minute, I know that there is this guy named Jonah
and that he swallowed by a big fish in Hebrew. Remember Jesus knew Hebrew and Jesus knew Greek.
So he swallowed by a big fish in Hebrew, and he swallowed by a ketos, a sea dragon in Greek.
Well, you find it in the Keneiform story of Enuma Elish. That's the Babylonian version of Genesis.
In fact, there's so many correlates to Genesis that many Old Testament scholars call it the
Babylonian Genesis because there's so many correlations. But one of the terms for there are
three sea dragons made. The Tiamat is the goddess, the sea goddess, and she's married to Abzu. Abzu
becomes part of the wet region of the night sky. And Tiamat becomes part of these celestial waters
too. She's put up there, she's killed, and she's put up there. But her body turns into three
different sea dragons. One of them is Hydra. And then there's two others. In the collective,
they're referred to as, if you look at the bottom of your screen, they're called Moosh Mock.
Literally, the word Moosh in Keneiform just means snake or dragon. Mock just means gigantic,
means big, giant, huge, whatever. So Moosh can mean dragon. However, these lexical commentaries
studied by Babylonian astrologers, these Sumerian logogram lists also refer to it as a kind of fish.
It's probably a kind of eel. So Moosh Mock can literally simultaneously mean
gigantic fish, but it can also mean gigantic dragon. And that's why this sea dragon becomes known
probably, Jesus understood that this sea dragon was a big, simultaneously a big fish
and simultaneously a sea dragon. By the way, in Taurus, the term for Taurus is goo. Goo just means
to swallow. Goo can also be red gar, which means to provide. And in the Bible, in the Hebrew Bible,
it says Yahweh provided a huge fish to swallow Jonah. Those words are right there in that stellar
tableau. And I was just pointing them out, they're embedded mostly in Taurus and the
Aldebaran, the brightest star in Taurus. So Jesus calls Jonah the sign. Well, how did he come up with
that idea? Jonah is, remember, the prophet Jonah is embedded in that the Argo constellation,
the boat constellation. There's a river there. Keneiform signs for river is Eid. The sign name
is Etu, which means signed. So in that stellar tableau, you have Jonah is the sign, which is
probably why Jesus said that in Matthew's Gospel. He said, I'm not going to give you any sign.
You're only going to get one sign and that sign is Jonah. So how did Jesus know this? It suggests
that Jesus was some kind of Babylonian magician who was deeply knowledgeable of Mesopotamian
astrology. So you might say, well, Jesus, is that possible? Well, remember, people who didn't
convert to Christianity, if you were a Jew or you were a pagan and you didn't convert to Christianity,
you believe that Jesus performed all of his miracles using magic. So Jews and pagans view
Jesus as a magician, use a picture of him there, raising Lazarus from the dead using a magic wand.
So I just wanted to, again, I'm just giving every word from the Jonah and the sea monster story
is embedded in the stars. I go into it in depth in the book, but I'm just trying to give you a
sampler here. Like, you know, there's a little box of chocolates, you know, Valentine's Day is
coming up, a little sampler, the Whitman sampler, and I'm trying to just give you that. So I think
in the book I call the Chapter 12 is the Stellar Tableau of Jesus Nativity. So one of the most
amazing things about the birth story of Jesus is there's two different stories. Like Matthew says
that astrologers from the east followed this star to Jerusalem, that would have taken two to three
months. Then they get to Jerusalem, they meet up with Herod, then the star hangs a left and goes
five and a half miles south and stops over the house where the child is. And Jesus is born in a
house in Bethlehem. Stars just can't do that. It's not possible. And Luke has a totally different
story. It's totally irreconcilable. Luke says that wait, they were registering for a census and that
Mary was expecting and that she gave birth to the child. There was no room at the local caravancer
eye, which is, you know, we call it a hostel, but it's a caravancer eye. It's where your caravans
stop. And, you know, so they had to sleep out in the courtyard where all the animals were kept.
And they had to use a manger as a makeshift crib, you know, a fatnay, which is a manger. It's a
feeding trough, right? So they're totally, in fact, Luke goes, that's the sign. And the word he uses
sameon, which means constellation sign. And you're like, and it starts to make sense when you realize
that wait, there's a manger constellation, there's a child constellation, there's a pregnant virgin
constellation. And by the way, her name is bittersweet, which is what Mary means in Hebrew,
Maryam means, Maryam means bittersweet. So you look at Regulus, cuneiform astronomical text,
they're not equivocal, they call them, they call this star the charu star. It literally means king,
but it's simultaneously the word for child or infant, baby. The same way we have bear in the
woods to bear a child. One of the logograms, Sumerian logograms for this, this star is may,
and may means anointed one in cuneiform, that's Christ. So you have a Christ child and king star,
which is exactly how Jesus is described in Matthew and Luke's Gospels. So you might say, well,
all right, there's this, you look in there, if you look at the lion there, you'll see charu,
there's your child star, that's a Christ child star. And wait a minute, what's next to it? Well,
in Mesopotamia, Virgo is, she's not a parthenus, which is virgin in Greek. She's a pharaoh, but
in the Greek star atlases, she is a virgin, she's a parthenus. But cuneiform star atlases refer
to her northeastern stars as the goddess Eru, and Eru is a pregnancy goddess. She's literally
the goddess of pregnancy. So all the studying you have, Virgo becomes this pregnant virgin
constellation next to a Christ child star in regulus. And abscene is, if you look at the
central part of your screen there, it's the word pharaoh, agricultural pharaoh in Mesopotamia.
However, ab, the cuneiform sign ab is another word for virgin. And it also means maratu. And
maratu means bitter, and it means sea. And bitter sea is what mariam, mariam in Greek is from the
Hebrew mariam, it just means bitter sea. It means it's salty sea, you can't drink it, it's salty sea,
that's what they're referring to. Isn't that word maratu also used, and I think, I'm being funny
here, but there's a movie called army of darkness. And he had to remember three words when he went
to the book of the dead, and one of them I think was maratu. But he's like klatu,
maratu. And then he like gets the last one wrong. And he's like,
and then like the army of the dead comes back. But it's actually interesting. It sounds like one
of the words he's reciting, I don't know why. Well, yeah, no, probably again, you know, I'm not
doing anything new here. Every scholar, every cuneiform scholar knows this, but they've never
said, Hey, is there a picture of this in the stars? That's where my research becomes seminal. So
you might say, Well, okay, pregnant virgin named bitter sea. Okay, now, remember that star,
there is no star in Luke. There is no, you know, prodigious star. This star goes for three months
from the East stops over Jerusalem, hangs a left and goes five and a half miles to Bethlehem,
and then stops over Jesus's house. That's not possible. That's absolutely mythological. There's
no star that can do that. However, the words in the, you know, in the New Testament, in Matthew's
Gospel read the star led them until having come and stood over the house where the child was,
all of those verbs, all of those nouns and verbs and, you know, in pronouns, every single one of
them can be traced to wordplay embedded in regulus and in, you know, the star that houses
regulus, which is Leo, the lion constellation. So, and I just go through that in the book.
And I, you know, again, I don't want to get to Dan, take and just go down and go through
every scene, cuneiform sign, but that's tucked away in the footnotes. But what you end up getting
is the cuneiform words, the star led them until having come, it stood over the house
where the child was. And you're like, Oh, that's exactly what Matthew wrote. So Luke says,
remember, Luke has a totally different story. So this tableau starts to make sense when you
realize that the star cluster M 44 and cancer, which is just west of the lion, is a manger
asterism. It's right in the star, this is of ancient Greece, way before the birth story of Jesus.
So remember, all of these titles exist before the birth story of Jesus has written.
The author of Matthew, the author of Luke, they have no clue how Jesus was born.
Everybody who was alive when Jesus was born, the only two people that were there were,
were, you know, Joseph and Mary, and they're long dead. So they're trying to read to reinvent
the story or redefine this story. They're going to look in the stars. They know there's a Christ
child constellation in, in Regulus. They know there's a pregnant virgin named Mary in Virgo.
They know there's a manger asterism right next to the, the Christ child star in, which is Regulus.
And then they're just saying, well, here's what the word plays say. There's, there's a, there's,
there's a, the word, an infant, there's the word wrapped in cloth. There's the word lying. There's
the word in and there's the word manger. Oh, that's going to become the constellation sign. He uses,
Luke uses the term, the term Simeon. Simeon literally can be translated
constellation functioning as a sign. So, so all of a sudden, you know, Regulus is the Simeon. It's
the constellation sign. And I think it's based on the stellar tableau. And, you know, so anyway,
that's that myth. And then I was just going to step into the Jesus walking on water myth. So,
most people don't realize that, you know, Jesus walks on water. It's mentioned in Matthew, Mark,
and John. Luke does it, write it down. And again, the stories are irreconcilable. What happens in
Matthew and what happens in Mark and what happens in John are absolutely irreconcilable. Like Matthew
says, Peter walks on water for a short time and then sinks below the sea. Mark says, Jesus walks
past the boat. He literally walked past. He meant to go by them. It says in Mark, I think it's 6
verse 48. And, and John says, well, they're out in the middle of the lake. Well, the Sea of Galilee
is seven miles wide, seven or eight miles wide, they're in the middle of the lake. So they're
three or four miles out. And then the boat trip teleports to the other side of the lake
once Jesus comes inside the boat. And you're like, that's a three mile teleportation. And no one
writes that down. Nobody could remember that doesn't even make sense. However, when you
turn to the stars, you realize that wait a minute. Hacy in his astronomy, his the title of the book
is called the astronomy. He reports that Orion could walk on water 700 years before Jesus performs
the miracle. And well, how did he know that? Well, there's a picture. Whenever you see Orion in the
night sky, Orion's literally walking on the celestial waters. His front foot is in the, the,
is the first star in the river constellation Eridanus. So then you look at his Keneiform titles,
you're like, okay, Dean Geer Damu, literally the deity sun as an SLN, like Damu just means sun.
And I just put the Keneiform signs up there. And another one of his titles is messenger,
it's Mulsukal. Commonly it's translated as, as messenger. You could translate it as
vizier or secretary, but it's more commonly translated as messenger. So you write down all
the possible meetings for this Keneiform signs. Damu means sun. Dean Geer means God. Dean Geer can
also represent the Babylonian word Shah, which is of, Dakiminov, Mukiminov. Sukal is literally the
term, the bat for the, the Sumerian logogram for Pashishu, which means a nointan one in Babylonian.
It's Christ, nointan one. Mul can also be read Shuhu, which means to tread upon. Mul can also be
read Nab, which is sea. So all of a sudden you have the words, the son of God, the anointed one,
the Christ, treads upon the sea. And that's probably how Matthew, Mark, and John realized
that Jesus performed this miracle. He walked upon the celestial orders. So all of a sudden,
Orion is now walking, you know, Jesus is walking on water in, in the guise of Orion, Derek. So he's
the son of God. He's the Christ. He's walking on the celestial waters. Okay. And I go into
all of the discrepancies in the stories, the ones that don't make sense. You know, there's a,
there's a rock constellation walking on water with Jesus in this picture story. There's the words
meant to walk by, which is probably how why Mark wrote down that absurd passage in 648
of his gospel. And also,
instantly reached the other side of the lake is also embedded in this stellar picture story.
So I don't want to, you know, go too far into that. And so my, my theory is that this stellar,
this sea walk to blow is what served as the basis for Jesus' miracle. And then I just wanted to,
to conclude, I just wanted to touch on the Koran. So one of the things Muhammad mentions in at
least two different passages in the Koran, the Koran is considered to be a celestial tablet
preserved or kept in, in heaven up in the sky. Sama, the Arabic word for heaven and Sama, the
is this, it's the word for heaven or sky. What are the big differences in the ancient world?
Like we have the word heaven, which is where gods live, you know what I mean? There's angels playing
harps and all that kind of stuff. And the sky is where we do heart astronomy. That's where we look
up in the sky and find the stars. In the ancient world, the word for sky and the word for heaven is
the same word. Un and cuneiform, Sumerian, Shamu and Babylonian, Sama and Arabic, Shemaim and Hebrew,
they both mean heaven and they both mean sky. So the Koran is kept in the sky according to
Muhammad and the Koran, right? So you see, remember, Muhammad was tutored by this multilingual,
remarkable scholar named Salman al-Farsi, Salman the Persian. And you see vestiges of this
astrological wisdom in the Koran itself. So Sura or chapter 53 is called Al-Najam, the star.
Chapter 54, Sura 54 is Al-Khamar, the moon. Chapter 85 is Al-Baruj, which means, it means the zodiac.
Chapter 95 is Al-Shams, the sun. I mean, could you imagine, instead of reading like, you know,
the gospel of Mark, if it was gospel of the moon, gospel of the zodiac, gospel of the sun, I mean,
we'd be like, whoa, there must be some celestial meaning in these words. So I just find the Koran
utterly fascinating. It's embedded with so much celestial wisdom. I look forward to delving deeper
into it. So one of the things here, this is the Nabataean guys, I did two field seasons in Petra
Jordan. So one of the things in pre-Islamic Islam, so pagan Islam, you'll see these stone
niches cut all into the rock, and they would literally carry around the face of their deity,
and they would maybe do various rituals. They put the face of the deity in the niche that they've,
the square niche they've carved into the rock, and they would worship their deity. So there's
something I found really interesting about that when, you know, when you compare this to the
Keneafar. So I'm just going to remind the viewers of a few things. Remember the name Allah, literally,
it literally means, the vows are lied, right? So it's Allah. So it's Allah means the God. That's
all it means. It just means the God. So when you look at, remember that Pegasus Square,
you're looking at the one that sometimes served as a field, sometimes served as an ark, sometimes
served as the Garden of Eden. Well, that square, remember, it's, it's Keneafarm astroglyph was
Legab. It's that square Keneafarm sign, right? Well, Legab is equated with the word celestial
tablet. It literally can be read Mu leu, which means star tablet or celestial tablet. The same
Keneafarm signs can be read a, which means to name. And it also means the verb, we'd call it a
gerund or a verbal noun reciting. So it's literally a celestial tablet named reciting. And that's
what the Quran is. It's a celestial tablet preserved in heaven. And Al Quran means the reciting,
the recital. That's what it is. Muhammad is reciting what he's been taught. So that's up
there in this, in the Pagan Keneafarm star atlases in the form of Pegasus. But one of the other more
intriguing things Pegasus is defined as Wu ilu. Remember, in ancient Keneafarm, this square
was a field, which can be read Wu, right? But it's equated with the word God, which is ilu in
Babylonian. So literally what that says is the Pegasus square is the God. Pegasus square is Allah.
And it made me wonder if all those square niches you see in pre-Islamic Arabia,
the they call them fate elves, these niches, they are literally square niches cut into the rock.
So you could put the face of the God in there, and they're usually rectilinear or square. And I'm
wondering if that's what all this is based on. If Salman Persian taught Muhammad that, hey,
the Quran is based on the celestial tablet that I'm teaching you from the sky. And he just tutors
all this information to Muhammad. And Muhammad goes on to recite this as his Quran, as his recital.
So anyway, that's the Celestial Code of Scripture. That was the sampler. It's a long book. I just
tried to hit the highlights. I hope that was sufficient for the audience. And I wasn't too
pedantic or boring. I try to be as exciting as I can be. But I'm not the, you know what I mean?
Like I'm not a court jester. Well, thank you so much. That is a very interesting way of viewing
all of this. I've never heard anything like that. So first thing, let's get this out of the way. I
really want everybody to consider going to Amazon down in the description and get you a copy. So if
you're interested in looking at the underlying myths and see if there is something there,
I would really go check out Dr. McHugh's book, really. It's a really important book to look into
if you're interested in this particular topic. Now, that'll be down in the description. So I
highly recommend you go do that. I have some questions. As we've gone that I, I mean, look,
I really, let me tell you, it would be very transparent, right? I think that these ancient
stories that you're talking about absolutely makes the most sense that Genesis, the flood
narratives, everything is coming straight out of a Babylonian context. They're probably in exile at
this point. I would think when they're actually writing Genesis. And so they know what you're
describing makes so much sense. I have a really good friend, Dr. Joshua Bowen, that I definitely
want to get this over to because he actually knows Acadian Sumerian. He knows the languages,
which means you'll be speaking his language and he'll be able to let go. Oh, that's an
interesting thing. So I'm going to go through some of my personal questions that I had and
see what your thoughts are. How do we prevent Parallelomania? For example, you'll say like,
it could mean this. And that's because there's so many ways to read these things. How do we know
that that is the way that they read them? You know, it's funny you nailed right on it there.
That is the, that's one of the reasons why scholars haven't delved into this. You know, they want to,
they want to delve into testable theories. Like you can, you can delve into like the origin of
horoscopic astrology. Like you can, you can nail that down specifically using texts.
The, the only, my only argument is I just try to give example after example after example to say
there's this phenomenon. And this phenomenon is the practice of using the starry sky as
constellation writing is constellation writing as a pictographic text that frames scenes from,
from monumental history and recording it using puns. And they're, they're not, it's not testable.
It's, if you look at, here's, here's where I go into in the book and I didn't mention it in the
presentation. So enumerable-ish tablet seven. So enumerable-ish is the Babylonian creation story.
And tablet seven, they name the 50 epithets for Marduk, the planet God Marduk. He's the,
he's the God embedded in the, the planet Jupiter. They give 50 Sumerian titles for him. And then
they just break apart the Keneer form signs and render that they put it in coherent sentences.
And that becomes revelations about aspects of his power. The entire, I think it's 163 lines
in tablet seven are literally based on word play embedded in the 50 epithets for Marduk.
That's the most, the most prominent example, the best prototype I can use. And you can't figure
out why they, they chose this word over that word. Why did they omit that word and keep this one?
Again, that is the weakness of my argument. Right. So you're a pioneer in a sense on this
experiment of trying to decode potentially some astrological aspect linguistically from
this ancient language. And that's why I'd love to pitch it to some of my friends. And the other
question I had, and this is in the same vein. So we'll get the criticisms out of the way and
then get some of the ideas. One of the criticisms I'd like to ask is, it's always good to ask a
scholar. What are some of the criticisms that you have received from your peers? Have you had
anyone say, no, it's not that you don't know language. Of course, you know the language.
It's maybe they think you're connecting dots too much. Or is there, is there any criticism that
someone has actually done of your work? Yeah. So, you know, a lot of, I do have several articles
that have gone through like Jesus Seawalk. You know, they've gone through peer review. So I've
got several of the articles have made it through peer review. So again, I get that same comment you
just made. Right. Well, again, one of the reasons people have never asked the questions is because
you can't set up a testable argument. What I'm saying, Derek, I'm saying that maybe,
like, you can play paleo psychologist and think like an ancient myth writer. That's what I'm saying.
And I'm, you're a typical scholar teaching at a university would say, no, I'm not even going to
tiptoe on that. I can't prove that. Therefore, it won't get published. Therefore, I won't even look
at it. And what I'm saying, maybe you can. And let's, I don't think, let's just say, for the sake
of argument, half of what I've presented in the book is, is inaccurate. Right. That means half of
it's right in a seminal realm of study, a seminal discipline to see what I'm saying. So, so maybe
someone else will come on, come along and say, Hey, he missed this. But, but there's something
really valid here. Look at this. And let's go down this route. He could have, he could have gone in
this direction. And again, I'm open to criticism. And the criticism I get from people is this isn't
the kind of stuff that is very testable. Yeah. And I could see that. But you know, I actually follow
in line with what, so Argo and dealing with Jonah and the swallow, like all of these things seem
more plausible as celestial than, than other things. You know, in even granting, maybe, maybe they,
maybe there were things that happened in real life in some aspect in history for people on Earth.
And they saw this as a reflection, potentially, of something like I've heard you made a mention
and we'll get into some details here. You made mention that the flood is not mentioned in the
third millennium, but then it finds its way in the second millennium getting mentioned and the
king's list and stuff. And some will say, Well, there was never really a flood here. They found
this in heaven. Even though there are wetlands in ancient Sumerian regions and stuff. So there's
the idea that water rises. Maybe they saw this flood and said, Well, there's a celestial aspect
as to why what we talked about with oral people with the John Knight Lenwall's work, which I love
so much in the way he thinks is that they connected things that didn't really connect. So here we
have a flood on Earth. Maybe there's something in heaven that connects to that, you know. Yeah. And,
and maybe, maybe there was a regional flood that the, the Acadian speaking people that the Samaria,
there is a Sumerian flood story, but it's written in about 1600 BC. And it's written
by Acadian speaking people for probably about a time the Sumerian flood story is recorded.
It's, it's actually based on the older Babylonian flood story. Remember, Sumerian was retained as
a sacred language by those Acadian speakers. But that doesn't mean there wasn't a regional. I'm not,
the one argument is that in prehistoric Mesopotamia, there was a great flood that was projected as a,
onto the constellations as a memory aid. That's how they remembered it. And for whatever reason,
the Samarians didn't write it down. But the Acadian speaking people did, and then they incorporated
into their own writings. That's certainly one plausible explanation. Yeah. Yeah, this is,
this is very interesting. So, so another thing you brought up was the whole garden of Eden connection
and the celestial. And one aspect I wanted to mention is there are scholars that I interview who
point out in Babylon, there were real gardens that had fruit in them that were reserved for the gods.
And so I wonder if there is a reflective message again, sacred things on earth, very important
things on earth, what people would attribute maybe omens to or something that is very sacred,
like temples, temples probably find themselves not only on earth, but potentially in heaven.
And so I wonder if the garden story has real verisimilitude to the Babylonians on earth,
as you would maybe look at the constellations. Yeah, I certainly, that's certainly very possible.
They use the term Asaku, which means forbidden. For the word you just described, it's it's
certain foods are forbidden because they're for the gods or for the king who was considered a deity
on earth, you know, or the queen. And yeah, that that certainly could could be what it's based
on as well. But what I found interesting is, it does have a direct correlate in the in the
constellation of that Pegasus Square constellation, we were talking about it. That constellation,
it's got all this, it's the cuneiform sign's name is gone, but but it can be read Oshog,
and Oshog is, it's a homonym for this Sumerian logogram that means forbidden taboo.
Yeah, so that's where I was getting from. Yeah, interesting, interesting. Okay,
another thing you brought up that I thought was interesting was how you said in Jonah's
depiction in the Greek, you have this wolf dog headed serpent. And it made me think of the
Egyptian hieroglyphics as well, where there's constantly these half human, half animal or
mixed animals that aren't all one animal. And like, of course, you're not going to find someone
might try to go no, they're going to try and find a literal species of some creature that has that
in the ocean. It's like, no, stop while you're ahead of yourself. Look at the hieroglyphics that
we're finding in Egypt, the influence in the East, the Near East is all over this stuff. And I wonder
if these are constellation examples as well, like potentially significant mythological motifs that
are finding themselves in constellations or some heavenly pictures. Yeah. And, you know, again,
my skill set isn't Egyptian, but, but, but that would make perfect sense. I mean, when I think,
especially of, of the pyramids and the pyramid texts, which are, you know, they're often relating
how to get to the heavens, you know what I mean? I'm telling you, this is how you safely get to
heaven. The Greeks have a term for it as well. It's called catastrophism, which means placing
amongst the stars. It's a synonym for deification. You if you were placed in the stars, you just
became a deity. Congratulations. You know, and, you know, so I, again, I come back to the Our
Father prayer, you know, like on earth it is in heaven. And I really believe that's what everybody
was trying to do. And I mean Native Americans, Egyptians, Babylonians, Samarians, Hebrews,
you know, you know, Canaanites, you name it. Yeah, I'm with you. I think there's definitely
something there. I just wonder how far do we push it? Because this is going to get in another one
of my, my questions, right? So the Greek is written in, in the New Testament is written in Greek,
a Koine Greek, you have a little more developed, it's a little down the road. And I kind of wonder
if we take a diachronic method here, approaching what you're suggesting. Do they really know,
are they, are they really aware of these motifs? Like some of the scholars I talked to, right?
They'll look at the Samson example and they'll go, ah bingo, right on little sun. The narrative kind
of tells you a little bit more. If you get the seven locks, the seven days of the week, his hair,
his rays, his light, cut it off. Next thing you know, his eyes are being gouged out, which is maybe
an indication that the little sun is going into winter solstice, which might be why there's darkness
he cannot see. So you might get the hint. And once again, is this provable? Probably not. But
you can look at it and get the gist and say, thousand men, jawbone of an ass. Now that I'm a
Catholic, I could say this and I'm not going to get in trouble. I love that part. My point is, is
they will grant that the Hebrew Bible and in antiquity are most likely aware of these motifs.
But then when you get into the New Testament, they'll look at this stuff and say,
maybe they've lost the element of understanding this as the celestial code and are writing these
motifs the way the ancients may have understood them, being that literature has become
narrated in such a way that they've kind of lost sense of writing these heavenly codes.
And the same goes for Arabic, right? Now we're talking seventh century,
which maybe they're in an exclusive area that's held to these traditions longer,
and they haven't been kind of cosmopolitanized by the Roman. Maybe that's an argument to support
what you're saying. But I kind of wonder if the connections in the New Testament, though they
reflect ancient mythology, aren't really thinking celestial in the same way that maybe the ancient
we also see Buddha, the Buddha's walking on water. Yes, the Buddha walks on water,
one of his disciples walks out like it's a slab of granite. And then he realizes, oh man,
and he starts to sink. Interesting. I kind of wonder if this is celestial. Yeah, interesting.
Yeah. Anyway, I don't know. I'm throwing things out there at you. Yeah, no, that's, that's very,
that is fascinating. I can say that, remember you had mentioned several times that, for instance,
mythorism retained all of its secrets because it was an oral mystery religion that was,
nothing was ever written down. One of the things that the Keneiform scholars continually say when
they find punts, every time they find upon its secret of the scholar, the uninitiated can't
know this, you can't share it, or secret of the great gods, the uninitiated cannot be,
this cannot be revealed to them, some variation of that. And Sumerian, that language dies in
1800 BC and it's retained because it's one of the languages the Babylonian astrologers are
studying. They're studying that into the third century. And there are, there are, there are
actually Keneiform Greek tablets where you see Keneiform on one side, your typical scholarly,
astrological studies, and on the back is Greek. And it's, so this, the idea is there were enclaves
that were protecting and preserving this secret, sacred celestial writing, if you will. And I
really, I really gotta believe that Muhammad had it revealed to him by Salman. Muhammad's a quirky
guy, man. He's a quirky figure. He's remarkable, you know, and at the same time, it's so, he's so
elusive, you know. Yeah. So, yeah. And the New Testament, I mean, yeah, you know, I love testing
in my head these various ideas. You do have a clear cut magi coming from the east that are
bringing gifts. It doesn't say three, but you know, people automatically start connecting the three,
what is it, Orion's Belt, right? They always connect the three, you kind of see the three
pyramids, Giza, they attribute the kings to being these three. But the point is, is, do they need
to know these, these secrets? I guess, let me put it another way to put it, because there's some
academics that I've been interviewing, like Robin Walsh, and I'm trying to connect academic thinking
here, who said that, and she's gone on record saying that the writers of the gospels are actually
elites. Okay, they're not, they're not like peasant little small time. I'm just the only
literate guy in the village who's going to write this gospel for my little small cult of Christians.
These are elites, and she believes that they're competing. Each gospel is competing to write a
better version. Interesting. And she believes they are the one, they're the more sophisticated types,
kind of like we have a rewrite of Homer in the Roman version, the Aeneid. Here you have
writing homers, you know, for the Romans, and here you have elites that are writing the gospels.
They would have been aware of this stuff, you think? I totally agree with the idea that the
gospel authors were elites. You know, I, this was secret, sacred knowledge. You had to be chosen
to get to be part of the enclave of scholars that were preserving this wisdom. It was not
for any, you know, just typical scribe on the street, you know, like a tax collector or somebody
who's recording, you know, receipts and stuff like that. This was the best educated scholars
in the land. And yeah, and I do, I do believe that the key to help unlock a lot of it is the
cuneiform. I do think that, you know. How do we get the cuneiform and the Greek? You're talking
about these connections there, still down into the third, the third century? Yeah, there are
actually Greek and cuneiform Greek texts, where the clay tablets, where they're writing,
they're writing those, remember I talked about those encyclopedias or dictionaries,
Sumerian word next to an Akkadian word. It's, it's meaning an Akkadian. And then on the back,
they'll have the same thing with the Greek word. And so there's somebody sitting down
in colloquies, probably secretly doing this. Wow. And it goes into the third century AD.
And then it kind of ends after the third century. And then, then you've got cities like Edessa
in Syria. Syria is a hotbed for all this stuff, all this paganism. But they're practicing, like,
there's an Akidu festival in ancient Babylonia. That was like a New Year's festival, if I remember
correctly. That's getting practiced in the sixth century AD, according to various, you know,
Greek scholars and Christian scholars. So, so this ancient Mesopotamian ritual system, and maybe even
arcane system of perceiving the stars as celestial writing, may be getting somehow preserved into
the sixth century. Wow. I think we need to keep our eyes open, right? At least. Yeah, I guess
just to go back, the biggest criticism anyone could have of your work is simply that it's
not testable the way they want it to be. Yep. I agree. I don't have a defense. My only defense is
look at Tablet Seven. There's a guy named Gene Patero, a fantastic royal class Keneiform scholar,
who analyzes that Tablet Seven of Enumilish and really shows that every single Keneiform sign in
the 50 epithets for Marduk, the planet God Marduk, Jupiter, every word from the text is based on a
wordplay embedded in his name, these epithets. Deity's names revealed profound aspects of their
strength. But again, it's connecting the idea of a name or a word being its essence. You know, my
name's John, your name's Derek, and we don't think of that as our essence. We think of what we do and,
you know, how people know us and that kind of stuff. In the ancient world, our name had a meaning
and it revealed a truth about who we are as human beings. Right, right. I know people have
shown me over the years my name means the path. Derek means the path in Hebrew. There's a couple
kings that were named this and it's the leader of the way or leader, something like that. But yeah,
it's so, so I kind of sometimes wonder if this is destiny. No, I'm just kidding. There you go.
But seriously, John, this is really interesting. I got one more question and then what I'd love
to do is have people get the book. Tell us what you think down in the comment section,
whether you have criticisms, whether you see something, I hope you're at least
floating the ideas in your mind, especially if you go in the ancient world. I could see
more red flags for people's heads, probably trying to like figure out how does this connect to the
Gospels. Then there's some people who will find connections where in my opinion, there are no
connections. They just kind of find connections. That's where that Parallel Aminia stuff would
come up for some folks. I know I'm talking about you. I'm talking about people in the chat. I get
a lot of that all the time. Yeah, I get it. How does Dr. John Knight-Lunwall, what is his thoughts
of the work? Well, his criticism is exactly what you just said. It's not testable. I can present
an example. You know, I tried to present that golden fleece one because it's so starkly visible
in the Cuneiform signs. There is no way there was a golden fleeced flying ram that carried a
kid named Curly and a girl named Helle. Then Helle fell off. That didn't happen. However,
it's embedded as wordplay in the Cuneiform titles for Aries. That's where all this really started.
I remember hitting it back in grad school at BYU. BYU is, I don't want to say fundamentalist church,
but it's a Mormon church. The Bible has to be historically true at that university.
I had to always say that these stories were depicted on the stars and it was retrieved.
The stars were a mnemonic device for the story. You could remember the story in the stars
so that I didn't get kicked out. I was always tipped on that, but I'm way broader thinking
than that. I'm very pagan. I'm very Catholic. I'm very Jewish. I'm very whatever comes down
the pike. I'm hoping whatever. You're Muslim. You're this. You're that. It's beautiful. It's all
beautiful to me. It all matters to me and I find all of it beautiful. Again, say half of what I do
is wrong. Say what half of what I said is wrong. It means half of it's right in a whole new discipline.
At the very least you're saying, at the very least you're saying there's something going on here
and we need to take a second look. We need to consider that maybe there's something going on
for sure, especially you do have zodiac signs on the bottom of synagogues. You have them
obviously in the Greek world. We know the Phoenicians were doing this as well. We know the Greeks had
their hands on it. We know that the Babylonians were doing this. This is stuff that was going on.
How much were they paying attention to the stars and how much did that play a role in their stories?
I can't imagine that they didn't play a role. I imagine they did and this is something worth
investigating further. Any final words you'd like to make?
No, I just wanted to thank you for having me on the podcast. If you ever want to do a deeper dive
into some of the specific chapters, I especially love the Seawalk chapter because that went through
peer review and stuff. Some of the chapters that I wrote about in the book have not gone
through academic peer review, but that's one of them that has. I think it's in ancient
ancient astronomy and ancient technologies. Archaeoastronomy and ancient technologies,
that's the scholarly journal. I got beat up in peer review and I had to make some modifications
and stuff, but you can literally reconcile the discrepancies in that story from that Seawalk
tableau and it's jaw-dropping to me. I just appreciate the opportunity to be on the show,
to share my ideas. I look forward to any comments or questions and I hope your audience enjoys the
book. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. This has been fun and I can't wait to do this again
sometime. Ladies and gentlemen, don't forget, we are MythVision.
