Okay, we are live myth vision podcast. Welcome back. This is my second interview I've ever
had the opportunity of doing with Dr. Shadi Nasser. Dr. Nasser has written several books.
I'm going to share my screen here in just a second, but Dr. Nasser, since our first
time discussing, if you don't mind, what is your expertise? What is your background?
What about these books here that you've written?
Okay, Derek, so nice to see you again. I mostly work on, as you can see here, the
variant readings of the Quran, the transmission of the Quran, so how it was transmitted,
its different reading traditions, and its reception among Muslims over the centuries.
This of course entails working with Arabic grammar, early Arabic poetry, etc. So mostly,
I work on the transmission of the text and its reception. This is the first book that I wrote,
transmission of the variant readings. The second book is on the canonization of the Quran.
The third book that I'm finishing right now is on the different reading traditions
and its relationship to Arabic grammar and poetry.
In as far as your education goes, I know you're teaching at Harvard and I was hoping at some
point to meet you in person in Harvard. You're always welcome, so whenever you have time,
you're always welcome to come. Well, we'll make that happen at some point for sure,
because I enjoy learning from all of you. Your specialty obviously focuses on the canonization,
but also you know the language. I figure you, especially compared to me, are in a position to
know the subject far greater than I do, and I want to learn from you today, and I want our
audience also to tune in, so you can go in the description just in case anyone watching, get
a copy of his books if you're really interested in a deep dive, because it's going to be names and
words that you're not used to. This has been something I had trouble with first getting into
Islam and still to this day, into Islamic studies, the Quran. There's lots of names and things I'm
not familiar with, so you have to get used to knowing who people are, googling, and once you
start mapping out names, especially major players, it starts to make better sense. Can you tell us
what the Islamic narrative is on the origins of the Quran, the faith-based side we'll call it,
and to the canonization? Then I'd like to do some thought experiments with you
using historical methodology, putting faith to the side, and we'll discuss different ideas.
So I think the first thing to discuss is when we talk about the origins of any book.
Usually in Western scholarship, when you talk about the Bible or any work, you need manuscripts.
So you say, well, how did I receive this book? I have this book. Where's the manuscript from?
Okay, this is how it was published. And we are accustomed to having different manuscripts. We
compare these manuscripts. We know what's the parent manuscript and where it was copied from.
We are lucky if we find a manuscript that was written by the author himself. This is the
holy grail in a sense. Now, in the case of the Quran, it's a little bit different. Of course,
we do have early manuscripts, not necessarily complete. But the case of the Quran is a little
bit different because you have this kind of combination between written transmission,
these manuscripts, and oral transmission or oral A-U-R-A-L rather than oral, in a sense,
is that Muslims memorize the text since its inception. So let's go with the traditional
narrative is that Prophet Muhammad, he received revelation from God through the angel Gabriel,
which is the Quran, right? So he received these revelations. And then over 20 years,
22 years or 23 years, these several revelations came to be known as the Quran,
as the text that we have right now. Now, the important thing to know is most Muslim scholars
agree that the Quran was not collected. So this book that you buy now, the Quran from the bookshop
or you get it from wherever, it was not collected in the same manner or in the same shape when
Muhammad died. So this is when we get to the transmission of the text. So how did we get
this copy? So the Muslim narrative says that when Muhammad died, Muslims, his companions,
they memorized the text. Some of them memorized more than other people. Okay.
And may I interject as we go?
Please go ahead anytime. So sometimes I say things, I think that they are taking for granted and
come in and let me know to explain.
Well, I just want to make sure and get your clarification. This means at this moment,
according to the Muslim narrative, there is no text of the Quran. There's no book,
there's no canonization. But is it all in memory or is it also like in various places,
like you've said before, like on leafs and stones?
So that's the issue is that there are different narrations of how it was recorded. So the interesting
thing about when we talk about Islamic narratives is that you don't have one narrative. So the
always the danger is when you go to one narrative or two narratives that say, well, these two narratives
are representative of what happened in Islam. The more sources you consult, the more narratives you
find, which may contradict each other or complement each other. So in this early period, you have
several narratives how the Quran was recorded. So some narratives suggest that Mohammed did have
a collection that he was instructing his scribes to write chapters of the Quran and rearrange them.
So this suggests that there was writing at a certain point. He had official scribes named in
the sources that whenever he received revelation, he would instruct them to go and write what he
received on parchment or certain writing material that they had during that time.
There are many narratives in the in in non-standard, if you want, Islamic sources,
that certain companions of Mohammed, they used to also write certain revelations and they had
not necessarily a book, but sheets. And they would write it down and memorize it.
If you want the tradition of memory and memorizing poetry and Quran and the Quran is poetic, in a
sense. So it's not poetry as standard poetry, but it is poetic. It rhymes, it follows certain
metrical forms, but it is a poetic text that people memorized it and people memorize it until
today. So you would find now an eight, seven, eight-year-old kid who memorized the whole Quran.
It's not unusual. So there are these all different forms of documentation, whether it's memory or
primitive documentation of the Quran on parchment, on leaves, maybe some inscriptions,
different types of documentations. Okay, so there's no book. We have two questions.
And the first one is related to this and another one I kind of want to take you back before we
move forward. The first one I want to get is this idea, what is the earliest date of this narrative
saying, hey, these are written on rocks and leaves and on sheets and things. What is the earliest
voice that we have that's saying these things that we're aware of, if you can remember?
So when we talk about the Islamic narratives, we talk about something called
accounts or the hadith, narrations. And these narrations, they follow what is called a chain
of transmission. A chain of transmission meaning that I can say, for example, you tell me something,
you tell me a story right now. So if I'm talking to my friends or to students, I would say that
Derek told me something, right? So I'm reporting on your behalf. So and then if this story that you
told me, you heard it, let's say from, I don't know, your friend, John. Then when I talk to my
friend or my students, I would tell them that John told Derek, okay, and Derek told me that.
Okay. So now we have three people transmitting the same account. So and this is how things are
dated. Now what happened is that you and I, we are in the same generation in a sense. So we are not
a student-teacher relationship. So when you have a student-teacher relationship,
then you can talk about generations. So if you have a chain of transmission with A transmitted from B,
transmitted from C, from D, then you can say, well, you can date back this transmission to A
and C and say, well, probably it is 60 or 70 years before or two or three generations. Now the
problematic nature of Islamic sources is that they are always dated later. So we don't have
early documentation of what was happening during the time of the Prophet and his companions or even
the first hundred years, let's say. So this is what we call the formative period of Islam. We don't
have direct documentation from that period. All what we know about this period was transmitted
later on from eyewitnesses. So from the Islamic point of view, you have faith and trust in this
chain of transmission. Okay. I just want to point out this is the same faith and trust kind of thing.
Not identical, but that we see in the early church with patristics going back to apostles.
And then one more comment on something before, because we're already getting ahead and I like
this, but is I think of in Second Temple Judaism, you have these revealer type themes in the literature.
Even what I would think are competing Judaism. And what we have is like Enochian Judaism and
Mosaic Judaism. And you find even in the Enochian Judaism, there's five kind of like a Torah of
Enoch perspective, where he's a revelator who's revealed this heavenly knowledge. Do you think,
and this might get into esoteric weeds, because I know that a lot of Muslims will think
Gabriel revealed to Muhammad literally in some literal way. There's no way to know what is
ultimately meant here. But I'm looking back and saying, okay, who got the divine laws? Moses.
Okay. He gets these laws that I see in several other ancient Near Eastern cultures. I also find
stuff that in Plato, but that's a different topic. My point is, is I'm looking at it and I go,
I don't need to say that Moses really actually got this stuff from heaven because you know my
perspective, I can't find the name of it. But do you think that the narrative is more theological
and it got literalized over time by Muslims instead of just saying, hey, he's our divine
lawgiver. He's the one who's been revealed these things, kind of like what we've done with Moses
or Enoch. What is your personal perspective as a scholar evaluating that original narration
that the Quran has given through Gabriel or the archangel Gabriel to Muhammad?
So I think I would mean, I can't speak on behalf of all scholars, but I think there is a
common understanding. And I think I mentioned that maybe with you or with someone else is that
usually in university settings or in academic settings, there are certain items of faith
that you really don't need to discuss or say, well, oh, did Muhammad receive revelation or not?
We have to prove or disprove that. Okay. Meaning that what we are more interested in is that the
situation or the circumstances within which Muhammad received his revelation. Now, whether,
as a believer, you believe that he received the revelation from God through Gabriel or
he composed the text of the Quran. Okay. You can't solve this.
In that vein, what is the earliest account that we have of the narration of this revelation?
And I guess it could be later. I don't know if this is first in the hadith that's really
emphasizing it. But I guess what I'm saying is by this time, look at the church. I'm only being able
to go at analogous. I have to analogize to Christianity because I don't have any personally,
I don't know much about the Persian, contemporaneous Persian ideas that were floating around
on the level. But I'm looking at the Christian church and I know that hundreds of years later,
they theologize, they allegorize, they do things. And I kind of wonder if this narration is more
theological. I mean, these narrations are definitely theological. They are not only historical,
right? So they are not really describing the situation of what was happening to Muhammad and
his companions. Without, I mean, you have to understand, again, within our investigation
of what was happening in seventh century Arabia, the situation of early Muslims was not separate
from what was happening to Christians and Jews. So they are, they knew what was happening in the
church. These things are mentioned in the Quran. People, the whole narrative of the revelation
of the Quran and circumstances, it's almost, I think from the, even from the Islamic perspective that
it is a continuation of Judaism and Christianity. You can't separate how Islam was formed from
the situation of Christianity and Judaism. It's impossible. Now you have, of course,
certain groups of Muslims, they want to say, well, it doesn't matter what was happening to
Christianity and Judaism, Muhammad received the revelation and he was not aware of what was
happening to his surroundings or circumstances. And this is the power or the miracle of revelation.
But historians look at these things differently, right? So Muhammad was a merchant. He was in
touch with Christians in the north. He was in touch with the Christians in the south. They knew
what was happening in Ethiopia. The Christians there, they were in touch with the Jews in Medina,
in Hijaz. So Islam was born in a context of late antiquity. Islam, as an early civilization,
it's almost a sponge, right? That absorbed different traditions from Christianity, from Judaism,
from Persia, from Manichaeans, name it. It's not a religion or a culture or a civilization that
was born out of nothing, right? So this is what I think usually in our, in university settings,
what we teach is that how Islam was born in late antiquity, it is situated in that context.
So of course, what was happening in the church is important. Of course, what was happening in
Judaism is important. Of course, what was happening in commercial trade routes and
early scriptures is important. It's not born out of nothing, out of a vacuum.
So just, I guess the point, and I want to go back to your giving us the story,
that the earliest accounts of this revelation and how Quran came to Muhammad,
is that first seen in the hadith much later? So, I mean, we could say it's as in,
there's no specific date, but we can say that the earliest sources that we have
about these narratives of revelation, if you want to date them in that sense,
say one like second century, the beginnings of second century Islamic calendar. So that would
basically be eighth century. Okay, right. Thank you. So eighth century, in a sense that you
you really have these seeds, documentation, I'm talking about documentation that you would have
early books that have these narratives concerning these incidents of revelation,
eighth century, maybe a little bit later. And you're suggesting back to our oral transmission,
that there seems to be when they actually put pen to paper, already existing oral
tradition, that hey, we got this stuff back here. Correct.
I mean, your estimation as a, I like to consider you a critical scholar,
you know, historical scholar. In your estimation, is there good reason to accept some of this?
And to say maybe there's some really good, valid, historical reality to some of the material that
we have, even if it has been a few centuries, what is your personal take on how do we sift
through this to know what is trustworthy and not trustworthy?
So this is the crux of the matter in critical scholarship. You have, and this is the beauty
of it, is that you have different scholars with different opinions. Okay. So you have,
you have people who you have scholars. And this is what we study, right? In universities,
that you have scholars who completely want to disregard Muslim sources because they are biased.
Right. And they want to consult non Muslim sources, what was happening in Arabia.
And I do not want to consult hadith literature because they are forged or fabricated, or they
were written later on. And I want to consult what was happening, what, you know, Aramaic sources,
the sources in Syria, Latin, Greek, that tell us about. So you have this one, one approach.
You have the other approach, which is trusting Muslim sources, that these people were in touch
with their civilization, they are writing their own history. Okay. And more or less,
you have to trust what was happening, especially if there are narratives that are
widely reported in the sources. So if you have certain narratives about the revelation or what
was happening to Muhammad, and they are reported over and over in several sources, now you mean,
yes, you have, you could have some doubts, but you don't have to suspect that everything was
fabricated and everything was a conspiracy theory in a sense, especially if they are widely reported
in the sources. I find the same problem in early Christian studies with critical scholars, because
some say let's let's play a game going back and forth between New Testament and what we're finding
here. Some people go, nothing in the New Testament should be trusted. I mean, even on a historical
level, there are some people who doubt Jesus existed, right? And then you have some on the other
end who are like, everything that's said in it, fundamentalists, who say everything in it happened
as it said, he walked on the water, he did the whole nine. Most the scholars that I talked to
fall somewhere in the middle spectrum between there's historical stuff, but it's highly theological,
symbolized metaphors, different things like that. And even sometimes they put words into
the mouth of Jesus. I imagine Hadith do this for Muhammad. Same thing. So then the real question
becomes, how do we know or how can we be confident? Is it just a faith and trust in the tradition,
or do we say, hey, there's some historical stuff out here? It isn't, I'm going to bring miracles
into this for one second, because most scholars, even if they believe, know that historical methodology
doesn't put the miracle on the table as something that they really factor in.
But when you start reading stuff that seems more fantastic or theology type stuff,
looks more like literature and not actual history, that stuff would start to make me go,
okay, that didn't happen. Is this the same tools that we're doing in Christianity that
they're trying to use over here with the Hadith and early Muslim sources?
Yeah, I mean, see, this is why usually Western scholars, they are skeptic, right? Because
so they tell you, oh, come on, I'm not going to trust the historical narratives that Muhammad
split the moon or, you know, he healed or cured a person who was dying. These are all
tales that are definitely go against reason and against science. So if these narratives are
fabricated, then everything must be fabricated. And, you know, I'm generalizing, but if you have
the same person, you have the same historical figure who transmitted two narrations for you,
one narration telling you that Muhammad split the moon, okay, which as a person of science or
believing in rational matters, you would say, well, this is a matter of mythology or a folk tale
that didn't happen. And the same person, the same historical figure transmitted a historical
narration, okay, that has nothing to do with mythology, that Muhammad participated in a battle
and he did this and he did that. So the Western scholar would be skeptic. It's the same figure
the same historian who transmitted these two narratives. And for sure, I'm going to dismiss
A because it's definitely didn't happen. The moon was not split or Muhammad did not perform miracles
because he's not a believer. Then I should dismiss B as well. Got it. You see, and this is why many
historians, Western historians, they reject hadith, these traditions as historical sources.
And so I guess there are many problems with them. What would you, as someone who sees those
scholars, I'm sure you sit back and see all of it and think, because I've heard you on your previous
interview with Dr. Reynolds, wonderful interview. I put that in the description so people can go
watch it. It sounds to me that you are more and I correct me. I want you to put where you are on
this and then I want us to continue the narration of canonization and stuff. But it sounds to me
that you're more someone in the middle. We talked about the New Testament. You're not going to either
extreme. But would you say that you trust the Islamic narrative at least more than some of the
Western scholars that you are affiliated with? I wouldn't say it's not a matter of which sources
you trust. When we say Western scholarship, there are also different trends in Western
scholarship. But you have this kind of extreme Western scholarship, which is revisionist, in a
sense, that we don't trust Muslim sources, not because they have anything against Muslim sources.
It's a matter of being skeptic about everything and starting from scratch. And the problem with
revisionist trend is that it's very animic. You always rely on sources outside the people who
wrote their own history. And my position, as I think many people, as you said, it's in the middle.
So the Muslim sources, again, there isn't just one book or one source in Muslim sources. It's not
only Bukhari, as I mentioned. Everything in this book that you have to trust. When you are
studying Islamic history, there are so many different sources and so many different opinions.
And the beauty of it is that you have different opinions and different ways of describing things.
It's not just only it happened this way. And the reason why I tend to have some trust or some faith
in, let's say, the core of the Islamic narrative is that because there are many different sources
reporting the same event and all these sources, they don't belong to the same opinion. So they
actually disagree with each other in terms of theology or politics, but they are reporting
the same event. So you have two people with different political and theological views
reporting the same event. And then you would say both of them are reporting the same event,
even though they have different, they have disagreements. So you start having, okay, this event
is reported over and over and over. And also you have so many sub-events related to that event
that are also reported in the sources. The more sources you consult, published and unpublished,
the more you see that you can some kind connect the threads together, not necessarily make a whole
some new narrative, but that there's some truth to what was happening. So in Western scholarship,
I think I mentioned that with Gabriel the other day, we have been, I will use the same word,
plagued by almost two decades of scholarship, doubting that the Quran was collected very late.
It wasn't collected in the seventh century, it was collected 100 years later or 150 years later.
Why? Because Western scholars need manuscripts, you need physical evidence.
And of course, there was a push even from other Western scholars, they didn't buy into this whole
narrative that the Quran was collected. There are many Western scholars who were not Muslims.
They also said, no, we don't have to go with one's bro and the other revisionist ideas that
the Quran was collected 150 years later or 100 years later. Why do we have to mean we have so many
early Muslim sources that talk about the Quran being collected early? And suddenly we found early
we find early manuscripts or early fragments of the Quran and then Muslim scholars, oh, okay,
we were wrong. Yes, the Quran probably might have been collected early. So, right, reinventing the
wheel, in a sense, same with pre-Islamic poetry. Now we have so many people or pre-Islamic
poetry is all fabricated. It's all made up post Islam. Suddenly we find an inscription that dates
back to the second century, okay, AD, and then people, oh, okay, now we can trust pre-Islamic
poetry or a core of pre-Islamic poetry. So I'm saying that always in Western scholarship,
they always need physical evidence because they don't trust Muslim sources, not because they have
something against Muslim sources because it's not their tradition and it's understandable. So
my position is always be in the middle, okay, mitigate in a sense, not trust everything on the
right, not trust everything on the left, try to see the different opinions of both sides and go
with that. So my own perspective is that I think there's value in people's scholarship, whether
they are revisionist or not. I teach in my classes once, bro, and, you know, Michael Cook,
the early Michael Cook, and all the revisionist views, we discuss them in class, and then
there's something to learn from that. But always, I think, being in the middle is,
from my perspective, is the best, not too far to the right, not too far to the left, yeah.
Interesting. Okay, so continuing into this narrative that you're kind of painting here on
how the Quran came to be standardized or canonized under Uthman, and there's multiple canonizations,
eventually your second book goes on to talk about the seven Ahufs.
But specifically, can you tell us what that is, and do you, by any chance, differ from the Islamic
narrative on any of these respects, or do you have any particular quarrels about the narrative
that you've heard from the sources? I'm going to start saying it plural since you've corrected me.
I used to just say the Muslim source. It's like, no, the sources in Islamic narratives,
do you happen to have anything in those narratives that you disagree with on how things really went
down? Yeah, so thank you for saying sources. It's important to, you know, emphasize that we do have
several trends and several sources when we talk about Islamic history, and it's not only one source
or one narrative. The issue with the canonizations or different strands of standardization of the
Quran, it's a matter of theology rather than really a matter of history. From our perspective,
it's a matter of history, right? As far as I am concerned, I have this book, and I want to know
how we received this book. I mean, is this book called the Quran that we are reading today?
Is it the same, is it exactly the same book as it was 1400 years ago, right? From a Muslim
theological perspective, they would tell you, yes, it has to be the same book, right? That's the
believer perspective. This same Quran that was revealed to Muhammad through Gabriel,
that the way that he was reciting it, it did not change. It's exactly the same.
Hundreds and thousands of Muslims memorized it, and they memorized it until today, and it's exactly
the same. This is one perspective from Muslim sources. There are also other perspectives
within Islam that they tell you a different story, right? They don't necessarily tell you that all
the Quran we are reading today is different from the Quran that Muhammad was reading, okay? But
different sources tell you a different story of how the Quran was collected, and what do we mean by
this seven Ahraf or seven modes of recitation? Meaning that how did we receive the text that we
have today? Okay, we have to go back to something called the Cairo edition, let's say 1923, 1924,
the way it was vowed, right? Or the way you put the diacritics. Okay, so before 1923, 1924,
what was happening before? What did Muslims read in Pakistan and in Egypt? Well, they were,
of course, memorizing it, but they were also reading it from manuscripts or from printed
editions, and then, okay, you can trace that back to, let's say, around the year 1400,
1420, something where people were reading the Quran according to a certain system of recitation.
So, a reading with capital R is a system of recitation, okay? So, you have, like in Hebrew,
right? So, you have a continental outline without dots and diacritics to tell you how to
vowel the text. The same in Arabic. If you vowel the text differently, then you would have a
different system of recitation. And these different systems of recitation, it took time to develop.
And when I talk about canonizations, I'm trying to trace out how these different systems of
recitation were developed over time, and when, until when you can trace them in time. And what
you notice is that, if you want, I can talk in detail about that, but very briefly, is that over
these 1400 years, Muslims in different regions in the world, they were reciting the Quran according
to different systems, right? And what was happening during the time of the Prophet and his companions
that they were also reciting different systems. There were systems of recitation that came,
you know, they were more popular than other systems of recitation. For one reason or another,
we can discuss them later, other systems, they went extinct. Okay? So, there were companions of
Muhammad who were reciting the Quran differently from the Quran that we have today.
Do you think it's fair to say, and I'm not throwing this out there to you because you might know,
do you think that some of the recitation that the Prophet and his companions would have recited the
Quran, and are there any points of that that have gone extinct that you think might?
No, no, for sure, many of the recitations that probably, you know, the Prophet and his companions,
they were reciting, I'm sure, you know, we can be sure that we don't have everything.
Right. It's not a matter of maybe, it's definitely we have, we have what we received a lot of
information, Muslim scholars, they preserved a lot of information about these variant readings,
the non-canonical readings, apocryphal, if you want, if you want to use the Christian, you know,
term for that, we have codices which do not conform, but they are a little bit different
in that regard. So, even the non-canonical readings, more or less, they are very similar
to what you have now. There are additions and omissions of verses, of words. So, it's not
really a drastic, let's say, revision or different addition. You have all, you know, the Gospel of
Mark and then you have Luke, they are a little bit different. It's a different story. So, you do
have omissions, additions of words, rearrangement of verses of these non-canonical codices or
non-canonical readings, but I wouldn't describe them as really like version A and version B.
Okay. So, they are very similar, more or less. Okay. To the trained person, I would say they are
different. To someone who's not trained, they could be similar. I don't know if it's a fair
assessment. So, if you are initiated and you can read Arabic and you have both, and you can read
Arabic and you know the Quran, it's very obvious that they are different. But if you are average
educated and you really, you know, you only know, I don't know, a few lines of the Quran for your
prayers and you look at both, they are very similar to you and you can't detect. It's like reading,
I don't know, two sonnets for Shakespeare or reading Chaucer. Let's say you have an average
educated American reading Chaucer, they can barely, I don't know, read the letters, but then
if you have someone who's English literature major, probably they could tell the difference
between old English or different poems, something along those lines. In your last interview with
Dr. Reynolds, you and him briefly mentioned impassing, didn't dwell on it and I don't really
want to dwell on it either because I think it's a given and that is that the canonization or even
the way that scripture preservation, canonization, all of that by Christians and Jews would have
influenced them out the gate. So, they already would have had, from the start of this or very
early on at least, let's preserve and we need to preserve based on their probably brushing
shoulders with monks and Christians in the region and Jews and they understand the tradition,
like you said, there's a continuity. But my question to you is this and this is putting
like the faith Islamic narrative kind of the side for a second and your opinion,
do you think like evidence like the Palimpsest manuscript that that might be evidence or
do you think that there's evidence that the standardization process from Uthman
may have kind of constructed some of this stuff and it may not actually all go back to the prophet?
My point is, is like before this standardization, kind of like the Palimpsest had stuff written
over it, right? And we discovered there was something that was a little different, not
completely different, but there's differences. Different, sure. You think we lost some of the
original meanings to some of the stuff that we see? Right. Taking a historical approach,
I understand the faith position. I'm saying let's set that to the side using your academic
estimation. What is your thoughts? So, two things here. First, even within when we talk about
Islamic sources, so you have this, I don't want to call it extreme, let's say faith-oriented
perspective is that the Quran is unchanged or this is one narrative. But again, I want to emphasize
that Islamic sources, when you read the Islamic historical narratives about what was happening,
it's not surprising. Finding a Palimpsest or finding a non-canonical reading, you already
have that in the sources, right? So, if you only read again, re-emphasize, if you are only reading
one source or one perspective from Islamic sources that this is the Quran and we don't
trust the Palimpsest and we don't expect to find a Palimpsest, of course, people will be shocked.
It's an act of mischief. We found the Palimpsest, we found the Quran which is against what we are
reading today because people are only reading or they're only hearing one source. But if you
consult other sources and other historical narratives, you are not shocked or surprised.
Can I give an example? Can I give an example that I think is going to be good?
Look at Christian canon. We have 27 New Testament books. When you start talking about the acts of
Peter or some other non-canonical texts, people get really sensitive that are in the tradition
because they have a canon and an established thing. Is this another analogy of saying that
maybe before the development that happened over the first few centuries, there were several
readings and ideas and traditions and stuff that may have gone back. So of course there were
different things than what we find in just the Quran. And over time that standardization
kind of framed a solid what Muslims must think about their tradition, must think about their book
and that's not how it was. It was more malleable early on. There was more flexibility in things
like that. Is that what you're suggesting? I'm suggesting that and this is what it is.
It's not, you know, this is how it is when always the late Orthodox position re-orients
the early sources. Okay, so you have to depend on the early sources and when early sources are
telling you something which is against the late Orthodox position, they try to reinterpret that
or they try to reorient that. So, oh, we found there is a non-canonical reading or a reading
that goes against the Quran today. Oh, well, this must be a comment or an exegetical Quran. It's not
really a Quran or this was abrogated. Okay, this is this is a supersession. And there are so many,
again, refutations and argumentations of late Orthodox positions arguing against
early Muslim authorities. So, forget about Western scholarship now. You have you have late
Muslims arguing and refuting early Muslims why they are saying this and that about the Quran,
right? So, we have a very famous scholar called the Tabari. He's a famous exegete, one of the most
influential early commentators of the Quran. And this is ninth century, let's say, so 936, 937,
AD. And him and this generation, they were clearly rejecting certain readings of the Quran. So,
this reading is wrong. We don't we don't agree with this reading. This must be false. This is
grammatically incorrect. This position completely disappears later on. There's nothing grammatically
wrong in the Quran. Everything in the Quran is perfect. Everything in the Quran is correct.
So and then late Muslim scholars argue against these early scholars that they were wrong or
they didn't get it right, right? So, it's always reorienting the old material or the transmitted
material to serve the new Orthodox position of what the Quran should be. Your second book,
that's pretty much I'm sure you get into a lot of that in the canonization. So, when I talk about
the canonization and then we say, well, am I disagreeing with Muslim sources? No, because if
you consult early Muslim sources and how they dealt with the Quran and how they tried to standardize
the Quran, it's all basically derived from early Muslim sources and how they understood this process.
So, again, canonization of the Quran is what were the steps taken? First step, second step,
third step, fourth step, until we reached the Quran that we have today. And that's what
when did we reach the Quran we have today, as far as you can tell?
I mean, it's a tricky question in a sense that
because when you talk about the Quran today, it includes recitational style,
every single diacritic, every single vowel, it's a little bit difficult. But I would say,
I would say, like probably the way that this, the way that you have all the diacritics right now,
I would say maybe a couple hundred years when all the punctuation and all the printing, new printing,
if you want methods with the calligraphy, with the new doting system, with how, when to pause,
when to resume recitation, all these technical details, these were all added
recently, right? And if you want propagated among Muslims, but the text as is, the text that you
have as is, it's a stable text, okay? So, forget about the diacritics and the vowels. So, you could
say easily, you know, let's say 1000 years ago or 1100 years ago, the text of the Quran is stable,
it's as is, you're not going to find really a manuscript that completely deviate from what
you have right now. Yes, there are manuscripts we found in libraries and fragments that sometimes
there's a word which is different, it goes back to an un-canonical reading, there's a misspelling
here and there, there's a typo or a mistake, yes, you find that often, not rarely. But the text,
the bulk of the text of the Quran is stable for the past 1100 years, 1200 years,
vowing and this is what, so when I talk about canonization is how you vowel the text
and how many systems of recitation you accept. So, first stage, there were many different
systems of recitations allowed and many different vowing systems and slightly they start to dwindle.
So, you get from 75 systems to 50, to 30, to 14, to 10 or 7 and now they accepted our 7 or 10
systems but early, early on you had more than 10 systems allowed and again these systems sometimes
they disagree only with manners of pronunciation and sometimes with different vowing that could
affect the meaning. So, it could, it could go either way. One more, one more point and I want
to get your opinion on it and then we got some questions if you're open. And that is, I don't
know the language, my good friend Marain would know far better than me and he, I think, you know,
he says the dialect in which the Quran, Uthmanic Quran we have really comes back to like the Qureshi
tribe and it seems like it may be a local, like you could almost say, hey, this really does go back
to that tribe which Muhammad would have come from but the language itself from what I understand
even Arabic is changing over those few centuries. So, to give, to give more accurate, like there's
going to be changes as time goes by because the language itself is kind of going through a change.
Yeah. So, very quickly on that, so you have also different positions on development of Arabic
language. So, you have, you have a position that it goes back to, you know, as early, you know,
someone, Karl Follers, he wrote a book on, on that 100 years as I think published 1896 or
something on the vernacular language of the Quran and he argued that the Quran was revealed in
vernacular Arabic, not the standard Arabic. But now it was revealed in the Quraish vernacular
Arabic and then later on grammarians standardized this vernacular Arabic and made it into the
Arabic that we have right now. Okay. So, that, this is a position in, you know, amongst scholars in
the development of Arabic and they're all, they rely on different sources, manuscripts and they
argue for that. You have other position that they say, well, yeah, of course, Arabic developed
over time, but it wasn't that drastic. You don't have this kind of diglossia between vernacular
and literary register and they were very close. So, again, it's not a finalized opinion in a sense
that the consensus of scholars is this or that you have people who believe in an early vernacular
form of Arabic and diglossic Arabic as we have today. And there are scholars who say, no, you
did have some vernacular but the Quran, the literary, the Quran was revealed in a literary
register and not in a vernacular register. So, again, different opinions, no consensus on that
and it's good to read everyone's opinion on that and learn. So, that's what I'm trying to do. And
since we last talked two years ago, I didn't know anything and I still compared to any scholar in
Islamic studies and stuff. I know very little. No, you know a lot. So, this is very good. I'm glad.
You're learning. I'm hoping my audience is picking up this as well because I think it's
interesting. I love studying the Bible, understanding its origins, where characters and
things come from and I see so many overlaps in a way, like comparative stuff that you can look at.
And the traditions, it's very good to study these comparative aspects when I read things
in Christianity and Judaism and say, oh, wow, this is exactly like the Quran. You have a trend in
Judaism where they say, oh, also the Bible, the Old Testament is the verbatim word of God, right?
And you have the same position also in Islam. This is the verbatim word of God. So, you have
different, they are similar to the Near Eastern traditions and, of course, they
influence each other and they are affected by one another. Thank you for taking all that time
for me. I'm going to go ahead and get some super chats. Sure. And that helps us with our channel.
So, thank you for those who are showing love. Dr. Nasser, first one is Yeshua the King.
Is the Arabic of the Quran unmatched? Is this more of a subjective kind of question in saying,
how do you understand this question? Well, I think he's probably asking, he or she is asking
about, probably with mine, the inimitability of the text. So, you have a trend in Islamic
scholarship or what Muslims usually often believe is that the Arabic of the Quran
is superior to other forms of Arabic, right? It's literary quality. No one can write
a similar Arabic like the Quran. So, this question, again, I think it's very subjective. So, if you
come from the Muslim tradition, of course, the answer would be the Quran of the Arabic is unmatched
because you believe that the Quran is revealed to the Prophet. If you are an objective scholar,
you would say, of course, the Arabic of the Quran is literary. It's similar in its quality to
pre-Islamic poetry and early Arabic poetry. Now, whether it's superior or not, I think,
I'm not sure if there is standard, even in other languages. Can you say in English that
Shakespeare is superior to, I don't know, to Chaucer or is T.S. Eliot the best poet ever,
or his poetry is better than Ezra Pound? I mean, so these things are from, again, if you are not
ascribing to Islamic faith, of course, you have to be objective about these things.
The thing that I think people agree on is that the language of the Quran is literary. It's high
register Arabic. There's no contention about that. Whether it's unmatched or not, it's, I think,
left for people to decide. Thank you so much. And Yeshua the king again says,
myth vision, can you discuss between Shadi Nasser and an Islamic scholar be held on this channel?
And do you think we have 100% of what Muhammad received? So, sorry, go ahead.
So discussion, like you mean discussing with someone else, like as a debate or?
I don't know if that's what they are. I'm not into debates. So if this is the question,
and if 100% of what Muhammad received, again,
it's, I mean, how can we historically really be sure what person X, what person Y received or not?
We are living in 2023 and then you watch different news channels and you have the same piece of news
that Fox News and CNN, they are reporting it differently. So how are we going to know what
happened 1400 years ago? And what exactly this narrative say or not? So again, if you are ascribing
to Islamic faith, of course, you would believe that what Muhammad received is 100% what you have
right now. But again, what do we mean by 100% we know that I think I mentioned that last time
on your channel, there's something called abrogation. There are verses that were abrogated from the
Quran that you don't have in the Quran that we have right now. Probably there are,
I don't want, you also have a trend in Islam, Shia Islam, at least, that they also believe
not all the Shia, but some of them that not everything that Muhammad received was reported in
the Quran. So again, it's a political slash faith issue that they have different opinions on that
and you can never be sure that what he received is 100% what we have today or not.
Thank you. Heng Fa Shi, good to see you here. What can we glean from the Mingana, Lewis,
Palimpsest, especially regarding this idea of the Quran being perfectly preserved or the tradition
this was delivered to Muhammad by Gabriel? If you could tell by the questions, my audience is more
skeptical or like, you know, no problem. Yeah. I mean, whether this Palimpsest or other Palimpsest,
I think I mentioned that earlier, so I don't have to repeat it again, is that if you consult
what different sources in Islam tell you about the history of the Quran, you would not be
surprised to find Palimpsest or non canonical readings that do not conform to the
authentic reading that we have today. Right. So again, you will only be surprised when you are
consulting only one trend or one opinion that tell you that, oh, this is what we have is exactly what
we had 1400 years ago. However, if you consult other Islamic sources, they tell you a different
story. They don't necessarily tell you that the Quran was missing, but they tell you a different
story in the different steps or different ways that the Quran was collected. Okay. So again,
consulting different trends, different opinions within the Islamic, if you want,
Amelia is going to make you not surprised when you find this Palimpsest or future Palimpsest
or a codex that is different from the automatic codex. Only if you listen to one opinion,
you will be surprised. I want to make one comment on that, that I love what you said here.
I was an evangelical Christian who was a fundamentalist for many years. I had this strict
literalist understanding, kind of like what you're describing here. And I think if I was educated,
I don't know where I'd be. I'd probably be where I'm at now. Eventually you study your way to where
you are. But if I had more flexibility and didn't have this very tight bubble, that if I found evidence
contrary to my narrative, pop everything, oh my gosh, my whole world collapsed, that I feel like
if they just studied more of their own stuff, they'd be a little less protective and dogmatic and
it allows them to be more mature in their approach. And this is not your fault. This is the fault of
the people who taught you, or again in the case of some Muslims who believe that, oh,
this is how it is. It's not their fault. It's the fault of the people who are instructing them,
oh, this is how it is. And people should educate if they really care about their
about their students, in a sense, to teach them what different sources say. And there are many
Muslim countries or institutions that they are good at that. So if you talk to people from,
you know, I think, for example, again, from experience, Moroccan, let's say, or Egyptians,
let's say, they have traditional institutions that they are more open about these things than
other Islamic institutions in other countries. So they know about different, you know, variant
readings or non-canonical reasons that they are at ease about these things. And I was like, oh,
my God, this is, you know, shocking to me. So there are certain institutions, Islamic institutions,
that they have, they are traditionally trained and they have different way of approaching these
things. So again, not all Muslim institutions are the same in the way that they handle these
issues and other issues as well. Thank you. Yeshua the king's back. Muslims say Arabic grammar
comes from the Quran. Granting that's true. Is the grammar consistent even within itself,
or does it violate its own rules? Arabic grammar,
so any how you put, you put the rules of grammar based on texts, right? So Arabic grammar doesn't
exist as a software somewhere. So you need texts and the text of in Arabic, it basically consists
of the Quran and Arabic poetry. So Arabic exists before the Quran. Okay. Arabic grammar, the rules
of Arabic grammar, they are not derived from the Quran, they are derived from early Arabic poetry
and the speech of Arabs who used to be the native speakers of Arabic. And of course the Quran. Okay.
So there are of course several verses in the Quran where they don't conform to the traditional
classical Arabic grammar. Okay. And there are many instances in pre-Islamic also Arabic poetry
that they don't conform to the standard classical Arabic grammar. So Arabic grammar, grammarians
want to set rules. They don't like exceptions. Okay. And all in all languages, a grammarian wants
to set the rules and the language should be like a software. They disregard how people speak. They
disregard dialects. It should be this way and that way. And the same with the Quran. So the Quran has
many different reading traditions. These reading traditions vary. And sometimes there are many
instances where grammarians try to find an exit, let's say, or a justification for a certain anomaly
in the Quran by resorting to grammatical tools. So it is more or less generally the whole Quran
is consistent with classical Arabic grammar. It's not necessarily because classical Arabic grammar
was derived from the Quran. So it is derived from the Quran, from the speech of early Arabs,
eyewitnesses, if you want, or the Bedouin informants, as we call them, who used to speak more or less
the same language and pre-Islamic poetry. So it's not only the Quran, it's the Quran plus other
sources. And we have early inscriptions that predate the Quran. The problem with early inscriptions
is that they are very short and they are not literary texts. Right. So usually you'd have an
inscription which is written on a tomb or, you know, a few lines. It's very difficult to really
construct grammar from these inscriptions, especially if, you know, the philologist or
archaeologist, they disagree on how to read these inscriptions. Right. So you'd have one.
They disagree. I'm just kidding. Yeah, exactly. So I mean, there's the famous
Namara inscription in Arabic, either like six or seven articles, every scholar
has his own reading of how to read the inscription and how to vowel it. Right.
So inscriptions are useful, but when it comes to grammar, to setting the rules for grammar,
it's very difficult to rely on them 100 percent. Yeah. Thank you.
Doc Pluromina in the house. Good to see you again, my friend. Did the Uthmanic moustafs
match each other letter for letter? How do Muslim scholars explain that the seven readings would
need to match the seven Ahruf, thinking of the spelling of Maliki and Maliki?
Okay. So I'm not sure about the first part of the question. They match each other letter for letter.
Okay. So first there's the concept of Ahruf or seven Ahruf. We don't know what Ahruf means.
Okay. So there are different interpretations within the tradition of what Harf or Ahruf
mean. There is a misconception that the seven Ahruf equal the seven readings,
and that's a misconception. Okay. So seven readings have nothing to do with the seven Ahruf.
The seven Ahruf is basically trying to justify the existence of different readings. So you have
the, very quickly, two people of Muhammad's companions, they disagreed in reading a verse.
They went to him. Person A told him, he told person A, recite, he recited, and he said,
yes, it is correct. And Muhammad told the second person, be recite, and then he cited differently.
And he said, yes, this is correct. Both of your readings are correct because the Quran was revealed
in seven Ahruf. It means modes, let's say, that's an industrial translation, right?
The seven readings, they came later on. The readings with a capital R, it's a system of
recitation. So you are an eponymous reader, you are a reader, professional reciter,
you have a system of recitation of the Quran from beginning to end, and you teach the system of
recitation. It's different from person B, you are also an eponymous reader, and you have your
own system of recitation. These seven readings were collected later on out of many other systems of
recitation that they could probably amount to 70 or 75, at least according to the, okay? So you
have seven Ahruf, which is trying to justify the existence of variant readings of the Quran.
Readings with capital R, they could be seven, they could be 10, they could be 14, they could be 50,
they could be 70. So that's the difference. So there's no correspondence between the seven and
the seven. It's a misconception by Muslims also, by early Muslims who thought that the seven Ahruf
are the seven readings. Others clarified this, and there's really no correspondence between the two.
Many people try to understand what is meant by seven Ahruf. There are many theories,
and there's no consensus or agreement about that. Yeah. I did an interview with
Haitham Sidki on that. Okay. Yeah. He's a really fun one, and he kind of goes
to some of this, and I'm like, ooh, this is a deep rabbit hole. Deep rabbit hole, yeah.
Imnaq, thank you so much for the super sticker. I went back to see if I missed any comment from
you, but really, thank you for showing the love to the family here at MythVision and help and
support. I really appreciate that. John D says, can you give us a brief bio of Muhammad? Scholars
generally think there's little we can know about Jesus. Is Muhammad similar?
Well, you can go to Google or chat GPT and ask him about Muhammad. They would give you a better
answer than me. Again, same, I think we touched upon that about sources. What we know about Muhammad
is mostly from the biography, which we call Sira, right? So, Sira ibn Hisham, which is a
redaction of an earlier Sira by Ibn Ishaq and from the different hadith. So, that's the
one of the, I don't say trusted sources, but there are many also historical problems and many
problems with the content of the Sira. Okay. So, again, we have to understand that this Sira was
written, and it's written by one trend or one political view of the biography, if you want,
or the Sira of Muhammad. There are many early scholars, especially Namsunni. So, this is a
mainstream Sunni biography of Muhammad. Shi'i Muslims, they don't agree with the biography,
and they have their own sources of the biography that Muhammad is portrayed in this biography,
different from how he is portrayed in the Shi'i tradition, right? So, again, it's an early
biography. It's, again, a matter of faith or being a critical scholar to what extent you trust
this biography and its content. And even Muslim scholars, Sunni scholars, they have some problems
with some of the content. They are regarding the authenticity of certain accounts there.
One comment on this is that I mentioned before we went, I am good friends with Javad Hashmi,
and he's at your institution. He came on after I did an interview with Reuven Firestone on
the idea of Jihad, and just kind of reconstructing Muhammad. Javad makes the point like these later
biographies and authors that are kind of trying to reconstruct what they would do sometimes with
the Quran is they'll have a verse, and then the next verse is like a completely different context,
and it's like you're reading patches, like it's all just patches, and he's saying,
but if you allow the context continue, it actually helps him not look as violent as some of the
biographers later try to portray him as, just allowing the Quran itself to kind of be the
voice of the Prophet, if you grant that this goes back to Muhammad, makes him look less violent,
I guess you'd say in our modern context, because we don't want to be violent stuff,
then what the biographers later portray him as, and so it's interesting.
Well, I mean, no, no, again, it's a point of view. I usually I'm very careful with
what is violent for us now. It's not necessarily violent 1400 years ago.
Exactly.
Okay, so for these biographers, it's either you believe that someone is intentionally trying to
paint Muhammad as violent, if you really think that what is in the biograph is violent,
probably for them is not. And the way that you, if you grow up in a Muslim context,
I'm not sure what they are teaching now, but I would say 30 or 40 years ago,
I wouldn't say violent, I would say heroic. Right. So there's a big difference. So I don't think
anyone 30 or 40 years ago, at least how you are studying the biography of Muhammad,
he's not described as violent, he's described as a hero. So these are heroic deeds. So when
you say, well, he participated in the battle himself, and he was carrying a sword and he got
injured, that's a heroic deed, he's not a coward. But then if you are afraid of all this modern
you know, package of him being violent as a prophet, and then you try to basically improve his.
So I would be careful of trying to say, what is violent for you now is violent 1400 years ago.
Maybe there are things that are of course common between us and the people 1400 years ago, but I
think we have different standards that we have to be careful, not generalizing what is good or
bad for us is the same for these people back then. I totally get it. I was raised in a military
household. So my dad being green beret special forces all that. But I think in the context,
it was specifically about how to treat non believers, because you know how a lot of people who
want to disabuse Islam will say stuff like, oh, he just kill any non believer, like they almost go
full extreme, all the way. And so that was, I think the reaction that jihad is trying to do.
Anyway, we need to get through these. And I don't want to keep you forever, because I want you to
say, Hey, Derek wants to do an interview. I think I'll give him my time because I'm being
generous and not he's not going to abuse it. No problem. So it's fine. I'm okay. Yeah. Are you,
I want to make sure you're okay? And no problem. Yes. I apologize because no, not at all. I
we are starting the semester now. So time is flexible. It's no problem. Yeah.
Well, it's been two years and I'm so glad to have you back here. So
um, thank you for answering john's super chat. Captain dad pool in the house and he's also,
he was military. What does Dr. Shadi think about the Quran's take on the crucifixion of Jesus being
so similar to Gnostic sources? Was the pro was the prophet have been familiar with
so the uh, so I don't want to talk much about that because it's similar to other topics in the
sense of what is the relationship between what the Quran is actually saying versus what the commentary
on the Quran is saying. Okay. And they are very, they are two different things. So the crucifixion
of Jesus in the in the Quran, it's the text is ambiguous. Let's say, okay, it's ambiguous in
a sense that it's not clear. It doesn't tell you exactly what happened. The commentators come and
then they flesh that out and they tell you, well, Jesus was not crucified and there's someone else
who crucified instead of him. And then the word that it was similar, right? Like they, this person,
you know, who was crucified, he looked like Jesus, but it was not Jesus. So all this baggage, it comes
from the commentary, right? And then again, you have two, two, they have many different trends
here. Do you want to only be Quran only person? I don't care about commentaries. I don't care about
the tradition. And I'm only going to take the Quran as a document and read it as is, which is
very problematic because the Quran is not a historical text. It's not a book where you can
read it. And then exactly, okay, this is what's happening. The language is very vague in the
Quran, very vague. In a sense, it's not Gnostic or symbolic, but it's not exact. The Quran is not
a book of history or science. In the same way that the Bible, it's a narrative where it goes,
from A to B. Even in the Bible, you have people disagreeing on what words mean,
and the Quran is even more. And this is where Hadith and commentary steps in, trying to come
up with a narrative that agrees with the theological, if you want, understanding of
the crucifixion of Jesus, right? So again, here you have to take sides. Do you want to only take
the Quran and interpret the Quran as you want, or you want to go to the commentary
and trust that these early commentators had a better understanding of the Quran
than people today, right? So you have a text, which is 1400 years old. You have commentators
who are very close to the text to the time of its inception. They are familiar with the culture,
with the language. And this is why Muslim scholars, it's a tradition. It goes from one person to
another. So to come now to say, well, I have, in 2020, 23, I have a different understanding of
the text based on my knowledge of Arabic, and you are 1400 years separate from that text,
and you want to disregard the commentary tradition. I think there's a problem with that.
And I'm sure in Christianity, you have the same issue, reading the Bible only without
resorting to commentaries. I guess you would know better.
No, but this is a good point. And you're also not saying just by what the commentators are saying,
but considering it is an important point. It's not take it and accept it just because they're
closer, but also don't just, well, I only want the Quran, and I don't care what anyone says about it,
that's early. So I personally, I don't seriously, I have no axe to grind here.
If I want to understand something, I'm probably going to look at early commentators and see what
they say amongst each other, against each other, and try to get, you know what I mean,
because I don't even know the language. That's what we do. And that's what also
early and late Muslim scholars do. You have different commentaries. Commentaries have different
opinions about certain things. They agree on things. So if you have all the commentators who are even
theologically and politically disagreeing on things, and they agree all of them on certain
interpretation of a verse, and then you come now in, I don't know, 1400 years later and say,
well, I don't care about these hundred commentators and these thousands of hadith, and I'm going to
interpret the Quran because it fits my modern understanding of Islam. I think this is a little
bit problematic. You are free to do that. I respect your opinion, but I think it's not going to go
well, especially when we are dealing with this in an academic manner. So again, crucifixion of
Jesus, it's either you go with the text without the commentaries or you have to go with the
commentaries. And of course, consulting non-Islamic sources is important on that matter.
Thank you. Free thinker. Thank you for the super chat. Are there in the Quran verses that
plagiarized from the Jewish Talmud? I wouldn't use the term plagiarized, not because it's
politically incorrect. I think traditions, they impact each other, including the Quran. So of
course, there are verses and chapters. I mean, read, I always teach Joseph, chapter Joseph in
my classes, and I always read with them the biblical Joseph, right? And if you compare both
stories, there are verses that they are exactly the same. It's not, we don't call it an academic
setting, plagiarism, because we don't think about the person who is sitting really and
translating from the Talmud or translating from other sources in that manner. So again,
I repeat what I said in the beginning that the Quran and Islam was not born from vacuum.
It's influenced by the Jewish tradition, by Christian traditions, by other traditions that
were happening at the same time. So it's only natural that you would find verses and chapters
that they are similar to other traditions. Now, if you are a believer, you would say that
this is revelation. If you are not a believer, you would think that Muhammad plagiarized this,
so from other sources. But again, you have to also understand that he was not the only one.
If Muhammad wrote the Quran as an unbeliever, that there are other people who also knew what
was happening. So when, for example, when in the Quran, it addresses Muhammad and tells him,
tell us about the story of Joseph or tell us about Alexander the Great. People knew who was
Alexander. So he's not coming and saying, well, I'm going to tell you a story that you never heard
before. So it says, tell us about this person, meaning people knew about this, but tell us the
Quranic version about it or tell us in an Islamic way or tell us the correct way. So again, the
point is people knew about these things. It wasn't knowledge that was only specific to him.
We think that religions and cultures influence each other and Islam is just like these other
traditions that it carries baggage and influence from Jewish and Christian traditions as well as
other traditions. To kind of, I guess, the reason I feel like this question is kind of, it's one of
those I got you questions is because what we talked about earlier, how later there's a formulated
idea about what the Quran is, how everything in it probably came from the mouth of God through
Gabriel to Muhammad. So did God have to tell Gabriel to, this is the point I'm getting at,
is like, did God tell Gabriel to tell Muhammad that if you kill one man, it's like you killed all
humanity? Oh, that's found in the Jewish Talmud. Therefore, like, what makes more sense? And so I
guess the person who asked the question will probably be like me, like, this is probably just
culturally understood in the mind of Muhammad or the companions, whoever helped compile the
documentation. But instead, you don't have to say that this stuff that we're finding out here
really had to come down from heaven. You, I guess, I completely understand. I understand
also the background and the backdrop of the question. But again, the issue is, yes, the Quran,
again, just, you know, working within the Islamic narrative, they are not saying that
the Quran was revealed, that the Quran was revealed based on the revelation of Judaism
and Christianity, right? Right. And I always say that is that even within the Islamic understanding
that Quran, that Islam is the third of these religions. Okay. So yes, what was revealed in
Christianity and what was revealed in Judaism, it's part of Islam. So if you find verses from
the Jewish Talmud or from the Old Testament or New Testament that they are similar,
yeah, I got you, this is plagiarism if you want, but Muhammad is telling them, I'm not getting this
from God, this is not new revelation, it's revelation based on what was revealed before.
Okay. You see? Yeah. So that's, that's the, that the issue here. And of course, I understand
if you, if you are in the skeptical camp, you would say, Oh, of course, this is verbatim,
the same verse, of course, they must have translated it or plagiarized it. But again,
the other side would say, well, okay, it's a kind of revelation. But sure, yeah, it exists in the
Old Testament or in the Talmud or in the, in the, in the Bible. But that's a revelation that came
before. And it's now revealed again, but in Arabic. So which one you want, which one is more
sensible for you? You choose. Thank you. Yeah. Hank Fashi, do you see evidence of modern scientific
understandings modifying the various translations of the Quran into English, for example, where the
sun sets or the concept of God expanding the heavens? You know, the lot of people are saying
there's Muslim miracles, scientific miracles or stuff like that. Yes. So I can't think of something
about scientific miracles, but definitely social issues. So, and this is very obvious in
translation, especially in new translations, they, there are certain problematic issues in the Quran
that they try to circumvent by rendering it in nicer English. And the, I think the, I think the
example that I always teach in the class is diverse about the, in the chapter of foreman about the
beating, the beating verses. And if you see the different translation of the word be it to beat
someone, translators translate that differently. So some try to make it less of hitting. Okay.
And more, you know, less violent, in a sense. And you have, you have translators who try to put
things in brackets, right? For example, if you say, if you consult Yusuf Ali's translation,
he would say beat them. And then he put between parentheses, only if it's the last resort. Okay,
so getting this from jurisprudence is that, yo, you shouldn't do that right away, but you should
do it as a last resort, getting this. So yes, there are, there is interference from the translator
and how they are translating the Quran based on their modern understandings. I can get a example
from scientific discoveries, but I wouldn't be surprised to find a new translation, finding,
you know, trying to put the big bang there as, as a way of interpreting others possibly.
Thank you. Steve, is there evidence that Ali tampered with the Quran?
There's no historical evidence in the Muslim sources that Ali tampered the Quran. As I said,
there is a Shi'a tradition that they believe that the Quran was tampered with. So this is a group
within Shi'aism, early Shi'aism, that they believe that there was tampering and falsification in the
Quran. That Ali tampered the Quran both in the Sunni and Shi'a tradition, I'm not aware of any
narrative to that, to that regard. Yeah. Thank you so much for that. No more super chat questions,
everybody. We're going to get the rest of these here as quick as I can. I don't want to keep Dr.
Nasser here, you know, too long. I want him to, want him to want to come back for future. Constellation
Pegasus, where did, where does a law show up in history? Is he not a late invention after Christianity?
I'm late to the show. That's a long question. I think you would better ask someone like
Hoylund or, you know, people who work with late antiquity about when exactly the word
Allah comes up. I would recommend a book by Aziz Al-Azmi. It's called, you know,
The Emergence of Islam in Late Antiquity, Allah and His People. That's the book. It's 600 or 700
pages. It's very dense. I recommend this book to anyone who's really studying The Emergence
of Islam in Late Antiquity. This is the title of the book and the different religious traditions
and the, the formation of Islam at that period. I think I would go there. So it's a very,
it's a question related really more to historical investigation and Semitic, Semitic philology
inscriptions. You would find a better answer with scholars who work with these issues directly.
Thank you. I have that book pulled up, adding it to my list here.
Appreciate that. Seth of Vahala says, why should I believe that the book was compiled at a later
day is actually a real unchanged non-attitude transmission of Muhammad?
You don't have to believe that. So again, you don't, I don't think this is a,
it's a matter of belief. It's not a matter of really scientific evidence. So if someone is
telling you that this is the same book that goes back to Muhammad, it's an article of faith. It's
not really based on any research or scientific evidence. So we go back to the issue of trust.
So Muslims trust their sources and they trust their people and they have reason to do that
because it's a culture based on trust, especially with the transmission of things.
As someone, as an outsider, I think you have all the right to not believe that this book goes back
to Muhammad. And I think as we discussed, there are many historical problems with tracing this
book in its entirety from cover to cover, from cover to cover to the early period. So you have
all the right to be skeptical about this. I wouldn't, I don't blame you for that.
That's why early I was asking, like, do you think there's, maybe there's sections that were
after Muhammad was gone that maybe his companions put in? I don't know.
It's most probably, especially if you add, if you add all the different, again, just consulting
Muslim sources, the ordering of the chapters, it was not, it was probably not done by Muhammad.
The ordering of the verses, there's this agreement among scholars, whether the verses were ordered
by Muhammad or by the companions. There are many accounts about certain chapters missing
certain verses, like there's one chapter in the Quran, they said it's only one third of it survived.
So even within the Muslim tradition, there are accounts of within the Sunni tradition,
I'm not saying the Shia tradition, that they are skeptical or they are trying to say,
did we really receive everything? Right. Okay. So I think you and everyone should be
wary of reading, you know, and be skeptical. And it's very important to do that.
But, but I feel like I want to speak on behalf of people who are like me or skeptical.
There's also the extreme the other way. And, and if you think Occam's razor,
like when you put up hypotheses to try and explain this data, what, I mean,
do you think they invented all of it, like completely made up all of what we're finding in
this, in what we're called the Quran? Like, to me, it seems like that's a little ad hoc.
And it might be better to say there was something and it may have had some building onto it. We
don't know, we have no way to prove. But why do we need it not to be to me? It doesn't sound like
every time you turn the page, he's walking on water, he's coming out of a grave,
he's healing a leper, like it's not so fantastic to think that this
would have gone back to Mohammed for me. And I'm a non-believer. So it's like, I,
you know, again, I repeat that for a third or fourth time. If you, when there, when there are,
when there is information reported in Muslim sources from people coming from different
political and theological perspective, and they are reporting more or less similar information,
you start to have some kind of trust, okay, in what they are saying, right? So
when people say, well, you know, the Quran was collected later on, and by Abdul Malik, let's say,
or by late, by late the Umayyads, I mean, you have to realize that the Umayyads were fighting
everyone. Okay, so this is the first, the caliphate that came after the four righteous caliphs,
right? So the Umayyads were enemies with almost everyone. They were fighting people in Mecca,
they sent a troop to Mecca, they destroyed the Kaaba, okay, they rebuilt it again,
they were fighting people in North Africa, they were expanding east and west, everyone was against
the Umayyads. And then suddenly the Umayyads come up with a narrative, and then everyone is happy
with the narratives. I mean, that's not how people function. People are always resisting
what the authoritative, if you want, regime impose on them. So if all these different factions,
whether they are Sunnis or Shi'is or Kharejites or Zaidis, they all agree that the Quran,
and they have different traditions, they are not going to the same tradition.
They say that the bulk of it, it really goes back to this early period.
You start to have, as even as a critical scholar, okay, you have to some kind, trust these different
trends, and that because they are conveying certain information, that probably is true. So
that's not equal to it. You have to seriously consider their opinion rather than blindly
trust them. So I think better is consider them and take them seriously and not just completely
ignore them just because they want to convey a certain ideological perspective.
Thank you. Inquisitive mind, the ghost of myth vision. Can you tell us about the hereditary
scribal errors between the four Uthmanic master copies in Michael Cook, Haitham Sidki's Stema?
So this is a little bit technical. If you have, if you have a certain way, if you are spelling
a certain word, okay, and then you are, let's say you have a manuscript, and you are copying
this manuscript, and you are copying it with the same spelling, if you want rules, okay. So let's
say in English, okay, so you are the word neighbor with OU and then British it would be I don't know
OR not OU, okay. So you have different spelling, and then you are copying this manuscript, and then
you are following the same spelling irregularities, okay, or anomalies. So then you would say, well
basically all these manuscripts, even like they all have these spelling anomalies or scribal errors,
even though that they know that it's an error, but they are following a prototype.
So this is how you are basically going to a Stema or a parent manuscript by saying, well,
all these, you know, manuscript A and B and C, they all have the same mistakes. So they probably go
to the same prototype. Because if one of these manuscripts, they are correcting the mistake,
it means that they are most probably not following the prototype. But you are now sure they are
copying it exactly, including the mistake. It means that it follows a certain prototype.
So that's what, you know, Michael Cook and his article, he tried to basically create a Stema,
where which manuscripts or the different regional manuscripts, the readings or the manuscripts,
they probably come from one parent manuscript, whether it's the Medina one or the Kufa one,
I think he goes for the Kufa, that this is the parent manuscript. So this is how it's
textual criticism, basically, following the Western textual criticism, trying to
map the manuscripts and take them to a parent manuscript. Wow, that was mouthful. Thank you.
Steve's Seneed, why is Ezra only mentioned once in the Quran?
I don't know. We have to ask God about that. Steve, thank you for that super chat.
I mean, there are prophets mentioned 40 times or 50 times. Moses is, I think,
the most mentioned in the Quran. I don't know how many times, but I think he's the most
prophet mentioned in the Quran. Abraham is mentioned, I don't know, 68, 69 times in the Quran.
So I can't tell you why this person was mentioned more than others. Moses is very important. So I
would say that he's mentioned a lot because he's very important in the Islamic tradition as well.
Jesus is very important. So this is why he was mentioned. Abraham, of course, is very important.
Noah. So Ezra, why he's mentioned once, maybe he's, of course, important, but not probably as
important as the other biblical prophets, at least from the Islamic perspective. So yeah.
Thank you. Thank you. OG, thank you for the super chat. As an American, my preconceived notions may
be inaccurate. Is it safe for you, Professor, to be able to teach these things? I teach these
things every semester. So that's not an issue. Some people are not happy with the content,
not only in my courses, but I think in every course where you would have historical criticism,
in a sense, that I'm sure that people would be uncomfortable with certain issues. I always teach
these topics. Some people are happy. Some people are not. I don't care. Yeah, you're just doing your
job and doing a good job. Inquisitive mind, can you tell us what was all of Ibn Mujahid's canonical,
grammatical mistakes? Can you give us all of the examples of what they were?
I can't give you now all the examples. I have them in my book. So my second book on
Ibn Mujahid, I think in the fourth chapter, yes, this book. So I have a list of all the
examples that he thought that they were mistakes. So from the canonical readings.
And this is, again, the same position that I will reiterate now is that Ibn Mujahid was an early
scholar of Qiraat or readings. This was before orthodoxy, before all the seven readings,
every single individual reading were considered to be divinely correct and
without any grammatical mistakes. So Ibn Mujahid was one of those early scholars who did not
hesitate from calling some readings to be mistakes, grammatical mistakes or mistakes in transmission.
There are a bunch of them. I listed them in the book. You can check them out
right there. And he's not alone Ibn Mujahid in considering some of these canonical
readings to be mistakes. Several other scholars like Zamaa Sharid, Tabari, Ibn Ati, all these
scholars early, they considered many readings to be to be a mistake, grammatical mistakes.
In my question, if I can, just poking in there, maybe you have one example you can give.
Are there any examples in your estimation that are mistakes that have become canonized in what
we read today in the Quran that like early on something happened where there's this mistake
and it's become like official throughout the narrative all the way to today? Is there anything
you could think of or? You mean from what I think is a mistake or I mean we don't have to go that
far. I mean even the list of mistakes that Ibn Mujahid lists, for him they are considered mistakes.
Right? So for example, in one account he tells you not necessarily a mistake but
an unfavorable reading. So there's a sound in Arabic which is an emphatic scene. So it's a
saw. It's an emphatic S. So in some recitation you turn this sound, the saw, close to the Z sound.
So instead of saying saw you say Z. So this Z, emphatic Z in Arabic, it doesn't exist
as a letter. So you have 29 letters, this letter doesn't exist. So for example, in one account
Ibn Mujahid says that I used to recite in this way with a certain word that I used to say Z with
this emphatic scene but then because this is not a letter in Arabic, I abandoned this reading.
Okay? So this is for example one in his position that it is a canonical reading and people
recited today but for him he found this reading to be not favorable or ugly and aesthetically
not appealing and he abandoned this reading and he considered it to be incorrect or weak.
Okay? And there are all the examples like he would say I used to recite this with my teacher
and then I abandoned this reading or this is a mistake but after him all these what he called
mistakes they were not considered mistakes and they became part of the canon and then Muslims
recite them because all of the readings are considered to be canonical and correct. So
there are not there's not only one example there are many many other examples that in the early
period scholars considered to be mistakes but then these mistakes became canonized and then
people accepted them and then started reciting them. Wow. Thank you. Allen Bird says was Muhammad
literate, semi-literate or illiterate? Well what does it mean to be literate in the seventh century?
Can you read? If you are literate in the seventh century you mean you read Arabic? Well we had
no Arabic books back then. So what do you read? You read commercial contracts, right? He was a
merchant most probably he knew how to read and write. Was he able to read Hebrew and Syriac?
I don't know. He commissioned some of his companions to read Syriac and Hebrew, right?
And he told them to go learn them and tell them you know the content of these books. So
was he illiterate? Does it mean that literate he can read and write? Arabic was not a language that
was widely written and read back then there were no books so you only use it for commercial
usages, right? Contracts if you are doing something with numbers and with really basic
things. Inscriptions on tombs, hymns, so that that's about writing. Literate if you mean literate that
was he knowledgeable of other cultures and what's in the books of Jews and Christians most probably?
He was very curious and he had conversations with rabbis, with priests, he traveled to Syria,
he met with different people. So he definitely was literate in that regard and he knew what was
happening. He was not someone who was in a you know a Bedouin living in Quraish and not knowing
what was happening around him. Thank you that was a really good answer. Big boy have you ever seen
Farid responds critique and do you plan on responding to it a critique of Shadi Nasir's treatment of the
hadith of Sevin Ahruf? I don't like to engage in debates and refutations. People are free to
criticize me, agree with me. So I don't mind the people disagreeing with me and criticizing my
points of view. It's their own opinion. I respect different opinions even if they
disagree with me. My recommendation would be if you're in communication with Farid have him
publish a peer-reviewed article and then see how it fares. We'll go from there. That would be my
thing because I'm with you. I don't like the the it's almost like just poop throwing. It's like
I'm not into that. So inquisitive mind how come Muslims don't know if the basmala is verse number
one or not of the opening chapter of the Quran if it is recited out loud three times a day?
The short answer is the so the basmala is the first opening verse in the name of God
the All-Merciful at the beginning of each chapter and the reason why it was there is this agreement
whether it's part of the Quran or not that it was not written in the early codices right and again
this I mean it's a good question that this is one of the problems if you have a verse that people
are reciting three times a day five times a day and more than five times because you recite
different chapters of the Quran during the prayer so it's reciting it more than three times and more
than five times. It goes now with the idea of written versus oral transmission. So in oral
transmission you have something and then they written early codices they have something else
and this is where the tension happens. So it's a good question. It's one of the problems that
early Muslim scholars try to tackle and try to understand what does it mean if we are really
100% sure that this is the Quran that goes back to the Prophet why do Muslims disagree on this
verse whether it's part of the Quran or not? So there are again four different opinions on it
there's no disagreement. It's a good question. It's one of the if you want problematic aspects
in the transmission of the Quran that was and still is discussed widely in the sources.
Thank you so much. Constellation Pegasus, thank you for the super chat. Those
commentators that explain the crucifixion of Jesus do we have dates when those commentaries
were written? No dates. It's same as the issue of hadith. So we have very early commentaries.
You can date them again to the 8th century but they are also it's a chain of transmission that
goes back to what the companion said. So again it's not these testimonies about what happened to
Jesus. It's going back directly to the Prophet or the companions of the Prophet. It's not
eyewitnesses from what happened. So you don't have a chain of transmission that goes back to
what happened to Jesus. And this is where of course if you are... The church tries to kind of claim
that the patristics were connected to... No but from the Muslim scholarship at least.
You don't have chains of transmission that go back to the they don't trust Christian sources in
that regard. So as a Christian you are not part of the chain of transmission even if you say so. So
you only have a chain of transmission that goes back to Muhammad. You don't have anything before
that. So you have... So the issue is if you are a scholar of the Bible of course you are not going
to trust the Muslim sources about that because they are only telling you things that go back to the
time of Muhammad and maybe before with pre-istamic history etc. So again all these sources they date
back to the 8th century, early 8th century and they go in a chain of transmission of narrators
that you either have to trust or be critical of. Thank you. Inquisitive mind, does even
Shannabuth's lashing example prove that the Uthmanic codices were forced on the people using violence?
The Uthmanic codices were enforced using political influence and power and yes sometimes violence
if you want to call it violence in that sense. So Ibn Shannabuth was one of those Quran readers who
were reciting the Quran in not the standard Uthmanic Quran. So he was tried and imprisoned,
he was tortured and most probably executed or he got out of prison and died because of his wounds.
So and this is 9th century. So this is 300 years after Uthman, right? And we have several examples
also from before that people were reciting in non-canonical readings and people were rebuking
them. You have committees, a kind of committees and people going around and seeing what people were
reciting, making sure that they are reciting the Uthmanic or the standard canonized version.
You had people who were going around checking the codices and making sure that they agree with
the copies if not they were fixing them or correcting them and all these they are in the
sources. Okay so you can consult them. So yes the Uthmanic codices were enforced, it's a political
decision and they were enforced and people if you don't disagree with the Uthmanic version
there are ramifications and you are tried and severely punished. Thank you. Last one,
Bobby California to the point about needing to consider extracuronic
trad sources, tradition sources, Hadith and other sources say Dulkarnane were others besides
Alexander, a contemporary of Abraham for example, what says Shadi?
Let's say yeah. None Quranic traditional sources about Dulkarnane.
So I mean there's the I think the scholarly understanding of Alexander is that it goes
back to the Romans of Alexander, right? So the story of Alexander the Great of Dulkarnane,
it goes back to the Alexander Romans and as far as I- Tommaso Tesei's work on that.
Yeah so yeah so and Kevin Thampleidel also at Yale, he has a long article on that,
on he's studying this the story of Alexander the Great from Syria sources as well and the
Alexander Romans. So my understanding is that this is a the Alexander legend if you want,
it goes back to that period and this is extra Quranic non-commentary material and scholars
do say that it goes back to Alexander the Great legend or Romans. Thank you absolutely amazing.
This has been a wonderful stream. I hope that you will get Shadi's work, Dr. Nasser's work.
I always appreciate you. Thank you so much for joining me here. Don't go anywhere yet if you
don't mind, just get you a minute after we close out here. Look hit the like button,
share this out with a friend. Let's show love and community and just try to be the best humans we
can today. I love learning all sorts of stuff. I hope that you learned a lot today and I hope to
continue learning in this vein. So any final words from you Dr. Nasser? No thank you very much
and thank you for all the questions and hopefully this was useful for some and again thank you for
having me again. Thank you and never forget ladies and gentlemen, we are MythVision.
Our
