MythVision likes to dig for the truth, so today we have Dr. Aaron Mayer joining us who is a
archaeologist, a professional archaeologist, and he knows a thing or two when it comes to the
reality on the ground. We compare the Bible to archaeology. We talk about Israelite in
origins and the Exodus. We talk about the Philistine. How does this play into the history of reality
and the text, the narratives that the Bible paints? We ask questions that I know you want answers to.
We are MythVision. Welcome back to MythVision Podcast. Ladies and gentlemen,
have a special treat. We're going to be excavating some ideas here today. Am I even pronouncing
that correctly? I hope I am. Dr. Aaron Mayer, thank you so much for joining me. You are a world-renowned
archaeologist. You are located in Israel. You have your hands, your feet, your sweat, your blood is
all over these sites, I'm sure. You've been exploring deeply into these topics. I'm really
appreciative of you joining us here at MythVision. Thank you so much. Derek, it's a pleasure.
Thank you. I'm your host, Derek. I'm a devout, serious investigator who's trying to figure out
what the truth is. What is the reality of these things? When I say truth, I mean,
I'm looking for what maybe the data actually tells us. Of course, I know that there are stories
and we love narratives and the Bible is one of the greatest of all time. I really value that
for what it is. I believe that most of it is narrative. At the same time, there might be a
memory there. We're going to explore this together. I'm hoping you stay tuned because this is going
to be one you're not going to want to miss. First off, I want everybody to go and check out Dr. Aaron
Mayer's books. One of the two that we really need to highlight is the goth one right here.
Can you tell us about the first one briefly, just a quick skim?
Well, that's the first volume of the reports on the excavation that I've been conducting at
the Philistine goth, Tel-Isafi, for the last 25 years. This report's on more or less the first
10 years of work. Then just last year, the second volume appeared, which reports on
additional studies. We have another one about to appear. Hopefully, there will be five, six,
or seven volumes at the end to report all the finds that we've had.
In addition to that, to the books that you're showing, there's about 300 additional articles
that I've written. Anybody who wants to read my stuff, you have a lot of reading to do.
You have a lot to enjoy, but you also a lot to critique.
Wow, thank you. I really highly recommend everybody go. I've listened to some of your lectures.
You are funny as well. I have to give you that. You really have a great personality as you're
presenting these ideas. Some of these ideas, let's be honest, are very sensitive for some people.
I appreciate you because while you recognize that, you're not going to
falter your evidence to fit people's emotional desires or their psychological needs. You really
want to give it to them straight. People are going to maybe adjust their thinking and realize,
maybe I should adjust the way I view these things. Still, I can keep them as my, let's say,
people have an ontological need for these, this is their worldview. They can realize,
maybe this isn't what I thought it was, but it still has amazing value. With that being said,
I wanted to just give the benefit of the doubt. The first question I have is a general one in
your work. You find out things all the time and the Philistine are like a specialty of yours,
but have you found any shocking discoveries or really interesting discoveries over the past year
or two? Yeah, I think so. Well, we've been excavating at Telesophie Gott for 25 years.
This last season was our last major season. We'll continue, but not large scale.
We've been working for 25 years, so you think you know the site very well.
This year, in the rather small season that we conducted because of COVID,
we one discovered a point in the city fortifications next to one of the gates where
apparently the Aramines breached the city when they captured the city in around 830 BCE,
because the Aramines led by Hazael, the king of Aram Damascus, captured and destroyed
Philistine Gott after a big siege. We've had evidence of the destruction of the city,
but we may now have the actual remains of where they breached and went into the city. That was one
very interesting discovery. The other thing is, right below surface, right near the gate,
we found a very large building which we could have discovered any time during the 25 years that
we had excavated if we excavated that specific point. It's a large building which might even be
a temple. It's hard to say because we had interesting finds and it was literally centimeters below
surface. I mean, an inch or two below surface and it was right there. In fact, one of the
interesting things that we have is that we have this enormous city. Gott is the largest city in
the land of Israel during the 10th, 9th century BCE, more or less the time of David Solomon,
Ahab, more or less that period. It expanded from the upper tail of the city, the upper city,
and to the north. When Hazael destroyed that city, that area was never settled again. We have this
enormous area, flat area, where basically wherever we excavate, we immediately reached the Iron Age
remains. Clearly, I'd have to excavate it for 150 years to be able to excavate that entire area,
and I won't. What we've done is we've excavated a small sampling of areas. On the other hand,
we've done a lot of remote sensing using ground penetrating radar and magnetometry and other
methods that give us a picture of what's below surface. For example, this large building that
we discovered this year, we saw through the magnetometry. Clearly, we're not going to
excavate the whole city. It's impossible, or maybe in future generations they'll do this.
That was a very cool find that we had this year. Wow. It's one of those things,
I deal with the internet world where you hear people on each side. The Bible gets validated
by archaeology, and the other side goes, archaeology buries the Bible. It's like, okay,
I guess it's like, what do you mean by it validates or not? In one sense, listening to you,
you're breath of fresh air because you're saying there are some validations,
but then there's some archaeological finds that kind of, I guess you could say,
in effect debunk fundamentalist, literalist interpretations of some things and have to
make us adjust our ideas if we want them to match the reality of what actually is on the ground.
Maybe just a brief comment on how archaeology has been significantly good in our discoveries,
and it kind of matches. It helps us kind of see that, yeah, there's some characters that really
exist. There are some real things here, but also let us see, maybe there's some narrative,
maybe there's just some memory, narrative, cultural, mythology, whatever, if you don't mind.
Okay, well, first of all, I always say that I don't have to prove the Bible because I can
move over to my shelf and pull down a Bible and hold it. It's there. The Bible is there.
There's no question about it. I don't have to prove or just prove it. Second of all,
I look at the Bible as an observant traditional Jew as a book of
significance, religious, ideological meaning. That's what it was written from the very beginning,
to be a text of meaning. Now, as a text of meaning, it was written for ideological purposes, and it
wasn't written as a historical book as we know historical books today. Not to say that historical
books are 100% objective, but at least nowadays we try to do that more. The Bible was written
with a very, very specific agenda, mainly telling the history of the Jewish people,
mainly telling the history of the Kingdom of Jerusalem and the people who lived in Jerusalem
after the destruction of the First Temple. And I believe, following biblical research over the
last 150 years, that the Bible was also created over a long period of time. Now, saying that
it's created by a long period of time doesn't necessarily mean that you have to dump any belief
that it's inspired by God or something like that. That's possible to believe, but I think it was
formed over a long period of time. And I think, to a certain extent, we can look at the biblical text
in a way similar to an archaeological tale, that it's made of layers upon layers upon layers
of texts that have been formed and edited and played around with them, until the final form that
we have today. And we have early texts, which may date, in my opinion, to the early Iron Age.
And we have later texts, which, for example, the Book of Daniel, for all intents and purposes,
is probably from the time of the Maccabees, the time of the Hellenistic period in the land.
So we have a long expansion of times. Now, within those texts, there are texts which are
completely ideological, have nothing to do with history. And there are texts that have a lot of
historical information in them. And sometimes this historical formation is extraordinarily clear.
For example, if we deal with the conquest of Jerusalem by Nebuchadnezzar, the Babylonian,
or the campaign of Sennachery of the Assyrian against Judah in 701, these are all things that
are strictly historical, very, very clear. And even there, we have the Bible putting its
ideological agendas in it. So I would say that what archaeology gives us is it enables us to paint
a richer picture of the biblical text. Because the Bible, here, we talked about God.
God was the largest city in the 9th century in the entire land. It was probably the most important
kingdom in the land of Israel, up until Chazael destroyed it. And when Chazael comes and destroys
it, we have half a passage in 2 Kings 12, either 18 or 17, depending on which version of the Bible
you're reading, where he describes that he besieged, got, and took it. And he destroys the largest city
in the land, probably besieged for half a year. He besieges the whole geopolitics of the region.
And then the Bible goes on, it tells us, and then he went up to Jerusalem,
and you know, around the king of Jerusalem, you ask the king of Jerusalem, gave the
temple treasures. Of course, that's what is important for the biblical narrative,
not the overall geopolitical scene. So I think that we're getting a lot of information through
archaeology that enables us to understand the biblical text better. Sometimes, for example,
based on ancient inscriptions, we can understand text better, because there are all kinds of words
which are not unknown to modern people. And sometimes the biblical period texts,
where the archaeological remains, enable us to understand these texts. Sometimes,
the archaeological finds give a different take on things. So, for example, how the
Israelites appeared in the land, as opposed to the biblical story of a unified Exodus from Egypt,
and traveling through the desert, coming in and capturing the land, and one fell swoop.
We have a different picture. But there are other things that we have a lot of correlation between.
So I think it's not either or. It's a mixture of all kinds of things, and sometimes the biblical
narratives fit the archaeological finds very well, sometimes less, sometimes they're opposite.
But in general, the archaeological finds give us a nice picture on the bare bones of the biblical
text, because the biblical text, you know, it's a big book, but it doesn't tell us everything about,
and it doesn't tell us how people lived always, etc. Now, listen, I'm on Jerusalem now. It's
snowing now. Wow, is it? Yeah, well, it snowed last night. Now the snow is down the ground.
So this is something that occurs rarely in this region, and the same thing in biblical times.
So when the Bible talks about snow, it's a unique phenomena. So knowing the land,
whether archaeologically or by knowing the geography and the climate of it, enables you to
understand the Bible better. And that's what we're doing. And that's why, for example, I don't have
any problem calling what I do biblical archaeology. Some people do, but I'm not out to prove or disprove
my ideal biblical archaeology. What I'm doing is I'm trying to use the archaeological remains to
understand the cultures and peoples who live in the regions in which the Bible was formed. And this
is both Israel, Palestine, Canaan, how you want to call it, but also Egypt and Syria and Mesopotamia,
etc. A very broad region over a long period, let's say from the Neolithic period till the
Hellenistic period. And if you're including the New Testament up until the Roman period and beyond.
You know, it's kind of interesting. There's some people who use the Bible as a map.
Like it has all the answers. And then there are others that seems like you're not putting it off
and discarding it, but it's kind of like a spatula on the side in a way. It's kind of like,
here's a possible tool that we can use, especially when you talk about Goliath, right? This word,
Goliath. What is, we have no literary presidents where we were like, you know, in literature where
we're like, oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, we got this word Goliath. We know this. This helps us to see,
as you were talking about in your excavations, that this name may have had, I guess, proto
into European or something else that was not Semitic, that it's coming in a foreign language
that we can actually find through archaeology where there's another term. I can't remember the
term. I'm just pointing out in your presentation. This is kind of the thing you're trying to point
out is the Bible, if it is completely made, like for people who want to just throw it away and say,
no, no, no, that doesn't play any part, then why are we finding these phenomena? That's the interesting
thing. Well, I think what we have to do is we have to relate, I mean, from the point of view
of a researcher, I have to relate to the Bible as a source, which I use, and I use it critically.
And there are things that fit with my finds and there are things that don't, but it's not
saying, well, since this is an ideological take, since it's made over a long period,
I'm going to put this to the side and I'm not going to relate to it all and anything I do
is going to be biblical free. And there are scholars who suggest it, and I think that's
idiotic if you don't mind. Because you use any resource that you have, even if the resource
is complex. Listen, archaeology is complex. Archaeology, the archaeological remains represent
only a very small portion of what actually existed centuries or millennia ago. I like to use the
analogy. Imagine if you had a jigsaw puzzle with 10,000 pieces, but they only gave you 300,
which didn't connect and they didn't even give you the picture on the box.
So that's about what we get on in archaeology. We have a very limited amount of information
about the past and we have to try to recreate it and we use all the methods possible. Now,
if it was difficult, I would be an accountant. I mean, if it was difficult and I gave up, I would
be an accountant. It's difficult and it's enjoyable and it's a challenge. And any aspect of trying to
learn about the past is a challenge. And I have to use the resources that I have, textual or other,
as much as I can, recognizing their limitations, recognizing their complexity, and try to weave
it all together into a coherent picture. What do you do? Final question on this. I'd love to
move on to another subject matter. What do you do with archaeologists who are kind of evangelicals?
And they're serious archaeologists. They're credentialed. They are serious archaeologists,
but there are limitations, as you spoke about, where the Bible, there are many places where
you'll find maybe it does give us some evidence here. But then they go all the way and they will
find a way to make the Bible be the interpreter of the data so that it does not flop and it does not
fail. What do you say to that? Well, first of all, anybody does what he wants to do. I'm not
going to stop anybody from doing anything. That's not my job in life. And if you use the biblical
text as your black and white roadmap of what you're finding and what you're not finding,
then I'll disagree with them. I will use all the resources at my disposal. Listen, if I was a historian
dealing with the Middle Ages, and I had three texts, and one text was important to me from a
national point of view. Let's say I'm British and I use the myths of King Arthur and I relate to
the myths of King Arthur as very, very central because they're important to me from a national
point of view. Now, I'm not trying to offend anybody and say that the Bible is King Arthur's
myths, but I'm saying if you have one text and you say that is the primary text and that is what's
my business, I think as a researcher, it's a mistake. You have to always compare your sources,
and you have to be unabashedly critical towards everything, not towards the Bible only and say,
oh, he's a Bible basher. Don't pay attention to him. This is what sometimes the evangelical
says. No, I'm a basher of everything. I'm critical of everything. I only use things after I look at
them critically. Whether it's the biblical text, what's at the archaeological remains,
whether it's another report written by another archaeologist, I want to be critical. That's
what a scientist has to be, is all the time critical. Checking himself and checking others,
and rechecking yourself and rechecking others are never accepting things just because someone said it.
I think that's the way we have to go. Thank you so much. I appreciate that.
Can you comment on the origins of Israel as a people? Where do you stand, I guess, to be more
specific on this particular one? Where do you stand on the issue of early Israelite formation as it
pertains to city dwellers or pastoral nomads, i.e., Dr. Finkelstein and Dr. Dever, and their
difference here? Where would you put yourself? I think it's more than Israel Finkelstein and Bill
Dever. There's three basic approaches to understanding the early Israelites. One is the
traditional biblical explanation of an invasion led by Joshua, or someone who comes in and captures
the various Canaanite cities, goes north, south, etc., and gets everybody to land in. There's a
second point of view, which is also hinted to in the Bible, particularly in the book of Judges,
that there was a process of slow settlement of non-sedentary pastoral elements, whether coming
from outside the country or whether coming inside the country, and settling down in the marginal
areas, slowly building up the villages and then eventually becoming a state. Then there's a third
approach, which was originally started by two scholars by the name of Mendenhall and Gottwold,
who claimed that the Israelites are in fact Canaanites who left the Canaanite cities and went
into the highlands because they were running away for whatever reasons to form this new group called
the Israelites. Now, as always, life is not white and black. It's always much more complex.
It's either, you could even say it's gray, or there's the famous Jewish theologian and Rabbi
Manonese who say there's the golden path. It's like the middle, the middle is the golden path. So
it's always a combination of different things. And I think the ancient Israel is comprised of
a multitude of various people. Some people came from outside, some from the north, some from the
south, some came from within the highlands. They were nomads who settled down at the time,
and some came from within the Canaanite cities or culture. Now, why do I say that? Because when you
look at the early Israeli remains, you can see cultural influences from all kinds of areas.
This is embedded in the early biblical texts. This is embedded in the archaeological remains.
This is embedded, for example, when you look at early Israelite religion, there's a lot of Canaanite
aspects in early, you know, early religion. So you have all kinds of influences coming from
all kinds of places. Now, this also, it seems that this process was a much longer process
than a thought. So for example, the appearance of the Israelites is not something that just occurred
around 1200, and then they were there, and that's it. Rather, if you look at the, just take one aspect,
the end of the Canaanite cities, the Leiprons-age Canaanite cities. So some cities of Leiprons-age
Canaan ended yet in the 13th centuries. For example, Hatzor, the largest city in Canaan,
apparently was destroyed somewhere around 1250. And then there's all kinds of cities, many of
them are abandoned or destroyed in the sometime in the 12th century, such as Lachish and Gezer and
others. But for example, Megiddo, one of the larger Canaanite cities, apparently isn't destroyed
till somewhere in the mid-late 11th century BCE. That's almost 200 years later. So you have this
long process in which the Leiprons-age world of Canaan is changing. And the same thing goes for
the people in the highlands, in what we call the West Bank or Judea and Samaria. These people,
we always call the Israelite tribes, they're settling down and going through a process. But
who are they? Who is this name Israel? They're probably comprised of all kinds of small family
groups, identity groups, who slowly coalesce. And at some stage, probably in the 10th or 9th
century, form larger political entities, whether it's the Kingdom of Israel or the Kingdom of
Judah. But I'll give you an example, the name Israel. That's an astounding problem because
it's mentioned once in the Merneptak Stela from about 1210. When Merneptak, the king of Egypt,
the son of Ramses II, tells us that among other things, he destroyed the people of Israel.
It's spelled like Israel, with an R at the end and not an L because the Egyptians
didn't have an L-like letter at that time. And that's the first mention. There's one other
mention that someone suggested earlier, but nobody said that. And then Israel isn't mentioned
till much later. And in fact, it's like we have hundreds of years of it's not being mentioned.
And all kinds of other terms are used. And then, for example, Israel, the name is then taken on
by the Judahites. So the whole use of this term Israel is very complex. So there probably were
all kinds of other names of groups who formed in this region during this time. And again,
I think they formed from a complex coalescence comprised of all kinds of local and foreign
groups who came together. I think the traditions about Aram, for example, Jacob coming from Aram,
might be reflected there. The traditions of coming from the desert, the traditions of coming
from Egypt, the traditions of the Canaanite traditions, all this is mixed together in this
very, very composite group. And when you look at the Israelite story, it seems to be a composite.
Yeah, this is fascinating. I love this. It's way more complex for our average viewer who just
wants the answer. Just give me the answer. So this next question is on my really good
point. 20 years, I'll give you the answer. Give me 120, right? Just need a little bit
longer, that's all. A couple of lifetimes. My good friend, Dr. Joshua Bowen, actually
formulated this question. And he's a wonderful friend. He wrote a book, actually called The
Atheist Handbook to the Old Testament. And his whole point was, you know, he deals with a lot
of fundamentalists and stuff. He loves the Bible. He also is a seriologist. So he loves
getting into this stuff. And his point was, Derek, you see, if you could ask him this simple question,
it's because it's obviously simple. In dealing with some evangelicals or fundamentalist Christians,
there are some arguments that attempt to explain the appearance of Philistine,
I used to say. Philistine is how I actually was corrected by Dr. Mary.
Yeah, it's the redneck little country southern boy in me that wants Philistine, you know.
But the Philistine in the book of Genesis, how would you address attempts to explain their
appearance in Genesis as historically reliable, or maybe they're not, it's not historically
reliable, and that Genesis dates till later? How do you address this? Okay, well, this ties into
all kinds of interesting questions. For example, what does the patriarchal narratives,
what period does it reflect? Some people say it reflects early periods, the early Bronze Age,
the middle Bronze Age or late Bronze Age. Some people say it reflects various stages of the
Iron Age. And for example, there's a very, there's a lot of people who would claim that the patriarchal
narratives reflect actually the period of the judges, the formation of the people in Israel.
And then there are those who say that the, the, the, the priestly narratives are much later,
you know, from, from late, late, the Iron Age or even post-Iron Age. Now,
in either case, when, when the biblical narrative is describing the region of the
Northwestern Nagy, that's where Grar is, that's where the story of Abraham against the Philistines
is, that's a region that during the Iron Age, the Philistines lived there. So if the Philistines
live there, that means that if you want to describe this region, so people will recognize it.
So you describe it as Philistia, as Philistine territory, as a place where there's a Philistine
king and et cetera. So it's, it's, I think that most probably what you're getting here is, you
know, I'll tell you what, if you look at a, a Renaissance painting of a biblical scene,
the people are dressed as people in the Renaissance. Why? Because if not, the people who in the
Renaissance who were looking at the painting didn't understand what was going on. So if you
talk about Abraham in the area where the Philistines live now, let's say I'm in the Iron Age, I'm in
the eighth century, and I'm hearing a story about our, my patriarch Abraham, and he lives in the,
in the Northwestern Nagy. So that's, that's where the Philistines live. Now the, the, the people who
had the story did have access to the, to text resources that could tell them that actually
there was a Canaanite kingdom at Haror, and that was the person who was there, you know,
they had no, there's no information on this. So they're trying to put it into terms that will
make sense for, for the reader. Now there have been people who said that the Philistines in the
time of, of Abraham actually reflect evidence that we have of connections between the Minoan
culture of Middle Bronze Age Greece, and there are some objects from the Minoan culture that
have been found in the Middle Bronze Age sites of the Northwestern Nagy, but that doesn't fit in.
We don't have any other evidence of groups such as the Philistines that live in this region in the
Middle Bronze Age or in the Late Bronze Age. The Philistines as a cultural phenomena, as, as
groups that came in or appeared in the very early Iron Age are only during the Iron Age. You can
talk about Philistines before, and it just simply doesn't fit in with the archaeological remains.
Now you can say it, but there's no basis for it. Simply put, thank you so much. I really appreciate
that answer. My question is, and this is kind of a big can of worms we might rattle into just for a
little bit, is how do the Philistine play a role in the unification or formation of Israel as a
nation? The biblical narrative plays it out as if the formation of Israel as a nation in the
particular most common sense is that this is because of the Exodus from Egypt. But did the
Philistines actually play the real role in this development while the Exodus is kind of a foundation
myth for the nation? So while I'm not discrediting cultural memory, and it's kind of like the snowball
rolling downhill, it picks up another narrative, and this becomes a foundation myth like Ronald
Hendel. I've interviewed Dr. Hendel. Love him. He's awesome. My question is, with your archaeological
work in the Philistine understanding, do you think that there's actually more
reality to the development of Israel as a nation in their conflict or their interaction with Philistine
rather than this motif we see from the Exodus that they're being deported? I will admit, we know
that Egypt was ruling these areas for a long time, so there's probably some impact here that
still allows it to relate to their origins. But I wonder if there's more reality to the origins of
Israel from Philistine interaction. Okay. Well, first of all, it's a great question, very complex,
as you said. I don't think it's a can of worms, but it has a lot of aspects to it. Now, first of all,
in the biblical texts, we get the definite picture that one of the main reasons for the
formation of the early Israelite monarchy, Saul and David, is due to the pressure from the Philistines.
So even if the biblical text reflects later memories of that period, we have a feeling that
the Philistines were pressuring the early Israelite monarchies or the Israelite
groups, and that caused them to organize to try to form
polities that could effectively counter the threat coming from Philistia. And we do know
that in the 11th and 10th century BCE, the late Iron I and the early Iron Age 2A,
the time which, if we go according to a biblical chronology, would be right before and during the
time of the United Monarchy. And I think there was a David and Solomon, as I don't think Solomon
ruled an empire from the Euphrates to the Nile, but there definitely was a David and a Solomon.
They had a small kingdom around Jerusalem, but there was a kingdom, and I think they were pressured
by the Philistines. And for example, the city of God, which at that period is the largest fortified
city in the entire land of Israel, probably was the most important and most powerful city state
in the region, and probably pressured the Israelites and the early Judahites. I have no doubt about
it. Now, on the other hand, the appearance of the Philistines culture, which in my opinion,
some of them came by migration, some of them, by the way, were local Canaanites, they started to form
as a culture around slightly before, slightly after 1200, which is just about the same time
that the Israelites began to form, the Israelite culture in the Highlands. So more or less at
the same time, you have these groups starting to coalesce into the various identity groups that they,
and the policies that they later became. Now, in the early phases, the Philistines
seemed to have a more complex, technologically advanced, and organized society. So they probably had
in any altercation with the Israelites an advantage. So it could very well be that we have a combination
of the one hand, we have the processes that brought the Philistines and brought the Israelites
to form their groups in the initial stage of the Iron Ages, and later on in the Iron Age,
let's say 100 to 200 years later, because of the pressure of the Philistines towards the Israelites
in other regions, maybe that caused the Israelites to start organizing into more, I would say,
politically organized and coherent groups, which eventually led to the Kingdoms,
the Northern and the Southern Kingdom, maybe a small United Kingdom before that. But that was,
I think, part of the reason for their formation was the Philistine pressure. I think there were
other reasons as well, other things that were going on, because you have to remember the Iron Age,
the early Iron Ages, a period in which it's sort of in dark ages. We sort of are living a period
of 100, 150 to 200 years between the collapse of the late Bronze Age world in the entire Eastern
Mediterranean, and the appearance of the various small national states, Judah, Israel, Amun, Moab,
the various Aramean states, et cetera, around 10th, 9th century. And that lasts for a couple
centuries until the Assyrians appear. Now, all this was occurring, and it wasn't just because
the Philistines and the Israelites. There was a wider picture going on here, and all kinds of things
were going on international trade, and the threat from the Assyrians coming, and all this together
was causing things to move. But I do think that the Philistines had probably an important part
in the background for the formation of the of the Israelite states, the Israelite kingdoms.
Now, about the Exodus, I do agree. I think the Exodus is a combination of various memories from
the past, and memories is a very complex issue. You know, you could, you could, every, you know,
very often people would think of memories as, you know, we have a memory in our head,
and it's basically, if we can get to the right filing cabinet, we'll pull out that
VCR, and we'll be able to see what happened in the past. That's not what occurs. Every time you
think of a memory, you change it. You remember, you remember some things, you forget some things,
and you add some things. So the same thing goes for long time historical memory. Now,
the Exodus probably reflects all kinds of aspects of the of the past of the Israelites
and people that they they associated with, and probably at some point, the Israelites chose
to focus on one aspect of the Israelite memory, because if we're saying the Israelites came from
all kinds of places, so for some reason, they chose to accentuate the part of coming from Egypt,
or if you, some will say, to invent the part, I don't think they invented, I think there was a
small component that that came from Egypt, and some have suggested very interestingly,
that that the Levites, the part of the priests, many of them have Egyptian names. So maybe
that's one of the portions of Israel that came from Egypt, and for some reason,
that was turned into the central facet of the formation of Israel. And you know,
there's a very nice term called invented past. That means that a country, a group, will take
memories from the past and make it meaningful for their present. And very often, what happens
is a group will take something and accentuate it. Now, a very nice example is when you look at
the coronation of a king in England. You know, recently, not too long ago, we had one of the
princes of that marriage. Now, you think all these things are something that go back to the time of
at least Henry VIII. You know, this is how they've been doing it in England, you know. And it turns
out from historical studies, it's all stuff that was invented in the 19th century, thinking that
this is what should have been done in the past. And now that's become the long-term British history
of things. So I think the same thing goes for things like Exodus. There is some historical
kernel from it. And at some point, that historical kernel was accentuated and preferred over other
aspects of the story. I do think it's interesting factoring in like documentary hypothesis and
stuff like people who will say, look at the different stories that the redactor put together.
I mean, some are actual contradictory. So your position there is quite interesting if we take
the archaeology and we're to, let's say, overlay this idea to the text. Some redactors saw many
voices probably. No, you better keep our Malachite memory there that Joseph was sold by the amount.
No, you got to keep the Ishmaelites. And like, and they kept the traditions, even if they contradicted,
because we don't, this is, that's anachronistic, I think. Like, who is Moses' stepfather, or
father-in-law, right? Is it Jethro? Take into account that very often in ancient texts,
they didn't mind adding things. You know, when an ancient scribe would rewrite,
recopy a text, he had no problem adding in or changing because he thought he's doing the right
thing. So I think our concept of the pure or text, the ancient text and how it should be,
et cetera, is something that was not a problem at the time. So if we had all kinds of things,
yeah, we'll put it together and that's what we have and deal with it, you know.
I like that Levite point you brought up that's really interesting, because, you know, priests
seem to be the central focus of a lot of this literature. I mean, they, it seems like they're
the ones who have a special type of religion as well, whereas the common folk have their
shrines and idols to all these different gods, even altars where they shouldn't,
as I've seen Dr. Dever kind of show these things. They've got their asherapole,
all sorts of fun stuff, I guess you could say, looking at it. But I wondered if, and I'm throwing
this out there, this might be like your way off, but that's okay. Some people like to think there's
a memory with this Hixos Egyptian exile. And I just wondered if maybe one of these groups
settled and finally they left Egypt and they were like, you know what, here's another memory.
You know, without being literally historically true, because if you try to take the Hixos expulsion
as it literally was, no, that doesn't fit the narrative and the data, it doesn't fit. But
they would have been priests like they would have known a lot of the high functioning religious,
I guess, these religious cultic practices. What are your thoughts?
Well, I've written about this. I think that my opinion about the exes is a combination of memories
of connections between the people who lived in Canaan or Israel and Egypt over many, many
periods and centuries. So for example, one of the groups who went from Canaan to Egypt and then
eventually were kicked out are the so-called Hixos. And so that might have created one level of
stratum of memory about leaving Egypt. And then there were connections between
Israel and Egypt throughout the Late Bronze Age and throughout the Iron Age. So I think there's a
lot of various memories. Now, people's cultures have an extraordinary ability to remember long-term
memories selected. And they don't remember the whole picture. And there are, in Australia,
the native aborigines, the so-called aborigines, have what's called the dream time, where they
talk, where they tell stories. And some of the stories have been shown to relate to geological
events thousands of years ago. So they're remembering an event and they're telling the story over and
over. And oral histories have an extraordinary ability to recount information. And it doesn't
have to be accurate. But nevertheless, you do remember something that occurred and you're passing
this on. And you'll pass it on for 100 years or 500 years or 1,000 years. And then the person will
be telling that story 500 years later, will then add in something that occurred in his time. And
then 500 years later, you'll have the story combining the two because how can you even differentiate
between them? So I think the Exodus stories really reflects many a strata of memories between,
of connections between Egypt and Canaan, Egypt and Israel throughout many, many centuries and millennia.
Wow. What is the oldest, if I could, maybe you may not know the answer to this, but it would be fun
to get your thoughts about where you personally stand. What is the oldest data that we can
archaeologically match biblically to some degree, even if it's not like here's the Xerox, this is
actually the case exactly. You talk about in some of your lectures and in your writings, I've read a
few of your articles just to get a little hint at some of the stuff you deal with. And we can see,
you know, some of these prophets existed, some of these kings, you talked about David and Solomon
existing, but I'm using like people existing kind of sort of idea here. Moses, Abraham, did they
actually have to exist? Like where in your thinking? We don't have any texts that mentions Moses or
mentions Abraham. But for example, the name Moses is an Egyptian name. So people have given
Egypt explanations of the meaning of it from an Egyptian point of view. The name Abraham is a
Semitic name, and we do have early texts that mention similar names. So, but we don't have,
I had a teacher in the Hebrew University who would say Abraham didn't exist, but his cousin Abraham
exists. So, you know, they fit in with the cultural environment we know of. Now, the earliest figure
that we can appear in an ancient text, an extra biblical ancient text, is David. David is mentioned,
not as from a text of his period, but from 150 years or so later, the Tel Don
Stila, written in Aramaic, probably by Chazael the king of Aram Damascus. He put up a Stila
apparently when he captured the city of Don in northern Israel. And among other things, he mentioned
that he killed the king of the house of David. So 150 years more or less after the time of David,
it tells us that people in that region recognize the kingdom of Judah as having a founding figure
by the name of David. So that's the earliest figure that we can talk about that appears in a
biblical text. And then we have mentions of Ahab and, you know, one of the most important kings
of the kingdom of Israel and other figures going down the line, you know, along the way. And I would
say the later on you go in the Iron Age, the more we have figures that are mentioned. And this goes
for figures mentioned in Assyrian texts, figures mentioned in epigraphic inscriptions found in the
land of Israel, whether the various seals, the Bula, or the actual seals and other inscriptions.
And then once you go into the, let's say, from the 9th century onwards, there's such a nice
correlation between at least the general scheme of history and periods and kings that we get from
the biblical texts and the extra biblical finds that there's no problem with that. It's not an
invented history at that point. Now, once you start going back in the 10th and 11th and 12th
and earlier periods, that's where some things are completely unclear. And but, you know, it's not,
it's not that, you know, some people say, well, the whole history, the whole biblical text is
all invented, and then there's nothing historical about it. And it's more or less like reading
Tolkien. It's not that, but rather, from a certain point onwards, the framework of history, of events,
of people, of kings, etc., that's portrayed in the Bible, fits in well with the extra biblical text.
It doesn't mean that, you know, for example, in the biblical text, it tells us that Sinakari besieged
Jerusalem, you know, ruled by King Hezekiah. And then for some miraculous reason, the Assyrian
army left and, you know, the angel of God came or something like that. Now, that's not what happened.
We have other texts which tell us a different story, but it doesn't mean that the, it's not
denying the historical framework that's presented in the biblical text. It's just giving us other
details that then the biblical text gives us. Wow. I'm reminded of a comment made from another guy,
Russell Gamerican, is his name. And he made this connection, for example, where Shaman,
these are the third, there's like a list of his riches and what he had with golden chariots,
and this and that. And it looks a lot like the list given to King Solomon. Whereas,
reality, maybe they saw these other people and said, you know, we got to give our king our fame
and compare, you know, there's this like competition of narrative that you might be like,
no, we want our king to rule this huge monarchy and David ruled this, you know, they kind of
bellish the past. Well, I think, I think there was embellishment of the past. Everybody embellishes
the past, you know, you know, if you look at George Washington and, you know, any, any story
even a relatively recent past is embellished. And probably when describing a king, such as Solomon,
so you describe them as some major emperor, like we know from the Assyrian or Babylonian or Persian
Empire, that's true. On the other hand, you have to be careful not to think that the biblical
the people who wrote the Bible, the various, you know, places that it was written, you know,
new Assyrian and new Babylonian read and read the old text, et cetera, you know, copy things.
It's, it's, I would say it's probably more complex than that. But I definitely think there is a lot
of influence from the Assyrian, from the Egyptian, from the Babylonian, from the Persian cultural
words that do reflect and also, and if you're talking about Russell Mirkin, also from the,
from the Greek world that do reflect in the biblical texts at various stages.
Thank you so much. I am highly, you know, impressed with this. This has been a blast.
And I hope that we can have you come back to take a deep dive. We're coming upon our hour here soon.
And I didn't want to, you know, I didn't want you to go, it's that guy again. Oh, you know,
he wants to go on and on. So once again, everybody needs to go get the got. Is it got,
am I pronouncing that right? Got, yeah. So there's got to go to God. You got to go. Hey,
you got to go there. Seriously, go get this book. If you want to really educate yourself and look
at what this is, I would say that there's two issues of Near Eastern archaeology, which are,
which is a slightly more popular oriented text, two issues from the end of 2017 and 2018,
which have a whole slew of articles on on the excavations. And by the way, if you go to my
website, that right over there. So first of all, there's a lot of pictures and stories and and
jokes about what goes on the text. But there's also a lot of resources of how to read to read
about the what we do on the site. So I highly recommend you go there. And finally, I'll make
a plug, I have a an online course in biblical archaeology, what's called a MOOC, a massive open
online course, which is through the edx.org platform. And it's actually running now to the
beginning of March. And if you want a a it's eight lessons in which you get an introduction to
archaeology and to the archaeology of ancient Israel and Judah. Highly recommended. Take it,
you'll have a great time. So is it on here on this website? Well, if you go up, you know, go into a
new, you know, and write just write in edx.org, biblical archaeology, and you'll get to it.
So we just go here and
biblical archaeology.
Let's go in the search in the search. Oh, oh, oh, oh, sorry. Biblical archaeology.
Yeah, you're saying they're right in there. See what we have. Okay. And then this is it. Start
in mold. That's running there. And it's this is, I believe it's fifth run, and it's going on till
March 2nd. If I'm mistaken, so you still have a month and a bit.
If you're if you're interested in going on, and even after it's the running, you can go into it.
It's archived. It's a lot of fun. I highly recommend it. And and so far, about 9000 people
throughout the world have taken it. And everybody enjoyed it. That's awesome. And you're running it.
So everybody has to go check that out. Oh, you can go and join the course, of course. And
please go down in the description. All of these links will be down there for you to access it.
I really want you to come back. That's why I don't want to burn this candle out. I want to I want
to give you the opportunity to go. This was fun. So okay, okay, we'll think of something to talk about.
Thank you so much, Dr. Mayor. Everybody watching, let us know what you think down in the comments
section. Tell us your thoughts. Maybe you have some interesting questions. Consider joining
Myth Visions Patreon, because if you do, you can actually go and help support us. You can write me
your questions. I'd be happy to try and take them maybe for the next interview that we have. A lot
of these interviews are not made public. They are there specifically for you and eventually might
find their way to YouTube. There's no telling how long. But this video, once you see it on YouTube,
like I said, go write me messages and the next time we meet up, I will ask your questions to Dr.
Mayor and see what he has to say. Can't promise you he's going to tell you what you like to hear,
but he's going to do his best to tell you what he thinks. You are wonderful. And I'll be in Israel
in October, by the way. So maybe COVID allowing. Yeah, we don't know what's going to happen,
but I might be over there with Dr. James Tabor, and he wants to show me some places that Jesus
may have walked and all that cool stuff. So I look forward to maybe possibly, we don't know,
we'll see, maybe bumping in. Okay, great. Thank you so much. And ladies and gentlemen,
don't forget we are MythVision.
