Help MedVision keep bringing you material by becoming a Patreon member, as well as PayPal.
Like, share, subscribe, and comment.
Join the Patreon to get early access to videos and check out the website.
We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision Podcast, your host, Derek Lambert.
I have a wonderful treat for you guys today.
We have the creator of the website, History for Atheist.
Tim O'Neill is joining us today.
And I want everyone to know History for Atheist, okay?
He is an atheist.
He's not a Christian.
Nothing wrong with Christians. Please do not take this an attack, okay?
I just want you to understand that the gentleman is not a believer in Jesus,
or having faith in Christianity in any shape or form.
And in his website, which you guys definitely need to go down in the description right now,
check it out, it's really pretty too.
He spends a lot of time giving you visual effects for people like me who need coloring books and crayons.
And you can enjoy learning history, which I was just going through your Alexandria blog,
where you talk about some of the real history behind the burning of the library,
which we'll get into that question at some point.
I hope to at least get that one question talked about, but we got to do a whole show on this.
So with that being said, welcome to the show, Tim O'Neill, and thank you for joining me.
Good to be here. Welcome to the future.
I'm in Sydney, Australia, so it's Saturday morning.
Yeah, I think you're 14 hours or something ahead of me.
I want everyone to know right now, I've been on a journey,
trying to understand who or what this Jesus Christ figure is in history.
The question of the historicity of Jesus was such a, like,
I guess when you're, I was a Calvinist at one point, and when I became a Calvinist,
I went through this phase of called caged Calvinism.
Bash everybody with predestination, like, it's all I could think about.
It was all or nothing, and I couldn't understand why my pastor wasn't, you know,
realizing how extreme this doctrine was.
God might have created evil and good and, you know, all these things and their questions that came up.
The same thing happened to me when I started to question the historicity of Jesus.
It was all or nothing, and I want my audience who's watching this.
If you are a mythicist, to just take it easy, okay?
Just understand not everybody thinks the same way we do when we've come to these things,
and I'm no longer a mythicist.
I'm no longer, I'm not a historicist either at this point.
I truly entertain both sides.
I can totally see there being historical Jesus.
I want you to know that, guys.
Don't be dogmatic, be open-minded, shifting with the evidence.
If there wasn't a guy, they did a damn good job painting one, okay?
So here's the deal.
I want you guys to be patient with Tim O'Neill today.
We're going to talk about mythicism.
I know there's been a lot of polemics out there back and forth between Tim and other mythicists,
but I really want to mediate, and I want to learn because everyone can be learned from.
I'm telling you guys.
So with that being said, Tim, tell me if you don't mind.
Can I call you Tim?
Yes, sir.
Okay.
Tim, talk to me.
Tell me what you've seen, a little background on mythicism.
Were you a mythicist?
What got you into the conversation, if you will?
This will be an initial show, and then I want our audience to know we are not going to spend
every show talking about this topic.
We are going to move on to some awesome other topics that are important about history.
So thank you so much.
Okay.
Well, again, thanks for having me on.
I love talking about this topic.
How did I come across mythicism?
I was raised a Christian, though not a very fanatical one at all.
But if you'd asked me at the age of about 16 or 17, are you a Christian?
I probably would have said yes.
I wasn't particularly good at practicing it, particularly the sexual stuff.
I was really bad at that.
So I was a believer.
And I remember probably the event that triggered my interest in the whole question of the
historicity of Jesus and the origins of Christianity was I was at high school and I was sitting on the
sidelines of a conversation which turned into a bit of a debate once time between our school's
most evangelical Baptist and the guy who was an agnostic.
She was really annoying.
He was a quite cool guy.
So it was quite an interesting little encounter.
And she kept saying Jesus said this and Jesus was that and Jesus did this.
And he kept saying, how do you know?
And as a guy who was already quite interested in ancient medieval history, I thought that was a really good
question.
How do you know?
The one I had never actually asked.
We're always told the gospel say this and you think, okay, well, that's recorded.
So that's what he did.
He kept doing this and he kept saying, how do you know?
And he was saying things like, well, the gospels weren't written down until 200 years later, which is not true.
But it made me realize that I couldn't answer his question.
She couldn't either.
She was hopeless.
But I couldn't answer his question.
That bothered me.
I don't like not knowing stuff.
So I then went off to find out.
I went off to discover how we could possibly know.
And that began what was a journey of many, many years.
And by the time I got to university and was studying history at university, this had become kind of a hobby of mine.
The origins of Christianity.
And I came to realize that Jesus was not what Christianity claimed.
You refer to him as Jesus Christ before, for example, I never call him Jesus Christ because Christ is not a name.
It's a claim.
It's a title.
I don't believe Jesus was the Christ, which means Messiah in any sense.
So I began a multi-year journey of reading an analysis to work out how can we know.
In the process, I did get to a point where I thought, well, it's pretty clear that large chunks of the gospel stories are not true.
They didn't happen.
I mean, the birth stories, for example, are clearly made up.
The trial story is obviously a fiction.
There's a whole lot in there and walking on water, feeding 5,000 people didn't happen.
So I kind of thought, well, okay, if any of it isn't true, maybe all of it's not true.
So I did contemplate the concept of was there a historical Jesus at all.
And mythicism is not a new idea.
It's been around for several centuries.
But in fairly well-developed form, it's been around for at least 100 years.
So I had a look at that stuff and I read Albert Schweitzer's analysis of what the state of the question 100 years ago is quest for the historical Jesus.
And in the end, I came to the conclusion that there was a historical God.
And I started to look forward to around about the late 90s.
And where I was, I was hanging out on various internet groups that existed at that point, particularly, you know, all atheism and a few others on news groups.
And I started to see mythicism rearing its head.
And on the conspiracy websites and on conspiracy discussion boards.
But then it started to bleed over into the atheist discussion boards.
I started to see lots of stuff by Earl Doherty, who was a was a leading the thesis of that point.
And then along came the new atheism so long came Dawkins Hitchens and and Sam Harris.
And then the explosion of blogs and then later video channels and discussion boards about atheism.
And that's where I really started to see mythosism starting to come on in a very strong way.
Richie Carrier was pushing mythosism of his version of Doherty's arguments.
Bob Price has been around for many, many years.
And I'm excited that there was the one called Acharya S, the sort of the new age wing of mythosism and and the movie Zeitgeist that was largely based on Acharya S's stuff.
And so there were a lot of atheists who were jumping on the mythosist bandwagon.
And so I began to point out the problems that I saw with mythosism and to present why the vast majority of scholars, I mean, the overwhelming majority of scholars do not accept mythosism.
That's not an argument, but it's just a fact.
So I found myself debating mythosism on a fairly regular basis across across sorts of future times with Carrier and with Doherty and with various of their defenders.
So right about that time, I also know there was a whole lot of other bad history being peddled by atheists on those on those channels.
You mentioned the burning of the Great Library of Alexandria by Christians, which gets cited all the time, despite the fact it didn't happen.
There's the the assassination of her patient of Alexandria because she was a wise and learned scholar and Christians hated that.
Again, that that's nonsense.
A whole lot of nonsense about about Galileo about Geodana Bruno about various other topics.
So I started the history for atheists blog because really because I got tired of repeating myself debunking the same myths and countering the same arguments, and particularly with mythosism countering the same stuff that gets trotted out.
Over and over again.
And I'm a busy guy, you know, I've got a fairly successful career. This is my hobby.
So I thought if I start a blog, I'll write some fairly comprehensive quite long articles that go through these topics one by one.
So I only have to do it once.
And then on Twitter or whatever I can just say, okay, but no, that doesn't work.
And here's why I linked to it.
So that's really the origins of history for atheists in the process, I suppose it's also made me, and I like this, but it's made me go and look at these arguments very, very carefully, and go into a great deal of debt.
The average length of one of my articles on my blog is about 10,000 words.
So it's pretty substantial stuff.
It means I only post about once a month, if that, but it also means that I can, I can be reasonably comprehensive on these topics. So I have a series of articles on my blog called the Great Myth series which is tackling things like the Great Library and Gala layer.
And I have another series called Jesus Mythosism. I'm up to about I think seven articles on that one.
This is a fascinating topic here. I mean, it's awesome to see that you've been engaging for quite some time. And I'm sure that some of our more staunch mythosist, if you will, will probably say cognitive dissonance is working hard for Tim.
Tim just doesn't want mythosism to be true.
You just want there to be a guy, and you have no real good reasons, you know, you can only imagine the mindset.
I don't have to imagine I hear it all the time. And I get emails to that effect and I get comments on Twitter and so on to that effect. That's not true.
I seriously do not care if Jesus existed or not, because when I'm talking about Jesus, I'm not talking about the magic guy who walked on water and who's the figure of Christianity.
I'm talking about a Jewish preacher called Yeshua, because Jesus is just an English version of a Latin version of a Greek version of that Aramaic name, which was a very common name at the time.
I'm talking about this guy, Yeshua. He seems to have come from Nazareth. He seems to have preached kind of an apocalyptic end of the world message, got crucified.
Either he thought he was Messiah or his followers came to think he was. He then got deified over a period of about 50 years after his death, and he's now a figure of a major religion.
But the Jesus I'm talking about is a Jewish preacher of a kind of which there were many at the time.
So if someone were to turn around and show me some new evidence, I doubt this is going to happen, but if some new evidence were to appear that proved to me or showed to prove that showed pretty clearly that it's unlikely he existed.
I just struck and said, okay, fair enough. I don't care.
So I don't believe in anything to do with Christianity.
But, or if someone were to present a new version of the, the, of the mythos position based on the current material or current evidence that we have that is more convincing than what I've seen from say Robert Price or nobody or Richie Carrier, then I'd say sure I can say okay, no problem.
Let me ask you.
Let me, I love that you don't care and I can tell, even in our discussion it's not a matter of, you do care about history, you do care about being correct.
Exactly.
Yeah.
Yeah, I think sometimes people mistake my passion for, for good historical analysis and objective unbiased historical analysis for a passion for belief in Jesus.
Um, I don't, as I said, just said, I don't care, but you fit the nail on the head. I do care about bad history.
And that's the common theme in my, in my blog and it's been something that I've, I've cared about for many, many years.
So I spent, I have spent a lot of time debating Holocaust denies.
Now I'm not saying mythos or anything like Holocaust denies, but in both cases though, they are similar in this.
In both cases, it seems to be that there is a strong ideological and therefore emotional bias, turning people towards what I would argue is, in both cases, a bad historical thesis.
And many of those people in both those cases are very sincere, not all Holocaust denies are evil Nazis, though many of them are.
But many of them think, I sincerely think that they've discovered a great truth about history and get quite passionate about it.
And it's the same with mythosism.
I think many of those people are not ferocious anti-Christians, but many of them are.
But many of them do think that they've discovered something, something amazing that everyone should know.
My problem with, with, with both those is that, is that it seems to be that that emotion is skewing them towards some bad arguments.
And so I'm trying to show them why those arguments are bad.
But back to the point about, but do I, do I care about whether or not Jesus existed.
I have always seen and repeatedly say, and every time I have one of these conversations, I repeat it, that the idea that there was no historical Jesus is valid.
It's possible.
It is possible that Christianity began without there being such a guy that's possible.
And sometimes people have taken me to the guy called Godless Engineer.
He doesn't like me very much.
And it's taken me out of context.
Got a little, little video clip of me saying that, and he posted whenever I posted on stuff that he doesn't like on Twitter, saying, ha, he's Timonio admitting that what we're saying is true.
I'm saying true.
I said valid.
Historical analysis is about working out which of the various many potential valid possible ideas is most likely.
So it is possible.
I would argue that it's impossible, but there was no historical Jesus, but it's don't think it's very likely for reasons that we can discuss.
Absolutely. I want to tell you upfront, I'm friends with all of these people. So this is what's amazing. You're going to find out that you're probably not friends with people I'm friends with and I'm friends with people they're not friends with which would include you and others.
And that's fine. That I'm sorry, I don't, I'm not going to let this divide me from communicating. I want to be a mediator because I want to be Jesus Christ. No, I'm just kidding.
I'm just kidding with you.
But seriously, I really appreciate that I can tell that you really want to know what's going on. You want to know the truth. And I do find this is not an argument. Please don't take this. This is not me.
I'm just going to poison the well on mythicist because I was hardcore. Like I started the channel and like that was all I thought was the case.
But I do see a lot of conspiracies that do come from that type of mindset. And I think I'm not lumping the top dogs in this. I'm not lumping the scholars who really try to do this.
What happens I think and you maybe could help me out with this before we get into some stuff because I'm sure the top arguments you can list off the top of your head that they use and maybe your responses but what I think happens is when critical scholars being critical.
It creates doubt on can we trust this and once you start realizing the water's been a little bit muddy. It's easy to say the whole thing's mud. It's just all muddy and you can't trust it but then that allows the door to be opened up to anything.
It's like all for nothing. Sorry free for all sorry. It's like anyone can make a spin of what their own version of what's going on and I've heard like I just had a show yesterday I did with Christopher Hansen.
And we talked about the astro theology version of mythicism and I was in that camp. I started for a second wondering if you know the devil's pulpit was right that the whole thing is an astrological.
I didn't know you know I don't know as much as I know now but I was thinking like it's all just like a secret metaphor of the heavens and going through the months of the year and all that kind of stuff.
And I told him that I was like what do you think do you think there's any astro theology stuff there he's yeah absolutely that's the problem. It's like when you find pieces of something that are used the whole damn thing turns into it and it's like no guys that's not the way to go about these things so
I just wanted to say that, like, as one who was a staunch mythicist to someone who's like, okay, I have good reasons to be doubtful of mythicism. I have good reasons to also be not so sure if there was a historical Jesus what did he do who was he like there's
good reasons to remain kind of skeptical and in the middle right now for me, because as I learn and gather information as you've done over the years, I guarantee you I'll come to a better conclusion, at least, and say hey I think there's more probable he didn't or did.
And I'm just shocked I went from Memphis as to where I am now and considering an apocalyptic Jewish preacher you know it's just interesting.
Well I think yeah I think you've made some really valid points and I suppose over the years in discussing this stuff and particularly in debating this stuff with with mythicists.
I'm intrigued as to why people believe things and my professional career is is very much based on analyzing people.
So I suppose I like to understand how how and why people think in certain ways what makes them tick. And so I've had a lot of conversations with mythicists about why they have come to that conclusion and why they in some cases cling to it with
any regard it is almost religious dogmatic further.
And I think you've nailed a couple of things there like one thing I have noticed and this is a generalization but not a misrepresentation. There is a lot of overlap between those very fervent.
And I don't think that's a coincidence. I think that that mythicism in that sort of that more dogmatic script of extreme view is very comforting to people who have come from the opposite extreme.
So people who have come from it's all true Jesus is Lord everything in the Bible is literally true everything in the Gospels actually happened.
If you've gone from that come from that very very extreme fundamentalist position the exact opposite is a comforting replacement.
It's none of its true Jesus didn't exist. It's all nonsense. There's nothing in there at all right now first of all it appears I think to people with a particular type of psychology.
It may be that it appeals to people who have been raised with that kind of absolutist thinking. It does seem to appeal to some people who don't like the ambiguity of humanity subjects such as history where you can't be absolute.
You can't prove things finally it's all about assessments of likelihood. There's lots of shades of great there's lots of ambiguity.
So it appeals to people who come from particularly from a very scientific background who don't like that ambiguity and mythicism takes that ambiguity away it's all crap.
So there's there's a lot of psychological stuff playing into why mythicism appeals. I also suspect that for many people it's there's a and this again is the generalization.
There's a degree of laziness. It means if you if you just say Jesus didn't exist. None of it is true. Then then all the work that you have to put in to to work out which parts of it might be true and which parts might not be which parts are later additions which parts are which is hard work.
You can just you don't have to do any of that. You can just dismiss it and just go talk right and move on and I come across a lot of people just that's the appeal of mythicism.
You can just brush the whole thing aside and get on with with other stuff like saying Christians are stupid or creationism is wrong or you know we shouldn't have we should have wider separation between church and state.
So there's a lot of different things being loaded into this. When you're talking about people like Doherty Carrier and I would argue price and then sort of the less alliance people like people like Fitzgerald and Lataster as well.
Many of these people.
I get the impression many of these people get a lot of psychological energy from being right and everyone else being wrong.
Being contrarians. Richie Carrier does strike me as someone who has a lot invested in I'm smarter than everyone else. Everyone was wrong about mythicism.
I'm right. And he's got about five or six other historical topics in which he is the only person in the world who seems to have got a right according to Richie Carrier.
So it's interesting that that there's a pattern there. Robert Price will endorse pretty much any thesis that that is contrary to the mainstream.
So even though he doesn't he doesn't he doesn't subscribe to to it at all. He endorses them.
Robert Price seems to as recently endorsed a new edition of of of Atwell's book which is I think called Caesar's Messiah, which is this thesis that Christianity was invented by the Romans.
Now he doesn't seem to actually price doesn't seem to actually believe that, but price will quite happily put his name on pretty much anything that is contrary to mainstream Christianity.
It's kind of his thing. So there is an element of contrarianism to a lot of of of mythicism, particularly at the so suppose the higher end, the people who are actually going to the effort of arguing it in detail.
And this is not to say that any of these people are not sincere. I think they absolutely are. Of course, some of them maybe a little bit too sincere.
But I think once you once you go down that rabbit hole of I've got the truth that all the scholars are wrong. And particularly when you divide it into an awesome them of Christians believe in the historical Jesus.
Then it becomes this sort of binary becomes this sort of almost mannequin binary. So I've had people say to me, we are an atheist. So why do you believe that Jesus existed?
I said, well, that's a non-secret term. I'm talking about historical Jesus. Atheism is about believing God. I don't believe in God.
I'm talking about a Jewish preacher. What's the problem? But they can't disentangle Jesus from Jesus Christ. They can't disentangle the historical Jesus from Jesus Christ.
So there's a lot of psychological drivers going on here that I think is one of the reasons why mythicism has got some traction amongst atheists, despite the fact very few, and this needs to be emphasized, a tiny handful of genuine scholars actually accepted.
Most scholars think it's a bad thesis.
You know, it's interesting you say that because if I'm going to be honest about my own, this is all subjective, and I can only speak for myself, but I wouldn't be shocked if others related.
It's hard for me to disconnect Jesus from Jesus Christ. It's very difficult. I went from an all fundamentalist angle to and all what seemed to be, I think you did assess me correctly when you said that I can't speak the same for the scholars.
I like, for example, Dr. Carrier was never one to begin with. And so there's probably different reasons for why he comes to his conclusions because it was never faith based.
But, you know, I can't read these guys minds, but you've been doing this for a long time. I figure we can shift now into some of the discussion of mythicism, some of the arguments that are made.
And I know this is my buddy, Stephen, that he mentioned to me is it's a boring topic that I don't really care about, which is the testimony in Flavinium.
I said, bro, I said, I'm beginning to get a little bit interested in this, but we'll get to this, I think, as we go. What would you say is like one of the top things you have a problem with that you think that mythicists really should reconsider.
Oh, yeah, that's an easy, probably the worst mythicist argument is probably the one that I see most often, not from the carriers and the doldies of the world, but more from your casual mythicists.
I don't know if I was referring to them as mythists, because they're kind of the guys you come across on Twitter, you know, the godless engineers.
They use this argument like there's no contemporary reference to Jesus, therefore he didn't exist.
And that is a terrible argument.
But I think it says a great deal about the low level of understanding of historiography that many people who accept mythicism are working from.
I don't mean that as an insult.
Most people don't study history past high school.
So for most people, that sounds like a good argument.
I mean, there should be references to Jesus if he existed, surely.
You know, people think, well, we've got, I've had people say to me, we've got contemporary references to Julius Caesar.
We've got some contemporary references to Alexander the Great.
Why don't we have contemporary references to Jesus?
If it was such a big deal, we should have contemporary references.
So it sounds like a plausible argument, but actually it's terrible.
I'll explain why it's terrible because if we're talking about a historical Jesus, even if we're talking about the historical Jesus of Christianity,
who did walk on water and did all that stuff.
He still was a minor Jewish preacher in a backwater of a backwater of the Eastern end of the Roman Empire.
So he was in Galilee, not even the main cities of Galilee, Sephora, for example.
He was in wandering around villages in the back blocks of Galilee, according to the Gospel.
So we're taking the Gospels at face value.
And the Gospels, let's keep in mind, are exaggerating his influence.
Even they say he became really famous throughout the whole of Galilee, which is, I'm trying to think of an American version of that.
He became really, really famous throughout the whole of the northwestern corner of Kentucky.
It's not famous.
And this is the Gospel, this is the Gospel version of Jesus.
And so even if we accept that at face value, why would anyone in Alexandria or Athens or Rome be writing about some guy,
you know, a dirty peasant preaching some incomprehensible Jewish crap, see some other dirty peasants.
That wouldn't be front page news in the actor Deirna in Rome.
Why would it be mentioned?
So there's the first problem. The second problem is the way you measure the amount we would expect to have for someone in the ancient world is by looking at analogous figures.
So if we look at say Julius Caesar, would we expect there to be contemporary references to Julius Caesar?
Well, hell yeah, he was, he was a console, he was a pot of X Maximus, he became dictator of Rome, he was effectively rule of the entire known world.
Yeah, of course we would expect because if we look at other people like him, we have contemporary references to him.
But if we look at other people like Jesus, early first century Jewish preachers, prophets, messianic climates, we have no, no contemporary references for any of them.
So whenever I come across that argument, I found that the quickest and easiest way to dispatch it is to say, can you explain to me why we should have contemporary references to Jesus
when we have none for any of the other people like him, right? You tell me why we should expect that.
And they never can because it doesn't, the argument therefore collapses. The way you construct an argument from silence is not to say we have silence and therefore this didn't happen.
What you say is we have silence, we shouldn't have silence, therefore this possibly didn't or probably didn't happen.
So the problem with that argument is there's no reason why to someone like Jesus. In fact, if anything, we have more references to him than we have to any other analogous figure at the time.
So let me, let me poke in something that I think is going to be an interesting angle on how we could discuss this because this gets into the boring topic of the testimonium a little bit.
And I figure we let's go ahead and hurdle this hill while we're at it.
Why not? Why not?
So let me try and be clever and try to phrase this this way. Okay, okay.
Tim, you're right. We have no contemporary writings. He was probably in a place where pretty much most people did not a read or write anyway.
And it's a fact. However, we do have Josephus, right? And Josephus comes later and he does mention these characters like the Egyptian and the Samaritan or Theodos and these other guys, John the Baptist, things like this.
How come he doesn't mention Jesus? And then this is where it gets interesting when they go, well, I have plenty of non-mythesis scholars that will say, look, the testimonium is complete ex nihilo.
So is the other reference to him being a brother of James.
Come on, Tim. Can't you see like wouldn't Josephus mention him? Isn't he at least in the mindset of Josephus? Wouldn't he, if he was somewhat reasonably known, wouldn't he have been on the same plane as the Egyptian or the Samaritan or something?
Like, but he doesn't mention him. What are your thoughts on that?
Okay, so maybe before we move on to Josephus, the other one that is used in a similar way is Philo of Alexandria.
Why doesn't Philo of Alexandria mention him? Well, we can dispatch that one pretty quickly. Philo of Alexandria doesn't mention anyone like Jesus.
He wasn't interested in those peasant preachers, those messianic claimants. So all the guys you just mentioned that Josephus does mention.
The Samaritan, the Egyptian prophet, John the Baptist, Annihilus.
Philo doesn't mention any of those guys either. So we can dismiss why does Philo don't mention him because he wasn't interested in guys like that.
Josephus, though, clearly was. So then the question becomes, does Josephus mention him or not? Because we do have, as you say, we have two references in the textus receptors.
So the text that we have of Josephus now, we have two references to Jesus.
The first one is in Book 18. This is the famous testimony in Flaviatum.
And that's a brief account of Jesus in Book 18. Book 18, 62 to 63, 63, 64.
And that's the first one. That's the TF, the testimony.
The second one is in Book 20. And that's the Jesus, James reference, passing reference to James being executed by the, by the Sanhedrin.
And he's identified as brother of that Jesus who was called the Christ named James.
So we've got two references to Jesus by Josephus.
The problem, of course, is everyone agrees that the first of those is at least partially fake.
Because he says things that Josephus, and this has been recognized for 500 years.
He says things that Josephus hasn't devout you will not say. He says he was the Messiah.
Well, Josephus didn't believe Jesus was the Messiah. He says he rose from the dead after three days.
Well, Josephus didn't believe that either. So obviously the text, everyone agrees that the text has been tampered with by later Christian scribes.
Where it gets complicated is how much has the text been tampered with?
So what is that a wholesale interpolation is the entire thing a forgery?
Or is it that there was a reference to Jesus which has been added to through a couple of over the centuries through a couple of elements.
The majority position on that on that these days is that it is partially authentic. That's the majority position.
But as I argue in my most recent article on my blog, you can make a good solid scholarly case for the wholesale interpolation argument.
It's a minority position, and I don't think it's persuasive personal. I don't find it persuasive, but I can see why people would.
And therefore I place almost no weight on the testimony. I don't. I acknowledge that it exists.
I then acknowledge that there's problems with how we interpret it. I acknowledge that I personally think that it's partially authentic.
But I also acknowledge that it's perfectly OK and scholarly and respectable to accept it as a wholesale interpolation.
Unlike many arguments used by mythosism, that's a mainstream position held by some very solid scholars.
I don't find it persuasive, but I do respect them.
The thing about the testimonium, it looks pretty clearly to be the kind of thing that would be interpolated because it's making clear Christian claims about the resurrection, about his status as the Messiah.
So at least those parts, everyone agrees that at least those parts are interpolations, whether the whole thing or not is as well as another issue.
But the Jesus James reference doesn't look anything like that. It's not making any claim about Jesus, about Christianity, or even about James.
Not much of one anyway. It simply says, this guy was executed, and it's a sidebar issue.
He's talking about how the high priest, Hernanben Hernan, got deposed. That's what he's talking about.
And he tells us it was triggered by some illegal executions of some guys, including the execution of this guy, James, the brother of that Jesus who was called the Messiah.
So he's not actually talking about Jesus. He's not even really talking about James. He's mentioning this stuff in passing.
It's a bit weird that a Christian would come along and insert that there. Why?
And also, if they were going to bother to insert something there, why not insert something that's actually going to have some punch?
You know, he was the brother of that guy, Jesus, who was the Messiah and rose from the dead on the third day.
Something along those lines. We've actually got a version of Josephus' Jewish wars, which was translated into Slavonic in the Middle Ages.
And they decided that the Jewish war would be spiced up quite a bit if they included some really cool stuff about Jesus, because the Jewish war doesn't mention Jesus at all.
And so they added a whole lot of stuff about Jesus and about how the high priests were evil and how we had Jews and all total nonsense and stuff that Josephus could never have written.
But that tells us what an interpolated passage looks like.
This guy, James, got executed. He was a Jesus' brother. It doesn't look like that.
He also doesn't even say that Jesus was the Messiah. He says that he was called the Messiah.
He says that the legal minimum is the word he uses. And called doesn't mean was. It just means some other people called him that.
Josephus often refers to people or identifies people by talking about what they were called and doesn't stop to explain why they were called that.
This is one of the arguments the carrier makes. Why doesn't he explain why he was called the Messiah?
Well, why doesn't he explain why a particular hill was called the eminent place?
Or why a group of guys was called the freemen? Or why this guy earlier in that same chapter was called Kabi?
He doesn't explain. So this doesn't look like a piece of interpolation by a Christian.
It serves no apologetic utility. It doesn't make any kind of point that would help Christians.
Sometimes with the society, it does. It proves that Jesus existed. No one was arguing that Jesus didn't exist.
Opponents of Christianity in the fourth, third, fourth, fifth centuries were saying that Jesus was a fraud.
They were saying that he was a magician. They were saying that he was the illegitimate son of a hairdresser and a growing soldier.
They were saying that he was an idiot. They were saying that he was a peasant. None of them were saying that he didn't exist.
So it doesn't work as an interpolation. It simply does work. It makes sense as a passing reference.
You bring up something interesting because I just did a video with Dave Allen. He's a good buddy of mine. He's on Facebook.
He's actually one of the lead guys in the mythical versus historical Jesus group.
And I just did a video of his for him because he's from Southern Ireland.
And he is of the opinion there was definitely a negative testimony in plevinium, except in it, it gives like the idea that he wasn't spoken of in a positive way.
It was more of like kind of like, look, there was this guy. He was a sophist, most likely, or something like this.
He goes to make an argument. Now it is completely speculative on reconstructing, but he makes the argument that the negative would have given maybe more material that might have been used by people prior to Christians who gained power when they interpolated the passage that was once a Jesus passage.
Jesus passage just didn't give their Lord a positive light. What is your opinion on that? And then on that note, I have to mention, because Lewis Feldman was a partial and he's a leading guy in this.
So I kind of want your opinion on him after we talk about the first negative part, if you don't mind.
So, you know, Dave, and I'll discuss this with him and he sent me a copy of his paper and it's not a bad argument, but I find it highly speculative.
The point is that that's a it's a maybe that there was a there was a negative reference that then got heavily reworked. I think it's more likely that there was a neutral reference that then got likely reworked.
There's a lot of what if you take out the, if we go with with Myers reconstruction or Giza Berners' reconstruction, which is the ones that I'm most inclined towards, if you take out the reference to him being the Messiah as a as a as a clear interpolation.
If you take out the reference to him rising from the dead as a clear interpolation and then read what's left.
There's a number of reasons why, first of all, it does read very much like something Josephus would say. So there's parallels to other Josephan language to other constructions that he uses.
You know, many of the X and many of the Y is a construction uses quite a bit about this time as an introduction to a an anecdote that he uses quite a bit.
A wise man is the term that he uses two or three other times. So there's enough in there to make it look as though that there was actually some kind of reference, but some of the language is actually a little skeptical, or at least neutral.
So he was a doer of paradoxical works. It's often translated as he was a doer of miracles or he was a doer of wondrous works, but the word that is used is paradox.
And it means works that are difficult to interpret and could be read in different ways. That's a slightly skeptical word. And it's not a word that we see in early Christian references to Jesus.
We don't see it until, until Eusebius. And we know that Eusebius knew the testimony as we have it now many people argue he created it.
I'm not convinced. But, but the fact that he uses the same words as as Alice Wealy argues, means that perhaps he is using those because he was influenced by Josephus's language paradoxical works is slightly skeptical.
I think a neutral, a neutral reference to Jesus acknowledging that he was a wise man that he won over many people so kind of a grudging respect, but also I'm not sure about this miracle stuff.
And anyway, his followers still exist to this day. That's the kind of thing that reads like, for example, it reads very much like Josephus's account of John the Baptist, which is actually quite cool and neutral as well.
It's quite different though to his descriptions of say Judas or the or the Samaritan or or the Egyptian, which is condemnatory, but those guys led uprisings or excited uprisings that were put down by the Romans militarily,
whereas John the Baptist and Jesus were both were both suppressed by Jewish authorities. So you can sort of see why they might be a neutral CF. I'm not 100%. I'm not convinced by Dave's argument.
I find it a bit too speculative. But all I'd say is that there's a plausible case that can also be made for and he's not the first to make a case for a negative reference that got rewritten.
Louis Feldman.
Okay, so just for those who don't know Louis Feldman is is probably the most preeminent Josephus scholar in the world. He died, sorry, was he don't a few years ago.
Well towards the end of his life. He always argued for partial authenticity of the testimony. And then well towards the end of his life. He wrote a an article which actually presented presented arguments for both partial authenticity and for wholesale interpolation.
But in the end he came down on the side of wholesale interpolation. And that caused a bit of a stir.
It was a bit of a surprise, but for an eminent scholar of Louis Feldman's decision to change his view on something so fundamental. Obviously the myth is one and said, you know, now Louis Feldman agrees and so on.
So Feldman was persuaded by two things he was persuaded first of all by a couple of articles particularly 1999 by by Olson, who argues for wholesale interpolation and makes a good solid argument.
I don't agree with him. I think there's problems with his argument and and Alice Wheely, in particular, but also J pageant, Calvin pageant has have critiqued it.
It's not a slam dunk by any means, despite what Richard Carrier tries to tell us.
But he also makes a solid argument.
He's also persuaded by a keeper what he believed to be a keep this of evidence. He says that origin, the Christian early Christian writer origin writing in the mid third century, clearly read, he's probably the only pre Eusebian so pre fourth
century Christian writer, who we know definitely read the last books of antiquities of the Jews.
All the others who don't mention the the testimonium either clearly we're talking about other works by Josephus or hadn't actually read Josephus they don't make enough explicit reference to make it clear that they'd actually read Josephus.
But origin had origin actually refers to he refers three times to the Jesus James reference in book 20.
So why doesn't he mention the testimony if it was partially authentic. If there was a reference to Jesus there. Why doesn't origin mention it.
Now there are reasons why he wouldn't have if it was a negative reference for example as Dave Allen argues and others have argued, then that would be why if it was a neutral reference that simply says he was a wise teacher.
If he was so crucified and Christian still exists to this day, then there's still not a lot of reason why origin would use that. This is what I would argue.
None of those points were disputed. So why would he be bringing it up. And if he's not if Josephus isn't saying and by the way he was Messiah in that version at that stage, then there's nothing there for Josephus to use.
Someone says, but there were people who were arguing that Jesus didn't exist in the third century. So if we look at, for example, the dialogue with trifle, we have a reference there.
He argues to people saying there was no such person as Jesus. But what he's referring to as a passage where he says, well, you guys have invented your for yourselves on the side.
But he's not saying Jesus didn't exist. He's saying Jesus wasn't Messiah. He's not talking about Jesus and the Christ did not exist. He's talking about how the Christ has yet to arise. Your guy isn't him.
But that's a bad misreading, quite a remarkable, actually, misreading of against trifle. And Calvin pageant points it out and says, quite bluntly, Felman has misread this passage.
So I think that the problem with Felman switching sides late in his life is, to be honest, I don't think he was firing on all soldiers. He was in his 80s at that point.
And also, I think he's he's he's premised on a misreading of the text. But all I'd say is look, maybe Felman's right.
I keep saying this, maybe Olson's right. You know, maybe Hopper's right. Maybe the guys who won't give a wholesome interpretation of right.
My problem is when people say the testimony has been proven to be a forgery, it was it's been proven to have been written by Eusebius. That's not true.
It's been argued that but you can argue the other way. This is why I place no great weight on the testimony. The Jesus James reference there to go back to that.
I do put a lot of weight on that. First of all, I think it is one of the reasons why I think that the testimony is partially authentic.
Because it actually works that if there was a negative or neutral reference to Jesus in book 18, where the testimony now sits later on when he refers to James, when he says, brother of that Jesus who was called Messiah,
he's referring back to that earlier reference. So that hangs together quite well. Not saying it's definite, but it's a piece of evidence that there was something there in book 18.
I think that's important because I think he references like 18 different Jesuses in here and he's kind of making sure you know which one because there's so many of them.
That's the sixth most common name for Jewish men in the first century.
It's like, you know, if you know someone called Steve or Dave or, you know, or Mark or something, it's like that, you know, I was down the pub with Dave, which Dave, not that Dave, the other Dave, you know, it's a bit like that.
Yeah, it was John or Mike, that'd be like first or second. That's like the top three.
So let me ask you this then, because we touched on something fascinating. I'm really into this whole testimonium thing, but also not just testimony and Josephus on Jesus.
He mentions a brother named James, and this is the like heart of debate where his sources say he had a brother. Okay.
And I've read your article. And by the way, anyone who hasn't read it, you really need to even if you don't agree. Hey, he's open for discourse. There's a comment section down below.
You know, I asked that you be reasonable, please. But you know, please read it, check it out because he writes quite a bit on this and he engages back and forth with people.
I said, be respectful and your comment will remain. But if you guys go and read it, like I did, I read his, his James the brother of Jesus or James the brother of the Lord.
And there's people in the comment section that don't agree with Tim and you've left it on your site. I really do like that. So if you would give us something on the James the brother of the Lord thing and why you definitely think this is a great argument for a historical Jesus.
I suspect Josephus plays a role in this, but I'm sure mythosist will say, Well, that reference comes from the Bible. Therefore, they're using something here. I don't know. You tell me your thoughts.
So, so with the way the mythos deal with the Jesus James reference in Josephus is to say it's an interpolation.
Now, as I mentioned before, if you say that the whole passage about about the the execution of James triggering the the deposing of the high priest is an interpolation. It's a very strange sort of interpolation.
And this is why people like Carrier and others don't argue that the whole passage is an interpolation. They argue that there was a reference there to a guy called James who had a brother called Jesus getting executed.
And what's been added is just the brief phrase that he was called Messiah, who was called the Christ. So, so they argue that it originally read that that the high priest executes and people including the brother of that Jesus, whose name was James or brother of Jesus, his name was James,
because later in the passage, there's a reference to another Jesus. There's a reference to the guy who replaces a man as high priest. And he's he's called Jesus, Ben Demnas, Jesus, son of Demnas.
So they argue, Oh, no, no, no, the Jesus that was the brother of the guy who got executed was Jesus, Ben Demnas, who gets mentioned later in the passage.
The first problem with that is that Joseph, the probably the main one is that Josephus is actually very, very careful about the way in which he uses these identifiers, because he was often referring to people who had the same first name.
He talks about the entire sort of solicit dynasty early in his book. And those guys are all called Antiochus. And there's about like 10 of them called Antiochus. And so sometimes he's talking about Antiochus and his son is also called Antiochus and his cousin is also called Antiochus.
And so he has to give them cognomums, nicknames, to work out which Antiochus he's talking about. He's also quite often, as you mentioned, talking about guys called Jesus, there's about like 18 of them in his book, Antiquities and the Wars as well.
So he has to tell us which Jesus he's talking about. So it's like, you know, Dave, Dave, Bob's brother, no, no, Dave, you know, Dave, Dave with red hair. It's like that.
He's very careful, though, in the way in which he uses these identifiers. He uses a number of different identifiers. He uses patronymics. So the son of such and such like Jesus, son of Demnas.
He uses gentilex, so a guy Judas of Galilee, you know, from a place, and he sometimes identifies people by nicknames. So it's the guy who was called Carbi, or the guy who was called Messiah.
But the thing about it is that he's very careful that he when he introduces that person, he uses the nickname then.
And if he talks about them later in the same passage, he doesn't use the nickname because he's already identified which guy he's talking about.
So if he were to introduce a guy called Jesus in this passage, he would call him Jesus, son of Demnas, there. This is the pattern.
And then later on, he'd just say Jesus because he's already identified which Jesus is talking about. There's a couple of complex exceptions to this, but on the whole, that's the pattern.
What Carrier's argument requires him to do is to introduce him as Jesus initially and then identify him as Jesus son of Demnas later on. He never does that.
So Carrier says, well, maybe introduce him as Jesus son of Demnas at the beginning. That got replaced with who was called Messiah by the Interpolator.
And then he calls him again Jesus Demnas down the bottom. Again, he never did that. Once he calls someone by a cognomant, he then just calls them by their first name.
So it doesn't fit the pattern. That argument doesn't work. The other problem with that argument is if you're telling a story and you say this guy, the High Priest got deposed because he executed this bloke who was the brother of this other guy.
And then later on in that story, the brother of the guy who got executed becomes the High Priest. Wouldn't you note that? That's actually quite a cool story.
You know how ironic the guy that he executed that caused him to be deposed, his brother became the guy who replaced him. But he doesn't make that point.
It makes far more sense that what he's doing is he's calling Jesus the one who was called Messiah to differentiate him from the Jesus later in the passage who was Jesus son of Demnas.
He's making it clear they're two different guys and that fits everything we know about the way in which he uses these identifiers.
And this is why almost all scholars accept that that reference to Jesus is authentic and why Carrier's argument has failed.
No one cites it. No one has found it convincing except Richie Carrier and some of the guys online.
And the interesting thing about the James reference is that Josephus was about 25 when this happened.
He lived in the same city as James. James was older. James would have been in his 60s maybe, maybe a little bit older.
Josephus was about 25 or 26. Josephus was also a member of the priestly caste.
And so he was very closely connected to the High Priest who got deposed.
Josephus had just that year come back from an embassy to the Roman Senate where he was representing the High Priest in front of the Senate in Rome.
So he was a young politician and he's early just starting out in his career, clearly connected, closely connected to the priestly party.
And therefore would have been on the ground, having very careful attention to this tumultuous event, you know, the deposing of a High Priest.
So when he tells us that in his city, this tumultuous event happened when he was there in his early 20s and it was triggered by the execution of this guy, James, who was the brother of this guy, Jesus, that is direct testimony.
That's about as good as it gets in ancient history.
So I don't place a lot of emphasis on the TF at all, the testimonium at all, the Jesus James reference though is a smoking gun.
And the problem about that is that we've got a second reference to James in Paul.
So in Galatians 118, Paul says, Oh, no, no, no, I didn't meet any of those guys in Jerusalem.
You can't tell me I'm subordinate to those guys.
I didn't meet any of those guys. Don't tell me that.
Oh, except I didn't meet Peter and James, the brother of the Lord.
Right.
And then in the next part of the letter, he talks about how he got into an argument with James and how James was wrong and how Peter and James were wrong.
This is not, I met the brother of Jesus.
This is, yeah, I met the brother of Jesus and he was a dick.
And I disagreed with you.
Thank you at least because this is something that isn't in necessary.
You don't even have to be in a mythos or a historicist to see this dilemma here.
I've been trying to say this for a while now.
A lot of the buddies of mine that are deconverting, if you will, are like, well, they still have this like harmonization method that they use.
Everything still makes some connection.
I'm like, dude, James, this Keefus, James and Paul are not buddies.
Okay. I don't care what Axe says.
Axe comes along and says, oh, they had a little bit of an argument, but then everything was bullshit.
You're in Galatians. He's angry.
He's very, very angry.
And so the thing there is that again, we have direct testimony from someone who met James.
I mean, he met Peter as well, but he met Jesus as a brother.
Non-existent mythic celestial figures don't have brothers that you meet and have arguments with.
So some people try and say to me, oh, well, maybe he just made up that meeting garbage.
It undercuts his argument.
Then they say, well, we know that he has saw visions and stuff.
So how can we trust anything that he says?
Everyone in the ancient world believed in visions and many of them had them.
So if we check out any ancient source that talks about visions, then we can't do ancient history at all.
So that doesn't work either.
So what Carrier tries to argue is, well, when he says brother of the Lord, he's speaking figuratively.
A lot of people say to me, Paul often talks about people as brothers, brothers in Christ, or I met our brother Timothy or whatever.
And yeah, he does.
He often uses brother forms of the word Adolfos as a figurative shorthand for a believer in Christianity, because they were only just starting to be called Christians at that point.
He does.
But what he uses in Galatians 19, 119 is a very specific phrase, the brother of the Lord.
And he uses that only one other place where he's talking about the brothers of the Lord in both places.
He mentions these brother or brothers alongside other Christians.
So they can't just be a shorthand for Christian, because in both cases he's talking about Peter and the brother of the Lord, Peter and the brothers of the Lord and the other apostles.
So it has to be a subset of Christians.
So Carrier then goes and argues in a very convoluted and highly unconvincing way that there was a subset of Christians called the brothers of the Lord.
They were sub-underneath the apostles, but they were kind of slightly above other baptized Christians.
There's no evidence for that.
But there's no reference to this subgroup.
There's no other references to these brothers of the Lord in any sense that works for Carrier's argument.
But we do have references to Jesus having brothers.
We have references to one of them being James.
We have references to James being a leader of the Jesus sect in Jerusalem.
We have Josephus talking about James being executed and being the brother of Jesus.
So we've got evidence on one side that there was a subset of Christians called the brothers of the Lord, because they were his siblings.
On the other side, we've got pure supposition.
That's Carrier's argument.
Occam's razor favours the idea that brother of the Lord means brother of the Lord.
Put that together with Josephus and we've got two references to this guy, James.
Direct and in one case firsthand, contemporary references.
That's hard to beat.
And your mate, Bob Price, has said that this is the best evidence for the historical Jesus.
Carrier admits it as well and says that it's most likely he waits it in his weird Bayesian probability stuff.
He waits it towards historicity.
If you want me to summarize, why do I think it's most likely that Jesus exists?
It's really hard to argue those two pieces of evidence.
Really hard.
It makes more sense that the God exists.
I really love this.
I really enjoyed this show so far.
I'm learning a lot from you.
I love iron sharpening iron.
I use a Bible reference, you know?
Because I honestly don't think there's real animosity.
I think there's disagreement.
But I bet you you and Carrier could drink a beer.
No, no, no.
No?
He really does.
He hates you?
Okay, well, I don't know this stuff.
Bob looks as though he really enjoyed it.
I don't think he drinks.
He actually likes his beer.
He doesn't drink.
I was shocked that he didn't either.
Yeah, I know.
I was like, what the heck?
I was at an AA meeting before I was 21.
I wasn't even legally.
I was already killing it anyway.
So James the brother of Jesus, which is the reference.
They're picky about that.
James the brother of the Lord because, you know, I don't know why that would matter in a way because ultimately if Jesus is the Lord and he is technically this celestial.
Being, it doesn't matter.
But my point is you talked about that.
We talked about the Testimonium.
Is there anything else without getting lost in the weeds of the Testimonium stuff that you find should be reconsidered or examined from the mythicist to say?
There's a few other pieces of it.
There's nothing that's a slam dunk.
This is why I say it's quite valid that there was no Jesus.
But then again, in ancient historical analysis of ancient history, it's quite regular that there's nothing that's a slam dunk.
And so, and this is the other funny thing because I've been studying ancient medieval history for the whole of my life.
I'm used to this ambiguity.
I'm used to saying, well, there's this fragment of evidence here.
There's this reference here could be read in different ways, but on the whole it seems most likely that that therefore the general went here rather than there.
That's how ancient history works, right?
A lot of people come with this from quite often from a science background or they come to us from without a background in studying history or they remember Mrs. Jones in high school.
His idea of history was this happened because it's in the book, right?
So they find this ambiguity really weird and it all seems too vague to them.
Whereas I don't find it weird at all because this is how ancient history works.
So there's no slam dunk, right?
You can't prove that Jesus exists.
But there's elements, there's so many elements that point in that direction that it is Occam's razor says it's most likely.
Another one in Mark, and I haven't got the reference in front of me, so you'll have to look it up.
There's one bit where Jesus is talking about Jewish dietary law.
He's talking about the eating kosher and he's upholding it.
But then the gospel writer has to hurriedly say, of course, what he kind of meant was that it didn't matter what you ate and it's all okay because we know that later on that was a big dispute.
That was the dispute between James, Peter and Paul about do you have to be a Jew, do you have to eat kosher in order to be a Christian?
They kind of adjust or do a commentary on what Jesus is reported as saying.
That makes most sense if there was an old tradition of Jesus making this comment about the dietary law that no longer quite fitted with the way Christians saw that stuff.
So they had to wrap a bit of commentary around.
It doesn't make a lot of sense if Jesus didn't exist.
So there's just lots of little elements in that where they kind of shoe-warning historical Jesus bits into their much more developed conception of who or what he was.
I want to throw a couple towards you that actually heard recently from Ian Mills and he is a PhD candidate at Duke University who studied under Dr. Bart Ehrman as well as Dr. Mark Goodacre, Professor Goodacre and Professor Ehrman, which I've already interviewed Professor Goodacre, brilliant man.
Hopefully we can make some work with a good old Ehrman.
At some point, I really, really hope that can happen and that will be something we'll discuss.
He talks about an interesting topic and I like what you're saying here because I think, and I think Goodacre is correct on this, there's Pauline influence, which technically, let's just put it simply, Christian influence on a Messianic Jewish sect that is different from what it originally was.
And one of those things was, he said, Ian Mills said, if you look at the Gospel of Mark, I believe it is, which is the earliest Gospel we have, the majority of scholars would agree on this, is that he says, tear down this temple.
I will tear this temple down and I'll rebuild it.
But later in John, like the latest God, you know, it's almost like he went from Clark Kent to Superman.
In the latest one, he says, look, tear down this temple and I'll rebuild it in three days.
And then the author has the wink at you.
He was talking about his body, almost like there was an original guy, maybe, who was like wanting the temple to be brought down.
And I mentioned this before, and Dr. Goodacre made a quite an interesting statement in our show on Q, because we were talking about how he doesn't think Q's there.
He said there was a young man who drew a painting of the Twin Towers prior to their collapse, of them collapsing.
Prior, like just imagine if the two towers burned down.
And it happened.
And then this kid gets all this footage and he becomes famous, like almost like, are you a God?
Are you, you know, literally like he made a prediction, so to speak.
And it, damn, it happened.
And so I wonder if a Jewish apocalyptic messianic figure like a Jesus was running around.
And he said, you know what, this thing's got to come down or better come down because it was corrupt priests, those Jewish priests, or they're tearing my father's house apart, you know, or whatever it might be, who knows.
And it gets exaggerated, but it went from him saying tear it down, I'll tear it down and I'll rebuild it, almost like he's angry to, oh, well, he was talking about his body because it didn't get rebuilt, Ian said.
So since it didn't get rebuilt, and it's a failed prediction somewhat, they had to make sure it didn't fail.
And they made it about his body instead of talking about the temple.
This is, it makes me wonder, man.
It makes me think.
I think Nils is spot on, but he's not, he's not alone on that.
I mean, various, various people have made this point.
I think German makes his point as well.
We know that there was a tradition in the prophetic tradition of Judaism of preaching against the temple, which sounds weird.
But the idea was that the temple represented a corrupt form of Judaism and therefore it had to be cleansed.
The other thing is we know that the temple was previously been destroyed once because this was the second temple, the one that Jesus would have been preaching outside.
So the idea that Jesus would have been saying something against the temple does actually make some sense.
It's part of the apocalyptic tradition that as part of the cleansing of the earth that's going to come when the apocalypse happens.
And Jesus is depicted as saying it's going to happen any day now, guys, that the temple would be swept away and would be renewed.
So that saying kind of makes sense in that apocalyptic tradition.
And then there's, there's, we've got other references to prophets around at this time.
So there's another guy who is preaching about that the temple being destroyed, referenced in Josephus, not long before it was destroyed.
So this, this makes absolute, absolute sense.
The entire of Mark 13, it's sometimes referred to as the little apocalypse is Jesus being depicted as seeing outside the temples and predicting how the apocalypse is going to come.
And to make it absolutely clear that it's going to come any day now.
And the gospel writer has him, has him sort of talk about, you will see the abomination of desolation raised up where it should not be.
And then he puts the gospel writer then adds, let the reader pay attention to this, right, because that seems to be, he seems to be drawing attention to that because when the temple was destroyed, one of the things the Romans did was they raised their standards, which were religious symbols.
In the temple and sacrificed in front of them, which was an abomination and was predicted, supposedly predicted in Daniel because they've been at a similar desecration of the temple in depicted in Daniel.
So, so what seems to be going on is they're taking stuff that Jesus is reported and remembered to have said, and they're fitting it in with the stuff that's happened later on.
Probably the other good example of this is, is the infancy gospels.
So in both Matthew and Luke, you have stories of how Jesus got born.
And we all know them because they're on Christmas cards and we hear them every Christmas.
What we tend to hear is a kind of a harmonization of those two stories.
So we've got wise men turning up at the same time as shepherds, despite the fact that the wise men are from Matthew, the shepherds are from Luke.
We've got star in the sky at the same time as them going there for a census, despite the fact that the star is from Matthew, the census is from Luke.
So what Matthew and Luke are doing is telling two completely different contradictory, actually mutually exclusive stories.
Because I think most people would be listening to this might be aware that one is set in around about six AD with the census of Paulus, Supliceus, Quirinus.
And the other is set before four BC, because Herod the Great is a major figure in the story.
There's a 10 year gap between the two stories.
So what can we say? We can say two things. First of all, those stories are bullshit. They didn't happen, right?
That's quite clear. And forget what fundamentalist apologists trying to tell you, they're bullshit.
What they're doing, though, is they're making theological points.
I don't think the Gospel writers actually wanted or believed themselves that those things actually happened.
What they're trying to do is they're trying to say, look who this guy is.
He's a new Moses because look at all these parallels between his story of his and his infancy and the story of Moses.
He is the Messiah because look at this recognition of him by being born at a particular point in Roman history.
Look at the recognition of him by all these famous people.
But the other thing they're doing is they're trying to explain away why a guy who was from Nazareth was born in Bethlehem.
Because the Messiah was meant to be born in Bethlehem.
And that's a problem because he was Jesus of Nazareth.
And one thing the Gospels, one of the few things the Gospels all agree on is that he was from Nazareth.
So both those stories are working really, really hard and contradicting each other to get to tell a story whereby a guy from Nazareth is born in Bethlehem.
They tell two totally different stories. Why are they doing that?
It makes most sense that they're doing that because he was from Nazareth.
And that was a problem. So they're trying to get around that problem.
When I ask Mithasus, why is Nazareth in the story at all? I get weak answers.
Oh, well, who knows? Maybe it's just a reason.
Or it's a reference to him being a Nazarite.
They might not depict him as a Nazarite.
They don't depict him as a Nazarite.
So why is Nazareth in the story?
So that, again, Christopher Hitchens, who famously did not believe much about Jesus at all and didn't hold him in high regard, said the only thing that makes me think that he probably existed was the efforts and use of that example.
The efforts to which the Gospel writers go to, to sometimes to shoehorn Jesus into their conceptions of the Messiah.
That feels like there was a historical guy that didn't quite fit.
So if they made up of Jesus, or if Jesus came from conceptions about the Messiah and got historicized, as Mithasus say, he should fit the Messiah thing better, but he doesn't.
He keeps doing things and saying things that don't quite fit that they have to kind of explain, including getting crucified by the way.
Can I, can I repackage what you said for my audience that are like me?
And a lot of them have asked this question, which is fascinating the way you phrase this.
I've had this question posed to Dr. Price, my wonderful friend Dr. Price.
He wants to adopt me, by the way.
He's just like, I love you, man, you're such a good guy.
And the question goes something like this.
Why do we have so many contradictions, right?
Like, why are there problems?
Like, if someone created this fiction, and I understand the argument is there were various sects, and that's true.
Regardless of your position you take, there are various sects of Christianity, and we got to try and make everybody happy.
But there's so many contradictions that I think could have been figured out and solved and said, ah, here's one pretty nice picture.
Christians like to try and do that with what is broken, right?
And they're trying to take the broken pieces and create a perfect picture.
But if you take your methodology and what your suggestions, not just yours, it's like the majority of scholars,
the majority of scholars, that there was an original tradition that needs to be corrected to fit our understanding of the Messiah and to make things work.
That, to me, is a strong argument, in my opinion, on a historical Jesus aspect.
Because if the guy really, it's almost like Elvis, we can't have him from that backwater little redneck town down here.
He had to come from somewhere in California, so we know he was born on the hills.
You know what I mean? I'm just making a point.
There's something there, but it's not just that.
There's sacred writings from their scriptures that are kind of forcing them to have to make this decision.
So if he really was from a real locale, and there was a location called Nazareth, which is another argument that the Methodist will make, is that that place didn't even exist yet, which we're not even going there.
There are books on this that you can study and go look at the arguments yourself.
But, you know, I could see them going, well, David's from Bethlehem.
He's from the line of David.
He's got to be from, he can't come from that place, so we have to make sure he's from here.
That's interesting to me that you bring those things up.
Well, there was actually a prophecy or a passage in Micah that they read as saying from you, Bethlehem will come the Messiah, that's how they read that prophecy.
So they had to find a way to retrofit Jesus into this whole Bethlehem idea.
And he was from the wrong body town.
So, and yeah, you mentioned that Nazareth didn't exist thing, but no archaeologist on the planet says that Nazareth didn't exist.
I've got an article on that stupid idea.
That is a particularly stupid mythos argument that even people like Carrier totally reject.
But yeah, you're right.
And I think the other thing that really struck me and probably was the thing that turned me away from mythosism way, way back when I was like 18, 19 years old.
Was that if you line up the early Christian texts in their most likely order of composition, starting with Paul's letters and then Mark, then probably Matthew, then probably Luke, or possibly Luke and John, and then the second century Christian stuff.
When you line it up that way, what you find is that the Jesus in the earliest texts is very much an apocalyptic prophet.
And he becomes less so as time goes on.
Right. So in Paul, Paul famously talks about Jesus in very theological terms.
But when he does talk about Jesus as a person or anything Jesus said, he's very much talking about Jesus as an apocalyptic prophet and the coming, the Perusia, you know, the royal arrival of Jesus as a Messiah.
He's talking about that and how this is going to happen very, very soon.
And we have the Aramaic phrase, Marinette, the Coal Lord Jesus.
They were expecting this thing to happen soon.
That's very much in keeping with this idea of an apocalyptic sect.
Then in Mark, the first thing Jesus says in Mark is Mark 115.
Mark 115, the very first thing he says is the Kingdom of God is near at hand.
That's the Apocalypse is coming. The Apocalyptic Kingdom is nicked.
You can almost touch it, repent and believe in this good teaching.
Everything else in Mark is embroidering on that message.
That's an apocalyptic message.
That is the Apocalypse is coming any day now.
All the way through Mark, that's the insistent message of all the parables.
It's the message of all the miracles.
Everything is about that coming Apocalypse.
Matthew is the same.
Though Matthew has to modify it a little bit because the big apocalypse still hasn't happened.
By the time we get to Luke, you're really starting to start to tone that stuff down.
Maybe the Kingdom is within you, says Luke.
Then we get to John.
All that apocalyptic stuff is thrown out the window.
Jesus' message is, I am here.
The coming is me.
Through me, you will be redeemed.
That becomes then the dominant theme for the rest of Christianity.
Which means that modern Christianity, with some exceptions,
tends to read that earlier stuff through the filter of John.
When you light it up, what you see is an apocalyptic preacher who gets more and more exalted.
He's God's chosen one.
He's the Messiah.
He's the anointed one.
He's actually a pre-existent being who had miraculous birth.
He existed at the beginning of time and was possibly God himself.
He was the third person of the Trinity.
He's fucking God.
It goes like that.
If mythicism is correct, that shouldn't happen.
If he was this divine figure at the beginning,
he should be an exalted and divine figure right from the start.
We see this progression that clearly, I would argue, clearly indicates an apocalyptic preacher
who gets exalted to Messiah, who eventually gets more and more exalted,
particularly once Christianity drifts from its Jewish roots
and becomes a Greek or Roman mystery cult.
He then becomes a God.
That's where how it works and all that points to a dude.
It all points to a guy who was the first point of origin.
That's why I've got an article on my blog called Jesus the Apocalyptic Prophet
where I try to summarize why that is the dominant non-Christian critical scholar's conception
of who he most likely was.
I think one of the reasons a lot of people are inclined towards mythicism
is if you're a fundamentalist Christian in Western Kentucky,
I'm going to stop picking on those guys.
If you're a fundamentalist Christian in the US
and you're starting to get some doubts about this God thing,
you're starting to realise that creationism is clearly bullshit.
You're starting to realise that not everything in the Gospels can be true.
You go looking for an explanation as to how Christianity arose if Jesus wasn't God.
What do you find?
You're going to find a whole lot of mythos and stuff.
You're going to find a whole lot of Christian stuff.
You've heard all that crap before.
You're going to find a whole lot of videos, a whole lot of blogs,
a whole lot of stuff online about mythosism.
What you won't find is good scholarly analysis of Jesus in the context
of Second Temple Judaism and Jewish apocalyptic thought.
To get that, you won't find that on YouTube.
You have to work pretty hard.
To get that, you have to read books.
Some of them are quite dense books with lots and lots and lots of footnotes
and they assume a lot of knowledge including assuming that you read Greek.
One of the things I am trying to do is to make that kind of stuff more accessible
to people so that they don't go off down what I would argue is the rabbit hole
of mythosism and they stick with mainstream non-Christian critical scholarship
because Jesus is an apocalyptic prophet as I'm sure you've come to understand
is pretty much the mainstream non-Christian view.
My name is Tim O'Neill, blog author, History4Atheist.com.
I'm an atheist, I'm an atheist, I'm an atheist, skeptic and rationalist
who is a subscribing member of the Atheist Foundation of Australia
and a former state president of the Australian skeptics.
I've contributed to many atheism and skepticism for over the years
and have a posting record as a rationalist that goes back to at least 1992.
I have a bachelor's degree in honors and English and history
and a research master's degree from the University of Tasmania
with a specialization in Historic Analysis of Medieval Literature.
I'm going to stop right there, this is on your about page.
On your website, History4Atheist, I ask that everybody watching right now
go down in the description, please click his website, join it.
You have a joining where you send your email when you have new stuff.
Yes, you can subscribe.
And if you follow me on Twitter, then I've got my Twitter address there as well.
If you follow me on Twitter, whenever I update the blog, I post it on Twitter as well.
I will be launching a video channel sometime in the next few months
because I realize that a lot of people don't want to read 10,000-word articles
but they might see much of video and there will be a podcast version of that
so that people want to listen to those videos, they can listen to them via audio.
Really what I'm trying to do is I'm trying to get people to see that
just because an argument, a historical argument might appeal to you emotionally,
doesn't mean that you should have subscribed to it.
And there are many historical arguments that you can make against Christianity.
I don't have a problem with any of those.
If you want to argue that Christianity is evil and that the Catholic Church
has raped children and that various religions have destroyed indigenous cultures,
you won't hear me say a word against any of that because that's all true.
But if you argue that the best argument is that there was no Jesus
or that Christians burned down the Great Library of Alexandria
or that Christianity has always opposed science throughout its history,
those arguments are not true and they are not held by historians,
by the vast majority of historians, maybe a few contrary historians.
So that's what history for atheists is all about.
If you're going to use arguments from history, get it right
and don't go for fringe stuff that isn't accepted by mainstream historians
because you just make us look stupid and stuff.
I say, yeah, if you don't want Christians to hold up my stuff,
don't make bad arguments about history.
That's a simple solution.
So I find a lot of people who use these bad arguments do so
because it appeals to them emotionally.
We're meant to be rational.
So question, I suppose is what I was saying, question.
I definitely feel an emotional charge from this in a good way.
Of course, I want to know, you know, I want to learn
and I really do appreciate you coming on and teaching me this
and maybe I can help you catapult your new YouTube channel,
get some viewers.
I know for a fact some viewers will find this interesting
and consider this information.
Go test this information, ladies and gentlemen.
I want you to go and subscribe.
I just subscribed to his website.
I've been reading it for a while and never knew why I didn't subscribe.
So I literally just subscribed.
So make sure you subscribe, help him out any way possible.
If he needs anything, you guys go out of your way
because that's what I like to teach you.
I feel like the things that I want to give you guys,
you know, it should be something all humans want to do.
We want to go further.
I had a talk with my sister-in-law about this earlier
and she's like, yeah, but don't you use the Bible
to come to your moral values and all that kind of stuff.
And I'm like, look, you know, I'm a guy.
I see females in my head turns, okay?
But, you know, pre, you know, girls that are going to puberty
and things like this, you could marry them in those days.
You know, what we have going on today is a little bit different.
And so I'm glad it is because you've got a mature woman
who can make her mind up who has a possible future.
She's not destroying having kids and, you know,
we're living in a better day.
So I just make the point, be open to various ideas.
Don't stay dogmatic.
Don't stay within mythicism.
I'm not saying that mythicism couldn't be true.
Who knows?
Even Tim says it's possible.
He's not on the side of it.
He doesn't think that the evidence supports it.
And that's okay.
It's okay that he has a different view than you.
And if you're someone like me who it doesn't,
it really doesn't matter.
Like it really, really doesn't matter.
Meaning like I'm not, it doesn't hurt my feelings.
Anything that you've said today, Tim,
really is great information.
Because I can now look at both systems of thought
and test them.
I can really take what you said and see the development and say,
does that development make sense from a typical man
into a God?
Or was he some divine celestial angelic figure
or divine being who gets you memorized?
I do see an interesting problem with the,
with the hypostatic union.
Okay, there's something there we can talk about someday.
We can talk about more on mythicism at some point,
but I'm going to let you guys know right now,
I'm not going to spend every show with Tim.
There's too much other good stuff that he talks about
than mythicism.
And maybe I can ask you one question as a teaser for my,
for the next show that we do.
And that question has to do with,
talk about the destruction of the library of Alexandria.
What are the most pervasive myths about this event?
Is that going to get us lost in the weeds?
Yeah, probably.
I don't want to get deep into the conversation.
I don't want to get into the myths about it until next time.
Okay.
So I'm in the process of doing a video version of,
of that article that I wrote on my, in my great big series.
So what, what, what do a lot of people know about
or think they know about the great library?
One is they think that it was the,
the sole repository of ancient learning.
I mean,
destroyed that learning forever and set us back,
you know, a thousand years or 2000 years
and if hadn't been destroyed,
then we would know vastly more than we know.
So that's the first myth.
Second one is that it was a great center of science
and technology.
You know, they were doing lots of science there
and they were designing, you know,
flying machines and steam engines and,
and so it's destruction setback technology
by thousands of years.
And if it hadn't been destroyed by these evil Christians,
then,
then we'd all be living in colonies on,
on the moons of Jupiter or something.
The third one is that it was destroyed by Christians,
which isn't,
isn't true.
So I'll just leave that there.
But before we finish up,
I do want to make one point because you directed people to
my, about the author page on my blog.
And one of the things I address there is the fact that
I'm a,
I can often be a very rude and sarcastic bastard.
That's because I'm Australian
and that's kind of who we are.
But secondly, because that's kind of who I am.
Sometimes Americans don't quite get the Australian sense of humor.
So it was stuff that I write that is meant to sort of dry and
sort of slightly sarcastic,
comes across as really aggressive.
And that's just you guys.
I think that's your problem.
You need to sort that.
But a lot of people don't like the fact that I am quite sarcastic
towards some mythicists, particularly Richie Carrion
and a couple of the others.
And so they sort of say,
he's really rude to the mythicists or not,
on really rude to some mythicists,
the ones that have been rude to me.
Bob Price has never been rude to me.
And I don't agree with him,
but I've never said a bad word against Bob Price.
Earl Doherty has never been rude to me.
We've had some sharp disagreements,
but I don't say a bad word against Earl Doherty.
Richie Carrion is an asshole
and has treated me like an asshole.
And so I treat him like an asshole back
and so some of his little friends,
you know, Godless Engineer and others.
Now I don't, I don't dwell on that.
But, you know, I don't,
I don't agree with him.
I don't agree with him.
Again, I'm an Aussie and I have Irish descent
and I've rude here.
If someone comes at me,
I'll kick him in the fucking head.
So I just want to say that
because a lot of people read my stuff
and say, oh, he's a bit sarcastic.
Yeah, I am.
If you don't like that,
deal with it is all I can really say.
But I'm not sarcastic to people who aren't rude to me.
Well, you're not rude to me
and I'm friends with the guys
that you have had problems with.
But then again, like I'm such a get along with kind of guy.
I think I have Irish in me.
I just don't think I have as much in me as you.
So that's got to be the problem, you know?
I think it could be.
But look, as I said,
I don't get into psycho drama.
I do get into a bit of sarcasm,
but on the whole, you know,
really what I'm arguing with is the arguments.
Sometimes if some of those guys,
you know, I don't have a lot of time for Ron Ra, for example.
Now, Ron Ra is a, as far as I can tell,
he's a pretty good guy when it comes to the science
and creationism.
But when he gets onto history, he's crap
and he says stuff that's just totally wrong
and he won't admit it.
So I don't have a lot of time for that kind of stuff.
You know, if you get,
if you make a mistake, admit it and move on.
So yeah, I just want to make that point about time
because you're recommending my blog
and I want to make sure that people understand
every blog. It's a personal blog.
I'll use whatever tone I like.
And sometimes indulge in a little bit of right sarcasm.
So yeah.
Well, thank you so much, Tim.
I really appreciate the time.
I know that some of the people in the chat
are going to have a certain opinion about this
in a good way and some will have it in a negative
and it is what it is.
But you know what?
I love all of them.
I love them all for what they bring to the table.
I hope that in a year from now,
in a previous position with what they know then
and they get to go, whoa, there's so much more.
That's myth vision is a journey.
You know, it's, it's literally a journey.
It's not mythicist vision.
It's myth vision.
I love mythology because mythology is history.
Okay. There's a lot there.
And I think that needs to be understood as well.
So with that being said,
thank you for joining me, sir.
And don't, and please guys,
don't ever forget.
Okay. We are myth vision.
Thank you.
