Please consider becoming a patron of MythVision Podcasts, you'll get early access to every
video including this amazing one and you can ask me personal questions, private message
me anything you'd like.
Professor James Tavor, I must say there's a lot of controversy surrounding the idea
of the osuary of James and it's just really his bones and someone to say it's a forgery
and that there's scratch marks on it from later or something.
I don't really know the inside out but I can tell you this, if we found him, the brother
of Jesus and that would like be a big big deal.
So you talk about, they may have found the Nazareth osuary bone box.
Can you tell us what this is and your expertise in this and what you've discovered?
It's nothing to do with Nazareth, it's in Jerusalem but yeah, the so-called James osuary
as it's now being called, it belongs to an antiquities collector.
His name is Oded Galan, I know him well, spent time with him, talked to him and his story
is that he bought it from a shop, an antiquities shop in the Silwan area which is just outside
of the old city, kind of to the south and to the east and that he kept it for years
and he could read it, you can read it if you even know modern Hebrew but he just, he said
I didn't know Jesus had a brother, you know, he's Jewish and a lot of Jews, particularly
he's not a religious Jew, he's secular, I think in that sense, just an Israeli kind
of Jew, he said I didn't know Jesus had a brother so I didn't go like oh, and remember
it's Yaakov not James, so Jacob, Joseph, Jesus, you know, it's like it didn't ring
a bell with him, that's what he claims.
Now when it was revealed in the, right around the turn of the millennium, 2000, 2001, up
to 2003, there was a lot of controversy, Herschel, Schenck's and an epigrapher, LaMaire and Ben
Witherington, filmmaker, Sumpka, Jacobovitch, they all sort of got behind it.
I got invited by Schenck's, the editor of Bar Magazine, to view it along with a whole
crowd, MacArthur and Professor, well I'm not going to name everybody there, but there
were eight or ten really major Hebrew Bible scholars that were there, and we were all
just amazed, you know, it was, this was at a meeting in Toronto, the Royal Toronto Museum,
and so it became controversial because it's non-provenance, like where did this collector
really get it, and when did he really get it, and is it possible that it was an ostuary
that says Jameson of Jesus, I mean, Jameson of Joseph, and somebody added Brother of
Jesus to make it valuable, and then began to pitch this whole James thing.
Heisman thinks that, he thinks nobody would have thought of James, but after his work,
whoever forged it said, oh this is picking up speed, I'm going to add that.
Finally he was charged by the Israel Antiquities Authority, Edan was, I mean Oded, not Edan,
Oded Galan was charged with forging it, and there was a trial that lasted for many years,
had to do with some other things he was charged with, and he was acquitted of no proof of
forgery, it doesn't mean it's authentic, but he was acquitted on all the counts, and everything
to do with the James Oshuary.
It's not full of bones, but in every ostuary we've got one here that might have showed
when you were filming, that one's totally cleared out, but I've seen the James Oshuary
several times, and there's still skeletal material stuck to the sides, unless you just
take a spatula and you'd have to really dig down.
So it had bone skeletal material that could belong to the person who was buried there,
or if there was more than one person in it, because Oshuary sometimes had more than one,
but didn't have a skeleton or anything that you could check like that.
So anyway, the trial acquitted Oded.
I will say this, Oded told me, and he's, other than Musayaf, who died a few years ago, Oded
is probably the greatest collector of antiquities in Israel, meaning he has the greatest collection.
They're all legal, you know, he doesn't buy anything in the black market.
He said to me that he's never sold anything.
He said, I do this because I love it.
Like I know this, he's not an antiquities dealer.
He's an antiquities collector.
He loves his stuff.
And so he doesn't really fit the bill.
I think he's pretty, his family, you know, is well provided for.
It's not like you can say, well, it would be worth millions of dollars.
Maybe he forged it.
So lots of people think that last part was forged.
The trial did.
It was not conclusive on that.
After my, I'm no expert on all this, but I think Herschel Shanks followed it very closely
in Bar Magazine and your listeners and viewers can go back and, you know, look that up.
There's a lot on my blog.
Ben Witherington's book is still good.
He wrote it with Herschel.
I think the case favors authenticity.
Now whether that means it's Jesus brother or not, you have to do stats and you have to
make other kinds of leaps.
And then there's a question of where it came from.
There is new evidence that you can read on my blog.
If you just jamestaber.com and you type in James Herschel, you'll get all the posts on
Herschel and the latest one, not the latest on my site, but the latest on James gets from
last year is a peer reviewed scientific article arguing that soil tests done by the Israel
Antiquities Authority and the Israel Geologic Society have shown that it most likely came
from what we call the Taupio Jesus family tomb.
So that would actually put it in a context of other names, including Jesus, son of Joseph
and so forth, that some have argued could be the family tomb of Jesus's clan, let's
say whether it's Jesus or not the clan.
So that's changed things.
It hasn't got picked up on much or talked about.
I haven't even seen anybody refute it particularly, but that's out there.
People want to read it.
And it's the full scientific report.
I mean, it's huge because it has all these tests about what they do with the soils.
They check trace elements like how much iron, how much copper, how much aluminum, how much
this, and every tomb has its own environments like a fingerprint, even a tomb 30 feet away
of a different environment because of atmosphere, the way water seeps in, erosion, everything.
And so the person who headed the research, R.H.
from Rome, he's completely convinced.
He said, I can tell you one thing, whatever it is, the asher where he came from the Taupio
tomb.
It doesn't mean they didn't add brother to Jesus.
Maybe that was added.
So I think at this point, it's all we can say about that asher where he, I would lean
heavily toward it being authentic.
And I think they're just probably more, you know, most of us in the business, if it's
not provenance, it's just like, leave it alone.
That's kind of the feeling.
So people really don't want to talk about it anymore in the academy.
They're like, come on, don't bring that up again.
But there are new possibilities that can be done in the future.
I'm involved in some of them.
It mainly has to do with DNA profiles of all the asherwires that have any significant
bone remains and doing then what we would call a DNA prosopography, where we begin to
do relationships among people in all the tombs.
And now with the more sophisticated DNA tests, you can take scrapings from any asherwary
and get DNA material that's been shown now.
There is a tomb in Jerusalem the first time this was ever done.
Shaman Gibson and I found it in the year 2000.
It's called the Tomb of the Shroud, because we found the only first-century Barrow Shroud
dated by carbon 14 to the first century.
And we did DNA on all the scalar remains.
We're able to come up with, it's not a family tree in the sense of like, these two women
are sisters or maternally related, and they're also related to this woman who appears to
be older.
This person here is not related at all.
So it's just a little beginning that's been published as well in PLOS, PLOS, which is
a very respected scientific journal.
So I think in the future, we could take tomb after tomb.
They're tombs on the Mount of Olives that have very interesting names, like Shimon Barjona.
That would be interesting.
Simon Barjona?
Is it like another Simon Barjona, or is it Simon Barjona?
There's tombs that have the name Lazarus, Mary, Maryam.
There's one tomb on the Mount of Olives.
Has Mary and Martha in the same archery, two women.
So some of those are privately on, some are on, you know, they belong to the State of
Israel.
So I think there's hope that the DNA might begin to show at least who's family-related.
But right now, because of COVID, that whole project has stopped.
So now for two years, nothing's been done.
But it could pick up again.
And that wouldn't be the, it wouldn't be in the interest of like proving to James
Oshawa or anything of that sort.
It would be, now that we have the Oshawa's and the names, we've got six hundred and
something names, three thousand Oshawa's, all of them don't have names.
And we have what tombs, many of them come from, but others we don't have what tomb
they're from.
So you could begin to take one where we don't have what tomb, and not just with soil, but
with DNA tests.
Well, actually, this guy has the mitochondrial DNA of this woman over here on the Mount
of Olives named Maryam or whatever, you know, and then, you know, maybe that Oshawa came
to there, and then you could also do soil tests.
So I know it's a lot.
I probably am not going to live long enough to do much with it, but I am involved in the
project.
We're not talking a lot about it now because we've only done, we've actually only done
two tombs, the Shroud tomb and the Tapeot Jesus tomb, but we haven't completely done
the Tapeot tomb because that was done with DNA over 12, let's see, 10 or 12 years ago.
And now the DNA, it's unbelievable what you can do.
You probably heard of the advances.
Like you could literally, hey, this will give you my whole genome right there.
I've been holding this class.
It's just like unbelievable.
My whole genome of James Tabor is in just the oil of my finger touching this class.
Now ancient is more deteriorated, but they're methods of replicating and making many, many
copies until finally you're able to tell more.
So there's several places in Europe, particularly in Germany, that are using this new unbelievable
equipment.
It's going to go everywhere eventually, widespread.
So think of all the uses for health, criminology.
Thank you.
Yep.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
