Welcome back to MythVision podcast.
We are MythVision.
Karen De La Carrier is joining us again today.
How are you, Karen?
I'm doing great.
Really good.
I'm glad you're joining us again.
You too, you too.
And you were talking about,
we have this lawyer, expert,
who is defending Scientology,
trying to make it out to seem like a persecuted group
that just is doing no harm.
It's all of these people who just hate it,
and they don't like it.
And they're the ones who are painting a picture
that isn't true about Scientology.
You care to fill us in on who this person is,
what they've been doing,
and then we can get into some more depth.
Yeah, the guy's name is Massimo Introvine,
and he comes out of a town in Italy,
and he's on the payroll of the cult.
Now, there's a whole clique of them.
It's not just Massimo.
There's a whole gang of people who've learned
that they can make money under the tape.
They can get some nice, regular income
by writing papers
and being willing to be expert witnesses
and then they have some credentials.
Massimo is just a lawyer.
That's him.
He poses some kind of academic authority.
He's never worked in a university.
Now, freedom is Scientology pumping him up.
This is a Scientology publication, Freedom.
Do you see how they're using him as a mouthpiece, right?
And what he does is,
he takes away the word cult,
and he has redefined it as a new religious movement.
These cult apologists will apologize
and get money under the table
from Scientology, the Unification Church,
their bright, their hired guns to puff.
It's just puffing, puffing and huffing
of the goodness of this new age religion.
Hardwash.
They never cover the brutality.
They never cover the punishments.
The sexual molestations are all covered.
You see, in Scientology,
you cannot report a crime to law enforcement.
That is a no-note.
You can only report misconduct
to their own ethics officers or to OSA.
It is highly forbidden.
You can be expelled from the cult
for reporting a crime to law enforcement.
This is doctrine.
This is absolute.
It's hardwired into you from day one.
We handle our own morality.
We don't trust governments.
We don't trust the courts.
They're completely untrustworthy.
So Massimo has done over 70 essays
of phrasing the cult of Scientology
without ever, ever getting into the kidnappings.
The torture, the interrogations
that go on day after day, month after month.
None of this is ever covered.
That's why I call it puffing.
Derek, did you know that they're apologists?
Did you know that there's a whole stream of people
Gordon Melton comes to mind
that are on the payroll of the cult
to make the cult look good?
Did you, in all the academics in the...
You don't have anybody else on the level of cult.
This is a lucrative opportunity.
If you're willing to retrace the church
and take away the word cult
and call it a new religious movement.
Now, the reason the word religious is used
is the First Amendment.
If they're a religious movement, hey, hands off.
They're a religion.
Derek?
Yeah.
So with my academics, I think at best once in a while
one of them might be a pastor
or someone who's employed by the church.
But they're in no way the ones that I'm dealing with
being apologetic.
In fact, oftentimes the academics
who do work in ministry that I talk to
will point out flaws.
They'll point out pros and cons, right?
They'll be equally distributive about what...
Yeah, we've got some priests
that have really done some seriously horrific things
in the Catholic church or whatever it might be.
And they don't shy away from it.
Whereas this, I suspect,
not having read his 70 articles or his publications,
I imagine everything's there to pat them on the back
and to make them look good.
If they start talking about, well, you know,
about this free winds cruise, you know.
Well, no, I bet you she's wrong and the church is right.
About David Mascavage's abuse and things like that.
Well, you know, that's not really true.
They're lying.
And I wonder if this apologist, this lawyer,
actually goes out of his way to align and agree
with everything of the statements that the church is saying.
And therefore, you know, here we pay you to just kind of agree
and become yes men.
So I wouldn't be shocked if that's the case.
I would be curious to see what he writes in his articles.
But if he's actually going out there
and he's pointing out the bad while trying to say,
well, there's some good benefits
you can get out of Scientology.
Nobody said there isn't, but you can get just as good
of benefits in Jehovah's Witnesses
or the Mormon FDLS or the Mooneys
or any other cult for that matter.
You can find benefits, but the risk reward is not worth it
once you weigh out the balance.
So I suspect he's just doing what most Christian apologists
that I encounter do.
Well, the Bible talks about slavery.
It mentions actually being able to own other humans
in the Old Testament.
What are the Christian apologists that I bump into?
Try to say that wasn't really slavery.
Why?
Because it looks really bad.
If your God says in the law, you can own other human beings.
And in fact, you can beat them
if they don't do what you tell them to do
as long as you don't kill them.
So there are Christians who go out of the way
to try and say slavery wasn't really slavery in the Bible.
It was a dentured servitude.
So the only way they could survive
is if they ended up giving their time.
I'll work for you for seven years.
We called it slavery back then,
but it wasn't really slavery.
You can do this with many other examples biblically.
And most of the honest academics that I get come on
who are Christians say, no, it was slavery
and it was ugly and it was bad.
But we as a human race have learned better
and we are heading in a direction
where we don't practice those things.
That was what it was like in the Bronze Age
or that was what it was like in the Iron Age.
We're out of that
or that was what it was like in the first century
and we're trying to get out of it.
So at least they acknowledge the ugly and they don't hide it.
Is this guy hiding it?
It seems, you know, yeah.
Scientology has defended its hideous punishments
by calling it religious discipline.
That's the term Norman Stockey, high executive at the time.
He said, this is just religious discipline.
We are a tough, tough religion.
We're not turned the other cheek, religion.
No, we implied we are hard, high, high in morality and ethics
and our punitive disciplines measure this high morality.
Well, it's no different, Karen, than what was going on
with the Jehovah's Witnesses recently in Australia.
So they had a court case about some sexual child molestation
cases, something was going on and they have an internal code
where you have to go to elders and then the elders decide
if there's more than two or more witnesses, like it's like your
stepdad and the daughters at home imagine something happens.
No one's there to validate.
She goes to scream, hey, I got raped and they go, well, we don't
have two or more witnesses.
Now, why is that a problem?
The Bible says when there are two or more witnesses, then it's
true, but we can't take the case if there aren't two or more
witnesses.
So this code still practiced this idea of two or more witnesses
and if the elders don't have that or they judge that, no, we
just don't have enough evidence to really prove anything, then
the investigation just kind of stops and law enforcement doesn't
get informed and Australia like their Supreme Court or whatever
their large court system has been involved in this.
This sounds very similar what you're describing here on trying
to keep it all in their own tight-knit bubble and not letting
it get to law enforcement as the Jehovah's Witnesses and we call
them a cult.
So this new religious system get out of my face with that lingo
because we know this is invading the bite model.
Stephen Hassan that your wonderful husband is going to connect
me with.
He's written on this.
He is a cult expert and this is categorized as a cult.
So no matter how you want to change it, I think more people
need to keep going out there calling it what it is.
Don't let new people just try to reframe it because what's going
to end up happening is if they start allowing the language of
just religion be used, well, guess what?
Then we're now going to start calling religion and all forms
of religion cults.
If you want to start blurring those lines, then all religions
start to become cults if you want to do that and in some way
they are in some ways the variations on the bite model of
how they invade your privacy and invade your thinking and
control your life differ depending on each religion.
But you can call it a religion.
It's still a cult, but this is the things you've described on
here is like this is nutty.
You know, this is a little, I don't know, Massimo well spoken
Derek Massimo is much more sinister than just writing some
puff pieces with my apology.
He and his cult apolitus, there's a whole, they're a gang.
There's got to be 15, 20 guys around.
They put on religious conferences.
They intend to change the law.
They're invading the legal system.
They're going to judges and law enforcement and you know,
lawmakers, congressmen to actually change the law.
So they're way more, they're not just sitting on their butt
writing a few essays.
They're trying their influences in so they're very, very
sinister because there's so much gray area on this concept
of undue influence.
Massimo says there's no such thing as brainwashing.
Brainwashing is a fantasy word.
Well, when you are very overwhelmed and beaten up and
incarcerated, kidnapped by Scientology and just you, you
can be brainwashed.
I mean, what is it?
It's called indoctrination and without a doubt.
Absolutely people aren't heavily indoctrinated to think some
of the craziest things you can imagine and they believe them.
They're not lying.
They really believe them and I honestly think that's what's
going on with David Miss Gavage's wife.
I think that she is so indoctrinated.
If she's not a vegetable by now, she's a robot.
Boy, does she have data that could just burst open everything.
But as you say, well, she was dropped off at the Apollo at
11 years old and she had no schooling, no outside.
Her whole life has just been, it's like these poor FLDS kids
who grew up in that.
They, they grow up to get married and produce babies and
that's their entire life.
Anyway, so I wanted to point out that Massimo was way more
sinister and deadly than just writing puff pieces.
He organizes conferences and they invite legitimate religions.
They call it a religious conference, but to give themselves
legitimacy, mainstream religion, people like to be invited
to an international conference of other religion.
You know, you see, so lines of being merged, true religions
and this phony baloney using the tag of religion only to get
freedom of religion of the First Amendment.
What, and there's no laws.
Derek, there's no laws against high abuse in these countries.
That is the hard part.
This is where they're calling it religious from our doctrines
and judges traditionally don't like to interfere with freedom
of religion.
So as soon as they say it's in our doctrines, the RPF was
written by Hubbard, the rehabilitation project forced
this miserable, miserable eight hours a day, hard manual labor,
five hours a day, indoctrination, coughing up your cracks.
This is a Hubbard doctrine.
So they get away with it.
Do you see how the law, the laws need to be tweaked, taken
into consideration, heavy torture, child trafficking, all
kinds of trafficking within these cults.
Absolutely.
In fact, you sent me a clip too about a actress who obviously
was indoctrinated.
And of course, in this particular interview, she finds Jesus.
This is one of the things that helped her kind of get out
of the Scientology cult.
But I wanted to play that clip, if we can, of what they're selling
and what I think attracts people into this.
They get, you know, they always say, oh, no, everything's good.
Then you get stuck, then they get you.
Can we play that?
Yes, please.
So what Scientology, again, like so many other deceptions in
the world today is really leading people to believe is that they
are God, that they, you know, they can become God.
They can become Godlike.
And that's, that's the goal of Scientology.
So if I may comment on this, while I think she may be coming
from a theological kind of angle in a way, because she's probably
a Christian now who thinks that that's blasphemy and wrong to,
you know, try to equate yourself with God.
I think the selling point is offering people this, you're
going to have your own planet.
If you go to Mormonism, men will become gods and they will have
their own planet.
Now, I think she's theologically trying to say, I think that's
false.
Like, I don't think that's really true.
But I think the selling point is this selfish desire to become
immortal, to become something that will last forever.
And it's innate in all of us because we don't want to die.
In fact, the whole point is to survive death.
We don't want to die.
We want to survive as long as we can.
The name of your YouTube channel, Surviving Scientology.
They're offering you this package that is just anyone would
want it and they're feeding you a science fiction saying, you're
going to live forever.
You're going to be a God and you're going to have this great
glorious state.
And all of this is the same thing that gets packaged in all
of these other cults.
There are forms of Christianity.
If we can go back just so I can jab a little to be fair because
I think she's coming from the Christian side saying all these
other false things.
Christianity offers immortality to be with God forever.
And in Eastern Orthodox Christianity, you can actually
become deified where you become like on par with God in terms
of becoming deified.
So it's something I think that sells really well.
And I think Scientology is just hijacking a very old system
attaching science fiction, you know, Elron Hubbard's
imagination to older religious models and then selling them
to people to get them hooked because if it works for them
and it's been working for thousands of years, if you're
a smart cult person, you're going to copy and mimic models
that work and this is what I think that they're doing.
And she bought it.
That's why she's discussing in this whole show that she did.
And we'll put that link in the description for people to be
able to go watch if they're interested.
But I think that's why she bought it initially.
That's why I bought it is I wanted to live forever in heaven
and I want to have a mansion and I wanted to have these great
things.
So people kind of get stuck in these cults because they seem
benevolent, but really they have a malevolence about them.
They have actually deep down sinister motives of using
them, sucking them dry of everything they have to offer.
Beautifully spoken.
Derek, I want to I want to end off this little segment with
a little anecdote story, you know, Derek in my last day in
Scientology.
I was just I just the last 40 years of my life.
I've been a good little Scientologist.
Oh, we get following it all practicing it all.
And I was quite a powerhouse even when I was in very high
level.
And now I was leaving it, departing at the word loyalty.
This loyalty were flashing in my mind and I was this was the
last day the next day I was going to announce to the world
on Marty's blog, which in those days were read by 20,000
people a day.
I was going to announce my very public departure.
So do you know what I did, Derek?
What did you do?
Derek, I was raised in the Anglican Church, which is very
similar to it's Protestant, but right blood brothers
Catholicism, right?
And in Los Angeles, there's a multimillion dollar church in
the heart of downtown called the Church of our Lord.
I'll give you the name.
This is a multimillion dollar church with glass windows and
the sun comes in screaming and different.
The architecture is phenomenal.
People go there just as tourists to look at it.
It's very wealthy.
It shows the Catholic world.
And you know, I was in turmoil.
I was leaving this cult after 40 years.
So guess what I did?
I went back to my Protestant Catholic roots and the music
was playing Ave Maria in this constant music.
And I went down the different look.
There's people like Kerry Grant or 1940s movie star there.
Their ashes are all the famous people who were Catholics are
all entombed in the lower levels of this cathedral.
It's a showpiece of the Catholic Church in Los Angeles.
And I went down and I was sort of meditating.
I kneeled on one of this.
I was just thinking and thinking tomorrow I'm leaving
Scientology and there were some humble Latinos and I was
comparing the inside of this big Catholic Cathedral with
Scientology.
Nobody was trying to get my catch.
Nobody was hitting on me for more money.
Nobody was trying to sell or pitch anything to me.
I walked through the aisles.
I looked at all these famous people buried their ashes at
any rate there and I wandered through and then the music
was playing in an organ music.
And you know, I felt a kind of inner peace.
This was kind of strange because I didn't it wasn't like I
was going to go back to Christianity or anything.
But I was just doing comparisons with how I could feel a
sense of peace in my roots and the next day I was gone from
Scientology with a big announcement.
I've often thought about how I felt a sense of tranquility
in a Catholic Cathedral on my last day in Scientology.
Yeah, no, I think like I said when you compare when you
compare Scientology is just horrible.
I mean the things you've described are just horrible.
Now the version of it that maybe Tom Cruise has is the whole
wishful thinking they're trying to sell everybody who walks
in the door, but not everybody's getting that.
So, you know, if everybody had Tom Cruise's version of
Scientology, we wouldn't be having this episode.
You wouldn't be interested in exposing it, but the fact
that you have the freedom to walk in and walk out and do
as you please with these larger churches.
They don't micromanage the things you do.
This is where Stephen Hassan, you know, the cult expert
would point to you like there are certain degrees in
which maybe there are checks and ticks that the church
that you're describing here might click.
But in comparison, every single check is almost on the page
for Scientology, FLDS, extreme versions of, you know,
Jehovah's Witnesses, for example, and other versions
of cults that might be out there, the Mooneys, whoever
that micromanage your movements, your thoughts,
your everything.
And I get that sense of tranquility and stuff from
other things that I explore in the world and compare the
freedoms that I have now from the cult that I feel
I was part of that micromanage me that showed up to my
house on a Sunday saying you broke Sabbath and why are
you doing this?
And they wanted to have my wife stop working and they
wanted to fund us so that we didn't have her working
anymore so that our bills were paid so that I could be
full-time in this church and she didn't have to be anything
but a housewife watching children, staying at home,
cooking, cleaning and become the obedient woman she was
created to be.
And so there are degrees in which it is intense, but
I'm glad you got into, got to the day before you left, got
to kind of mirror it and go, I can come and leave here.
Nobody's going to tell me, command me, demand me, any
of that.
I don't feel the pressure.
I'm not going to have to feel that and I could come and go
as I please at a church like this.
And I think that's important.
So I want people to realize like you don't have to go full
skeptic like me.
You don't have to like leave it all and forsake any belief
of God's or belief systems.
Go and study and look up Byte model for example and see if
the church, the groups that you're a part of, if they're
a cult, if they are checking off these ticks, you know, one
more thing Karen, when I was in rehab, I went into a detox
center as a drug addict.
I thought I just let it get the best of me.
I did not know I was a drug addict by the way.
I went into this detox and they had these little pamphlets
and I started reading and it's like, have you ever stolen
to get your drug?
Yeah, check.
Have you ever done it?
Oh yeah, check, you know, did you lie about this to your
wife?
Check, you know, and you start doing that and after a while
you're like, okay, what's the point?
You get to the back and it's like, if you have checked more
than 50% or whatever the amount was, you're probably a drug
addict, which means you have a serious issue.
This is not just a choice.
There's more to this and it scared me, but I needed to kind
of start to chew on it and accept it.
And it was over months that I realized something.
I need to get real help.
There's something really wrong with me and I did.
I got professional medical help.
I started getting, you know, my life together and then I relapsed
down the road, but that's a whole another story.
My point is check the bite model, see if the group you're
part of checks off some of these high control, you know,
marks, if you will, on the bite BYTE model.
Go Google it, look it up and say, yeah, are they controlling
that?
Do they make me fit?
Do I need to financially do this, this, that?
And if there's these things being checked off, you might want
to think about the group you're involved in.
It's probably a cult.
It walks like a duck, talks like a duck.
So Karen, yes.
But yes, thank you for sharing that with me.
Well, Derek, I kneeled on the pews and I wept.
It was goodbye to everything I'd ever known.
No one would ever talk to me and no Scientology friend of mine.
Everyone I had lived with and breathed with for the last 40
years, disconnection, Scientology, you know.
And but because of crowds of people leaving, there were a
few hundred people who had already crossed who welcomed me
with open arms.
Why I told you that was how interesting that I would go back
to my Catholic Protestant roots on the eve of departure of
40 years of my life.
I went back to a former belief structure with looking for
comfort.
Right.
Anyway, I told the story and Derek, your response was
terrific as usual.
Thank you.
We will be in touch.
There's lots of breaking news occurring.
Thank you for watching this right to the end.
If you've stayed with us to the end.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Yeah.
You again.
I really appreciate it, Karen.
I hope everybody takes the time to go subscribe to your
YouTube channel.
Hit the bell so you're notified every time she drops a new
one, you know, rest in peace to Ron Muscavige here.
It's really sad how that all ended and anyway, I hope you
go check out those videos with her and him and I've also done
recordings in the past with Karen.
So please check us out in the description.
You want to help us out?
We could use it to keep doing what we're doing and exposing
harmful cults like Scientology.
When someone tries to tell you, it's just a new religious
movement.
You could just say, yeah, a new cultish religious movement.
Got it.
You know, and check out the bite model.
Go see if your particular views fit into that category.
Karen, thank you so much for this interview and your time.
I look forward to next time.
Love you, Derek.
Thank you.
You as well.
