What does it all mean?
It's about undead.
We are MythVision.
Welcome to MythVision podcast.
Your host, Derek Lambert here.
Dr. and Luther G. Williams is still absent.
He's in his basement somewhere writing up his book, you know, Delving Deep in Esoterics.
And we're going to have a surprise today with some of that stuff too.
You know, guys, be on the lookout for the book.
When it comes out, I'll let you know and be sure to help contribute.
We'll keep bringing you guys the best guest.
And we have one of them here with us today, Robert W.
Sullivan, the fourth.
How are you doing, Robert?
Hey, Derek, thanks for having me back on the MythVision podcast.
I think it was about, I think the first time, the first and only time I've been on,
I think it's been about eight months ago, maybe, maybe six, seven months ago.
So I know we had a great conversation back then.
I look, we talked about returning.
And so here I am.
I look forward to continuing the conversation.
As far as Luther goes, yes, in a basement working on a book.
I know, I know firsthand what that is all about.
Yeah.
And you've wrote four books.
So our audience absolutely needs to get ahold of this stuff because a lot of even
modern day people who are artists who are making these movies are incorporating ancient
knowledge, ancient symbolism, these things into their movies.
And so a lot of your stuff surrounded that.
You've got a book, The Royal Arch of Enoch, the impact of Masonic ritual,
philosophy and symbolism.
You have another book, Cinema Symbolism and the artwork for the book covers are
beautiful. It's a guide to esoteric imagery in popular movies.
Like I could see a movie about that.
Cinema Symbolism to more esoteric imagery in popular movies and the witches of
Highgate, a pact with the devil.
Love it.
I love it.
Yeah.
The, the last book was is a work of fiction.
The others are not.
And yeah, The Royal Arch was my first book that was published originally back seven years ago.
I mean, I can't believe seven years have gone by.
It's been subsequently republished as a second edition.
Same thing with Cinema Symbolism and Cinema Symbolism too is its sequel.
Hacked with the devil is a work of fiction.
So if you're in a Gothic horror, erotic mystery, murder mystery, check that one out.
That's definitely will be up your alley.
The, the, what I'm doing right now is we were talking off, off air is I've kind of
backed off the podcasting for a little while.
I think the last show I did, I just did one recently with Chris and Cherie Geo.
But pretty much going back to March, I really kind of backed off a little bit
because I was a little worried that, you know, this could be starting to come
a little hackneyed, repetitive.
I mean, you know, we were talking about how many times can you decode the
Matrix movie or the Wizard of Oz?
And what I, what I, what I was doing is I've been working on my fifth book,
which is Cinema Symbolism three, that should be out January to March of 2020.
So I'm really looking forward to that.
And when that comes out, you know, as I was telling you, I'll start this
process all over again, I'll have a brand new slate of movies that we can, you
know, all analyze and talk about.
And so I can give you a little preview of it, you know, before the shows out.
And I've also been going back and just doing some re-editing to my earlier books.
This is something I've been planning one for quite some time, but I just
never really had the time for it.
And right now I do have the time.
It's, you know, I haven't afforded the ability to go back and just do some
re-editing.
It's funny the way it works.
You write something a few years later, you look at it, it's like, God,
did I really write that?
We can a little bit.
I'm not re-writing the books or anything.
Good grief, but just making some edits.
There's some minor, you know, grammatical mistakes in the book, nothing
that you can't read, nothing that like, there's no pages missing or paragraphs
inserted upside down or anything like that.
Just a minor things I wanted to fix.
But no, I've been extremely busy.
And again, thank you, Derek, for the invitation to returning to MythVision.
And I know, you know, we bandied some emails about with, you know, some
topics you wanted to talk about.
So I'll let you open up and we can do potluck.
You want to just throw some talking points or questions at me and we'll just
take it from there.
Absolutely.
Absolutely.
Um, I remember, I wanted to go back a minute because Kristen Whitaker Hood,
she introduced me to you by name, however, and she's from the Mythesis
Milwaukee show.
And, um, they, they had introduced you to me and I said, huh.
And when I saw a picture of you, I remembered seeing a video clip where I
did a lot of research on astrophiology a while back and I was looking for
people who explain it, you know, because a lot of times visual audio helps
me rather than delving into large volumes, trying to comprehend this.
And I saw you explaining it in a very, like very, uh, well said, easily
articulated way that, uh, made sense to me.
And I was like, whoa, that guy, I'd love to talk with him.
And you were on my show.
I was like, wow, this is cool.
We had started a show, you know, it developed and evolved into what it is today.
So I wanted to talk about some astrophiology and see where this thing goes.
If you don't mind.
Well, let's start off with that.
Astrophiology is a doctrine.
Uh, it is, I guess it is intertwined with astrology.
Um, and what it essentially entails is I think, I think in my opinion, it's
one of the real keys to decoding a lot of mysteries.
Um, once you begin to see where this, once you begin to understand it, you
will see so much in our culture and our religions is coming from this.
Um, what it essentially entails astrophiology is the anthropomorphizing
of the stars, the moon, the heavenly bodies, the planets, the sun into
personalities, uh, into characters, uh, that embody the traits and, um,
archetypal qualities associated with different constellations, the zodiac,
the moon, the sun.
And this is all mythology that basically goes back to the dawning of mankind.
So it's no wonder this stuff is still with us.
Um, and when you really begin to understand this and, and it's
controversial because there's really two way it's really controversial when
you apply it to the Bible, because there's two ways of really looking at it.
There's three ways and one of the ways, the third way is I reject the third
way is it's a coincidence.
I don't buy into that.
The, the, the other two ways is you could say that the stories of the Bible
are just astrophiology.
They're the old solar pagan lunar myths with new names on them.
Osiris, you know, Horus is Jesus, Mithras is Jesus, the sun God, you know,
the resurrected savior born again every morning.
What, what, you know, doing battle with the works of darkness, you know,
what happens to the devil, the dark Lord, when the light comes, what runs away,
it disappears, right?
Because the sun's up.
Uh, you know, the, the whole idea that Christ is the sun, you know,
what happens with the sun on his annual journey?
Well, you know, it's helped by 12 houses of the zodiacs that it passes through.
These are the 12 apostles.
You see this in Judaism with Moses, you know, being the sun, the 12 tribes of
Israel, same exact thing.
So you can look at it and say that, um, that the characters of Bible are just,
are just complete, you know, mythology.
They don't exist.
And they're just the reinventions of this old pagan solar stellar war.
Or you can say, and this is what a lot of them made the Masonic thought on this
stuff is, is you can say that the characters of the Bible, the Moses's,
the Jesus's were real, or there was some person out there that they were based
upon, but when it came time to crafting the story of this person, but for example,
with Jesus, this is the best example I can give when it came time to create,
creating his religion at the council of Nicaea and 320 AD, 300 years later,
the Christians, pagans, Gnostics, Neoplatonists who created Christianity,
just relied on the old solar legends to formulate his story around.
So you could say, okay, well, there's a real Jesus, but it's been,
this is what mainly P. Hall and Albert Pike essentially say is there was a real
Jesus, but at the council of Nicaea, his story was corrupted with sun worship.
They just use the old solar pagan allegories, tales to formulate a religion around.
And that's why you see these earmarks of the Egyptian mythology, the Persian
religion, the old Roman, you know, Sol Invictus, Mithra, Mithra, Mithra's
called permeating, pervading Christianity.
So you can look at it from a real hardcore conspiratorial standpoint and say,
okay, it's all made up.
It's just, you know, total mythology.
It's the old, you know, pagan solar astral religion rebranded, renamed, or you
can kind of take more of a moderate approach to it, which is probably the
root I try to take because in the end, and I just tried to do this objectively
as a lawyer, I always say to myself, you know, I wasn't there at the time.
So I mean, I can't say to you, you know, there was no Jesus Christ because I
wasn't in the Holy land 2000 years ago.
Exactly.
You know, I mean, I just can't tell, I can't, I could, I could, as a lawyer,
I could argue both ways.
I can tell you what evidence, why it didn't exist.
I can argue it the other way.
I can say why it did exist.
I think what's pretty irrefutable though is the stories in the Bible.
A lot of them are based upon these old solar astrological mythological tales.
I think that's pretty irrefutable.
The hardcore question becomes, was there a real person that these legends were
based upon, or is it just all fantasy?
Is it just all Star Wars?
You know, that's the million dollar question.
That's, see, that question is, I find very valuable and very important personally
in my own research.
At the same time, you know, you have the two camps, historicism, mythicism, and
ultimately, mythosists say it was a mythology that was you hemorrhized into
a historical person, and vice versa, the historicist says, is a guy who became
mythologized into God.
And so either way, I get it, because at the end of the day, they both end up the
same thing at the end.
And what that is, is you have, you have a mythology that has been shrouded
around the possible human or the possible, you know, you hemorrhized myth.
And nonetheless, there's still some esoteric truths to these things.
There's some valuable lessons.
There may be some time relevant things that were good for the time that these
things might have been written or, you know, significant to their contemporaries.
But you're going to, and I like how you did that before we end up going
into a few examples, because examples are the key to this.
It really is, because I've listened to skeptics.
Okay, I'm a skeptic myself about a lot of things.
And I think it's a good thing to be skeptic about things.
And a lot of people are so skeptical.
They think it's hogwash.
What we're saying here that this is going on, and I actually do espouse
that an astrological angle is evident.
I mean, it's, it's there.
You can't get around it.
I really think it is.
So I say that to, to, to bring up this.
Um, people who deny Hamlet's mill that there's some type of, you know,
astrological, you know, understanding the stars, keeping track of the times.
And, and all that plays into this as sacred knowledge for them.
Um, what would you say to them?
I mean, what, what kind of, uh, what would you say to a skeptic who says,
come on, you're over-stretching at 12 tribes and the 12 disciples or 12
disciples, uh, aren't the 12 zodiac signs and stuff.
What, what made it evident to you?
You see what I'm saying?
Yeah, you, you can start pinning it down.
I mean, it's easy to say, okay, well the 12, um, you know, tribes, you know,
or the 12 apostles of the 12 houses of the zodiac, you can do a breakdown
on some of these guys.
Um, I do it in the world of art to actually give you the breakdown.
I don't have a copy of the book in front of me.
But like, I mean, for example, um, you know, what is it?
The one Peter is, you know, the first apostle, you know, he's Aries the
Ram because that's the first, you know, house of the zodiac, you know,
it's a sun sign.
This is why, you know, the three apostles who were ruled by the son, uh,
John, Peter, and I forget the other one, um, they're always the ones who are
the most zealous in carrying Christ's messages forward.
Um, because, you know, John is ruled by Leo.
He's the, he, the, the apostle John corresponds to Leo.
That's Christ's favorite apostle because Leo is ruled by the son.
Hence he's ruled by Jesus.
Uh, the name Peter, um, comes from the great Petra, meaning rock.
This is why Peter is the rock that the church is established upon.
I mean, again, it's lore, it's mythology.
Um, you know, the whole idea with, with, with the Christian and, um,
Jude, Jewish religion is has to do with the splitonic year with the
procession of the equinoxes with Judaism being the old age, Arian religion,
the sun and Aries, the Ram, Christianity being the son in the house of Pisces,
the fish.
So you have, you know, with, with, with Moses, you always have the, um, fire,
you know, areas of fire science.
You have the fire symbolism around Aries.
Moses grows the ram's horns.
You always find pre-reformation images of, uh, of Moses with the two horns
protruding out of his head.
That's representing Aries, the ram.
The whole Exodus from Egypt, from the desert to the Holy land,
this has to do with the vernal equinoxes, why it's celebrated at the Passover.
The whole word Passover is a reference to the sun passing over the equator in
the Northern hemisphere, heralding the return of a light.
This is the end of the winter months.
Um, you know, this is why it's Easter, uh, in, in, in Christianity.
It's the celebration of the return of the sun to the Northern hemisphere,
having been dead for three months, uh, being trapped in the tomb of winter.
Um, where have you heard that before?
You know, this is when the sun emerges from the three month tomb of winter.
So, you know, you can find examples is again, with, with the whole thing,
with the procession of the equinoxes, with, uh, Jesus being the embodiment of,
it'd be like a Piscian solar age avatar.
I mean, there's nothing but fish and water symbolism around Jesus.
I mean, walking on water or washing the people's feet, uh, Pisces rules the feet.
Um, I mean, all of his disciples are fishers of men.
This is a reference to Pisces.
You go back to Judaism, which is the fire age, Aryan symbolism.
You know, uh, where does Moses get the name of, you know, talks to
God in the burning bush, um, Abraham sacrifices a ram.
Uh, again, this is all the hall earmarks of the old Aryan age religion.
Uh, you go to Pisces, which is Christianity.
You get the fish water symbolism.
So there is this, you know, ebb and flow of symbolism coming from the stars,
the moon, the sun, and it's, it's the stories of the Bible are based upon, uh,
the interaction of these, the, these heavenly celestial bodies, um,
interacting with one another.
I mean, so for example, here's another one for you, um, in the Bible,
in the New Testament, um, Jesus goes into the desert for 40 days and nights,
where he's tempted by the devil.
I mean, everybody knows this one.
Um, the, the 40 days, that's a reference to the sign of cancer, the crab.
And the reason why cancer was usually assigned 40 days instead of 30 was,
um, it's because cancer has no bright stars in its, uh, in the constellation.
Most of the other constellations that make up the zodiac have very
distinguishable stars in them.
Cancer does not.
And it was always hard because of that.
It was always hard to tell when cancer begins and ends.
Uh, so it was always assigned 40 days.
So whenever you hear the word 40 days, this is a reference to the son in the
house of cancer.
Well, what happens in the Northern hemisphere under the house of cancer?
Well, it's scorching hot.
It's the summer solstice.
I mean, it's heat.
It's a heat wave.
This is why Jesus, the son is perishing in the desert, right?
Who shows up, but Capricorn, the goat, the devil.
Why?
Because Capricorn's opposite house is Capricorn.
This is why the goat is allowed to badger the son in the 40 days of heat.
This is a complete astrological metaphor.
Later, this is turned on its head when, when, um, Jesus, but because Jesus is the
son, the side, the sign of cancer, June 24th, 20th, 21st is when the summer
solstice occurs in the Northern hemisphere.
This is when the sun's at its mightiest.
So we have the story again.
This time the sun is triumphant when Jesus rides into Jerusalem on the two
donkeys, the two donkeys are the two stars in the house of cancer.
Um, I forget their names, but their name, the greater and lesser donkey.
This is the sun in the house of cancer and during triumphantly, the sun at
its apex in the Northern hemisphere.
Again, this is all allegory.
This is all not real.
It's happening, but in the heavens above us, not down on earth.
Wouldn't that make you an absolute heretic?
I mean, yeah, but, but, but the cool thing, and when I like what you're
saying here, tongue in cheek, I think it's very important that we, we say
that and we specify this, does it mean that you're an atheist running around?
You're not against this book.
You're not out here trying to antagonize fundamentalists, but you do
think it's absurd to assume this is a literal historical text in the sense
that it has been interpreted for so long.
Absolutely.
I mean, you can still craft the argument that there wasn't, he was
historical Jesus, right?
And you can, you can still say, yeah, I mean, this person was a divine
origin.
The count, what, what the manly P halls in the Albert Pike say is when it
came time to crafting this religion around this guy at the council of
my sea, essentially in three 21, they just use the old stellar war, the
astro theology to craft this guy's religion around.
Um, so for example, I mean, look at Christmas.
I mean, the celebration of Christmas is the winter solstice.
I mean, I think that's pretty irrefutable.
The celebration of Passover in Easter has to do with the vernal equinox.
The whole measurement of when Easter is determined has to do with the
full moon after the vernal equinox, same thing with Passover.
It's, it's guided by the celestial bodies.
It's not just the coin flip done by the Pope in Rome or something saying,
okay, Easter's going to be on this day.
The whole date of when Easter is celebrated for starters, it's the day of
the sun, right?
I mean, the day is the day of, well, you know, because Jesus is the sun.
So it's the day of the sun, of course.
And it's the sun after the full moon of the vernal equinox.
Why the vernal equinox?
Because this is when the sun god is resurrected from the vault of winter.
Um, this predates Christianity.
I mean, you get into the Egyptian lore with Osiris, with Mithris.
The feast day of Mithris was December 25th.
So you can craft the argument that the Christians who were, were, were, um,
forming, formulating this religion were just relying on the old pagan mythology.
And when there was a, there was a strategic reason for doing this, you can
say, well, why the hell would they do such a thing?
It's because the Roman empire was essentially pagan.
Um, so, so what's a better way to introduce your religion?
You're not basically, what you're doing is you're not saying, okay,
you could still worship the virgin Isis.
You could still worship Horus.
You could still worship Mithris.
You're just calling them Jesus now.
You, it's just now it's the Mary, you know, Mary Magdalene or the virgin mother.
It's the same thing.
We're just kind of switching the name around on you a little bit.
It doesn't diminish the fact that there could be historical, you know,
there could be a historical person who was born in zero, you know, AD,
who was a divine figure who, you know, you know, was sent in to bring some
inner no system and kind or something like that would redeem sin.
I wasn't there.
I can't tell you that didn't happen.
But what I can tell you is that, that the stories crafted around this guy are
definitely Astro theological relating to the old stellar solar celestial lore.
I mean, and this goes back to the dawn of man.
I mean, you know, you know, I mean, we live in a high tech world now, Derek,
where, you know, with the computer, the internet, we all have nine to five jobs,
you know, but, you know, you go back to 3000 years.
I mean, you had these bodies, the stars, the moon, the sun.
I mean, you know, what the hell are these things?
I mean, it's from these stars and the interaction, you know, with the sun.
This is where you get all these stories from.
I mean, fairy tales, you know, the little princess, the dawn, you know, Aurora,
you know, Belle, you know, you look at Beauty and the Beast running
around in the golden robes of the sun, who is always trying to unify
with some solar masculine figure.
You know, the unification of the moon being the feminine, the bond girl,
as it were, unifying with James Bond, the solar hero performing, you know,
the coincidentia oppositorum, the union of opposites to go on and defeat,
you know, the evil, you know, satanic villain.
I mean, this is as old as it gets, and it's just been rebranded and repackaged
for the last two to three, you know, 1000 years, but it all goes back.
All these stories, these fairy tales, these legends, the mythology,
it all goes back to the oldest thing of all, which is the sun, the moon,
the zodiac, the stars, the planets and how they interact with each other.
And they're archetypical qualities, you know, associated with them.
That's where so much of this, when you understand that, you will,
when a person understands that, you will understand, you know, the whole idea
of crucifixion, of the death and resurrection of the sun, of light
triumphing over evil, of darkness.
Again, it's the oldest lore and it's been present since the dawn of humankind.
Powerful, well said, and that I can track exactly where you're coming from.
I mean, usually I always tend to go toward the biblical account,
because that's what I was raised and our, I guess, I'd say our culture's
most adept into that, they understand the Bible more.
And I love how you mentioned these things.
I've heard it said that gospel is written in the heavens.
It's written in the stars.
The heavens declare the glory of God.
Well, this probably ties into these same things you're talking about.
To me, it absolutely makes sense.
And I know how skeptics would disagree.
But, and I'm not saying anything bad about atheists either.
When I said that, I just clarified, because someone might hear that,
who is a fundamentalist and go, what?
Yeah, you're saying some tough stuff for somebody who is a literalist like me
back in the day.
Now, I want to talk about maybe some stories specifically,
because you really touched on a lot of interesting things.
Come up with a story.
One of your favorite in the Old Testament.
And well, we'll go to the Old Testament in a minute.
Like you said, the Gospels, let's look at them real quick.
Right, OK.
What are what are what are the four symbols for the four Gospels?
I mean, there's your answer to that answers your question.
It's the bull, it's the lion, it's the man, and it's the eagle.
OK, why are these are the four fixed signs of the Zodiac?
This is all stellar worship.
Anybody who knows anything, these are the four fixed immutable signs of the Zodiac.
The bull is Taurus, the man is Aquarius, the lion is Leo.
And if you know anything about astrology, you know the eagle is a keel of the eagle,
which is Scorpio.
These are the four fixed signs of the Zodiac.
These are the four signs that the sun waxes and wanes upon every year.
This is why they are the foundations of the solar church of Christianity.
There's your answer.
I mean, now you're not going to hear that in the church,
but you will see whenever you see those symbols for the four Gospels,
that is complete astrological symbolism that is irrefutable.
The the Old Testament.
Well, let's see here.
I mean, you can I mean, you get into the story, you know, if you don't mind me
mentioning real quick, because I have a buddy of mine.
I can't name him.
I will eventually because his he says, well, when his mom passes away,
then he'll come out.
He says, if his mom found out what he believed right now, she would in her life
would be over. I said, no way.
So yeah, he says he has this idea that technically the Old Testament
could just be called the sun book.
It's the story of the sun, so to speak.
And Adam, he has this idea that Adam is the sun.
Now, I know there's multiple different ways of looking at and interpreting it.
And if you listen to one person, you know, they'll say this is interpretation.
And that's the interpretation.
But nonetheless, astrology seems to be the core here.
Do you have an explanation from the very beginning in the beginning,
God, in the first story without an Eve idea?
Do you have anything astrology wise with that?
Or you get into the whole idea of the of the serpent in the tree.
I mean, this has to do with Kabbalah.
This comes out of the Book of Enoch, which is another one of these sacred texts
where the tree in the garden is Hebrew Kabbalah, which is an emanation of the
Godhead. You can look at the man man and woman as perhaps,
you know, you can look at them as the constellation of Gemini, perhaps.
You could look at, you know, or as just allegorical, the first man,
the first woman, the sun and the moon, perhaps.
Enoch, I mean, again, another solar allegory is taken away for 365 years.
I mean, you don't need me to explain that one.
I mean, you get you get into the whole story of Moses with the Israelites.
I mean, this is, again, a solar allegory being kept in bondage and darkness
in Egypt. This is the sun moving from darkness of winter to the light of spring.
You know, and again, a lot of the rituals surrounding the Passover,
the unleavened bread. If you research it, this is a symbol of the vernal equinox.
Again, you know, again, you know, the exoteric explanations of bread of haste.
You know, as any Masonic scholar will tell you, when it comes to symbolism,
there are multi levels to this stuff. There's always the profane explanation,
you know, which is this is the Albert, what Albert Pike would have said.
This is the explanation just told to everybody that there's always these hidden,
underlying meanings that, you know, are kept for the select few.
I mean, and what's funny about this is, is you get into the, if you start reading
a lot of the, you know, I'll go to the New Testament again,
if you go to the teachings and the writings of a lot of the church fathers,
they'll tell you this. I mean, there's guys like origin who will say, you know,
Christianity has two doctrines, one exoteric, one exoteric.
The exoteric is for, you know, the people who show up in church.
The esoteric is reserved for the hidden masters.
You get into the text, the Gnostic text from the Nag Hammadi Library,
where you get into the whole idea of the Gnostic Christ.
And then this is something that's really fascinating.
And then this is, you know, where the Jesus figure
isn't this son of God redeeming sin, but he's like the illuminator character,
or the illuminating figure who sent basically to awaken mankind from their
stasis to achieve some sort of higher capitalistic Godhead.
This is again heresy, but this is when, you know, this is the Jesus
of the, you know, of the Gnostic text.
And what this ties into is a lot of Gnostic beliefs of this whole idea
of there being these two different gods out there.
And this really is an astrology or astral theology,
but this ties in Gnostic cosmology, where you have this one supreme Godhead.
The Gnostics call this thing the Monad.
It's unknowable, it's unfathomable, and it has ammunations.
I'm just getting into this real quick.
And one of the ammunations, one of the lesser ammunations is known as Sophia.
She's cast out, and as she's cast out, she births this creature known as the Demiurge.
And he creates our universe.
He is the God of our reality, and he's a lesser God.
He has no knowledge of the Pluroma, of the Monad, of this divine heavenly state.
And he creates our universe.
And many, many Christian and church fathers believe that the God of the Old
Testament was the Demiurge.
The Demiurge is essentially the asshole deity who wants to keep mankind in
this stasis, wants to put him down and, you know, you know, employs this host
of angel demons and those archons to basically keep humankind into slavery.
And the mosques believe that Jesus was this being, this messenger set from the
Monad to defeat the God of the Old Testament, the Demiurge.
And so, you know, you know, there were, there were a lot of Christian heretics
who said, look, if you read, if you, I mean, you're just looking at this
objectively and you read the Old Testament and then you sit down and read
the New Testament, they said that these two books are talking about two different
deities, I mean, two totally different gods.
The God of the Old Testament wants to kill people, wants to murder people,
wants to punish Egyptians, forces people to sacrifice, you know, other people
to him, you know, wants to wipe out the Egyptians, hates everybody.
But then you got the God of the New Testament embodied by Jesus, who loves
everybody, don't hurt anybody, you'll be friendly to everybody.
And then a lot of these Christian mosques said, these two books are talking
about two different deities here.
You know, one's the Demiurge and the other is the spiritual Godhead.
So this is why a lot of mosques follow Jesus and, and, and, and, you know,
essentially night Jesus as this Christian illuminator character.
A lot of them saw the whole idea of the gospel tales as redempting sin,
the dying woman cross, the death and resurrection.
A lot of mosques and a lot of Christian mystics would have said, well,
this is the outer mysteries.
You know, this is, this is the profane mysteries.
There are these secret mysteries.
And this is what the Nagamani library talks about.
I mean, there's a great story in the text where I forget which one text is it.
I think it's the gospel of Judas of all things, where the apostles, I can't
remember if it's all 12 of them, but it's a lot of them.
They're sitting around the meal, they're having a meal on their breaking bread.
And they're praying and Jesus comes in and starts laughing at them.
And they look at him like, you know, what, what the hell are you doing?
And Jesus starts walking around and he's laughing at them.
And it becomes very clear to the apostles that he's not laughing with them.
He's laughing at them.
And the story comes out that Jesus is essentially admonishing them because
they're worshiping them on a false deity.
They're worshiping the God of the Old Testament, which is no good.
And basically, basically says you're doing the bidding of the demiurge by doing
what your church fathers are telling you to do and look no further.
And when you do that, you're done.
You are done.
It's interesting you say that because even, all right, my research that I've
been doing and a lot of our guests who've come on, they point out that there's
this kind of blend of orthodoxy in the New Testament, but it's not just that.
Paul comes out and some weird stuff's going on.
We know there there seems to be a fusion of what I like to call some
form of Gnosticism in a way and orthodoxy.
And they're trying to make it fit in one book.
And what it seems to me, if you really look at it, where everyone talks
about how the New Testament is being anti-Semitic because it's constantly
ragging the Jews and they're being at fault for this killing of Jesus.
And they're at fault.
They're the children of the devil.
They're this even Peter's called that.
Okay.
So all that being said, it makes me kind of wonder if it's not necessarily an
attack on the people themselves, even though it's been interpreted that way.
And people have attacked Jews throughout history.
I'm wondering if it's an attack on the people who are the apple of that God's
eyes.
And it's kind of like a hit in the face somewhat of Yahweh.
And here's this new deity that nobody's seen the face of except for the
sun.
And it's funny because I thought we did have scenes where God was seen in the
Old Testament or something.
And yet here in the New Testament, this is a God that has never been seen
except for by Jesus.
Right.
In the Gnostic cosmology, the one that everybody knows is the Valentinius one.
And what Valentinius essentially said was that this unknown Godhead,
they call it the monad, it's unknowable, it's unfathomable.
You can't understand it.
It's beyond name.
It's beyond comprehension.
It's the spiritual Godhead that, that humankind is essentially striving for.
But humankind is a murid in darkness, a murid in matter because this
world is a false creation.
This is a whole matrix movie.
I mean, this is, this is exactly the matrix movie.
What Valentinius said was what the cosmology is, the monad, this Godhead
produces emanations.
And the one emanation is known as Sophia.
And what these Eternals try to do is they study, they want to study the
know of monad as any Gnostic will tell you this thing is beyond comprehension.
And this desire to know the monad produces error.
This is one of the, this is one of the splits between Christians and Gnostics
because the Christians say you can have this relationship with God.
The Gnostics say you can't.
This thing is unknowable.
It, this, this, this desire to know the know of monad produces error and
it results in the casting out of Sophia, the birthing of the Demiurge and
the crafting of our reality.
What Valentinius preached was the way to escape this was to pursue knowledge.
Was that basically to become all knowing was a way to, that the Demiurge
wanted to keep you in a state of stasis and ignore it and to be completely
stupid, to be thumbed down.
And the way to escape this was to become enlightened, to receive light.
And that the more you became wise, the greater chance you had of
freeing yourself from the Demiurge and the Archons.
So the idea is that essentially the death moment is not important.
It's the coming to Zen moment that's important.
And, you know, this, this is, this is the whole conflict between the God
of the Old Testament, the God of the New Testament.
And the whole idea is Sophia is this fallen archon, is this fallen Aeon.
That's what they're called the emanations of Aeons in, in Gnosticism.
This is myriad in Kabbalah.
This is the Sephiroth with the tree of life.
These are emanations of the divine Godhead.
But, but Jesus comes into the world to redeem Sophia and to awaken mankind's
divine spark, to put them on this pathway that leads you back to the
Pluroma, this is where the Monad dwells and get you away from the Demiurge.
So the idea is that this is the esoteric teachings of Christianity.
A lot of the fundamentalists are like this, because they want to dovetail
the Old Testament with the New Testament, say the God is one and the same.
If you read the books, a lot of the early Christianity say, you know,
these are two different gods here.
You know, the God of the Old Testament is evil and cruel.
The God of the New Testament wants everyone to love one another.
So which one is it essentially?
And a lot of them said, well, if you apply this to the Gnostic cosmology,
the God of the Old Testament is clearly the Demiurge and the God of the New
Testament is the Monad.
But again, you know, Orthodox Christianity undermines that, you know,
where it's, you know, the God of Abraham is still the God of Jesus.
And like I said, I don't unfortunately have a definitive answer for you.
I could just present the paradigms, but it's worthy of discussion.
And it's worthy to be aware of this stuff.
Because I mean, I think that the Jesus character or the Jesus figure in the
Valentinius cosmology, the illuminator figure, I think he's really probably
more fascinating.
I mean, the whole, the whole idea, this, this ties into the gospel tales of the
rebellion that, you know, people forget this Jesus was a rebel, rebel.
I mean, this guy was put to death because he was a hellraiser.
I mean, you know, I mean, this guy wasn't just some passive go in the night, fly by,
you know, I mean, this guy was put to the cross because I mean,
he wanted to overturn.
He was basically saying your worship is wrong.
You know, you know, you're doing this wrong.
And, you know, that's, you know, I mean, Jesus by definition was a rebel.
And that's where you get into where you watch a movie like, I mean, I'm not
trying to be flip here, but you watch a movie with something like Fight Club or,
or The Matrix.
I mean, what is the heart and soul of those movies?
It's rebellion.
It's rebellion against the hyalic world.
You know, that is the creation of the, the demiurge.
You know, the, the, the, the, the more you destroy consumerism, the more you,
you know, you know, hating materialism, the more you harm the demiurge and the
more you become enlightened, that is ultimately the teaching of the Gnostic Christ.
Man, I love the Fight Club.
I love, you know, I always see those memes.
I think they're funny online, where you send them to another people and I wish
Christianity was like Fight Club, you know, their philosophy.
What does, what does Tyler Durden tell the narrator and Nourney says, God hates you.
That's the demiurge he's talking about.
God wants to destroy your life.
This is the Gnostic text, that the demiurge employs this coterie of angels
and demons known as Archons, whose sole purpose is to keep you asleep.
Who's to keep you in material slavery, obsessed with consumerism.
I mean, this is, you know, the movie, The Matrix.
They live, you know, you know,
well, what movie, you know, the Archons of, of The Matrix are the agents.
You know, fall back to sleep, stay plugged in, go to your job.
You know, this is the whole paradigm that Tyler Durden is rebelling against
in the Fight Club because God hates you.
And the best way to receive enlightenment is to destroy this
Heilic world, this false reality, essentially.
I always thought I never had any connection with that.
I always thought, well, it's just one of those shutter island type of movies
where, you know, Leonardo DiCaprio is on a boat.
He's approaching the island.
For those of you who haven't seen Shutter Island and, you know,
he goes on there with this detective.
He's trying to find out where, why, what's going on.
There's some mystery that's happening on this island and long story short.
You know, he's got these crazies in this asylum, handing him notes,
telling him little things, little secrets along the way.
He thinks that his partner and he thinks that these other guys are all evil.
Come to find out he was actually himself, one of these patients
that they were trying to do tests on and they had to do lobotomy at the end.
But all these things along the show that made you think everybody else.
It was really him.
So it's funny how this in Fight Club, I thought it was just some schizophrenic
and that was it, but it appears that there's more layers to this thing.
I mean, you're you're unlocking a lot of interesting things here.
Now, I want to ask you one thing before we get into that, because I know
I would like to talk about bouncing back and forth between, you know,
the ancient myths and the modern myths that we call movies.
Um, pertaining to
Gnosticism, and I know that you have a background in Freemasonry.
With Gnosticism, does Freemasonry have more of a connection
to the Gnostic side of things than it does with the orthodox side?
Yeah, I think it does.
It's a great question you ask because this is how this is one of the things
that really got me roped into all this is because this whole notion
of the death and resurrection, solar God, man, I can't think of anything else
to call this character.
This appears in Freemasonry and it is decidedly Christian,
but then you have to peel off the layers of the onion and then you find the Gnostic
allegory and then, of course, you're back to where we all started from with the
sun worship. Then, you know, I guess you go first to the Osirian mythology
in Egypt, but what's that?
Well, that's the sun worship.
That's the solar allegory.
So, I mean, for example, in the Masonic ritual, I mean, I should point out that
when it comes to Gnosticism and Christianity, there is an overlap.
I mean, Pete, you'll hear someone say, well, like the movie The Matrix,
well, the Neo character is a Christ figure, you know, or the Truman show,
Truman is a Christ figure.
Yeah, you can say that, but he's also a Gnostic figure, you know,
because there is an overlap between Christianity and Gnosticism.
I mean, again, in orthodox Christianity, it can be deemed as a heresy.
But nevertheless, there is a overlap between Gnosticism and Christianity.
Where it goes into, what it gets into with
Masonry is in the third degree ritual, where you have the whole idea of, again,
the dead and resurrected solar god figure, where the candidate
portrays Hiram Abif, who is murdered by three fellow crafts.
His body is buried west of the temple, again, death setting sun west of the temple,
right? And his grave is concealed with the spring of Acacia.
That's a flower sacred to the sun god Apollo.
So again, solar allegory when he goes missing, the
the King Solomon notices, he notices he's gone, of course, and dispatches
what else but 12 fellow crafts to go find the body.
I mean, well, who are the 12 fellow crafts?
I mean, to answer the question is, but to answer it, the 12 houses of the Zodiac
going looking for their solar ruler.
And they eventually find his grave, they find the spring of Acacia, and they know
it, of course, because it's a solar allegory, it's a solar emblem.
And they try resurrecting his body and they try it at first with the grip
of an entered apprentice, that doesn't work.
Then they try with a group of a fellow craft, that's the second degree, that doesn't work.
So they try with a third degree grip and that works.
And the third degree grip is what's known as, what else?
The strong grip of Alliance Paul.
That's a complete reference to the House of Leo, the lion, which is, again,
the soul house of the sun.
So all this comes, again, back to the solar symbolism.
And you can definitely, without question, Eric, say, oh, well, this,
this looks decidedly Christian.
Correct, it does.
Yeah, but peel it back.
What what's underneath of that?
Well, it's the Osirian mythology, the death and resurrection of Osiris
by Isis and the possession of the secret name.
Because when the Mason is raised, he has a secret name whispered in his ear.
And then what's behind all that?
Well, it's the death and resurrection of the sun.
Again, probably the oldest story ever told.
So again, you know, this, this is what, you know,
this is what really kind of started all this for me was, you know,
seeing going through the Masonic ritual, you know, as you know, I am a 32nd degree
is going through the ritual and then trying to understand, you know,
what is what is this trying to tell me?
What is this symbolizing?
And it's this old mythology of the dead and resurrected soul of God, man.
I can't think of, you know, anything else to call it.
I mean, I mean, you know, and you wanted you wanted somebody, you know,
just real quick, because I know, you know, you were really pressing me
for the astral theology, for this symbolism with some of the stuff surrounding this stuff.
I mean, here we go.
I mean, you know, Christ, you know, Christ, Christ is the truth, right?
I mean, Christ dies at 33 years of age.
Why? There's 33 vertebrae in the spine.
What sits on top of the spine?
Golgotha, the place of the skull.
This is where Christ is crucified.
This is because this is where all truth dies in the human mind.
The two thieves on the side of Christ are the two fears that plague humankind,
fear of the future, regret of the past, which Christ is trying to tell you to move off of.
So again, the death of Christ at the place of the skull.
This is symbolic representing the murder of truth.
The 33 years of Christ is again another allegory.
The thieves are an allegory.
You know, again, we're dealing with just allegory after allegory when it comes to the story.
And like I said, you know, I don't want to be too polarizing here because you can say,
well, this guy was real, but the pagans who created the religion, essentially,
we're just using this old symbology symbolism to create this religion around.
But again, if you're interested in this, read the Royal Archvina book, because I go all out
on all the symbolism surrounding the life of Christ, Moses, the solar symbolism,
the esoteric attributes as it were, I mean, of which there are, I mean,
I'm just skimming the surface, you know, I mean, there are just so many of them.
You know, what fascinates me and this is just on that question.
I love questions and you bring up some fascinating points
that you make it so easy to just accept for me because it's so difficult.
I hear some really controversial scholars who come in and they just they whip you up
and your brain gets sidetracked and and pertaining to this, though,
what you've done with the question of the historicity, was there a guy?
Was there not a guy?
What fascinates me about this Jesus character in history is like,
if you're to compare him and I've heard them try to compare him to Caesar's,
I don't know of any cult that developed from the Caesar on saying he was a phantom
or that he was not a literal flesh and blood human,
that he was some type of ghostly type of figure.
I don't know of any and that doesn't mean probably too much to some people.
But to me, it just seems really ironic that a cult or a group out of this following
would come up and say, hey, this guy was not literally flesh and blood.
Now, I don't know if that has nothing to do with whether he existed literally or not,
but I just didn't see that out of any other cult.
I didn't see that there was like a Gnostic type of they didn't really exist
when it came to these historical people.
Now, I could get it if it was a God that was in the heavens
or something like we're talking about, a solar deity or whatever.
But it's a solar. It's a solar deity.
That's essentially what as Jesus exists in the New Testament,
that's essentially what he is as a solar deity or solar avatar.
That's really the best way to describe it.
I mean, this is coming out of Roman cults such as Solivictus,
the cult of Mithras, the Osirian mysteries, the cult of Lucius.
I mean, these all incorporated these whole themes of death and resurrection.
I mean, that's a straight solar allegory.
I mean, look at, you know, again, I mean, if you want to see this in modern day,
turn to the Matrix movie and what happens to Neo and he's killed and resurrected.
You know, it's the oldest, it's the oldest, you know, mythology of them all.
And it's it's where, you know, I mean, I mean, Jesus in his preaching,
speak children of light.
What's he telling you? We worship those of the sun.
I mean, you know, I mean, what did he just say?
I mean, in the book of Revelation, Jesus says, I am the bright and morning star.
What's the bright and morning star?
The sun. I mean, I'm quoting him directly.
He just called himself the sun.
I mean, hello, you know, you don't need Robert W.
Sullivan the fourth to spin that one.
Yeah. And he also has the being the light of the world.
You know, that's another interesting is that the elimination of the sun.
I mean, yeah. So your book real quick, I want to touch on the Royal Arch of Enoch.
Just real quick, if you don't mind, is this an audio too?
Do you have it in audio format?
No, I've never put any of my books in audio because I can put the book of fiction in.
I've just never really pursued it.
The reason I could not put the other books in audio is because there's too many
illustrations, it would just, you know, the books are rich in illustrations,
which I think are key to understanding a lot of this material.
And because of that, I've just never put them in audio.
The the books are in the print edition and they are in the Kindle format or the
book, I should say, you know, they're like whatever it is, the Kindle, the Barnes
and Nuk, I think is what they call there yet is it's Nuk Kindle.
That's the one that everybody knows, but some places just call them ebook.
So you can get the ebook version of them.
If you want the print edition, that's no problem as well.
I mean, they're available to purchase on all the major online research sites.
I do not sell the books personally.
That's too time consuming and too cost effective.
If you want them, just get them off of Amazon or Barnes and Noble.
I personally do not sell any of the books or anything like that.
I mean, I have printer distributors who handle all that for me.
Again, I just I just don't have the time for it.
As I mentioned at the top of the show, I am writing a fifth book,
which is Cinema Symbolism 3.
I actually have other three other books that I'm kind of working on as well.
But Cinema Symbolism 3 is taking front and center stage right now.
I am also making, like I said, some edits to the other books.
I hope to have all this done within the next six to seven months
is what I'm kind of shooting for.
And like I said, the one thing that I'll be excited about
is to be able to start this all over with a new slate of movies.
And I'll just I'll just tell you real quick.
I mean, I don't know if you want to talk about it.
Yeah, you know, we can go off.
You know, just just so people know the one thing with Cinema Symbolism 3
that it's just really consumed a lot of my time.
I mean, I've been working on this shit since
since May, I think it's been so maybe even April is Twin Peaks by Lynch.
I mean, it's great stuff.
I offered a little bit of a criticism of it in the book.
When I first watched the TV show, I thought it was a little too screwy.
And I did write a kind of a harsh, crazy criticism of it.
I have kind of come around to it a little bit more.
I mean, you know, I do like it, but I think there's some issues
I don't don't like with it, but it's Lynch and he's very heavy lifting.
And the problem with the Twin Peaks material is there's so much of it.
I mean, there's there's like 30 episodes from the get go.
Then there's the movie.
And then there was the show that aired on Showtime a couple of years ago.
I mean, and it's it's not the sort of thing where you can like watch five
episodes at a time.
I mean, your mind will just explode if you try to do that.
You know, you just like watch one every couple of nights.
So I mean, this is just slowed the book down substantially, but I can report
that I am nearing the conclusion of writing the Twin Peaks portion.
I think once that's done, the book will pick up substantially.
But that's one of the topics in the in the in the new book will be
the David Lynch Twin Peaks, all of it.
The first two series, the Firewalk with Me movie, and then the latest
Showtime show episodes.
So that's what I've been really working on, like I said, with these edits.
I should have all this done.
I'm thinking about the next six to seven, maybe eight months top.
So that's what I've been, you know, really, really working on.
And like I explained that, I can't remember if I mentioned this.
I know I mentioned to you off air was I kind of pulled back a little bit
on doing the podcast and just because I didn't want I was a little worried
that, you know, material might be coming a little more state, you know,
becoming stale.
I mean, like I said, how many times can I explain the matrix movie
or the Wizard of Oz or something like that?
I mean, I've been doing podcasting now since 2013.
I mean, so that's what almost, you know, seven years almost.
So it's been a while and I love doing it.
And again, thank you for inviting me on.
I love your show and, you know, you know, we are covering some
interesting topics here.
So it's absolutely right on.
Well, see this, this first episode here, we're going to do a second episode.
Ladies and gentlemen, if you guys are watching, be sure to tune in.
This is just the first one we touched on Astro Theology.
And he delved into some stuff that I'm sure rabbit trails could take
us deeper into.
You have to get the book.
It's on your screen.
The Royal Art Chaveenuck.
I mispronounced it.
The first show we did, Dr.
Luther G Williams pronounced it correctly.
I'm going to grab this book for audio reasons because I can read a book in paper
and just forget what I'm reading after a couple of pages and have to go again.
But while I'm working, I don't know what it is.
I can put a earbuds in.
There's a there's a program where you can convert ebooks into audio.
And it'll read it to me and I could just listen to your book and I'll be fascinated.
Of course, I'm going to want the actual book to look at the actual pictures,
but lots of symbolism, lots of Astro Theology stuff.
I love how you tie this stuff together and maybe we'll have a show sometime
talking about if you can speak on it, free Masonry connections
and wherever you draw the line, you draw the line.
But because, you know, there's there's certain places you can and cannot go.
I suspect.
But that that concludes this one.
Stay tuned, because the second part, guys, we're going to get into some movies.
I think that's where we're going to be heading here, because you got me
want to ask you some questions, so we might as well.
You have anything you'd like to share before we end this episode?
No, I know you'll put it up.
I mean, I always, you know, you know, I always just direct people to the website.
You know, if you're interested in what we've been talking about
and you're interested in the books, just go to my website.
It's very easy to navigate.
It's my name.
My name is Robert W. Sullivan, the fourth.
So my website is www.RobertWSullivanIV.com.
Robert W. Sullivan IV.com.
Links to buy the books, links to my social media.
You follow me on Twitter, Facebook.
There it's updated with upcoming appearances.
This video, once this is posted, we'll go up there.
And again, the site's very easy to navigate by the books.
Information about me, information about upcoming radio shows I'm doing.
You know, book releases, things like that.
So go to the site, check it out www.RobertWSullivanIV.com.
You guys see the website on your screen.
Be sure to check it out.
It'll be in the description, the clickable link.
You guys go check out a stuff and show them some love because he is bringing
very fresh insight and I love hearing this content.
Thanks for joining me on part one.
Let's get part two started here soon.
All right, y'all.
So we're doing it.
