Ladies and gentlemen, join MythVision's Patreon not only to support us but there are 72 videos
that I did with Dr. Dennis Armand-Thonone and Richard Carrier all on the Patreon Early Access.
You guys can ask personal questions when I go to interview these scholars and your help
Dr. Richard Carrier, finally man, in person, MythVision podcast.
Yeah, it's pretty awesome. It is. This will be our first recording and I've got some Patreon
questions so thanks to the Patreon mothers for... Looking forward to it. That's a really great idea.
Awesome. Gordon Bell, he asks, and this is how he phrased it, so if ever there's like a spelling
issue, I'm reading it as it is. That's totally fine. I'm a fundamentalist for my patrons. Would like
to ask Rick if he thinks it's possible that many of the stories written were written to explain
things like the story of Job, the Jews knew that prayer did nothing and they needed a story to explain
why prayer did not work. Even for the most pious of men, many of these stories are written to
either embellish a character or explain away why God is the way he is. Also, still dislike your
MythVision announcement at the beginning of your videos, it's just lame. But still going to donate
because I want you to ask Rick this question for me. I mean, the answer is obviously yes. Yeah,
I mean, all of these stories, even stories within the stories, right? Because you've got like Genesis,
there's a bunch of stories in Genesis. It's not just one long story. They all serve purposes,
right? They're all trying to teach something about something. And that's true for myth in
general. In my book on the historicity of Jesus, I've got in chapter 10, I have a whole early
section where it's just about what do scholars know about mythology and myth writing? What was
myth written for? What does it accomplish? And how was it constructed? Why were these stories
told? And it's exactly what he's talking about there is like, we have some sort of social or
moral problem, we need to tell a story that explains it, explains it away, or provides a
solution for it or something like that. And so you get an apologetic story like that. And I'm
reminded of the comedian David Cross tells us one story about he was hearing a pastor give some
speech or something. And he's the pastor decided to tell a story. It's like, and I was on this
airplane. And there was someone sitting next to me and they were doing something weird. And I asked
them what they were doing. And I'm not doing this justice, by the way, David Cross is a way funnier
comedian. Then he tells the story a long drawn out. And he said, the person turns to them and says,
I am a say I'm a member of the Satanist, whatever, and we are praying for the destruction of the
world or something like that. And David Cross goes, that didn't happen. And he said, it's, but you
see this a lot, like pastors will tell this long story. And you could be very suspicious as to
whether that story is true. Yeah, they're telling it because they want some less, it's a parable,
right? There's some lesson. And this is exactly what Jesus does. So like in Mark, for example,
Mark four, Mark kind of gives us a clue to this, he's sort of a cipher for all gospels, where Jesus
is preaching, he's telling these stories, just like these kinds of stories, like, you know, there's
this guy on a road, and then this thing happened. And he'll tell these stories. But then he turns,
and he says to everybody, let everyone with an ear, let them hear, right? And then he immediately
turns to his disciples in private. And they're asking him, like, what are the meaning of these
these stories you're telling this like, what, you don't know? Like, so, to you, I'm going to tell you
the secret meaning of the story, like what it means. But I'm not going to tell that to the public,
because if I do, then they'll turn and be saved, right? She's a weird thing for Jesus to say,
right? Say, right? But it captures the exact point of mythology is in group and out group logic,
right? Is to say, we're going to tell this story, if you don't get it, you're not one of us.
And so the idea is like, if you do get it, then you, you'll want to be one of us, you'll join,
you get initiated, then we'll tell you the rest of it, like we'll say, like, this is what's really
the story is about, what it's really for, and so on. But outsiders, it's just this seemingly
literal story, this myth. And if they take it literally, they're, they're the ones who are damned,
right? They're the ones who are not going to be saved as the people who look at it allegorically
and figure out the real meaning are the ones who are saved. So it's really funny when you see this
in there, and you look at modern fundamentalism, which is based on literalism and inerrantism
and stuff like that, is they're obsessively driven to be the outsiders that Jesus is condemning in
Mark, right? Rather than being the people who go, you know, actually, you're not supposed to take
it literally, right? You're supposed to actually find the hidden meaning. And yes, all mythology,
and that's not weird. That's actually in context of the ancient world. That is how mythology operated.
It had these stories. The insiders would get it, right? But, you know, outsiders would just see
this weird, stupid story, right? And so that's what myths were constructed that way. And if you
were an insider, you could use these myths that would be very moving. It's a very moving story,
like Job, that you mentioned, like, oh, yeah, let me tell you a story about why life sucks,
and God doesn't do anything about it. And it's this big, long story, and then this happens to him,
and then this happens to him. It's getting the most horrible conditions possible. And then in the
end, you know, it's this big speech by God that explains everything. I could do whatever I want,
basically, is his thing. And yeah, that was their answer to it. I mean, it's a terrible answer, but
it's what they wanted to promote. It's kind of the only thing you can argue. Yeah, what can you do
when divine hiddenness is there the whole time? Your own story said he was showing up at Tabernacles
and things like that, with clouds of his presence being hidden. Yeah, and then they'll tell a story
as to why he stopped doing that, right? Yeah, it's always an excuse when the original myth gives
this idea that he's walking with. Right, and if you notice, so Job is interesting because it starts
with Satan as God's bud, Satan is God's agent. In fact, God tells Satan to go do all these horrible
things to Job. And Satan is in heaven as among the angels of God. So at this point, this Job was
written before the inter-testamental change in the mythology, where Satan became a rebel against
God and had his rebellion and stuff. So it was written before that at that point, Satan is just
the adversary in the legal sense. The term means someone who's supposed to be next to the king
and play devil's advocate, as we say now. Literally, that was the role they were supposed to take. So
they were actually a part of the king's court, this part of God's court. And so it wasn't,
didn't mean that anything like enemy of God or anything like that. It just meant someone who's
supposed to argue with God so that God can like have a sounding board basically. But anyway, God
sends Satan to do all these horrible things. I think he has like a bet with Satan even.
But later you get to a few hundred years after Job was written. The evolution was the Judaism
absorbed the Zoroastrian idea of the duality of the world of the evil God and the good God who
fight each other. And so they had to come up with, how do we have the evil God? We've never had an
evil God fighting our God before, right? That would work, right? You can't say Baal. Solving the
problem of evil. Right. So what they do is they come up with a wall. Satan, he's adversary, we can
associate him with all the bad stuff. Say he rebelled against God and was kicked out of heaven.
And then everything that's gone wrong since then is all Satan's fault. And the God has a plan
to fix this. He's going to fix it. It's just, he's getting there. It's just got to be patient for
when he gets there to fix it. And that was the apocalypse, right? The apocalypse is when Satan
or God would finally overthrow Satan and fix everything Satan screwed up. You know, that's,
that's the new narrative. So that's a different answer than the Job answer. It's, the new answer
is like, it works a little bit better, right? It's, it still has problems and sense of like
the omnipotence of God seems to not be a feature in this story. But it actually at least doesn't
make God the asshole, right? Exactly. Right. So, so like that, that's actually a better way of telling
the story. And, and I think that's why they bought part of it. So when that version of the story,
like, made more sense than continually excusing God by saying, well, God can do whatever he wants.
And I was like, that's not really a good answer. No, no, but what did you change that to? Well,
God, God is going to do, he's God knows, trust us, God knows he's going to fix everything. Just
got to be patient. And that's the, and then the narrative they would use is the prophetic narrative.
The only reason God hasn't fixed it yet is because Israel keeps sinning. If you just stop sinning,
and so it's all your fault, right? And that became the narrative that was very effective as a marketing
tool that so much so that it's still a component of Christianity today, right? The only reason God
hasn't come and fixed everything is because we just were so fallen and we're just not getting
with it. We're not enough of us are praying for God to come or whatever, right? So it's
similar kind of thinking still exists today. Yeah. But, but that holds based on a myth,
right? The myth of Satan warring against God, a legion of angels, when it was like,
there's a whole historical narrative that's completely made up, but they believed it and
sold it as actual literal history. And there might be some of them that would give a allegorical
interpretation of it, but usually it was sold as literal. Like this, this actually happened.
There was actually a Satan at some historical point, actually rebelled against God. He's one
of God's angels. He took a legion of angels with him. All the demons are children of these dark
angels and earthly human women. And they have this whole bizarre narrative and you find it in
Book of Enoch, by the way, or at least find a lot of this in the Book of Enoch, which was a foundational
text for Christianity. Christianity is built on the myth of Enoch. It's built on all of this.
So it's mythology built on top of mythology, on top of mythology is the way it works. And it's
all just explained stuff. Like we want, we have certain things we want to explain, certain values
and ideas we want to promote. So we're going to tell a story. That's how we're going to do it. And
it's just like Jesus as the parables. He has a particular message, a particular moral point of
view, a particular way of behaving, a solution for a social problem. And he does it as the way
he's portrayed as doing it in the Gospels is he tells a story. The story is not literally true,
but it is supposed to represent something that you're supposed to learn about from the parable.
And so that represents how mythology writing generally operated. And then you had the two
different camps of thought, which is we can accept the myth is not literal and just go for the allegory.
And then the people who started to like, no, the myth has to be true. It becomes sort of
rhetorically important for the myth to be true because if the myth isn't true, then the message
somehow can't be true because fiction is fiction, right? So you get this literalist movement,
it rises, you see it in the second century already. You see these literalists are saying,
no, these things are true, as opposed to the ones who are saying, no, they're allegories or something.
The allegorical camp got shut out. Basically, they lost the war for control of the church.
But we see this exact same debate among the rabbis. So it's nothing new about this debate.
And we see it in the rabbinicals, you look at Talmud, there's an argument about,
there's a passage in Ezekiel, where it called the Valley of Dry Bones, where Ezekiel gives
this big long passage about how he looked at this valley full of bones, and he saw them with
flesh form on them, and they rose from the dead. And there's the two camps of rabbis who are arguing
over this. And one is saying, it's an allegory for the future resurrection of Israel. And even
just an allegory for the political reunification of Israel, right? It's not even necessarily
about a resurrection, literally. So they're saying, no, it's just an allegory. But there was a whole
camp of rabbis. He says, no, it literally happened. And my uncle Joe claims to be descended from one
of the resurrected people. So they literally have made up our own family history to sort of justify
the literalism of this story. Oh, wow. And so for that camp, it was necessary that it be true,
because that proves God's power, they prove resurrection is real. If you say it's an allegory,
that you're basically shitting on their whole belief system and their whole family history.
Right. And so it's necessary for that camp that it be true. But there's the other camp that doesn't
need it to be true. And when you look at the history of Christianity, it's the literalists
that actually take over the church and start to dominate and then eventually get Constantine's
ear. And they're the ones who run the church thereafter. You know, damned if you do and damned
if you don't, though, because yeah, this is the idea with a lot of people on myth vision, as you
could see the kind of content that I do. A lot of the people on myth vision that I engage with,
they come on and they'll go when I, well, let's say I'm jabbing at the idea of a physical resurrection
or I'm jabbing at some idea that sounds to be literal. Yeah. Okay, that right there alone,
they go, see, you're an idiot, you don't know what it's talking about. And these are people who are
not in the church, right? But they claim to have the truth. And they'll be like, it's allegory,
you idiot. Well, for those who think that, I want to go ahead and address the elephant in the room
and say, Dr. Carrier is a self-proclaimed atheist, someone who does not ontologically believe any
of this, right, to be as truth. He understands your master's parables, my friends. What they've
done is they want to save the face of the text and of Jesus and things like that to still keep
and restore some type of spirituality based off of it, right? So they want to take away anything
literal, take away the physical, take away the actual, hey, didn't mean pluck your real eye out
and throw it into the fire, allegory for just stop doing it or whatever. Okay. If they did that
consistently, that'd be great. Right? If you say, oh, yeah, it's all allegory. Oh, okay, we're on the
same camp then. We're good to go. Yeah, but didn't they mean whatever though? See, this is the thing
they should do to get into these really strange interpretations. This is the argument, this
is an argument, one of the arguments that Hector Avalos made in his book, The End of Biblical
Studies. And like the whole theme of that book is, I'm trying to argue to the public that I should
be fired. Basically, I shouldn't have, I should be out of a job. And so he, the whole book is like,
Biblical, we spend too much, we're devoting too many resources, too many personnel to Biblical
studies. You make the comment like there's, we have tons, tens of thousands of Babylonian tablets
that are sitting untranslated for want of personnel to go in and translate them. We know for it,
like the University of Chicago, I think alone has like tens of thousands of Greek and Latin and
other language papyri that are just sitting, foundering there untranslated for want of personnel
to translate them. All these other cultures are getting neglected and tons and tons of personnel
are just pouring in writing the zillion commentaries on the same single book of the New Testament.
Right? And this argument is like, there should be fewer of us. Like we should be a specialty discipline.
We should be spreading out more and covering more of human history. And so he's,
goes to, in the first year, like completely annihilates fundamentalist scholarship and explains
how bogus that is. But then he has a whole section on liberal scholarship, the scholarship that tends
to get it right, or at least is going in the right direction. It says even that, like, is valuable
when it's just scholarship, but it's often deployed for liberal Christian apologetics. The example
would be like trying to argue that the Bible never says anything against homosexuality, right?
And so like that's another, that's a version of sort of specious exegesis of the text,
both New and Old Testament. Right. But it is pushed as scholarly is like, oh, we're,
we're giving the historical context, we're looking at the original language and all this stuff,
and we're proving our point. It's the same thing about Hector Avalos's point is like,
this is just as bogus, right? Why are we even bothering with this? What does it matter if the
New Testament or Old Testament promotes or homosexuality or not? It's a primitive text written
by people 2000 years ago, didn't know what they're talking about most of the time, right? So, so we
shouldn't be basing our lives on this. There's so much more literature we could be looking at to
find things in, and rather than trying to save the text for the religion. So that was, that's,
he has this whole section on liberal Christianity based on that point. And it's similar to what
you're saying, like you can come at the text and you can make it say anything you want. But, and this
is why the fundamentalists, that's why fundamentalists exist, by the way, because, because of that,
because you can go in and you can make it say anything you want. And that, you know, if you
notice that that's a big problem. Because that means it's just human ideas. You're not, you're
not really getting the word of God. You're just making it say whatever you want. There's no
boundaries. There's no limitations to what you can do. So the fun, so the solution is say,
literalism. Therefore, there's only one way to take it. And so it's the way to force you to like,
correct. Now, of course, they end up reinterpreting it in a million different ways. Anyway,
but their package, the cell they have is in a, we're doing literalism. We are taking the text
literally for what it says. And so that's actually more rhetorically useful. It avoids the serious
problem of what happens when you admit what you're actually doing, which is just reading into
whatever you want. Michael Lacona, for example. Yeah, famous case for Matthew 27, the zombie
apocalypse. Yeah, for people who don't know this, right? Yeah, this is the story. Michael Lacona,
as a Christian apologist, and with a PhDs, you know, full scholar and everything. And he
just dared and he did this huge book on the resurrection. He just dared to suggest this
one passage is allegory, right? And it's the passage where in Matthew, Jesus dies and then
all the saints rise out of the graves. And he's very specifically like come out of the tomb. So
like literal resurrection. So this mass resurrection of these, you know, long dead saints, and then
come into town and visit people, right? So there's this mass resurrection appearance. This is a big
problem for Christian apologists because they like, I really don't think a story, if that had
actually happened, that this would be the only mention of it in the entirety of the historical
record. It's also has other problems, because it means there was a mass resurrection already
before the general resurrection. So there's like a theological problem with this. There's a lot of
issues that that trump up against, bump up against fundamentalist ideology. So his solution is, no,
this is just an allegory for the future resurrection. It wasn't a literal event. And he, they fired him.
He was fired for it. So, you know, could he be right? Maybe, maybe, but even then I don't,
I'll read it. And I'm like, no, I think they're making a claim here. Just like they're making
a claim by Herod, right? Is that an allegory that we know he memetically is taking over? Right,
right. I think it's both, right? So when you look at Mark, I think Mark very clearly
does not, he doesn't expect insiders to take it literally. Like the whole Gospel, I think he
means it as allegory, as stories we tell to explain things. When you get to Matthew, Matthew adds
something Mark does not. Matthew keeps adding and vests this fulfilled prophecy. It's making a
historical claim. In other words, he's claiming this happened, thereby fulfilling prophecy. So
that's the first time we see a historicist mindset in the Gospels. Matthew's doing this. Now I think
Matthew, but Matthew's also doing tons of allegory, right? It's very obvious. When you look at the
empty tomb narrative, it's just all a riff on Daniel and the lion's den. And like there's all
these other things going on there. So I think he's going for both audiences. He's going for the
literalist people, like I mentioned with those rabbis before, the literalist camp. He's going
for the literalists and they can take the text literally. That's fine. But he's also going for
the allegorists. So he's all this underlying allegory that can, that can nurture them, you know,
that they don't want to take the literal truth. They want the allegory. It'll be there for them.
So he's hitting both markets and thus he has more people who will like his gospel and use his
gospel. So it's actually a brilliant marketing tactic. When you get to Luke, the historicism
gets more blatant. Like now he's really like modeling historical, like historians' prefaces
he models. Interestingly, he models the structure of the preface but lacks all the information that
would actually be in a historical preface, like his name, how he knows any of the stuff he's talking
about, the names of his sources and things like this. That's the kind of thing we would normally
find in a preface is why should you believe me and who am I, etc. So any of us that's not on the
preface, it'll be in one of the chapters that that information was common in historicity or
historical literature at the time. But no, he's imitating that. So it looks and sounds like it.
So you won't notice that he hasn't given you any information, right? But it looks like it. And he
puts in details that add dates and, you know, in the census of Corineus. And then the ministry
of John the Baptist begins when all these people were reigning. And so regnal dates is how you
would date things. So that looks just like a history. But no one really notices that he only
dates the beginning of John the Baptist's ministry, not the ministry of Jesus. He's super vague about
when Jesus started. But you're supposed to sort of, like, assume that it's the same time. But it
really, that's not what the text literally says. But anyway, so Luke adds all of these historical
details. And he's also the first to add the resurrection appearance, where he adds the
detail, like in Matthew, where it says Jesus appeared to them on the mountain or whatever,
and some doubted. Right. It just throws it out there, some doubted. And then you get to Luke,
and he says, well, okay, yes, some doubted, but they were convinced. And here's why. And he
Jesus shows the eats, you can touch him, he's physical. So this is a big message about what
the nature of the resurrection is. So there's competing camps about what the nature of the
resurrection is. So Luke is in one camp, and he's using a story to sell his version. So it's clear
that he means some people to take this literally, and he wants to convince those people. But I think
at the same time, there's a lot of allegory going on. The Emmaus narrative and all of that is just
tons of like symbolism happening here. So he's also, I think he's grabbing the allegorical market
as well. So he's doing both. By the time you get to John, I mean, John has tons of allegory in
there as well, but he is repeatedly adamant that this actually happened and you're damned if you
don't believe it, you know, that kind of stuff. And I'm telling you these stories, and they really
happened. People were really there and saw it. And so we're telling it to you now so that you will
believe, like he explicitly tells you what his motive is. He is trying to make you believe.
Yeah. And so he then he really another level of it. He takes Luke's touching the body narrative and
really like elaborates it out into the Thomas Didimus touching the wounds. Like it's the it's
more detail, right? And this gets to something that I maybe we'll talk about a little bit more
later is one of the common things that I find with Christian apologetics is the what I've started
to call formalized gullibility. It's like gullibility as a methodology. And I did this with
the Craig Evans debate. He did this lot in that debate where it's like, well, it's so vividly
described, it must be a memory, right? And it's like that goes and that's really gullible, right?
First of all, but also it goes against everything we know about literature. When you look at going
classics in ancient history in my field of history, they say the opposite. It's like the more elaborate
and vivid it is, the more you should doubt it, right? So when you look at like the battle of
what there's this battle by Alexander the Great, this famous one where he crosses the river and
stuff. And there's different versions of what happened. And there's one version where Alexander
the Great goes to meet the Persians there, they camp overnight, and then he sneaks his army down,
crosses the river, forwards the river, comes over and ambushes them in the morning, right? Or just
before morning. And then there's the version where they clash in the middle of the of the river and
Alexander charges down with his horse and his gleaming helmet and his, you know, flowing, you
know, plume and all of this stuff. And that is fiction, right? That's, that didn't happen. Obviously
Alexander the Great. Right. Right. And so it's like all of these details, the more detail you see
like that, the less likely it's a memory, the more likely this is literary embellishment. There's
something else going on here. And this is also true in urban legends. So you like go and look at the
urban legend, legend literature, one of the points that the scholars in this field make is that
the urban legends get more specific historical details added over time. And then the details
will all be shifted out when you want to move the the legend to a different location, right? So
if it moves from one state to another, all the little markers will now have been transformed
to markers familiar to people in that state or that city or whatever, right? And so you over time
these urban legends acquire these veneer of historical details. So Christian apologists
act like it's the other way around. Oh, look at all these historical details in Luke. It must be
true. It's like, actually, that is a sign that it isn't true. Because you look at the progression
from a total urban legend in Mark to something being slightly historicized in Matthew. And
now you have Luke totally historicized, get putting in all these details that weren't there
before, right? So that's actually for us really suspicious to historians. But Christian apologists
have the gullible. Oh, no, it's more detailed. It's got to be true. They're they're not looking
at this in context of how these texts get created and changed over time. So Gordon Bell, when he
said, um, also still dislike your myth is an announcement at the beginning of your videos,
it's just lame, but still going to donate. I think that's an allegory. I think he's he doesn't mean
that literally. Definitely some allegory here. So Gordon, I know that there's a secret message
you're trying to convey, but thank you, Dr. Kerry. I appreciate it.
