Dr. Richard C. Miller, your work. Again, anyone watching, seriously get resurrection and reception
at early Christianity, I'm pushing him, don't worry, to make a more popular level, non-academic
book that really gets his whole position out there into a broader audience because it's your
stuff's dense, but it's very, very highly intellectual and very powerful material.
I live in a different world. You live in what I call the ivory tower scholarly world where you
talk to each other through your works, whereas I deal with the everyday mom,
pop, sister, brother, people who are struggling with life and half-faith and some don't have faith,
faith has traumatized some, some that's helped, whatever. And a lot of these Christians will look
to Richard Bacchum, Craig Evans, they're looking to Mike Lacona, what can we find that they get
an accurate geographical place? So they understand, they have some verisimilitude, the Gospels seem
to have verisimilitude, they talk about people, a real people, a Caiaphas, we found this tomb,
we know where his ashiwari is, it's in the Israel Museum, I saw it when I was there.
Like, here are these people, places, things that make it look kind of real. So you, Mr. Miller,
I'm pointing at you like, hey, you, Mr. Miller, how dare you not recognize that these are historical
books that are giving you accurate what happened? Now they make a leap. And then this, to you mean,
we would obviously not find this an accurate leap, but they make the leap that some mundane piece of
information that might be factual about a place, a person or something. Then you can go, well, we
could trust it. Now angels are flying everywhere and dead bodies are coming out of graves and like
all sorts of stuff like that is happening. And they kind of somehow go, now it's just human. So
you just deny miraculous events and that's why you can't accept these accounts. But they use
the verisimilitude argument to give credibility to saying, you can trust this guy we call Mark,
because Mark knows about a place called Capernaum in Galilee or, you know, Philippi or something.
What are your thoughts about the verisimilitude argument to try to bring validity, historical
reliability or validity to these texts? Yeah, this is not footage of live first century ontological
events. The use of verisimilitude in the ancient world was commonplace. In fact, we would be surprised
not to find it there. I would put back to them. I don't know the individuals of whom you speak,
for the most part. I would put back to them, hey, let's, how about trotting out a list of
other exceptions? You know, where, where do we find, let's see, let's put it this way. Where do we
find any major or well known text from classical antiquity that does not apply verisimilitude,
that's inventive and fictive? Like, let's use Homer. Yeah, I always like to go to book 10 because
it's the we passages and sure, there's differences between what acts is doing in this eighth century
BC, seventh century BC book, the Odyssey. But in book 10, he talks about the Aeolian island and
Aeolus and, and all of this like real detail, they go into some real, very, very detailed
discussions. But we all categorize it as poetry, and it fits into this ancient literature that's
fictive, right? Yet, the Aeolian islands are real. The sea is legit. These are real places.
Some people that are mentioned in these books, Troy, we think is an actual place that really
existed and they've built a legend, a fictive legendary tale surrounding these places. So
you're suggesting that like, maybe they can find a list, and it's going to be very short, that has
no verisimilitude to reality and it's fictive. Would you say that that's kind of an anachronistic
thing to say, well, we have Lord of the Rings, or we have some like non like Game of Thrones,
I love it, but it takes place in a completely different planet. It's not even our...
Yeah. Yeah. So Lucian's True Lies is a fantasy written in the second century. He's actually
making a mockery of other writings in some ways in doing so. It's a raw fantasy, though. I mean,
you've got all sorts of things, ants going up to the moon and all kinds of wild, you know, it's,
it's clearly not meant to be taken in any other way than as fantasy. Okay.
Kind of science fiction almost, like the precursor to that in some way.
Now, that's an exception. That's one exception, right? But it's a fantasy world, right?
That kind of writing was alien to the ancient world for the most part. You had, you know,
if you want to talk about the metamorphosis, right, where you've got this fellow who's
transformed into a donkey and he walks around the Roman Empire and has encounters with people and
all sorts of things happen. It's set in historical contexts. There's actual places and names and
things like this going on. This is normal, right? This is kind of the normal way that you would
present. And there would normally be a map as well. You know, if you look at the Odyssey,
you could see a map, you know, you could, you could lay out the map. There's scholars that you
could go online right now and Google map of the Odyssey, you know, Odysseus' journey.
And you could see, oh, that's the actual Mediterranean, you know, sea and real islands and
so forth, just like you point out. Which makes me think of Axe and Paul's journey, these real
islands and stuff like that. Right. Okay. These kind of arguments actually anger me in some way.
Forgive me for this, but what even is a legend? You know, if it's not defined as kind of the nexus
between a real contextualized, you know, usually a actual person in history who upon that person is
upon whom is placed tall tales and embellishments and this kind of thing. That's what a legend is,
right? It's kind of the combination. It's not pure myth. It's myth that is set in a historical
context and applied to possibly or someone who might be supposed to be a historical person.
And so now you could say that there are some legends that are a historical, like if you're
talking about Paul Bunyan or something like that. Romulus might fit that too. Yeah, exactly. But
they were playing in their minds with, is this guy real? They actually had his house there in Rome.
You could go to it, you know. They actually had evidence that they supposed that this person was
actually a historical person. So they were playing with the idea anyway. And so that's what a legend
is. It's, you know, St. Patrick. We celebrate St. Patrick's Day in the United States here.
For what? Does anyone know? You know, you could probably drive, you know, 100 miles from here
and have a hard time finding anyone who actually knows who's the first thing about St. Patrick.
Well, he's a legendary figure, a real person that went to, you know, went to Ireland and kind of
and he ridded the island of all the snakes through some magic of his and as a, you know, in this
kind of thing. And there's tall tales that applied to him with the historical St. Patrick is all
but lost to us. St. Nicholas, who is that person? You know, that's an extreme example in another
direction. And so you could fill in the gaps we could sit here and list, you know, 500 legendary,
you know, embellished figures in history. And it would be shocking to find one historical,
you know, one figure from the ancient world who was elevated as a religious icon that had no
embellishment, had no fiction applied, had no tall tales, no legend, you know, if you go over to
Buddha or Zoroaster or you fill in the blank all across. This is commonplace, the holy man in
antiquity that rose to that kind of iconographic level. I mean, even Islam, right? Which likes to
claim this idea like Mohammed is not out here performing all those miracles. They couldn't
help but have him split the moon, fly on Pegasus to the moon, like to heaven. I mean, like, there's,
they couldn't even help it. And I mean, that's anachronistic as well, because there's this
assumption that they're so rational and philosophical minded that they didn't put him on
Son of God status. They had this really mundane guy. They have legends about their own person.
Everybody's doing it. And I think it's really interesting to the only people in the room
for that discussion. The elephant in the room is the person standing there going,
but this one's different. And it's not even different. And they're only saying one strand
of this one is different. If you look at the other permutations of Christianity that didn't
make it into that one Orthodox trajectory, like first, for instance, Manichaeanism,
that's to the east. That's not towards the empire. That's toward Persia and India. Well,
it's synchronizing with Indic and Parthian mythology and putting all that together into
its own gumbo. And so they're nowhere in that. Do you find Jesus elevated as Son of God or
demigod or ascension or virgin birth or any of that stuff? And so if you go to Egyptian
permutations, like say the Gnostic traditions and these kinds of things, you end up with a whole
another kind of recipe of how he's decorated there and dressed up in a certain way that makes sense
in that milieu. So it's syncretic. It's trying to adopt the, it's built on the bedrock or pulling
in the myth, the mythic standards of the context with whence it went. And so it's a syncretic
project. So it's adopting and trying to make this kind of gumbo with basically Greco-Roman forms
in the Hellenistic and Roman trajectory. And so that's exactly what we find in the New Testament.
One comment as we bounce back to Varus Militude, and that is just, I have said, I'm sure several
before me have said this, but this has just been my observation, the reason that Christianity has
been so successful using evolution as a model. I used to think survival of the fittest meant
the strongest will survive. And it's not about strongest. It's the one that is willing to adapt
to its environment and change the most. Christianity, it can go any direction. I mean, you can have a
Black Jesus and a White Jesus, a Ku Klux Klan Jesus and an Afrocentric Jesus. It will go anywhere
you want it. And that's why it's, I think, was so successful is that it will adopt and become
whatever you wanted it to be. And this is as early as we can go, what Christianity was. And you
brought it up to my attention. I've heard it before from several scholars in the past, but it's
just the idea that they're even in the New Testament, the different voices are different
community groups or at least different cultic observations and perceptions of Jesus competing
with each other. And John, John has Thomas of all people have to touch Jesus. Why? Because in the
Thomasian tradition, Jesus wasn't this corporeal physical person. He was a phantom of some sort.
He had, you know, depends on the tale that you might read, but they wanted to nail Thomas
in a propagandistic way against the Thomasian Christians and say, hey, look, your dude even
recognized. And I think they did it with John the Baptist followers in the New Testament by going,
look, even Jesus humbly said of women born, none greater than John. However, there's one greater
than I, John says. Yeah, I can't even unloose his sandal. Like, so there's a, there's a propaganda
to do this. And the real, this is a psychological question. It always comes back to me wanting
to psychoanalyze. And that's what sucks, because the Christian buddies of mine, and they're talking,
Oh, Derek, quit playing in our minds or trying to understand our brains and what we're doing.
Stop. And we just need to have this real vigorous academic discussion of the details here. And I'm
thinking to myself, how do you not see this as walking like a dog, talking like that? I just
don't understand. So as a scholar, once was like me devout and really, I'll use the word brainwashed,
but I don't mean it derogatory, but I guess you can take it that way. I drank the Kool-Aid, right?
Like if my cult leader at the time would have poisoned it, I might have drank it. That's how
nutty I was in this. And they may not be that, well, you were too deep. No wonder you're like
you are today. How do you assess that in your observation of people out there that are claiming
to want to do this historical work or really research in apologetics? And they act like they
really want to honestly engage in this material, but I don't know how they can't see what I'm saying.
I'm a little frustrated, as you can see. I'm very frustrated because these people are looking at me
somewhat going, I'm honestly seeking and wanting to know. And I'm going, but then how come you're
not seeing this? Yeah, I have mixed feelings about that. I come out of it just like you,
and so I have empathy for those folks in some ways. It's where they started from. They weren't,
like I said, in the depths of some library-making study. That's not where it all begins. It begins
in a pew, an altar call, a sing-along, a camp, or whatever. You're starting to get involved in
this community. You're starting to organize your life around it, starting to make sense. You're
starting to believe and really, really feel like something's happening and this sort of thing.
And that's where people get, they learn what the Gospels are in that context. It's hard to get out
of that. It really is mentally hard to get out of that. And you have Miller and all these other
people on your show that are saying, it's not that, it's not that. And really what you've got is this
heavy theological set of goggles that are placed on you. When you first even get to make your
investigation, your first impressions of what's going on there are with these goggles on. You've
got the glue of the book itself holding these diverse documents together as if they all are in
concert in some way. As if all these people got into a room somewhere and decided on having a
similar or precisely aligned message or something like that. That's something that wouldn't have
existed in these documents circulated independently in the New Testament particularly. And so
the idea that, and so that's a theological kind of assumption that you're fed right up front,
that it's hard to break out of. Which is why I think they fight night and day to trying,
in my opinion, some of them want to nail Mark as Mark, Luke as Luke, Matthew as Matthew,
John as John. They want that patristic clout to dive back to the authorial
being someone who's there, who witnessed the guy or talked to the witness or talked to the
apostle or whatever. And they're dying on that hill. Even right now, I've got a guy, David Palamon.
He's really a smart, really, I mean, he's read more than me, but I think he's read materials,
more materials in a vein that isn't in the vein that I'm reading in. But he's really well read.
And I'd love to see him truly look at this up. But he's into the Matthew and priority thing. And I
feel like he wants to rely on the patristics because they give him the cloud of Matthew and
priority because it helps this apologetic. And I can't help but see it and think, well,
he might think, well, you want Mark in priority because you want to see this mundane gospel help
suit your little evolutionary view of the developing legendary stuff. And you have
really no reason to think Mark is like the first gospel. And it just drives me a little bit, not
at some time. Yeah, no, I love these people. I really do. It's just, yeah, no doubt, no doubt.
I think we have to understand that these are competing kind of different currents of the
earliest tradition, Christianities, as some people have talked about here at the Claremont
colleges, there's not a single Christianity. There's Christianities that are almost immediately
arrayed. If you read One Jesus Many Christ by Gregory J. Riley, it's a very interesting book. I
think you can still find it, probably use copy somewhere or something, but maybe even still
in print. And that's his idea that he does believe that there was a, or conclude that there was a
historical figure somewhere behind all this, but that almost any, you know, he says, you know,
what did they do? Did they all just get into a room, you know, after Pentecost or whatever,
and, you know, put their hands together and say, okay, let's agree, let's agree on the message.
Now break. And they all just distributed out throughout the Greco-Roman world and had this
lockstep message together. Well, that's just not what we see in the messy evidence at all. We see
conflict. We see struggle. We see schools of thought, people trying to reconcile one school
under another and trying to, and competing ideas. And so I, you know, it's hard to find a good
analogy sometimes for that. I've thought about even like martial arts or something, you know,
were they competing in the hard sense of hating one another? There might have been some of that
going on as well. I think even between the Pauline folks and the original trade and Palestine,
you know, the so-called apostles or pillars as he mocks them, you know, there's some, there's
some stuff going on there. And I think we need to see those sparks that are flying there and
recognize. But acts shows them as singing kumbaya. Anyway, there's so many interesting things you're
saying. So I got us off track, a little bit of my little event session there. And I appreciate
you listening. I feel like I'm having therapy right now. But the very similitude thing, the point
is, is do some homework, check it out, go find us any text that don't have verisimilitude to
geography, places, people, things like that. Thank you. Yeah. Yeah. And you're just going to find
that the overwhelming, you might find exceptions, of course, but it's like, so it's, it's like your
argument about the early church. And we might as well know that real quick before anyone runs further.
I found something that sounds like in the sky, whose name, and we don't even know who the guy
is, maybe some small dude on the side. And you're like, even if they found someone who
tried to make what sounded like maybe some historiographical claim of the resurrection or
something, it would be a rule, it would be an exception to the rule rather than being the rule
itself that we see overall. Yeah, I think I think it even, I mean, you can even make the case that
it makes my case even stronger. All you did, you mean that's all you found? Right. Out of all the
breadth of ancient literature, you found one or two examples? That's not going to do it, right?
Right. That shouldn't persuade any rational person at that point. And I think that's the
same here. If someone were to trot forward a text that was inventive or that was fictional,
but then also was devoid of actual historical place names and figures and cities and whatever
islands and maps and all that stuff, then it would be just that an exception. It wouldn't,
it would not help the, it would actually help my case because what we would be saying is that
that particular observation in the Gospels is not an indicator one way or the other,
whether it's fiction or not. So it's not helpful to the discussion. Thank you.
I hope you liked my dad Richard Miller in this interview. Remember to like and subscribe
and never forget, we are Miss Miller.
