There are hundreds of videos that haven't been launched on YouTube on Patreon.
Make sure you guys join the Patreon to help us grow.
We are MythVision.
Welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
Your host, Derek Lambert.
Guys, I told you, on my journey within Christianity, I came to a finality
if you will, and recognized that there was the end.
Eschatology, the study of the end of time, if you will, or the study of last things,
was the place I landed at, and that was the last stand for me within Christianity.
I started to realize Jesus had made some statements that appeared that he was going to happen
to come back soon.
Some of the disciples wouldn't die, wouldn't taste death until they saw him coming in glory.
All these things, right, which I mentioned full preterism because that was my last stand
before comparative mythology, and I escaped.
Recently, I came across my friend's book here about preterism, and I really recommend
you guys go in the description, click the link, get the book.
If you have Amazon Unlimited Kindle, it's free.
If you have Audible, it's Audible, and the guy who reads this book out reads it amazing.
I just say all that to say, get the book, read it.
It's not a long book, two hours it took me to listen to it, and I learned a lot, even
as a full preterist that I was, that I didn't know about the movement.
Roderick Edwards has joined us today.
What's up, Roderick?
Hey, thank you.
It's going good.
Awesome, and so let's start off at the very beginning here for everybody who's watching.
There seems to have been a problem, and critical scholars have pointed out, you know, the end
was supposed to happen back then.
I mean, they've noticed this for a while now.
I know Bertrand Russell, I think, said one of the reasons he wasn't a Christian is Jesus
promised that he was going to come back, but he didn't come back.
And this is one of his reasons, among many, that he had mentioned this.
But I know a lot of Christians, like me, who saw Jesus, claimed that he was going to come
back.
Maybe you can give them what preterism is, since the book is about preterism.
Tell us what preterism is, what's partial, what's full.
Give us a little rundown, if you don't mind.
Well, preterism, not to get too tight on it, comes from the word preterite, which is a
Latin word for basically past.
So as the book kind of plays on, the end is past.
Preterism basically says, like you said, Jesus constantly saying, it's about to happen
soon at hand.
Well, preterism says, well, he really meant it.
He meant it in the first century, that there was going to be an end.
Now, you get different flavors of preterism.
Some say it's literal, and some say it's figurative.
So at any rate, it's still a end, a past, a finality, as you mentioned in the first
part, that they reach.
Yeah.
So for those of you who know Christians, like I did, like I used to believe too, Jesus
is coming back soon.
Yeah.
The end is near.
He's coming back.
Don't worry.
It's about to happen.
But man, if they knew a lot of the time statements, which you mentioned, that's the primary tool,
like the very foundational tool that full preterists use are time statements to build
their case.
These Christians might reconsider on any moment Jesus is coming back when they actually look
at the book and say, well, there might be some things here that are going on that I'm
not aware of.
However, you take a deep dive into the history and show that, well, the historic church didn't
actually buy this idea.
Preterism is kind of a more recent thing, and it's kind of a reformation, if you will,
right now.
And the conclusions that you draw, like some of the movements and what they were willing
to do, based on their interpretations of the end being in the past, is just a remarkable
historical blunder, if you will.
Right.
They're definitely jumping through all kinds of hoops to make it work, to make their whole
scenario work.
Usually you get Christians who will just simply say, a thousand years is a day with
the Lord.
So, yeah, when we see that in the Bible where the end is near and at hand, they can just
stretch as far as they want.
We have the Benny Hens and the TBNs of the world who every day come on there and tell
you that any minute is going to happen, but they've been saying that for 30, 40, 50 years
as long as TBN has been on the air.
And at some point, people get tired of hearing that, because they have to live life.
They have to wake up every morning and go through the struggles of life, and no longer
can they say, well, tomorrow Jesus is going to come and it all doesn't matter.
Well, you wake up 30, 40 times and keep saying that to yourself.
Eventually you just get tired of saying it, and you have to realize that it doesn't look
like it's going to happen.
And then so then you've got the Christians saying, the scoffers say, the end is not near,
blah, blah, blah.
So you get all these conflicting messages going on.
Eventually what some of these people do is just say, forget it all.
And I think that's where we get to some with the preterism.
The preterism really is the last plateau of Christian theology, if you want to think
about that, you know, we already dealt with who gets baptized and who doesn't get baptized
and how do you get to heaven, blah, blah, blah.
Well, now how does it all wrap up?
This is the end of all theology.
I was told when I was a full preterist to stay away from you.
Oh, yeah.
I'm not even kidding you.
And I know I think I wrote you one or two times back then.
And it was like brief, like barely like it was in passing.
And I never really listened to what you had to say, because they're trying to tell me
that you were going to try and like steer people off of the truth.
Well, you know how that goes.
Like, right.
And so I never really knew, but you were a full preterist for 15 years.
Right.
And even when I was a full preterist, full preterist didn't like me.
I'm just trying to say this as a as a badge, I'm honored.
But because I was like, OK, wait a minute.
So as a full preterist, we say that the Chief Shepherd has a return.
Chief Shepherd being Jesus.
And we read in Peter that when the Chief Shepherd returns, the under shepherds,
pastors are going to be rewarded and given their crowns.
And that'll be the end.
But yet we had these preterist pastors that were running around all the time.
Like, how do you fit into the story that you just
laid out for me that the Chief Shepherd's already returned?
And yet you're a preterist pastor.
What's your reward? How mean? How's that work?
It's not even in your narrative.
So they didn't like me.
But I was just asking honest questions.
I wasn't trying to really bash them or anything.
But so that's the reason why even the preterist didn't like you talk.
Anybody talking to me.
Yeah, if they go to those conclusions, they might not be a preterist.
They might not attend my church.
They might not give me money.
They might not buy my books.
Well, they might not because according to preterism,
they don't even need you anymore.
You know, when when when the Lord comes,
no one needs to teach his brother anymore.
So even preterist didn't like it.
Wow. Yeah, there's a lot there, man.
You you give a historical significance to some of the players within preterism.
But most our audience is going to watch us aren't
because it isn't a very big movement.
And my audience probably isn't familiar with this at all.
Right. Guys, what full preterism is, in my opinion,
and maybe you can give me your thoughts on this, Roderick.
Full preterism is a salvation of the Savior theory.
It's a it's a theory, in my opinion, that is trying to save.
Jesus, Jesus, Jesus, Jesus said he's going to return
or the end of the age is about to happen.
The end of the world is about to take place.
Some of his disciples standing there would not taste death.
And then, of course, you have these strange things.
This is not really in preterist vain, but they use this passage,
but I don't think they really see what it's saying about John and John chapter
twenty one or the beloved disciple and saying that, well, not not saying
that he wouldn't die, but what if it be his will?
If it, you know, and there's some interesting things,
but they're trying to, I think, protect already people are saying,
hold on, man, you guys just said he wasn't going to die.
And, you know, and they're trying to fix the problem.
So they're preterists are trying to save face, the ones that believe.
But see, go ahead and tell me your thoughts of preterism,
what you think it is, too.
Well, one thing is, again, we're talking about your audience, perhaps here,
that, you know, this is Christianity stuff.
This is all that religion stuff.
I don't even need to listen to this show.
But you have to realize that Christianity, in general,
has had such an impact on the way world had the way the world's developed
and nations, especially America, has developed.
So ignoring the fact that we have this and understanding why did,
you know, the Puritans behave the way they did,
why do we have the laws we have, you know, even blue laws,
like you can't even buy alcohol in some places still,
because the blue law has a certain effect, things like that.
It's good to understand where they all came from if you don't believe them.
So it's good to understand why do we have all these people, even Ronald Reagan,
he was very, very evangelical and believed that the end was about to happen
and all this stuff in his, his foreign policy was based on that.
So it's important to know why, why this all happens.
And now we get to the epitome of it.
Preterism is the end going to be right around the door.
And if not, if the end is not going to be, what if preterism took over?
What if preterism became the next president's philosophy of foreign, foreign policy?
You touch on that.
How would they treat Israel?
You know, because Israel is supposedly the chosen people of God
and we can't ever do anything against Israel, the modern day Israel, even Israelis.
But what if the preterist pastor or a preterist president became in power?
So it's important to know this.
And I think it's important for anybody to read this book, as you said,
just to understand how that would all work.
I think that there is a tendency, in my opinion, based on what I've heard
from some preterist and mostly most preters have this in the back of their head
that the modern day Jews aren't really authentic because what they do is they
cherish the New Testament's narrative to a point where there's neither Jew nor
Gentile. In fact, we don't have any like anyone who claims to be a Jew.
It almost seems anti-Semitic in some way.
Because I mean, because if if you agree that Judaism has really gone on
and continues and outlasted its whole dysphoria and all that stuff,
then it kind of messes up the whole preterist narrative.
So they have to basically say, these people aren't really Jews.
They have no relation to Jews at all, matter of fact.
So they can't have it existing because even you get the dispensationalist
on the other side, the futurist for people who don't understand that.
They'll say, you know, the Jews can rebuild the temple and all this stuff.
Well, the preters have to downplay that.
As they know, the temple's already been destroyed.
There's never going to be a rebuilt temple.
So you have these two competing ideas of how to treat the is modern
Israelis. It's interesting, used terminology.
And I forgot there's so much lingo in full preterism for meaning of terms.
So what does futurism mean to our audience who's not familiar with
preterism or futurism?
Well, futurism, I don't necessarily like to weigh preterist use it,
but it basically just believes that, you know, all these things we're talking
about Jesus coming in the future.
So anybody believes that it's a futurist according to preterist.
Then it can just be sometimes it's dispensational.
So there's another term.
Obviously, I want to get away from terminology.
I know it bogs people down, but I mean, if we're talking about football,
when you start talking about a touchdown, if you talk about base runs,
you're that makes no sense to people who know anything about football.
So we definitely need to have some knowledge of some of the terminology.
And the book is the book lays it out, you know, just one sentence
description of the terminology.
So how about that?
How about that?
So yeah, absolutely.
I would say for those watching, like he said, the futurists believe
something yet future.
But if you take a deep dive into that, a lot of preterist are now
calling other preterist futurists, because this is so funny how splinter
sex veer off.
Oh, you think there's an ongoing apostolic age or you think there's
an ongoing salvation or you think there's an ongoing sin?
Preterist now flex on other preterist to say, I'm more preterist than you are.
You're still believing in the narrative.
I'm Israel only now.
I have escaped the story.
It's about the genetic descendants of Abraham.
You know, and like there's so many different.
If you will, sex of this movement of preterism that have happened to come to
be, I think a book could be written in depth, breaking these things down.
And this is just the start.
So anyone who really wants to look at this, you're encouraging them
to maybe take a deep dive and write their own book.
Yeah.
And really, if we if we just separate ourselves for a moment, forget that
it's religion, it's ideologies, whether it's about politics or religion.
They always have sex.
They always have different versions.
I mean, you have you have liberal Democrats.
You have leftist Democrats.
You have moderate Republicans.
You know, you have radical Republicans.
So it's all it's just ideology and you have the preterist calling each other.
You're a hyper.
You're you're a heretic.
No, you're a heretic.
No, you're a futurist.
And he's going on and on.
It gets ridiculous.
So yeah.
Well, I like you said, for example, Ronald Reagan was a Christian who
probably thought the end was coming.
And so do many Christians, George W.
Bush, et cetera, et cetera.
What if they were a preterist and you give examples in this book of a
historical movement in the 1800s that took preterism, if you will, to the bank?
And what happens is, and for everyone to know, there's a place where Jesus is
kind of questioned by the Pharisees and the Sadducees are right there and
they're trying to trick them.
All right.
So this is woman and she has said, you know, her husband has seven brothers and
like they die and they go into the resurrection or they don't say they die.
But in the resurrection, who will she be married to?
And Jesus says neither there will be neither given or taken to marriage, blah,
blah, blah in the resurrection.
So he finds a way out of this scenario that the Jews are trying to catch him in.
Well, full preterist believe that the age to come or the end of the world
already happened.
In fact, they believe the resurrection already happened.
So how do you live your life?
Having marriage in the resurrection or post resurrection time, that group in
the 1800s saw the logical conclusion.
Hey, look, we all should just kind of have a polyamorous movement here and
enjoy each other.
What was the name of that group?
Oh, Anita community.
They're up in upper state New York.
Matter of fact, they got most of their money from civilware.
They created civilware.
So a lot of times you might have Anita spoons and pork chuck.
Well, that came from that community.
And they, like you said, they were having sex with each other.
Nobody was allowed to marry anybody, but the men would pass around the women to
each other and in just basically have sex with each other.
And again, logic, people like to say, I'm being logical.
Logic, all logic is is a rational way of saying something.
It doesn't mean it's right or wrong.
It's just a rational way.
It seems to make sense.
That's what logic is.
And so they use their preters logic and said, well, we should start a community
where nobody marries each other, because that's what the Bible says in the
resurrection.
If I believe I'm in the resurrection, then don't get married.
It was logical.
That's so interesting, man.
I really think that's just amazing how they took that conclusion and really
practiced it.
At least they were really taken it serious.
Unlike the people you start seeing today, like, well, the resurrection is
metaphor, it's something else.
And so they were trying to be consistent on the way that the church has always
understood resurrection to be.
And at least they were saying, well, if it's a literal resurrection, I don't
know, how did they take that?
That's a good question to ask.
They obviously did literally take it as the fact that they were in the resurrection
and they shouldn't be having marriages anymore.
So it's consistent.
We have some prejudice now today, even, that we'll talk about how their sins
all forgiven and we're no longer sinners and nobody has, you know, it's wrong
at all.
So they don't like to be called sinners.
They think anything they do is not condemnable.
So they do whatever they want.
You talked about Ward Finley's view of heaven now, which was interesting.
I know he doesn't believe in baptism today.
Like, you know, he's got a lot of, like, there's no need to do any type of
sacramental act or anything like that, right, to be part of covenant with God.
Now, he's a covenant guy.
He's a big covenant creations guy as well.
In some sense, he has a covenant creation view of Genesis and whatnot.
You go in and touch on all these.
I think an exhaustive measure should be taken on books in the future, really
delving into what these each are trying to say without trying to argue for the position.
Like, if I want to know covenant creation, I could pull out beyond creation science
to read the book, but it's a proposition trying to like prove it true.
Whereas you can do like a drive by and say, here's what he's really trying to say.
And here's what the church has been saying.
And most interpreters have been saying for a long time.
Can you see why they change that because of preterism in that interesting?
You know what I mean?
Right. I try to what I try to do in the book is just open a door.
Here's the door. Open up, look inside there.
See what you see in there.
And if you want to walk through it and more deep dive, you do it.
I'm not going to write an 800 page book. Who reads 800 page books?
I don't. So sometimes.
But I don't like reading that big book.
So yeah, I can be.
I can be when I need to for this for this show.
It makes it interesting.
But I tell you, man, you what happened that got you out of it?
What was it that I'm sure wasn't one thing, probably.
But well, if you talk to preterist, I got out of it because I just wanted attention,
which I'm not getting any more attention.
So I got more attention.
I've probably been better if I you went to all the conferences and spoke there
and became, you know, the preterist guy, like, but I didn't.
You know, matter of fact, this book, really, when I started writing it,
I almost quit writing that set in the book because it just doesn't interest me anymore.
So going back, he said, what got me out of it?
It was the fact that I realized that I can't claim to be Christian.
It's sort of like a Mormon or Jehovah's Witness who borrows Christian phrases,
but they can't really claim their Christian historically.
It's sort of like somebody who in America loves communism
and they're talking out communists and blah, blah, blah.
Well, you really can't historically claim you're an American
then because you don't even uphold American ideas.
Right.
So just as the community of a Christian, I couldn't claim to be a Christian.
Now, people say, well, you've got to run back to Catholicism.
Well, I was never a Catholic any else.
So how am I going to run back to it?
So what got me out of his skin is realizing that I can't honestly
say I'm a Christian and a preterist at the same time.
Well, are you saying that people weren't saved?
I'm not saying that's not my place.
I have no idea what God wants to do.
If there even is a God, we'll talk about that at some point.
But if there was a God, what he does with people by their beliefs,
that's up to him, not me.
So I don't know if you're going to hell with your preterist or not
a preterist or an atheist or not an atheist.
That's not my position and I never said that anywhere.
Interesting. You said before the show, you were talking about the idea
that their whole point is all of these religious systems are trying to find justice.
They're there's a seeking of justice and hoping and longing for
the wicked will get their due and the righteous will get paid.
Hey, good job. Here's your here's your payment.
You know what I mean?
Whether it's lions or Muslims or Christians or all the all
humanity always wants justice.
We want to make sure thing at the end, everything is righted somehow.
And what if it's not?
What if the criminal and the scumbag who defrauded your family
or killed your relatives doesn't get justice?
They just become worm food like anybody else.
You know, it's really frustrating.
So we have to we have to imagine that somehow there's going to be justice
in there, otherwise we go nuts.
That's a good I mean, that's a good point.
Like it's hard to let go of that for emotional reasons, of course.
Right.
I want to talk about something that you mentioned in your book on how to combat
this thing, because it's not really growing like that.
I think the most you see is people coming over from partial preterism
in some sense, probably from Kenneth Gentry, Gary DeMar types and people
who have been influenced with something and realize that something is about
the temple going on here in the in the Gospels.
But it I want anyone who might investigate this to kind of have an idea.
What would you say?
And I'll give my two cents after the best way to combat full
preterism in the guys who are full preterist.
Well, it depends whether you're coming from a Christian frame of mind or not.
So let's say, for example, if you're coming from a Christian frame of mind,
again, you stick with no matter what that here, look at this verse,
look at that verse, because you will probably lose there.
Not because their arguments solid, but because it looks like it's solid
when they say that.
So you need to stick with the fact that if you're a Christian
and you've been part of the Christian community for thousands of years,
preterism is completely something new.
It's not Christianity.
It's something new.
And now the problem with this is about, well, God can change his mind.
God can have further revelation.
Well, if this is the case, then this God has he could happen again in the future.
It could be more revelation.
Who knows what it would be.
And it's never ending.
So from a Christian point of view, you have to stick with the fact
that you're part of the Christian community and preterism is not
before you get to any proof text or anything that they're trying to get you to look at.
That's it. Yeah.
Are the police coming?
No, I just saw a head pop through the window there.
You're fine. OK.
No, you're good.
I was just going to say that makes a lot of sense, especially if you're part
of that community and you look in history to find out if there are any theologians
or scholars or church fathers or anything that believed in these things.
No, you can take pieces, like you say, and create a puzzle of your own to say,
well, I take John Owen and a little of Augustine and touch a little Justin
Martyr here, if you don't mind, and blend them up in a blender.
And you can come up with close to full preterism.
Yeah, all of them didn't believe their composite work would be what we call
futures for Christian, for that matter.
Right. Yeah.
Like you said, blended all up.
And the one thing they never agreed to are any of these church fathers
and, you know, people throughout history, was that the resurrection
had the final, if you will, had happened?
No, none. All of them were looking forward to something,
even if they believed it happened at death or if they believed it was going to
happen historically in some point in the future, there was still something yet
to wait for.
And yet full preterists are trying to find a way to kind of seal the deal behind
them. And they're stuck between a version of Christianity, whether it be
Church of Christ, most likely, because that was predominantly where this
thing really thrived between Christianity and full preterism and
knowing how to shut the door.
They get stuck in both worlds.
They don't really know how it fits.
And that's why I think the babies that were born out of this, so to speak,
are the rivers of Eden, Donald Hawk, McCrory, Schultz type initially,
trying to go, you know, if the end happened then, wouldn't that change
who the end was for?
Because if it's not meant for anyone post 70 AD, what would be the
intention of making the end happen then?
And I understand where they're coming from and why.
But I would say this is just me, the best method for coming at
and combating full preterism, coming from the critical scholar's point of
view, would be dissecting these books, realizing they're different authors,
potentially with different intentions and even different theological points.
Like I don't, you know, most Christians will rationalize James,
the book of James and Paul.
They try to make Paul and James on the same page.
James is saying that Abraham was justified by works plus faith.
Paul is saying it is by grace through faith, not of works.
They want it to say the same thing or somehow make that work.
And I recognize there's a problem.
Like they don't agree.
Yeah, so to Martin Luther, he wanted to get rid of James altogether.
Exactly.
Because he saw the problem there, even with the book of Revelation and stuff.
So I just say that to say, like, when you look at these time statements
and you see the synoptic gospels do point to a temple's destruction
and talk about these things that are coming, I don't look at Paul
and say Paul's imminent belief of the end requires he meant
exactly what the synoptic gospels saying in the gospels,
especially when you look at dating, Paul comes before the gospels,
according to the consensus of scholarship, the seven authentic Paulian letters.
So if Paul comes before it and the gospels come after
maybe driving home some of Paul's points, but they kind of want to
point the finger at something here.
I don't think Paul thought temple in his thinking,
just like I don't run to the Dead Sea Scrolls and say in the Dead Sea Scrolls,
oh, you know that they thought the end was coming
and some of these are carbon dated to 1st, 2nd century BC.
So you're going to tell me 100 or 200 years before 70 AD.
They were thinking 70 AD.
They're Jews.
They thought the end was coming soon.
They talk about the armies of light and darkness and battle and Armageddon.
They talk about all of that, except their enemy was Rome, by the way,
for anyone who doesn't know.
So now you're like, OK, hmm, did they think full preterism?
Were they anticipating the same exact end as the Gospel authors?
No one should draw those conclusions.
So I think critically looking at this stuff
without the inerrant infallibility glasses of Christianity,
you start to realize, OK, hold on, I can't just conclude
because it talks about near in Paul, near in Matthew, near here.
And then I could run to the Dead Sea Scrolls and it says near.
OK, well, they thought it was near 200 years ago.
How do you know Paul means what the Gospels means, what Dead Sea Scrolls means?
And so you can run around and easily see that it's like a ventriloquist dummy.
I can put what I could build a Frankenstein theory out of picking words out.
The only thing they want to say is, well, we have a cannon,
but they rely on the Christian cannon.
Like they trust the Christians to get that part right,
but couldn't get anything else right. So.
Yeah, that's what what it does is undermine the sovereignty.
If they believe if somebody believes God's sovereign and complete control,
which most Christians would say, yes, he is.
Well, somehow God didn't see this conundrum coming.
He couldn't relate to Christianity in such a simple way that in the year
two thousand twenty one, that now we're having a whole brand new concept
of how the end is going to work.
You know, well, yeah, Martin Luther also understood a different way of salvation.
Martin Luther didn't understand a different way of salvation.
He often referred to the ancient, you know, the ancient church and stuff.
But predators to often say that we can quickly up and everything
about Christianity start over, but then it's not Christianity.
It's something else. That's a good point.
Now, and you're right, Martin Luther does talk about it.
John Knox talks about, you know, the they they refer to the church as a tree.
Yeah, it's got rotten branches or it might be rotten even down to the stump,
but they're still the they wanted to reform an existing church,
not create a whole new one.
And I'm with you.
So they they should completely neglect that that approach.
I don't think that approach works.
They should call it something completely new, in my opinion, but.
That's just my opinion.
Well, just like I said, Jeho's witnesses or Mormons,
you have to keep that little that tinge of Christianity.
Otherwise, it's easy to dismiss.
So, you know, it's something different, but they have to keep it there.
You were reading out of chapter 10 in your book earlier.
And for my skeptic friends who are watching this show,
can you read that again that you had a that was a really well done statement?
I think, let's see if I can find that here real quick.
But yeah, basically, so they get to the end of the book.
That's close to the end of the chapter.
And I say, what if the carefully crafted prophetic stories, not only in Christianity,
but in any religion are merely the longing of the lonely, primate creatures
within an innate need to be more than more than a part of the ecosystem
called planet Earth, what if humans aren't a creation of some supreme being or beings?
But rather, some fluke or even seeded creature from some other planet long ago.
Now, again, I'm just questioning.
I'm not saying, well, oh, see, Ron doesn't believe in God.
He's an atheist. I'm not even saying that, but we have to consider it.
If you're going to be critical, think you have to consider the fact that,
like I said earlier, there is no justice.
It's just, you know, all the crap that happens now is is is never have
meted out with any kind of of justice.
And so what if, again, we're just primates?
Who knows how we got here?
But what if that's all we are?
And so we finagle over these words and whether God's coming or Jesus coming.
So you talked about what approach do we take to combat
preterism? We already talked about the Christian approach.
How about the non-Christian approach?
How do we approach that?
We could just say, well, all the Bible's wrong.
That's not good enough.
You have to go into more detail as to why it's gotten to this point of Christianity,
which I think is inevitable.
Preterism was inevitable the way the Bible's written.
It was going to happen at some point in time.
So that's actually a well, well said thing there, Roderick.
I really do appreciate that because I'm for anyone who might be watching this,
that is a Christian or that is within preterism.
Get trying to understand where we're coming from on this.
OK, we're not knocking you.
OK, I understand why people believe in what they want to believe.
That's fine. That's up to them.
However, you got to kind of picture someone who's going to poke at this book
to really test it if he says he's going to do something.
I know why you say he did because of faith.
You believe that, well, it had to happen for me.
I'm going to say, hold on, did this happen?
We have great examples of other people who've predicted things
and they didn't come to pass.
And I've even had scholars come on this show, Roderick, for example,
that like Ezekiel makes a claim.
I can't remember what chapter, but Dr. Joshua Bowen,
he's a he's a linguist,
expert, he knows Acadian and Sumerian and Hebrew.
He's like a really, really smart guy who knows these things.
And he was once Christian,
but he ended up leaving after researching for quite some time
and was able to escape that.
But he points out that Ezekiel predicts something and it doesn't happen.
In fact, a few chapters later in the same book,
he's somewhat correcting if I'm not mistaken, he's correcting.
Look, it was a failed prediction, that kind of thing.
Like he's literally admitting to making this mistake.
And this is in Ezekiel, Jeremiah with his 70 years,
Daniel with his 70 weeks of years.
And what happened is the can get kept getting kicked down the road
so that the author was saving his own face,
but he was creating a problem for the later generations.
So it's like, oh, well, you know, it's going to be happening in 490 years.
God just told me and everyone was like, oh, dude, you're you're cool.
And then 490 years pass, according to the narrative.
Here you are.
And the next guy's got to deal with this problem or else God's not keeping his word.
And so they got to make sure that it happens and full preterist try to do that.
Exactly. So any church or Christian denomination
who says, oh, preterism is bunk and just stay away from it.
It will come for you at some point.
You will have to deal with it.
You as a pastor, you as a layman, anybody,
you're going to have to deal with it at some point, maybe not in your lifetime.
But I'm saying you being the expanded you that that your denomination,
you know, at some point is going to have to deal with the fact that
it's now 2000 years after the fact almost that Jesus said he's coming soon.
So you have to explain all that to him.
And I know that again, we said at the opening of the show, people will do that
with, you know, years, a thousand days and blah, blah, blah.
And don't slack his coming and blah.
OK, that only works so far for a lot of people.
Well, you can't doubt Jesus.
OK, well, there's all kinds of things in the Bible that we doubt.
Like, I don't far as I know, we don't have women with administration and stuff.
We try to figure out whether the Virgin's by what if they're if they're
leg rots or stuff like what point we take some parts and some parts we don't take.
So right. It's important.
Do we understand all this?
And again, from the atheist point of view, it's just it's all bunk.
And I'm not even going to listen to any of it.
I'm not going to read about any kind of understanding you need to
because that's our culture is built on that, whether it's bunk or not.
It's still what our culture is built on.
So it's good to know that how it came about.
It is, I think that's a great way to look at it.
A lot of my friends that are atheists that watch this will want to read the book
because they'll get a nice they'll get a good example of what it looks like
for Christianity to really try a version of Christianity.
They're not historically Christian, but they're trying to still be in the vein
of Christianity and they're trying to say, look, we're going to be true.
They really do believe they're truest to the biblical text
because of, in my opinion, this is exactly what happens when Protestantism
lets the text value over the church tradition as well as the text.
So you're inevitably going to run into preterism at some point
if you're going to let the text reign supreme, because you're going to have
to listen to the words that are in that book for what they're saying.
If you're a Christian.
And when I did that, I saw that, well, he said it was going to happen.
Therefore it did happen.
And you can't say Jesus didn't do what he said he was going to do.
Now you have to describe why how it happened.
If you've already believed it, it did happen.
OK, now how did it happen?
You know, who who was the antichrist and when did the when did the great
the great tribulation happen?
All these things that you have already in your pocket there,
you got to now describe how it happened in the past.
So it's interesting.
Preterism does.
You actually talk about Ed Stevens and Don K.
Preston and other people that are I like to call them scholars.
I mean, in their field, yeah, yeah, in preterism.
So you have these scholars till this day that literally like debate
viciously one another and saying things about their IBV and their CBV.
So for those of you who don't know, what's IBV and CBV?
Well, immortal body at death and immortal body now type of thing.
So that's it's whether you are currently in heaven or get your transformed body.
Is it physical? Is it spiritual?
What is this that's got this all going on?
And we even have a concept of preterism.
The question is, preterism is why didn't why didn't the Christians see this?
The Christians in eighty seventy, the year that those
supposed to happen when you talk to a pressure when.
So we have person you mentioned, Ed Stevens, what he will say is
that there was a huge rapture that took away all the true Christians
from the face of the planet, leaving just the the I don't know what you can call
them, second ranked Christians, nominal Christians, people who didn't really,
really, really, really believe I have no idea what they're called.
But somehow they didn't understand what actually just happened.
So they spent another thousand years teaching false teaching about eschatology,
about the end. And here we come, enter people like Max King and Ed Stevens
to help sort all that out for us, which to me is a slap in the face
to the apostles and Jesus himself, because it's somehow they couldn't relate it.
But Ed Stevens can. I don't I mean, I'm not trying to attack them,
but it's just it's a ridiculous argument.
Yeah, he actually argues that silence after the destruction of the temples,
where it happened, we don't have any historical evidence.
It's like his evidence is the lack of evidence to make the case.
You know, so well, we don't know what happened in those 20 years,
but somehow we do just read your new testament.
We knew it was going to happen.
So since it we knew it was supposed to happen soon,
that's the window of opportunity to place it.
We just can't prove it.
And therefore, you know, I mean, of course, I'll probably try to.
But I mean, that's honestly what I heard him do in his lectures.
But see, Don K. Preston and others, they take a corporate body view
or spiritual covenantal view rather than being individuals.
Whereas Ed Stevens says, when you die, at that point,
you go to heaven and the judgment or something might happen.
I don't know if it's like that.
How he is lying along with historic Christianity. Yes.
Yeah, but he believes a literal rapture actually happened.
And does he he comes close to people like Rivers of Eden,
who took the view that it's all actual biological genetic descendants of Abraham only.
Have you seen Ed Stevens ever try to combat that in his view of the actual rapture?
Who was raptured?
Were they a mixed multitude of Israelite and non-Israelite?
I think he believes that, yes, from what I can see in the writings that I've had.
I mean, again, the book that you talk about was originally called Silence Demands of Verdict.
So and then he changed the name of it.
Once people pointed out, hey, wait a minute, let's like you said, that that's no evidence.
You're basically trying to build evidence from no evidence.
But the reason why Rivers of Eden, this guy is called the Israel only group.
So people who believe Preterism, they have two basically two premises that
that everything is fulfilled.
Everything you read in the Bible is fulfilled.
It's not going to go on.
It fulfilled the terminuses of AD 70 and audience relevance that it's only relevant to a certain audience.
If you take those two things and we talk about logic earlier,
and you apply logic to it, you have to say, well, wait a minute.
So if it's all over with and the audience was who, you know, Jesus said,
I only come to the house of Israel.
So it must have been only the actual true Jews, the true Israelites.
And so it was never the Gentiles, the so-called, you know, even it says mentioned Gentiles.
Those are just Jews living outside of Israel proper.
And so they're I mean, he's using good logic here based on his premises.
It doesn't mean it's true, but he's using good logic.
And that's how you get to Israel only.
Right. And then, you know, just like you pointed out the flaws with
with how Ed Stevens comes along and is making this huge statement of like,
well, secondary Christians or why did this thing keep going?
If it ended in a rapture at all as true church, why would anyone believe this after 70 AD?
If that happened, the same problem happens for the IO crowd.
So anyone who wants to take that head on, this is being critical, but also pointing out an obvious fact.
Why is it right there documented at the very earliest convenient time we have
of historical writings for Christians, non-Israelite pagan, pagan believers
are believing in a part of this church.
They have this cop out explanation.
Well, people believe in things all the time that aren't, you know, really meant for them to believe.
And it's like a weak lack of evidence argument.
For me, it's obvious Paul's spiritualizing text and applying them to the context
of people who weren't actual Israelites, calling them sons of Abraham by faith in Jesus.
And that's why it looks like they're actual sons of Abraham because he's using the same language.
He's just borrowing it and putting it on to the ethnic.
I don't think these are literal lost Jews or lost Israelites.
But I think it's interesting why they do that because.
They say 70s determinists, what's the point, right?
What's the point if it ends in 30 years, 40 years, Derek?
There's no point. It must be only for this purpose.
I understand that argument, but it's assuming Paul means the same things
as the synoptic gospels, and that's also assuming that all of the synoptic gospels,
including the gospel of John, mean the same thing and they don't.
That's my that's my argument.
When you start getting critical, you start realizing John, the latest gospel in the game is changing the game.
He sees the failure.
He sees the blunder.
Now, everything must be spiritual.
Now we got to stop being so real about literally something happening here, guys.
The kingdom is in you.
You are the kingdom, or they say he starts to change stuff to be in resurrection,
being spiritual rather than it being potentially a literal resurrection
that's supposed to happen of the saints and stuff.
There's changing of meaning, in my opinion.
Also, when you look at the end of John, like I mentioned earlier,
there was a rumor going around that John would never die.
He didn't say that he would die, guys.
Why is he arguing that?
Well, because he died, whoever this guy is died.
And he said he probably wasn't going to die and that some of the disciples or
someone was supposed to remain till he comes.
Right. And yet he didn't come.
So now we have to, well, he wasn't saying he wasn't going to die.
They're trying to fix a problem here.
And full Preterist are trying to fix a problem, too.
But to save face of the biblical canon and this
this, I guess, the words of Christ, if you will.
And we're looking at it going nice try.
Well, yeah, and we talked about the Israel only.
So if we're talking about Preterism only, Israel, at least in my opinion,
is a consistent conclusion of Preterism, or at least consistent next step.
We'll put it that way. Right.
But it still has problems, as you mentioned, because now anybody who's beyond
eighty seventy, like people now who are claiming to be Christian or even some kind
of morality, I call them functional atheists because you cannot technically
claim to be anything.
How to do with that story?
You're outside that story.
Why do you obey anything that has to do with Christianity?
Why do you even interact with anything with Christianity?
It's it's like a dead religion you found along.
It's like Zoroastrianism.
It's some degree.
Anybody who's trying to advocate Zoroastrism now is basically, you know,
that that religion is gone.
It's it's it's really got no advocates anymore.
So if Christianity really is just for the eighty seventy group and you're
still saying you're a Christian and reading the Bible and trying to function
as a Christian, you're inconsistent.
It makes no sense. It's a bygone idea.
I think that the I.O.
premise is starting at the end.
So if you wanted to use the logic and the arguments that the I.O.ers are using.
Israel only. Yeah.
And I sure for Israel only.
I see that again for your listeners.
I'm glad you correct in this, too, so people can understand.
They should go back.
They should go back to Daniel.
In fact, they should go back to Jeremiah.
They should go back and see how, according to their logic,
while Jews after Daniel's time shouldn't be practicing Judaism
and Jews after Jeremiah's prediction of the seventy years should really stop
believing in Yahweh because he claimed things were going to happen.
They kept changing the narrative.
They kept changing it to keep pushing it forward because, well, it didn't happen.
So now when you have a blunder after a blunder after a blunder,
why use Christianity as the tool when you can go back into the Old Testament,
Hebrew Bible and find the same problem?
So what I always think is an easy explanation is these religions evolve.
They don't just stay like they're not fundamentalists,
like the Iowars want to claim the whole text is.
There's an ever evolution taking place in the actual books.
And if you have the eyes to see that close up and be critical,
you'll realize, OK, this didn't happen.
No wonder. That's an admission
that there's no supreme being in control of these books to some degree.
Right. So it's very human.
You can't do that.
Can't do it to a Christian.
But to anyone who's an Iowar, who's not a believer,
which a lot of are practicing atheist and claim to not necessarily believe
the God of the Bible, they might be deist or deist in some sense,
but they don't believe like the modern A.I.O. guys, the ancient Israel only guys.
They'd have to change that name a little.
I guess there's been dispute between the Iowars and the A.I.O.ers about that.
I don't know.
But I've been engaging with those guys in the past.
And you kind of run in the same problem.
They act like this is a fairy tale.
Their conclusion now, because of Myth, Vision, Podcast and me being involved
in engaging with them, they've come to this conclusion, Roderick.
I don't know if you've been in the circle yet and seen any of this.
This is really important.
They drew the conclusion that all of Paul's letters, all of the pastoral
epistles, the book of Revelation, the Gospels, everything in the New Testament
is a literal fictional story, a singular, not stories.
These books, technically all 27 of them, they could almost argue were written
by one guy or a group of people that are sequentially borrowing and literally
copying this one thing, if you have this one story.
They act like it's one story.
Paul and the Gospels and the Pastorals and Revelation, they've taken this approach
of complete fiction because I've called them out on the idea that these there are lost,
scattered, distinguishable, ethnically distinct Israelites in a diaspora separate from Jews.
So like Timothy Matthews, he's the older version somewhat of the IO with the
Rivers of Eden kind of crowd.
He believes these are Jews.
The IO crowd that I'm talking about that I've been engaging, they believe they're
northern Israelites that were scattered and somehow remained for 800 years
and they eventually stopped borrowing the literal.
Well, yeah, there was literal actual northern Israelites scattered as a diaspora separate
from the Jews because the two houses are separate.
There's not Jew and then Israel as one diaspora.
They're two separate diasporas.
They have a historical blunder.
They can't explain.
There is no evidence for anything other than diaspora Jews.
In your book, you say this, you say Jew, non-Jew.
Right there, IO would have a bone to pick with you.
Now, hold on, hold on.
You got Jew, non-Jew, and they have Israel and Israel is a separate crowd.
And that's what they do, man.
Well, when you get to the New Testament, you see that Jesus and apostles didn't make that
distinction.
It's basically Jew and Gentile.
They never really, well, you got the house of Israel over here and you got the Jews over.
They didn't make that distinction so clearly.
It's just Jew and Gentile.
Right.
What I think is also interesting, we're talking about Christianity, but talk about Judaism,
for example.
So here you have, they believe their temple was, you know, the foot, the throne of God,
his footrest, and basically on earth.
Here he is on earth.
They had no idea that it was going to be complete.
He just wiped off the face of the earth.
And so when that happened, they had to go, well, what do we do now?
Because that was our whole idea here of how God operates.
So now they came with the whole synagogue concept.
You know, it'd be interesting to dive more into how Jews try to reconcile the fact that
their God is no longer basically with them, but they also had to spiritualize it.
You know, there's, there comes a time when all, you won't worship me in this place and
that place, but you worship me in spirit.
Even though it's not in their Bible, they probably had to have to advocate that too.
Well, that's a good question.
I'd like to get a scholar on to talk about, because I know that Judaism prior to the
temple and Judaism post-temple, there had to be a change.
Even diaspora Judaism probably changed in light of the fact that the temple's destruction took
place, but I'd like to ask an expert that, because that is interesting.
I always told the full preterist this, and this is interesting.
Full preterism is temple.
Like you got to think 70 AD.
You cannot think outside of Jerusalem's temple.
So when the IO guys came, being as consistent as they could to try and understand this,
I always say to them, like, suppose Paul's audience are who you think they are.
What's the point?
What's he saving them from?
They're not going to go to the temple.
In 30 years, who cares, you know?
Yeah, but they're not even going to the temple.
These are uncircumcised, supposedly Jews, depending on who you talk to, or uncircumcised
Israelites.
They're out in the diaspora out there.
What are you saving them from, the judgment of the temple's destruction?
They're not going to the temple.
They don't care.
So what's he saving them from?
And there's never a clear answer to that question that makes good sense.
It makes me think of Jesus when he was talking to the Samaritan woman,
who said, basically, we worship on this mountain, whereas you Jews,
but they both were Semites, if you want to call it that.
But they were worshiping not even ever in the temple.
They were always up on the mountain worshiping, and the Jews were worshiping in the temple.
So it's a completely different culture.
But Jesus still considered them part of Abraham's children, if you want to call it that.
That's definitely in the Gospel of John.
What gets weird is Matthew.
Right.
Because Matthew says, do not go to the Gentiles, do not go in the way of the Gentiles,
and do not enter any city of the Samaritans, rather go to the lost sheep of the House of
Israel.
And this is what I pointed out in the recent discussion with the Jason, the cost,
and these other guys.
I said, look, dude, the bottom line is in Matthew,
he's only concerned initially with Jews.
Who are the lost sheep of the House of Israel?
Jews, not Gentiles, not Samaritans.
John and Luke do something different.
They're like, hey, you Samaritans, half Jews, if you will.
You guys are in it.
Come on, come on in.
Right.
Then you have Paul and Peter arguing over who's acceptable into the House of the
Lord, the community of saints.
And that's an ax.
And an ax.
I think that's fictional, of course.
I think the Gospels are very fictional.
I think acts is very fictional, but I do think there's a historical narrative there
to some degree, understanding the rife in the early church
in my opinion.
And this is just from critical scholarship coming in,
like trying to explain, they're trying to make Peter and Paul look the same.
Peter and Paul were probably not on the same page,
but they make Peter and Paul somehow come together in a way like,
all right, he calls them out about hanging out with the Gentiles,
but they make up.
It's okay.
They're, they're on the same team.
Paul doesn't sound that way in Galatians.
Like Paul's actual letters do not sound very nice.
He's, he's defending himself in the Galatian church.
So all of that's fiction, according to the modern Iowers, all of it,
including like 1 Corinthians 9, where he's arguing over money
and who's going to donate and whatnot.
Why, why would that be fiction?
What would be the point of writing that, you know,
how fictional is it that he's trying to argue
why the donations need to come to him in Barnabas
so he can give it to the church of Jerusalem
and not just the other super apostles that he's completely competing with,
in my opinion, but we're rabbit-chilling off predatorism.
So I really want to see more of this written.
Are you planning on writing more on predatorism at some point?
Well, again, in the book, I say that it hardly almost didn't write it
because it just, at this point, it's becoming disinteresting to me
because it's, it's all convoluted.
Like you say, I mean, anybody listening is like,
oh, I don't want to get involved in any of that, maybe.
Right.
However, it's important.
So I may write another one after predatorism.
What would happen, what has happened?
It's splintered so badly.
Most predators will say, well, so did Protestantism and it's fine.
It's splintered to 30,000 denominations.
Okay.
Okay.
Well, you're doing, you're doing it at hyper speeds here.
Predatorism took, I mean, Protestant took, what,
thousands, at least a thousand years or 500 years
to splinter as badly as you're doing in 20 years.
So that's true.
Yeah.
I might write another one basically on how this is going,
but I'm not certain if I have my finger on the pulse of some of the newer ones
because it's just frustrating like you do.
Maybe you should write the next one after predators.
You know, I've been told you to just to go into the different depths at which these
movements go, but I'll tell you what did irk me about this.
I'm an admin of predator's perspectives.
Year, year and a half ago, the predatorists were wanting the I.O.
predatorist out.
Yeah, yeah.
It didn't have anything to do with them.
I defended the I.O. guys.
I was like, listen, you guys can't stand around saying Ed Stevens calling Don Preston
anathema and that you're cursed, you're going to go to hell or whatever vice versa.
And then tell me that I.O.ers can't be allowed in this discussion.
You're already calling each other the worst names under the sun.
What's wrong with bringing another group in that already disagrees with both of you guys?
So bring them in.
Well, they're not even believers.
Some of them are, but regardless, they're predatorist and it's a predator's perspective.
I got them into the room and it just went real down south from there,
but it just shows how everyone is their own pope.
Everyone interprets it their own way.
It's not even like all the mini-popes when I was a predatorist and I got so much trouble
calling to all these people, mini-popes.
It's true.
I mean, I don't know why they would have a problem with that because it's a fact.
If you don't think their way, you don't have the Holy Spirit,
but Christians do that all the time too.
Like our understanding is true because the Holy Spirit guided us.
But the irony early in the movement of predatorism, first of all,
they used to use this tagline.
They say it's a radical paradigm shift.
Okay.
If something's radically being paradigm, when a paradigm is going to be shifted,
it's not what it was before.
It's something new.
But they quit using that phrase when I pointed it out because obviously, again,
that undermines what they're saying, but you can't sit there and say,
well, Christians want to not listen to us and they will condemn us to hell.
And then when you get another group of predators who don't think exactly the way you do,
you do the same thing to them.
It's inconsistent because you can only go so far with predators.
And they all individually get to decide how far you can go.
So if you go too far, then you're hyper, hyper, hyper, hyper, hyper predators, whatever.
Yeah, hyper, hyper would be IO for them, these guys.
And Ed Stevens version is what was seen in Rivers of Eden.
I've talked to him before a couple of times on the phone.
He's not a bad guy.
A lot of these guys are really cool people,
but they just drew these strange conclusions and they die on those hills now,
and they don't keep going.
That's what got me is I looked at these positions,
but I kept moving as I continued to try and research,
not try to bury myself into a position.
I like the scientific method, Roderick.
I like to test whatever it is.
Like I was a mythicist who thought maybe Jesus didn't even exist at all.
As I tested this theory, I became more agnostic on that question
because it's not unreasonable to think there was a historical Jesus
who actually existed that this whole thing is being written about.
However, there are scholars like Dr. Robert M. Price, Dr. Richard Carrier,
and others that I entertain and talk to who have really good reasons to doubt the historicity.
At the very least, you could talk to the people who believe in a historical Jesus
and find out from them how much is fictional about Jesus.
So you start going, well, dang, you can't trust that.
You can't trust that.
After a while, you start wondering, is this a real guy?
Do you realize that a mission, though, how amazing that is?
That would make Christianity probably one of the biggest conspiracies in history.
And we sit here and we go, are there a conspiracy in that?
But yet, if all of Christianity is just a giant conspiracy,
basically, many of our cultures, our whole entire foundation is built on this conspiracy.
It's amazing.
And yet, we get worried when we have smaller conspiracies in politics like that.
But yet, we've had a 2,000-year-longer conspiracy that we built everything on.
If it's true.
That's a great point, because if Richard Kerry and Amirite that it started out,
that Jesus was really a celestial angelic figure, like the Angel of the Lord.
And they believed in the Angel of the Lord.
And then later on, authors really historicize, if you will,
or you hemorrhize the Angel of the Lord to making it a man on Earth.
The Christian Church is built off of this as a conspiracy from really early on,
like in the second century, we have them like dying on the hill.
No, he existed.
And you had groups that were strangely believing in weird things about him,
like the Gnostics and stuff, the Doesotist and others that are like, well, he was like...
Bring the dead kid alive and everything about that, yeah.
Well, yeah, those are the those are the infancy Gospels and stuff.
But like, the idea that Jesus was like a phantom and he would, he could change his,
his form like complete solid or be complete ghost.
Your arm could go right through him at certain times, or he'd be like still, if you touch.
Yeah, when you appear to the road of maya stuff with the Gospels, that that thing.
Yeah, exactly.
So it's just so much interesting stuff, man, to think about.
What would you like to say to anyone who's going to consider looking into this book and reading it?
What would you like to tell them?
Well, to the Preterist, who's going to read this book or not read this book or look at this.
So first of all, it's not a debate book.
It's not a reputation book.
I don't have a silver bullet that I'm saying it's basically a matter of fact.
Here's the history of Preterism.
Here's the people were involved.
Actually, when I wrote all the book and I put actual people's names in there,
I was thinking, is that a good idea?
I tried to do it in a way where it was just based basically direct and forward.
No, I don't intend any sland or anything like that.
I just want to talk about the true positions.
So anyhow, if you're a Preterist, it's a book that you should read because it helps you understand
how you got here.
Oh, I don't care.
I don't know anything about Ed Stevens.
Whenever I hear a Preterist say, I don't care.
I'm a Preterist.
I just read the Bible and I became a Preterist.
OK, well, it's like somebody who becomes a Communist and doesn't know anything about
Communism, how it originates.
You still should read about it, right?
Now, to the Christian, who's not a Preterist and wants to read this.
Again, it's inevitably, this is coming to you at some point,
not to you directly, at least to your lineage.
It's good to know this stuff.
Well, I'm not going to read it until my pastor says I can read it.
Well, your pastor, again, has a reason why he doesn't want you to know anything about all this
stuff. He needs to keep this going on.
I'm not saying he's a bad guy, right?
But he needs to keep this frame that going on that he has going on here with this
whole where he can spiritualize any passage he wants and you're going to buy it.
You need to read this book because you need to understand how it works.
And I want you to argue with your pastor, maybe get him to read it too.
Maybe throw the whole thing away, maybe whatever.
But you should read it to the atheist that wants to read this book.
You should read it because, again, Christianity has impacted cultures all around the world,
whether it's America or South America or Russia.
You need to understand the end game to Christianity.
And this is the end game.
This is where it goes eventually, whether we're on a mid or not.
So I think it's a good book for everybody to read.
And like you said, it's a short read.
I don't want any of my books to be longer than two hour, two hour listening.
So it was really enjoyable.
I really recommend it.
I do.
I'll repeat the same words, you know, that what you just said is powerful and important.
Anyone who's considering wanting to know, like you really want to know if you're an atheist,
a real good way to kind of jab at Christianity is this supposed coming.
And it's still like these date setters and stuff that are going on around here that are creating fear
for the Christian or the one who might be a believer who thinks these texts are holy.
This is a good place to realize and don't buy that it's about to happen stuff.
Don't let that fear crawl under your skin.
But the atheist who's looking at Christianity wanting a good way in and saying,
Hey, here's a great way to show an issue.
He claimed things were going to happen.
Did they happen?
Well, I do think those passages that we talked about earlier, a day is as a thousand years
and a thousand years is as a day, are there intentionally to try and fix a problem.
And we can go into why I think the pastoral pistols are later and they're there to kind of say,
look, we know there's scoffers and mockers are going to come in the last days.
They're mocking and saying, when is the coming coming?
You know, is he delayed?
Has he held off?
Is he postponing?
What not?
Don't worry.
More people will get saved by this.
Second Peter says, don't worry.
At least he has long suffering.
He he's going to come though.
Don't worry.
Okay.
That's that's saving face because it never happened in my opinion.
Could be wrong.
But I just have a hard time believing this is when you read this book.
I do want to warn people when you read this book,
especially as a Christian, when you read this book and let's say you're reading it and you
understand it all and you're like, okay, I agree with what he's saying here.
It's all it might do something to your faith.
I want to warn you about that.
You might say, well, maybe I don't want to go to church anymore.
I'm not saying it's going to ruin your faith.
It's just going to change it because you're going to feel like this conspiracy that we
talked about has been played on you for all this time.
So how does that fit in?
What are my morals now?
What why do I do what I do?
What makes me a good person?
What do I do as a good person?
Just go into the soup.
What do I do?
And so it's going to change your entire life in that respect possibly.
And you need to be ready for that.
I don't want you to become a hateful, bitter person.
That's not the point of the book.
I want you to figure out, I guarantee you,
like you said, you admit you're you're atheistic.
Is that right?
Yes.
So you have to have some kind of moral code that you apply to and some something you can
actually describe and declare to people.
And they understand that Derek's going to do this and Derek's going to do that.
You still need some kind of moral code.
Otherwise, you're going to be off the rails.
So I do believe in the golden rule.
I mean, I'm a big fan of the golden rule.
You know, I think that's inherent.
It's inherent in us to try and treat others the way we would like to be treated to try.
I'm going to say we're all going to live up to all these perfections.
No, man, it's what evidence shows we can't always do that.
But but no, yeah, I don't I don't want anyone to go off the deep end.
But I think it is worthy of the research.
You may not think so.
But guys, I can go on YouTube type and into the world.
And there are Christian videos that millions of views.
It shocks me.
But you write an informative or do an informative show on showing really what the end of the
world was about apocalyptic stuff, teachings.
I mean, John Jay Collins, for example, Professor John Jay Collins, he's like one of the most
no notable scholars in the field of apocalypticism and second type of literature and things like this.
And he might get like a couple thousand views on his videos on YouTube.
Millions of views on some, you know, hype, silver tongue Christian speaking about this.
I had I had a dream.
Donald Trump and the end and the eagle flew and like and the prophetic word was upon me
and like and you're you're believing in this stuff.
And it just we love sensational weather.
Like, for example, I've written nine different books.
This is my only religious book, basically.
But I've written nine books, but they don't get as much traction as, say,
a an erotica novel of romance.
You know, that's just that's just a matter of fact.
We as humans, we we're trying to escape from reality to some degree.
That's the reason we play video games.
That's the reason we do all these things.
We want to escape from sometimes the reality of, wow, this life sucks to some degree sometimes.
So sometimes, yeah.
So you're going to decide to make your life better, despite all that.
Well, Roderick, I got to say applause to you, man, because you wrote it really well.
I could tell there's educated.
You're very educated in this.
And I'm listening to it.
I could tell with the word you were using and how you were saying it,
you really articulate preterism.
You understand what it is you could.
And I could tell you could have gone into the rabbit trails of delving and showing
and breaking apart and giving you examples and all of that.
But this is an airplane view for anyone who wants to see when preterism hit planet Earth,
if you will.
And like where it's kind of heading, you can kind of tell historically speaking,
people who take the Bible seriously, if they draw conclusions by themselves about preterism,
you just never know where stuff might end up.
We got Heaven's Gate Colts and stuff, crazy Colts that start developing out of this.
You never know what could come of this.
Well, we mentioned in the book, there's a guy named Charles Geralt.
I think it's had some like Charles Geralt.
I think his name is, get out, get out.
That's him, sorry.
Charles Geralt, back in the 1800s, who actually assassinated one of the U.S. presidents
because he believed preterism was so true.
And he said, he thought after a word, after a while, he wrote in his,
is what the reason why he did it, why he killed him is he thought it would give
more exposure to his book, which he called The Truth, which is a book about preterism.
So it does have impact already, you know, back up.
But have you ever heard that?
I never heard that until I read him.
It's like, wow.
So preterism isn't just this little sideline.
Again, it will come up and come up and come up because
the Bible has this story that we believe that it's going to happen at any moment.
And it's going to affect people as they go on.
Yeah, you, I didn't see you go into too much detail of historical,
like historical theologians, if you will, where it might have started.
But I think you mentioned Todd Dennis.
I think it was, or one of the guys who actually goes and tries to find historically
like where preterist universalism starts to come on the scene.
Like guys who were like, you know what?
The fulfillment seems like it was happening.
And this is like 18 early 1800s.
1800s, I'd say is the basic starting point of most,
what we call modern preterism, definitely was James Stewart Russell,
who wrote the Parisia or Perusia book.
He outlines it most.
But before that, all you could do, like you said,
piece it together from here and there.
But here's a quote by Constantine or whatever, blah, blah, blah.
Back on 360 AD.
Okay.
But that's not really, it's just one quote.
Yeah.
So definitely, man.
Thank you so much, guys.
Get a book about preterism because, man, if it's the very least,
it'll take two hours of your time.
You'll better understand what I'm talking about when I bring this up
in any of my scholar, you know, interviews, things that I talk about.
I highly recommend you get it because you don't have to get too lost in the weeds,
which you're probably not interested in and I don't blame you.
But this right here will give you a little bit of what happened to me
prior to my leaving Christianity, why I ended up going this route
and getting excommunicated from the Reformed Presbyterian PCA Church.
One of the reasons I stopped going to church,
which caused me to get excommunicated.
But also why I was, if you will, I was not punished,
but the five counselors, if you will, at the church,
the men that were in charge that wanted to put me on trial,
so to speak, about preterism to pretty much convince me to get rid of this heresy,
why I ended up willing to stand up to that and literally not change my view,
but willing to challenge them at being a full preterist
and stop coming because of that judgment.
So that pastor likes to still, to this day,
act like your absence is the reason we excommunicated you.
Sure, but do you understand also why I was absent?
Get me sitting in front of five guys who know me,
that I think that Jesus came back already and you guys preach every Sunday.
He's coming.
You got to understand why I didn't want to keep going to that church.
Eventually, inevitably, I was going to be excommunicated.
I don't know if you could just walk away from being a member of the PCA like that
without being excommunicated.
I don't know.
So I end up preterism and check it out and give me your thoughts about it.
So and let me know what you think of his book.
And if you would, if you read the book,
watch it on audible, listen to it on it or read it,
leave him a review on Amazon and tell us what you think,
critical or not, any review at all.
It helps him out.
Make fun of my shirt if you want.
That's fine, too.
Whatever, whatever works.
You write that down.
Thank you, man, so much.
Thank you.
And let me know what you guys think of the show.
Love you guys and don't forget, we are MythVision.
I have hundreds of videos on the Patreon, become a patron,
and get early access to everything I ever launched.
Join the Twitter.
I've got a Discord chat room.
You guys can help grow the community.
One-time PayPal or Cash App if you want to help us out with a donation.
And join our Facebook groups, man.
Let's make this thing happen.
