We are MythVision. Welcome back to MythVision Podcast. I'm your host, Derek Lambert. Today, I have someone who is very knowledgeable on the cult of Scientology.
Yes, I said it. It is what it is. And that is Tony Ortega. He's back with us today. There is some stuff going on. There's always stuff going on with Scientology.
But right now, there's court situation going on. Can you tell us when, where, how, and why? What's going on in the situation with Scientology at this current state?
So there are a number of different lawsuits and prosecutions that we're looking at that involve Scientology in some way or another.
This week, the big news was that Judge Charlene Olmeido has set a trial date for Danny Masterson's rape trial of August 29. So August 29, 2022.
She had initially scheduled it for November. Then they got moved to February. But those were kind of placeholders. This one, I think it's firm. I think people can plan that late August.
You want to be around watching what's going on in Los Angeles. So that's a big deal. You know, Danny is represented by Tom Mesrow, who was the attorney for Michael Jackson.
And, you know, best, best defense money can buy. And then we found out this week that his defense team is going to grow. That's the other big news this week was that since Danny was charged in June, 2020, he's had two attorneys representing him in court.
Tom Mesrow and a woman named Sharon Applebaum. And they have shared the duties in court through various preliminary matters. There was a big preliminary hearing in May lasted several days. Big deal.
The judge at the end of those four days ruled that there was sufficient evidence to have a trial. And that's where we are now.
But then Danny's side then filed a special motion to dismiss that's called a 995. And the reason it's special is in a 995 hearing, they're basically going to argue that not enough evidence was actually presented at the preliminary hearing to justify a trial.
So it's basically a sort of a, you know, a mini appeal of what Judge Olmeido did in May. That was supposed to happen this week. But then Danny's two attorneys came into court and said, Well, judge, we're growing our legal team by two, we need more time for the new attorneys to come on board.
So that judge, not Olmeido, Judge Ronald Cohen, granted them a delay till February 8. But I did get the papers on what they were going to argue on that hearing. And what's really interesting, I mean, on the one hand, they're just calling the women liars like they did in May.
And it's all the same to sort of like, you know, they're embellishing their coordinating, you know, their stories don't hold up the same stuff they argued in May that didn't didn't wash with Judge Olmeido. They're arguing all over again for this new judge.
But the other thing that's I thought really interesting is that if you remember we I think we talked about this before Derek, what surprised me about the preliminary hearing was how much Scientology was in it.
I mean, that's always been the big question with this case is Danny grew up in Scientology, the three women were Scientologists when they alleged they were raped. And the women are all saying that they would have come forward sooner, but they fear retaliation from the church Scientology.
So the question was always how much of that is going to get into the actual criminal court. And in May, there was quite a lot and even Tom Mesrow himself brought in a Scientology book as to cross examine one of the women.
I mean, Scientology was all through that thing. It was kind of amazing.
And, and of course, in a strata drive Scientology crazy, David was cabbage crazy, because they're not actually a party, they can't stand up and object and, you know, they can't they're not really in the trial, but they're being talked about the whole time.
So anyway, for this 995 hearing, Danny side is now saying that this was inappropriate, and the judge should not have let in all the Scientology, and they're claiming that the prosecution is biased against the church of Scientology.
Well, the prosecutor answered said, look, you're the ones that mentioned Scientology on every other page of Danny's briefs. And it was Mesrow who brought in the book in the preliminary hearing to make these, you know, to cross examine these women.
So I have a feeling that Judge Cohen is not going to be too impressed by that. But this does show you down the line.
When there are appeals and if Danny is convicted and sent to prison, you can already kind of see where the appellate strategy is going to be. They're probably going to cry and whine that the court looked into the Scientology.
And Judge Olmeido was very explicit. She said, listen, we're going to look at Scientology policies that help explain why these women didn't come forward soon enough.
But she was adamant we're not getting into the belief of Scientology. We're not. We're not just digging into Scientology to dig into Scientology.
And she admonished prosecutor Mueller a few times about staying within that narrow focus.
So I think she's been pretty responsible. But you can see already that that's where Danny's appeal, any appeals he makes are going to go down that road.
And they're going to hope to find an appellate court that doesn't know anything about Scientology and may wonder to themselves, yeah, why would that be an issue?
And we definitely saw that the week before. The other recent court thing I wanted to tell you about is that Danny and the church Scientology are also being sued civilly by these women.
Not for the rapes, but for the harassment they say they've been through since they came forward to the LAPD in 2016.
Wow.
They alleged that they've been surveilled and hacked and the two of their pets have been poisoned.
Three pets, two pets poisoned, one pit kicked and killed.
They all of that just as part of a harassment campaign they've been going through.
And that but that lawsuit is kind of hung up on a technicality about contracts.
These people signed while they were Scientologists.
They appealed that the California Supreme Court agreed to give them a special review and appeal when there normally wouldn't be one.
And that they signed an appellate court beneath them to listen to that.
That took place last week. There was an actual online sort of zoom appeal oral arguments and we got to see the two sides argue to these judges.
And I got to tell you, first of all, I think the judges were pretty sharp.
They did notice some things about Scientology arbitration that are questionable and which do suggest that possibly the women will win this appeal.
There's a particular Scientology official called the IJC, International Justice Chief.
And he is improperly running that thing and they raised questions about that.
I think these judges are onto that.
But having said that, some of them seemed really clueless about Scientology.
I mean, one of the one of the justices was saying, well, if the arbitration is going on and decided to have a Scientology prayer, you know, how is that going to affect things?
And I can tell you a lot of us watching were like Scientology prayer.
This guy doesn't know the first thing about Scientology.
And apparently, from other things he said, this justice clearly thought that Scientology was simply some offshoot of Christianity, which is as far from the truth as you can imagine.
So I think, though, these justices can see how unfair Scientology's arbitration is.
And I think there could be a chance for a ruling that overturns that thing that was derailing the lawsuit.
But having seen that, I sort of thought to myself, you know what, that's what Danny Masterson is going to be hoping for.
And they're going to appeal it to somebody that doesn't know anything about Scientology, who's going to see this appeal about why was my church involved in the, you know, prosecution of a rape.
It was, you know, and they're hoping that some clueless judge who doesn't know anything about Scientology and its history of harassment is that that argument's going to win with them.
So you can start to see their strategy building.
Wow.
So this is interesting.
It sounds like we really need our judges to be educated on the religions typically.
Not always.
I mean, this is probably more less often than common, if that makes sense, that the religion of someone actually plays an impact on the crime that's taking place.
But the fact that we already have so much Scientology involved, you would think any judge involved in this case really should at least understand it.
It is from like a neutral unbiased position, the best they can to know what they teach, not to try and polemicize against or for, but to simply understand it and how this plays a role.
The harassment situation, they almost can't argue it or they can't win it because they signed something.
Can you tell us what is this that they would have signed that would have allowed Scientology to come harass them nonstop, hack them and all that, and they still can't sue them?
Like what did they sign that could allow that?
Well, yeah.
And let's be clear.
This is on the civil side.
The harassment, the contracts have no effect on the criminal case.
But on the civil side where they're trying to sue the church for harassing them in three recent lawsuits filed by former Scientologists now, going back to 2013.
The first one was about defrauding Scientologists.
The second one was about harassing, libeling and stalking a Scientologist, Valerie Haney.
And the third one were these victims of Danny Madison saying that they've been harassed.
In all three cases, Scientology went into court and said, you signed service contracts in order to get Scientology services, which included an arbitration clause saying that if you had any grievances with the church, you cannot sue us.
You have to go to our version of arbitration.
Now let's just back up a second.
What is arbitration?
Our judges love arbitration because it gets cases off of their docket, right?
And in a lot of cases when you're suing a car dealer, when you're suing a doctor, you know, when you've been harmed by some product, you know, an arbitration is often quite reasonable because you get into the, you get in there with, you know, Monsanto or whoever you're suing.
And they get some retired judge, listens to both sides, and then decides if there's an award.
And that's all really, that's most of what court is anyway, right?
And so arbitration is very popular with judges across the country.
And they tend to uphold these arbitration clauses that if you signed a contract saying you're going to take a dispute to arbitration, you have to go.
The problem here is that Scientology is claiming that they are beholden to that kind of a clause.
When we're talking about people who haven't been in the church for years and it has nothing to do.
The analogy I give, Derek, is imagine if you went to Six Flags and before they let you ride the roller coaster, they wanted you to sign a waiver.
You know, you're not getting, you're not getting on the roller coaster until you sign this waiver and it includes an arbitration clause.
If there's some dispute you have with Six Flags, you know, during your stay, you can't sue us over it.
We'll both go to arbitration.
Okay, fine.
Here, I'll sign it.
I'll go ride the roller coaster.
Now, 10 years later, Six Flags does something you don't like.
You go onto a forum online and say, you know, Six Flags kind of stinks.
And then as a result, they hire a couple of private investigators to come over your house, kill your pet, set fire to your house, and then put up websites calling you a scumbag.
Now, you go into court and you say, hey, Six Flags is terrorizing me.
I want to sue them.
And the court then says, yeah, but you rolled the roller coaster 10 years ago.
You can't, you can't sue them.
You have to go, you know, do you see how ridiculous that sounds?
Absolutely.
And that's exactly the situation these women are in because they took a course in Scientology 20 years ago.
Having to do with a Scientology course in a Scientology building 20 years later, they allege the church is killing their pets.
The woman in Indiana says her house was set on fire.
I didn't make up that detail.
They have set up websites smearing people like Valerie Haney.
Yeah, they've done smear ones on you.
I'm not suing them.
I understand.
What I'm saying is that these people are being told you can't go to court.
So the frightening thing is for the rest of their lives, like there was a great question raised in the appellate hearing last week.
The justice, one of the justices realized how crazy the sound.
He said, hang on.
If you take a single course in Scientology, and that's it, you leave, but you signed that contract 20 years later, you're, you're run over by a Scientology
van in the street.
Are you saying that that person can't sue and has to go to arbitration?
And the attorney for the church said, yes.
I mean, it's just, it's a stunning moment.
Now here's what makes it worse.
Like I said, a lot of cases go to arbitration.
You have two sides.
You have the retired judge.
There's still some fairness there.
This is Scientology arbitration.
They have, it's a panel.
The arbitrary arbitrator is a panel of three people.
They have to be Scientologists and good standing.
And the people suing like the Garcia's or Valerie Haney or these the master's and accusers.
They're all enemies of the church now.
Yep.
You think three Scientologists and good standing are going to be like a retired judge and offer a fair assessment.
Now, the only time it's ever happened in the 70 year history of Scientology,
the Garcia's did go through an arbitration.
They brought 900 pages of evidence to show they've been defrauded.
And this IJC who runs the arbitration for the church only disallowed 90% of it.
I mean, it's a joke.
It's a joke.
And they didn't allow him an attorney and they didn't allow him a transcript.
So, you know, it's a star chamber.
It's completely unfair.
And that's kind of what they were talking about last week.
So I have some hope that these just realized what's going on.
But yeah, I mean, that's years later.
I mean, Valerie Haney.
Okay.
She signed some contracts while she was taking, you know, courses as a Seaworth member in Scientology.
Years later, she's being stalked at her house.
They're putting up websites smearing her and she can't sue them.
I mean, it's just stunning.
And I don't, I don't know when these judges are going to wake up and realize how unfair this is.
Because like I said, so far Scientology has been winning these arguments.
Wow.
So we dealt with the harassment thing here in particular.
And I didn't know that kind of detail, but it does.
That sounds extremely rigged and one-sided.
As far as the rape case is going in particular, what are your hopes of what you're seeing happening here?
I mean, we got Scientology is all in it.
They seem to want to divorce themselves now from it.
Maybe they're seeing a potential negative or pessimistic outcome.
So they're saying, look, we need to separate ourselves from Danny Masterson at this point.
This is negative PR all the way through and through.
Do you think that plays some significant role on why they're going, why are you guys bringing that up?
Why are you guys bringing that up?
Not so far.
I mean, that's, that was a big question I had last year.
I mean, I first broke the news of this investigation of Madison in 2017, you know, four years ago, and he didn't get charged until last, last June, 2020.
And one of the big questions people would always ask me is, is Scientology going to, you know, drop Danny Madison?
I mean, are they going to throw him under the bus?
And I have to say everything I've seen, it's the opposite.
Because not only does Danny have this, you know, Tom Mesrow, one of the most famous defense attorneys in the country.
But I've been documenting ways in which Mesrow has been working from David Miscavige's Church of Scientology playbook.
I mean, there are several times in this case, one of which was a subpoena of me, which was bizarre and got smacked down by the court.
Another was the use of this text, this ethics textbook in the, in the hearing.
There are a number of times when Mesrow has done things that don't seem to help Danny at all.
And every, every single time it looks like it's something David Miscavige would want done.
So I, I mean, I have no proof of it.
But I have to say that up to this point, it's been the Church of Scientology directing Danny Madison's defense less than it is Tom Mesrow and Sharon Applebaum.
Now, I don't know if that's going to change when they bring on these two new attorneys.
I don't, I don't know.
I had a reader at the courthouse that day who saw Mesrow and Sharon Applebaum in the courthouse cafeteria with two attorneys and we kind of think maybe that's the two attorneys were joining.
And my reader did recognize one of them.
It's a very powerful LA attorney.
Her name is Sean Hawley.
She was actually a member of the original OJ Simpson dream team back in 1995.
She's a very famous, very powerful attorney whose clients include Kim Kardashian and Snoop Dogg.
And I don't know that is this a sign that Danny's trying to assemble his own dream team and that maybe the church is finally going to have less say in what's going on.
I mean, for Danny's sake, you'd think he'd stop listening to the Church of Scientology and just, you know, get done what needs to get done because I have to say every time they've done something that wasn't very smart.
It just really looked like it was coming from Scientology.
You know, one example.
Okay.
So they slapped me with a subpoena, as well as the victims, the women victims and then several other people.
And then that was heard in August.
I had an attorney submit a motion to quash and, you know, the LAPD was there representing having somebody represent them.
And you could tell that Judge Olmeida was offended that in these subpoenas what they were trying to get was information from me information from these women information from the LAPD that wouldn't necessarily help Danny Masterson in his criminal rape case.
But that specifically said in the subpoena information about the harassment by the Church of Scientology.
So in other words, they were trying to use the subpoena power in Judge Olmeida's criminal court in order to gather information to help Danny and the church in the civil court.
And the judge was not happy about it.
She actually outright said, you're misusing my court.
You're trying to get information for that other thing.
So again, not smart, not smart.
And the only person who was being served was David Miscavige in the Church of Scientology, not Danny Masterson.
It's a very strange set of affairs there.
Oh, wow.
This is nice and controversial.
There's a lot going on here.
What do you think is going to happen?
I mean, if you were to guess and predict complete guess here, what do you think is going to happen to Danny?
Well, the next thing in the case is February 8th.
On the criminal side, on February 8th, they will have that 995 hearing.
And Danny's attorneys will present the idea that Judge Olmeida was unfair, that the women were lying, that Judge Olmeida shouldn't have led in Scientology.
I have a feeling Judge Cohen is going to turn that down.
And then might try to appeal that higher.
But I have a feeling that those side matters will go away and we really will face a criminal trial in August.
And knowing Judge Olmeida, it will be fair and it will be up to a jury to decide.
And we saw three and a half days of testimony in May from these women and it was very powerful.
They withstood Mesero's cross-examination very well.
But in August, we're going to get like, what, six, seven weeks of testimony from many witnesses?
We'll get documents.
And a guy like Masterson, anytime he's been asked, he's acted really confident like, I'm going to win this.
He has to know that with a jury, celebrities have a little bit of a benefit of the doubt.
Some of them will know who Danny is.
None of them will know anything about these women.
And so, you know, there's going to be a burden on the prosecution to convince this jury beyond a reasonable doubt that Danny did rape these women.
So I don't like to predict things like that, Derek.
I really don't know how things will go.
I just want to get there.
I really want to see a trial.
I think it'll be fascinating.
I think there's going to be some even more revelations about the Church of Scientology in that trial that go beyond what we saw in the preliminary hearing.
And it should be, you know, tons of media coverage and everything.
And I hope to be there like I was there for the preliminary hearing.
On the civil side, it's a little bit harder to predict this justice.
These appellate justice have 90 days to make a ruling about that arbitration issue.
And like I don't, you know, a lot of my experts were not really impressed with the attorney for the women in that hearing, but I don't know that it matters that much.
I did like some of the questions some of these justices were asking so they might rule that the arbitration thing is unfair.
But on the other hand, I also think about the criminal case hanging over it.
You know, I, you know, even if even if the justice rule for these women, they have a January, I think they have a February or something, or maybe it's later in the year.
But at some point, that case is going to face the idea of being put in a stay until the criminal case is concluded.
So the criminal case is much, much more important.
But like I said, so February 8 with the next interesting hearing on the criminal side.
Okay, quick question.
If it comes out at the end, he's charged what he's already charged but guilty.
He goes to prison.
What do you think the impact on the church of Scientology will be from its outcome?
That's purely speculating, of course, and I'm assuming let's say he did it.
They know it.
They convicted him, of course, already.
He's charged and he legitimately goes to prison for this.
What are the implications?
I think the church of Scientology took a real beating in that preliminary hearing and that didn't produce a verdict, right?
And so we're going to have this trial in August.
It's going to last six or seven weeks.
I think it's going to be brutal for the church of Scientology.
I think day in and day out, there's going to be testimony about how these Scientologists were treated, what Scientology's ideas about justice are.
I think the church is going to really suffer damage no matter what the verdict is.
But ultimately, at the very end, when there's a verdict, it's really just about Danny Masterson and his future.
So he's obviously hoping that the jury will sort of be charmed by him or something, I guess, and decide these women's stories don't add up.
But I wouldn't bet against prosecutor Reinhold Mueller.
He's got skills.
And I think he made Mesero look a little silly a couple of times.
It's going to be interesting.
It's going to be fascinating.
Now, as far as other implications for the church of Scientology, I think there should be some questions being asked by other law enforcement agencies about, you know, why it took so long for this case to come forward about some of the allegations that women are making about obstruction of justice about the way, you know, let me give you an example.
Right after Jane Doe won, her incident was in April 2003.
She went to the church right away and said, look, I got to tell you what Danny Masterson did to me.
They then subjected her to an interrogation at the Hollywood Celebrity Center and they pulled Danny Masterson in to do an interrogation.
Okay.
This is Scientology.
They interrogate the hell out of everybody and they keep detailed records.
Why doesn't the LAPD have copies of those interviews?
Right.
Well, the person who interrogated Jane Doe won and the person who interrogated Danny Masterson was the same person.
And I know her name.
Her name is Angie LeClaire.
She was an auditor, a very well-known auditor at the Hollywood Celebrity Center.
It's been there many, many years.
Guess what?
She's suddenly gone and the LAPD was unable to interview her.
Scientology made her go away.
So, I mean, that's the kind of thing that I wish.
I'd like to know that there are some law enforcement agencies besides the LAPD asking themselves, wait a minute, does that break some laws?
Can't some people be interviewed?
Can't we subpoena some records?
So I have heard that some other agencies might be interested, but until we see some real evidence of something being done,
you know, it's very frustrating because the harassment's ongoing.
I mean, these women are still going through harassment now.
Even after it's all been, they've been sued over and everything is supposedly out in the open.
They're still being surveilled and tracked and hacked.
And it's incredible.
Geez.
Have you spoke to any of these women?
The ones that are saying that?
That's why they hauled me into court, Derek.
That's why they slapped a subpoena on me because I've.
So there's things you can, you can't really talk about.
There's some things I can't talk about, but I, but I do.
I can tell you from my reporting that the harassment is still going on and it's very, very difficult on these women.
I mean, I think part of Danny Madison's strategy for delaying and delaying and delaying is that it's not just sitting there idle.
I mean, these women are being targeted.
It's difficult for them to prove that it's a church of Scientology doing it.
But, you know, who else would it be?
So you write, you keep day like you daily update this Tony or take a dot org.
And you keep up with the not only this, but any other news related to Scientology.
In fact, I have from my research and looking into Scientology at all, like trying to kind of look at it critically and like the problems.
This seems to be the go to site for everything that relates to Scientology.
Can you tell us a little bit about it?
You know, I think I'm the only journalist who uses, you know, treat Scientology like a daily beat, you know, and every morning at seven a.m.
Eastern, there's a new story at the underground bunker Tony or take a dot org.
And, you know, we're covering the court cases.
We talk, you know, or we like today I'm going back into the early history of Scientology and showing some things.
And I have just some wonderful, you know, contacts with with with well known former Scientologists that were in for 20, 30, 40 years who write things for us or give us, you know, talk to us for stories.
Tomorrow, I've got a terrific story from someone who was in Scientology for 40 years.
And, you know, that's we have one and beyond the stories that I put up, we have this amazing comment in community that consists of many people who are in Scientology and bring a lot of knowledge.
And it's a it's a as far as online communities goes, it's it's really one of the best because really knowledgeable people having a good time and, you know, not a lot of fights and stuff like that.
So it's just a great place to keep up on what's going on.
I don't cover every story out there.
I mean, other people do great, great journalism, great stories about Scientology, but at least you'll see something every day happening about Scientology in the United States, in England, in Australia, in Europe and South Africa, all over the place.
And either going on right now breaking news, or we're looking at something that happened 20 years ago or 50 years ago.
You know, we're just a lot of people that are very interested in what's where Scientology's been and where it's going.
Yeah, I'm one of them.
Because I'm fascinated with high control cults that they're still going on and this is it's not changed.
I mean, there's a big change that's happening, but I'm saying it hasn't changed.
Like people are still falling for this trick.
So I'm trying to get people to pause, use critical thinking.
Don't get sucked into every as you say on your website right here.
Don't don't fall for every, you know, snake oil, electric selling quacks, cure all type.
And yes, they do a good job at selling it.
And they did a great job of getting people who've come over to this to say I've got all the fixes and it sure fills that way at first.
But then as our friend Karen says, you know, it's kind of like a bait and switch.
And next thing you know, you're you're in debt and you're stuck.
You you cognitive dissonance sets in because you've already put so much money and time effort into it.
I can't imagine Tom Cruise or John Travolta would turn around after as much as they put into it thinking I wasted all that time and something like this that turns out to actually be ridiculous and wrong.
But I'm asking everybody, if you are interested in Scientology material, you want to be on the latest and the greatest or go down through all that he has.
He has tons of breaking stories every day.
Imagine you can go back and check this stuff out.
Go support the the subscribe, you know, go support Tony Ortega, join what he's got going on here.
And is there a way for people to like leave chats, comments, things like that when they subscribe?
They're well, like I said, every day we have a story.
We have a comment in community that can join in there.
And we also have a Facebook group as well for the for Tony Ortega.org.
And and then I just I privately talked to a lot of former Scientologists all the time about what's going on in their lives and what's happening.
So yeah, please come on by and check it out.
And that's for anybody who doesn't know, so go check out the books.
And there is the Facebook group.
You can find that out on the website, of course, just clicking here and he has Twitter.
Go subscribe, check him out.
Also, Mythition as a patron.
If you guys want to help us out, you can join to help keep doing what we're doing.
You could steer the way that we take our path in terms of scholars and what we educate people with.
And if you have a question, I can interview these scholars asking your question.
But ultimately, go subscribe.
If you're not a patron, of course, I always mention that.
But literally what you do is fascinating.
I've been well, you've been you've been doing quite a few Scientology stories lately.
Have you found that your viewers are interested in that?
Yeah, they're big time interested in you post all of this to your website.
So there is a big underground community of people.
You should go check out Tony's stuff because you can actually talk to a lot of people who have firsthand experience with leaving the cult and knowing the inside scoop.
It's really, I know it sounds weird for me to say this, but being one who left Christianity, I have a fascination with figuring out how like humans have manipulated humans using these.
I'm not for them.
I'm saying like, I'm fascinated in knowing why do people believe in these things and what happened and why and what did they teach?
Were they really putting people in little on base, you know, prisons and what kind of trauma did some of these people go through?
And then when you see that almost 10 different cults, you start to see like kind of a trope in these control systems.
It's a trope.
High control groups all use the exact same methods.
And it always strikes me when people see a documentary about Rajneesh or they see a documentary about JW, I always hear from people saying they're using Scientology techniques.
And I have to tell them no, they're everyone's using the same techniques.
They're not stealing from Scientology.
I swear they all hit on the same exact techniques of information control, high pressure donation pressure.
And, you know, splitting families apart that, you know, if you don't, if you're not with us, you know, you're going to be against us and we're going to take your family and, you know, leave you.
So they all use the same kinds of really rotten techniques.
And one of the things that makes Scientology really interesting is that it was started by this science fiction writer, Elron Hubbard, back in 1950.
And he was just, it was a business fetishist.
He thought that he had the greatest ideas for running an administration in the world.
And he wrote just incredible amounts of material about every kind of rule and everything so that Scientologists would feel like whatever question you have, Ron's already been there and already written it.
Well, then he died in 1986.
David Miscavige took over, but they adopted the idea that, yeah, but Hubbard was right about everything.
We have to keep following his rules.
So 33 years later, 35 years later, they're still doing things by the book that Hubbard wanted them to do.
Now, Miscavige has made some changes, and it's very interesting to look at some of those and what those are.
But for the most part, you can kind of predict what Scientology is going to do in every case because they just keep going back to the things Ron Hubbard wrote in the 60s and 70s, particularly with the harassment and the surveillance.
These are rules he wrote in 1965.
Fair game.
Wow.
Yeah, this is interesting.
I can't imagine just wondering 300 years from now looking back what people are going to think about this.
I suspect, and I'm maybe making a complete guess here, someone will come on charismatic to lead this little cult and try to implement changes to try and keep up with.
I always call it moving the goalpost.
I mean, Christian groups do this.
You know, God used to be right behind the clouds.
Then we got there.
We looked behind them and realized, okay, no, we don't.
He's not there.
Oh, no, no, no.
God's outside of the universe space and time.
And it's like, whoa, whoa, whoa.
Where does this say that?
You know, Scientology actually has an advantage there because you're right.
I mean, this is the problem with the Millerites and some of the other Christian, you know, teleological cults is that they set a date.
Okay.
You know, this is the end of the world is coming on June 5th.
You know, June 5th comes and goes.
Then what do you do?
Right.
Well, Scientology operates with a different time scale.
I mean, you know, back in the 70s, Hubbard would tell them that a nuclear war is coming.
We need to get ready for it, but never setting a date.
But Scientology operates on the idea that the, you know, scientists tell us the universe is about 13 and a half, 13.8 billion years old.
Right.
That's nothing on a Scientology time scale.
Right.
Hubbard says the universe has been here for quadrillions of years and that you and I have been living for like 76 trillion years or more.
Thousands of trillions of years.
And that we just go lifetime to lifetime.
We are actually this immortal being called a Satan that goes from, you know, body to body to body.
So, and not only has it been here for trillions of years, it's going to be here for trillions of years.
And so that's the appeal of Scientology is they're telling you that your eternity is going to be assured, but nothing's imminent.
See, that's the advantage they have over some of these Christian groups is that if nothing happens for 50 years, Scientology is fine.
It's like, yeah, but we're on time scales of billions of years.
So they don't have that pressure.
And so they just just try to follow Hubbard's words to the letter.
And so they end up doing the same thing over and over and over again.
And they think they're right.
Well, thank you so much.
This has been wonderful.
This will also probably appear on your website, which is what I want people to go and see that I'm working with you.
I want to get more stories, obviously educating people of things that have happened, whether they're harmful, whether personal experiences that people that I'll interview.
I'm hoping to go meet Mike Render down in Florida sometime this coming year to interview him in person.
And also, what was, what's the gentleman, his best friend is running for a political position down there?
Well, there's already a city councilman in Clearwater, Mark Bunker, who was a longtime activist against Scientology.
And Aaron Smith Levin, a former Scientologist, is now also running for city council to join Mark on the council.
And as Mark Bunker explained to me, they only need three votes to be able to make big changes in that town.
So, you know, I don't know if they're going to recruit a third person to run, but yeah, Aaron's on the ballot for this March.
Good. Well, Aaron's the one I think I'm trying to interview.
When I go down there, maybe I'll meet him in person and we can do some more.
Thank you so much.
Any final words you'd like to say?
No, thanks for having me on, Derek.
Have fun.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen, down in the description, all of the links are there.
Let's help expose the cults to help people have freedom and don't get stuck by the car salesman who duped your grandmother or mother or father or brother when they're in a tough time to go and sell their
Satan to this organization.
Never forget to we are MythVision.
We are MythVision.
