Put it this way, in the ancient world things weren't as pretty as they are today. Today,
on this show, I have two scholars talking about the ancient Near Eastern Laws like
Hammurabi codes and other laws by the Hittites, etc. and the Bible.
Are the law codes and those codes similar? What about slavery? What does this mean? Could a human
actually own another human? I'm not talking about the Hittites or the Hammurabi code. We know that
to be the fact. However, what about the Bible? Why is it that Christian apologists avoid this?
Just head on. Why don't they just say, hey, this is the reality of the ancient world? Well,
today, not only is the gentleman we're going to talk to a scholar, but he's also a Christian.
And me and Dr. Bowen have much respect for this guy for at least being honest
and showing what the facts are. So, stay tuned.
We are MythVision. Welcome back to MythVision Podcast. I'm your host, Derek Lambert,
and co-hosting with me today, who's also a guest, Dr. Joshua Bowen. For those of you who don't know,
Dr. Joshua Bowen is obviously a Hebrew scholar, but also he knows a Cadian, Sumerian. The guy is
an Assyriologist. He has a PhD in this from the Johns Hopkins University. I'm not going to read
your whole bio because you're practically family here, man. Get the books, learn to read ancient
Sumerian, did the Old Testament, endure slavery, and I think we're going to touch about some of
the ancient Near Eastern codes, if you will. Like, what was slavery? What were these things?
We're not going to spend too much time on that. We're going to talk about other stuff because
we have another guest, but also learning to pray in a dead language. I ask everybody to go check out
the YouTube channel. Dr. Josh needs you to hit that bell right there, or you might get cursed.
I'm just saying. And also the website, digitalhammurabi.com. Make sure you guys go there because
the Hammurabi codes and any curses that might come along will find you if you do not check them out.
So, there you have it. And we have Jacob Caballero here today. Am I saying that right,
Caballero? Yeah, close enough. I'm saying it too quick though. I got to take it slow and like
say it slower or something. How do we pronounce it? Caballero. Well, tell us a little bit about
yourself. Since this is the first time you came on MythVision, your PhD program right now, if you
will, student. Yeah, I'm writing my dissertation on sex crimes in the ancient Near East. I'm a
six-year PhD student at the University of Texas here in Austin. I'm a second career PhD student.
I spent almost 20 years as a criminal defense attorney here in Texas, mostly here in the Austin
area and up in Fort Worth. I was a trial attorney, tried everything from DWI to murder.
Wow. If you were in North Carolina, you might have been my lawyer a few times there, but
this is not a lie. Okay. Anyways, we're going to talk about laws,
laws that have been broken or laws that have been established in the ancient world.
Not talking about ones that I've broken. We're going to go into the ancient world. And I think
it'll be really, really important to lay the groundwork. So Dr. Josh decided he, I know he
didn't want to join me today, but he decided he would. He pitied me, but he came on and he said,
let me help lay it out a little bit to maybe... This stream does not need me. You have Jay.
You have Jay, but I'm happy to be here to fill up space on the screen, I guess.
What are we dealing with today, Josh? And why do we have Jay here? Because this is really,
really... I think we're going to touch on some important stuff for you and me to discuss, but
lay that out for our audience if you don't mind. Yeah. I mean, so I met Jay last year, right,
when he applied for the Humans Against Poor Scholarship Fund, the thing that we do on
Digital Hammurabi. And he talked about his dissertation, which I'm sure he'll go into a
little bit here, but talking about sex crimes in the Ancient Near East and the Hebrew Bible.
And it's just... He studies under Bruce Wells, who is a favorite of mine. If you don't have this
book, Everyday Law in Biblical Israel, I highly recommend it. My old advisor, very briefly,
Raymond Westbrook. And of course, Jay's, Bruce Wells, wrote it together. It's a nice
easy-ish read as far as law books go on the Ancient Near East. But it's great. I actually
just read it again yesterday and today. But the problem that I think we see in our online discussions
is one of the big ones anyway, when it comes to law in the Ancient Near East, is that people have a
foot in both camps. And so I really want Jay to talk about this if he wants to. On the one hand,
under a certain view of an erency of the Old Testament or the Hebrew Bible,
God gives these commandments to Moses on Mount Sinai. And these are the laws that
you're to set before them. They're supposed to do these things and so on. And that works well for
everyone until you bring up something that's distasteful, right? Laws on slavery or as I'm sure
Jay has dealt with time and again, like the laws in Deuteronomy 22 or Deuteronomy 21.
And it becomes, wait a minute, how could God command these sorts of things? And one of the
things that's becoming quite in vogue now is for an apologist to say, well, these laws,
scholars know like Jean Batero will write and say, well, these law collections,
there's not codes, right? These aren't normative or legislative. And so, you can't really hold
God responsible in that sense because God's not giving them. These aren't normative.
And so you have to kind of pick one, I think, in that particular discussion. Are these
inspired laws that are coming from God according to your view of inerrancy and inspiration? Or
are we looking at these like ancient Near Eastern texts and saying that they're not from God? They're
part of a different style of something more akin to what we see in the ancient Near Eastern
collections. I don't think you can have it both ways, is my point. So I just thought it would
be great to have someone come on to lay out just somebody who has not only biblical
expertise and ancient Near Eastern expertise, which I don't have. So then everybody's, you know,
well aware in ancient Near Eastern law, biblical law. But he also has it in modern, you know,
law as we talked about. So he can make the connections, I think that a lot of people can't.
And I would just be really interested to hear, and I'm sure the audience would as well,
just a broad introduction. What is ancient Near Eastern law? What are the law collections?
What are scholars debate about them? What does everybody agree on? What do they debate about?
And then what do we think about these biblical laws? And what are the things, you know, are they
wisdom? Are they the same as legal collections? What are the ramifications for that from a sort
of fundamentalist approach to the biblical text? And so that was my thought. And I thought Jay was
a perfect person to bring on for that. So from our conversation, I think he is too. Yeah.
So no pressure, Jay.
All of that in an hour. Got it.
Everyone just pay attention. Jay, yeah, go ahead and take us into, introduce us to the topic,
and then we'll go from there. And I guess we'll freestyle into necessary,
I'll have you elaborate or something. Who knows?
Yeah. So let's talk about just what's out there as far as law, what we might consider to be law.
So the thing that most of us think about when we talk about laws, we talk about the law codes.
So these are things like the laws of Eshnuna, the laws of Hammurabi, the middle Assyrian laws,
the Hittite laws, and then of course the three law codes that are in the Hebrew Bible.
These are the documents using that term to include clay tablets.
The cover most of what we have as far as what is purported to be legislation.
Now, those documents span from the early 2nd millennium BCE up until,
you know, maybe we'll say the 4th century BCE. So they cover about 1600 years coming from
different time periods. So Hammurabi is going to come from the 18th century BCE. The middle Assyrian
laws are somewhere around the 11th to 12th century BCE. The Hittite laws range, the old Hittite laws
from the 14th century, the new Hittite laws from the 11th century. And then of course the massive
debates about when to date the biblical law codes. The earliest that people have really dated the
book of the Covenant is maybe about the 10th century, maybe 11th century. Some people will date
that later down to the 7th, 8th century, some even down to the 7th century. Deuteronomy typically gets
dated in that 7th century. And then the priestly legislation, the stuff that's found in Numbers
and Leviticus gets batted around quite a bit depending on who you're talking to. And so
some people will date it early, 7th or 8th century, some people date it late,
3rd, 4th, 5th century BCE. So talking about quite a long time in different locales. So
Hammurabi is from Babylon, the middle Assyrian laws are from Assyria, the Hittite laws are from
Anatolia, biblical laws obviously being from the Levant, from Palestine. So those are the,
what we call the law codes, because they are groups of laws that are in a document together
that seem to purport to be the legal rules for that particular culture.
They are not exclusive, obviously. We have edicts and letters from kings that also
have or carry the imprimatur of authority or legislation. So there are also these sorts of
documents that are out there that carry the authority of law, like what we might call an
executive order, but they're not incorporated into the law code, what we're calling the law code.
Now, I put code in quotation marks because as Dr. Josh has alluded to,
there's a lot of debate as to what those documents, what their function was and what they represent.
So on the one hand, on one extreme, you might have somebody who says these were the real
functioning laws for that society. On the other extreme, you will have somebody who says these
are just scribal exercises. They have no real connection to what the actual law of that society
was. Basically what we found is something akin to a bunch of lawyers sitting in a room
saying, hey, this is what we would do if we were in charge, but obviously they're not in charge,
the king's in charge. And obviously there are people who are in between those two polar extremes.
I consider myself probably somebody that's in between. I don't think that they are
necessarily not reflective of the state of things, but I think that they also include
aspirational sections that the authors thought the society should head in that direction.
Could we pause for just a second because I want to make sure that, sorry Derek,
I feel like I'm stepping on your toes here. I just want to make sure that this is clear
for everybody that's watching. So if you look at, for example, if you pick up,
let's just say you Google Code of Hammurabi and you get an online
list of the 282 laws, that's what most people think about when they think about the Code of
Hammurabi. If this happens, then do this, that casuistic style. And so that's what they focus
on. They look at the laws, okay, so if that happens and we're supposed to do this, and so these
are the laws. And when we think about that from a modern sense, if a person goes over 65 miles an
hour in a 65, then they will get a ticket. So if that happens, then we have to do this.
And what I think the picture that comes to mind when people read these laws is that there's a judge
or judges and they're sitting there and they hear, you know, two people come up and well,
I had an ox and that ox, that guy knew that that ox gored people and he didn't do anything about it
and he gored my son to death and the judge goes, okay, all right, what are we going to do here?
Let me just turn to that law of Hammurabi and it says, okay, so if, so he did, okay, so what we're
going to, right, so your son's going to, because that's what it says here, your son gets killed,
so that's what we're going to do. And that makes sense from our perspective, right? But the reality
here is that it's much more complex than that. Those laws are on a big stelae, right? And it's
what, two meters tall and it's got a prologue and an epilogue and I like, I'll let you talk about
what these, these are doing, but I think it's important for people to realize that the difference
between these are a set of laws that the judges were bound by, that King Hammurabi said, okay,
everybody, we might have done it differently before, but here, these are my laws, this is how
the judges are going to operate now. Is that what it was like? Or as you said, do these laws reflect
what the legal traditions were? Maybe, maybe flesh that out just a little bit so that people
can understand the real problem here. Okay, yeah, great, great questions. So
obviously, we don't know exactly how the judges deliberated and how they came to the conclusions
that they came to within any individual case. What we do know is that we really can't find
in the trial records that we have, now these are not transcripts like you would get today,
obviously, they're a summary of what happened. You know, so and so came before the judges,
he made this complaint against this other person, we brought that person in, they told their story,
here's what the judges decided. So you'll get all that in just one tablet. And so it's a,
it's a cursory summary of what happened. Nowhere in those summaries do we get
any reference to the code of Hammurabi for one, or if you're in Assyria to the middle of Syrian
laws. So in so far as they are the standard by the, the, the, the they being the code as a code,
being the standard by which judges judge, that is probably not the case. Now, the question then is,
how closely does the code of Hammurabi and what it prescribes reflect the reality of what judges
usually did? That's where the real question is now, because we really don't know. And that's,
again, back to some people think, yes, it's, it's very much reflecting that reality. And so
to some degree, we could, we would treat the code of Hammurabi as what we call illegal circles,
a digest. So a digest is a book that you can go to look up any topic, and it'll give you just a
quick summary of what the current law is in the relevant cases. So you can go and you can look
up murder. And they'll, that'll be a big section in the Texas digest, but you can find,
you know, what are the elements of murder? How did those get satisfied? And what are the relevant
cases that can give you that information on where the courts currently stand? So it's very possible
that the code of Hammurabi really functions like a digest to just say, this is kind of the state of
the law as, as is being exercised here. Now, sometimes very rare instances, in modern times,
courts will cite to a digest or to a some sort of legal textbook, doesn't happen very often.
And so in, if that's the function of the code, it would make sense for it never to be cited.
Because we all know what the law is, this is just telling us in, in sort of cursory form what the
law is. I don't need to refer to that because I know I'm the judge. And so that is, is one very
strong possibility of what the code is doing. Could I draw an analogy? Sorry. Sorry, I got that
feedback real quick. So if I could, if I could draw an analogy and just you tell me how close you
think it is, and, and what are the problems with it? So if you pick up the Chicago manual of style,
and it says, it's, it's okay to end a sentence in a preposition, right, or it's not okay to,
you know, split an infinitive or it is okay or whatever. And it's describing any grammar like
that, the grammar book that's, that's describing how it is that people speak or how it is that people
write. You could go to that grammar, you could go to that, you know, handbook or whatever,
manual of style, and you could say, okay, this reflects how people spoke or how people wrote.
Now, not necessarily in every case, but the goal was to try to, you know, make it that way.
But it's not as though that is some, you know, law book in that sense. It's, it's, the grammar is
de, I mean, the handbook is describing how people speak and write. These are customary
rules. It's not prescribing. In other words, if somebody ends a sentence in a preposition,
you can't go to that. Wait a minute. Now, it says here, you can't do that. That's not the function
of that grammar. It's to, it's to describe how it is that people speak or write. How close or far
away from that is this idea of what the laws were doing? Well, you know, as well as I do, what happens
when you deviate from the Chicago manual of style, if somebody comes back and tells you,
you have to change it. So I'm not, I'm not sure how close that that is. Because, you know,
anybody who's gone through a PhD program in the ancient Near East has been dinged by,
this doesn't follow the style, you have to conform to the style. But yeah, it's,
it's, it's a, it's a summary of what usually happens. That would, that, that would, yeah.
So, but the analogy to grammar is, is well, well formed because grammar changes, right?
So, you know, for me, I'm 50 years old, you don't do Jesus's with an apostrophe S. And that just
grates on my nerves to absolutely no end. But in the SBL manual of style now, that's the standard.
So, laws do change as well. And so what was, what was the standard certainly can be amended or
evolve or something like that. And so, yeah, you know, the Chicago manual of style seventh edition
is, it's no longer valid. And if somebody looks at it, you'll see all these rules, but the rules don't,
they're not applicable now. And so that's one of the things that we need to keep in mind when
we're looking at these ancient Near Eastern laws is, even if we take those to be the laws
at the time that the obelisk was inscribed means nothing for five years later.
If I may, how much overlap or comparison to the ancient Near Eastern law codes or laws,
if you will, like Hammurabi and others to the biblical, do we have in comparison? Like how
would you say that the biblical laws are just another form of ancient Near Eastern law codes?
It sounds to me that it isn't standard. The way that you've kind of presented this, the best way
I could describe that is it's not like every single one of these laws, the way that Orthodox Jews,
for example, present their 613 laws and we must all abide. That's like a later idea surrounding
a text. Once it's been, I guess you'd say magnified on a level becomes canonical. It almost becomes
something that initially it may not have been. Am I on the right track there in that thinking?
It depends. Well, the problem is it depends on how what the story was and we don't know the story
necessarily. Okay, so what do I mean by that? If you look at the three biblical law codes,
the Book of the Covenant, the priestly legislation, and then Deuteronomy.
There are portions within those that seem to contradict each other
and seem to say, do one thing here, don't do another thing here. Okay,
or don't do that same thing here, right? So I'll give you an example. One example is in Deuteronomy
there's what's called the law of levered marriage. Now the law of levered marriage
is designed to propagate a man's line. So if there are two brothers who live together in an
undivided estate, so dad is dead or dad may still be alive, the brothers are living together.
One brother's wife dies without having children. His surviving brother is to take the dead brother's
wife and propagate children in his name. Okay, to keep that line going.
If you go over to Leviticus, without any exception being given, it says if you have sexual intercourse
with your sister-in-law, that's incest. That's a no-no and we're going to kill you for it.
So on its face, those just don't look like they go together. Now you can do some things and you
can say, well, the incest law doesn't really take this into account, but it's so on point you would
have to say, how is this not like that, right? Or even something, sorry, even something like
the slavery laws about taking a fellow Israelite as a dead slave in Exodus and Deuteronomy, but
not in Leviticus. But not in Leviticus. And of course, as Dr. Josh and I talked at one point,
it seems that the status of women changes between those two. In Exodus, it looks like they can be
concubines or sex slaves, and it looks like Deuteronomy eliminates the possibility for an
Israelite woman to become a sex slave. So what it appears to me to be, and this is, I'm still
working through all this, is there was probably some core laws that were given, and these are being
expanded upon as situations change, and they're being reinterpreted depending on what the current
circumstances are. When I look at what's called the holiness code, so this is the second half
of Leviticus primarily. There's some holiness sections in other parts of the Pentateuch,
but it's primarily confined to that second half of Leviticus. It appears to me, and Dr. Josh can
certainly feel free to contradict this. It appears to me that these have been written
after some sort of a national trauma has taken place, because the change in tone is so dramatic.
The author is so concerned with the personal purity of each and every Israelite that just
doesn't seem to shine through in the other two law codes. It seems like this author thinks
that the people of Israel have done something that's so offended Yahweh that it has caused
the national tragedy or calamity to take place, and we've got to write some rules
to get people to stay in line so that the deity is not angry with us anymore, and it just looks
so much different than the Book of the Covenant in Deuteronomy. It looks like there is something
that has happened there. You can look at sections of Deuteronomy that are sort of similar.
They don't seem to have the national calamity, but you can tell something's happened, right?
So if you go to Deuteronomy 17, it's got this very brief section on the rights and responsibilities
of a king. Now, in the narrative of Deuteronomy, Moses is giving this as the people enter the land,
and there's no anticipation of a king. God is supposed to be the king, so to have this section
in there clearly indicates that there's been a king, or we're on the precipice of having a king,
or something like that is taking place. But the right rights or the responsibilities of a king
are basically make a copy of the law and just read it, and that's your job. That's all you're
supposed to do. I think a fundamentalist Christian just tried to call you to stop me from saying
what you're saying here. Yeah, but it seems like we're responding to something. We've had a king
that is unjust, crazy, done stuff that we don't, we as the authors, whoever's authoring that section,
doesn't like, and we're responding to it. Now, as an evangelical, that doesn't bother me,
okay? Because there is this sense in the Hebrew Bible that, and this is really picked up in
how the rabbis treat the text, is whatever the law was that was originally given,
when we expand on it, we are still working within that original law. And so the text that sort of
brings this out, or speaks to this, or is giving me reason to think that this might be legitimate,
is in the Passover text. And it talks about how not just the people that come out of the Passover,
or endure the Passover and then come out of Egypt, but their sons, it's like their children
participated in that Passover as well. So they're seeing that it's not just we're taking part of
this event, but it's all of our children are in us taking part in this event. You see something
like this also in Genesis, this sort of reference. And so it seems to me that within
the Jewish Hebrew mindset, there's nothing illegitimate about taking a law that says,
don't commit adultery, and then doing what's being done in Deuteronomy 22, and expanding on it later
on, and giving more flesh to what does that mean? What does adultery mean? It's this, not this.
And that they feel like they are sitting, not sitting, let me rephrase that, that they are
giving the word that Moses gave, because they're just expanding on what was already given beforehand,
if you're looking at it within the narrative context.
I think that, so that it's, again, thinking of the audience,
so that it's clear some basic points that are good to pull from this,
are that the reason that we have to think through why it is that we have solutions to these issues
is the issues are we don't have a single unified penitouk. And this is something that
I think fundamentalist evangelicals bulk at quite a bit. And I don't think they need to,
and certainly Jay, it doesn't sound like you think they need to, that it's not problematic for the
evangelical position, ultimately. But when you talk about the covenant code,
and the Deuteronomistic history, or the Deuteronomist writing in Deuteronomy, or
what you see in Leviticus, in the priestly narrative, or the priestly code,
these are coming at different times. It's a different stage in the law. And that's very
important, I think, because, again, I started this off with the problem that I face online a lot,
and that is, with a fundamentalist evangelical Christian, they want that unity of the text.
This is written by Moses at one time, the whole thing, save maybe his death at the end of Deuteronomy.
And yet, when we get to these types of things that we're discussing, how do you have this
here, and this other thing here, and they seem to contradict? Well, then, wait a minute, yeah,
then it seems like we pick up a little bit of critical analysis, and we say, well,
these aren't normative, right? So there's a little bit of play allowed. Well, wait a minute,
if you're going to hold to one part of it, you've got to follow that through and be consistent with
it. In other words, you can't say, Moses wrote all of Genesis. And then, if somebody points out,
Genesis 37 has both the Midianites and the Ishmaelites taking Joseph down to Egypt,
which one is it? You can't then say, well, one is P and one is J, right, or one's J and one is EI,
but you can't wait a minute. Those are diametrically opposed to one another. You can't have one and
then have two. So I think that's really important to understand here that these multiple sources,
however we want to think about them, be they layers or whatever, it's important to recognize
with the legal sections as well. I want to try and do something here, Jay, that I think would be
interesting. And the first thing I'd like to add, I'm going to ask very simple, bold questions. I'd
like both of you guys to comment on. And it'll be interesting to have Jay comment on because he is
evangelical. And what I appreciate about that is you're trying to honestly assess what the reality
was in antiquity. And the sad part, and Josh will tell you this, this is the sad part that we run
into every day. If everyone who was on the evangelical side, and they say, look, we believe,
in fact, we believe in the Bible in many respects, if they accept the realities and didn't try to
lie or hide behind, well, slavery wasn't really slavery or, you know, sex slaves, undermine.
So my question is, leading up. Wow, that wasn't leading at all. Yeah, I know, right?
Give the right answer, Jay. Give the right answer. No pressure. So slavery, was slavery,
slavery, was sex slaves as women a real thing? Did a man who raped a woman actually have the
rights to marry this woman? These are bold, immoral things in our current context that we don't even
permit in antiquity. That was well known. It was common. This was something that was probably in
any law codes that are everywhere else that we find. Can you answer those things boldly and just
let everybody know once and for all? Where are you on those things? Yeah, if you don't mind.
So again, I wasn't there. So understand that I'm taking the documents as I find them
and applying whatever methodology I seem to be applying to them. Was slavery real? Yes, absolutely.
There are at least two kinds of slavery. There's debt slavery, and then there's a three
times, excuse me, debt slavery, what I'll call sex slavery, and then what's called chattel
slavery. So debt slavery is I owe you money. I can't pay it. And so I have to work for you
a certain period of time to pay off my debt. Sex slavery is,
for lack of a better term, it's you're buying a woman for your sexual pleasure and for her
reproductive capacity. So you're basically buying a slave so that you can propagate
more slaves, because the children that she has are going to be slaves. And that's just what it was.
Chattel slavery is more akin to what we have or had, excuse me, in the antebellum South,
which is you own somebody for life. And that's just it. And you own their children and their
children's children. And that's just the way it is. Their whole life unless you decide to set them
free is going to be enslaved. Okay. Now, whether or not the chattel slavery was
akin to what we had in the antebellum South, I don't think we have enough information to know.
It's very possible that it was, that it was just as harsh and brutal and ugly as it was here
in the South. Debt slavery is a little bit different because this is a person who
will regain their freedom again, and they will be a free class citizen. So they're going to be
treated a little bit differently. And then obviously the concubine or the sex slave,
she's bound to that family again for life, unless for some reason they decide to let her go.
There's some laws that seem to indicate that freedom was not unheard of. So
if a man's married to a free citizen woman, and she can't give him kids,
and she hands over a slave to him, and he has children through the slave,
then when the wife dies, if she still dies childless, then the woman and her children can go free.
Or the woman can go for your children. The woman can go free. And so there is some hint
that there was potentially an end for sex slavery for some. And it's certainly,
you know, let's be real, once a woman hits menopause, she's really not much used to her
owner anymore. Because she's there to bear children. So it may be that at that point they
got freed up as well. But yeah, that's the reality. There's too much of it in too many
of the law codes. We just know it's there. So I have to say, and then I want Josh to comment,
because you walked on hot coals over hot lava through every type of fire you can imagine
like nothing right now. And I really appreciate that. That was really what I was saying.
You would not believe. I mean, I want to just clip that and say, look, fundamentalist people that
I talked to, I'm not just bullshitting you, right? This is, sorry, like I'm not making this up,
right? And this is not a problem for so many evangelical Christians, like you don't have
to argue with me about this. Let's just move on. And Jay, before you comment, I just have to say,
yeah, and here's the, oh, go ahead. Go ahead then. Go ahead. Well, what I was going to say is,
from an evangelical perspective, I'll put that hat on even a little bit more.
If you believe what the Bible says, then you have to believe what the Bible says about humanity.
And all it says, unequivocally, from beginning to end, is man is desperately wicked, and he
will do evil and vile things every time you give him a chance. So why we would debate about whether
or not this kind of nastiness was happening in the ancient Near East is kind of beyond me.
Anytime you give one person the opportunity to rule over or have authority or a press or whatever
word you want to use, another person, they're going to abuse it and they're going to do nasty stuff.
And that should not be a controversial position to an evangelical or a fundamentalist because
it's all over the place in the Bible. Wow. Well, you haven't been obviously checking all the
apologists out on YouTube because there's a lot of them. But I will say this. One of the things,
you made it sound very common sense, and that's what I appreciated. You said it very clear,
very common sense, is the reason why this is so apparently clear is, and you did say this,
but I want a little elaborate, if you will, the digital homer, I call it digital homerabi code.
The digital homerabi code. That's twice people have done that. I know, right, is because these other
ancient Near Eastern codes that you talked about, the Hittites, you name it, the list can go on of
the ancient Near Eastern laws, we can see, okay, they're doing very similar things. So it leads
me to ask you, were there any plagiarism or copying of the laws of the ancient Near East used in the
biblical law codes, Leviticus, Deuteronomy, did they borrow from these other cultures? I mean,
like, do we know that? I mean, like you said, you always say, I wasn't there. But can we give
literary reason to say, hey, this... Solve it, Jay. Solve it. Come on. No pressure, no pressure.
$64,000 question. The short answer is no, we don't know.
So let's look at the, go back to the timeline for the law codes.
Hemerabi is approximately 1750 BCE. Middle Syrian law is approximately 11th, 12th century BCE.
Hittites, approximately, you know, 15th to 12th century BCE. Okay. Probably by the time that the
codes that we're looking at are written, those are gone. Nobody, nobody in Israel can see those
things. The Hittite kingdom is wiped out. The Middle Syrian kingdom gets wiped out. They come back
later on. But at the time that these codes are starting to be written, they're nowhere. And
Hemerabi has long since disappeared, as has his kingdom. And they've had two or three, you know,
intermediate dynasties. So to make a claim of plagiarism or direct copying or direct
knowledge is difficult at best. Now, Dr. Josh's supervisor or mentor Raymond Westbrook argues,
and I think rightly so, that these laws just come out of the cultures that are just very similar.
And they're in contact with one another. And so it would not be lunatic for them to just pick up
this stuff naturally, just by being in contact with other cultures. They're going to pick some
of this stuff up without ever having read Hemerabi's code or the Hittite laws or the Middle
Assyrian laws. It's just, as they say, in the air, right? So this is just what we do,
like you mentioned earlier. If some guy writes to a girl who's not married or engaged,
you know, we make him pay a penalty for it. But they've committed an act of marriage,
and it's now a marriage. Now, the father of the rape girl can make the decision of whether or
not he wants to give her. And so if he decides not to go through with that, then that's one thing.
But in general, a marriage act has been committed. It's a marriage. And that's just the way they
thought about stuff like that. The idea, and this is one of the things that I'm wrestling with,
and on the Humans Against Poor Scholarship interview that I just had, I sort of elaborated
on this with Megan, is the notion of a female having control of her own sexuality, that's just
foreign. That's not anywhere on their radar. The notion of her consenting or not consenting to
anything, that's just, that's crazy talk to them. So when we look at those laws, it's just,
you know, it's absolutely horrifying to talk about forcing a girl to marry her rapist.
For them, they're looking at the issues of, well, who else is going to marry my daughter?
And they've already done the marriage act. So whether it's forced or not,
they've already sort of entered into that relationship. And, you know, she has a very
good chance of becoming pregnant with his child. And so that's just what you did,
you married her off anyway. Even though we look at it, and just in revulsion, which I think
is how we should look at it, is just horrible. But they're not looking at, one,
a woman really doesn't have any say, she really doesn't have a personhood when it comes to her
sexuality. Sex is about creating the next generation for me and my family. And, you know,
women are basically, they're just fungible assets for doing that. And so once you understand where
they're coming from, then the laws make perfect sense. But we, I think we ought to look at those
and go, that's just awful. That's not the way it's supposed to be. And go from there.
One of the things I think Derek and I may have talked about previously was, you know, laws don't
ever give the morality that people ought to do. It gives the lowest common denominator that our
society will tolerate, right? When you go below a certain level, we've decided, all right, that's
criminal, we're going to have to punish you with that. But it's never mandates what the highest
level of morality or expectation of morality is. It always is the lowest common denominator.
It can never legislate the highest, the highest that things can be. And so I take that for all
of these laws as well. You know, we're, this is the lowest common denominator that the state
will allow and can continue to function. So I would hope that men treated their daughters better,
right? But there has to be, yeah, there's always a floor beyond which you can't go, but the floor
is never where we really want to be. Wow. I think it might be a good idea sort of to
hate to say balance this out, but maybe for some listeners, you know, oh, well, they just,
they just hate the Bible and they're going to look for everything. Of course, as an evangelical
Christian, I suspect that you don't hate the Bible. But so that we, so that we are clear
about that. I think it'd be a good thing to talk about how some of them, we talked about this sort
of off, off air and through email, Jay, how the Hebrew Bible develops some aspects. I don't know
that I like the word progressive. I don't think we use that word. Maybe we did. I don't remember.
But of course, the texts are, you know, as you said, so much later, it's hard for them to be
progressive if they're later. But let's talk about, if we can, some of the ways that we would
look at the laws in the Hebrew Bible and go, okay, that's better than what we see in the other
ancient Near Eastern laws. So maybe you could talk about that a little bit. Sure. So let me hold
that because there's something that you said at the beginning that triggered something in my mind,
again, something that I discussed with Derek. All you have to do is look at
the, the, how the Gospels describe Jesus talking about the law and morality to understand that
this is not, this is not just Jay's idea, right? So if you go to the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus is
very clear, right? The law says don't commit adultery. That's not even close to being the
morality that you should be. The morality that you should be at is you don't look at a woman
lustfully, you know, which is basically don't look at her as a sex object, right? And what's
interesting about that is it doesn't limit it to like, but it's okay to look at your wives that way.
It's like, don't look at women, period, like that, like they're a sex object. That's, that's a no-no,
okay? So if you do that, you're not being moral. You are not actually following what is intended
by the law. So he takes the law and says, it confirms in my mind, that's just a baseline
for society to function here, way up here, is what it means to actually be a good person
and what it means to be a moral person. And so that's where I go, if somebody has a problem,
is like, well, did you have a problem with what Jesus said as well? That's what I would say to
another evangelical, because Jesus is telling you that the law does not make you a good person.
If you just follow that, that's not anywhere close good enough to what God wants. That's,
that's minimum just getting by. Way up here is where it needs to be. Now, within the law, yes,
and so the work that I've done that most seems to reflect this is the stuff that we've had with,
that we talked about earlier, with slaves. So in the Book of the Covenant, there are only two
kinds of slaves that are discussed. One is a male debt slave and the other is a female sex slave.
Now, that is not exclusive. It doesn't mean that those were the only things that were out there,
those just happened to be the two that are mentioned. However, in Deuteronomy 15,
the author of Deuteronomy picks up on that particular passage and really revises it in
a way that seems to eliminate sex slavery for Hebrew women. And he does it in this way.
The Exodus passage says, for a man, you'll do this and this and this and this and this,
and then for a sex slave, you do this and this and this. In Deuteronomy, it comes along and it
says, for a man, you'll do this and this and this and this, which is actually itself an improvement
on the Book of the Covenant. So in the Book of the Covenant, when a debt slave is done with his duty,
you just kick him out, kick him to the curb, he's done, that's it. In Deuteronomy, it says,
you don't just kick him to the curb, you give him lots of gifts and you give him stuff so that he
can basically start his life up again and hopefully doesn't end up in debt slavery once again.
And then it has this one little line that I love, it says, and for the Hebrew woman, do the same.
And so what he's done there, by paralleling, I think, the Exodus passage, he is saying,
all that stuff that you read in read in Exodus, no longer valid, we're not doing that anymore.
For women, they are just debt slaves, they are no longer sex slaves and you need to treat them
just like you would treat a man. When you get over into Leviticus, it takes an interesting turn
because there, it just flat out says, you shouldn't have any other Israelites who are slaves.
You're going to treat them like what I call beholden wage earners. So they owe you money
and they're going to come to work for you, but they're not your slave. They are still
classified as a free person until they work off their debt or in the case of Leviticus,
until the Jubilee comes, the 50th year freedom cycle. And so there,
they've eliminated slavery altogether for the Hebrews. Now, again, you can still have foreign
chattel slaves, but you're never going to get rid of foreign chattel slaves until you get rid of
your own slavery problem. When your own people are being enslaved, you're never going to consider
everybody else. And so you seem to see this trajectory where they're headed towards at least
theoretically and no slavery culture, because they're starting to elevate the status of everybody
who's in debt. And if I could pause you for just a second, Jay, because this is not, this was not a
unique thing to the nation of Israel, right? At least during this period. Because, and again,
if you guys are interested in this, this is such a great little book that your advisor put out.
But like, the Greeks do this, and I can't remember, like Greek law is not my thing, but
they start talking about this, doing away with debt slavery for the citizenry. And so, you know,
when you talk about being progressive with respect to the other ancient Eastern laws,
I think that's, and even as you say, within the older Israel legal tradition,
I think that's really important to recognize and to recognize that this is something that
seems to be going along with the time. Sorry, my dog is now jumping up on me. But I think that's
important to point out. He's asking for a jubilee right now. I think you have him as a slave.
You know, just real quick, this is the sort of thing that kind of scares me, because in like 100
years, if society has moved past this and said, oh, my God, well, how like you can't enslave
a dog, look back at us and be like those animals. And what if we find out that trees are like
sentient beings, you know, or your grass, I just mowed the lawn today. Anyway, what a horrible
human I am. But I actually actually have something that I wanted to throw out there. I do think
the way that civilization's heading, I think we'll look back in 1000 years and think
throwing people in jail cells for 23 hours a day and giving them one hour. We'll think that
that's Neanderthal. We'll think that's so outdated because hopefully, fingers crossed, this is my
prediction, mental health and our development in science will help us understand how to treat and
give people proper rehabilitation in particular issues that they go through mentally. They're
upbringing. Who knows what might be the cause of the trauma or whatever it might be. Anyway,
I think we'll look back and go, man, throwing people in cages, you know, as a form of discipline
to get them to rehabilitate. That was so ass backwards. Anyway, I just, that's my guess.
Jay is like going hurrah as the former defense attorney, right? You're like, yes. Absolutely.
I wouldn't say that. I just, I mean, I don't think, I think, I think the problem there is
theories on punishment because we have conflicting theories within our country, right? So,
on one hand, this theory about rehabilitation, and then there's just flat out punitiveness on the
other hand. And so, that's, that's part of our debate right now. I don't know. That's your area.
Yeah. I'm just saying, I wonder if our methods are outdated, just like we're talking about the
Bible. Like, well, it depends on what you want to do. Do you just want to punish people for bad
behavior or are you trying to correct the behavior for the future? That's, that's the question. If
your idea is just to punish people, then putting them in cages for 23 hours a day pretty well solves
that problem. If it's rehabilitation, yeah, that's probably not the best method for that.
Right. Thank you. So, okay, let's, let's, let's wrap things up here because honestly,
we must do this again. You're something else, Jay. I'm not kidding. No,
I'm serious. Like, for a person who openly, and, you know, we respect your faith. We respect what
you believe. I know when I was a Christian, exactly how I felt, but I was so extreme. I didn't have,
you know, obviously, I wasn't flexible on my understanding of things. And, and so, I respect
you for being as honest in your approach on how it is and what it was like. Because for anyone who
wants to talk about the Bible and they want to try and defend, oh no, there wasn't, there wasn't
talking about slavery. And you go to the other ancient Near Eastern law codes and the other
situations, you're going to find it. But all of a sudden, they run to the Bible and they're shy
of it and they want to make it mean something completely different than the reality that we
discussed today. So, I cannot say anything but thank you. And Dr. Josh, do you have anything
else you'd like to say in specific? Let's do this again. Yeah, I'm just super excited, Jay. It's
been great when exactly as I expected that it would. And you're wonderful, wonderful. So, thank
you. Thanks, Jay. I want to give you the opportunity actually to, what would you,
you're speaking to someone out there who's a Christian, okay? Don't worry about the
skeptics. Those guys, those, they could stay behind me and Josh, okay? They're all hopeless.
Yeah, they're all hopeless. You're all going to hell. So, those. They can't ground their
ultimate grounding of foundation for epistemic. Sorry. Get out of here with that, Darth Dawkins.
Anyway, yeah, it's an inside joke. So, Jay, you're talking to a Christian who is afraid.
They've been told, they've been watching the Christians on YouTube for a long time.
They see these Christians who are standing up and honestly, they're only becoming more of an
embarrassment because they're trying, they're setting up a strawman or they're creating a
false dichotomy. They're doing all sorts of stuff to try and make it what it's not and they're not
hitting it head-on. What would be your advice to someone? You're talking to, you know, Michael Jones,
you're talking to the top Apologist Christians who want to make it not mean the ugliness that it
really was in reality compared to our morality that we see today, the way that we live in society and
how we view things, if you will, on a normal day-to-day. What would you say to them? What's
your encouragement to them, if you will? Well, it's the same encouragement that I would give.
I would give to a skeptic, quite frankly. It's just be fair and honest with the evidence.
You know, postmodernism has taught us anything. It's that we're all bringing biases and we're
bringing slants to the information. I'm bringing it. You're bringing it. Dr. Josh is bringing it.
We're all bringing slants to it. Not me. Not me. Well, maybe not Megan, but you are.
Yeah, right. Definitely not.
So the first thing is to understand what that is, right? So when it comes to something that's biblical,
I'm going to approach, you know, I'm going to be approaching it from the position of a believer.
You're going to be approaching it from a position of a skeptic. Now, whether or not we want to admit
it or not, that means that I'm going to be looking for solutions that work. You're going to be
looking for solutions where things don't work, all right? You can't get rid of those,
but you have to acknowledge those. And you have to be willing to say, all right, let me
set that aside, take on the other hat. And how would I make a strong argument that this doesn't
work? Or for you, how do I make a strong argument that this works and do the best that you can?
I mean, this is, could I answer that? I was going to ask you.
You could answer that when you get done. I'd like to have your thoughts on the best
argument on the skeptic side. Even if you want to do it all fair.
You know, just be fair with the evidence. Try to work with it from the other perspective,
because if you don't really understand the other perspective, you don't really understand
their argument or what they're doing or saying. And so that would be thing one.
Thing two, again, if I'm talking to a Christian again, when it comes to some of the ugly issues
that we talked about, I would go back and I would say, what does Jesus say about your heart?
What does Paul say about your heart? What does Ezekiel and Jeremiah and Isaiah say about
your nature? Because your nature is inherently evil and you know it. And so to somehow ascribe
to these ancient folks that that was not their nature makes absolutely no sense.
And I think you need to reevaluate that. Because if you're not understanding that,
then you're not understanding the grace that you claim to believe in for somebody forgiving you
for your sense. Does that make sense? Yeah, definitely from a Christian. Yes, it's like.
If I'm talking to a Christian, that's how I'm talking to them about these issues.
Now, the third thing I would say, and this is not something that's unique to Christians,
I think it's true across the board. I don't think we yet have a full grasp on the interpretive methods
that the Israelites were using when they are writing and rewriting their own texts. I think
they're still doing stuff that we don't quite understand altogether. And so there needs to be
some latitude given to instead of the dogmatic, necessarily dogmatic, this is what they're saying
and this is what they mean and I know it. There needs to be a little bit of humility to say,
yeah, I'm not quite sure what they're doing here with that. For a Christian, I'll go back to this,
the place that I go to is Matthew. Matthew says, you know, he quotes Hosea 111 and talks about
my son being called out of Egypt and he's referring to Jesus. Hosea 111 is not referring to Jesus.
Hosea 111 is talking about the original Exodus event narrative, however you want to catch that out.
So Matthew's doing something that he thinks is legitimate to interpret that text.
Nobody's figured it out yet. And so I take that, move that back a few centuries and say,
you may not be understanding exactly what those earlier Israelites were doing with their texts
either. They may be doing something that we just haven't quite figured out and maybe you need to
show a little humility and say, this is what I think, but I can't be sure. Interesting. Okay,
last thing then. This is really, yeah. So your best, if you were to take a skeptics hat
and put a skeptics hat on, how would you, what would be your strongest skeptical response to
everything we discussed today? I mean, what would you, as a skeptic, try to say? If I were a skeptic,
so yeah, I think I would touch on some of the stuff that we've talked about today and then maybe
some of the stuff that we haven't talked about that I'm not qualified to talk about, which is
archaeology. So within the law codes, you can certainly make the argument, there's nothing new
here. The early law code, the Book of the Covenant and even into Deuteronomy, those just look like
everything else. There's some tweaks that are different and that are probably unique to
Israelite culture, but they're just drawing on the ancient Near Eastern legal milieu for most of
this stuff. Holiness code is a little bit different still because it is really unlike the other stuff
and that one looks like, again, society and development. Something's happened,
the scribes, the authors are responding to something that has happened specifically to the
Israelite people or the Israelite culture and they've generated that. So again, it's something
that's just relevant for them because it's done in response to a national trauma.
So that's what I would say if I were trying to put on my skeptics hack. Now the flip side,
like I said, is archaeology. I'm sure Dr. Josh has talked about things like lack of evidence for
the Exodus and there's some evidence obviously for a united monarchy, but the real substantial
evidence in Israel doesn't really show up until the 9th century BCE when we start to get
the kingdom of the Samaria with Omri and some of these other later kings.
So there's something going on in the 10th and 11th century, but we don't really have any archaeological
evidence that would necessarily substantiate the biblical account. So between that and
the Exodus, those would be the things that I would focus on if I were playing the other side.
Well said, Jay. Well said. I guess I'll make two statements just real quick. I'm putting on the
believer's hat. This is just me guessing off the top right now. I would say, number one,
to explain the conundrum of why society is that way. Of course, we take the approach that humans
are evil continually and their heart is evil. This is what we find in the Bible. But I would also
say like why would God even utilize this and not abolish these things as we hear a lot of skeptics
say. I would say, well, this is just my opinion and I could be wrong about this, is that either one
of two things, God's doing this and I just don't understand why he's even allowing us to do these
things. He has a plan or two open theism, some form of it, suggesting that he's kind of working
along with mankind and that this is why society evolves. Its morality continues to progress,
if you will, if I can use the term, is because God is continuously moving with man. But that would
go against a lot of the texts that I've read that just don't quite, you know, it just depends what
you're reading and where you're reading at. So I guess that would be kind of my, if I was really
trying to swallow the pill because I was a hardcore Calvinist and I was like a ridiculously
hardcore Calvinist who just accepted God, predestined people for hell and, you know,
predestined, like that level of Calvinism because there's various forms. But I could never, even
though I said these words, I could never actually swallow the pill and the reality could never
sink in. So if I was to really accept it, those were probably the two approaches I would try to
take. And that was just, those are my two comments. But Dr. Josh, did you have any comments you want
to make? No, I mean, I think it's just really important, like Jay said, to be fair. And what I
really wrestle with, and I address this in the new book that's coming out, is what you can't do is
start with your conclusion. Now, as Jay said, we all have this bias. And that bias comes from the
fact that we've, we've either started with our conclusion and worked through the evidence and
reinforced our conclusion. Or like in my case, and I'm sure, obviously, I know this, there are
lots of people that are like me, on both sides, that were on one side, and were confronted with
the evidence and kicking and screaming went through it and went, Oh, fine, you know, and ended up a
skeptic or ended up a Christian, right? And what, what we have to try to do is say, we come up to
something like the date of the composition of the book of Daniel, for example, we have to come to
that and say, okay, like as much as we can, let's try to staleman the other, you know, persons or,
you know, groups position. Why is it that they argue for a sixth century date? Or why is it that
they argue for a second century date? And that's the only fair way to do that, right? So I feel
like right now, I could build a case for a sixth century date. I disagree with it because I think
as I build it, I'm thinking, well, but here are the reasons that that doesn't work. But
you know, I could, I could point out, well, you know, the word son doesn't have to mean son,
it can mean grandson and Semitic. And so Bouchazar doesn't have to be, you know, Nebuchadnezzar's son,
it could be his grandson, you know, and then I can anticipate the skeptic's response and then I
can anticipate the Christian's response. And so, but, but that's the only way really to do this,
is to try to, to try to steal man the other party's position and then, and then really engage with
it. And I think not beginning with the conclusion, and then finding the evidence that you need.
So that means with the law, for example, being honest about, okay, yeah, these, these are the
bad things that we see and they are bad. And, but here are some good things that we see. Here are
some things that are like, Deuteronomy 15, Leviticus 25, setting, you know, setting the, the
debt slave free, but with a whole bunch of provisions. So you have to be honest about that
and say that's, that's pretty, that's pretty neat, you know, in, in, in that sense, doesn't
do away with all the bad stuff, but we have to acknowledge that, that that's good. Now,
is there a rationale behind that? I think so, but you still have to say that that's, you know,
that's, that's something that's in development. So anyway, I just think that's really important
to recognize, don't start with a conclusion, start with the evidence, as much as you can,
and try to hold those biases in check at least temporarily, so that you can honestly engage
with the data. Thank you. Thank you so much, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, go check out
Dr. Josh's website. This is Megan's website. Megan's website. Look how pretty she is. Look,
if you scroll down, I'm all the way at the bottom. You don't want to go down there, don't
you? We're not even going to look at you right now, man. I don't blame you. I don't blame you.
I'll blame you. And this is Megan's website. Megan's YouTube. Make sure you hit the bell
for Megan. I know I said Josh in the beginning. You're wrong. It's okay. Yeah, I was wrong.
And these books that were written by the spirit of Megan. Yes, no doubt. Josh. And
yeah, get the books. It's down in the description, you guys. And Jay, is there any particular
things we can plug? How do people read some of your material? Do you have anything out there
in particular that we can? No, not yet. There's some stuff that's in the pipeline that's going
to be coming out. We're all very, very anxious to see it. FYI. So hurry the hell up.
I got to finish a dissertation. That's what I mean. I have to overcome the fact that my wife
wanted to get puppies this year. And so dealing with that too. Well, when you do, we will make
sure to put that down in the description and follow up episodes that we do in the future.
This was fantastic. I know if you're watching this, you definitely appreciated this conversation
for sure, especially if you're somebody who's just wanting candid honesty and just here's
what the facts are and how you deal with them is going to be up to you. So ladies and gentlemen,
make sure you guys don't forget to subscribe, check out the description. And eventually,
of course, we'll get Jay's material in there. Don't forget, in case you have cognitive dissonance.
