What is the Apostle Paul talking about when he mentions adoption in Romans 9 and Galatians 4?
Also, the Noahide Laws. Where do they come from? Why do the Jews come up with this idea
that all universally humanity has a law that they should live by according to their God and their
books? Also, Judging of the Nations. When is the Judging of the Nations? What is the Judging of
the Nations? What's the ordeal happening here? And how does this relate to Cattel Berthelot's work?
Wait till you see this episode. It is in the vein of everything that I hold dear
on my research. I mean, it really is necessary to understand these things. Most people take for
granted how these things happen while the New Testament says it. So I believe it. But they
don't really know how and why these developments take place. Changes in history that really
change the whole face of Western civilization. Stay tuned and let us know what you think of the
episode down below.
We are MythVision. Welcome back to MythVision Podcast. I'm excited about today's show. The last
episode that I did was amazing with Dr. Cattel Berthelot. And I hope I'm trying to pronounce
your name properly here because it's French. And I'm just not the best at pronouncing words. I must
admit. Welcome back. Thank you. You pronounced it very well. I do try. And for those who don't
know who she is, she's a professor at the CNRS organization and a member of Paul Albert Fever
Research Center at Ex Marseille University in France. Her field is in the history of Judaism
in Greco-Roman world with a particular focus on Jewish literature in Greek, the Dead Sea Scrolls,
and rabbinic literature. Her research includes, interest includes, the reception history of
biblical text, various issues connected to the Dead Sea Scrolls, the reception of Greek ethical
and political ideas in Jewish thought, the impact of Hellenistic royal models,
and Roman imperial ideology upon Jewish institutions and thoughts. And more generally,
the interactions between Jews and non-Jews in Greco-Roman world. Her PhD was on the accusations
of misanthropy against the Jews in antiquity and the Jewish responses to these charges.
And her books include, in search of the Promised Land, the Hasmonean dynasty between
biblical models and Hellenistic diplomacy, the gift of the land and the fate of the Canaanites
and Jewish thought, and Philanthropia Judaica, supplements to the journal for the study of
Judaism. But the latest and the greatest is this book right here in everyone. Seriously,
I'm mind blown by the content in here. I did know that this kind of material existed,
and she put it so well in this book. It's Jews and the Roman rivals,
and this is all about pagan Rome's challenge to Israel. I love the cover,
getting straight into the, to the numismatics for people. Yeah, you must have enjoyed writing this
for everybody. This is quite an interesting educational book that you have here, and it
delves into this love-hate relationship, it seems. Competitive, yet friendly, yet opponent. It's
this tug of war between the Jews and the Romans, and you wrote about so much detail that Dill's
in the areas that I'm actually trying to explore is, in a sense, how did, and kind of the like
blunt question is like, how did non-Jews really fall in love with the God of Israel? Like, really,
how does that happen? And there's a lot of key playing, key roles in history that cause the
development of this to start happening in history. And it's not just, I think Christians kind of
take for granted, they don't really know the process, if that makes sense. And you kind of
spell it out here of how the Jewish law and the Jewish God and the nations find a way, especially
in Rome, find a way to bridge a gap. And the New Testament seems to walk that bridge. So,
anyway, welcome back. Thank you for having me back.
Thank you. I know I'm a mouthful. You just say, Derek, just let me take over, D. I got this.
I know you do. Do you want me to go ahead and jump into questions?
Go ahead.
Awesome. So, our first question today is, how does Paul's adoption theology with respect to
Israelites fit into more traditional Jewish thought, in light of the fact that this concept
seems to be more Roman and less biblical, strictly speaking? And the example we could give is the
Romans 9, example where he talks about adoption pertains to Israel, according to the flesh.
Yes. So, we must make a distinction between the legal notion of adoption
and the metaphor of adoption. So, let me explain. The legal notion of adoption is
present in Mesopotamian law, in Greek law, in Roman law, but not in biblical law,
and not even in later rabbinic law, for that matter. So, it is very striking that the Jews
lived in a world where the notion of adoption existed, but they did not include it in their own
legislation. So, it is absent as a legal notion. The practice of adoption does not exist in the
Hebrew Bible, but on the other hand, we have the metaphor of adoption somehow present in the notion
that the children of Israel are also God's children. And if you allow me, I would like to
quote a passage from the book of Jeremiah, which I think illustrates this point very clearly.
So, please let me find it. So, Jeremiah 3, verse 19, it says, as it's God speaking,
I thought how I would set you among my children and give you a pleasant land,
the most beautiful inheritance of all the nations. And I thought you would call me
my father and would not turn from following me. So, in this text, we see that we are not speaking
about God begetting children, as some gods in the Greco-Roman pantheon, for example, would.
We were speaking about a kind of adoption, like God says, I will set you among my children,
and you will inherit. And this is exactly what adoption is about. It's about, you know, taking
someone who is not your natural child, your biological child, setting him or her among your
children and granting him or her the privilege of inheritance, of being a heir. And this is very,
very central both in this passage in Jeremiah and also in the New Testament in Paul's writings,
when he speaks about the adoption of Gentiles as children of God, he will say that they will
also become heirs. You see, there's really functions in the same way. So, what I want to
emphasize is the notion that the Gentiles believe in Christ become the adopted children of God
is in itself not fundamentally new. It is a biblical idea. What is new is Paul's use of the
vocabulary of adoption, reothecia in Greek, which is the technical term, like the use of
really the technical legal terms to describe this phenomenon, which in the Bible is a metaphor,
and there is no term for adoption in the Hebrew Bible. It doesn't exist. In modern Hebrew,
there is a term. It's the term Imoots, but it doesn't exist in biblical Hebrew because this
was not a reality that the ancient Israelites were confronted with. So, Paul is using a biblical
metaphor, but he's using some very technical vocabulary from the Greco-Roman world to describe
in very specific terms that this is really an adoption. What remains like, you know, suggested
in the Hebrew Bible, becomes very clear in Paul. And I suppose that it is not a coincidence that it
is only with two Roman-era Jewish authors, Paul and Philo, that we encounter for the first time
the technical vocabulary of adoption under the pen of a Jewish author. You don't have any Jewish text
that uses the technical vocabulary of adoption before Philo and Paul, roughly contemporaries.
First century CE, Roman context. So, this is why I argue that it is also because they were
living in this Roman context where adoption was so common and also so prominent in the
imperial house, like because emperors adopted their successor very often. It is because it was so
prominent in the Roman context that it came, that I suppose it became so natural for them
to use this kind of vocabulary and to think in such terms. Wow. Yes. So, if I may, just for the
lay person who's trying to grab ahold of this, it's, I think that we forget, like when we're
reading this Bible from where I was, you know, I was reading it like this, the Bible interprets
the Bible is the methodology that people use. And it's really not always a good methodology,
because what we're actually trying to understand is the author of the New Testament,
in their world that they live in, they see the reality on the ground around them,
and they believe that the Bible is a living document. So, now they're searching their Bible
to see it conform to the reality they live in. So, here is around them. For example,
we see this happening, the rabbis you talk about in chapter five of this wonderful book,
I can't tell people enough to not go get this book. I'm not getting, I'm dead serious. This is so good.
Trust me, you want to read it. But in that, in that chapter, you talk about the rabbis who were
like, well, this non-Jew wants to come in and say our father Abraham. And he's like, you can't say
that, you can't say that because you're not one of us. But then another one comes in and says, no,
no, no, no, no, no, no. It does, it does not say that Abraham will be the father of many goyim.
He's your father, you can say it. And it's like, whoa, you've, you've taken a modern example
the Jews are taking around them of non-Jews wanting to join. And they kind of look and find
secrets there or find the interpretation there. Maybe secrets isn't the right word, but it's like,
it was there all along. Don't you see it? But really, they never saw it before. And now they see
it in the context now. So maybe this adoption thing didn't matter for a long period of time.
And then they see that, well, you know, he didn't birth us. So how are we his children? Ah, well,
we had to be adopted. And they see examples in the Roman era of adoption. And Paul might be using
that. Is that an example? And Philo and Paul might be seeing that as an example.
So we have two different things here. We have adoption by God, and we have adoption as Abraham's
children. So when we find both notions in Paul, in Paul's writings, okay, in Galatians and in Romans,
in these two epistles, we have the two types of adoption by God, by Abraham. So why do I say that
again, in the case of Abraham, in spite of the fact that he was dead, and of course, could that adopt
anybody. And this is all like legal fictions and imagination. But we are trying to understand the
way they thought about these things, like how they reflected. And not, we are not trying to argue
that that Abraham was really adopting the converts to Judaism, of course. So the fact is that, as
you mentioned, there are different voices in rabbinic literature. And rabbinic texts do not
necessarily agree with each other. And so it is only in the Jerusalem Talmud that we really
find this notion that converts to Judaism or can be considered as Abraham's children.
Because of this verse in Genesis 17, that says that Abraham will be called the father of
multitude of nations. Now the word Goim in Hebrew, which is translated by nations,
has a different meaning in Paul's letter or in the Jerusalem Talmud, which is individual.
Individuals who are non-Jews and who can be considered as Abraham's children, despite their
non-Jewish origins, their non-Israeli pedigree, because implicitly, they have been adopted
as Abraham's children. And why can we speak of adoption, specifically and not merely
of these converts as kind of spiritual children of Abraham, like in a kind of vaguer way?
Because there is the issue of inheritance again. In the Jerusalem Talmud, the context is whether
the convert can say some blessings, which have a biblical origin, and it's the blessing about
concerning the first fruits that someone brings to the temple. And then the person says,
Blessed are you, O God of our ancestors, Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, to whom you promised the lands,
and so on and so forth. So obviously, if you're not a descendant of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob,
how can you say this blessing? And this is where the issue of the convert as a child of Abraham
comes in. And so in order to allow the person to say, God of our fathers or God of our ancestors,
despite the fact that, biologically speaking, this person is not a descendant from Abraham,
Isaac and Jacob. Now, obviously, when the rabbis say that the convert is a child of Abraham,
they don't say that he or she is a child of Isaac and Jacob. So you will notice that it's not exactly
the same. But at least it's a descendant of Abraham. And for Paul, this is what matters most,
not because in itself it matters for Paul that converts would be considered children of Abraham,
but only because of the meaning of the status of child of Abraham, which means that you are
considered as heir of the promises that God made to Abraham. And again, believe me,
the issue of adoption is crucial because it explains the emphasis on inheritance and on being
heirs, which comes again and again, both in files, writings, letters, and in the passage that I
mentioned in the Jerusalem Talmud. This is what is the crucial issue. Who is the heir? Who inherits?
So in Paul's writing is God's promises, God's blessings, it can be salvation, it can be the
Holy Spirit, it can be many things. But the question is, who receives the inheritance?
And so thanks to the idea of adoption, the Gentiles finally received the inheritance,
despite not being the genealogical or biological descendants of Abraham.
So yeah, that gets into the different models that we find develop throughout time. So my second
question in the same vein is, was Paul insinuating that fleshly Israel is missing out on their
entitlement or their inheritance to the adoption that properly belonged to them since they fell
to attain righteousness through the law? Now, I know you're not a Pauline expert. I want to lay
that out there for our scholars. You are very good friends with some, so you're aware of this.
But can you possibly give us your thoughts on this in particular?
Well, first, I think the obvious response to this question is that it is not because they have
failed to observe the law, that they would lose their status as adopted children of God or something
like that. Because from Paul's perspective, nobody can be justified, nobody can be found
righteous on the basis of just observing the law. This is what Paul writes very clearly in
Romans that nobody can be justified according to the law. So if they have lost something,
if they have lost their status as adopted children of God, it is not because of the law in itself
being bad Jews, if you want, or not being able to practice the commandments as God wants them to.
It's because they didn't have faith in Christ. This is what Paul intends to say. It's not on the
basis of the law, but on the basis of the faith that they are found wanting, that they are not
fulfilling their calling, their vocation as the children of Abraham. Abraham had faith.
This is something Paul emphasizes again and again. Abraham had faith, faith in God, of course.
And now the challenge for the descendants of Abraham is to have faith as their ancestor had,
but this time, faith in Christ, more specifically. This is Paul's message, basically.
So as a matter of fact, it is true that to some extent, Paul is redrawing the boundaries of
the children of Abraham, because he redefines the children of Abraham, not as those who are his
genealogical descendants, but as those who are either his genealogical descendants or not,
but who have in common to have faith in Christ. So you see, now the question arises,
and I know you're going to ask me that. What happens with those Israelites, those descendants,
those genealogical descendants of Abraham who do not believe in Christ? Are they still considered
children of Abraham? And this is where Paul's writings can actually be read as meaning that,
no, they are not really any more the children of Abraham, or more precisely, they are still
his genealogical descendants, but that doesn't matter so much for Paul.
Wow, yeah, because that in Romans 9, when he's making his argument right after this part,
we're talking about the adoption of sons according to the flesh, and then he wants to point out
it's about the promise and faith, and he's talking about Jacob, the promise, right? The promise was
on Jacob. I love, but Esau, I hated, you know, like this is like, so there's certain people,
of course, he gets into predestination and some interesting things, I think, but
Paul's argument is very, it's an interesting different way of thinking than I think modern
people are thinking in, and this is why I have experts like you coming in and trying to sift
through this information, but I think it's quite interesting that he is saying, yeah,
if you're, it doesn't matter where you're from, if we have faith in Abraham, that's what matters.
So Paul's doing something different, completely different from Philo or Josephus on this matter,
like really, really different, but yeah, I just, I knew you would want to answer that in particular,
and I'm glad you kind of specified that. So our third question is, if adoption is Paul's model
for defining Israel, oh, that's right, one more thing before I read this, I spoke with Dr. Zvibn
Dhorbeni, and he wrote on the Lost Tribes visual, really interesting book, and we got to Paul,
you know, he said, ah, look, I'm not an expert on Paul, you know, you know, leave me alone, you
know, and I'm like, I can't leave you alone, I have to ask you, and he's like, okay, listen, Paul's,
Paul is doing something different. He is redefining Israel, and that he said point blank.
So there's some people I communicate with who think that like, this is supposed to be genealogical
only or something, and he's like, no, no, no, he's redefining like every expert I run across
is saying the same thing. And I guess they see it, if it walks like a duck and it talks like a duck,
then it's a duck, wake up people. My third question, if adoption is Paul's model for defining Israel,
does this mean Paul conceived of fleshly Israel as not being true Israel because they rejected
the gospel and lacked faith in Christ? So you kind of already answered this, but I'm going to go
ahead and just read out the options here in other words, because I think I must emphasize something
important right from the start. Okay. I think there is a difference between redefining who the
children of Abraham are and redefining who Israel is. On the whole, I think that Paul is not redefining
Israel, even though one could discuss one or two verses, which are ambiguous, but I think on the
whole he tends to say, no, Israel remains Israel, but he redefines the children of Abraham. And as
you said, if we look at genealogy, Abraham had many children outside Israel. So this is not the
genealogical link that matters. It never was the only thing that mattered, because there was an
election right from the start between Ismael and Isaac, between Esau and Jacob. So you see,
every time there was an election, and here Paul uses this as an argument to say, well,
God is doing what he wants. You may call it predestination, or you may just call it God's
freedom. And we have to think about Paul's context and Paul as a Pharisee originally, initially.
So we can imagine that that Paul grew up with a vision of Israel, like, you know, Israel,
they are the children of Abraham in there. And it's a perfect coincidence, like,
or maybe I don't know what he thought about apostate Israelites, maybe or renegades, but
in theory, let's say, the children of Abraham, the children of the promise, they are Israel.
They are God's people. And that's it. Now comes the Christ event and the big changes
in Paul's life. And suddenly, he has to rethink his own vision of things. And he realizes that
Gentiles start to be accepted by God and to become, you know, saved just as Jews
could be saved for Christ. So he redefines what the notion of children of Abraham,
and to some extent, even maybe the notion of people of God. But it seems to me that the notion of
Israel remains in Paul's writings. Like, Israelites are still Israelites. But children of Abraham,
it's a different story, because it's not enough to be an Israelite. And I mean that
genealogically, it's not enough. You also have to have faith.
Yeah, this makes sense. This is a new one. But I think it is an important one, because it,
when we discuss the issue of substitution of the church substitutes itself to Israel,
is Paul already, you know, opening the doors to this kind of
theology of substitution in the church? That's a big question for exegetes and theologians.
And I think it's like half, half, like on the one hand, no. But on the other hand,
yes, because he does say that, you know, it doesn't matter if you're born a Jew,
for the issue of salvation, it doesn't matter. You have to believe in Christ.
It doesn't matter if you're born a Jew or born a Gentile, what matters is your faith.
It's not your origins. It's not your pedigree. This has been a question that I've always thought,
too, is like, when did replacement theology? We call it replacement theology. Some people don't
like that. Some people call it, what's the other technical term? There's another technical term
for it. But either way, the church becomes Israel. And while I see Paul still keep Israel,
Israel and still keep the ethne, ethne, you know, like he doesn't want them to be considered Jews.
He doesn't want them to be considered Israel in that sense. It opened the door for what we see
as replacement theology, because he clearly is doing, like you said, he's kind of tearing down
the identity markers genealogically. And they matter to many Jews, but he is opening up these
things. So that's how I saw the development of what we call church replacement theology.
But in that same chapter that we've been dealing with in Romans 9, there's a contrast in Romans 9,
30 and 31, where he talks about Israel that tried to attain righteousness to the law,
and the Gentiles who did not have the law who attained righteousness. There's a contrast between
Israel and these ethne or the Gentiles, if you will, the goyim, they are contrasted and always are.
You know, that gets into that weird place where Paul says, you who were once Gentiles who are
still Gentiles, it's like, what, what do you mean? So he is definitely still keeping genealogical
boundaries and saying, it doesn't matter in Christ, but he's still kind of calling you,
hey, if you're a Greek, I'm gonna call you a Greek. You're not this now. So it's an
interesting point you bring up. Yeah, absolutely. This is very important. Thank you for for adding
this, because yeah, he, I think that according to Paul, Israel remains Israel, and the Gentiles
can become children of Abraham, but they were not going to become Israelites. And that's the point.
They do not become Jews, and they don't have to become Jews in order to become
children of God or even children of Abraham. That's the point precisely of Paul's
theological thinking. They do not become Israel, but they become children of Abraham,
and most importantly, children of God. And that's the goal. But they do not become Israel.
They remain Gentiles. There is no braying of, you know, of the ethnic categories here. And when
he says there is no more Jew and non-Jew slave and free, et cetera, of course, he doesn't mean to say
that these categories do not exist anymore. It just means to say that this doesn't matter for
salvation, which is a specific point, but he doesn't say that, you know, these differences of
cease to exist. Right. Yeah, because then why is he teaching, like, on obedience to, in Romans 13,
obedience to the law of the land? Or when he turns around and says stuff like,
masters be good to your slaves, slaves be good to your masters. What do you mean? I thought there's
no more masters, and I thought there's no more slaves. Like, it makes no sense if you take that
approach. And husbands and wives, et cetera. Exactly. My next question is, did first century
Jews believe that Gentiles, with no connection to the God of Israel, were under some form of
noahide law or natural law? And I'm going to read out these A, B, C, D options under this,
because this is the idea, did Gentiles sin? Were they guilty of sin? They weren't given the law. So,
A, what was the normative idea of the standard to which God held Gentiles accountable for their sin?
B, what was constituted sin for a non-Jew since they were presumably not bound by the full extent
of the Mosaic law? C, what would Jews or would Jews object to Gentiles working on the Sabbath
and eating pork, for example? And D, presumably they believed God would judge and condemn Gentiles
for a major, for major violations like murder and adultery, but in what sense specifically were
Gentiles under God's law and in need of forgiveness or redemption? That's a lot. I don't know if I
need to reread some of these as we go. No, that's fine. Let's start. Let's do it. So, the general
answer is yes. Yes, clearly Jewish authors in the first century CE and even before
considered that Gentiles lived under some kind of, call it natural law, call it no hide law,
some kind of divine obligations, I mean, some kind of law that was God given,
God established, if you prefer. Now, if we, I would like to just say a few words on the
notion of no hide law. No hide laws in the parole or no hide commandments is really a
specifically rabbinic notion and we can return to that later and explain what it is exactly.
But if you look at Genesis 9, the story of the flood and what happened after the flood with
Noah and his descendants, you see that in that chapter, you find the commandments not to commit
murder, for example, and also the commandment not to eat the blood of an animal. So, and obviously,
then in the famous scene of Ham, Noah's son went to the tent where his father was asleep, drunk,
and he sees the nakedness of his father and this is sharply criticized by the biblical author.
So, you see that there are some explicit commandments like not to murder, but there are
also some kind of implicit notions of what is good and wrong, what is a proper moral behavior
and what isn't. So, all along in the biblical text, you have this even implicit notion that
people know what is good and bad, what they are supposed to do and what they are not supposed to
do. So, there is a kind of natural law, if you want to call it natural law, they don't use these
words, they don't use the term nature or natural. But there is certainly this idea that God will
judge all humankind, will judge nations, will judge individuals on the basis of how they have
acted in this world. And theft, murder, improper sexual relationships and idolatry,
and most idolatry is definitely a sin in already from the perspective of the biblical
authors. And this becomes very clear also later on also in Hellenistic Jewish literature,
where we have a sharp condemnation of idolatry in books like the book of the wisdom of Solomon,
also written at the beginning of the first century CE probably in Greek,
in Philo's writings for sure. I mean, everywhere it's obvious that they consider idolatry a major
sin. I mean, they consider that if you look at the created world, you are supposed to reach the
conclusion that there is only one God, that there is only this invisible God rules over everything.
And in a way, they found support for this belief in Greek philosophy, because some
Greek philosophical texts also speak about this kind of invisible God who created the world or
who is even beyond that. But anyway, who is not like the gods of Greek mythology, but it was
really the abstract God, the only true God in a way from a philosophical perspective.
So, yes, and they started to borrow notions like the notions of natural law, which was,
which comes from Greek philosophy, and especially the Stoics Stoicism. And they started to use it,
but under the pen of Jewish authors writing in Greek, when they speak about natural law,
they mean God's law. I mean, it's nothing like,
they never suppose that, or they never suggest that nature is something independent from God's
will and God's creation. So actually, in Philo, nature and God can be synonyms, really. So,
the law of nature is the divine law. Then the question then is, what is the relationship between
the natural law or the divine law that every human being is supposed to know intuitively,
somehow, and the positive law that is the Torah, the law given to Israel at Sinai?
What is the relationship? For Philo, for example, the Torah, the law of Moses, is the best written
expression of the natural law, which is an unwritten law from Philo's perspective.
So, there is a complete agreement between the laws of the Jews, the Mosaic law,
and the law of nature. There can be no contradiction from Philo's perspective.
And I said, answers all the, the, the, the sub questions that you have listed. So,
please remind me if there are additional aspects that we need to.
I think it would be good to get into the fifth question, which brings up some of the examples
here. Is there any clear application of natural law, Hellenistic, Romans, Judaism, and in Paul,
in a way that would be binding and enforceable by the God of Israel, universally, on all mankind?
For example, how does this cover, converge with the ideas of no hi to Mosaic law? So,
I guess, let's just ravage all into this for a second, because what you're discussing is there's
a transition that's taken place over the centuries under different people through the Hellenistic
Age down into the Roman era, probably, maybe even earlier with Second Temple Judaism in Persia,
that the Jews are seeing their God. We're doing a backup here for a second, because before that,
it's a tribal deity. In fact, if we go far enough back, and we want to get real technical,
Yahweh's takes over El Shaddai. Okay, so, you know, we go too far back, we're dealing with a tribal
God who, if we go back into like ancient Canaanite worship, you have El as the supreme God, and then
you have Yahweh, you serps El's throne, and potentially takes an Asherah, we're going way,
way back, and it's a tribal deity that eventually, over time, monotheism arises for whatever reasons,
right, many reasons, and this is the God who created all things. This is the God who actually
not only created us, but all nations, and out of all nations, he chose us as a special people,
and a special goyim, that eventually, that term itself takes on a new meaning.
But this God that is universally the God of all people, the whole world, in Hellenistic thought,
you could see Jews start to take natural law, probably Roman and Greek ideas here,
natural law, and combine them with their laws, probably while competing with these other nations
as well. But Christine Hayes, she talks about this in her, how divine is divine law, or something
like that lecture she's done, showing that the Jews equated natural law, the observations of
the world around us, as their law was the most, the perfect example of this, like you were describing.
So how are non-Israelites that were not given this law, this Torah written, guilty of sin?
You said idolatry, you gave us examples. Can you tell us some Jewish authors
other than Paul, and then maybe we can get into Paul?
Yeah, but as I said previously, from the point of view of the biblical authors, if we speak about
Jewish thought, Jewish perceptions of these issues, from the point of view of the author
of the book of Genesis, they are where commandments given to humankind prior to the revelation at Sinai.
So before Torah was given to Israel at Sinai, God gave laws already to humankind. This is
precisely the origin of the notion of Nahrheid commandments. The rabbis will go back to Genesis
9 and will read into this text, seven or sometimes even more commandments that were given
to Noah and his descendants by God. So there is not a notion of a humankind that would have been
without divinely law at all. It doesn't exist from a biblical and Jewish perspective.
Now, how could they know all the types of commandments, or like for example,
not to commit adultery or things like that? Well, they don't explain that so clearly,
I mean, but you can infer from what they write that they consider it
self-evident. It's like, you know, now I'm just saying what they perceive. We can
criticize their perspective later on if you want, but they perceive that as self-evident,
as like very common things that people in general would consider right. Like you are supposed to
have sexual relationships only with your wife, or you are not for a son or a daughter, or you are
not supposed to revolt against your parents, or things like that they would consider laws known
by everybody, and not just out of kind of natural order, but also as instituted by God in a way,
since it was God who instituted the cosmos, the creation. So these things were kind of engraved
into the natural order of creation. So if you ask me about Jewish Hellenistic authors, and they would
say, for example, that people have been endowed with reason, with a kind of rational faculty,
and so they can know God's law for a reason. Philo will go very far in this kind of reasoning.
He will argue that even the Sabbath, which is, you know, a very specific commandment given to
Israel, and something that is not self-evident from a purely rational perspective,
already from our perspective at different status than, you know, not to commit more murder, theft,
et cetera. Even the Sabbath for Philo, it's something that if people are rational, really,
they will embrace naturally. And he argues that many people among the nations have embraced the
practice of the Sabbath, and rightly so. And this contrasts with the rabbis' later vision of things,
where they will sharply differentiate between the Nawhid laws, the laws for
humankind as a whole, and the Sinaitic laws, the Mosaic laws, the Torah, which is only for Israel.
And the rabbis will say, Gentiles, non-Jews are forbidden to observe the Sabbath. It is absolutely
forbidden because the Sabbath belongs to Israel alone. So they will have a very, very different
understanding of the connection between the Torah and the general law of nature, if you want, or
laws for the nations than Philo. But they have moral standards for the non-Jews, which are the
Nawhid laws. So everybody has a law. There is nobody who would be outside a divine law and could
escape divine judgment because they would not have been under God's law in some way.
And this is what Paul writes at the beginning of Romans. He says, those who have lived without the
law, meaning the Mosaic law, will be judged without the Mosaic law. And those who have lived with the
Mosaic law will be judged according to the Mosaic law. Like everybody will be judged according to
his or her standards. But for everybody, there is a standard. For everybody, there is a law.
There are commandments that have been made known to humans. That's the point of view of the Jewish
sources. Yeah, it's really interesting hearing that. I mean, you might go, this is common sense,
people. Most Christians believe this already. And I guess the reason why I think this is a
very important message that we're conveying is I'm not sure everyone understands how that
process began. Like, in what way did it become something that developed into what we see today?
That's why I love having you explain these things because there are some people who think that the
only people who needed salvation, who sinned, are people who were given Israel's law. But I think
they also don't know that how Jews thought about Israel's law and natural law, that's missing. They
don't even know any of this. So they can't see how a non-Jew is guilty or needs to be saved. According
to, I use the term their mythology or their fiction of their belief or whatever, because I don't
personally conclude, I don't ontologically conclude their position, but what they believed about it
seems to be evident. It seems to me that the fog gets a very basic fact throughout the Bible,
which is that God punishes the wicked and God destroys the wicked. So in the Hebrew Bible, it is
more like a punishment that intervenes during this life. Like, the people from the flood generation,
they were killed in the flood, you know, later on with the development of beliefs in the afterlife,
it becomes a judgment that occurs in the afterlife after you're dead. And then, you know,
and even eventually it's a paradise and hell and things like that. But the idea is basically the
same. It is that if you're wicked, you're going to be punished by God, you're going to be destroyed
by God. So how could non-Jews or Gentiles not be in need of salvation? Everybody is in need of
salvation. If you're not a righteous person, you're threatened by death and destruction.
I mean, everybody is going to die, but by destruction, because God is punishing you.
So, yeah, everybody needs to be saved from a Jewish and biblical perspective even, you know.
As soon as you have a God who is a God of justice and punishes the wicked,
you're in a difficult position. Yeah, I can see it on your face. You're like, this is odd. I don't
know. I've never heard people saying that nobody would be guilty. I do think this is just that
it contradicts the biblical evidence so clearly. It makes it really intriguing. I mean, how could
people think that there is no need for salvation for Gentiles? I mean, read the Bible. They either
need to be saved or destroyed, right? As Paul Fredrickson talks about, you know, the prophecies,
some of her are good. Like, it's going to look good for you in the end. And then some of them are like,
uh, not so good. But isn't that the whole message of the Christian faith that salvation of death,
right? It's this whole promise to save you from death and all in Adam die. But all in Christ
be made alive. And so you'd be shocked to find out how people redefine Adam. They literally think
Adam is Israel. There's a whole bunch of like gymnastics to try and like make Adam doesn't
mean the father of all humanity. Like this is the kind of mindset, but there's not a single Jewish
writer that thinks that, right? All Jewish writers believe Adam is the father of all humanity, right?
Sure. It's difficult to read Genesis in a different way, actually. I mean, I know that you can have
all kinds of allegorical readings and reinterpret characters in a narrative in a completely different
way. They symbolize something else. Of course, Philo does that a lot. But still, no, they stick
to the meaning of Adam. Adam can symbolize many things, but they will never say that he's only
the father of Israel. I can't think of an ancient Jewish text that says that.
It's just good to know what the Jews believed about their own texts because we can do all the
interpretations we want to and have fun doing that and create all these ideas. But that is not
how the Jews themselves believed in these things. And I just want to at least accurately understand
the thoughts of people like Philo, people like Paul, people like Josephus, the rabbis, etc.
Like, how did Jews think about this even earlier? You know, all of that. So moving to my other
question here, this is more specific. Are the authors of Joel 3 and Psalm 9 making the same
distinction between Israel and the nations that God will judge? A, is the term nation synonymous
with non-Israelites in both examples? Or B, or might the psalmist be using the term nations more
broadly in the older sense of people? If God here is conceived of as judging all the nations
in totality, including Israel? C, is the psalmist hinting at... Maybe I need to take this slowly.
Do you want me to just ask one at a time or just go ahead and read them all?
Go ahead. I'm just hoping that everybody has read the Joel 3 and Psalm 9.
Well, it's on the screen. I'll make sure it's on the screen for them to see.
So is the psalmist hinting at some kind of eschatological universalism? D, is the author of
Matthew 25, 31 through 46, hinting at the same prophecy when the eschatological son of man, Jesus,
would sit on his throne and gather all nations, separating the goats from the sheep. Presumably
this is judgment, even though the author doesn't call it that. Or E, does this contrast or contradict
other references in the Gospels, Matthew 19, 28 through 29, verse Luke 22, 28 through 30,
to Jesus' prophecy that his disciples would sit on the thrones to judge the 12 tribes of Israel,
as opposed to judging the nation's Gentiles?
Yeah, it seems to me that Joel 3 is really envisioning the judgment of the nations, the
neighboring nations, that have hurt Israel or more precisely Judah. So these are really the
neighbors of Israel, like Adam and Egypt. It's not even all the nations. It's very specific.
And they are non-Israelite nations, and it's a collective. In the case of Psalm 9,
it is less clear. Obviously, they are not Israelites. They are foreigners, but you could argue,
maybe, that in Psalm 9, it's not completely clear whether we're dealing with nations like
collective groups or non-Jewish individuals or non-Israelite individuals.
There is another term. They both used the term Goim, but in Psalm 9, there is also the term
leu mim, which means peoples, which could then help us argue that Goim there can still refer to
peoples, not individuals, not just non-Israelite individuals, but really peoples as a whole.
But on the other hand, if you read the whole Psalm, it may be changing also from verse to verse.
At some point, referring to non-Israelites as collectives or as individuals may not
matter that much for this Psalm. And I don't think it's eschatological. I don't think it's
really about God's justice here and now. And the hope, I mean, at least expressing the hope
to see God's justice realized in the Psalmist's life and see his enemies defeated, because he's
also speaking about my enemies, not just Goim. So I think it's very different from what we find in
Matthew, the judgment scene at the end of Matthew, where Jesus is sitting and judging
everybody, basically. I mean, there is no distinction. He's judging individuals because
he's judging people according to whether they have visited the sick, given food to the needy, etc, etc.
So it's not about nations, Adam, Rome, whatever being judged. It's really about people, individual
people. And in that case, what is at the center is their relationship to him. So again, the judgment
scene is very different. It's not about Rome committed to what Israel, to what the people of
Israel, to Judah, as in Joel and the Psalms, to some extent. But it's really about how people have
behaved towards Jesus or maybe his followers. And so it's very universal. It's about everybody.
Now, in the two other passages that you mentioned from Matthew and Luke, these passages, they speak
about the 12 apostles judging the 12 tribes of Israel. And here we see that we see the originally
Jewish context of Jesus' preaching and the Christian tradition, that they were first and foremost
concerned with Israel, and then only later on they started to think more widely about the non-Jews.
And so here, I think it's more like a kind of inner Jewish tradition. And we could imagine that the
author of Matthew had a kind of two stages process in mind, like first Israel will be judged by Jesus
and his apostles. And then in a second stage, the whole world, the nations, the every individual on
earth. So maybe that was what Matthew had in mind. I don't know. But the fact that there are these two
moments, they could be reconciled. I mean, I see no opposition between these traditions. I see more
that they complement each other. They are at two different levels. And they reflect the fact that
there was this originally Jewish context, and then later on this expansion to include the non-Jews.
Reminds me of that book Paula Fredrickson wrote. Paul, well, not Paul the Pagan's apostles loved
that one. When Christians were Jews, really interesting, this evolution that takes place,
the Jewish Christianity that ends up incorporating non-Jews. And Matthew's an interesting gospel,
because as much as it's like the Jewish gospel, it keeps hinting at this thing like, we went,
we came to you, we tried, we came to you and you didn't listen. It almost reminds me of what we
were talking about with Paul opening the door, except this, you know, I talked to a rabbi,
Rabbi Tobias Singer, and he has, he kind of has an axe to grind against Christianity. He's Orthodox
Jew. You know, he's like, ah, Paul's a manipulator. And you know, he has all these conspiracy about
it. But he did say that like many Jews read Matthew and realized, no, no, no, like a lot of them get
turned away from it. Because in Matthew over and over, there's kind of like this, like kind of a
foretelling, like, don't worry to the Centurion, you have greater faith in all in Israel. Like,
what? Like it's hinting at Gentiles are going to really accept this. And you Jews did not,
we tried, we tried, we came to you, we came to you, we tried. And, and that's what it seems to
implicate. But the famous passages, the famous not so great commission, where he says, do not go
to the Gentiles, do not enter any city of the Samaritans, but rather go only to the lawsuit
of Israel. Luke completely omits it. He like, nope, no, no, I'm not having that in my gospel.
I don't, you know what I mean? You're right. But on the other hand, Luke is also a very Jewish
gospel for other reasons, because Luke has a number of traditions that are not found in the other
synoptic gospels. And that resonates within Judean society of the first century CE, in a very
interesting way, especially when you think of what you find in the Quran scrolls, in the Dead Sea
Scrolls, some of Luke's traditions really echo some of the things that we find in the Dead Sea
Scrolls. So even though I know that many people consider Luke to have been like, maybe not Jewish,
or I tend to see the author of the gospel of Luke as a Jew, because he was really clearly aware
of many debates that had been going on in Jewish society.
Yeah, I'm definitely convinced too that he used Josephus' works. I am personally convinced whoever
wrote Luke Acts is aware of this. Steve Mason came on and he like presented showing things that
Josephus only wrote about in this. So, hey, this might be a Jew who we might have evidence
to point out of Jews who like Josephus, because I hear people say, Josephus was a turncoat and he
betrayed us and this and that. But I don't think, did Jews think that during his time, around that
time, do we have any voices of Jews saying, we don't like you, you turncoat? Is that something
that's later? There are voices in Josephus' work, like Josephus himself describes people who accuse
him of being a traitor. Especially during the Jerusalem siege, he's sent by Titus to speak to
the people who are within Jerusalem, who are besieged, and he tries to convince them to surrender
and they shouted him and they insult him and he's reporting that in his writings.
But he can do so because he's projecting himself as a new Jeremiah. Jeremiah also
gave this advice to the people in Judah to surrender to the Babylonians
and they did not want to and then the catastrophe happened. So, he sees himself as a second Jeremiah,
so he doesn't care about having been insulted. But yeah, I mean, it's part of the show. But yeah.
If I could ask just a bonus question, and this has not been, I didn't even send these beforehand.
So, my question is, if you don't mind, if you don't have an answer, I'll cut it off from here.
The Paul Fredrickson's work, fantastic, it shows in Paul the Pagan's Apostle that Paul's living in
the last days and believing in the last days, you know that the Gentiles, the nations would come
and they would recognize the truth. And he's probably seeing these God fears and all these
people around that are actually acknowledging the laws of God or at least wanting to worship
the God of Israel, etc. And he's saying, this is the end. You know, they've been thinking it's the
end for a long time now, the Qumran sect, etc. But Paul believes it's the end. But with the end
also comes the regathering of Israel. The regathering of Israel is, you know, this big hot topic
that I've been talking about on my show as well. Do you have thoughts on what the regathering
is pictured in the New Testament? Maybe it's not one message. But the reason I ask is, if we look
at Acts, in the beginning of Acts, you have regathering of Jews from every nation. And in my
mind, I'm thinking the book of Acts is picturing the regathering of Israel as Jews all across the
world. But Josephus believes Israel is beyond the Euphrates River and out there, and different
ideas Jews have maybe about the lost Israel that needs to come back. Do you have your personal
thoughts on this in particular? The seed in Acts is just about the pilgrimage to the Jerusalem
Temple. It is pretty realistic. I mean, from what we know from Josephus and other sources,
it mentions Jews and proselytes, by the way, not just Jews, Jews and proselytes. So it's not
about the end gathering of the exiles. It's about people who believe in the God of Israel and come
for a pilgrimage. I don't think it has any kind of eschatological meaning, this scene in the book
of Acts. It has another meaning, which is the Pentecost setting. Everybody gathers
to celebrate the gift of the law, the gift of the Torah. This is Pentecost. And on the other hand,
the apostles will receive the gift of the Spirit. So we have the Spirit that complements the law.
It's a literary construction with a very powerful theological message. This is the second giving
of the law somehow. It's not exactly the law, it's the Spirit. And it will be for everybody this time
and not just for Israel at Sinai. So anyway, there is a theological meaning to this in-gathering
scene, but it's not this kind of eschatological return of the exile that you mentioned, I think.
So I don't think that the New Testament has much to say about the end gathering of the exile,
because I don't think they care. This is not the issue anymore.
It's almost like Rabbi Akiva, he even said that they're not coming back. He didn't even care,
though, it wasn't necessary in his mind. But Josephus has this belief that maybe they're
out there and they're going to come back one day. So in the New Testament, they don't really talk
about it is what you're saying. No, no, because I don't think it matters, because if you read
the descriptions of Jesus' second coming, like from one end of the earth to the other end,
everybody will see it. It will be like a world event. So you don't even need to be in Jerusalem
or in Judea or whatever. And it's going to be such a cosmic transformation. So what's the point of
coming back to Jerusalem? It's not the earthly Jerusalem that matters anymore. It's the heavenly
Jerusalem of the Book of Revelation, for example. So I think we change paradigms there. We switch
to something else completely. I think John Jay Collins also thinks that it's not just that
the New Testament isn't worried about it. There's much of the Hebrew Bible, he said.
If you pay close attention, he said, a lot of it stops to worry. A lot of those writers stop
worrying about it. So there's many prophets that talk about it, but then there's many writers also
that don't. And they're not concerned about this whole eschatological regathering. And that's even
in the Hebrew Bible, according to John Jay Collins. So I like to think about you all. I'm like, okay,
so this is what Cattel says. This is what John says. This is what Paul of Regis says. Christine
Hayes. In Romans 11, 25, it reads as following I'm reading from the RSV revised standard version.
Lest you be wise in your own conceits, I want you to understand this mystery, brethren,
a hardening has come upon part of Israel until the full number of the Gentiles come in.
There are various interpretations of this, at least four that are like the common ones.
How do you interpret it? And are you aware of Jason Staple's position on this?
I'm pretty. I'm sorry.
No worries. No comment. How do you interpret this?
So I would like to relate this to your previous question on replacement theology,
replacement theology, because we said that Paul opened the door to replacement theology,
even though he may not have intended it really himself. And this passage is crucial to balance
other passages where we see that Paul is redefining the children of Abraham as those who have faith
in Christ, et cetera, et cetera. So what does he mean when he says that all Israel will be saved?
Here I see a kind of dialectic at work in Paul's thoughts, and I think there is an ambivalence.
I think that Paul loved his people, and it was very difficult for him to think that part of
Israel would be lost because they didn't have faith in Christ. So I understand this passage
at the end of these three chapters where he deals really with the issue of Israel
as a kind of expression of hope. Maybe this is part of God's design in the end, and he speaks
about a mystery. So maybe the hardening of Israel is really something that is God's decision in
order to let the gentiles come in, but then as a kind of compensation, and by grace,
not by the law, not through the works of the law, but by grace, even this part of Israel
that has refused Christ will be reintegrated in the end. So I don't think that Paul really
justifies what he's saying there, but I think it's an expression of hope for his people,
because he says several times, you know, it tones me apart. I'm so sad that they are now separated
because of Christ, et cetera, et cetera. So I think it was really hard for him, and he expresses his
hope. Now maybe you want to know how I understand the other part of this passage, which is until
the fullness of the gentiles have come in, and I understand it as a reference to the non-Jews,
like non-Israelites. People were really outside of Israel completely, but for whom, according to Paul,
Christ had also died and resurrected and had broke salvation. So for him, it was like
there was the time of the gentiles, and then in the end, a final reintegration of Israel.
So I'm not original at all. I think many people read it this way, but I think there is a tension
in Paul's fault as far as Israel's salvation is concerned. Will it really be all Israel or only
those Israelites who have had faith in Christ? I think there was a tension in his fault around
this issue. So to answer just to cap it off, to make sure we're speaking the same language,
in your studies, when Paul speaks about Israel, he means the Jews. Yes, definitely. All right.
Thank you so much. I like to do all of this, and you are fantastic. I can't tell people,
I'm serious. This is an amazing book. If you really want to understand the source material,
looking at all of the mindsets that were involved in why the Torah is universally
accepted, even among non-Jews, why would they care? Where does this come from?
And how did pagan Rome's influence on the Jews? While they were pagan Rome, because that's really
one of the focal points, is seeing how much impact they had. How much did they change the
mindset of Jews in their time? You see all those greasy fingerprints that I...
Would you like to comment about the book real quick for everybody before we go,
other than the fact that it did win an award in scholarship? What is the Jewish...
The National Jewish Book Award in the category scholarship. Yeah.
Wow. So tell us just briefly as we go about this book and why people should get it.
Well, it's about why Rome was a very special challenge to Jews after so many imperial
dominations that Israel had already experienced with the Babylonians and the Persians and the
Hellenistic Kingdoms and so on. So why was Rome different? And what difference does it make in
the history of Jewish thought? Would the Jews have considered the Torah, the people of Israel
in the same way exactly if they had not encountered Rome? That's the question.
Very powerful. I had snagged this on our way out. There's this part she has in like page 296
or something and it says, as Deuteronomy 4.6 states, you must observe these laws diligently,
for this will show your wisdom and discernment to the peoples who when they hear all these
statutes will say, surely this great nation, this great Goi is a wise and discerning people.
In addition, Deuteronomy 4.8 asks, and what other great nation Goi has statutes and ordinances
as just as this entire law Torah that I am setting before you today? It's very competitive when you
find out what's going on in these times and I love it. I love it. I love it. Thank you so much,
Katel. I really appreciate you joining. We're going to do this again. We've got to continue.
Thank you for this conversation. Thank you. And ladies and gentlemen, we are MythVision.
