We are MythVision. Ladies and gentlemen, we're going to be discussing a very intense case
that the Scientology Church, if I could call it that, has neglected a situation with a
wonderful woman. And today, I have Karen DeLaCarriere joining me. Welcome to MythVision,
my friend. Hello, Derek. Hello. Hi, everybody. I do want everyone to know fair warning. The
content that we're going to get into in the discussion is very difficult. So if you have
a weak stomach or you're concerned about some of the content that might be discussed when
it comes to the death of somebody, you may not want to watch just giving you a fair warning
or be prepared. So Karen, please tell us about this wonderful girl named Lisa and what happened
to her. This is probably the most tragic story in all of Scientology. A young girl in her early
30s migrated from Dallas, Fort Worth and took Scientology services. She believed in Howard
and she believed in everything. And one day, she had a minor car accident, just like a
fender bender. She stopped her car, took off all her clothes and walked naked on Fort Harrison
Avenue, which is like Hollywood Boulevard of Sunset Boulevard of Sunset. It's a main artery.
People walk on it morning, noon, and night. And here she was walking stock naked. So it
was called in. It's really not, it's not lewd conduct when you're, lewd means you're
clothed and then you expose your, that's lewd. But obviously they're walking naked. You had
a mental breakdown, mental breakdown or something, you know. So the police didn't look at this
as some lewd conduct thing. Felt something mentally. So they rushed her to the prime
hospital in Claywater, Morton Plant. Listed as one of the top 10 hospitals in all of Florida.
Morton Plant is state of the art. Now, remember what I'm saying about Morton Plant because it
comes up in the story later. I do want to show everybody what she looks like here just to give
people an idea. She was a beautiful, beautiful girl. And here's another one just to show people.
Gorgeous. I mean, really gorgeous girl. And so please continue.
So the police come and check her into the psychiatric ward just for observation.
And while she's there,
certain Scientologists, including her boss, Bonetta Slaughter,
who was a David M. Scavige little darling, arrived there. And they say it's against her religion.
One thing your audience needs to know is Scientology is anti-psychiatry in an obsessive
lunatic fashion. Here we are today where I talk out against drugs
and psychiatric abuses of electric shocking people against their will of drugging children
with them not knowing the effects of these drugs. Do you know what Adderall is? Do you
know Ritalin? Do you know now that Ritalin is a street drug? Do you understand that?
The difference is this was not against her will though, but this wasn't against her will.
I understand there's abuse of all of these things.
No, you see, here's the problem. You don't know the history of psychiatry. I do.
They want to destroy, they promise they will eradicate psychiatry from this planet.
Now, psychiatry has MDs, medical doctors, you're a psychiatrist when you've done
med school for seven years. You don't believe a wand and become a psychiatrist. These are medical
doctors and they're going to be eradicated off the place of Planet Earth. That's Scientology's
battle cry. And we've mentioned in a previous episode that that is clearly something from Elron
Hubbard's his pride in how the scientific community saw him as a charlatan, as a fraud,
as a hoaxter who did not have actual scientific data that he brought to the table that they were
like, oh, wow, let's worship Hubbard. No. So he had this deep vendetta against the scientific
community, the very people in which they're saying, no, only Scientologists can treat us. That's it.
Excellent point, Eric. You see, the very first book started the fight. He called it
Dianetics, the modern science of mental health. And the mental health community,
mental health, he, from what school, from what pH, he's writing a new book on mental health.
That was the title of the book. So that started animosity right away. Book one, Dianetics,
Modern Science of Mental Health. Okay, so
they encouraged her to sign herself out, a group, a whole party of
and she wanted to be with her friends. She record, you know, so she signed herself out.
Now we're going to get into her story. She signed herself out. And she was locked in a room
at the Fort Harrison Hotel. She was locked in a cabana.
And a procedure was done on how called introspection rundown. Now, when in medicine,
when in medicine, clinical trials involved hundreds of people testing, hundreds of people
over a period of time, Howard had one case history, one, no clinical trial, one,
one case history of a madman called Bruce Welch, who grabbed a coving knife from the gallery
and ran down the corridors of the appellation saying he wanted to kill Elron Hubbard.
So Elron Hubbard did some, do you want me to sit briefly tell you what he did?
Yeah, sure. He was struck down, locked in a cabin
and Hubbard became his pen friend. No one was allowed to speak to him. Food was put under a slot
and he was in isolation and Hubbard and him corresponded. And three weeks later, he came
right out of it and he was well. So Hubbard took that procedure of locking someone in isolation,
no talking, maybe a few notes back and forth and a hellogen laugh goes off, sanity occurs.
That was what they did to Lisa. No speaking to her, no talking, lock her in the room,
after this one procedure done on Bruce Welch, it's now exported to become
a procedure done on everyone. Derek, what was done on Bruce Welch was when we were on the high seas.
It's very dangerous when you have a killer with a machete on the high seas because you're on a ship.
Lisa wasn't on the high seas. She didn't need to be locked in a room. There was no danger.
She wasn't running up and down with a knife to kill, but she did go more and more crazy.
She would say things like, I am God. I created time. While she threw her own feces on the walls,
she was in a complete utter mental breakdown.
That's sad. She didn't belong in a more implant psychiatric facility, but a doctor
who never ever saw her was prescribing valium, a diazepan, and chloral hydrate.
Of course, she was refusing it. They were shoving it down her throat with a turkey baster.
And she wouldn't eat, and every day she was drugged as she got more and more crazy with
chloral hydrate mixed from Dr. Minkoff of the Tampa Bay. He never even saw her,
but he was a Scientologist, so he was prescribing. If you look up on Google, chloral hydrate mixed
with a diazepan can give you long-term brain memory loss and totally affect the new neurological
system. These two are a cocktail. A drug can be effective, but you mix it with another drug and
more. Now, I thought they didn't believe in these drugs from what I understood, so this is already
a lot of crazy. They truly believe in the drugs and Scientology has had a huge amount of mental
breakdowns while the people are getting their cancer. Huge amounts. In fact, they had schedules
called Baby Watch. Baby Watch meant you had to, for three, four hours a day, be on guard
to guard the next mental breakdown. When I was there for some seven or eight years,
there used to be two or three mental breakdowns with Baby Watches all going on at the same time.
Lisa's horror story is only one story we're sharing. We don't have to keep talking about it,
but this is only one of several that occur in Scientology. It's not a unique
only one, but Lisa is tragic because she died at 32, forced to take these drugs
while she got more and more crazy for 17 days after they kidnapped her out of modern world,
which because they are anti-psychiatry. So they get her out. Let me show an image of her
for a second here. She's got this plaque. Is there something significant about this
plaque in particular? Yes. They have three very expensive procedures called the L's,
and I was an L's case supervisor, so I didn't know it inside out. L11, it costs $100,000
to have these three procedures done. $100,000, and L11 is one of the three.
So three weeks before she went crazy and took off her clothes and walked naked,
she had this L11 procedure done on her. And David, this is the nearest 1995.
David Miscavige, who never had any case supervisor training ever,
who is barely at class 4 in training, was supervising Lisa McPherson in the weeks before
her death. He was supervising her psychiatric, psychological. The leader of the church was
supervising Lisa. And in Scientology, there are video cameras in every counseling session.
You are on camera and it's recorded. And all these cameras of all these counseling rooms are in a
bank. You enter a room and there are 30 screens, and you can click. So any executive can wonder
and watch what you're saying. You think this is private. You're giving up a sexual
masturbation, and you think, well, you know, and I wasn't thinking of my life, and I was
fantasizing this. And you think you just got pre-spent in privilege, whereas
50 execs could wonder in and just watch you giving up this secret of yours.
So Miscavige was watching her on the screen testimony of those around. And he said,
she's clear. Clear is an elevated spiritual status where you no longer have a reactive mind.
And do you know, shortly before she went crazy, she attested to Scientology clear.
She was the, that's pretty much saying, if you're looking at it in Christian terms,
you're perfect. You literally have achieved the supreme that you can possibly be as
in pure or something like that. That's, and the fact that he, if I can use the term
misdiagnosis her, now this is the head honcho, the whole spiritual
movement here that is telling everyone in her, you're clear. And next thing you know,
she's not clear. I wonder what kind of excuse in his head he rationalized for that one.
Oh, how they tried to cover up that he had a declare claim, just shortly before her mental
breakdown. She, when you attest big state, you have to give a success story speech,
go up on stage and you tell all your wins. This is happening? Yes. Okay. He's on stage right now,
giving this speech. That's why she's holding up the search. And she's got it. Now, this was the
first inkling. Derek, I really love that you're giving a picture. This is, this is very good.
This is good. She knew she wasn't clear. She had all kinds of mental agitation going on.
And this is the first time she started acting. Her voice was agitated. She was,
she didn't seem cool, calm and collected, giving her success story speech. Why? She knew she was
lying in this attest. She hadn't attested some state of bodhi or nirvana. And another thing I got to
throw at you, people go, well, I tested clear, but I don't know if I, if that was true. I got
mental damage, nasty pictures in my head. I got voices and figure, figure, figure. And I got to
stress and I go, you haven't done your OT three to OT eight. It's the attached spirits that are
bugging you. So the next half million dollars is you're clear, but you're not really sane and
you're not really everything we promise only because what about the body thing? You're, you're
infested. So you attain clear, but you've got 400 million pesky split fleas all sitting around you,
jabbering and talking. So that's the next half million dollars. Anyway, Lisa wasn't, Lisa gave
this speech. It was very erratic, jagged. And it was almost like she was obliged to give her speech
on something she knew was bogus. Wow. So she, how long after she gave the speech did she have this
two weeks, three weeks, three weeks. So she reared in someone and then that's the spiral
downhill for her. The, the little fender bumper was absolutely no reason at all to
take off her clothes and do it. Maybe she was having a, what's it called, which caused the fender
bender? You see what I mean? Like maybe she was already nuts in a way. And then that's why either
she rear ended someone or someone rear ended her. And that's where she's in this episode,
not that that was the reaction to, but that she was already in an episode. And here they are trying
to diagnose these statements. I mean, how ridiculous, like these invisible non-existent.
You were very clever to say that because there's something in Scientology, a ritual called
write up your crimes. It's your Overt's and Withhold's confession done in writing,
which by golly, the church hang on to some of my grinders for your good friend, my grinders.
They took what he, you have to confess, confess your criminal, you ducker. Lisa,
for after she had tested clear, had to sit and write up her crimes. Morning, noon, and night,
I will show you, I will, I will put it in comments. Her last Overt Withhold write up would make you
cry. She is trying to get into the depths of her soul to find her evil.
And she writes, you know, I thought she makes some thought of hers,
a criminal act. You just glance at the first page and you see how she's struggling
to find out how wicked, wicked she is and needs to confess.
Sorry, I was going to say this is a, it's a sad thing. And I guess it'd be, we're at the point
where we're going to go ahead and let people know and see a few images. I want to warn them
because you're getting right to the point of her death. But before I show these images,
maybe you can lead us up to, here you have her confessing. She's doing everything she can.
She's now rejecting food. She's really in an episode. She's not in a mental health hospital
where medical professionals can help her because of her religion. And they're trying to treat
invisible fatins. How ridiculous. They were treating that she didn't hit those levels yet.
They were just, she, nobody was allowed to, they put foreign language people who couldn't even speak
any English. She couldn't talk to anyone. She was on baby watch with these guys and they wrote
extensive notes. But on the last day, there was a red alert that she was really deteriorating.
There were visible signs that she was getting worse and worse and worse, borderline.
They were from life. And instead of rushing her to modern plant, five blocks, literally a three
minute, two minute ride, they took her to the Dr. Minkoff in Newport, Ritchie or some, some of
temper. I don't know. He, he was 35 minutes away. And in the 35 minute drive in the car,
she died. She was dead on arrival. So
instead of saving her life and taking her to a top 10 hospital,
spitting distance from the, from Scientology, they took her
to Dr. Ritchie, who was put around chloral, hydratin, diazepan, malium. And when she arrived,
she was dead on arrival. That's crazy. What the state of Florida did,
Bernie McCabe, state prosecutor, he indicted the church of Scientology criminally
for abusive and adult and practicing medicine without a license.
This was the church of Scientology being indicted for criminal conduct
on the death of Lisa McPherson. I think the coroner was horrified. I didn't send you more photos, but
if you Google Lisa McPherson, autopsy photos, her body was covered. Ooh. Anyway,
you get the picture. This was Scientology willfully, willfully implementing
Hubbard's one shot win on the Apollo with the mad Bruce Welch
and implementing that procedure of locking someone in isolation, not talk, not letting them talk,
not communicating, not showing them affinity, nothing, just incarcerating them in solitary,
which is the end. You know something, Derek, right now, this is unbelievable.
Before you take any service in Scientology, there are four contracts
where you sign away your life. You can never sue them. You can never take them to court. You
can never do that. You can never speak on the internet. You can never, one of the contracts say,
if you go crazy, you have a mental breakdown. They can lock you up and do this procedure.
Oh, that's ridiculous. Yeah. I have serious, serious problems with that kind of stuff,
and that's one of the reasons I love doing what I do here at MythVision, is to educate people,
to see through these superstitions and these ridiculous ideas. There's much better ways
to deal with mental health and we have science that can do that. So Karen, we saw one of the
darker sides by just seeing her face and how that was at the end, that that was even allowed to get
that far. I mean, there's much more going on than she's just visually looks like she's,
oh, she looks like she's just a little bit maybe close to something bad. That's really bad. That's
like beyond what you would expect someone to have. And so anyway, let's end on a high note,
because it's such a dark thing that happened to her. What was, and I hate to use the term
sacrifice, but she speaks after her death in a way. And her way of speaking is a powerful way
of taking down such a ridiculous complex like this. Can you tell us about it?
Lisa changed the landscape of how Scientology was viewed.
As the story leaked out more and more, by the way, they got the coroner to change.
Scientology became an army. They just went off to the coroner. They just,
so instead of putting the death, the way she, she put it negligent homicide or whatever,
she changed it to accident. And with all the heat put on her, she said it was
a pulmonary embolism. She died of a, after being locked up for 17 days,
and shelfies. She said it was a pulmonary embolism. Anyway, to end on a high note,
Lisa opened the floodgates. Groups formed. People protested and marched on the
Fort Harrison with candle every year on the date of her death. I think it's December 5th person.
People just put up pictures of her and do vigils. But more importantly,
people opened up blogs and forums and talked about Scientology's cult procedures.
She just made it explode. And what Scientology called the attacks,
they call it the attack era, the attack started while Lisa's death opened up
so even posthumously, she's gone. But she made even quiet people sitting on the fence or not
talking. Everybody started exploding and talking to others and journalists and TV shows and YouTube
and people all started sharing their stories. That was Lisa MacPherson's legacy.
Oh man. Well, I'm glad that we learned about her story. I hope people take this and realize,
stay away from Scientology number one, but also stay away from these types of cults anyways.
And I ask everybody who's watching, tell us what you think about this in the comments section.
Love to hear your thoughts in particular about Lisa and rest in peace. I wish this wasn't the
way it ended for her, but it's one of those things where this church, it's really, really harmful.
And sometimes it takes that for people to see it. Like you said, people sitting on the fence
finally realized and had to speak out. And I just hope this helps someone out there who
might be wrestling with these ideas. Thank you so much, Karen. Do you have something you'd like to say?
Derek, what makes this so bad is if you join, let's say you join a gangster group,
a mafia group, you know the rules. They will want you if you, you expect to be,
in joining Scientology, you trust and believe. You don't expect to be taken down
furiously and cruelly. It's different when you join one of these fates because you're trusting.
You don't expect betrayal as you would if you were joining an evil group. Anything goes,
you know, you join a cartel, okay, one day you're alive, next day you and your family are slaughtered,
but you joined a cartel. All the rules, you know what you were stepping into. In Scientology,
there are so much to see that people don't know what they're stepping into. And I'm glad you're
exposing it in MythVision. Thank you, Derek. Thank you, Karen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you.
Let us know what you think down in the description or in the comments.
Ladies and gentlemen, I hope you enjoyed that show. I have hundreds of other ones on the Patreon,
letting you guys know you can help us continue doing what we're doing at MythVision Podcast.
Also, you can have questions asked to the academics that I research with and I interview.
Your question can be asked in a 1080p high quality video that might end up on YouTube. Like I said,
ladies and gentlemen, I want to expose the cults, show these superstitions for what they are,
and the errors within these texts and all of these religions to help people realize they're all
manmade and that we have what it takes. All we need to do is pull together. Let me tell you
something. The religious world has the financial backing that those skeptics such as myself don't
have. So if you want to help and be a participant, you can for a little bit a month. It's not much.
If you want to go more, you can. But like I said, this is how I can keep the lights on for MythVision.
