Ladies and gentlemen, get the book Dr. Joshua Bowen wrote.
The atheist handbook to the Old Testament, it is extremely full of knowledge and information
for anyone.
As well as join the Patreon, there's hundreds of videos that have not released to the internet.
You can ask questions and I will record them with these scholars in high definition.
I do that all the time.
You can also personal message me and you help the community grow.
Thanks a lot.
Dr. Joshua Bowen, another Patreon member, Michael Baca.
He says, hi Derek.
Again, I'm so impressed with all the work you've done recently with so many top notch
scholars including Dr. Bowen.
Here's one quick one.
Dr. Bowen, I purchased your recent book.
Thanks Michael.
Appreciate the purchase.
But have yet to begin reading it.
But I'm looking forward to it.
My question is, is there such thing as the biblical interpretation of anything?
Put that in parentheses.
Jews and Jews have been interpreting the Bible for thousands of years and they don't
seem to agree at all on how to interpret it.
Even if we restrict ourselves to what the biblical writers may have intended with certain
things like slavery, is it fair to say anything is the biblical interpretation of such and
such?
This is what fundamentalists do all the time with the Bible.
So what do we mean when we say the biblical writers had such and such views on slavery?
And it might apply to some texts and not others.
Is there still a value in asserting that the biblical writers believe such and such about
some topic like slavery when you might find another writer who has different views?
I know this is a complex topic but curious how you would approach this issue.
Appreciate again the great scholarship you are doing and how you are sharing this with
Derek.
Thanks.
That's a phenomenal question and so let me say it this way, of course, when people say
the biblical interpretation, John Collins wrote a book called What Are Biblical Values?
And this is getting at the heart of this question because what are biblical values?
Well, I mean, is there such a thing as biblical values?
Because this is problematic.
Is there this unified voice on any particular biblical topic?
So when we think about slavery as he brought up, is there some unified voice on slavery?
And the answer is no, of course not.
There's some commonalities that we see.
For example, in the Hebrew Bible and the laws, there's always some care for the Hebrew
dead slave for the Israelite.
But does it manifest itself in the same way?
No.
Is it to the same level in each law collection?
No.
It develops.
So what does it mean to have a biblical view on slavery?
Well, if you're asking someone what they mean by it, of course what they mean is their
interpretive model.
And it's a theological question, I think, more than it is a historical critical question.
So what does the Bible say about X?
Sometimes it's wrong to even say it like that, right?
Yeah.
I mean, I think it depends on what they mean.
So if you're asking, as he said, a fundamentalist evangelical Christian, what's the biblical
view on homosexuality?
For example, what they mean by that, how they will answer that question is they've taken
in all the data points, best case scenario, they've taken in all the data points.
And that never happened, so I'll just say, but yes.
Whatever amount of data points they've taken in, they have applied their interpretive model
to those data points.
And in doing so, they have constructed what they believe is the unified biblical response
to that question.
If you're asking from a historical critical standpoint, and that's of course what I think
he's driving at, there aren't these unified voices.
I was thinking about something as you asked the question, and I'm blanking on it now, which
is apparently what I do.
It was a really good question, and I think there's something underlying it.
I had this conversation the other night, tell me if this fits, because this is something
that came to mind.
I actually spoke to Dale Martin, Dr. Dale Martin.
Oh wait, sorry.
Go ahead.
I just remembered it's the Exodus.
Okay.
Exodus traditions.
But go ahead.
No, please.
Just remind me of it.
Nope, you go first.
Okay.
This is your interview.
So Stephen Russell in 2009 wrote a book, and of course the title escapes me.
But essentially what he's doing is he's looking at the earliest references that we have to
the Exodus traditions, and he's comparing them and contrasting them.
For just this reason, do we have a unified voice, a unified message, a unified tradition
on the Exodus?
Spoilers.
No, right?
And what he does is he utilizes prophetic texts and early texts in the Pentateuch that
have different geographical origins.
It's a really interesting book.
And so he looks at what is he breaks Israel up into its three constituent parts, essentially.
You have Cisjordan in the north, so stereotypical Israel, northern tribes.
Then you have the transjordan, transjordanian, Israel, Cisjordan in the north, transjordan
then Judah in the south.
And as it turns out, his argument, and I feel like it makes a pretty good case for it, is
that if you look at Amos and Hosea, you see what's reflected in the northern traditions,
really northern traditions.
What is it that they thought about the Exodus?
And there's no slavery in the northern tradition, right?
It seems like the Exodus is more of a northern tradition, but there doesn't seem to be this
overt slavery component to it.
There's like a journey, it's maybe not so much an eastward journey, it's just coming
up into the land.
And there's a military aspect to it, but there's not this component of slavery and oppression.
And I won't go into all the details of which appears where I'll be talking about this in
my in volume two of the book in the Exodus chapter.
I'll go into this in a little bit of detail, but only to say whether Russell is right or
wrong about all the different aspects.
It does seem clear that there's not a unified early voice on the Exodus tradition.
Now that doesn't mean that in its canonical form, later writers sort of coalesce, and
you know, what's the word that I'm thinking of, bring together conflate, conflate is the
word, and tie these different aspects of the Exodus story together to make this unified
Exodus tradition.
But if we're thinking about originally like the earliest data stations that we have getting
back to like Exodus 15 and the song of the sea, or the Balaam oracles in numbers 23 and
24, like these early texts, do they reflect different traditions?
And I think it's important to recognize both aspects.
I think for our purposes, the earlier traditions are more important from sort of an anti-apologetics
perspective.
Exactly.
But that doesn't mean, and let me, let me go to sort of the stereotypical, you had Ronald
Hendl on, and I think he talked about this.
Think about the pilgrims, right, in your early Thanksgiving stories.
There's a difference between what actually happened and how we through cultural memory
incorporate and reincorporate that into our own practice, into our own traditions.
And a good exact, good story that's sort of an example of this, feeling very long winded
today.
No, you're fine.
But this sort of the funny story that I heard about the mother and her daughter who were
cooking Thanksgiving dinner, and the mother showing the young daughter how to cook all
the different dishes.
And she goes to put the ham in the oven and she cuts both ends of the ham off before she
slides it in.
And the daughter who's like 12 or 13 says, mom, why did you cut the ends of the ham off?
And she goes.
I don't know.
My mother always did it that way.
She just said, well, it's weird and she goes, you know, let's call grandma and ask her why
she did it.
So they get her on the phone and I say, hey, mom, what, you know, why is it cooking dinner?
Why did you cut the ends of the ham off every year before you put it in the oven?
There's sort of silence on the other end of the phone.
And she goes, you know, I don't really know.
My mother always did that.
So, you know, I tell you what I said, get her on a conference call three way.
And hey, you know, hey, Nana, you know, why is it that you cut the ends of the ham off
every year?
And she goes, oh, because I had a really narrow oven, it wouldn't fit in.
Right.
And see that's sort of the development.
There's a difference between, you know, the origin and how that tradition gets passed
on and carried on because like it could become, if you think about it two more generations,
maybe that's a real, you know, real significant had that origin story not come to light necessarily
maybe a tradition really develops around it where they maybe they're cutting the ends
of the ham off to give it to a needy family, you know, that doesn't have it or they're
cutting it off because symbolically it's where the the worst parts of the ham off.
And so it's cutting off for this Thanksgiving or cutting off, I don't know, the things that
we want to do away with so that we can give thanks to, I don't know.
But the point is that it can carry on its own meaning and its own tradition completely
relevant, independent of.
Yeah.
And that's actually the conversation I had with Del Martin on the phone the other night.
And I felt we weren't getting too far in the conversation because I was like, look what
I'm interested in, if I'm going to interview you would be trying to ascertain its original
context.
Now it had been different.
I felt like the conversation would have gone a different direction.
It would have been different.
I think if you said, look, we can attempt with the canonical and what we have, but to ascertain
the actual original context, have you not watched any of Bart Ehrman's videos?
I mean, technically we don't have the originals to know what actually has been tampered with.
But hasn't, we can assume that we might and we could play around with maybe what it meant
originally in its context, but we can't ascertain that.
Instead, what I got though was kind of like, he sees this as art and he's like, I think
that's the wrong kind of scholarship.
This is what his response was.
He said, when I approach this, it's like you, if I told you, hey, what's Mozart's meaning
of the something symphony or whatever, the way he approached it is like, what he wrote
it for originally doesn't really matter when you're listening to it, why it is good for
you and why you like it.
Yeah.
Reader response.
Right.
And I could respect it.
Yeah.
At the same time, I think what I'm trying to do is also very important for what we're
trying to get at.
You know what I would say is that both are right.
And what I mean by that is, wouldn't it be great if the only type of interpretive approach
today were reader response?
So I feel like that would be really great because reader response approaches to the text.
Like when you're in Sunday school, we go to an Episcopal church and I teach Sunday school
there sometimes, or I did before the pandemic.
And we don't ask questions in there like, okay, what did Isaiah mean?
What did second Isaiah mean here in this context?
The question is, how does this make you feel?
What does this say to you?
Right.
This portion of the gospel, how does that make you feel?
Well, you know, to the anti-Joel Olstein people, you know, that are like, boo, Joel
Olstein, you know, he's too touchy feely.
He's not getting down to the meat of the word.
That's true.
Right.
He's not.
He's engaging with how it affects people in their day to day lives.
And that's a valid way to come at the text because it's how you come at artwork, it's
how you come at a painting.
The problem is, and so the reason that I think that if only people in like religious circles
interpreted things through read or response, I feel like there'd be a lot less of you should
do things my way.
Right.
That's not what we see.
Nobody says this abstract painting, you need to see it the way that I see it.
Nobody does that.
Good point.
And I think that if people would say, oh, you know, when Jesus said, you know, let the
little children come under me, or when, you know, that you see this passage about the
Amalekites, the way that I see that, the way that I interpret that is that like I should
be tackling my own demons, you know, my own sin, hey, boss, like go for it.
That's great.
Because what reader response does, and this isn't my field, but like what reader response
seems to do is to take the, from a moral standpoint, for example, you have your ethical system
already intact.
And what you're doing is you're filtering that story through what you know to be good
and what you know to be bad.
And so you, if you have that sort of reader response approach, interpretive approach,
what you don't do is say, okay, slavery in the Hebrew Bible, you can own foreigners.
Well, now that, that text should address how I think about this morally.
It's not really how that works, right?
You think, okay, obviously I know slavery is bad.
I don't see this as a text that dictates how I should live.
What I'm doing is I'm, how does this speak to me?
So I think that both are good.
What I think is bad is that you, the thing that's important is you can't bypass step
one and get to step two.
I don't think at least effectively.
I think you have to understand, in order to do away with this more fundamentalist approach,
taking the text to be, you know, as John Collins wrote in that book, like the thing
that you base your values on, which you shouldn't do, you have to understand, to some degree,
in its sort of more original context, what it is that those values were in order to do
away with that fundamentalist mindset, I think, because you have to see it for what it is.
You have to, you have to, you have to embrace the fact that the Old Testament endorses slavery
before you can say, maybe we shouldn't interpret it through that, you know, authorial intent
and seeing it as this authoritative text and its original setting to speak to and engage
with my life in that sort of legalistic sense.
Yeah.
I think you're right.
I think we were kind of talking past each other, but I think it almost sounded like
he was saying there was no way to know what Paul meant or what he thought, and there's
some possible truth to that in light of the fact that no one has figured out these things
or people are coming at it with biases with reader intent and not actually trying to absolutely
know what the initial was.
And for me, I see value in the initial, since everyone wants to have themselves participate
in the narrative.
Even if the value is, we can't get to it.
Yeah, even if we don't know for sure.
I think that's important because if you can get to the step, we can't get to it.
That automatically does away with that fundamentalist interpretive approach, because they wouldn't
say that, right?
They would say, of course we can get back to what Paul said, look, let me just hold my
Bible up.
This is what Paul said.
Yeah, that's a good point.
At the end of the day, I personally want to know the first more.
And then I do want to understand how people took it, but then also to say, hey, you say
we're all wrong, they say you're wrong, they say they're, and they're all reading the same
thing.
Paul says you're all wrong.
Here's why.
I agree with you, by the way, just because if we are talking past each other, I agree
with you.
I want to talk about, this is the reason that I...
You and me, I was saying that my conversation with Dr. Meagher was, I think we were maybe
talking past each other.
It was a good conversation, but I think he thought, I don't know, I don't want to read
too much into maybe what he thought I was thinking.
But yeah, and the video I did recently with Joel Baden where I said, are you reading the
Bible?
And he's like, you're not really reading the Bible.
And what he was doing this, he was like, listen, let's be honest, we don't even know for sure
the orge.
We talk about we have this source and that source, but what was the source that came
from the oral tradition behind?
We don't know.
Yeah, like this is the thing, you know, Jeffrey T. Gay wrote a very lengthy monograph on the
Epic of Gilgamesh and how it developed from its earlier Sumerian stories and later Cady
in.
And like, but we can track that because we have the Canaeiform tablets.
You know, I can, like we can go into a museum.
I mean, we can't, but I mean, like someone, people can go into the museum and get back
into the tablet room as serologists can and pull open and pull out those tablet fragments
and say, OK, look, here's the Sumerian, you know, one of the, one of the copies of Gilgamesh
and Huawa, you know, where it talks about Gilgamesh going out and fighting in the Cedar
Forest with the beast out there and see how that original Sumerian story, which stands
by itself, gets brought into the Epic of Gilgamesh.
And the Epic of Gilgamesh, of course, pulls in that story, pulls in, you know, Gilgamesh
and the Bull of Heaven, you know, pulls in all these different, say it pulls in the
flood story and does these in such a way to create this, this, this canonical Epic that
has a different meaning than its independent, its individual parts.
Right.
But so it's, there are two questions to ask, at least one is what is the, what is that
Sin Lake Union he's saying, man, I hope I got that right.
You know, the person has attributed to that, the Epic of Gilgamesh and
what is the thing that he's trying to do, you know, adding this sort of bracketed
literary structure and putting, stringing these these originally Sumerian stories
together, what is it that he's trying to get at showing, you know, how people aren't
immortal and what it means to have immortality, at least how can we get close to it by having
your name continue on and so forth, so on and so forth.
How does that, how can we see what was originally, you know, what those original
stories were that he's pulling for?
Well, if we didn't have the Sumerian stories, if, you know, they were written on
parchment or something, we didn't have them, I mean, we could try to get back at it.
Maybe there was an original, you know, like story about Gilgamesh fighting the
bull of heaven with, you know, Ishtar and Anana.
Or maybe there's an original, you know, that like the Gilgamesh and Huawa story was
its own independent thing.
And these little things tie them together in the, in the Epic to string them together,
like what Joel Baden was talking about, the European scholarship.
But, you know, if you didn't have that, you'd have to throw your hands up at the end
of the day, we can't really know that specifically, like we can, we can, we can
have reasonable conclusions.
So yeah, I mean, I agree completely.
That doesn't mean that it's a fool's errand.
And it doesn't mean that Joel Baden and, you know, Thomas Rohmer and Conrad
Schmidt and all these guys that they're just, you know,
what did they say?
Like, it's not all vanity, as Carl would say, right, to, to, to, to try to get back
at how did this Pentateuchal text come together?
Because there's a lot of good insight that you can make.
There are a lot of things that you can say from a probabilistic standpoint.
This is, you know, this is reasonable to conclude.
Just because you can't drive a stake in the ground or draw a line in the sense
that we know how this, it doesn't mean that it's a fool's errand.
Thank you.
