A film by
I'll kill you, I'll kill you, I'll kill you, I'll kill you!
I'll kill you, I'll kill you!
I'll kill you, I'll kill you, I'll kill you, I'll kill you!
I'll kill you, I'll kill you, I'll kill you!
I'll kill you!
I'll kill you, I'll kill you!
I'll kill you, I'll kill you!
I'll kill you!
I'll kill you, I'll kill you!
I'll kill you, I'll kill you!
I'll kill you, I'll kill you!
I'll kill you, I'll kill you!
I'll kill you, I'll kill you!
I'll kill you, I'll kill you, I'll kill you!
I'll kill you, I'll kill you!
I'll kill you, I'll kill you!
I'll kill you, I'll kill you!
I'll kill you, I'll kill you, I'll kill you!
I'll kill you, I'll kill you!
I'll kill you, I'll kill you!
I'll kill you, I'll kill you!
I'll kill you, I'll kill you!
I'll kill you, I'll kill you!
I'll kill you, I'll kill you!
I'll kill you, I'll kill you!
I'll kill you, I'll kill you, I'll kill you!
I'll kill you, I'll kill you, I'll kill you!
Who won the debate, Carrier?
I'll kill you, I'll kill you!
I'll kill you, I'll kill you!
I liked it, yeah.
I'll kill you, I'll kill you!
I'll kill you, I'll kill you!
I liked it, yeah.
I didn't think I was.
Thea, I made her beautiful when she was a Christian, so whatever.
Yeah, can you tell us more about the challenges of mixing these different genres and what was true and what was actually false?
But you still want to tell a bit of a story, but you want to mix in these true information so people can learn.
Was there any special challenges like other than that along those lines while you were writing?
Yeah, the challenge is not to give an information dump.
You know, where all you're doing is just a big pile of info, which some people criticize me for even though I've read a lot of books where far, far more information dumps like that.
I gave them in chunks, but I didn't think it was too heavy until the end where you get to see what was there, what was in that library.
But that's been probably the biggest challenge was just trying to avoid that.
I had an agent for a year and she was telling me to get rid of a lot of that, so she was trying to help me as far as making it more readable to the average reader and things like that.
So I did that, but then she couldn't sell it to the top, what is it, top six or eight biggest publishing companies, publishing houses.
She couldn't sell it to them. She came close on one.
And they said it was too much da Vinci code, too similar to the da Vinci code. I didn't think it was.
This is not a historical fiction at all, but it was too, no, too much too close to that, so they didn't want to take it.
And I said, well, go with the mid-level. There are a lot of mid-level publishing houses out there. Nope, she wouldn't do it.
So then I was back on my own and I just decided to self-publish.
So this went through a lot of stages before it ever got out there.
Can I answer your question?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, it makes sense. So there was a lot of obviously publisher challenges.
Yeah, there was a lot of that. It's very difficult to publish, well, self-publishing.
And for me, self-publishing was a problem because of the Greek. I couldn't go to create space.
Create space at the time, at least in, say, 2014 or so, didn't take any Greek letters.
They would do a lot of other languages. They would not do Greek.
So I couldn't even write the thing there. And so I went to Book Baby and they almost couldn't do it either.
They had to make everything a real special word for every Greek word that's in there, Greek symbol.
They had to do a real special thing. I don't know if you notice, if you read the e-book, which is still...
e-books a year older and the paperback's actually more edited from the e-book.
But you'll still find probably more mistakes in the e-book.
But if you look through the e-book, you'll see where the Greek symbols or words sort of almost look like they're raised off the page a little bit.
You notice that? But that's what they were doing. I had to pay them extra for every damn word there was.
And there were a lot of them.
Edwin, I faced the same problem doing a book that included Greek lettering and Hebrew lettering.
And it was a nightmare. Unfortunately, the book was released with those kinds of errors in it.
But you live and you learn. So onto the next project.
But you admired the work and still do presumably of Michael Curtis Ford and found his work especially helpful.
For those in the audience who may not be familiar with Michael, he's a historical novelist specializing in ancient Rome and ancient Greece.
And I was looking at a list of the top 100 novels in this genre.
Books like The Mysteries of Leosus, The Gates of Hell, The Marathon Conspiracy, etc.
And by my calculation, it seems that at least 70% of them were penned within the last 20 years.
And that was remarkable.
And I thought about why that might be so.
Is it fair to say that the historiographical enterprise has been transformed by the internet and the fact that we have access to all of this information now has really spurred the burgeoning of this genre of historical fiction?
Yeah, that could certainly be. I think a lot of people have an interest and we can access information just so easily now.
And the people who want to, who are intelligent, they're going to always be looking up something.
And yeah, I think one of the best ways to learn history is through historical fiction.
You get a good writer and it's just so much more...
You do it without feeling like you're learning anything. You're just learning the characters.
Like in any book. But oh, these are real. And now you know some history.
And you build on that. You make a skeleton and you flesh it out with time.
And pretty soon you know a whole lot.
I never really took a lot of history classes early on. I wasn't that interested when I was young.
And so every, all the history I know is pretty much self-taught.
Although my dad was kind of a pop, so he would jabber on about various things.
Greeks and Romans and Celts and this and that.
I suppose I got some of it from that too.
Yeah, I wasn't a big fan growing up of the literal straightforward history either.
At the same time, let's focus on the novel, right? Let's talk a little more about the novel itself.
There are two lines of development.
The main character in the past, Hypatia, and in the present we have Lex.
So we have the past reaching forward to the present and the present reaching backwards to the past in order to connect the bridge of truth.
And I like the way you switch back and forth. You filled the story out like the pieces in a checkerboard.
A little here, a little there, and then a little more in each time frame until the big picture is completed.
Was that difficult to pull off being able to connect the past to the future and make it, make it flow like that all the way to a big picture completion?
Yeah, I would say that was fairly difficult.
It was difficult to know when to stop and how to connect the two time periods.
I kind of tried to connect them.
You'd get Lex doing his thing and then you'd go back and you'd see,
why did he find it here or why was it this that he was finding?
And then you'd see Hypatia going through her life and stewing over how she was going to put this together.
So you could see kind of the connection between the two.
I don't want to say spiritual connection between the two because I'm not really spiritual at all.
But I did kind of do a little metaphysical thing because this is fiction and it was fun to connect the two.
And Hypatia's father, he really was into Oniromancy, which is dream interpretation.
That was a big thing back then that was part of healing at the Serapium and that was a big deal.
That was a way they thought they were communing with spirits and whatnot.
So I made dreams part of this thing and I made, Hypatia was a Neoplatonist.
So we had to get into some Platonism in this and Pythagoreanism.
So there's a lot of symbology, a lot of this.
You remember, I don't know how far you got through the book, but there's music playing deep underground where he is especially.
I guess at Lucis there was a little bit, but at Delphi there was a lot of it.
And that's because Apollo is the god of Delphi, right?
He's the god of harmony and music. His daughters were the muses.
And so it all made sense to do it that way.
And I had him playing the lyre, so you could hear the lyre and then you hear the pan flute.
Well Dionysus was partly a god there, at least for part of the season, and he is often equated with pan.
So I had the pan flute and the lyre playing in the end, just for kind of some spookiness and a little eerie situation down there.
You all buy yourself underground and all you got is your flashlight and you're just moving along.
Yeah, I love the vividness or the pictures you paint.
It puts that almost Hollywood style picture in my head.
You have theophilus henchmen going on a rampage, burning temples across the countryside.
And I love the perspective of the pagans because usually you don't get the perspective of the pagans.
You usually get the Christian or the Catholic perspective, and if you're going to be studying some of this religion,
it just so happens that I've been studying this other guy's book the same time I'm reading your book.
I'm only actually halfway through your book, but...
No, the one you got the puzzles from, it's the Jesus Christ, Son of God.
Yeah, David Fidelli, that's right. Sorry, I got the name mixed up.
Anyway, I was just interested in how much of this is actually fiction and how much of it is actually true information.
I had to look up a little bit of this as Hypatia on Wikipedia just to find out.
Yeah, that's good.
Most of it is real. We don't know that much about Hypatia because a lot of her information or anything about her was destroyed.
So we have a little bit, bits and pieces, we have some quotes of hers that I put on the top of some of the chapters.
Well, we don't know a lot, so I kind of took her and gave her a personality and gave her from what we do know of her.
We knew that she was not happy with what the Christians were doing in Alexandria at the time.
Theodosius is edict and pretty soon all the temples were being destroyed.
No, she wasn't happy with that at all. And then, of course, she eventually got killed by them, so we know that much.
But we don't know everything of what she thought and did, and so I gave her speeches, I gave her a personality.
And this whole thing about the treasure hunt, no, obviously not. This is total fabrication on my part.
But I'm trying to teach through this.
Most of the historical pieces that you hear in this are real as far as history as we know.
So you should come out of this thing learning quite a bit.
I should say so, and even with the seriousness of the material, the book is filled with humor.
And I love that. One of the early examples of it is the hidden Mithraim beneath the Vatican, which is kind of a shrine to Mithras.
And coming up in connection with it is the saying of the Christian practice in building atop these shrines.
And we know from history that Christians converted the shrines that were once dedicated to other gods, and very often they also just built on top of them.
And you said that the Christians philosophy was to erase and replace.
Yes, that's right.
Which I thought was pretty good.
And I wasn't even considering that one a joke.
I just kind of threw that in.
It was still good. It was great.
Well, that's funny. I was thinking about this because you had the puzzles we just talked about and how this treasure hunt.
And then there is humor, but you have serious information there as well.
You know, if you put a scratch off, you know, ticket at the beginning of each chapter, most people will probably read what you have, what you have in there with excitement.
Just because there's that suspense with the idea of, oh, what am I going to win or what am I going to find in this treasure?
But in each chapter, you find or in each section, you find that there are these philosophical sayings that introduce each section.
The beginning of chapter six of your book reads, in doubt, there is freedom.
Put another way, if you're unwilling to question your beliefs, then you will never know if you are following truth or lies.
It's yet another layer of valuable information that the novel offers.
And I think that's extremely important for our audience who's looking into this.
And, you know, you kind of bridge a gap not only in the past, the present, but for people who might be closed off to these ideas, to the ideas of open-mindedness.
Does that make sense?
Yeah. Yeah, that's what I'm hoping for.
I want people to approach this with an open mind, if possible.
If you have a closed mind, you're not even likely to read the book or get through it.
So it's really for open-minded people, maybe people on the fence who really are their traditional Christians, perhaps, but they really kind of have their doubts about some of this stuff.
It doesn't sound logical. It doesn't really ring with truth.
But a lot of people just go to church because that's what their families do, and it's just the traditional thing to do.
So hopefully we can, you know, reach those people eventually.
Yeah, in the book, the priest Thoth describes Christianity as a melding together of Egyptian, Jewish, and Greek legends.
They came up with a fresh religion, which they referred to as the New Song.
Their savior began to take on characteristics of Asclepius, like Healer, a peaceful celestial Joshua, who was an amalgam of all that was good and heroic,
and who had performed every miracle claimed by previous divine beings, such as Serapis, of whom the sun is but the physical manifestation.
So that's an example of the thoroughness which you've obviously woven together this tale.
The book is dotted by paragraphs like that.
It's ingenious that you put that in the mouth of the Thoth, the High Priest.
Right, right. Yeah, thanks.
Yeah.
So are you still a Christian yourself?
I wasn't sure. I listened to some of your podcasts, but I wasn't sure.
Well, how do you define Christian?
I would say that I believe, I'm maybe a theist, I believe in this Christ as a spiritual principle, as a spiritual principle of truth.
I believe he was, so I'm a mythologist, and I'm full Preterist or Israel only or whatever you want to call it.
Right.
I see all the time statements, and I'm like, this wasn't written for us.
And this was obviously led me into the astroph theology and uncovering all the metaphors.
So that's how I, so now I'm more of a mythologist, I would say.
I'm sorry, did you like the, there was a part that I think you might find especially intriguing was when Hypatia was on the roof teaching astronomy.
Okay.
Do you remember that section? Did you get to that?
I don't think I've actually got to that part yet.
Okay, okay. That's something that I thought maybe you would like that kind of touches on a lot of astroph theology.
Okay.
And to do with Christianity too.
Okay, yeah. Yeah, I would love that.
I'm sure.
Yeah, I've only been getting into astroph theology for about a year or so now.
So it's, I'm still pretty new at a lot of this time.
I'm digging as much as I can.
I just bought 11 books last month.
Yeah, can't read them all at once though.
No, not quite.
I know I'm always reading two or three books at once.
I know how it is.
Yeah, so, yeah.
Well, you got to love this one.
And I love what it does with the esoteric, the astroph theology, but also a pet area of mine is Gamatria.
And so I'd like to hear from you, Edwin, what made you settle on the Gamatria angle?
And just for our listeners who may not be familiar with Gamatria, it is the study of the numerical value of letters, words, and phrases.
Because the original languages in works, including the Bible, right, in the ancient Near East, were alphanumeric, where the letters also represented numbers.
So how did you settle on making that method so central to the book, to the treasure hunt that the book is about?
That came from the Greek Kabbalah by Kieran Berry.
That was, there was enough, it wasn't just learning about Gamatria there.
It was that he had an index even at the end where there are all these words and their numerical, the number that goes along with them.
And it was almost, that was a treasure trove for me.
You know, that is what was part of what made me write this book.
I think if I didn't have those two books, especially, I wouldn't have written this book.
There was no way to do it in such a way.
I wanted to do it as a treasure hunt and, you know, codes to break.
You know, just because that's kind of fun and exciting to do it that way.
And so that was really it.
The numerology was all in there, ancient mysticism and this and that.
And it made it kind of a fun way to approach this.
So Lex had to then put his self into the mind of Hypatia and how they, you know, how she would have thought and how, what they would have thought at the time and what made sense.
You know, so he reasoned things out always through that lens.
So it helped to have these books anyway. I couldn't do it without really.
Well, it was a lot of fun to read and I'm glad you picked Gamatria because I said, oh, this is kind of the work that I've been waiting for that gives it this treatment where it's essential to solving the puzzle of the book.
And in fact, I love the interactive dimension that you provide.
I think on your website, you've released a Gamatria chart where people can actually see what the numerical values are and they can understand it and even practice it.
So I think that's great.
Has there been a lot of response or people who have maybe been turned on to Gamatria because of your book?
Possibly. It was more, I had the chart on there to it's downloadable and printable so that people who are reading the book, especially if you have the ebook, how do you, you know, how do you look at what Lex is solving without referring to it if you wanted to refer to it to make sure it worked out.
Some of these puzzles, you know, they work on some of them are ancient, some I made up, but some are ancient riddles and ancient puzzles from way back around that time.
And so where was I going with that?
Yeah, so I had to put that chart up so that people could refer to it.
If someone wants to read the book, it really helps to refer to that if you're going to get into it to that extent. Some people don't, they just want the story.
And so they breeze through the story itself and say, well, I assume it's right.
I'm always thinking, well, there could be people who want to, you know, want to verify it. So go ahead and verify.
I guarantee you with the skeptical crowd, you're going to find people who want to know, what is this Gamatria thing?
So you do a really great, great job with that.
What is that website real quick? If you don't mind, go ahead and plug that website.
www.mythoscrystals.com. And I say it like that, mythoscrystals, but I understand that that's not the technically anchor way of saying it.
You know, if you're going Greek, but that's just how I normally say it.
I don't know why, but every time I hear it said that way, it reminds me of that movie in the book of the Count of Monte Cristo.
You know, like it's just, it has this awesome and I love that movie and that book as well.
And so it takes you through this journey and you can only imagine the struggle the characters go through. So it's really cool.
So I want to shift gears just a minute because I personally, just in the past, I'd say year and a half when I discovered synchronistic ideas of myths,
really someone laid it on me a few years ago and I was in, how do I put this?
I'm not trying to sound funny for our audience, but I was in the box.
Okay. And while I was in the box, someone laid it on me and said, do you see how this person patterns this person, except they're culturally different?
And do you see, and they kept showing these patterns and parallels that kept going.
I was resistant and a little bit reluctant and I found it to be obvious after a while.
Once you see it, it's not able to be unseen.
And so then you have these people who come on the scene.
Richard Carrier, Dr. Robert M. Price and so forth, who say, hey, you realize he's mythology, but how much mythology is he?
And so I wanted to talk about the historical verse, the mythical status of Jesus, a longtime student.
You are of the Christ myth hypothesis.
What in your mind, this is your opinion.
It's almost like saying, what's your favorite song?
What in your mind is the most powerful argument for Jesus being mythical?
And what I mean by mythical, I would say full fledged myth, mythicist approach.
Yeah, which is what I am now.
I'm just going to kind of couch this in a bit of history here.
I kind of became a mythicist slowly.
And once I got to Acharya asked his books, I kind of thought, yeah, he probably is a myth.
But when Richard Carrier, he wrote a bunch of us and said, you know, his followers on his blog and he said, you know, I want to write a book.
And I just want you to answer what you would want me to write about.
And if people fund me, I'll write it.
And everybody was unanimous.
Everyone said, you know, the historicity of Jesus, which I don't think Carrier really wanted to do.
He's into ancient science and stuff like that.
So he did it and it took a while, but I was one of the ones who funded him, you know, one of the benefactors.
And so I mentioned, my real name is mentioned in his book.
So he went with Proving History and On the Historicity of Jesus.
And I think if you read Proving History and On the Historicity of Jesus, you will get my opinion on exactly why I think Jesus was a myth.
I think one of the main reasons is Philo of Alexandria and how he shows that there was an actual pre-Christian belief
that there was a heavenly, this was a belief, that there was a heavenly angel, the eldest angel, and son of God, actually named Jesus.
And how that came about, which Philo then embellished as his logos, logos.
And so that's, I think that was really the thrust of it.
It's that Philo talks about, how was it where he's, oh boy, I don't remember now, but I think I'm kind of conflating two things here.
There was the ascension of Isaiah, who in that book, which is also really ancient like that, and it talks about Jesus coming down through the heavens.
And there are seven layers of heaven, you know, this is how they thought back then.
And in each heaven, Jesus, as he's coming down, he has to have, you know, keys and passwords to get in, he has to dress like them.
You know, weird, weird.
And anyway, then he's finally crucified in like the lowest heaven, just below the lunar orb.
And then he goes to, you know, hell, the underworld, and then he goes back up and ascends again.
And so a lot of this stuff kind of went together, and I think this all leads a lot of us to conclude that Jesus was really taken from some of these more ancient sources.
You know, and so you get the gospel Jesus, like Paul, he doesn't, the way he Paul.
Can you hear him?
Hey, Ed, when I think we lost you for a second there, brother.
I'm hearing myself.
Oh.
Okay, I can hear you now.
You're good now, brother.
Okay.
Where did I stop?
About 10 seconds before.
The Ascent by Isaiah and, well, anyway, so Carrier has the right idea.
And if you read his books, you'll get the gist of the thing, and he really puts it in a powerful argument.
And it's really hard for me to see a way around that now.
So I'm fairly convinced, but that doesn't mean I'm 100% either, you know, I never want to say that.
I can agree.
And I think a lot of us here would agree with that.
I mean, I get bounced back and forth.
And I asked Dr. Robert M. Price when we had a sit down in his living room, you know, I said, Hey, what do you think is the strongest argument for historical Jesus, just to reverse the role a little bit?
And he was like, Well, there's a book written.
I don't remember who it was, but he said it's a conglomeration of these messianic people and like this combination of people put into one story about a guy.
But really, it's like a historical fiction.
But did you have something you wanted to talk about, Kevin?
Yeah, well, I'm just kind of finding out.
You had the original name of God as Azaris in the initiation of Hypatia into the mysteries of Isis.
Right, that's Osiris' older name, Azaris.
Okay.
And the prompting of the summons of El Azaris come forth.
Right, right, right.
Right.
So this is the highlight you highlight.
It's associated with the pronounced distinctive Dematria.
And the story of Lazarus being raised from the dead, which is told in John 11 is associated with the numbers 1290 and 1335, which appear in the book of Daniel 12, chapter 12, verse 11 to 12.
Naturally, a light bulb goes on, as we say.
Wait a minute.
El Azaris come forth is like Lazarus come forth, a connection I never actually knew about until now.
So between Egyptian theology and Christian theology, because I've heard about things like that coming from a lot of the stuff in the Bible comes from Egyptian theology.
So this is something I'm excited to learn more about too.
Yeah, and you know, I don't know that I would take that with, hmm, I wouldn't get too serious about that particular one where, you know, as though Lazarus comes forth, did it really have anything to do with Osiris?
Well, I don't know.
It's hard to make that connection for real.
It sounded good and it was kind of a little trick upon.
Yeah.
I don't know.
You could make that, I suppose you could make the argument, you know, just because Osiris.
Oh yeah, it sure sounds good.
You know, arose from the dead and that kind of stuff.
But I wouldn't, I guess I wouldn't take that one too seriously, you know.
Can we have a little bit of faith for just a moment and just believe that it is?
Sure, go ahead.
Okay, okay, Edwin.
Yes, sir.
Time to take the covers off, man.
Okay, look, there's a lot more that you deal with in the book.
For example, one of the characters that's accustomed to working with Hypatia finds a dinosaur of tooth, if I understood this right.
And so that seems to, okay, so here you have this giant artifact and there's not a lot that said about it, but it's there.
It's in the story.
And I'm going to myself, I'm going, wait a minute, he's taking on the young earth creationists.
So, so you got that in there.
And then a little later you explain the sun walking on water and in the Bible, of course, we see Jesus walking on water and you explain that in terms of the summer solstice.
And so, you know, which is that period, that time of year where the sun stands still before it begins to descend into the fall season.
And so with that, you're messing with the Christian literalists.
So, your book is a myth-busting minefield.
You know, every few pages there's an explosion of somebody's myth.
Did you piss off a lot of people by writing this book?
Only if they read it.
If they read it, it'll piss them off.
So, happy to do it.
No.
As far as the, you know, I got a lot of that, the solar mythology stuff from Acharya House, DM Murdoch.
And a lot of people are saying, well, you know, that's not really accurate now.
And the walking on water had nothing to do with that.
And so, all right, I wanted it in there just to show that there was a solar mythology that it's, you know, you could take.
That was kind of the early evolution of mine, too.
Like, at first, I was just thinking, wow, you know, Jesus was a sun god.
You know, but really, Jesus wasn't a sun god until probably the third century when some of the theologians were calling him various aspects of the sun.
Our new son and Saul Novus Noster, you know, so they were likening him to the sun.
And the rising sun, you'd get a sunrise emblem and all this.
But then when the, let's see, I think it was Aurelius, sometime in the 250s, I think, that he had,
he tried to get all the gods of the, the sun gods of the empire to kind of come together on one day and just celebrate one day instead of having all these different celebrations.
Let's have one day and we're going to, you know, since they're sun gods, we're going to have it on, you know, December 25, the end of the solstice period.
You know what I mean?
So the solstice wasn't like one day, like we know it accurately is one day.
Well, for them, it was a solstice period of three days where the sun dies and then arises finally when you can perceptively see it coming north again.
So that, so Christmas and Saturnalia and all these were celebrated around, they were all solstice celebrations.
And so he made it one, what do you call it, the Natalis Invictus, the birth of the invincible sun.
And so that was, December 25 was that.
And so everyone then in their, in Rome, the Roman Empire were to take their gods and if they wanted them to be decent gods that are respectable,
they just about had to have them be a bit of a sun god too and born on December 25 so they could celebrate it too.
And so I think a lot of it just came from all of this stuff.
Early on, Jesus was not, the Jesus, what I call Jesus myth, was not anything really to do with the sun or not much anyway.
Another Philo called, I guess Philo said something about, behold, a man called Rises, but he's all, you can also put in sunrise for that.
And Carrier said, yeah, that's a good interpretation of that word.
So, behold, a man called Sunrise, Philo says, you know, and I think eventually was talking about this.
Jesus, Ben, what was it, Ben Jehoshedek or something like that, which is like son of Jehovah the Righteous.
So, you know, here you have Jesus, son of Jehovah the Righteous.
And Philo's talking about, and Philo never mentions a word about an actual Jesus in Jerusalem or Galilee or anywhere around.
He never talks about that, even though he had relations right there in the area and he lived right through the period.
Never says a word.
So, that's another argument, it's the silence argument, but a lot of people say it's a weak argument.
But I don't know, it's still, you know, if he had been there and done what he's supposed to have.
Yeah.
I think we lost you, Edwin.
Are you there, brother?
I'm not sure for a second, or either that or a demon of death and your speech was, something happened there.
Something happened, just my clothes were suddenly laying on the floor there.
No, and this is interesting that you're bringing this up because my research is evolving.
I can't put my finger on anything exactly.
Someone said it to me recently, this Jesus story that we're finding in the New Testament is like a Frankenstein, you know, it's created.
It's made with a variety of things.
My research is showing there is some aspects, some worship aspects in it.
It may not only be that, but that there is elements of what we see as ash with the illogical some worship.
But there's also more than just that going on.
There's so much stuff that Luther's research is kind of drawing toward an Alexandrian authorship and that whoever wrote this was well educated in knowing many stories, a broad spectrum of ideas.
And this, how would you pronounce it?
I mean, there's just this huge cluster of ideas that are being thrown in one book.
No wonder Rome, you know, took this thing and ran with it because it just fit right in their pocket, if you will.
I was going to ask you about the book because one of the keys to finding Hypatia's treasure trove is the replica of the lighthouse.
At one point you describe it as not being able to be seen because it lies below the horizon due to the curvature of the earth.
Right.
We have the flat earth earth these days, right?
I was trying to like say, hey, there he goes again.
Derek, there he goes, Kevin.
You know, I really wasn't.
I wasn't even thinking about the flat earth.
They're so ridiculous that I just, that's not even an argument I would even think about going against.
It's just so stupid.
No, I was just showing that, you know, Eratosthenes, he actually measured the circumference of the earth.
I mean, they knew the earth was spherical even way back.
Eratosthenes was something like, what was he?
200, 250 BCE in Alexandria.
So he was there and I'm sure part of it, you know, looking over the horizon and seeing ships disappear was pretty much their idea that,
wow, you know, this is curved.
Let's go find out how big it is.
And he came up with the geometrical way to do it.
And I kind of, I almost added all of that in there too, you know, but my book was getting so long I really had to cut back.
My book started out around 160,000 words, more than that.
And I had to really cut back to get it under 140.
Yeah, so a lot of information I just had to trim.
Yeah.
Info dumps.
Yeah, what was your method in writing the book?
Did you assemble all the truths or the facts first?
Or did you lay them out?
Or did you sprinkle them into the story and then you design your story and then add in the information sort of thing?
Yeah, I think it was more like that.
Design the story and then...
Okay, yeah.
One of the things I like is there's a lot of intrigue in this book and the layers of bureaucracy, you know, a really good job with that.
You've got the Pontifical Biblical Commission and then behind that the lurkings of the Vatican archives and then behind that the Knights of St. George.
Maybe I could talk about this.
Yeah, you did a really good job with that.
Thanks.
Yeah, I made up the whole St. George thing.
You know, I just figured why not get some evil guys in there.
It's kind of fun, isn't it?
Well, yeah, it is.
And the sinister name for, you know, Stefanos, I'm looking at your sinister characters and that's...let me see.
Basilio Regulus, did I get that right?
Yes.
Okay, Basilio Regulus and Basilio, meaning king or ruler, and Regulus, which is the brightest star in the constellation Leo.
Right.
And I'm going, I say, well, I said that's a lot of astral theology because in that mention of Regulus, you have Leo the lion which opposes the sign of the zodiac on the opposite side, which is Aquarius.
And so you have Aquarius and Leo, Leo represented by Herod in the scriptures, Aquarius represented by John the Baptist.
And I'm going, okay, he nailed the evil king.
You know, really good job.
Give a lot to this.
Right, right.
And a lot of the names mean something.
You're onto that.
The Regulus also is related to Rax, which means king.
So Regulus, they named that star in Leo on purpose.
They wanted to call it king.
So Basilio and Regulus both mean king or ruler.
And then Stephanos means crown.
So, you know, there's a lot of, if you know etymology, you're going to see a lot of interesting names in this book, words, names, and a lot of some weird ones too, totally on purpose.
But I want to, you know, it's nice when people recognize such things, but I think most people, it just slides right on by.
You know, your book's filled with archetypes.
Not only is Lex the modern phyloletheon, okay, but we are Lex, and therefore phyloletheon.
Everyone can relate to these well-chosen archetypes.
Yeah, right.
Yeah, I would think that Mythos Christos appeals to a wider audience than the first imagined audience, or maybe inspired audience, or even some non-orthodox Christians or Christians who lean toward esotericism.
What about non-orthodox Christians?
How have they responded to your book or how have people been responding to your book?
Non-orthodox Christians.
You know, the people who read my book or have written reviews on it, they don't tell me always what their religious views are, they just sort of, they write it.
I think a lot of them came from Facebook, my Facebook page, and my friends there, and so I think a lot of them who read it were not Christians at all.
I think a lot of them are atheists, but there have been some Christians reading it, and some liked it regardless.
I'm trying to think. There were certain reviewers, there were some reviewers who took it off of NetGalley, because I put it on NetGalley because a lot of reviewers will find a book there and they'll read it and they'll review it.
And you can, boy, that's a mixed bag, you can really get in trouble doing that.
What's NetGalley?
NetGalley is a place where you can put your book where reviewers, it's like a web page, and people, yeah, reviewers who are professional, sometimes professional reviewers will read it and then they'll give you a review.
Well, some of them, if they don't like your premise, ooh, they lay India.
But there was one, you can look at it on Amazon and Goodreads, she has, well, she gave it five stars, she gave this longest book review I've ever seen in there.
I mean, it was pages and pages full of it, like reviewing, going through every part of it. She parsed it, but she just absolutely loved it.
You know, it's one of these, I want to print off and read it when I'm feeling down.
Wow, okay, that's always nice.
Edwin, what's the most surprising reaction you've ever gotten to your book?
Let's see, I think, I don't know if there was really anything too surprising.
One of them was that woman being just so, you know, so positive about it. That was surprising.
This other woman, she is totally orthodox.
What do you call those, the Lutherans who are absolutely just overboard, the Welleslians or Wesleyans? What are they?
Anyway, she was one of those and she wasn't going to see anything positive here.
She's the one who was telling me that I made my characters ugly on purpose.
You know, the Christians ugly and the other people not ugly, and I thought, I didn't really do that on purpose.
You know, maybe subconsciously I did, I don't know, but I didn't mean to.
That was about as surprising as it got.
I don't think you were mean-spirited about it at all, and I think my co-hosts will share that.
The book has everything that you expect in it.
