The History of Mythicism. If you wanted to understand where mythicism plays a role in history,
this will be an interesting topic. He's not arguing for or against historicity or mythicism,
but he's going to take you into the history, Christopher Hansen. He's read over 200 books.
A lot of sources get named here, and if you go down in the description, you will see a lot of
these sources listed for you guys to be able to investigate yourself if you're interested.
I hope you guys enjoyed this video because all of our biases can sometimes come out,
and Christopher Hansen did a really good job, in my opinion, of not being overly biased against
mythicism, even though he documents the history as best he can in this documentation. I hope you
guys liked the video. Subscribe to the channel and hit the bell, and comment down below your thoughts
of the history of mythicism, maybe your thoughts about what Christopher Hansen has to say about
mythicism. I'm interested in hearing what you have to say, and if you guys want to,
you can join MythVision by becoming a patron.
We are MythVision. Welcome back, ladies and gentlemen. I have Christopher Hansen today.
What's up, my brother?
Not much. Just working on a whole bunch of research for stuff that nobody knows about.
That's what it sounds like to me. I said, we got to get all MythVision fans to check this out,
because, first of all, a lot of people who watch my show are mythicists. A lot of them
are historicists. They have various degrees of thought, what this means, and who the guy was,
or what he's based off of, and there's a variety of different things. I figure,
what better than to spin off the title you and me came up with? What are we going to title this show?
The Quest for the Mythical Jesus. The Quest of Albert Schweitzer today.
Nice. I like that. There's a history behind mythicism, at least as we know it.
As far as we can see what mythicism is, that can be a broad range of things. Go ahead.
I think the first thing that we should talk about before we get really into the deep history
is that the term mythicism is actually a pretty problematic one, just in general. When we're
trying to analyze the historical roots of mythicism, it's good to try and figure out what mythicism
actually should be categorized as. The first thing I'm going to just talk about here is,
how do I categorize it? When it comes to mythicism specifically, I argue that we should only define
as those who deny the historical existence of Jesus. That is denying all kinds of a historical
Jesus. There are going to be people like G.R.S. Mead, as we'll see, and Alvar Elegard, who argue
that there might have been a historical figure in the distant past, or he was historical and he was
like 100 years before, or there are going to be others. I think he was a composite figure based
on historical figures, or that he was a completely different figure. Some are arguing that he was
like a son of Julius Caesar and stuff like that. Okay, pause. You just loaded us with some really
interesting things. Let me just point out something that's interesting. This falls into the category.
The category that we talked about last time when you were with Dr. Price about this,
this was really interesting. If someone thinks that he's kind of a blend of different historical
characters, that falls into this category. You're going to say that all of those are going to be,
in my opinion, a version of a historicist. Okay, got it. Because they think that there's a historical
core. Now there are going to be composite theorists that do think that he's all mythical and based
off just mythical figures. There also going to be composite theorists that think that he's a blend
of mythical and historical figures, in which case the lines of historicity and mythicism become
very much blurred. Mythicism is the positive position that there is no historical Jesus.
They make it an affirmative argument that there was no historical Jesus. Mythicists are going to
include people like Dr. Richard Carrier, or other figures of history like Arthur Drev's,
Albert Kolthoff, Bruno Bauer, these kinds of figures. Then there's going to be a lesser version
of that, which could be a Jesus agnostic. Jesus agnostics can kind of favor one side or another,
but their ultimate position is that we can't make any firm conclusions either way.
So they bit. Is it fair to, I have to say, is it fair to say, as much as Dr. Price has written on
the Christmah theory, he also has told me, you know, we're not certain. Like he's like, you know,
there could have been a guy and I'm just not aware of it. I just don't think we have enough evidence.
He doesn't believe the evidence for him is good enough. So could he be agnostic or would you put
him in the category of Dr. Carrier? Because him and Dr. Carrier agree in a lot of ways too. So.
Yeah, with Dr. Price, I personally reserved about actually categorizing him in this because
he's preferred a completely different term just in general. Dr. Price, as I understand it, and as
I've read from his material, prefers to actually be called a New Testament minimalist, basically
following the lines of the Copenhagen School of Biblical Minimalism like Thomas L. Thompson
and people like that. Interesting. In that line, I think we would close, he'd be closer to probably
an agnostic. Okay. The minimalists are generally along those lines as well. So like Thomas L.
Thompson is part of the Copenhagen School at the university, it was at the University of Copenhagen,
that's very taught. And he is officially, to my knowledge, agnostic on the topic of Jesus's existence.
Another figure who's actually very well known now has a peer reviewed book on the subject is
Raphael Logister. I don't know if I'm pronouncing his name correctly. He's agnostic, right? Yeah.
He's completely agnostic on the subject. His book is in favor of agnosticism, primarily,
though he does have a passage that is in favor of mythicism. But he officially takes an agnostic
stance. Hector Avalos also takes an agnostic stance as well. Interesting. So then there's other,
so then from there, I categorize different types of historicists. There is the traditional
historicist, which is what I am. We think that there was an identifiable Jesus,
somewhat, as the Gospels describe, crucified, et cetera, et cetera. Okay, basic, basic.
Would you consider it like a minimal historicity? Like even a bit, a minimal history,
historicity, as I think Carrier would define it. And then there is, after that, there are identity
historicists. Identity historicists, they think that Jesus was real, but he's a different figure.
So Lena Einhorn thinks that Jesus was the Egyptian prophet, for example. Then there are those that
think that Jesus was the composite figure that we already talked about. And then there are temporal
historicists who think Jesus existed, but that he existed in a different time frame,
which is also a part of Lena Einhorn's theory. Lena Einhorn's theory is that the entire Gospels
were time shifted. I actually interviewed her. It was a good interview. But yeah, it's an interesting
theory. Yeah. So there are a lot of different theories out there. There's also Luigi Cascioli,
before he passed away. He thought that the historical figure behind everything was John of
Gamala. Others thought, others have thought he was Judas the Galilean. One figure we'll look at
today also thought that he was Barabbas. So there's a whole wide variety. And then there's one other
category, which are race theorists. I'm not going to focus on them as much today because it's much
more of a hot button issue. But they are generally aligned with taking different historicist or
mythicist approaches based off of racial ideology. Can you give a name of a few of those groups?
On the side of white supremacists, there are figures like Revealio Oliver. There was Ben
Klassen and the Church of the Creator. The Church of the Creator is an actual white supremacist
religion that holds Jesus did not exist as part of doctrine. The work that you read in that is
extremely hard to read from personal experience. It's very bad. The theory is basically that Jesus
was never existed and he was an invention by the Jews in order to destroy the Roman Empire.
It gets pretty absurd sometimes. There's also those then on a completely different side of which
are the Afrocentric scholars. There's a number of them actually still around today in universities
and they argue usually for either that Jesus didn't exist or that he may have been an African or
that he was identified with an African figure. So there's one that actually argued that Jesus
was King Tut. Oh wow. Yeah, those can get pretty interesting as well. Both of these groups in the
race theorists clicks basically. Yeah, usually never are criticized or talked about by other
academics. They're for the most part pretty much ignored. They're about the only group besides them
and then as we'll also see women, they're about the only ones that are really just actively ignored
by academics. So with that, now that we have our categories set, when we're going to talk about
today, I'm going to primarily focus on mythicism and also talk about agnosticism as well because
those two are generally pretty closely related. Right. So what I'm going to go through is try
and trace it from our earliest sources to the present in a basically a broad view for everyone
and then anytime we want to zoom in, feel free. If you're biased, get rid of them now because
he's going to dig up some bones boys. Oh, there's going to be a lot of bones dug up and there's
going to be a lot of things that both historicists and mythists alike have liked to say in the past
that are by and large just false. Okay. From what I've determined, there are a lot of
a lot of like click baby things that are just not correct at all about the history of mythicism.
Okay. I want to say up front before you get into this because it's going to be really
a good interesting history and you're going to give us an airplane view. If we can zoom in, we will.
For anyone who's watching this, if you haven't noticed so far on myth vision, this is not mythicist
vision. Okay. This is myth vision. We look at mythology. I myself came to the mythicist conclusion
from I'd say more of an allegorical approach and I started to apply that in the New Testament.
Didn't realize that you can still have mythology and have your Jesus. Right. There could be a guy.
It doesn't doesn't necessitate that. And I just want to say to the audience who's watching,
myth vision is a journey guys. We're on a journey to try and understand what's really going on. We
really want to find the guy. Okay. If there is one, we're not going to beat around the bush. We're
not going to play games. We're not going to say there couldn't have been because no, we really
want to look and try and understand. And at the end of the day, if we don't have sufficient evidence
to be concluding something, I'm not going to do it. However, I really do want to search and find
the guy. I want to understand. And sometimes I also want to know why I became a mythicist or
where did this movement that I got into come from? What are the differing ideas? So
that being said, I'm here to entertain someone who is not a mythicist. In fact, writes against
mythicism. And why would I do that? Am I not a religious nut that's a tinfoil hat wearing
mythicist since no, I'm agnostic on the question. I fit into some of these categories probably,
but willing to change my mind for sure as I research. So I just want to say that up front for
anyone watching, you know, thank you for coming on and sharing this with us. And I'm interested
in hearing what you have to teach me. Okay. So with this, let's just start. First, I'm just going
to dispel a few claims of earlier antecedents of mythicism. There are a few claims that we
can trace it early on and stuff like that. So for example, it's very common for people on the
mythicist side to argue that in Justin Martyr's dialogue with Trifo, that Trifo says Jesus doesn't
exist when he says you invent a Christ for yourself. I personally do when I, in my research, I'm
with my book, I'm writing on this topic, don't consider this valid, because I think that
Trifo is just talking about the Christ in general as the Messiah. He's saying they're inventing a
Christ, not a Jesus. I think that there are two Russian scholars that basically handled this
problem fairly well and showed it was that trend was just incorrect. For those that are wondering,
Alexander Men, and then another Russian, an English scholar who is a communist, Archibald
Robertson. So these books are The Son of Man and the Origins of Christianity for those that are
interested. They're a little bit hard to come by. Origins of Christianity is easier. Son of Man has
only been printed in English once in the 90s, so it's a little harder to come by, but it's definitely
worth the read. So I'm not going to be talking, considering Trifo in this. So when we get to
more modern times, and actually trying to theorize about this, there was a claim going around that
there were two different popes that were mythicists. One of them, I believe it was
Pope Paul III, he was polemicized in a work by a Frenchman named DeCormann,
Cormann, and what happened was that there was a big trend that developed out of that of people
claiming that this pope was a mythicist. The problem is that there's actually no evidence
that what DeCormann wrote actually went back to the time of that pope, but it's still caught on.
So in the works of a guy Fowl, who's a French mythicist in the 60s, he copied this down and
tried to spread this out, and then some of the Greek mythicists today tend to spout this.
It's an unsubstantiated claim. We cannot actually substantiate this, it's true.
If you don't mind me just zooming in a little, this pope that they're claiming was a mythicist,
when did that pope exist? In the 1500s. Another pope in the 1500s that has been
occasionally claimed to be a mythicist is Leo X. Pope Leo X was towards the latter half of the
1500s. Unfortunately, the only evidence we have of this is a work by John Bale, who was a
very anti-Papal figure, and he was very well known for polemicizing them.
So he could have been being derogatory in a sense.
Exactly. Well, and then what he said also, what he claimed that Leo X said, is also really ambiguous
because he says that this fable of Christ has been very profitable for us. The problem is that it's
really hard to tell what fable of Christ actually means because we have no context to go with it.
Even if, and this is another thing, you got a good point there, even if one thought the Christ was
a fable, I mean, I think it's a fable, doesn't mean there wasn't a historical guy that was built on
him. So okay, got it. Exactly. So there's a whole lot of problems trying to actually interpret that,
and there's also then the problem of, is it even legitimate? Did the pope even say that? I don't
think he did. I think that it's just a polemic. So the first confirmed reference I can find to
someone that was either a mythicist or agnostic, it's hard to tell which, is in the work of Edward
Stillingfleet in 1677. Edward Stillingfleet was a theologian and he wrote against deists of that,
so basically the earliest critics of the church were usually either deists or pantheists in some
way, or usually like super early developing liberal Christians in some way. So this deist,
he doesn't name. There are a few theories as to who this is, but they're hard to get into and I'm
not going to do it here. But anyways, this deist wrote against the authenticity of Tacitus,
against the authenticity of Josephus, and then seemed to argue that Jesus did not exist as a
historical figure. And Edward Stillingfleet, luckily for us, preserved some quotes from what he said,
and then also what we have are his rebuttals. And so Stillingfleet goes through an entire list of
arguments for why this deist is wrong. Unfortunately, we don't have the deist's work
itself left. We only have what's preserved in Edward Stillingfleet. So I am hesitant to categorize
him as either a mythicist or agnostic. I leave him open for either category. But he seems to think
that there may not have been a historical Jesus at all. And this would be the earliest figure then
that seems to indicate this. The next earliest references we start to have are then on Thomas
Wolston, who seemed to cast out on the on the historicity of Jesus, but he's also really
inconsistent with his own views, because he liked to have these weird metaphorical exposés on the
gospels just in general. And it becomes really hard to actually figure out what he is saying at times.
But some commentators do think that he was casting doubt on the historicity of Jesus. So I tend to
take those views and be charitable in that direction. Another very early trend was actually
to claim that Quakers were mythicists. This was a polemic usually done by Protestants of the day.
And it was basically to demonize Quakers at any chance they got. So in the work of
Moshe Lorenz, there is a polemic in there claiming that the Quakers only believed that Jesus existed
in the hearts of the faithful. And this polemic was continued for about a century, almost verbatim.
It looked like it was a stock polemic of some kind that everyone just knew and used to discredit them.
Continuing on from that, the first active mythicists that we can confirm in my opinion
was in the reference in the work of Voltaire. Towards the end of his life, Voltaire wrote this
one book where he records that followers of Lord Bullingbroke, who was an English deist,
came to him one day and wrote that they had thought they had discovered that Jesus probably
never existed. And their main arguments were actually based off of the contradicting genealogies
in Luke and Matthew. Voltaire was not very kind to them. Voltaire referred to them as more ingenious
than learned. And he then actually wrote an entire rebuttal to them on why Jesus probably existed.
And it's worth noting this specifically with Voltaire because Voltaire was no ally of Christianity
by any means. He was pretty against Christian authority in a lot of ways.
And these guys that Voltaire records, these are our earliest mythicists on record.
Unfortunately for us, it doesn't look like they actually had any influence outside of this.
Voltaire's the only one to mention them. It doesn't look like they were around very long
or their ideas may have just died with them. If they did spread, they're not recorded at all
after that point. So actually, where our main start of mythicism as a something that everyone
basically just started endorsing and stemming their ideas from, actually began starting with
the works of Constantine Colm de Volnais in France and his friend Charles Francois Dupuis.
Constantine Volnais was the earliest one to publish, but he wasn't the first one of those two
to write. So I'll start with Volnais just because he published first. Volnais' work was primarily
based off of drafts of Dupuis' work. Volnais, though, unlike Dupuis, was not actually a mythicist
despite what Bart Ehrman, Robert Van Borst, and even other mythicists have claimed.
He was not actually a mythicist himself. He actually did think that there was a historical
figure and you primarily thought that because of the idea of messianism necessitated that they
would have believed in a historical figure of some kind. For those that are interested in this,
George Albert Wells had wrote an excellent paper in the 1960s summarizing Dupuis and Volnais' views
where he specifically noted that Volnais was not a mythicist at all. This is one of those trends
for mythicists and historicists alike that just needs to end. So question, this is a good stopping
point for real quick, just to get where we're at in history. What year is this? We're in the early
1790s now. Okay. Bollingbroke's followers are in the 1760s. The polemics from the Quakers are from
the early 1700s to the late 1700s and early 1800s around there. In between there, also just throughout
there, there are also scattered possible references to mythicists also in French and German work.
I won't get into them because they're just side mentions, they're really tiny,
but it's just worth noting that they are there. So there's a developing idea, so to speak, that
could be going on or trends of ideas that are going on with this. They seem to circulate primarily
among deists of the day. Oh, okay. Okay. You're good. So in terms of, to show this,
Bollingbroke's followers were deists. The earliest mythicists we, slash agnostic, we have as a deist
and then Volnais and Dupuis were deists as well. So Volnais' work is notable, not specifically
because he's a mythicist, but because of how influential the work became. He wrote Le Rouen's
de Empire, which basically the ruins of the empires. It's a work that became extremely famous
because actually our later American president, Thomas Jefferson, translated it into English,
removed his name from it, and then published it with the help of Joel Barlow. Joel Barlow
was also an early activist and basically a proto-free thought activist in a way. And so
basically with the help of Thomas Jefferson, his work became influential throughout the English
speaking world. Ironically, despite the fact that it had influence in the French Revolution,
later on Volnais' work just disappeared in his home brands. Same as also Dupuis' work. Dupuis'
work had actually a lot less influence than Volnais because it was so much larger, in my opinion.
Volnais' work is actually pretty accessibly small. Dupuis' work is a massive tome. It's about,
it's like Carrier's book-sized tome. So basically, because of Thomas Jefferson,
Volnais' work got disseminated. And so this is where mythicism just spreads like that
as an idea. So after that point, I know for a fact that Thomas Paine, the famous philosopher who
inspired our founding fathers and their philosophy quite a lot, he was a mythicist. It's also worth
noting all of these early mythicists were usually of the astrothiology kind. That's what I was going
to ask you about Reverend Robert Taylor and his devil's pulpit. Yeah, I'm going to get to him
actually pretty soon here. I'm going to start with the United States first because it's easier to get
a handle on it. The English mythicists are a lot more complicated as a whole. Okay. So in the United
States, I am pretty confident that Thomas Jefferson was a mythicist. There are records from people
that had access to his letters and then also some of his correspondences that strongly indicate that
he probably was an astrothiological mythicist of some kind. Then there are, on top of that,
we know that George Washington had all of Volnais' work. You can actually find the records of it
in the Washington Library. You can look through the catalog of his personal library and you'll
all Volnais' work is there. You'll also find the responses to Volnais' work there as well.
Washington seemed to have very closely kept up with all of that debate.
Why would that be important to him? It's interesting. Unfortunately, he did not leave any
writings that I have found that would indicate he was a mythicist. At best, all I can say is that it
was an interesting side thing he liked to read about. We also know that later on Abraham Lincoln
also had Volnais' work. We have at least three presidents that seem to have had some knowledge
of this debate. But where it actually spread the most, and we have the most record of, is actually
among laity. This is actually primarily where mythicism has stayed consistently throughout
history, is among the laity in the world. The records primarily come from early free thought
magazines and periodicals that were being published in the United States and the same thing also in
Europe. In these free thought periodicals and stuff, you find people usually writing anonymously
or just under initials that are never clarified, that Jesus didn't exist in some way. Lots of them
are usually astrothiological mythicists of some kind, but the vast majority of them are. I have
records of actually one specific mythicist who wrote some, probably some 15 or 20 articles
in a single free thought journal over the span of a year in favor of mythicism.
We don't know who it was. The person never signed their name, but they wrote them all
under the same name, and it seemed like it was a continuation, almost like he was serializing a
book, whoever this person was. This is basically what it was like in early United States, and this
is early 1800s now. In the early 1800s in Europe, we have a very different matter, because we know
who was involved directly. There are earliest major mythicists, Richard Carlisle, Robert Taylor,
and then also a woman, Eliza Sharples. I'm specifically going to be noting Eliza Sharples
here, and I'm going to actually put a lot of focus on women throughout this discussion,
because they are completely overlooked in this history, and they're completely overlooked today.
Like Acharya? I'm just saying. Well, yeah. I mean, Acharya is the only one that actually gets regular
reference. Right. So I'm going to focus on them a bit, but basically Richard Carlisle and Robert
Taylor were our earliest figures, majorly associated with it in England. They were part
of the burgeoning free thought movements in England. There were quite a few of them starting to go
around. There was Carlisle's group, and then there were also like the Owenites and a few others,
and they were predominantly popular among the working class. E.P. Thompson has a great book
on this, so I highly suggest everyone just read that book. But basically what we end up finding
throughout this is, first, an astrological argument for Jesus is consistent. These figures were
primarily inspired by the astrological idea and arguments against the New Testament by Thomas Payne
and by Volne. And then on top of this, they were usually also, they had their own innovations
to a degree as well. There was a strong emphasis on comparative study. A lot more than Volne had,
actually. So what you actually find are that most of the dying and rising gods,
I don't think they exist, but most of these dying and rising gods that are usually used today
were first prototyped in like the 1820s. So you find Attis, Adonis, Thomas, and numerous other
figures all referenced by like Robert Taylor and Richard Carlisle. Another one that was popular
among them was also Prometheus. The problem is that actually all their ideas about Prometheus
derived not from ancient sources, but a modern poem that they thought was an ancient poem.
So they had a complete... I didn't know this. Yeah, they had a complete error there. The poem
that they used was actually a modern one, and it's really funny. But they were pretty popular,
actually, among the working class. Robert Taylor basically became a spectacle. He went on tours
across England. He was originally actually a minister, an ordained minister, and he pretty
quickly actually lost his faith, and then he became the devil's chaplain. And so he began publishing
sermons from the devil's pulpit, and they're also called the astrological sermons.
And he also published two books in favor of mythicism, and it also published a pamphlet.
There was a pamphlet. The pamphlet in particular was a hot, hot button issue, because what happened
is when he published that pamphlet, and it's got one thing that they would do because these were
all a bunch of really... These are basically every angsty atheist that's just become an
atheist today. He basically did a Martin Luther with this pamphlet, and he'd go and nail this
mythicist pamphlet on the doors of churches and then in public squares. They would purposely
go out of their way to piss everyone off. And so that ended up getting him a number
of responses. You can actually find most of them available in reprints.
Where do you go to get these prints? You can just find these on Amazon. Okay, okay. Everything I've
gotten here you can either find on Amazon or ABE books. It does get a little harder with some of
the older stuff I'll be showing everyone though, because a lot of this has never been reprinted,
because it's actually still not out of its copyright phase yet in the United States.
So basically what ends up happening is you have these two really angsty dudes
running around, printing a whole bunch of things, and making everyone ticked off. And this is a very
bad time in English history to be doing this, because around this same time are people
passing legislation like the penny stamp tax, and then also things like arresting people for blasphemy
and mass. So Robert Taylor and Richard Carlisle were regularly in and out of prison,
and then on top of this they were absolutely crap with money. Robert Taylor and Richard Carlisle
were usually running their families into the ground into poverty, quite regularly. This put a huge
strain on Carlisle's relationship with his wife Jane. Jane and his sister Mary were instrumental
in running the business and making sure that he got his works published, making sure that his
mythic stuff got published, making sure that the periodicals like the Republican were published.
And it was a huge strain on them, especially also because Richard Carlisle began just fooling
around with a bunch of other women. So what we ended up having in this unfortunate period
was that Jane and Richard basically eventually ended up separated. She still maintained the
business, and it's usually theorized that she was doing it out of spite for the English government,
not because she actually cared about anything that Richard was doing, but she also ended up
being arrested a few times as well. In total, the number of people that were arrested as volunteers
in this business, and the amount of time that they were forced to serve amounted to around 200
years total. So during this period though, after one of the tours and then after they were all
arrested and put in prison, Eliza Sharples had actually seen them on tour and then had borrowed
the books from her cousin's personal library. And after Eliza Sharples father died, she basically
eventually actually turned into a free thought advocate and a women's early woman suffragist
in England. This is in the 1830s for those wanting reference. So what ended up happening is
Robert Taylor got put in prison for around two years because on blasphemy charges. So he couldn't
be on tour anymore. And so when Carlisle got out after about two months, he had no one to
basically be going around and touring and making money. And no one to, and there was no one at
the theater that Carlisle owned called the Rotunda. So what ended up happening is that
first he approached this guy called John Ward, John Zion Ward. He was a figure that seems to have
suffered some kind of problem mentally. Some have argued that it was possibly schizophrenia.
He was convinced that he was an incarnation of both the devil and Christ. And he was convinced he
was a prophet. He got a number of followers actually. He had a surprising following early on,
but he did not stay with Carlisle very long before he went on basically like a missionary tour
of a consortium that was eventually shut down by the British military and ended up with an actual
massacre. So again, Carlisle has no one running things and so he gets Eliza Sharples. And Eliza,
originally, her identity was hid and she was just called the Isis. And then she was also called
the Pythonus of the Rotunda. And basically, Carlisle, despite having written a whole book on
women's suffrage, he was a misogynistic piece of crap. He had no good relationship with any
woman in his life ever. He's frequently abusive, emotionally withholding, whole nine yards.
What he did with Eliza, who had fallen in love with him and they became common law married,
was that he basically marketed her almost like a circus show.
But then on the other hand, he marketed her as the first woman lecturer in England on free
thought, the first woman suffragists and stuff like that. And so, and basically had her repeating
what Robert Taylor and Carlisle himself were doing. Sharples pretty quickly, though, seemed to actually
just stop. We know from her notes, eventually, that she ended up just writing out a bunch of
Taylor's stuff, started at leaving all Taylor's ideas, eventually. But she was a mythicist. She
held that Jesus did not exist in any historical form. She also held that men of the patriarchs
existed, Moses didn't exist. She basically held that none of the Bible at all was historical,
and that it was all a part of these deeper meanings and symbolical meanings that people
had to actually wade through. And what ended up happening is that she developed an entire new
religion. She called it rational Christianity. I know some people who are just like that. I've
actually had people on the show that are just like that. Her whole rational Christianity thing,
we have the whole interpretation of the of the of the Gospels, the whole Bible as basically
symbolical and metaphorical in different ways, and basically illuminating aspects about her
conception of God. What actually ended up happening is that after she basically started
publishing her articles, she published them in in a periodical that she herself edited called Isis.
And when she published those, she that Richard Carlyle, her then husband, actually made a public
statement converting to her rational Christianity from atheism. And then Robert Taylor seemed to
also gotten involved as well. So base, she actually started an entire movement of rational Christians
who didn't think Jesus existed. What eventually ended up happening was that though that
Carlyle was arrested again, the business was basic business was basically forcibly shut down
by the English government. The English government basically decided to actually just put a stamp
on all of the free thought movements going around because they were causing a lot of problems
with dissent against the authority of the government itself, especially because the
English government was very much being condoned by the Anglican church. So they put a stamper on it.
Richard Carlyle was in and out of prison. Eliza Sharples basically was living in poverty.
She had several kids at this point with Carlyle. Richard died in the 1840s and left Sharples
basically destitute with nothing to support her. So she basically had to live the rest of her life
on the support of people that would give her money from the free thought movements around.
She did though, and this is going to be important to note later, she did have connections to Charles
Bradlaw. Charles Bradlaw at the time was a young teenager and actually came to live with her for
some time. He would later form some of the more notable free thought movements and become very
influential to another mythicist, one of the most important mythicists of all history later.
So there's actually a connection. So that's basically what it was like in early England.
Early England is one of the few cases where mythicism was actively actually oppressed
by authorities. In Germany, it's a fairly different story. We do have some indications
that there may have been some mythicists early on in Germany in the 1700s and early 1800s. For
example, in the 1830s, we know that there was a writing from an anonymous German Jew that was
published in English in England. It was basically a series of letters arguing Jesus didn't exist.
There was a mixture of comparative ideas that we've already seen and then also arguments basically
from a very biased Jewish perspective that Jesus didn't exist. But that was about it at that time.
Then there was for Germany, the major figure that actually popped up on the scene was someone that
actually popped up without connection to Volnaire du Puy, a completely independent Bruno Bauer.
Bruno Bauer originally began as actually a conservative Christian and a theologian
and entered academia basically to prove Christianity was true. He was also heavily influenced
by the philosophy of Hegel. Just a side note, Hegel is the worst. Hegel is the root of all evil.
However, Hegel just makes philosophy really complicated.
But basically, other than he's influenced by Hegel, you don't really need to know the specifics for
this video. Basically, Bruno Bauer eventually, though, developed more and more liberal tendencies
and eventually just can't, he eventually just came to a conclusion Jesus probably didn't exist.
But his theory was completely different from what we had previously seen. He didn't rely on the
comparisons between other deities. He didn't rely on astrophiology at all. His was an innovation
in that he came to the conclusion that Jesus didn't exist because he thinks that what actually
happened was that Jesus was an invention basically by Mark to fulfill the social wants and social
tribulations of the communities at the time. He was also the person that would inspire the
Dutch radicals later. He did not think any of the Pauline epistles were authentic. He did not think
any of the Gospels were authentic. And a result from actually his work on the Gospels is what
actually led to him being censored. Basically, after he had lost his faith and was starting to
move in a more mythic direction, he published a series of books arguing against the authenticity
of the Gospels. And these works got the attention of his colleagues. And his colleagues basically
sent a bunch of complaints to the higher ups in the government. And so the government of Germany
initially just said that if he would stop teaching, they would fund his research as long as he just
leave the university. And he said no and kept teaching anyways. And it just went downhill from
there because the government was like, okay, if you're not going to quit it, we're going to make you.
And so they removed his teaching license. And so he was not allowed to teach. His ability to
teach was revoked in the entirety of Germany at the time. At this time, it's actually the Prussian
Empire, but Germany. So with that unfortunate event, he basically became a low working class
citizen after that. If you don't mind me, don't mind me asking here. We probably didn't touch on it
because it's probably not really pertinent. I'm sure it was common that people were anti-Semitic
and stuff, but I heard he was pretty. He was extremely anti-Semitic. So this is actually
actually this is pertinent right now. It is actually pertinent. Because anti-Semitism is
actually unfortunately something very strongly associated with mythicism. And we'll get into
it later on with other mythicists as well. So Bruno Bauer was very anti-religious just in
general, but he was specifically also anti-Semitic as a general rule. He viewed the Hebrew Bible as
completely inferior. As a work of art, he considered Jews to be more problematic than any other
religious group in Germany at the time. He published a book called The Judenfrage, The Jewish Question,
where he advocated that Jews should be forced to give up their religion
because it was a destructive force of society. And this is where he actually had conflict with
a student of his, Karl Marx. Karl Marx was a student of Bruno Bauer, took some theology classes
under him, including in a class on the book of Isaiah. And what ended up happening was Marx,
despite what people have tried to make him out to be, was not inherently anti-religious.
He think that he was against organized religion because he thought it was being used by the
government to oppress the working class. He thought that what organized religion was doing
was being used to make people content with their own oppression. His personal belief was that after
Marxism was adopted, after socialism was adopted, that religion would probably just die out naturally
of its own volition. People would eventually just no longer see a need for it, and it would collapse
on its own. And that's where he came into complete conflict with Bruno Bauer, because Bruno Bauer
and the young Hegelians, like Ludwig Feuerbach and others, were of the active opinion that religion
should not only be removed, it should be actively oppressed, and that it should be attacked, basically.
And Karl Marx thought that verbally attacking religion was a useless endeavor.
He thought that he didn't think it was worth the time or the effort,
and he got butted heads with Bauer over this, because Bauer wanted him to actually join in
starting an atheist journal with him, and Marx wouldn't do it, because he didn't want to be
associated with these anti-religious people. So they ended up having actually a huge falling out,
along with Friedrich Engels as well, ended up on Marx's side of this whole fiasco. Marx and Engels
did not, either of them, end up as mythicists. Despite, again, what like McCleymand and Van
Borst have said, mythicism did not actually reach the Soviet Union through Marx or Engels.
It's just false. Engels was the most sympathetic to it, of the both of them,
but there's no indication that he was actively a mythicist at all.
But they were very much against Bruno Bauer's anti-Semitism.
Marx specifically, because Karl Marx was a Jew. So it was very problematic there.
Unfortunately, this anti-Semitism would become very much a trend of mythicism,
or as associated with it. We see it, as I mentioned before, we see it with these white
supremacist movements, and there's some other movements in early Germany we're going to see
them with later on. So basically, Bruno Bauer continued writing. He lost his position in the
40s, in the 1840s, and he continued writing up until his death in the late 1800s.
His last major work was the Christ in the Caesars, and he argued that Christianity
basically developed out of a mix of Philo's Judaism and out of Stoicism.
That was as far basically as his pagan comparison went, honestly. He didn't get into the whole
pagan deities, like the dying and rising gods, and stuff like that at all, unlike most other
mythicists. This was something that those that closely followed him also did not usually adopt
either, later on. So this basically is how early mythicism looked.
They're on the other side of this. Now we're going to move into the mid and late 1800s.
In the United States, our earliest major figure in the mid 1800s is Kersi Graves.
Everyone knows Kersi Graves at this point, even if it's not by name. They know him specifically
because he's the reason why the list of 16 crucified saviors exists. He published the
World 16 Crucified Saviors in 1875 in its first edition. It was fairly popular among free thought
movements. It is worth noting that it did get quite a bit of backlash as well,
including even from those that weren't actually Christians. So Helena Blavatsky,
who would start a bunch of the Theosophie movements, actively called him out on some of this.
She's actually particularly relevant. Everyone can keep her right there in the back of your minds
because she's relevant and it's going to pop up again.
So what we ended up having there is Kersi Graves was a quasi-spiritualist,
but he was a free thought activist, argued Jesus never existed as a historical figure.
He did it almost exclusively by comparison to other mythological figures. His work was primarily
based off of the work of Godfrey Higgins. Godfrey Higgins, we don't know if he was a
mythicist or not, but his work, Analypsis, which was uncompleted at his death, is absolutely
instrumental to astrothiology now. It is one of the most well-known works associated with it,
especially to people that get into the Egyptian origins ideas of Christianity as well.
Kersi Graves primarily was working off of Higgins. Looks like he also possibly was working off of
Volmae and Dupuy. It's hard to tell because he never cites anything. He's one of those people.
He kind of just, very rare occasion he cites someone, he just mentions their name.
His work became kind of influential in the United States. There were also a few
early women getting involved as well. His work was positively reviewed by Victoria Woodall.
Victoria Woodall ran a journal specifically aimed at women. She was an early women suffragist
and she was the first woman to run for president.
Wow. Yeah. She was influenced by the mythicist works. Possibly. It's hard to tell. All we know
is that she positively reviewed Kersi Graves' work. That's all I have really to indicate she
was involved in that. But there were two other American women who were mythicists as well that
I have found. The first is Elizabeth E. G. Evans. She was primarily raised and educated actually
here in Michigan in Ann Arbor. She was a polyglot. She spoke, she managed, she was able to read and
speak several languages as her books of test and her citations. And she was also fairly well read
for the time. She was an early advocate of Darwinian evolution and tried applying that
to how religion developed. Her first book was a history of religions. And in that book she wasn't
a mythicist yet. She actually made an argument in favor of the historical Jesus. Despite this,
she was still in the comparativist group. Specifically, she had a strong inclination to
compare Jesus and Krishna. This was actually a very common trait among early mythicists and still
kind of exists in some groups today, as we'll see. But despite that, though, she was still
historicist. She was a traditional historicist despite this. She shifted her position
complete 180 later on. It's also worth noting she's kind of,
it's like not surprising, but most early mythicists were pretty racist.
Referring to other groups as savages and primitives and unevolved figures was not uncommon for Elizabeth
Evans to do. The Jews were the Jews she described as bloodthirsty savages and primitives and things
like that. You know, I see this a lot. And it's not, I don't know, I guess it is a form of racism
in a way. Because I mean, for example, with the recent war that we had in the Middle East, I hear
a lot of people talk about the people in the Middle East need to evolve. They need to step up to
modern ethics in modern ways. And they technically are still a blast from the past because they're
still medieval in their thinking and stuff. So I don't know if that's a derogatory sense or was
she using it in derogatory sense? She was kind of using it in a derogatory sense. But it is,
the idea that people are, and their ideas are like medieval or less evolved than ours or anything
like that is in and of itself ethnocentric and Eurocentric very much. Because anytime like us
over here are saying that they're unevolved, because we're saying it by the standards of
people that have predominantly been influenced by Christian morality in our philosophy. And
and we have all this technology and we have a pretty conglomerate view of what morality is
and stuff like that. So when we talk about people having these medieval views, it's a very ethnocentric
thing to do. As if someone is more moral or more evolved than anyone else. Yeah, I didn't want
to get rabbit-trailed into a bunch of that. It is relevant to this discussion though, because it
is something that comes up a lot, unfortunately, in mythicism. I guess, and this is just my personal
pet peeve. As a Christian, I was hardcore fundamentalist. I was like hook, line and sinker,
sold into the idea that just an example, homosexuality is not only a sin, it's condemned in my mind,
as a fundamentalist. God should put you to death. To me, that's a harmful ideology,
and it's not a good one, in my opinion. What someone's sexual preference is, to me,
something that religion needs to leave alone. If they think that, that's fine, but don't impose
that standing there going out of your way trying to harm others, because they might have a sexual
preference different than you. Whereas if you go in the Middle East, you say, hey, by the way,
I'm a homosexual, they will behead you. We might have different practices where I go,
you think rehabilitation is throwing someone in prison for 20 years in isolation. We're going to
think one day, I bet you, when we look back with our science, we're going to look at that and go,
how neanderthal like were we? Because we thought that was going to rehabilitate them. That's not
how it works. I mentioned that on a previous show. It's something we always have to keep in mind,
is that hindsight is 2020, and then on top of that, we should not, in my opinion, ever be judging
other cultures based off of our conceptions of morality, our conceptions of what's good and
just. It doesn't make sense from an anthropological standpoint, because that instantaneously biases
how we're going to actually view the culture, how we're going to view their ideas. It actually
makes it hard for us to view things objectively. I get it. And it is something that's very relevant
to this discussion, because when we get into the 1900s. Yeah. Okay, I'm following you. I didn't mean
to. I'm fine. Elizabeth Evans was definitely in that group. It was a racist time. She's a racist
woman. And the story, it wasn't good. Her book, interestingly enough, following that
is a complete 180. She wrote her last book that she wrote was the Christ myth. She wrote that
on 1900 exactly. And basically, the thesis of that book was Jesus did not exist. And her goal
was to disprove Christianity. And what's interesting about it is that she seemed to have become a lot
more conscious of anti-Semitism, because the goal of her book, in the end, when she actually makes
her final statements, is that now that Christianity is disproven, we should stop oppressing the Jews.
It's a very interesting, complete 180 that she did.
That's actually, I kind of feel the emotion of that, even if her arguments aren't, I get it,
because look at what's been happening. Anyway, yeah, it's a, it was a very, it's a very, very
interesting book. It was a very sincere book. She argued primarily based off of comparison
to other works that Jesus didn't exist, like comparisons to Krishna, Buddha, et cetera, et
cetera, a very strong Indian influence for her argumentation. The other woman that was involved
earlier in the 1800s, late 1800s, was Sarah Titcombe. She was part of what's called the Mind
Cure Group. She believed that all illnesses were actually just illusions of the mind and could
be cured purely by the mind. I mean, we had some weird, you're right, I said it's 2020, baby.
Yeah. Well, and it, well, and Elizabeth Evans was of a completely different group that thought that
no one should have sex except for reproductive purposes, ever.
I'm going to hell. I'm just kidding. So they, so, but yeah, Sarah Titcombe, she wrote
the Aryan sun god, or is that, I remember the name correctly.
Can I ask you something about this too? Because we're about to get into some white,
there's going to be some obvious white supremacist stuff here. And I kind of, I guess, I don't want
to steal your thunder. We might be getting to it, but I wanted to ask, as we're getting into this,
does any of what occurred in Nazi Germany and some of the stuff in Russia and the racist tendencies,
did mythicism play a role in any of these things? Yes. Okay. I will get to those in detail. It's
harder to track mythicism in Nazi Germany, but it's very easy to track it in Soviet Russia. Very
easy. Okay. So, yeah, Aryan sun gods, actually, surprisingly enough, was fairly well publicized.
I have reviews of it from Calcutta. I have reviews of it from Germany. I have reviews of it from France,
the United States, England. It was a very well disseminated book.
Now, it, despite that fact, neither Elizabeth Evans, or Eliza Sharples, or Mary and Jane Carlyle,
or Elizabeth Evans, Sarah Tickham, none of these women are usually ever talked about
in this debate, ever. In fact, the only person I know of in this entire debate to have ever referenced
any of them is Acharya. For those that don't know her actual name, Dorothy Murdoch.
So, yeah, these women, despite the fact that they seem to have had quite a bit of notoriety around,
completely overlooked by modern scholarship on mythicism, completely. However, their cohorts
are usually mentioned, like Robert Taylor and Richard Carlyle.
And they, and these girls probably went further than them. I mean,
well, yeah, I mean, Eliza Sharples outlived him and had an influence, and she had influence on
an English mythicist we're going to talk about here in a second, Charles Bradlaw.
So, but yeah, this is basically what the United States looked like. We also know that,
interestingly enough, we also know that during this exact same time, there were also tours
going on for people trying to prove Jesus existed. There was actually a rabbi that I
know was going around to different states and giving lectures on why Jesus existed.
Now, in England, mythicism publicly kind of drops off a bit after Carlyle and Eliza Sharples
and Taylor drop off the scene. Is this 1900s? No, this would actually be an 1840s. So we're going,
I'm going backward in time to deal with England now. So in England, mythicism kind of just dropped off,
disappeared a little bit. It does still exist in some periodicals, but sparsely in comparison.
Towards the end of the 1800s, so 1880s and 1890s, pops back up. Boom. It primarily pops back up
with figures like Charles Bradlaw and Edwin Johnson. Edwin Johnson, we don't know a whole lot
about, looked to be an English school teacher of some kind. He had probably some of the wackier
ideas. He didn't think that any of the ancient texts that we had were actually authentic in any
way. And he thought that the Gospels and the Epistles were all 15th century CE forgeries created
by Benedictine monks. I guess when you're working with whatever you got, I don't know. I mean,
because can you imagine? I don't know. I don't know. Today we have enough now to go, hey.
Yeah. So his theory was interesting. Question mark. He has actually had a little bit of influence
on mythesis to the modern time, so despite this. But around the same time was in Charles Bradlaw.
Charles Bradlaw became very influential in running free thought organizations.
And he published a book where he basically put forward a whole bunch of these early mythesists
and said, you should check all these books out because these are excellent at disproving Christianity.
So like Bonet, Taylor, Carlisle, the works are all in them. He seemed to have been a mythesist
himself. He did not, his mythicism in particular was not particularly influential,
except to one person who is going to be very important in the beginning of the 20th century,
John McKinnon Robertson, whom who is probably one of this to this very day is one of the
single best known mythesists in history. So that's kind of how it was in England during this time.
Primarily it's periodicals, free thought movement. It's not super well publicized anymore like it
was during the time of Taylor and Carlisle, which is ironic because censorship had greatly
lessened by this time as well. So where in France, we also start to see our some early
mythesists starting to pop up as well. One of them is the famous novelist Edward Juadin,
who is going to become very important in the debate to some extent.
In Germany, we don't have very much at all. Basically, by that time, the liberal theologians
had basically taken over. And so all these liberal theologians are arguing Jesus existed,
and they're emphasizing his humanity over any of actually the mythology.
But during this time, we do have a specific group in Holland appearing, the Netherlands.
These are our personal favorites, the Dutch radicals.
Yay, Dr. Bob. Chris, you froze on me.
So the Dutch radicals were primarily coming about. Oh, there we go.
You froze. Okay, you're back.
This. There we go. Is that better?
That should be better. Yeah.
Okay. So yeah, are the Dutch radicals basically came about as a result,
basically developing in the modernist movements in Holland at the time. They're very greatly
influenced by the liberal theologians in Germany, like FC Bauer. And then they are also very much
becoming influenced as well by Hegel. You can see the thrill of expression on my face.
So the first quasi method quasi Dutch radical I consider a Dutch radical in the proto sense
hoekstra writing in the 1860s and 1870s at start. He was not a mythicist at all,
but he argued that the gospel of Mark was useless for reconstructing a biography of Jesus.
This has become a trait of the Dutch radicals later on.
There's also then Allard Pearson. Allard Pearson is basically is usually considered the father of
the Dutch radicals. He argued that it was his lecture on the Sermon on the Mount and his
published work on that that basically started this, argued that he would prototype what was
basically to come. Didn't think any of the Gospels could be used to reconstruct Jesus.
Didn't think that there were authentic Pauline epistles.
All the good stuff. He was not, however, taking from Bruno Bauer yet. Bruno Bauer would come
into influence with the later Dutch radicals. So he influenced Abraham Dirk Lohman. Abraham
Dirk Lohman ended up publishing a lot on arguing against the authenticity of relations.
And he also, he came to the conclusion that Jesus did not exist. He actually gave us,
he gave a lecture on that that actually be that lecture actually became so popular among the
Dutch radicals that followers of the Dutch radical school would actually commemorate the day and have
celebrations on it later. Not kidding. It's like it's almost religious in a way. It's quite
interesting. For those I actually want like a brief, a good brief history of it. I highly suggest
checking out Herman Datering's The Fabricated Paul. Pages like 45 through like 60 have a good
history of it. There's also during this time, as then coming up, we have Will, we have Willem
Christian Van Manen. Willem Christian Van Manen was not a mythicist of any kind. Those who have,
there have been a few people I've tried to say he was, like Robert van Voorst,
inherently put him in that category. He thought Jesus existed. He also thought Paul existed.
He did not think that Paul wrote any of the epistles we have, though.
And he is by far the most influential of the Dutch radicals today. And that's primarily
because he wrote several articles in English. And for those interested, all of those articles have
been edited and put together by Dr. Robert Price. Here's a fair question, I guess. And you've read
these things, which by the way, I'd love to get a, if we could, if you can get some of the sources,
like just give me, you know, not all, there's so many, but like a list of these, I'll put them
down in the description of the video so people can go and do, well, let me read that person,
let me read that book or whatever, and they can dig up their own. You've read these Dutch radicals,
at least to some degree, I suspect. Do you have any, can you see why they're making their case?
I mean, do they have good reason to think like they do? Or, I mean, you may not agree with their
case, but do you, do they have any good substantial things that get your attention?
So there's, there are a number of things that are actually very interesting about their case,
and that I see as partially credible. So one thing that they have going for them,
or that was substantial to their arguments, was first actually discrediting the power of the
signature statements at the beginning of the epistles. I am Paul, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
They thought that those were all problematic. And so one of the traits of the Dutch radicals was
basically that they could not treat those as authentic, because they thought there were
a bunch of problems with them. They'd compare them and be like, look how long these things are,
or, you know, these things are kind of, they seem a little inconsistent between the letters.
They also argued that part of the argument was based off of the work of
the Tubingen School by F, started by F. C. Bauer. So that school thought that only four of the
epistles were authentic. The problem was that the, was that these Dutch radicals would then
make the argument that, well, look, all the language in these, in these epistles looks very
close to these ones that you think are, you know, aren't authentic. So why don't we just consider
these not authentic? Others argued that there were indications that these were also piecemeal
compilations. Patchwork. Yeah. Yeah. Which Dr. Price is very much indulged in his own work,
The Amazing Class of Apostle. The word, from my own perspective, I don't think that these
arguments are that credible anymore. They are very interesting for the day. I personally consider it
a problem of skepticism for the sake of skepticism. But that is my position. I have found that the
argumentation of the, the Dutch radicals were pretty much ignored, mostly during their day.
There are a few responses available that people can read to them. There was a response by Benjamin
W. Bacon in his commentary on Galatians. There was a response in Otto Fleiderer's
primitive Christianity in four volumes. You can only,
this commentary is available in reprint. These are not, unfortunately. There was also,
there were like two or three other responses made. There were not, there was not a whole lot made in
detail against them. Most phylogens didn't find them particularly credible.
Partia, another problem was also because they were writing in Dutch. Dutch was a relatively
niche language. No one, not a very many people spoke it outside of the Netherlands and a few in
Germany. So it wasn't something that people were widely, that had, had wide accessibility to,
which made it hard. Those that did respond to the Dutch radicals usually were responding to
Willem Christian Van Manen, because he wrote in English and he wrote several articles for
Encyclopedia Biblica. He also published a few in like some periodicals.
So it, most of them didn't have a whole lot of response. Today there has been a, there has been
some response though from a very, very good scholar, Edward Verhof. His articles are,
of the most part, I think all accessible online. So I could actually give you guys links to them,
to the PDFs. He gives, in my opinion, what is an argument in favor of the Paulian epistles being
authentic and I think it's pretty conclusive. I also think that one thing that, one thing that
actually, the thing that shifted Willem Christian Van Manen's perspective on the Paulian epistles
was not actually really about the, the epistles themselves, but actually the development of
Christianity. Because he had problems figuring out how Paulian and Petrion Christianity were
able to develop in the time frame of tradition, of how Christians traditionally put it,
because he viewed them all as linearly one after the other basically. So he didn't see how the
time frame worked unless the epistles were inauthentic and later in date. This is in contrast
to his dissertation. His dissertation was written defending the authenticity of
First Thessalonians and I think that his argument was solid.
And his argumentation is quite closely what's actually replicated by Edward Verhof.
For those wanting actually a rundown on Willem Christian Van Manen, there's a,
Edward Verhof has a great article in this book. It's called The Rise of Historical
Consciousness Among the Christian Churches. His article is literally just, his article is entitled,
let me get it. I swear I'm good at this. It's entitled The Dutch Radical's
A Spouse Historical Research as the Basic Principle of Their Study. It's a very good article, highly
suggested. There is also one other work from The Dutch Radicals that isn't English now.
It is the dissertation of Hio Mai Boon. He was a, he did not, to my knowledge,
really get into discussions of the epistles, but he was closely associated with Abraham
Dirk Wilman. But he focused on the Gospel of Mark and he actually argued against Mark in priority.
So this is his dissertation. It has been translated in English as a history and critique of the origin
of the Mark and hypothesis 1835 to 1866, a contemporary report we discovered. It was
translated by John... What's his, what's his priority in his view, Matthew?
I believe so. If I remember correctly, it's been a little bit since I read it.
But he basically argued against Mark in priority because he actually points out
that Mark in priority at that point was not actually argued for based off of much actual
historical consideration of the text. It was actually argued for primarily based on theology.
And so he made serious criticisms of the academics of his day because of that. It's
actually a very good work because he was holding the academics of his day very much accountable
for their theological biases. Interesting. So yeah, this was basically what the Dutch radicals were
like. There was one other Dutch radical that was of note and that was Van den Berg van
Sidney, who was the student of Wilhelm Christian van Mannen. Unlike van Mannen,
he became a mythicist. Yeah, and he promoted the Indian origin of Christianity theory.
This theory would later become one promoted by Herman Datering today.
They did not have very much influence out of their own circles. They were primarily located at
Amsterdam and the University of Amsterdam and University of Leiden. And they were associated
with the publishing house Braille, very famous today. Other than that, not much. They did have
some influence in this debate, like they influenced John McKinnon and Robertson and Arthur Draves.
But that was about it. They didn't really themselves get too closely involved directly,
usually just through proxy. And I don't know because I haven't read them. Were they influenced
by the idea of mimesis from Old Testament? Is that where they conclude Jesus is like a rewrite
of the Old Testament or what a particular angle on why Jesus didn't exist? It depended on the
author. Okay, there's different opinions. Yeah, there was no universality, but with their
mythicist positions at all. Okay, so it's hard to tell always. Vandenberg, Ben and Sainia,
thought that it was actually went for a comparitivist route with Indian religions,
with Hinduism and Buddhism, with Abraham Dirk Lohman. I believe he went into some of the Old
Testament as well. But it all just varied. That's pretty cool. I've never heard anyone
like talk about the Dutch radicals, you know, on that level. That's pretty cool. So in the book,
I'm working on it. I have an entire chapter devoted to them, actually. They deserve it, man.
Yeah, especially because they're a group that's not really talked about a lot, except for usually
just in passing now. So other than this, then we now are going to start moving into the 1900s.
Late 1800s, we have our first case for mythicism in a newspaper in Greece pop up as well. We have
the first indications of it in Italy is in addition. So I'm going to start move actually
to Germany now, because in the 1900s is primarily where mythicism is going to have its major focal
point is actually in Germany. And to do this, I have to get into a, I have to actually take us
back and get into a little bit more history, because there's an entire movement we have
to understand in order to understand where mythicism got its start. And this is the monist
movement. Particularly, we need to understand Ernst Hegel. Ernst Hegel was an early Darwinist
zoologist and biologist. Got it. And he had, he was a little bit extraneous in his views. He
basically, he didn't always actually keep up with the current research on Darwinism.
What he became convinced of was that they basically should start a religion based on
Darwinism. And when I say that, that it was a religion, that he thought of it as a religion,
I'm not kidding at all. He thought you could apply Darwinian evolution to basically anything.
The two books that I would suggest on this, for those interested, is Daniel Gasman's Hegel's
Monism and the Birth of Fascist Ideology and the Scientific Origins of National Socialism also
by Gasman. So Hegel was also, in addition, a raging anti-Semite and an anti-Christian.
By the time that the early 1900s were coming around, a monist movement had begun in Germany.
He'd start and he had started a, basically, it was the German monist league that had begun.
It was an official movement set and it was initially run by Albert Koltof. Albert Koltof was
originally a German minister. He, and liberal theologian, he ended up becoming a monist and
gave up Christianity and became an anti-Christian. And then he became president of the German
Monist League and wrote, and he, we discovered the works of Bruno Bauer. Albert Koltof is basically
like, reviving the work of Bruno Bauer. Bruno Bauer's work, it's been commonly said, this is
another trend in mythicism, it's been commonly said Bruno Bauer's work was just forgotten about and
kind of put by the wayside, even censored. Only one of his works, to my knowledge, was actually ever
censored. The rest of them don't ever seem to have, and they actually seem to have been actually
fairly present in the mind, actually internationally. People seem to just have known about him. So
his works weren't exactly forgotten, but Koltof basically was taking his works to a new level
and combining them with his monist ideas. He wrote three books on the topic of Jesus's historicity.
One of them has been translated into English, I don't have my copy of it here, but it was called
The Rise of Christianity. And his theory, his thesis is basically identical to that of Bruno
Bauer. If you know Bruno Bauer, you basically are going to know what Albert Koltof said.
But so basically there's not a whole lot I'm going to talk about with Koltof here, except that
where he had a lot of influence and where another figure would have influence is on Arthur Drebbs.
Arthur Drebbs is probably this single most well known and arguably most important
mythicist to have ever existed. He was a German philosopher from the University of Karlsruhe.
He studied monism. He was a monist himself. He was inspired by Hegelian philosophy and by
Schopenhauer and others. And he was a different kind of monist. He was what's called an idealist
monist. But basically he came to the conclusion that due to his religious beliefs, he could not
believe that Jesus existed. He was religiously motivated to think Jesus didn't exist because
of his monism. The idea of God becoming incarnate in his monism was nonsense.
Ah, therefore Jesus did not exist. His book was single-handedly probably the most controversial.
In all of history, his book is easily the most controversial that has ever existed.
It was called Christus Mitha. It went through four different editions. The fourth one has never
been translated into English. It was a two-volume set because it was so large.
The third edition did get translated into English under the Christ Mith by C. Delisle Burns in 1910.
His book was first published in 1909 after the death of Caltaugh who influenced him.
It was primarily motivated after he was reading the work of W.B. Smith out of
Tulane in America. W.B. Smith was a white supremacist and mythicist. His white supremacy work is
absolutely horrific on every level. His mythicist work was the progenitor of the
view of a pre-Christian cult worshipping a figure called Joshua, which is where
Dreyfus gets his idea of it from. Basically, when we get to Dreyfus, Dreyfus argues that
Dreyfus is basically a conglomerate of all these different ideas we've been seeing.
He's taking from Bruno Bauer and Caltaugh. He's taking from the astrothiology. He's taking
from the comparative route. He's taking from the Dutch radicals. Everything is just being intertwined
in this mass conglomerate argumentation going on here. He became super popular because he had a
massive publicity plan going on in coalition with this. He'd go around in Germany giving lectures
on this. He published a bunch of pamphlets on this. It became such an international sensation that
right after he was published, there were people all the way in Los Angeles, California writing about
this. He ended up publishing a debate. He ended up in a debate with numerous theologians. Actually,
to date, he is the mythicist with the most responses in history. Before his death, there were over 100
published in literature. Peter DeMay recorded 86 himself. I've recorded a further 30.
That's crazy. It is absolutely insane. I actually have one of them here. This is an original from
1910 by Hermann von Soden. The big part of this was that there ended up being a huge debate in
1910 at the Berlin Zoo logical gardens between Hermann von Soden and about three or four other
theologians and Arthur Dres. The debate was organized by the German monist leak and it was
heavily slanted in favor of the mythicists heavily. It garnered an audience so large that
they couldn't fit everyone in. It was heated beyond all natural reason. At one point, one woman
apparently got up and screamed that Dres was going to burn in hell and stormed out of the auditorium.
Then there were mass protests that eventually happened. In fact, there was one protest.
They organized for around 5,000 people but because the protest was so large, they had to
organize a second one in another city in order to accommodate everyone. The international response
was massive. He was receiving responses in Russia, in India, in America, in France, in England,
in Germany itself, in Denmark. Everyone wanted to bash this man into the ground.
It was one of the most remarkable spectacles of the early 20th century.
Basically, after the mid 1910s though, no one gave a shit anymore. Germany basically came to
the German theologians after he was responded to en masse, basically were like, this matter is decided
and you've lost. That was the end of it, for the most part.
In America, it was pretty much over by the 1920s. Germany, it was pretty much over by the mid 1910s.
Was his writings really, were they good? I mean, not only were they,
but was he pretty good at defending mythicism? The arguments actually aren't that great.
Arthur Dredz was not considered actually the strongest of the mythicists of his day.
The reason he was so popular was just because of the publicity tour that followed him.
In fact, the publicity was so much that apparently even Kaiser Wilhelm II made a statement on it,
according to one of these books up here, this one right here. The Search for Jesus by Macallan.
Yeah, it was a very interesting development, but his arguments were not usually considered the best.
Most of them actually considered Albert Kaltoff and some of his other contemporaries to actually
be better at arguing for their case than Dredz. So what ended up happening, though, after that is
basically there was no one else that ever actually garnered that much of attention. In India, there
were two major mythicists that were actually going around making arguments, but they were
completely ignored by everyone else in the world. Dredz had a direct influence in Japan, specifically
on Shusei Kotoku. I'm probably butchering that pronunciation. I am sorry, Japan.
But he was an anarchist, very much inspired by Marxism and socialist ideology. He wrote
his own book called On the Obliteration of Christ, where he argued that the cross was a phallic symbol
and that Jesus never existed and a bunch of other stuff, and he is primarily working off of
Dredz, Ernst Renan, and a few other older theologians. He didn't have access to a whole lot of work at
that time. His work also did become massively influential, though, not in the Western world.
It's never been translated into English ever. It was translated into Chinese, and some scholars
argue that that book probably made its way to the desk of every single historian in all of China.
It became the official position of the anti-Christian movement in China. It became,
it did have an influence in Korea from what I can tell. So yeah, and then where Dredz was also then
very important was in Russia, which I think I will spend most of the rest of this time on.
And then, because most people know about the modern stuff, I'll just say one quick thing about
modern mythicism, because we can focus on that maybe in another video. But modern, the whole idea
that mythicists have been ignored by academics is a complete myth. I have endless records of responses
to mythicists throughout the 20th century without stop. To think that we have, like, ignored them
in academia as historicists is just wrong. It's a myth on both historicist and mythicist sides,
because historicists do it because they don't want to give mythicism credit.
Mythicists do it because they want to be a victim.
They're both wrong, completely. But basically where mythicism had its most acceptance
widely among academics was in Soviet Russia, and it was through Arthur Dredz. Arthur Dredz's
Christmas was translated into Russian in the 1920s. The German edition came to the
hands of Vladimir Lenin, and Lenin wrote specifically that it should be adopted by the state,
and it was, and it was adopted big time. The Soviet Union took Arthur Dredz's mythicism,
made it the official position of the Communist Party. It was put into propaganda. It was used
specifically to motivate anti-religious sentiment. It was specifically used to indoctrinate children.
In Germany in the 1950s, some 80,000 textbooks were printed supporting mythicism to be used
in elementary and high schools, or, well, our equivalents anyways, in East Germany and in
Yugoslavia. And in fact, in Yugoslavia, they ended up killing over 200 priests
that in one go under President Tito. People who were a part of the historical school, Russia
basically divided themselves into two schools. There was the mythological school and the
historical school, as they called it. People who were a part of the historical school were
declared active enemies of the state. There were mass debates put out publicly,
but this is really funny actually. So despite the fact that there were all these mass debates,
apparently the Russian government eventually dissuaded people from actually doing them,
and the reason is because the historicists were usually better read and usually have more knowledge
of the ancient texts. So when it came to the debates, the historicists would usually swamp
all of the mythicists completely. So what ended up happening was that the League of the Militant
Godless, which was well known for actively persecuting Christianity in the name of atheism,
and then using mythicism as one of the tools to do this, they actually started what were called
anti-religious universities and tried to train people specifically to take on and defeat Christians
and to destroy the historical Jesus. The universities didn't really work very well,
because most professors refused to become a part of them, so they were able to. And what was really
funny was even those that did end up working out, even after they would have their students go through
their students were still so underprepared that they'd usually get swamped anyways in the debates,
even after the education process. However, mythicism became widely accepted usually under
force because in Russian historical academia, it became the official position of the Great
Soviet Encyclopedia. It was the only academic encyclopedia at that point that actually held
a mythicist position. And so it was widely used. It was broadcasted over radios in the 1950s over
Christmas. On Christmas Day, they actually put out a radio broadcast saying that Christmas was a
pagan holiday and that Jesus never existed and a whole bunch of other stuff over radio Moscow.
And then after that, there were numerous scholars like Alexander Kozdan,
Yosef Krivlev, and Nikolai Rumiastov, and numerous others that all promoted these views.
Usually they were associated with some atheist organization that was specifically
promoting this as an official position politically. This actually remained the official
political position of the Soviet state until it dissolved in 1991.
However, mythicism in Russian academia shifted hard.
In the 1960s, basically as they were beginning to let up on academics,
and also especially after the Krumran discoveries were becoming more widely known,
academics basically began shifting their views en masse. By the beginning of the 1970s,
most Soviet academics were no longer mythicists, including Alexander Kozdan. Alexander Kozdan
had been actually one of the most fervent mythicists in the early decade, in the early
decades as a Soviet Union, and completely did a 180 after the discoveries of Krumran.
In addition, others began taking positions, even those that didn't think he existed,
usually shifted into agnosticism. Nikolai Rumiastov actually ended up giving up most of his
comparative ideas and began focusing more on Jewish origins for Christianity at that point
as well. He basically gave up a whole bunch of drugs as talking points.
Basically, it went from being a forced position that was actively used to oppress academia,
and used to brainwash children, and then completely changed over.
I think it's important to note that the discovery of the Krumran
and Nag Hammadi might play a role, but I know the Krumran from what I understand is a very
interesting one, because that gets you into a real messianic mindset real quick, and find out
there's a lot in common. I'm not saying it's identical, but I'm sure these scholars are well
read. We're seeing stuff and going, oh my gosh, this is fascinating material.
Yeah, and so there's a few works I actually want to talk about specifically from around here.
So the first one I actually want to talk about is a novel that was published during this time.
It's called The Master in Margarita by Mikhail Bukakov.
The first chapters are very well known among academics, specifically because he satirizes
the hell out of the Christ myth debate. He presents a mythicist atheist named Berlioz,
who is so set in his ways that when Satan himself comes to Russia and tells him that Jesus existed,
he won't believe him. Oh, that's good, that's funny. Berlioz then eventually gets his head cut off.
So it's all good fun, right? Right. Oh, peaceful loving. Yeah.
It's honestly very great, but Mikhail Bukakov was writing in the 30s and the 40s.
He had direct access. We know for a fact he owned a copy of Arthur Drows's book,
and he was using that predominantly for his satire, but he was also surrounded by mythicism. In fact,
in one place where he published a short story, if I remember correctly, at the end of that newspaper
article or the periodical, there was an article promoting mythicism in it. So basically everywhere
that you went, it was being promoted. H.G. Wood actually, who wrote Did Christ Really Live?
right here, reported that when he came to Chicago, the Russian Workers' Party there
actually was having promotions and propaganda for mythicism as well. This is in the 1930s in Chicago.
So this book was actually very funny and became very, very widely disseminated.
The other book that was extremely influential was Father Alexander Men's Son of Man.
He was a Russian Orthodox priest. He had to publish this actually outside of Russia,
and he had to publish it under a pen name because otherwise they probably would have executed him
for his Christian faith. But unfortunately, the appendix was not translated in the English edition,
but the appendix is where he rebutted to mythicism in full. Spent several pages on it,
and in my opinion, has some of the best arguments against mythicism that there are.
Focused on those who would use trifo, you had a hugely excellent grasp of the current literature
of the research that had been done up to that point. He was a brilliant academic.
So basically, after Alexander Men's book in the 60s, which became also widely disseminated,
and they think there are others that have said it basically reached every single
nook and cranny of Russia by the 70s. Basically, because of that, mythicism
basically just collapsed. While it was still the official state position, the state no longer
had that hold that they used to have, and so they could no longer enforce it like they did,
because academics had dropped it en masse, the populace had dropped it for the most part.
Basically, that was it. It was over for that. By that point, there were two
mythic scholars I know of left. The only one that wrote any book on the matter,
and it's available in English, you have to track down a copy, and they are hard as fuck to find,
was Joseph Krivlev's Christ Myth or Reality. It was published in the 1980s.
This is a trend in mythicism, is that the arguments that mythicists have
nine out of ten times are recycled from older work, even if they don't know it.
The Dying and Rising Gods goes back to the 1800s. Most of all, the deities and narratives
they're going to compare have been used since the 1800s. There's not very much original in
mythicism at all. Joseph Krivlev is very much a sign of this. His argumentation, you can basically
find very closely paralleled in Arthur Drevs. There's not a whole lot different.
But his work, when he died in the 1990s, that was basically the end of mythicism in Russia.
It is not accepted in academia in Russia to this day. There's an article, you have to be able to
read Russian, but there's an article available online documenting the history of mythicism in
Russia. Basically, by the time the 90s rolled around, there was no academics left promoting it
in Soviet, in Russian academia at all, where Yugoslavia collapsed, as we all know,
and so that whole hold of mythicism there fell apart. Mythicism also had a complete reversal
in Romania. It also had been a forced position there, but basically in the 1990s, Romanian
theologians and academics reversed their positions as well. East Germany as well completely
reversed it. Basically, at that point, there was not really much of anything left.
And in fact, after the 1930s, mythicism as a whole worldwide was on a downturn,
at least in academia. Paul-Louis Couchu in France was the last one that had any major hold
in French academia. He was the last one also that had a massive responses made in the 1920s
and 30s, and basically those responses discredited him mostly, like the work of Maurice Jojuel,
Jesus the Nazarene. Basically, at that point, no one regarded any of his work as
academic, as viable after that. In India, no one cared. China adopted mythicism only for a very
brief time period. It wasn't very important to them in academia. Japan, it never caught on,
apparently, not majorly. To my knowledge, it hasn't caught on in the Koreas either.
In Germany, it actually got supplanted in World War II, because the problem of this was the rise
of Nazism, because the official Nazi position was that Jesus was an Aryan. So they thought he existed.
They just thought he wasn't a Jew. There was one Nazi mythicist I have a record of, Hans
Obermeister in Berlin, who wrote a series of pamphlets where he was part of the Volkisch
movement as well. The Volkisch movement was basically a revival of Norse paganism with Nazi
ideology. He wrote several pamphlets arguing that Jesus never existed, Peter never existed,
Paul never existed, etc., etc., and then argued that everyone should worship Odin.
Yeah, you have no axe to grind, my friend. Other than that, there wasn't very much
to the left of it in Germany. Nazis, basically, had just adopted that he was a historical figure.
An Aryan, but yeah. So at that point, basically, what ended up happening
in Germany, East Germany, as I talked about before, was taken over by the Soviet Union.
That was influenced by mythicism from the Soviets, and then all that collapsed when
mythicism basically was reversed and massed as a position of academics.
And then West Germany was all historicists, because they're basically all working with
the rest of the academics over in France and the United States and England.
John McKinnon Robertson was the most influential mythicist in England.
Huge number of responses made to him as well. He's probably, in my opinion, the second most
responded to figure. But after the 1910s, he fell off the radar and no one cared about his work
anymore. For the most part, he still published several works up to his death. None of them were
heralded. Same thing with W.B. Smith in the United States, probably the third most responded to of
the time. Again, his work was responded to and mass several responses. After the 1910s, academics
regarded mythicism as a moot point. It was refuted to them.
I was going to say, I guess that, because we could go into, I'm pretty sure, a pretty good podcast
on just the 19th, 20th century and today, and the varieties of mythicism today.
Yes. Just different ideas. I guess my question, because I wonder if we should pause it here
to go into on our next show. It'd probably be a good place to pause, because now we're basically
done with Russian. Basically, the only thing left is modern. Yeah. Why did it revive? What
happens? Who, what, when, where, and why? Also, I wanted to ask for our audience to say,
because this was very historical and very educational, very, very few biases came through
on your part, which was good. You were a mythicist, correct? Yes. Okay. And how long were you a
mythicist? Now, a few years. Few years. You've read quite a few books on mythicism. So I would say
several hundred at this point. Wow. Okay. So here would be my obvious question. I am a mythicist,
right? Let's just say, which I'm actually agnostic to be realistic. I really don't know. I mean,
I'm very open minded to there having been an actual guy at the root. I'm definitely open
minded. As you can see, I have you on my show, like please share the information. I'm a mythicist,
and I want you to give me a one stop shop. I'm not as well read. I can't read 200 volumes. I
really want the best place to go to say, this is the strongest case that I've seen in like a one
stop shop refuting the idea of the non we're really not even necessarily refuting it, but like
giving a positive position on showing that there was a historical Jesus. Is there something like a
one stop shop that you would recommend? I know that's a hard one. That's probably the hardest
question you've had asked in a while. Oh, yeah, that's a really hard one because there is a such a
huge variety of responses. How would I give a few? There are a few. And we'll reference these down
below too. Yeah, I don't think I could give just one. Please. Modern literature. Robert Van
Bors, Jesus outside the New Testament is easily one of the best works out there. I personally
consider Maurice Casey's book to be Jesus mythicists myths or evidence and argument to be very
decent as well. Most of the criticisms that Carrier has of it, I don't even think or
I don't think he read all that sometimes. But the older responses, there are actually
some older responses that actually still stand. Really? Yes. Two of the best books are by the
same author. And this will also give you some of the best historical overview of the time.
T.J. Thornburns, Jesus, the Christ, historical or mythical. And then also his book, The Mythical
Interpretations of the Gospels. Both of these you can find digitally online in various places.
Otherwise, they've not actually been reprinted to my knowledge. So as you can see right here,
I have original editions. This one is from when is this? I believe this is
these editions are ancient and fragile. This is from 1912. And this is from 1914.
That's cool. So if you want those, you have to basically track them down.
Those I think are the best cases. The best cases against the Dutch radicals. Again,
is Edward Verhoef's work. I think his work is absolutely flawless for the most part.
Maurice Judgewell's work with Jesus and Nazarene was excellent. Shirley Jackson's cases,
The Historicity of Jesus was excellent. Bart Ehrman's book is okay as a starter, has problems for sure.
There are so many I can actually. You need a list of them because yeah, yeah, yeah, we'll do that.
I will provide you for, in the for the description below, I will provide a bibliography of
works you can check out on all. Cool. Do that, man. I'll definitely post it out there and
I'll be waiting for you to write your book at some point because you're a researcher. Of course,
you know, you're working towards putting some credentials behind your name, which is really,
really cool. I can't wait for that to happen so that, you know, you can actually be able to say,
hey, look, I got, there's, I have credential, I have credibility here in this discussion.
I could see a book coming out sometime, The Myth of Christ Mythicism. You know what I mean,
like like a derogatory kind of like a hat, but you're not really being derogatory, but it's like
The Myth of Christ Mythicism. And so I could see stuff like that. I like to entertain both sides,
which I think is a very good decision to make personally. I don't close off just because majority
does side on one side or vice versa. I mean, at one point, if I was majority, I might have been
mythosist. So, you know, so just, I would look at this argument. I think it's a very good question.
I think you've even said that on previous show. We were like, it is a very important question.
It's a question that should exist. It needs to happen. I think it's an important question. I
think people should ask, did Jesus exist? And I think there should be challenge. I am thankful
that mythosists exist. I think that is a good thing they exist. I don't think it's a bad thing.
I think some books are bad, but that's a different issue. That's not saying the idea
and the argument and the fact that that's a thing is bad. I think mythosism is kind of essential
because mythosism, in my opinion, is probably one of the most instrumental things to modern
historical Jesus studies because of how it actually influenced our methodology. Because
mythosism very adequately took down a lot of what the liberal theologians were doing.
It is an extremely important part of history and it's extremely important to have now.
It shouldn't stop existing. People, and I don't think we should be taking the existence of Jesus
by fiat, by any means. Funnily enough, when you go through the history of this, historically,
I actually have more traits associated with mythosism than I do historicists.
I'm a feminist. When I switched over to historicity, I was an atheist, involved in
atheist organizations which are usually pro-mythesis throughout history. This is one of the greatest
trends is that mythosism is usually associated with organizations that have an anti-Christian
agenda, like American atheist, Prometheus books. Usually they have some kind of secular or atheist
agenda. That's where mythosism is popping up. Is it wrong of me that I poke at Christianity
all the time on my YouTube channel? No, no, no. So the agenda needs to happen. Yeah, my mom's a
Christian. My mom and she calls me all the time and she says, Derek, please, please say a prayer
right now. And I do. I'll do it right there in front of her. And I mean it. I'm like, you know what?
Okay, mom, because I love mama. I always will. And I say, Dear Lord, if I'm wrong,
you know, have mercy because I'm trying to figure things out and I don't understand everything
there is to know. In Jesus' name, I pray. Amen. I'm an actual atheist by definition,
even though I'm agnostic because I don't really have, I can't, I can't say with knowledge of
knowing that there is no, no, but I have no reason for me to believe in a deity, so to speak,
even though I've had some strange experiences in my life. So it's like, you know, I don't know,
I'm a weird dude. But I mean, personally, right now, I am a theist. Okay. And I'm not a Christian.
So, okay. You're a theist. You're not pantheist. No, I'm, I'm actually a polytheist. So polytheist.
Okay, okay. Is there a particular like path in which you could put a label on it or?
I'm a Canaanite polytheist. Canaanite? Yeah. Dude, you went old school, bro, I'm gonna have to,
you always telling me to come and find all your men, women and children.
Yeah, it's it. Historically, I'm actually most with all the groups and associations I have.
Marxist, Marxist, I'm a feminist. I'm a polytheist. I have been mostly associated with
atheist organizations in the past. Like I actually have more traits associated with
mythicism than I do with historicity. Right. So I have more reason to actually be on that side.
But you, but you're convinced there's more reason with methodology and such that you're on the side
you're on. Yeah, there's many reasons you take your position. I understand. What made you,
if you don't want me to ask, and this is outside of history is great history lesson,
we're going to get into further history lesson. But if you don't want me to ask,
because we're all on a journey, right? Everyone who's watching this has been on a path. There's
a reason why they're watching this show and even made it this far. They're interested in the history.
They like the question or they themselves are Christ mythicists or historicists. And, you know,
we all go on our journey, but what led you to be to take a position from atheism to a polytheistic
Canaanite position? Is it not the evidence necessarily that or was there something convincing
about the religious view that you liked? What? It was a mixture of the argumentation and then
also then personal experiences. I regard personal experiences as a legitimate form of evidence
for personal. Right. You're not imposing. Yeah. I don't think personal experience is evidence for
other people and I don't pretend that it is, but it is evidence of what you experience. Subjective.
Yeah, it's subjective. I don't want to problem with it. I'm wrong. I'm wrong. If I'm wrong,
no deities is not like it's actually going to change anything. If you don't want me to ask
him about the Canaanite God, am I going to hell if I don't believe in him or is that like not in
their religious? Everyone's just going to shale. Okay. Whatever that is. Well, I'm just going to
shale. That's it. So I'm cool in your book. The thing about most polytheists is that we don't
have any stringent beliefs about anything. At least in terms of you have to believe this.
You have to be in the in-group. Like, no, we're very pluralistic. So we don't have problems with
atheists. If you're an atheist, it doesn't bother us. If you're deus, it doesn't bother us. If you're
a pantheist, it doesn't bother us. If you have a different pantheon, it doesn't bother us. I'm
more of a universal figure. I think all of the gods exist. I don't have a problem with it.
So you're kind of like a kind of like a Baha'i polytheist ish, ish. No, don't get me wrong. I'm
not trying to throw you in that group. I'm just saying you kind of see there's importance in all
different things in a way. So, okay. Yeah. Now, in terms of Christianity, I have a different
perspective. I don't think Jesus was, I think she's a historical dude. Yeah. And that's where it ends.
Right. And there's a lot of myth too. So you're not throwing that in.
My personal opinion of the entire quest to the historical Jesus, I think it's misguided.
I don't think we can know really much about, if anything, about the historical Jesus.
It's still fun to speculate. I mean, especially when something clawed us so deep for so long.
Yeah. You actually mentioned on a previous podcast that, and it is still to this day,
made me think, I heard different versions of this, but that this man may have actually blasphemed.
There may have been a guy who literally treaded waters he shouldn't have in a messianic sense,
which made him red flag to the leadership in that time that said, hey dude, this guy blasphemed,
like we need to get rid of him. Do you still hold that position that he claimed to be divine?
Or you're just kind of like, I don't even know. It's just throwing it out there.
Maybe. My position at the moment is he existed. He was probably killed by the authorities.
That's it. And they built off of this. He was probably somebody important to this group,
this small movement. Yeah. Yeah. He was important to this small little group of people.
But I think that Lord, that basically everything we have is mostly
invented. I basically think that what little we have in Paul is about what we can say.
And even that's so weird, dude. Just for me. Yeah. Like, I think he, I think he had a brother named
James, maybe multiple brothers, first Corinthians nine, five.
I think he probably had some apostles like Peter
died. You think Paul freaking faked himself into this thing or do you think he just had
a subjective personal experience where he, I think I don't have any reason to really doubt
he had some kind of personal experience. It doesn't, it's, it's not something surprising
and something that happens pretty frequently. I mean, you had one, right? Like, it's something
that having the experiences of deity is something very common. I just, I had to do this at the
end. You're really cool with this. And I really do appreciate you coming on and like not only
sharing the history, which, you know, just going into different ideas, you did a good job of not
like bashing the myth, this is the whole time. You did show though that there were some obviously
bad ideas attached. But one thing that I did appreciate is you didn't say the motivating factor
for mythicism in every single case was just this. It's just horrible ideas that made them have to
be mythicists. Now there were some you described and I'm sure there's more you didn't touch on,
which we've talked on previously. Yeah, but there are some that are, that are honest to goodness,
just mythicists, because that's where they think it led them. Right. Thomas El Brody is a Dominican
priest. Who is a mythicist? Why would you go there? Yeah, good point. There's also, there's a priest,
there's a pastor in the Netherlands, Bender Kaj. He's also a mythicist. There are some that just
come to this in a very honest way, not out of really these biases. This is just where they
were led. It's not, it's actually interesting in the case of Brody, because Brody basically
shows that if you disprove the historical Jesus, it doesn't actually just disable Christianity.
It doesn't for Brody. It's a more fervent believer. So I mean, really, the only person that really
matters in Christianity anyway is the Christ, not necessarily the Jesus. We talked about that.
Well, yeah, and it's, it's also just because of their, that the problem with those that take up
mythicism for the scorched earth approach, which Dr. Price has talked about. Basically,
that it's because they have this really black and white view of myth. Either some, if something's
myth, it's false. If something is true, it's true. And there's no room for myth to also impart truth.
Right. And that's a big mistake. I almost, there was a temptation to do that too when I was
researching this. I went down the celestial path. In fact, for me, I saw a lot of what appeared to be
celestial language, and it is there, but that doesn't mean the whole Dagnab thing is. And that's
what I thought. I thought I find elements of astrotheology, as they call it, or, you know,
star myth, whatever. Then the whole thing's probably the secret allegory. And I went down that path.
Now I'm beginning to look back, the way I described it the other day to someone was,
I'm walking into a dirt lot. And some people are saying, no, there's a concrete base there
somewhere. And I'm like, dude, I see nothing but dirt, right? I went to celestial, everything's dirt.
Then I started sweeping a little dirt away and realized, dude, there's a little bit of concrete
down here. What is that? And then I started realizing the more dirt I start to sweep, I
realized you can have dirt on top of concrete. And it's like, oh, okay, well, maybe it can be
a mythologizing way of history. And that might be the way they wrote.
Yeah. Well, yeah. And that's how they wrote all their history is mythologized. So like when you
see, this is one of my biggest critiques of mythosystem, actually, is that usually all of the
standards they have for like invalidating the Gospels as historical sources are things you
can apply to virtually any historical source at all in the ancient world. Historical sources were
mythologized. That's just how they wrote. Herodotus euhemerized Hercules and tried to make Hercules
historical. Herodotus wrote using very specific literary styles like they call it ring cycle,
triastic structuring. This is used in the Gospels. It's used in ancient myography.
Genesis. Yeah. This is just how they wrote. And so we can't use these standards to say that this is
just not historical. The hard part is that what it tells us is that there are trends of how they
wrote. Right. Even Mimesis criticism doesn't tell us that things are not historical.
It tells us that this is how they're shaping things. So sure, you can draw on all these
different works. You can draw your influences from pagans. I could concede every single argument
mythosus make and still be a historic. That's a fact. I actually described that with Camille
on the last show. I said, it's hard, Chris. I know you know where I'm coming from when I say
it's hard. Let me voice the mythosus in me, if you will, to say. Yes, you're right. It can be myth
that's overrun the historicity. So let me give you where I'm coming from with this.
If what we did with Mimesis, I see a rewrite of Moses technically in this modern context.
And for some reason, well, they don't say Moses's name. And there seems like there's different
little players in the story that did exist by Josephus's standards and others in that
contemporary context of when this is supposed to be taking place. And I go, you know, I feel
like at the bottom here, there's something that the author's trying to say, but it's so fictional.
It appears is so rewritten. It's like pulling the onion away and you're like, what is the
basis? And then when you get to try and find it out, you'll never know. So they wrote it in such a
way that to know with certainty, I can't. Like I can't in fairly the only thing I could personally
assert in this is Jews were crucified often in the first century. This guy was claiming to be a Jew,
even though there are these radical white supremacist versions of mythosus and whatnot.
And there's other groups that are not mythosus that are historicists, like the Christian identity
groups and a variety of different groups that are historicists that believe he was white or
believe he was black or whatever. But I just want to point out that at the end of the day,
it could all be myth. And all we have left in history in our hands is all myth or extremely
mythologized stuff. And there could have still been a guy. And that's the crazy thing about
historicity is at the end that could still say, got it, I agree, you could say all your dying and
rising gods do have some type of connection. You could say everything you want. And at the
end of the day, this guy was cherished. And in a perfect time in which they were able to do this,
and still be a historical person at the basis, that's what's crazy about it.
Yeah, like I can take I can actually take the same standards and apply them to the Caesars.
We know that apotheosis and translation narratives were a memetic tool often used Richard Miller
published a book on this. That was a common memetic tool used throughout the ancient world
and it was probably used in the case of Jesus. You know, for a fact that a lot of the birth
narratives and all sorts of other things were usually shaped by some memetic structure. So I
can actually look and show how accounts of the Caesars like Augustus are shaped mythologically
to a heck of a lot of high extent. We know Julie, we know Augustus Caesar existed.
Like, when we come to when we talk about history, we're not, we don't really look for,
we're not talking about certainty, we look for probability, right? Right. So we can be reasonably,
we can come to the conclusion with a reasonable high degree of probability that
Julius and Augustus Caesar existed, even though we also have accounts of them being translated into
the heavens by the gods. These were just common tools that were being used. And so when you see
these tools being used, none of these are indicative of a historicity. And that's like my biggest
problem. Every single argument that can be made that is usually made for the a historicity of Jesus
never actually indicates that. So all these arguments make is what they what they indicate
is mythology is being used. This is what hurts me in my brain. When I look at the New Testament,
I wish we found some literature that did not get so mythologized. I wish we had something a little
more down to earth, so to speak, not so, so highly mythologized. If that makes any sense,
like if you were to read Caesar Augustus or something and read people who wrote about these
guys, yeah, there's some stuff in there. Josephus did this, everybody did this, like,
I'm reading about Jesus been in a nice and I'm like, dude, this sounds a little bit hyped.
Like, how did Josephus know that at the death when the actual catapult came to crush Jesus
been in a nice his last words were, woe upon me. I mean, like, how do you know, like, there's fictitious
cool elements that are built into the history for this space, and is the basic messiah and a heel
and a healer and profit kind of a figure. And yeah, it's and it's really cool. I find beauty in that.
But like, there seems to be more, there's some type of con not concrete, but more tangible stuff that
isn't so hocus pocus. And then when I run to stuff like Paul, he's so weird. I don't mean in a bad
derogatory sense. I mean, he's weird. Like, for me, maybe I just don't understand the world around
them. And I need to research more and read more on this. But he's worshiping. I don't know. It appears
that he's got a strange Jesus. He's got a very strange Jesus Christ, Lord Jesus Christ. And it's
definitely different than Judaism in so many ways. So I, I'm not familiar with the mystery
schools. That might be why I need to investigate it more. I don't know. But everything we have
written on them is just not stoicism. It's the one to look at. Okay. Stoicism. Yeah. He is very,
he was very much made, he made a lot of use of stoic language. He didn't make use of mystery
language as well, but mostly stoic language. Christine Hayes was mentioning that. And I was
like, okay. Yeah. There's, there's actually two good books that have been published on it.
One's John G. Cook's empty tomb apotheosis and resurrection, or resurrection apotheosis, sorry.
And there was another one that was just published. And I don't remember the name of it, but I'll get
it to you in the description. Yeah, just put together something. How do you, I know you're not on
the web anymore, like much. And that's saying you won't come back. We will eventually, when you get
the book, definitely go into the book and get that out there. Do you have any ways of contact that
you put out there? Or is, is right now we're just going to hold off? And I don't really have much in
the way of contact information anymore. I'm not really handing out my email right now. I'm mostly,
part of this is because I am trying to keep, be more reserved to focus on my research.
That's why I've mostly withdrawn from online activities. So I don't blame you. Well, I really
appreciate you going through this next show we're going to do. Let us know also your thoughts,
if you're watching this, but next show we're going to do, we're going to go more into
the 19th, 20th centuries and to modern mythicism. And some of the ideas that are floating around
today has mythicism taken evolution since it spawned. Are there different, crazier, different
ideas? And are there some interesting ideas? Do they have some things right, some things wrong?
I'm looking forward to that. That'll be a fun one. I really do appreciate you joining me.
Thank you. Yeah. And don't forget, we are myth vision.
