Please consider becoming a patron of MythVision Podcasts, you'll get early access to every
video including this amazing one, and you can ask me personal questions, private message
me anything you'd like.
Professor Elyan Pagels, there's this interesting teaching about God in Gnostic circles, I'll
use Gnostic as in people that work orthodox to say they had the knowledge and understanding
the inner knowledge, and then there's the typical what we would call orthodox, and that
might be anachronistic, but there's one God, He's Creator, He's the loving God, the Father
of Jesus, whereas the Gnostic say, the Father of Jesus was not what you see in the Old Testament,
it seems to ride right into Martian a little, Martian has this like, I'm sorry, but Father
God of Jesus is not this cruel God that you see, telling them to go annihilate men, women
and children hating people and doing these wild, bronze age man type of ideas, it seems
like He's crazy, and Gnostic seem to have seen that and said, no, there's more than
one God in the picture, there might be a Supreme being, you kind of get the gist, even if you
just stuck in the context of the Old Testament in Deuteronomy 32, where Yahweh gets Israel
as a portion, as an inheritance, who did Yahweh get this inheritance from, you know, is this
the El Eleon, the Father God above all gods, it takes me into these interesting ideas that
I wanted to ask you about the denierge, and can you tell us the, it's not the Christology
so to speak, but the understanding of God by some of these Gnostics, and I know it may
not be one size fits all, over against the idea that Christianity has taught for 2,000
years, or I'll say 1,500 to 2,000, yes, well these people called Gnostics don't really
have a single teaching, but, and they're often accused of slandering the Creator.
When I was in graduate school, I remember very clearly an African bishop, a fellow graduate
student who'd come to Harvard to get his PhD, he said, well the Father of Jesus Christ is
a God of love, he is not like the wrathful God of the Hebrew Bible, and this is a Christian,
now a prominent African Christian teacher, who simply looks at the Hebrew Bible and sees
that the characterization of God, as say Jack Miles wrote in his book called God of Biography,
is, sounds like a different character than the loving and forgiving vision of God that
Jesus preaches, and so some people suspected as Marcian did in the early movement that these
must be different beings, and when Marcian's views were discredited for trying to separate
the Hebrew Bible from Jesus and his teachings, because I believe and I think many of us share
that Jesus was deeply steeped in the Hebrew Bible, that was his tradition, those were
his scriptures, so people who tried to keep those together rejected Marcian's views and
speak of the God of creation as the same as the Father of Jesus, but people who didn't
like deviance or people thinking otherwise just said, well they're just like Marcian,
they're just as bad, they reject the idea of God, that's not necessarily true, but there's
a difference you see between what we understand when we think of God, is it Michelangelo's
picture of an old man with a white beard, is that God? No, it's a picture, it's a picture,
it's an image that Michelangelo painted on the wall of the Sistine Chapel, it was his
way of imagining God, that's not God, and so these other followers of Jesus are doing
something like that, they're saying, well the picture you get in the Hebrew Bible isn't
God, it's an image of God, which is maybe a deficient partial portrait, so to speak,
so you can't take it as literally true, that's why they say, what we mean when we say God
is a transcendent being far larger than our imagination, so they were then accused of
not accepting the God of the Hebrew Bible, but I think that's a misunderstanding.
Let's get into this misunderstanding a little bit on the God of the Hebrew Bible from the
Gnostics, if I could use that plurally, because it's not one message, it's not one group with one
idea, the Valentinians for example, we have to get into Valentinianism if you will, and have you
tell us, teach us if you will, what that is, but it sounds like they think, and you could just tell
me who thinks this too if you don't mind, the Demiurge, the creator of this world ends up pretty
much creating us and all things in this world, we're kind of trapped in this body, this soup flesh
if you will, and to do bad, but really kind of has a platonic feel, like there's an other
worldly better place, an ideal place better than this that we'll go to, this is all corrupt,
and it makes me think in the Gospel, or not in the Gospels, I'm sorry, in some of the
pastoral epistles where John is talking about, you know, don't love this world,
you know, what is he talking about here, and are there jabs at the Gnostics in some of these
later pastorials, it sounds like they're at our jabbing at it, we've ravaged out off the Demiurge,
but can you tell us these ideas? Yes, I think the way you describe it is the way that
many Orthodox Christians have characterized these so-called Gnostics, it's kind of a caricature,
I think, and it sounds more like Martian in which people feel they are trapped in a world
of materiality from which they have to break out into totally spiritual existence, that's why
followers of Martian rejected sexuality and valued people who were celibate because they were more
spiritual, they felt that they had to live a life transcending the physical body with its needs of
food and sexual gratification and so forth, they had to become spiritual already on earth,
and there's a hint of that in Luke's Gospel in which Luke has Jesus speak about those who become
sons of the resurrection, live like angels, and later Christians tried to live like angels by
living in monasteries, rejecting ordinary life for celibacy, for radical asceticism, for trying to
be as holy and spiritual and non-physical as possible, and that's the way many people think
about so-called Gnostic Christians, followers of Valentinus are not like that at all, they see
one God, benevolent Father of all being, beyond our comprehension, but only understood as a being
that brings forth love for all the creation of the universe, so it's a very different and far
more affirmative view. There are different kinds of Christianity among the 52 texts found
in the so-called Gnostic library, some of them do have a more limited sort of highly ascetic
picture of the world in which they would reject ordinary life entirely and reject the God of
this world. Others, the texts that I happen to really like, like the Gospel of Thomas, the Gospel
of Philip, the Gospel of Truth, speak of a source of all creation which is a benevolent Fatherly
being that as I said is transcendent, beyond our comprehension, but entirely good.
So the Demiurge, what is the Demiurge?
Well that is a term for the way some people try to differentiate between the way God is pictured
in the Hebrew Bible, he's angry, he strikes people dead if they touch the sacred ark,
he urges the killing of all non-Israelite people. Those pictures of God, it means, Demiurge means
sort of half, half holy being, they say he doesn't sound like an entirely
loving, powerful God the way we understand God. It sounds like a partial God and so some people
think that followers, they call Gnostics, see the world that way. I think it's interesting
because I took notes while your book was playing in my head and I figure I'll skip ahead to just
mention one of these interesting people that you bring up named Marcus. Marcus the Magus.
Yes and it sounds like the Gnostic teacher Marcus seduced one of Irenaeus' bishops' wives
to follow him. Women were active in these movements it seems.
But this whole idea that Marcus seduced and of course they put it as if it's a sexual seducing,
but he probably was charismatic and he probably spoke in such a way.
Let's talk about Marcus the Magus. In the writings of one father of the church,
he writes about a teacher that he thinks is really corrupt and he calls him Marcus the
Magus, Marcus the Magician. Actually Marcus said he was a prophet and he's a follower of
Valentinus and one of the things that really offended the bishop who lived in a part of France
in today's Lyon in France. He was the bishop of Lyon. He was a missionary from Syria
preaching the Orthodox message. Marcian was a freelance prophet. He would go and groups of
people would gather around him and he would start talking about his Marcus the Magus.
Irenaeus' nasty name for Marcus the Prophet. And this prophet would start speaking about
visions he had, spiritual revelation, spiritual development. He would offer them to bless you
and invoke the powers from above to come upon you and you also would be infused with the spirit
and become a prophet. He also included women in this group. Marcus spoke of the divine source
not as only a father but also as mother, as father and mother, beyond our distinctions of gender,
transcendent to our understanding. But if you're going to use the term father,
why not use the term mother as well? So he invited women also into these groups and he
encouraged them to participate that they could learn how to prophesy, speak in prophecy,
they could baptize, they could become like priests themselves. Now Orthodox bishops like
Irenaeus didn't like that. In his world women were supposed to be obedient to their husbands,
as the letters of Timothy say. Women should be silent in church. They should have nothing to do
with authority. They should not even teach children. So he was very irritated and he said,
well he's leading all these people astray. Now the word he used for leading people astray is
seduction. And so he's saying, well he's got all these women followers and they just think he's a
wonderful prophet and they give him money and he's seducing them. Well he's not literally
seducing them but he's talking about God in masculine, feminine terms. He's inviting them
to speak, to pray to God our father and God our mother. The mother being the Holy Spirit here
because in Hebrew and Aramaic and Syriac the word for spirit is ruach or something like ruach
and it's a feminine word. So the spirit would be understood as a feminine being. So in these early
texts when you speak about God the Father and God the Mother you're speaking about
the Holy Spirit and the Creator. Irenaeus was very furious that Marcus was leading people away
from his church into these outdoor charismatic meetings in which the prophet would put his hands
on people's heads and invoke the spirit and they would begin to speak in prophecy. They would speak
in tongues. The women were invited to participate in ways that Irenaeus thought was completely wrong
and indecent. So he accuses them, he accuses the prophet of seducing these women, getting them
pregnant, making fools out of them, all kinds of accusations that are very often made when religious
groups are in disfavor by others. This happens when, you know, well I don't know about examples now,
but well contemporary politics, yeah it happens all the time and I don't want to get caught up in
that. When you talk about when you talk about political figures really involved in sexual
seduction we've seen this in recent times yes you talk about sort of horrendous secret cults with
seducing children and all kinds of things. Those accusations were made in antiquity.
They were made against Jews in some cases by Christians and in some cases Jews made them
against Christians. They even can eat babies and kill them in their sacred rituals just as
Jews were called baby killers. So these kinds of accusations of cannibalism and sexual irregularity
are the ways that you attract groups you don't like and I think that Marcus was a
prophet and a teacher, charismatic. The bishop didn't like at all that he was taking people out of
the bishop's group. Thank you.
