Where do all the mythologies come from? The stories of all these religious views?
Where do they originally come from? Their origins? They have found in El Castillo, Spain,
Paleolithic cave art, and Bernie Taylor, who wrote a book called Before Orion and has a website
called beforeorion.com, is going to discuss this with us and show us a lot of images of cave art
and where a lot of the original ideas of mythologies may come from.
There's a lot of paleolithic art that looks like celestial bodies, but you know the old saying
as above so below. So I'm wondering if you guys agree when you see this video, if this is what's
going on. Stay tuned, tell me what you think and don't forget to subscribe, like, and comment your
thoughts down below. We are MythVision. Welcome back ladies and gentlemen, your host Derek Lambert.
You guys know I always bring you something new and interesting and I know this show is
going to be great. We have a guest with us, Bernie Taylor, is an independent naturalist,
thought leader, and author whose research explores the mythological connections
and biological knowledge amongst prehistoric indigenous and ancient peoples. His works in
these areas include biological time 2004 and before Orion finding the face of the hero 2017,
before Orion is premised on Joseph Campbell's hero's journey monomyth that is at the core of
stories worldwide among indigenous peoples, the ancients and our modern society. Before Orion
explores a deeper route for this monomyth by looking at how hunter-gatherers viewed themselves
within the natural and spiritual worlds throughout Paleolithic cave art from 40,000 years ago.
Taylor proposes that select cave paintings are fundamental pieces in the human journey
to self-realization, the foundation of written language and a record of biological knowledge
that irrevocably impacted some of the artistic styles, religious practices, and stories that are
still with us. Taylor addresses a profound archaeological elephant in the room by opening up
an uncharted place in our history which points to the cultural ancestors of mankind in western
North Africa. Welcome to the channel here, MythVision Podcast, Bernie. How you doing, brother?
Thank you for having me on, Derek. This is the big show. Last night Helen and I were chatting,
and she said, what podcast is going to be on tomorrow? And I said, this is the closest one
to my work. Yeah, this is going to be a good one. I saw a few of your clips. I want to go
and tell everybody there is a YouTube channel. I don't know if you push your YouTube channel,
but if you're interested in seeing some short clips and stuff on what he's doing here,
obviously go subscribe. That's down in the description of this video so you guys can go
over there and subscribe to the channel. I'm really interested in this because what you discussed,
even in the short snippets of the videos and what you've emailed me and in the images that
we're going to go through today, part of my deconstruction out of fundamentalism delves
into some of what you're going to present today, and that opened my mind. I was no longer in this
little corner ranting about what my view is correct and everybody else is wrong. This made
beauty much bigger, and so I want to welcome you to the channel. Thank you for coming in,
and let's get started. Have you ever had the feeling waking up in the morning that your world
was going to change? Yeah. This is one of those mornings I tell you. My name is Bernie Taylor.
I'm an author and naturalist, and I start with the naturalist because I started with the animals.
I was interested in the migration of animals, salmon, geese, elk, and deer, and I was looking
at from the perspective of how did Native Americans know how to time these animals? They
didn't show up to the rivers to hope that the salmon would be there. They showed up when the
salmon would be there because they had biological indicators to tell them to do that. I worked
through that roadbook biological time to explore this sort of thing, and I shared the work not
just with the tribes, but with Fish and Wildlife Agencies. The federal state level gave academic
presentations at the universities and so forth. It became mainstream pretty quick because it was
very easy. I'm the Pacific Northwest. Salmon are never early or late. They're always on their own
time as a concept, and the time is exploreable. It's predictable. Someone said to me, well,
you know, if Native Americans have these traditions, perhaps people in Pelicic Europe,
tens of thousands of years ago had it, and maybe it's in their cave art. That was some 12, 13 years
ago that I worked on that. I was strictly interested in the biological clocks, the time of the animals.
I was not interested in myth and all these sort of things. I mean, I knew who Young was and Campbell,
but I really didn't know who they were. I put the book down and said, I'm going to come back in 10
years after this sort of gets into the mainstream, the biology stuff. Then I'll come back, you know,
add on to it. When I came back to add on to it, there was a whole new dating of Pelicic
cave art through a new technique. Prior to that, it was a wishy-washy whether something was 15 to
20,000 or 30,000 years ago, but they came up with a technique that brought us to a place called El Castillo
in the northern part of Spain. Can you see that image? Yeah, that looks great.
So this image is called the gallery of discs. It's about 10 meters across.
So that's pretty huge, right? So then you're talking maybe, you know, seven meters high
from the floor to the ceiling, to the ceiling at the top of this image. And when I first approached
us, I was counting red discs because I was interested, you know, maybe to some biological
timing mechanism, you know, how to found salmon, caught salmon or hunted deer, that sort of stuff.
And I didn't see it. I counted these things at every different way. And then I'm just one day
just sitting back. And I said, Oh my God, there's more in there than these red discs. And the first
image that I saw was of an elephant. And it's the elephant to the viewers right with the trunk up.
And I said, Wow, that's pretty cool. That looks like an elephant. But they're done. And
it wasn't until a year later that I recognized that the artist used the same ear and the trunk
for a second elephant. So if you turn your head 90 degrees, it's the same elf. It's the same ear
and trunk. Wow. Exactly. I didn't realize that I didn't see that till a year later. And this was
about a three year process of going through these images. And I reached out to a friend from my
distant past, not a friend, but someone I encountered on my distant past who is a wildlife
biologist. And we went through all these animals to determine what they were, perhaps, and what
they were doing. And fairly quickly after I saw the elephant, I saw another key image. And that's
this teacher and apprentice. Okay. And you've had guests on and your general theme is this myth of
where do we come from? What do we think? What are the stories that we tell? And why do we tell them?
Well, if there's an original story, it wasn't somebody just talking to himself. It was somebody
talking to another person. He was sharing the myth. And in this image, we have this apparently older,
this man with a big nose and dark hair and speaking to the ear of the apprentice. And the
apprentice's eyes are those red discs. They're wide open. You can see this nostrils flare and you can
see his mouth. And the teacher has this big nose and kind of open mouth. And he's going towards
the ear of the apprentice. So what we're exploring right now is possibly the first myth,
the root of the tree. If there is one root or tree, because there are, of course, many roots,
maybe this is the ground that surrounds the roots. This is where it all comes from.
So far back in time, 34,000 years ago in the Palo Alto cave art of Spain.
And this is a very important, this is a very important figure because these are two people
interacting with each other. It's not just a deer on the wall or an orac or something like that.
This is characters, one is telling a story from the old to the young.
And we can learn a little more about the teacher by the fledging eagle that sits on his shoulders.
It stands about a foot high. It's fledging because it still has the downs. This bird hasn't flown.
In that part of the world at that time, this would indicate a mid-June time period.
So the artist is not just telling us the characters, but he's telling when the story starts.
The story starts when the eagle fledges. When it drops, it's when it drops, it's down and gathers
its wings. And just as it's a very animist or Native Americans might tell stories of their
calendar, typically lunar calendars, they'll say in the moon of making fat or the moon of the
when the deer drop, when the horses drop their foals or something like that.
So we're starting the story in the moon or the nation, the period when the golden eagles fledge.
And what's brilliant about this is that as we looked at the, we have this teacher next to him,
it almost looks at the hair of the teacher is the beagle, the head of the eagle.
So the two or one, this is not just an eagle staying on her shoulder. The man is morphing or
transforming into an eagle. Interesting. Now, when you think about the myths you heard, how many
how many of them have you heard or read about a man transforming into a raptor?
Of course, the ancient Egyptians, right? Among all the Abrahamic religions, we have angels,
the transformation into a bird. You can go around the world and the shamanic animist practices,
people transform into a bird to reach to travel to the great beyond.
You could even speculate if this is deeply rooted into some of these things that even like
the dove Holy Spirit concept, you could maybe read that into these things. You know what I mean?
It would be the same. The bird is the intermediary between the earthly and the heavenly world.
The bird is the spirit that travels between them. And for the shaman to travel between them,
he becomes the bird. And that's a fundamental foundation of myths around the world.
And perhaps it came to this place, from this place, or the parents or grandparents
of these artists, tens of thousands of years ago. It's a completely way of seeing the world.
In the past image, we saw this teacher that transforms his head into an eagle or a raptor,
this young juvenile bird. And here we see another character. And if you look at his right hand
is raised, he holds an egg and his left hand is against the wall. And his left leg is lifted up
and he doesn't appear to have a right leg. He's wearing a mask. On one side of his mask you can
see that an eagle speak, which would be my left, the side where his raised hand is with the egg.
You can see the eagle speak. And on the other side of his mask, you can see an eye.
Okay, a slight eye. And at the bottom of that mask, you can see a,
we're actually, I can zoom in on this. We're going to do this. We're going to go attack.
We're going to do it right. Yeah. Yeah. We're going to look,
if you look at, we're going to look at his mask.
And here we can see an eagle's beak coming off the one side of his mask.
And so he's, he's, he's transforming to an eagle. And the other side of the mask, we see
an eye. At the bottom of the mask, we see a mouth with some teeth. Okay. So we have this character
and his, his hand that's against the wall or arm against the wall is, looks feathered
as if he's transforming into an eagle. And, um, well, this, this, this character
that we just saw will call the cosmic man who transforms an eagle is a 90 degrees turn
of the teacher who you saw with the eagle on his shoulder.
That, that takes some skill to come up with something like that, especially in the, in,
in that time you'd imagine, you know. So this is what I think happened. Okay.
I think that there were, um, there were geniuses today, right? There were extraordinary
geniuses today. And I believe they happened, there were extraordinary geniuses then.
This artist with these, with the same set of images you've seen,
he creates and transforms into about a dozen characters.
And you just saw a few. So you can imagine this is done in stone.
Right.
Okay. It's actually lines. It's actually limestone, which is about as hard as your
fingernail, but still you, you only have one shot to get it right.
Wow.
So we're going back to this concept of the mythology. We have this transformation. It's
not a one off with the, with the eagle on his shoulder. It's a man who actually transforms
fully into an eagle as is, as in shamanic traditions today around the world.
It's in us. So the question is, how can this be in us?
I mean, really, how do people all around the world have the same fundamental
transforming into a bird, a high flying bird to reach into the great beyond as a,
they're a spiritual realm. How do they do? So what, so something,
how does it become all around the world, Derek?
It's a great question. I, you said it best, I think at the start, nature. I mean,
they're not only part of nature, but they're observing nature and all these things, I think
they're inherently within us. And one thing I would just say personally, my, my wife,
I think we've been taught by the Judeo-Christian world that, well, you know, we are like almost
completely separate from the animal kingdom. I don't necessarily think that way anymore.
You know, I think that we are part of it. We may be the greatest of the animal kingdom when it
comes to thinking and the way that we are able to craft and the brilliance that man has at the
same time, we're part of it. So this is a good point. I'd like to hear your thoughts though.
Well, this is part of a story. Okay. And you've had guests come on and talk about Joseph Campbell
and that sort of stuff. And Joseph Campbell said that there's a journey and that there's a say,
a hero's journey. Actually, I gotta find the right image. Joseph Campbell said that there's a hero's
journey. And on that hero's journey, there's a novice apprentice. And the novice apprentice
goes off into the world, and he accepts the call. And on that call, in Harry Potter terms,
he encounters his spiritual helpers, all the, his colleagues, his teachers that turn it,
become in animals or not, right, come in and out of animals, transform. And in Frodo,
the Lord of the Rings, he also has a band of people that gather around him who help him. And
all they're all, most of them are, we'll describe as non-human, right? They're elves and there's
hobbits and doors, all this sort of stuff. I love those movies, yeah. They're great. And
well, this character, this cosmic man that we saw transforms into the bird. We can see him again,
behind this image of the horse of this other speckled mare. And he's transforming into the horse.
He becomes a centaur, if you will. And this is most likely the origin of the Greek centaur.
So he's not just, just riding the horse, he actually becomes one with the horse.
In the pelithic story, they didn't have, you know, Frodo's sting and magic sting, the blade,
and they didn't have the, the, the, the, the blank, the magic cloth that made him invisible.
They didn't have all those, those tricks and tools. What they had is the other animals in
this world that he gained strength from. And he gained strength, in this case, from the horse.
And he becomes one with the horse in his gaining of that strength. So we talked to you saying
earlier, that's amazing that the artist can be overlapping these images. And well, we're, we're,
we've gone so far beyond what people could do today with photoshop, much less sculpted on a wall.
And in stone, I mean, this is, there's no eraser for this, you know, there's no backspace, there's no,
yeah, this is, this is extraordinary genius. This is something that we couldn't even imagine.
And if people had extraordinary genius at that time to do this, what was going on in their minds?
That what was, what was their concepts of psychology there? Were they the Carl Jung's of
their time with the Joseph Campbell's of their time? What else did they carry with them? And it's,
it's a, it's a fascinating concept. How we, how we, how we potentially,
how, we're here. We're here. And how we, so you see me now, right? Yeah, you're cut off at your
bottom lip though. Okay, there you are. Okay. How we, how we see the world.
And how we, how we see people from the past. Now, Joseph Campbell said, this is hero's journey,
and here goes on his journey. And he encounters helpers who give him magical strengths. And
at some point that journey comes to face his own fears. And the fears could be a dragon, it could be
a lion, could be Darth Vader. Okay. And remember the story of in the second, the second main
Star Wars movie, The Empire Strikes Back, Luke Skywalker is that he's outside the cave with,
with Yoda. And he's hearing voices that are calling in, calling them there. And he wants to go down
and he asks Yoda, what do I bring with you? And Yoda says, you only bring yourself in there.
Okay. Well, we've just gone down to that same cave. And we're seeing our self, our distant past,
who we were in, in the same way that Luke did. And when Luke, he goes down, he starts battling
with Darth Vader. He lobs off the helmet of Darth Vader, which is a mask, right? And
mass falls to the ground. He sees his own self in there. And so ultimately, Luke is fighting with
himself. He's fighting with his own inner demons. And Joseph Campbell and others have said that
when you're fighting the dragon or the hero fights a dragon, it's really fighting the fears within
yourself. Okay. And that's, that is something among, it's not a American thing or European thing or
African thing. It is a human thing. And when we talk about our personal issues and complexes,
and all these problems we've had in life, and we dwell in them, we're going back to those fears.
And we fun at some point, we face them, and we can move on and we can sort of, we can laugh about
them. We've got it behind us. And we've talked about how it's empowered us to move forwards.
And that things, and that is sort of the concept of what I believe is part of the cave artists
we're doing. And that is, it's absolutely, I'm getting better at this.
I'm getting better at this. Okay. And so that's what we find with this, this hero on his journey.
And on his journey, he comes to face himself. And the hero, you can see him with red hair.
And he's faced, he's faced himself and this other two-headed character,
apparently two-headed character. And the reason they look different is all these characters
that I've shown you so far, they're actually constellations. Okay. The man, the cosmic man
is Hercules. The eagle is Aguila. The horse is Pegasus, the combination of the cosmic man and
the horse becomes Sagittarius. And as we go around this whole panel, it's the hero on his journey
as he encounters the animal as you would see, not just on land, but you would see into the night
sky. So the genius, in shorter geniuses, not just in their artwork, but this was his, as above,
so below world. And that place, that space in between where the spirit's realm. And this
particular image, we have the character, the constellation Orion. He's holding the club.
And you can see his vice, you can see the two of the bell stars near his waist. And at his shoulder,
you can see the red disc to create two stars. And then by his feet, you see the,
let's say, the etching open of the rock to create two more stars, Rigel's four-foot
and Syphus's rear foot. And he encounters himself on the same journey, which is the constellation
Perseus. And Perseus swims the, is swimming the milky way,
celestially. And in this case, he's, he is coming to face himself. And he's battling with himself.
So this person is swimming, you can see how his down hand is cupped and his two arms are up and
as a crawl. And his head is bobbed up and down. But in this image, the artist transformed that
swimming to actually battling with himself. So that, that down arm that's cupped is ready to box.
It's ready to punch. And his up arms are holding the red-haired hero back.
So it becomes a battle between the two. And so the artist is, he's telling us a story,
not just a hero that goes on this journey, but he's telling us about the psychological battle
that the hero has. You know, something that I, I just realized, first of all, this is
a wonderful how you, you contrasted these images so that we could see them better.
But my question would be, did you discover this yourself? Or is there a certain team that found
this and saw these images that you're looking at? One of the reasons I ask is because these red
discs that are lined up in the middle, when we first saw the first image, like, are those stars,
is that the Milky Way? What constellation pattern is this giving you a sign to look for something?
How did you know to look for that? Does that make sense? Like,
Okay, two questions. So the first question is, is this my work? The dating of the panel that
34,000 years ago was by a chemical, a new technique that when the calcium carbonate secretes from the
limestone, it's, it's a dateable, it's a dateable, it's dateable. When it goes on top of the, the,
the red discs, it has to be, it has to be younger than the red discs, because the red disc is below
it. So you can say the red disc is at least as old as 34,000 years ago, if that's the dating of the,
the calcium carbon secretion. That was done in science, the journal science about 10 years ago.
Okay. That's where everything, that's where I start. So nothing else that you see, or you've
heard that you're hearing about this panel and others I do in my, in my book, are, are published
anywhere else. So this, so now, add on to that question is, is this an original work? The Greeks,
the Romans, the Phoenicians, the Egyptians, and everybody else in that ancient world had been
here. And they, they looked at these images, and they walked, they had, they recognized the hero,
and they recognized, you know, they recognize Orion, because he's an obvious one. And they,
they walked away with different stories though. And so in the labors of Hercules, Hercules travels
around the place, and the greater Mediterranean region, and he basically, he doesn't battle with
himself, he battles with everybody he meets. Okay, he wrestles with them and all that sort of stuff.
And in the Paleolithic story, Hercules and Orion are actually the same character at different
points in his journey. So the one that we had with the cosmic man is Hercules, that's northerly,
and this character here is Orion, he's going south, two ends of the panel. And astronomically,
when one rises the other sets, they're never seen in the night sky at the same time.
And that's the transformation moment from the, from the apprentice to become the hero, when he
faces- Or going into the underworld and rising above, you know, could- You guy, oh, this is the
world- Right, right, but that's, yeah, like the, the, the heart of the earth is Jesus. I always
reference back to Christianity just for the sake of my audience, but worldwide, this is a universal
picture image. And this is the, one thing I have to give you some props on about this is,
this actually brings beauty to, you know, if we were looking at these things like this, I think,
and it would just be my opinion, I think a lot of our problems would be solved, but there seems
to be this poison, I think, of fundamentalism, that it's, it's a tough one because it's this
I'm right, you're wrong thing rather than looking at it kind of, I guess you'd say esoterically in
a sense, you know, let's look inside ourselves. That's, you know, you don't have to get weird,
you don't have to think there's a man sitting on a cloud, okay? We're talking psychological,
we're talking humanity, right? Like should we love each other and try to find our own narrative?
Anyway, I'm preaching in a way right now because it's like, I feel what you're saying here and I
live like that. It's just the way I am, you know, as a human and I hate the division that religion
causes when if we saw this as, as the source, we wouldn't be, I'm right, my belief's right,
you're wrong type stuff. And I actually mainly, you know, that's kind of what I do. What saved me
from that mindset is some of this material, not this exact research, but you know what I mean,
like opening up. Exactly. Thank you. I'm with you. And on this joint, he encounters a dolphin,
it's actually spitting bottlenose dolphin, that's why it's appendages, and it lifts him out of the
water just like you'd see in SeaWorld. So that's the same Orion character, okay? And in this case,
he's traveling from, from north to south. And I'm gonna knock on some of these. And then we can look
at those red discs. What do they symbolize? What are those red discs there? They symbolize everything.
So as we're going through these characters, we're finding them incorporated into the characters
themselves. So they become the stars on the shoulders of Orion as well as his waist. They
become the speckles on the mare. And the artist captured the night sky through these,
through these red discs, the stars. And it's, it's, it's a phenomenal concept that they're just
not pictures of the night sky. They are the constellations as well. So is that, is that the
horizon? I'm sure you know what I'm asking? Like it? It is the, in some cases, it is the astronomical
horizon, yes. In some cases. Okay. And I'm going to start, I'm going to go to this, this two slides
that's tied together back with what you're, what you're asking. And this is, we have the line,
the lioness is looking, you can, is licking the lion. So this lion is 10 meters across, almost,
it's actually eight meters across. He used lion, right? And you can see his paws going forwards,
and they kind of, they drop below the horizon a little bit. Okay. And this, this is a phenomenal,
absolutely phenomenal image. This was actually the second image that I saw the head of the lion
after the elephant. And now we're going to look at that lion, his front paws overlap without hero.
Okay. Okay. Just as we saw the man back, facing himself, bowing himself and being
lifted by the dolphin, the lion overlaps and is pressing down on the hero. The hero is not
having a good day. This goes right to King David, right to Samson. They're fighting the lion and
they have to conquer or win and both of them went out. Exactly. And it's the, in the Greek
mythology, this is the Nimean lion. And the Nimean lion ate humans. Okay. And what he, he put, he ate
them in his cave and was splattered by the blood as he ate them. And then he licked it off. And so I
believe that one of the Greek interpretation of, one of the Greeks interpretation of this image
was that the red disc became the blood on the Nimean lion. And Hercules goes into the cave
in his first labor to kill the Nimean lion. And he does so with a club in his hands because
the lion's skin isn't pervious to arrows and knives. So he actually has to wrestle with the
lion. And that's what we see in this image. And so he's battling with his, you know,
he's battling with his, he has to face his fears of, of the lion itself. But fear is,
is a psychological reaction. If there's a spider on the wall and you're afraid of that spider,
well, that spider is highly unlikely to move from that wall to you. You've created a fear of
something that highly, it's not likely got to happen. Okay. And you can't go get rid of that
spider until you first get rid of the fear of getting rid of, of going the other spider.
And that's part of, that's part of who we are as humans. And so when the, well,
when the hero slays the lion, he, he then gets around his neck, the pelt of the lion.
Yeah. Interesting, right? Harry's for, for remainder of his journey. And this is many
mythologists among the ancients walked away from this cave and they came up with different
interpretations of this. But in fact, it is the, it's from the same original story,
which is a pretty incredible concept. And there's another, there's another story
for the biblical scholars. And it's the, the Jonah and the whale. Okay. So remember our
apprentice with the wide red eyes. He's in the belly of this whale.
Yeah. Fascinating. So the Jonah story is probably very old. Okay. And it's an animus story. It's a
story of the hero that goes on this journey and that he gets help, spiritual help from the animals
in his world. Okay. So the root of all religion of all faiths is this animism that we are
came to the animals. And when native, when we arrived, when Europeans arrived, I assume you're
European to say as well, when we arrived on the American shores, we encountered Native Americans
who had these animus beliefs and that people in their, in their mythology, what we call mythology,
people talk, animals talk to animals and people talk to animals and so on and so forth.
And it's the same, it's the same psychological tradition that we carry with us today. And who,
who, who would you say among the superheroes, Marvel comics, comics, do you see this sort of,
do you see this kind of relationship? You talking about communicating with animals?
I'm communicating with animals. Hit a brain fart. Help me out. Help me out.
Right. So you see me now, right? Okay, good. Well, think who, top, top five Marvel superheroes
who are animals. Let's just say, you know, you got it. He gains the strength of the wolf.
You've got the blue professor guy. He's, he's, what is he, what kind of animal was he?
Batman's obvious. I was going to say Batman earlier too when you said, you know, I've heard
this theory that Joker is a reflection or an internal reflection of Batman himself.
And if you listen to that movie that I think Heath Ledger was in, he's like, I'm going to kill you
because he says, um, do you want to kill me or something? He says, why would I want to kill you?
You know, like he's less psyche or something of Batman. It was just a weird interpretation. I don't
know how true it is, but it's actually pretty good. That goes to the Lord of the Rings and Frodo,
Golem's trying to kill him, but Frodo can't kill Frodo to protect himself because then he becomes
Golden. And that big, so Batman needs to have the Joker incarcerated and not, if he, if he kills
Joker, he becomes the Joker. Interesting. And that, that's a, that's a very old story.
And so now what do you see right now? You and me. Okay. And that's it. It's an interesting,
interesting, it's a story from a, was a student of classical literature or teacher of classical
literature. Um, and he knew, you know, he knew the stories and he developed, he developed the Lord
of the Rings from stories that he already knew. And then he added the language and the characters
and so forth. Um, and knock, knock off some of these.
Once you have the archetype, I guess it's probably not too difficult for guys like
him, you know, that is, that, that is the thing. It is the archetype.
And so we have all, we have all these phenomenal characters on this gallery just 10 years across
34,000 years ago, a minimum dating. And there's another, there's another 30 or,
there's about another 30 or so on this panel that, you know, we would just, we would, we would,
so you tell me when you see me again. Okay, cool.
And on this panel, Carrot goes from north to south, he's Hercules, he counters the ego,
Agaba, Pegasus, the, um, the whale, the dolphin going south is Pisces and the whale going north
is, is Pisces. So as he go, depending on which direction he's moving, he sees the stars differently.
Um, and so he has to get back again via the ocean. He uses the whale. Um, and so there's a,
there's a monk seal, which is monsters, uh, sea monster, Cetus, and there's a whole bunch of marine
animals, including the whale and the dolphin. And that's in the so-called astronomical sea.
And, um, in astronomy is a place called the sea. And all these animals are in that place.
And so the, and as he keeps going down, he counters a dog. It's a, it's a spitz dog. He
counters a giraffe. And we saw the lions next to that are some, um, bears. And there's a,
there's a huge crocodile that spans the, the length of the panel and that becomes Draco,
the constellation. Um, so the origin of dragons is in fact this image because the Greeks then
called them Draco, um, became the dragon. And the bear, the lion is Leo, the bears become
Ursa Major. Um, and the dog is, is Cirrus. And there's many other constellations. And the,
so he goes to North and North to South. He goes from, um, the Iberian Peninsula across the
strage abroad, just as the hero Hercules did, um, on his labors, and he lands in West North Africa.
So that's where this gets really important. So this is a story, not just of Spain. It's a story
of Africa. Um, and we say that we come from Africa, but the story of where we come from
in Africa changed about three years ago. And there was a discovery, a place called Jebel
Irhud in Morocco. And it's a cave where they found, um, human remains to 300,000 years ago.
So these are Homo sapiens. These aren't Neanderthals and, um, Homo rectus and all that sort of
stuff. These are Homo sapiens 300,000 years ago. And they became the oldest, um, known fossils of us.
Okay. And that is within, that is the same place as this hero travels to on his journey
to Africa and then back again to Spain. So how old are these stories?
You know, you, you, I got a comment on this because this is beautiful. Uh, first off,
I've been looking at what they call the great year. Uh, obviously there is the, the large
scale of time. And, you know, I've had some people tell me, well, you know, we could easily
figure it out with a little bit of mathematics. I'm sure they could have figured out that we
were in a larger scale of time than just the earth's rotation or then just a year. You know,
this is the great year. And it, I personally have always thought if one degree is 72 years of this
great year, approximately that we're measuring time, I feel like we've been through quite a
few of them in humanity and we've observed and repeated this cycle, you know, this big great
year. And I just feel like these stories could have gone back, maybe possibly the animals might
have changed like culturally. Um, and they might have seen a different shape of something or
whatever in certain, uh, astronomical signs, but nonetheless, the same archetype taking place,
the journey of man, we looked up and saw down below and we've mimicked it. We see it in the
structures. We see it in one of your videos that you actually sent to me on your YouTube channel,
where you show, you know, the pyramids and a lot of these structures that we've built mimic the
heavens above. So I don't know how old and I'm, I love wondering. It's a great mystery to me, but
I think it's older than just these cave arts. I think it's much older than just 30,000 years.
That's just my opinion, but it's completely speculative on my part. I don't have any evidence.
Oh, you're absolutely right. Because people don't start by engraving this sort of stuff
etching it into the walls. They start by telling stories around campfires.
And the El Castillo mountain is conical shape, just like the Great Pyramid,
the Golden Pyramid, I should say. And there's another character in this. So we've seen all these,
this man, this man who transforms into animals that give him strength.
We have that same character on the gallery disk. The man who transforms into this, um,
this other being, which is identical to the Great Spinks at Giza. And this character,
that head is actually just on top of the lion's head. It's almost up the line.
The lion somehow turned his head, the line that you saw earlier than the main lion.
Almost as if he turned his head, he looked up and this is what you'll see. And on this gallery
disk, you can see that teardrop on the forehead. You can see that strong flat jaw and you see the
without the nose of the Great Spinks. And these, these, they're connected. So that the Egyptians
were among the, actually, either Egyptians themselves or travelers who had gone to these
caves on behalf of the Egyptians, perhaps the Phoenicians, brought back these images and these
stories and told them. And I believe that the Great Spinks, all the Spinks, I'm sorry, all of the
Great, all the Egyptian period merits are based on this El Castillo conical mountain. And of course,
the, the limestone that's in it is also the limestone on the outside of it. And if you remember,
the pyramid Giza were covered with limestone. And so I believe that they're all connected. So how
far back in time are we connected? The answer is, we don't know. But it's more than 34,000 years ago.
And I have these, this fundamental set of characters in another cave I do in my book,
called Gorham's Cave. And I see it on another panel that I don't, I didn't have permission to use the
images. So if you're going to, if an independence going to go down this road and basically explode
archaeology, you better have permission to use those images. So in this particular image,
we see a barberry ape. And what's fascinating about it is that the arms and legs are crossed in
the same way. And the head of this, this is probably the head of the barberry apes is not as high as
that one. But you can see his mouth and his eyes and you can see his body parts. It's absolutely
fascinating. Barberry apes, they're in Gibraltar now, but they've only been there for a few hundred
years. And prior to that, they were an animal that's native to the Atlas Mountains of Morocco.
And so the question is, is, so you see me now, right? So the question is how, how far back in time?
And that's actually a really important question, because that might explain why people around
the world have these fundamental cosmic mountain myths, that rivers of transformation, and they have
the individual, typically man, who transforms into a bird to travel to the spirit world
in the great beyond. And so 34th Native Americans came across, or they came down into,
you know, let's say conservatively dating 16,000 years ago, they came into the Great Plains.
But they were in Beringia for until starting about 22,000 years ago. And so the so-called
Bering Strait was actually a large landmouse 700 miles from north to south. And people lived up
there just as like Eskimos live now, you know, in Alaska, or, you know, in an indigenous lifestyle.
Okay. So 22,000 years ago, there was plenty of time for these myths and these stories and the
constellations, as they were, to have traveled across Siberia and into Beringia and come down
with the Native Americans. Native Americans have fundamentally the same myths. And that is, you
have, there's also plenty of time that people could have left North Africa and traveled to
Australia and brought them in different parts of Asia and throughout Africa itself. The constellations
that we find around the world are recognized, generally recognized, are serious as a dog or
canid, which is very interesting because it doesn't look like a dog. It's a bright star. We have
Orion as a hunter. Okay. We have Pleiades as a group of women that Orion chases. And we have
Ursa Major as a legged animal, typically a female bear. So I'm going to mark off, you know, people
can look at night sky and come up with a bear for Ursa Major. I'm going to mark off that people
could look in the sky and see Orion as a man. And, you know, I'll give him, he's, if they see Orion
as a man, he's chasing a bunch of women in Pleiades. But how did you get, how did we get
serious as a dog around the world? I would say that came from original source. And a lot of these
image, these constellations on this panel, we don't have in the Americas and we don't have them
because the horse didn't exist, didn't exist in the Americas before we were, Spaniards arrived.
So Native Americans didn't have horses. So they couldn't have Pegasus in their constellations.
They couldn't have the Barbary ape, which is actually Gemini, the constellation Gemini. They
couldn't have all these. So they use new, new animals and figures in their world to make the
constellations. But at its source, I believe this is the source because you do find not everybody
in North America has serious as a dog, but you have it among people in, let's say, the greater
Alaska region and throughout the United States. And so I would say that this, this core myth has
traveled around the world. And so why do we tell, why do we have these same beliefs? Why do we tell
these same stories? Because it came from a place at least 34,000 years ago, if not longer.
And we took these myths and these constellations and this core psychology of humans with us,
the cosmic mountain, the river of transformation and these spiritual beliefs that we, we hold dear
to all that stuff. You know, all these stories in the biblical account pop up in my head.
I was just talking to Dr. Robert M. Price just yesterday. We did an interview on Adam. We did
an interview on Noah and we did an interview on Samson. And it was really interesting. What he
did is he showed critical scholars are finding some repetitive themes like Adam in Genesis one,
for example, when it goes to create man, maybe a flood myth, even in Genesis one, because we're
separating water from the land and that's the same image we get in Noah's day. But then you get to
lot and lot has to repopulate the earth so much so that he has to sleep with his own daughters.
It's like, hold on. I thought Abraham was a few kilometers down the road, my friend. Isn't there
plenty of ladies over there? So you find this myth of the flood in the narratives. And then you get
to the new, of course, what we call the New Testament. And the same kind of things you start
to see, but different, different details. It seems celestial in nature. So I really find this
interesting. Do you think any of this ties in with like the devil's pulpit or, you know,
something in that nature, if you will, like Hamlet's Mill, things like that?
Okay, so I'm not familiar with the devil's pulpit, but I did read Hamlet's Mill.
And I'm gonna say a few things about it. And some of you listeners aren't gonna like it.
And I'm basing that going on, looking at the record, what they were trying to do, because
now we're right now, we have the teacher's edition book to the whole thing. And Hamlet's,
the authors wrote extremely well written book. I mean, it's a work of beauty. I mean, no question
about it. And what they did prove, what they did prove is that, convincingly prove, I should say,
is that people were recognizing constellations throughout. There were common constellations
and myths around those constellations, probably back, you know, five, six thousand years ago.
Okay, so how people had traveled. And that was really good. Excellent work. What they didn't do
is show that there was, that people prior to the ancient Greeks understood procession.
They in no way demonstrated. They said, well, if you look this and this and put them all together,
maybe they do. But the oldest myths they probably had were probably like five, six thousand years
ago, tops, because they're really, as far as they went as much as into the Neolithic. They didn't
go into the Paleolithic. Okay. And what we're looking at today is the ancient, the ancient Greeks
lifted the entire astronomical record from the Paleolithic cave artists, 34,000 years. They were
all the same constellations and the same water in the night sky. And even the astronomical
geography is the same with this, the sea. Okay. Now these ancient cave artists,
they didn't understand procession. And if you and me, actually I'm going to, because I'm kind of an
amateur astronomer, I've looked, if I looked at any of these images without using my software,
I couldn't tell you when that was in the processional cycle. I couldn't do it. And because the,
it's, and I don't believe that people throughout the, the ancient world prior to the Greeks could
do it either. I think that the Hippocrates who, who we say invented or discovered procession,
I think one of his sources was these Paleolithic cave images. And what he did see was that the
night sky had changed in the distant past. And from that he reasoned that he kind of worked
out the details. And what he, people talk about procession and including Hamlet's myth, they
talk about procession of the equinox. Okay. Everybody had these zodiacal constellations
that, that they marked as they hit the, had the, hit the equinoxes over 26,000 year cycle.
Right. Well, you just saw a bunch of constellations that are not zodiacal constellations.
Okay. You also saw a summer solstice time scene. Okay. The artist was telling us this happened
during mid-summer when golden eagles fledged. Okay. The ancient Egyptians, people keep saying,
they say the sphinx faces east, therefore it must be a vernal equinox marker. Well,
the new year for the ancient Egyptians was the summer solstice at the flooding of the Nile.
Okay. So this entirely lines up what the ancient Egypt Egyptians did for the sphinx and entirely
has the, for the Greek constellations, but it doesn't tell us there's no procession,
definitely no processional equinoxes markers for sure, a hundred percent,
because this is a summer solstice period time scene.
But so Hamlet's myth, what it gave us is kind of these, this flashlight in the darkness,
a scattered flashlights on the darkness to see that there was ancient astronomy and the ancient
astronomy was incorporated in myths. Right. But they did not show that the people prior to ancient
Greeks understood. That's okay with me. I don't have a dog in the fight because me and Dr. Luther,
my co-host, I don't know if you've seen him a few times, he actually has this interesting idea
on the dating of Hebrew Bible, if you will. I know this is obviously going to conflict with any
Jews who might believe that are Orthodox, but he believes that Genesis, of course,
and these Old Testament texts, even if they're taking and drawing from old sources,
were compiled and written approximately around the time when they are now in captivity in Greece.
So not saying all of them were because we have J source, H source, we have priestly source,
all these different sources, but the idea is you see the age constantly being brought up, age this,
age that. Now they didn't have ages like we did where we're like Iron Age or this age.
They had what appears to be ages in terms of celestial ages. It appears at least the way that
Jesus says the end of the age is coming, right? What age is that? Well, it appears he's entering
into Pisces in some sense being the fisher of men from the Lamb of God, Aries, and it seems in
some way this is a procession, but how come? Would it have Greco-Roman influence, I suspect?
I would say yes. I mean, if you read Dennis McDonald's whole Gospel, he wrote one on
Homeric epics and their influence on the Gospels. So if it's no older than Greece and Greece's ideas,
could it not be 5th century BC or newer? Well, as we saw with this, the man who travels in the
belly of the whale, that's Jonah, the Bible's stories are tens of thousands of years old
and we find the characters who climb the Cosmic Mountain, which of course pretty much every
biblical hero climbs the Cosmic Mountain, right? And it's transfigured or reborn or talks to the
Great Almighty and on this journey, the character does travel to a mountain and he starts the mountain,
which is El Castile. The cave is in fact in the Conical Mountain. So not all the stories in the
Bible, but many of the early stories in the Bible are based on myths from a far more distant time
that they rewrote for new settings, new costumes, new props that people,
pastoral people and their time could relate to and understand. So how old is the Bible?
I'm going to tell you it's 34,000 years old. Okay, okay. So would you say, let me rephrase that,
maybe we can cover like I'll be on the same page if you will. Do you mean the archetypes stories
are 34,000 years old or do you honestly believe like Jonah himself that they wrote? You see the
names, the characters, like you said, you're talking about the archetypes 34,000 at least.
So there, I'm going to say in the case of Jonah, okay, that it's based on this
Paleolithic story of the Prentice traveling in the belly of the whale. And that the ancient
ancient peoples had been there and they walked out and then they made that into the Jonah story.
So who is Jonah? Jonah is the apprentice here on his journey,
which Jonah of course goes on his journey, right? Okay, that's the whole thing.
And he takes his night, he takes his night journey across water too, right?
Yeah. So yeah, I'd say that's not an archetype. I think it's actually borrowed
from the image and from the cave image just as the Spinks was for the ancient Egyptians.
So like if I were to ask you, let's say, you know, because this isn't in your,
I don't think this is in your particular field, but if I were to say,
give me a date on exactly when Jonah was written, you know, like most the scholarship would look
and go, well, here's evidence that this took place in the, you know, here's evidence of
Greek influence. Here's evidence of this, this, that, and they'll use internal evidence to try
and come up with an idea of like, okay, this story was probably pieced together in 400 BC or 200,
300 BC, something like that from internal evidence. The, the story itself goes way back.
They borrowed it from previous probably civilizations or other cultures that were
using this story or something like that. Do you, do you agree with what I'm saying?
Okay, so here's the key word. You said written. I would change that to rewritten.
Okay. Okay. And when it was rewritten, they put together the pieces of their world at that time.
So it's a rewritten story of a, of a pallidic myth.
Okay. And we're on the same page, please. So let's take, let's look at the bird man.
Okay. The bird man are angels. Okay. Just one of this game. And so is, is the angel Gabriel
or reincarnation of this pallidic myth of the transcendent character who communicates between
the great almighty and man, or do we actually carry this archetype with us in our psychology?
So the question is, is an archetypal character for the angel, or is it actually a descendant
of the, the pallidic myth? And, you know, it's not just Christianity. It's actually all the Abrahamic
religions that have this, this angelic character. And you find it in, in its Garuda among the,
um, the hindies. We find this all over the world.
As serious. Yeah. Everybody hasn't. And everybody, for everybody's that transcendent character,
it's most often a raptor. Okay. It's something, you know, we do have doves, but it's most often a
raptor. It's never a bluebird. And it's never, you know, a swallow, whatever the story is. Okay.
But that the character is in fact a raptor. So is, are all of the stories surrounding the angel
Gabriel? Are they based on this? Well, Jesus, Angel Gabriel goes to, um, to Muhammad when he's a
young child in the cave. And he teaches him. And that's where he gains his, Muhammad first gains
his inspiration in a cave. Gabriel comes to Mary and tells him, tells her that she's pregnant.
And Jesus is two Jesus stories. One is the major where he's born. And the other is a cave.
Okay. Um, and so the, the cave, I don't believe that Muhammad was visited by an angel in the cave
or that Jesus was born in the cave. And the guys, those are true. But they're telling the same story
of where the, the divine hero came from. Interesting. And inspired by the, the, the birdman.
And I believe that is in fact this, this same story, this fundamental poetic myth that we've,
we've changed to new costumes, new sets, new props, and language for the people of that time.
How, how in depth does your book go into this? Does it go into some of these, uh,
ideas that we're discussing today? I mean, obviously some of the earlier stuff, but even
some of the 8,000, we're 8,000 pages, but it's kind of 8,000. Okay. So that's still a lot though.
Yes. Oh, that's a lot. And, uh, there's probably, oh goodness, there might be like,
there's easily over a hundred images. So is this only on Kindle? Because if it was a hard,
if this was a bound book, it had to be like a $70 book. Nobody can afford it.
Huge $70 book. And Kindle's great because you can zoom in on the images. Um, and you can,
audio, read back. Most people don't know that. So on an actual Kindle device,
but you can download Kindle books to your own tablet, um, without all the functions,
but it's all there. And Kindle books almost entirely below $10. Um, and so yeah. And I also
think that this is a work that in some, it's my work, but it's really humanity's work, right?
I think it's going to be around for a thousand years. And if you're writing a print book,
it's not really the way to go. Um, and your viewers could, or our viewers today could, you know,
just click on their computer and download the Kindle version, like right now. Um, and whereas
they have to wait weeks for a book and, um, and if it was a, it'd have to be in color,
which is a $70 book for this size. Um,
the, I definitely need you to get me a copy somehow. So we can, I was going to say this
way we can really probe even some of the things you talk about here and do maybe a series on some
of the stuff. I really find this fascinating. I don't know about you guys. If you're watching this,
make sure you guys go down in the description. Uh, I'll make sure, is this on Amazon?
Amazon, Kindle, yeah. It's actually in every book format that exists. So Barnes and Noble,
and Kubo, and they're all there. I'll put it in my Amazon link down there,
but also put your website. So if they want to just go there and get it either way,
I have an Amazon affiliate link down in the description. So regardless, I love what you
do here. And, and it dispels what we've been told in my opinion. What we've been told has caused
more, more issues than, uh, than really uniting us as humans. I'm seeing this pattern that you're
showing of all these myth, hero archetypes. Like this to me is beautiful. You know, like I can't,
for what it is, not for what it's turned into. And it makes me kind of like, I get why people want
to mock because it's like, for example, we talked about Ursa major minor, right? So we mentioned
the bear and, and here's Elijah being called bald head, right? And then these 42 kids get
mauled by the bear. Well, fundamentalists are the ones who interpret this literally.
You have God killing 42 kids. How good, I mean, how pretty does that look to you
when, well, well, just that spot, we're going to algorize or it doesn't mean what it says there,
but you've got donkeys, donkeys talking, you know, literally in. That's animism. That's
animism. Donkeys talking humans. Yeah. Right. And a snake, et cetera. However, in the literal sense,
in the way that, that the way that we've been told, this is where it starts to get really funny.
And that, that interpretation has caused a lot of division, a lot of deaths. And then the dogmas
that we've built up in these religious systems going all the, all the way down through history,
especially with what I look at with Christianity. And I don't just poke at Christianity. Like you
mentioned something here with Muhammad. Okay. I don't even think, you know, there's so many Muslims
in the world. I very much doubt you probably could count on a handful or two handfuls in the world
of Muslims that believe their book that know what you're talking about at best. I very much doubt
they approach us like this. They think there was really Muhammad inside of a cave who really was
approached by an angelic creature being, I mean, like in the literal sense, and it causes this division
and we want to try and break that down and show them what's really going on here. So they can
actually not necessarily hate the Bible, but maybe the Bible and these other stories love them for
what they really are, where those parts happen. I do also look at scholars who think a lot of
stuff may be fraud, you know, and added dogmas and stuff to these texts. So that's one of the
reasons why it's hard, I think, is you get this mishmash of stuff that happens and then doctrines
and divisions and you're of the circumcision and all this stuff. So I don't want to get caught up
in that. I like what you're doing though. This is my kind of favorite stuff.
We start with the question of did you wake up today and think that your world could change?
Has it changed?
Well, I'll put it like this. I don't throw out everything that I've been told. It makes me
re-evaluate. Once again, like we said off air, I always think I've got the answer and then I gotta
find myself, ooh, humble. I gotta realize maybe I don't know everything and that's why I try as a
host to remain as balanced as possible and to try and be like a Joe Rogan. I think Joe Rogan
does a great job, a fine job of trying to balance ideas. Sometimes he has his own opinions and he's
biased but I try to be that way and what you brought today I think in my audience who's watching
would also agree this is the best look you're gonna get at finding beauty in these ancient stories
rather than what we've been told they say by those who hold them sacred in the way that they
approach it. Would you agree with me on that? Before my work, the oldest story we had was the
Epic of Gilgamesh. Dating from 4,500 years ago is found in Sumerian deserts, right? Iraq.
And we looked at Gilgamesh and all the scholars of course field and said, well, he's got the
same problems we have today. We see this fundamental storyline. We're retelling Gilgamesh
and that was as far back as we went and now what we're doing is we're going back 30,000 years
before Gilgamesh and saying we're telling the same story, they have the same problems we have today
and not only that but we borrowed. We asked the ancient Greeks, Romans, the Phoenicians,
and Egyptians, they actually lifted the characters from that original pelvic story
and they dropped them into their own world. Makes me wonder what if that cave
art here that you're showing, what if that came from something 35, 40,000 years older than that
and that we've gone through these times of catastrophes where we've had to restart as humans
and we found our own, if you will, sketch of art and said... Oh, did I say that there is a...
Didn't I tell you that there's a version, this is a, that the pelvic, the Elkistil cave panel,
Gary Dis is a, it's a recreation of another one. I didn't tell you that.
The one that you show today is a recreation of... An older one, yeah.
Boy, that's not show, isn't it? That will have to be, I mean that's another hour so we'll have to do
that at a different time. We're gonna have to and everyone's gonna have to get the book.
It's a copy. It's a copy. Okay, this is cool. So we don't know for sure, even with the copied one.
The original one is without question.
The first. Okay, you heard it yourself. I really want you guys to go over to his channel,
make sure you guys go to Bernie Taylor's link down below, subscribe to the channel,
get the book. How much is it going for on ebook? On 8,000 pages for $9?
That's the best candle. That's what I'm talking about, brother.
What the gallery dis and some other panels are copied from are in the book. And I've never done
it on a podcast and it's in none of the videos I've made.
Well, this might be the first if you're willing. Yeah, you gotta leave some...
You gotta have it prepare your thunder but keep your lightning. So
people gotta go to the book and to your website finding this stuff to really get to the heart
of this stuff. But you got me peaked. I definitely am interested in seeing this and I'm in love with
it. So I don't know about you guys. Let me know what you think in the comment section.
Tell me what you think of his ideas and I'll also make sure you guys show him some love.
The websites in the description.
I put a lot of your statements you'd like to make to the audience.
Before Ryan for everything. So the webpage before ryan.com. He's before Ryan on Twitter,
Tumblr, Pinterest, Facebook, Reddit, the whole bit. And so I put whatever your platform is,
you can find material.
Thank you for joining me here on Myth, Vision Podcast and you guys never forget
we are Myth, Vision.
