Welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
Do you want to understand or learn about the origins
of the Bible from Egypt
or Egyptian origins of the Bible?
You've come to the right place.
I have a good friend, Derek Bennett, joining us today.
And we're gonna be covering a presentation of his
and then going to Q and A afterwards.
I hope people, before we get started with our intro,
will take the time and actually go
and subscribe to him.
I've got an echo here.
Bear with me for one second.
All right, subscribe to his YouTube channel.
Make sure that you hit that bell so you're notified.
This is how you support people like him.
He's got great content.
He's gonna really educate people today.
He also has a Patreon.
He is trying to do this as a full-time thing.
And when you hear the knowledge that he has come up with
from learning from academics,
it takes a skill set to really even sift through
and collect the information
and then kind of digest it
and then formulate it for a popular audience.
Derek's done this on Mythition multiple times.
And he has my name or I have his.
Doesn't matter if the chicken or the egg came first.
The point is Derek's rule and rock.
Go subscribe and join his Patreon.
Help support him.
And we also have the Patreon as well,
which I share this information and let everybody know.
Let's dive in, Derek.
I don't even wanna play games.
So real quick with our intro,
giving people a chance to tune in
and then we'll start with our presentation.
Derek Bennett, welcome back, man.
Before we hit that presentation,
tell us what we need to hear before we start.
I just wanna say I don't like the way the tears.
I cry every time I see that intro.
My goodness.
So yeah, hey, we're gonna be discussing comparisons
between many of the religious ideas and concepts
from ancient Egypt with what we find in Judeo-Christianity.
And it is legion.
I mean, it is quite surprising.
I'll be getting into why you don't often hear a lot
about this from a lot of mainstream academic scholars,
though you do hear about it from some.
Also, I just got my haircut
and I did this for you guys tonight.
If that's not sexual chocolate,
I don't know what is.
So this is love coming through the,
this is love right here.
So Derek, do you want me to just dive right through or?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
I just, we do have a special guest
who showed up on my chest this morning.
I woke up and I just, I felt bad on trying to move him off.
It's just like, dude, you wanna join us for the livestream?
Join us for the livestream.
So hello from Elf on the Shelf.
We're gonna have fun today.
It is Christmas season.
Hit a one if you love the channel here.
Like the channel and drop a one down in the chat.
The algorithm sees these spikes.
Chatting and comments and stuff help
the gods of ancient Egypt resurrect.
So let's help resurrect them
so people are paying attention.
Derek, I'm gonna go ahead and share the screen
and then you just say next.
And by the way, if Derek's choppy
or Derek gets cut out, he will come back.
He promised us to come back and guess what?
He keeps his promises.
All right, you talk to me.
Let me know when to go next, Derek.
And feel free, I will not actually,
let me real quick before I do this,
let me mute my mic.
I will pay attention to the chat on the side.
I will not be able to see your chat.
I might even jump in and communicate with you guys
and chat with you on the side.
But Derek, I'm listening to you and I will not interrupt you.
So please go.
All right, so this is just our basic cover screen here.
Egyptian origins of the Bible.
Those are of course the ancient pyramids.
I hardly need to introduce them.
Go ahead and move on to the next screen here.
So scholars of early Christianity,
primarily trained in classics,
that's Greco-Roman literature,
are keen to demonstrate Christianity's indebtedness
to the Greco-Roman world.
While this much is certainly correct,
many of them pay too little attention
to critical areas of study outside their purview.
The impact and influence of ancient Egypt
upon Palestine and the Greco-Roman world
upon both the old and new testaments cannot be overstated.
Taking a more comprehensive and interdisciplinary approach,
I seek to demonstrate that Christianity is as Egyptian
as it is Greco-Roman, Jewish or otherwise.
We can move on to the next screen here.
All right.
So when Egypt ruled Canaan,
the new kingdom period of Egypt saw its empire stretch
well into Northern Palestine
from about the 16th to 11th centuries BC.
So that's about half a millennium they ruled Canaan.
For millennia, Palestine remained a major trade route
between Egypt and the kingdoms of the North.
So just a quote here as an example.
Megiddo, set at an important crossroads
through which most of the region's trade must have passed.
Like Megiddo and Hazar further north,
the sites in Northwestern Palestine lie on or near
the Viamaris or ways of Horus as it was known,
the most important highway of Palestine in antiquity.
Armies, trade caravans, artisans and envoys
passed along this route,
putting them in almost continuous contact
with a wider cultural world, especially that of Egypt.
That's from Caroline R. Higginbotham,
Egyptianization and elite emulation in renaissance,
Palestine's fascinating work.
So this map that you see, go back, go back, go back.
This map that you see to the right here,
this shows just how extensive Egypt's kingdom was
during the new kingdom period.
You see, it's not just restricted
to what we now presently know as Egypt.
It stretched well into Canaan
and what we now call Palestine,
even well north of that region.
So we can go ahead and move on to the next slide here.
Egyptian gods in Palestine, archeological excavations
have unearthed numerous Egyptian artifacts
throughout the Levant, including funerary stele
from a cemetery at Deir al-Balla in Gaza,
depicting the deceased worshiping Osiris,
the god of resurrection and rebirth.
Astela from the 18th dynasty,
depicts Osiris's reign over Egypt
and the institution of Pharaoh as his earthly representative
in striking analogy to Psalm 78's portrayal
of God's reign over Israel with David
installed as his earthly regent.
This information comes to us
from the archeological study Bible published by Zondervan.
So this is by no means an atheistic or secular source.
It's from Zondervan, the publishers of the Bible
that they make this admission, more or less.
And on the right, what you see there,
that's one of these artifacts from Deir al-Balla in Gaza,
graphically depicting the worship
of the Osirian god, the Egyptian god Osiris,
the god who was a ruler of the Egyptian equivalent
of heaven, the netherworld,
and was the god of resurrection and rebirth.
They're in Palestine.
Move on to the next slide here.
So more samples of this to the left,
again, depicting Osiris worship.
These are artifacts found in Palestine,
Deir al-Balla in Gaza.
In the middle there, we have an idol of Osiris from Ashkelon,
which was the city just north of the Gaza Strip.
That's from about the 7th to 4th centuries BC.
And on the right, we have Egyptian anthropoid coffins
from that cemetery in Deir al-Balla,
from about the 14th to 13th centuries BC.
So we see great evidence of Egyptian presence
and the Levant go figure they ruled the place
for half of a millennium.
We can move on to the next slide here.
So Aten, one god and his son,
this is an intriguing, analogical parallel.
That means I don't necessarily think
that the Hebrews got the idea of monotheism
from ancient Egypt, but that the idea
is sort of prefigured by ancient Egyptians.
Pharaoh Akhenaten is the first recorded
monotheist in history, the first to declare
that there is only one god, the son, known as Aten.
The great hymn to Aten celebrates his creation
as mirrored by Psalm 104.
He says, oh, so God, beside whom there is none,
you made the earth as you wished, you alone.
All people's herds and flocks all upon earth
that walk on legs, all on high that fly on wings,
the lands of Koran and Kush, the land of Egypt,
you set every man in his place.
Now, while the idea of monotheism in particular
may not have been borrowed by ancient Israelites,
some of the literature that expressed that
has such striking resonances like here in the Psalms
that there may be some genetic influence there.
Akhenaten was the intermediary between man and God,
the son of mighty Aten, who had exclusive divine
foreknowledge of the father.
Aten, you are in my heart, and there is none
who knows you except your son.
Compare this to Matthew 11, 27, no one knows
the son except the father, and no one knows
the father except the son.
So a very intriguing parallel there,
even if it only might be an analogical one,
that is something of coincidental,
similar kinds of expressions that we simply find
in the ancient Mediterranean world
between both ancient Egyptians and ancient Hebrews.
We can move on to the next slide.
The Egyptian Moses, the third century BCE Egyptian priest
Lanitho, as relayed by Josephus,
tells the story of Osarseph, a man who led
an outcast colony of lepers against the reigning pharaoh.
Osarseph espoused monotheism, rejecting Egyptian polytheism
and later changed his name to Moses, meaning child of.
This was typically an Egyptian designation
for the son of a god, so Ramos would mean son of Ra,
or Kutmos would mean son of Thoth.
So taking the name Moses was tantamount
to dismissing the traditional gods of Egypt
and preferring to be known as the child
of a single unutterable god.
Osarseph and his rebels, including a Semitic group
known as the Hixos, were eventually driven out of Egypt
by pharaoh An-Minhotet.
Scholars have suggested that some elements
of the story are a legendary reflection
of the religious reforms of Akhenaten,
whose monotheism was undone by success
of Egyptian rulers following his death.
So interesting, many secular scholars
understand the story of Moses from the Exodus
to be largely legendary in orientation
and there may be some admixture here in the Exodus tale
from what was going on in terms of both history
and legend in ancient Egypt.
We can move on to the next slide.
The Egyptian Ark of the Covenant.
The best non-Israelite parallel to the Ark of the Covenant
comes not from Mesopotamia or Arabia, but from Egypt.
The sacred bark was a ritual object deeply embedded
in the Egyptian ritual and mythological landscapes.
It was carried aloft in processions
or pulled in a sledge or a wagon.
Its purpose was to transport a god or a mummy
and sometimes to dispense oracles.
The Israelite conception of the Ark
probably originated under Egyptian influence
in the Late Bronze Age.
That's from Scott B. Nagel,
the Egyptian origin of the Ark of the Covenant.
So here we probably do indeed have some kind of genetic
derivation or influence of concepts
from ancient Egypt to among the ancient Israelites.
Indeed, if you look at that photo on the right,
that is essentially the Egyptian equivalent of the Ark.
They're carrying this aloft as the Israelites
carried the Ark of the Covenant.
We can move on to the next slide.
Egyptian Circumcision.
The world's oldest account of circumcision
is an image in an Egyptian tomb.
Mummified remains exhumed elsewhere in Egypt
predating this image have been subjected
to X-ray scans, computerized tomography,
and carbon dating.
Some of these ancient corpses reveal indications
of circumcision performed perhaps as early as 4000 BC.
The Egyptians advanced understanding of the human body
like their architectural prowess and military conquests,
dazzled contemporaries and later generations alike.
The simple fact that Egyptians practiced circumcision
invested the procedure with exceptional prestige
in the ancient world.
If the Egyptians excised the foreskin,
many people reasoned their motives
must have been rooted in wisdom.
Within the magical religious framework of Egyptian science
and medicine, circumcision apparently was a ritual
marking the passage from youth to manhood.
The transition was profound
beyond the physical alteration of anatomy.
The ritual entailed admittance into divine mysteries,
secrets revealed only to the initiated.
The content of these mysteries remains elusive,
though they must have involved myths, prayers,
and incantations central to Egyptian religion.
The Egyptian Book of the Dead, for example,
tells of the sun god Raul performing a self-circumcision
whose blood created two minor guarded deities.
So the act of circumcision itself
long predated by ancient Egyptians,
and it's certainly possible that Israelites inherited
this idea from ancient Egypt
because of its profound meaning
and widespread practice in ancient Egypt,
though it could simply be just an idea
that was prefigured by ancient Egyptians.
Nevertheless, absolutely fascinating.
We can, of course, move on to the next slide.
And am I still in the show?
Derek, are you there?
We can move on to the next slide.
I did, and I'm muted, so there must be a delay on your end.
Oh, okay, okay.
Well, I'm gonna mute again.
I won't be able to talk to you,
so I'm gonna just keep up the PowerPoint
and then continue wandering demons
in the plagues of Sethmet.
Let me mute.
Wandering demons and the plague.
Okay, Derek is raptured, and he'll be right back.
What's up, everybody in the chat?
I hope you're loving this.
This is always good, and we'll have Q and A at the end.
So I'm muting because I don't wanna interrupt Derek
and bear with me here.
I've not done many PowerPoints myself,
so anyway, hit the like button.
Derek's back, all right, Derek.
That might happen here and there during our show,
but I'm gonna go ahead.
I'm gonna stay unmuted, and I just won't talk
unless I need to.
Let's continue.
Wandering demons and the plagues of Sethmet.
In ancient Egypt, the Shamiah,
wandering demons, that is, caused possession,
mental illness, death, and plague,
punishing humans by order of the gods,
much like Satan, who roams throughout the earth
and afflicts Job as God wills.
The lioness goddess, Sethmet,
struck Egypt with misfortune, pestilence,
and plague by her seven deadly arrows,
akin to the plagues visited by God in Exodus
and the seven deadly plagues of Revelation.
See, I refrain once and upon all the gods of Egypt,
I will execute my judgment.
If what appears to be happening is that the Israelites
are using the plagues of Sethmet,
which they must be familiar as a polemic
against their enemy, Egypt.
This was something that was common
in the ancient Mediterranean world,
which you would take up the ideas or concepts of your enemy
and use them as a polemic against your enemy.
So there's probably some influence here.
We can move on to the next slide.
The Egyptian love poetry.
The biblical song of songs closely corresponds
to other ancient Near Eastern literature,
especially Egyptian love poems.
All use brother and sister as terms of endearment.
All are rife with various fragrance,
herbs, and spices, milk, and honey.
As the Egyptian prefers her lover more than beer,
the woman of the song declares her lover
is more delightful than wine.
Both the Egyptian and biblical women
urge for their lovers to appear like a horse
dashing to battle or a young stag.
Finally, all such literature features the woman's longing
for her lover after he goes missing,
comparable to the ancient myths
whereby Isis longed for Osiris, Anath,
Brabelle, and Ishtar for Tammuz.
So there are a number of parallels
between this ancient Egyptian love poetry
and that which we find in the love poetry
and wisdom literature in the Bible.
And more than likely, I mean, with this many coincidences,
there probably is some influence here as well.
We can go ahead and move on to the next slide.
Where here we're gonna talk about ancient Egypt's impact
upon the Greco-Roman world at large,
upon the Mediterranean world at large.
Despite the greater antiquity of Egyptian civilization,
when we refer to Egyptian and Greco-Roman cultures,
we are generally referring to cultures that were contiguous.
And the profound impact that Egyptian ideas had
upon the Greco-Roman world cannot be denied.
In key respects, Egyptian views of the afterlife
were shadowed Greco-Roman, Jewish,
and early Christian conceptions,
particularly in terms of the motif of post-mortem ascent.
Although the channels of transmission
have been lost in antiquity,
the motif may still be sketched clearly enough
in both cultures to suggest that Egypt
was an important source for its expression.
It is worthy of mention that the Greeks themselves
accepted the derivation of many elements
of their cults from the Egyptians.
Herodotus, for example, wrote that the names of the gods
came to Hellas, that was Greece, from barbarians,
and I myself concluded that they derived
specifically from Egypt.
Indeed, Herodotus goes on to maintain
that many of the central religious observances of the Greeks
were also derived from Egypt,
writing that these customs have been adopted
by the Hellenes from the Egyptians.
So there's no denying that Greco-Romans drew
upon ancient religion, culture, and concepts,
and what Gonzales is saying here
is that the idea of post-mortem ascent,
which we see very frequently in these apotheosis myths
in the Greco-Roman world,
that that may be, either in whole or in part,
indebted to ancient Egyptian conceptions of the same.
Quite fascinating.
We'll move on to the next slide here,
and this is where Herodotus, who's known to us
as the father of history from about the 5th century BC,
remarks on this lake it is that the Egyptians
represent by night his sufferings,
whose name I refrain from mentioning,
and this representation they call their mysteries.
I know well the whole course of the proceedings
and these ceremonies, but they shall not pass my lips.
Clearly, just talking about Osiris here,
the Osirian mysteries in ancient Egypt,
which had a long pedigree going back
from the 3rd millennium BC, as far as we know,
from the ancient Egyptian pyramids,
all the way up to the common era,
lasting into the 4th century CE.
And as scholars have noted,
granted religious movements and cults
do evolve and change over time.
The central ideas in the Egyptian cult of Osiris
pretty well remained intact and consistent over millennia.
So that is, we see that ancient Greeks
are familiar with the religion, the cult of Osiris,
as early as the 5th century BC.
Moving on to the next slide here.
Here what we see on the far left
is a Roman era funerary Stella,
in which Anibis leads the deceased to Osiris.
This is from anywhere from the 1st century BC
to the 4th century CE.
So this is a Roman Egyptian syncretism
that we're seeing here.
It's in the style of Roman art,
and yet it depicts Anibis and the deceased
coming to the god Osiris,
the god of the afterlife resurrection and rebirth.
In the central image here,
it's a Roman Egyptian funeral shroud,
depicting the deceased between Anibis and Osiris.
That's from about the 2nd century CE.
So this is more Roman Egyptian syncretism
that we're seeing here.
And then on the far right,
this is the Nile Mosaic of Palestrina.
It's a Roman depiction of Egyptian funeral processions
from about the 1st century BC.
So we're seeing a lot of that mixture
between the Greco-Roman world
and these ancient Egyptian religious themes,
and particularly the cult of Osiris.
We can move on to the next slide.
And this is another example of Greco-Egyptian syncretism
or association.
The photo is from a rock tomb of Roman Alexandria,
in Egypt, of course.
The upper register depicts the resurrected Osiris
of Egyptian myth.
The lower register depicts the return of Persephone
from the realm of the dead per Creek myth.
So they're clearly equating these two gods
who had conquered death in some form.
Osiris was also syncretized and identified
with the resurrected Dionysus,
as we know from Plutarchs on Isis and Osiris
and Philodemuses on Piety,
where he describes Dionysus as having been torn to pieces
but reassembled and brought to life again by the gods.
Clearly analogous what happened to Osiris.
And then of course, with the Resinodonus at Biblos,
which was just north of Palestine,
read Lucians on the Syrian goddess
and then the scholarship of John Granger Cook and B. Soyez,
where they say that basically this is an Egyptianization
of the O'Donis cult by the second century
just north of Palestine,
where O'Donis is being essentially synced with Osiris,
said to have died and been fetched forth
and celebrated alive on the next day.
So again, there's a lot of inbreeding going on
between Egypt and the Greco-Roman world.
You can go on to the next image here.
These are more examples of Greco-Egyptian syncretism
on the left.
These depict the risen Osiris in Ptolemaic Roman Egypt,
about second to third centuries BC.
So the image on the left is very much a Romanized
Egyptian depiction of Osiris being bodily raised
from his funeral beer.
And then on the right,
graphic illustration of Osiris bodily rising at an angle.
And this is from the Ptolemaic Roman temple of Dendera,
again, about second to third century BC.
So nearing the common era here and once again,
more fine examples of Greco-Roman and Egyptian syncretism
where they are quite familiar with the story
of the death and resurrection of Osiris.
Next screen.
This is more of a side note here,
just to know that Egyptian resurrection
was a bodily affair.
Isis hovers over a complete body.
Finally, and most important,
she speaks the proper words and Osiris resurrects.
He retains the same body he inhabited while alive.
That's from Egyptologist Bob Breyer.
The belief that the body lives on after death
is one of the most salient features
of Egyptian conceptions of the hereafter.
That's Egyptologist Eric Harlan.
The resurrection in which the Egyptians believed
was a bodily resurrection involving a physical entity
which had been justified,
that is examined and declared to be free of sin.
That's Egyptologist Mark J. Smith.
And finally, resurrection is a proper term for this idea
because the dead king is constantly summoned to rise.
Raise yourself is the typical address to the deceased
and it means not only to get up, but to ascend to heaven.
That's from Egyptologist Jan Osman.
So that's what we're talking about as Elisor González
had pointed out earlier that Egypt may well be the source
of these Greco-Roman apotheosis myths
in which they ascend bodily to heaven.
That's just what Jan Osman is saying here,
is that's what's happening with many ancient Egyptians.
The idea is that they not only get up physically,
but they ascend into the sky.
This is all prefigured by ancient Egypt
and that it was indeed bodily.
We can move on to the next slide.
Osiris Antonus.
Antonus was the lover of the Roman emperor Hadrian
who was deified after his death
by being identified with none other than Osiris.
His cult spread throughout the empire
in the second century CE.
The obelisk of Antonus and Rome endows him
with the title Osir Antonus, the reborn and everlasting.
So quite fascinating, we actually have an historical figure
who is syncretized with the god Osiris.
Goes to show you that that can happen,
that historical figures could be deified
in a manner consistent with figures
who had been completely mythical.
And here's Sir Antonus known as the reborn
and everlasting, which has some interesting,
almost Christian evocations here.
We can move on to, of course, the next slide.
The Osiris cult in Rome.
So this is Firmicus Maternis,
a church father of the fourth century.
And what it goes to show us is that this Osiris cult
is still going strong in the Greco-Roman world
on up through to the fourth century
until it was finally wiped out by Roman emperors
like Theodosius in favor of Christianity.
Firmicus Maternis says on a certain night,
the image is placed face up on a beer
and is lamented by many with divided mornings.
Then when they have satisfied themselves
with this imagined lamentation of light is brought in.
At that time, the throat of all who mourned
was anointed by the priests.
After this anointing, the priests whispered the following
and they slow muttering, rejoice initiate
since the God is redeemed for salvation
from suffering shall be ours.
Why do you encourage wretched men to rejoice?
Why do you urge deceived men to be glad?
What hope, what salvation do you promise to
that in sorrowful belief?
Why do you arouse them with a false promise?
Death is the sign of your God.
His life does not appear, neither has a divine oracle
proclaimed at any time his resurrection.
So Firmicus Maternis is unwittingly telling us
that there was a celebration of the resurrection of Osiris
still in fourth century Rome,
but he is of course disparaging it.
You bury an idol, you bewail the idol,
you carry an idol from the tomb
and when you have done this, you wretched one rejoice.
You redeem your own God,
you put together the members of stone,
you arrange the lifeless stone,
your God might repay you,
might give thanks to you, might repay you with similar gifts
and might desire for you to become his participants.
May you thus die as he dies and live as he lives.
Which as Clarence Forbes noted,
this is basically Firmicus Maternis
encapsulating the very concept of the ancient mysteries
where the participant dies as the God had died
and lives as the God had lived.
Thanks for giving us that information,
Firmicus Maternis, church father of the fourth century
and in his, the error of the pagan religions.
You can compare this by the way
to what Egyptologist Jan Ostman discusses
in Death and Salvation in Ancient Egypt,
concerning the Icarinephric Stella of the Middle Kingdom
in which they had these kinds of processions
and celebrations involving the death
and resurrection of Osiris.
This goes way back.
So what Firmicus Maternis is telling us about
here in the fourth century,
this has a much, much older pedigree
that certainly predates Christianity undoubtedly.
We can move on to the next slide.
Concerning Alexander the Great and Serapis,
Alexander the Great became known as the son of Zeus Amon,
a fusion of the supreme gods of Greece and Egypt.
Under the Ptolemies, Greek rulers of Alexandria,
the god Serapis was introduced,
a composite of Osiris and the office bull of Egypt
with major Greek divinities like Zeus, Helios, Dionysus,
Hades, and Asclepius.
Serapis was depicted as a bearded, robed figure,
much like Zeus.
His cult center was established in Alexandria, Egypt,
but spread throughout Rome and the Mediterranean.
A temple to the cult of Isis and Serapis
was located in Samaria during the second century BCE,
replaced by that of Cor, that's Persephone,
in the second century CE.
So this was being celebrated, the right smack dab
in the Holy Land, in Samaria,
from the second century BC onward for quite some time.
Hadrian says in his letter to Serviatus,
the worshipers of Serapis here are called Christians
and those who are devoted to the god Serapis,
I find, call themselves bishops of Christ.
It's not as though there would have been no differences
between the Saracus worshipers and early Christians,
but it appears to be the case that Hadrian
is noting some stark similarities,
which is why he appears to be saying this.
So undoubtedly some fascinating, again,
intermingling between Greco-Roman
and ancient Egyptian conceptions
within the sphere of religion and myth.
We can move on to the next slide here.
So here we're going to discuss
Egyptian imagery in the New Testament.
The Egyptian goddess Cyrus was bodily raised from death,
variously by Isis or Horus,
to become the foremost of the Westerners,
the first to be roused from the sleep of death,
just as Christ was the first fruits
of those who have fallen asleep, 1 Corinthians 1520.
May you arise, O King, protected and provided as a God,
equipped with a form of Osiris upon the throne
of the foremost of the Westerners.
It's from the Pyramid texts.
Justification against sin and death is prominent
in both salvation schemes wherein the risen
and justified one extends justification
to all those raised in their image,
whether that be Osiris or Christ.
This peppy is a clean one of Horus,
justified in what he did as one justified
in the official's enclosure in Heliopolis.
I have saved him as a justified one.
I have united for him his bones
and assembled for him his members from the book of dead.
And then of course from Romans in the New Testament,
he was delivered over to death for our sins
and he was raised to life for our justification.
So the notion of justification against sin,
against sin and death in association with a figure
who was thought to have died and been raised to new life,
certainly an intriguing and fascinating parallel
between the Osirian cult of ancient Egypt
that sifted its way to the Greco-Roman world
and that which we find in Christianity,
which of course we know emerged from that Greco-Roman world.
We can move on to the next slide.
Discussing the concept of being raised and justified,
this is from comparative religion scholar S.G.F. Brandon.
The ritual identification of the deceased with Osiris
is now extended to include his identification with Osiris
in terms of his vindication
by the divine tribunal of Heliopolis.
And so as Osiris had there been judged
and proclaimed maqueru or justified,
the dead devotee of Osiris vicariously assumed this title,
doubtless in the hope that as he participated
in the resurrection of Osiris,
so would he also share in his postmortem justification.
So the initiate in both cults is reborn as a God raised up
to a deified and exalted status
and emulation of the central deity,
whether Osiris or Christ.
From the Pyramid texts, there thou findest ray,
he takes thee by the hand
and leads thee into the regions of heaven
and sets thee upon the throne of Osiris
and from the New Testament, from Ephesians
and God raised us up with Christ
and seated us with him in the heavenly realms
in Christ Jesus.
So the imagery here, fascinatingly resembling one another,
the image of being raised again from death
and taken up into the heavens
and seated upon a throne in emulation of the deity
who had done the same.
In ancient Egypt, the ritual identification
with the death and resurrection of the God
occurred literally upon death,
but by the first century CE,
it appears to have been spiritually manifested
in the present also as in Christianity.
In other words, by the first century CE,
that the ritual assimilation with the God,
with Osiris and his death and resurrection
was that rebirth was made manifest already in this life
through the process of initiation.
The culmination of which would be one's rebirth
into new life or resurrection upon death.
We see this happening in the New Testament,
in Romans and 1 Corinthians as well.
So they appear to be, this idea appears to be emerging
roughly about the same time in both the Osirian cult
in the Greco-Roman world
and in Christianity around the first century.
Moving on to the next slide,
bread and beer of life, it so happens
that scented loaves of bread accompanied
the Socar figure in the Osirian mysteries
described at Dindara.
These loaves are baked in special molds
that mark them as representations
of Osiris's body parts
and they too are made of wheat flour
mixed with aromatic substances.
So we have the idea of consuming the God himself
in the form of bread.
Oh, Osiris, receive the water of the vase.
The bread is for your stomach.
The beer is for your throat.
The bread, the mead and the beer
for the interior of your abdomen.
The water is for you.
The bread is for you.
The beer is for you.
Receive the pure water of my hand.
I am your sister Isis.
This holds fresh water.
It is for you, Osiris, who rules in the West.
Take for yourself the water of renewal.
You live from it.
That's from the Chapel of Osiris
at Dindara.
Compare this to the Gospel of John.
I am the bread of life.
Whoever eats my flesh and drinks my blood
has eternal life.
And I will raise them up at the last day.
Whoever eats my flesh and drinks my blood
remains in me and I in them.
The one who feeds on me will live because of me.
This is the bread that came down from heaven.
Your ancestors ate manna and died,
but whoever feeds on this bread will live forever.
So powerful resemblance is in the notion
of consuming bread as a symbol of the God's actual body
so that they are endowed with life.
We can move on to the next slide.
Here we're discussing purification by water immersion.
From the Pyramidex, raise yourself, Pepe.
Receive these four washing jars of yours
and become purified from the Jackal Lake
and washed in nature and water from the Duot Lake.
You will be cleansed on top of your water lily
in the marsh of Reeds,
in the waters of the marsh of Reeds.
He is pure who was purified in the marsh of Reeds.
Ra is purified in the marsh of Reeds.
He is pure who was purified in the marsh of Reeds.
This Unus, King Unus, the Pharaoh,
is purified in the marsh of Reeds.
So this symbolizes the sun's night journey
which descends into the oceanic waters
and rises again into the sky, reborn and purified each day
just as the Christian initiate,
rises reborn and purified from water baptism.
So strikingly resemblance in terms of the imagery
and the conceptualism and symbolism
between what occurs in baptism early on
in the Christian cult
and what was conceived of an ancient Egypt.
Moving on to the next slide.
The poor in heaven and the rich in hell.
In the Egyptian tale of Seosiris,
a rich man is depicted as suffering great torment
in the afterlife while a poor man is rewarded
for his good deeds.
A striking analogy to Jesus' parable in the Gospel of Luke
where he contrasts the fate of Lazarus, a poor man,
with that of a rich man agonizing in flames
for his selfishness.
In both accounts, lavish clothing is emphasized
for the rich man in Luke
and for the posthumously rewarded poor man
in the tale of Seosiris.
Both accounts feature the agonizing thirst
of those in torment.
The rich man in Luke begs for a drop of water
while those in the tale of Seosiris have food and drink
just out of reach over their heads.
Bart Ehrman of all people discusses this
in heaven and hell, a history of the afterlife.
The name Lazarus is from the Hebrew El Azar,
possibly a cognate of the Canaanite High God El
and the Egyptian Azar,
which was how their pronunciation for Osiris.
This El Azar here would denote the God Osiris.
Presently, as it has long been in Hebrew,
means God has helped.
In Hebrew, we also get this,
we also get El from El Azar,
we also get the Hebrew El Ezir.
And incidentally, it is Lazarus of Bethany,
who was raised from the dead in John 11.
So it would be one thing if we were just looking
at possible etymological roots
between the names El and Azar for Osiris,
as we find that in the Hebrew El Ezir or El Azar.
It's another thing to see that within context,
we have this tale of Seosiris or Se Azar
that very much resembles what we find in the story in Luke,
in which it's Lazarus that is the poor man,
who's been rewarded.
So given the number of parallels, coincidences and such,
there's a good case, I think, to be made
for the etymological origins of Lazarus,
as we find them in the Bible,
stemming from El Azar, El Osiris.
We can move on to the next slide.
Concern for the poor is rewarded in the afterlife.
From the ancient Egyptian book of the dead,
I have given bread to the hungry,
water to the thirsty, clothes to the naked,
and a boat to him who was boatless.
From the gospel of Matthew, for I was hungry
and you gave me something to eat.
I was thirsty and you gave me something to drink.
I was a stranger and you invited me in.
I needed clothes and you clothed me.
I was sick and you look after me.
I was in prison and you came to visit me.
Both passages concern final judgment
on the fate of individuals,
wherein they will pass on to internal life
or condemnation based on moral behavior.
So of course, it's no big deal to see a coincidence
between injunctions of feeding the poor and the sick,
providing food to the hungry.
But when you understand that both of these passages
are in the context of how you are being judged
and whether or not you will pass on to internal life,
then we see quite a striking analogy or parallel here
between what's going on in ancient Egypt
and what's going on in the New Testament.
Moving on to the next slide.
The final judgment.
Osiris, like Christ, plays the dual role
of both savior and judge.
The deceased stood trial before the throne of Osiris
and a tribunal of 42 judges.
Their hearts were weighed on a scale,
balanced against the feather of mat,
that's truth and right living,
and the scribal God Thoth recorded the results.
Compare this to Revelation 20,
where you have this whole scene of appearing in judgment
before the one who was enthroned and many other judges
with their names being written in the book of life,
comparable to Thoth,
recording the results in the scribal books.
If their hearts were found too heavy with sin,
they were devoured by the crocodile-headed creature Ammit
and their bodies cast into an unquenchable lake of fire.
And there we go, I just lost the presentation.
So Derek, that's an issue on my end with my, what's that?
I can read it, and you can't see the screen,
or you lost it on your end.
I lost it on my end,
where I'm not gonna be able to read it for just a hot second.
I'll read it on my computer, on my PC.
Yeah, if you wanna read it, go right ahead.
So I'll start over, if their hearts were found too heavy
with sin, they were devoured by the crocodile-headed
creature Ammit and their bodies cast into an unquenchable
lake of fire, where they suffered a second
and final death, Revelation 20, 12 to 15.
The damned were hacked to pieces and tortured
by their fiery demons before ultimately being annihilated.
The saved were permitted to off-ru,
or the filled of reeds where Osiris dwelt.
Derek Bennett dying and rising gods,
varieties of Jesus' mythicism, 54.
Yeah, so there are a host of sources of academic work
that you can consult to see, to verify all of this.
And I figured instead of just sticking all of those
on one slide, I'd just direct you to my work
in the varieties of Jesus' mythicism,
where in one of the footnotes,
I include every single one of these sources,
verifying that this was what was believed in ancient Egypt.
So we see this fascinating parallels between
the sort of ancient Egyptian proto-eschatology,
so to speak, and what we find in Revelation,
where they are judged, those who pass muster
are rewarded by going into the ancient Egyptian equivalent
of heaven, that's Aru, or the filled of reeds.
Those who are found guilty are, of course,
their heart is devoured by the creature Ammit.
Their bodies are cast into a lake of fire and annihilated,
where they suffer essentially what was known
in ancient Egypt as the second death,
the same concept we find in Revelation.
So I mean, the striking resonances here,
it's almost too much to deny that there's not some kind
of influence via cultural diffusion, via Hellenism.
So you can, of course, move on to the next slide.
Meanwhile, I'm gonna see if I can pull open
the slide again on my end.
And while you do that, everybody in the chat,
hit a one if you're learning something
and you're enjoying what we're doing here.
I wanna see some ones in the chat, two if you're not.
I'd like to see everybody in the chat chime in.
Let us know.
I'm curious to see what you're thinking,
because I can't see from where I'm at,
like buttons, be impressed, things like that.
So I wanna hear from you.
Let me know.
And of course, get your Q and A's ready,
because once we wrap this up,
I'm looking forward to the super chats
and we'll get into the questions deep with Derek.
So please help out, of course, ask your question.
You can super chat them and we'll get to them.
I seriously appreciate this.
After this, we will be on Gnostic Informant.
Neil is sick with COVID and he is just dying sick right now.
So he had to call his bros and we're gonna step in for him
and help do some content over there as well.
So you're gonna have double D all night.
Can you handle that?
Double?
That sounded pretty good.
D.
Yeah.
I don't get it.
I don't get it.
What's the joke?
I don't get it.
I don't know.
I don't know.
You know.
I see a lot of ones.
I'm giving a shout out.
Right over my head.
I don't get it.
I don't get it.
Over my head.
Jack was Melody, Keri, Kevin, Matthew.
I think George or Jorge, forgive me.
Mojo in the house, non-believer, soul, decade, CT, Tony,
no name, polymathing.
Mike, man, bear pig, Matt, Darryl, psychological,
shackle breakers, Bill, necktunes, Matthew,
dude, stellar, Don.
Everybody hit the like, hit the one button.
Let me know you're loving it.
We're gonna keep on going, baby.
Do you have it up there?
I do.
And I just wanna say, it's never been determined
whether man bear pig is half man bear and half pig,
or whether he's half bear, half pig, and half man.
We still don't know, but I'm super duper serial about this.
And one day we'll get down to the bottom of it, by God.
We might find some easier iconography.
The final judgment continued.
This is just an excerpt from Revelation
so that you can see the clear and evocative resonances here.
Then I saw a great white throne
and him who was seated on it, the earth and the heavens
fled from his presence and there was no place for them.
And I saw the dead, great and small,
standing before the throne and books were open.
Another book was open, which is the book of life.
The dead were judged according to what they had done
as recorded in the books.
The sea gave up the dead that were in it
and death and Hades gave up the dead
that were in them and each person was judged
according to what they had done.
Then death and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire.
The lake of fire is the second death.
Anyone whose name was not found, written in the book of life
was thrown into the lake of fire.
Now, there is an important distinction to make here
in that in ancient Egypt,
this was sort of an individualized experience
that happened for each individual person upon death
versus in Judeo-Christianity.
It is a collective eschatological event
where everyone is judged all at once at the same time.
So there are those distinctions to make
and they are important.
And I think the reason why is because Judaism early on
very much innovated on the idea of linear historical time.
Not to say that everything you find in the Old Testament
per se is actually historical,
but what they did was they produced this idea
of linear rather than cyclical time.
So a lot of what we see in Judeo-Christianity
may well be a sort of eschatologizing
or making linear ideas and concepts
that had previously been either individualized or cyclical.
So yeah, the distinctions are important to note,
but I wouldn't go so far as to say
that those distinctions mean that there is not a case
to be made for some kind of syncretism or influence
because that's exactly what you do in syncretism
is you adopt and adapt ideas and concepts
to suit your own cultural framework.
We can, of course, move on to the next slide.
I said that really smart, didn't I?
Praise me.
Images of judgment and health.
So these are actual images from ancient Egypt.
There on the left is Anibus,
who is weighing the heart against the feather of mat
on the scales.
And to the right, you've got Thoth recording the results
and the crocodile creature, Amit,
standing ready to gobble up their hearts
if they're found too heavy with scent.
Top right, this is a poor tormented figure in ancient Egypt.
He is red-hot being tortured in the afterlife.
And then, of course, on the bottom right corner,
this was the iconography of the ancient Egyptian lake of fire
guarded by these four jackal creatures
where the body would be tossed and annihilated
very much like in the book of Revelation.
We can move on to the next slide.
I call this the Egyptian proto-apocalypse.
So this is from the pyramid texts.
And what it's describing here,
it's not necessarily from an Egyptian apocalypse per se,
it's just that the language is very evocative
of apocalyptic conceptions.
The sky is overcast, the stars are darkened,
the celestial expanses quiver,
the bones of the earth gods tremble,
the planets are still,
for they have seen the king appearing in power.
That's from the pyramid texts,
from trying to remember whose interpretation
or translation of Raimondel Faulkner's translation
of the ancient Egyptian pyramid texts.
And then compare this to Mark.
But in those days,
following that distress, the sun will be darkened
and the moon will not give its light,
the stars will fall from the sky
and the heavenly bodies will be shaken.
At that time, people will see the son of man
coming in clouds with great power and glory.
Did one directly influence the other?
Who knows?
But it's, again, just striking resemblances
in terms of the idea of these celestial portents
and events, destruction and chaos
and great cosmic change associated
with a divinity who appears in great glory and power.
We can move on to the next slide.
More on the Egyptian proto-apocalypse.
This is from Egyptologist James P. Allen.
Few Egyptian texts deal with the end of time.
Those that do, however, envisage it
as a cataclysmic destruction
followed by a return to the state of the universe
as it was before creation.
In spell 175 of the book of the dead,
the creator God Atom describes how after millions
of millions of years,
I will destroy all that I have made.
The world will return to new, the limitless waters
like its original state.
Following the apocalypse,
only two cosmic forces will remain.
I and Osiris will be the remainder.
Then I will come to sit with him in one place.
According to Egyptian cosmology,
Atom was the original source
of all the world's elements and forces.
That is a certain kind of eternity.
While Osiris embodied the principle of daily rebirth.
There's another form of ancient Egyptian eternity.
The vision of their joint survival
after the end of the world thus carries with it
the promise of a new creation
at the beginning of a new eternity.
So, fascinating sort of prefigurization
in ancient Egypt of this kind of apocalyptic
or eschatological imagery.
Notice it returns to the primordial waters,
such was the state of affairs in Genesis
where it begins with the primordial chaotic waters
and a whole new creation or rebirth.
Again, it's cyclical in ancient Egypt.
It's linear in Judeo-Christianity.
We can move on to the next slide.
The legacy of Alexandria Egypt.
Alexandria Egypt was a multicultural
and intellectual powerhouse during the Hellenistic period
which rivaled even Athens.
There, the great library of Alexandria was built
hosting thousands upon thousands of scrolls
from around the Mediterranean world.
Astronomy, philosophy, mathematics, et cetera,
flourished in this ancient cosmopolitan city.
Alexandria's diversity was marked
not only by Greeks and Egyptians
but also many Jews of the period
who were invited to reside there
during the time of the Ptolemies.
The first Greek translation of the Hebrew Bible
was produced there known as the Septuagint.
The Hellenized Jew Philo-Judeus wrote various treatises
combining Greek and Hebrew ideas,
identifying the generative Greek Lagos
with the Jewish high priest.
Philo's Lagos was the first born son of God,
the very image of God and God's agent of creation.
He describes it as a being most perfect in all virtue
who was able to procure forgiveness of sins.
We find all of these ideas and concepts,
some of them almost verbatim in Paul's epistles.
So I do think Paul is probably applying
some phyallonic terms to his depiction of Jesus Christ.
So we see this influx of ideas
that are Greco-Judaic in orientation
in this multicultural hub in Alexandria, Egypt
that may have been a tributary into early Christianity.
We can move on to the next slide.
So this is a recap on the legacy of Egypt.
Egypt had a presence in Palestine from time immemorial
and vastly impacted the religious ideas
of the Greco-Roman world, especially via Hellenism.
Egyptian gods like Isis Osiris and his counterpart,
Serapis, were worshiped in the Levant
and throughout the Greco-Roman world
and syncretized with Greek gods like Dionysus
Donis and others.
Such ideas and practices as monotheism, circumcision,
water purification and resurrection
were prefigured by ancient Egyptians.
The story of Moses and the Ark of the Covenant
have ancient Egyptian roots
and Exodus makes polemical use of the plagues of Sekhmet.
Traces of ancient Egyptian thought
are found in the Psalms and Hebrew love poetry
and in the Satan as a wandering supernatural figure
who afflicts mankind as the gods will.
The story of Christ is prefigured by the resurrection
and attendant salvation schema of Osiris
including salvation, justification,
ritual identification with the risen God
and exultation to the heavens.
The notion of sacred bread and fermented drink
as life-giving substances
and even as representations of the God's body
are paralleled by ancient Egyptian tradition.
There are vivid parallels concerning the Luke
and story of Lazarus and the rich man
and of injunctions to help the poor with basic necessities
like food, drink and clothing within the context
of post-mortem judgment.
And final judgment of those raised to new life after death
including the notion of a second death and punishment
in a lake of fire and of a heavenly destination
for those deemed righteous and worthy
is long prefigured by ancient Egyptian religiosity
as is the destruction and renewal of the world.
That's a whole lot of coinkydink going on there.
The legacy of Egypt in the next slide.
So just a few remarks from actual Egyptologists
not withstanding its superficial rejection
of everything pagan, early Christianity was deeply indebted
to ancient Egypt, in particular,
the lively picture of the ancient Egyptian afterlife
left traces in Christian texts, thus among the cops.
And later in Islam, we encounter a fiery hell
quite like that of the Egyptians
from Egyptologists, Eric Hornin.
Salvation and eternal life are Christian concepts
and we might think that the Egyptian myth
can all too easily be viewed
through the lens of Christian tradition.
On the contrary, in my opinion,
Christian myth is itself thoroughly stamped
by Egyptian tradition, by the myth of Isis and Osiris
which from the very beginning had to do
with salvation and eternal life
from Egyptologist, Jan Osmond.
As I've said, it would be one thing
if we just found a few parallels here and there
between ancient Egyptian myth and religion
and what we find in Judeo-Christianity
but the sheer number of them,
the number of resemblances that we find
and some of these, there's almost gotta be
some kind of influence even if only by cultural diffusion
which of course it would have to have been cultural diffusion.
No one's saying that Paul and early Christians
traveled to Egypt and started plagiarizing
the pyramid tax, not at all.
But we do see that there was an influx of these ideas
into the wider Mediterranean world among Greeks and Romans.
Why not Jews as well?
It'd be special pleading to say that there wasn't
and go figure via this kind of cultural diffusion
and syncretism.
You have a lot of these ancient Egyptian ideas
being adopted and adapted into Judeo-Christianity.
Last slide.
I'd simply end by noting that Christianity is as Egyptian
as it is Greco-Roman, Jewish or otherwise.
The majestic world of the Nile,
the kingdom of intrigue and mystery and mystique
that put eternal life on the map
finds its final and ultimate expression
in the cultural collage that we know as Christianity.
Say, Fini, we can move on to the super chats.
Wow, really, really fun presentation, Derek.
And last time we tried this, we stumbled,
we weren't able to get through.
Did you enjoy that?
Elf on a shelf said great presentation
and even claps for you
if he can clap.
Yay.
Elf on a shelf.
Yeah, right.
I hope the chat really enjoyed that
and people are ready to ask some questions.
I have one thing that I just wanna say
during the presentation, I started to chuckle
when you got to the lake of fire
or the idea of this eternal, conscious burning
in this place and stuff.
And it made me laugh because there's four creatures.
I really wanted my mom to hear this,
not to be like, dude, I'm not interested.
It's really, to me, it makes me giggle,
to see the evolution of the mythology
and to go, they got four animal-type creatures
on each corner of this bath of water
that they're saying is like a lake-type water.
Oh, man, there's so much.
And it just made me kind of chuckle like, wow,
just to see how this narrative, how this idea
has been around for a while.
And why would we think that there's,
I mean, why would we think ours is true?
There's, I do think their version of this is true.
I mean, like, where do you go?
I mean, where do you go with this?
It's a lot of fun.
Already got a super chat here.
I really appreciate that.
Soul Rebel AZ, any Egyptian parallels
to Passover kept in Egypt, or in Exodus, sorry.
Of that, I'm not aware.
You gotta realize the amount of tax
that we still have lasting down the ages
from ancient Egypt, our legion.
And there's a great deal of scholarship on this.
I've read so much over the years
that some things have stuck and other things haven't.
But I almost seem to vaguely recall
that there might have been a practice
paralleling that among ancient Egyptians as well.
I'd have to double check.
And if anyone else knows, feel free to share
because that would absolutely be
another interesting one as well.
I'm sure there's things you didn't touch on, right?
That were like, you went in for the big stuff.
Stuff that was obvious, like a ceremonial meal
where if you eat it, you'll have eternal life,
or what I thought was really interesting
that you're in the place of the figure,
like Christ in me, and he's a representative of you.
That was actually what got brought up
on the last show between you and Camille.
And Camille was saying, well, what makes Christianity unique
was this whole idea of like,
well, I know the eschatology thing, that's a side note,
but was like this idea of the identification
with the cult member and the figure itself.
And it was like, not really if you look at
what you're describing here with the Osiris thing.
Yes, there are differences.
Like every myth has a difference, but...
Yeah, Camille was pressing the point
that the notion of a vicarious atonement,
Christ's death on the cross, dying for sin,
that that is unique to Christianity
as opposed to what you find in these other dying,
rising God cults, whether Osiris or whomever.
And he's right about that.
That is of course, because Christianity is indebted
to Judaism as anything else, but not more so.
So of course, you're going to find Jewish elements
within the syncretistic mix that is Christianity
that you don't find in these other cults.
You're also going to find things in Christianity
that you just don't find in Judaism,
because they don't appear to have come from Judaism,
but Christianity is a Greco-Judaic hybrid
among its many other tributaries.
So there's some stuff that does appear to have been
adopted and adapted from pagan religious motifs
or concepts or ideas, if you want to call them that,
that make Christianity unique precisely
because it is a syncretistic mix,
a hybrid of various religious ideas.
Thank you, appreciate that.
Festering boils.
Why the Egyptians circumcise?
Yeah, so that's a good question as to why,
why did they begin that practice to begin with?
Like what was the actual medical physiological
or anatomical practicality of that?
And I don't know.
I would assume probably for the same reasons
that people still get circumcised today.
What's interesting though is the kind of profound meaning
that it held for them.
Like it was basically, it was a right of admission
so to speak, entry into what you could call
a new covenant as it is in Judaism.
So that I think is the key parallel here.
But yes, as to the practical matter,
I don't know if I were a doctor, I'd love to tell you.
I imagine, and I'm gonna take a jab,
I don't know either, I'm just taking a jab here.
Being they had obelisk and they were very fertility-like
and there was the constant nylon, cyclical fertility death
and resurrection ideas within their mythology.
If you take the phallus, I'm gonna use the term
to try and keep YouTube off my back.
You're looking at what they thought was what made the baby.
I mean, there's this like ancient medical concept
where they're like, the man is the one who makes the child.
So it's not the woman, it's the man, of course.
But you kind of, I wonder if there's something
to the organ and exposing it and kind of hitting manhood
and this idea of that playing some role.
I mean, you could look at it practically
because I have three boys and they all,
we circumcised them.
I was at the time, of course, I was a Christian,
but there's also practical sense
in which you imagine rolling back the foreskin
and our middle son, they didn't circumcise him properly
when he was born.
And we ran into a lot of situations
where cleaning there is very difficult.
You have to roll it back and you have to try.
So you kind of wonder, did it suit practical reasons?
I feel like an idiot with Alpha.
Come on, man.
Don't make me look so dumb right now in front of everybody.
Alpha on a shelf, just he's whispering things about you.
You look precious.
Anyway, like I'm wondering, throwing it out there
like spaghetti on the wall, if any of it sticks,
I'm not saying I have any evidence to prove it.
I'm simply saying, I wonder.
I think that actually makes good sense
because we do know that in the ancient world,
phallic symbolism was big and a lot of this was bound up
in the symbolism of fertility.
They made a big deal of fertility,
whether in the human spear or the vegetable spear,
with the crops and so forth.
So yeah, I think you're definitely
on to something there for sure.
I asked this question, actually, of Francesca
when she was on the author of God and Anatomy.
She would know.
What she said, even like you in a way,
she's like, we're not really sure,
but she takes some jabs.
I can't remember what she said.
We said so many things.
I was melting in my garage.
It was so hot and trying to pump out that episode.
Fester and Boyles, thank you.
I hope those Boyles aren't festering so bad.
It's been years since you've been named that.
And I know that it's a tough thing that you're dealing with.
Thank you for the support.
Cosmic Sankofa, forgive me if I butcher that.
The Annunciation and the Birth of Hatshepsut.
Do you know about this?
Okay, this is one I don't know about,
and it's quite likely I've come across it over the years
because again, when I hear these things, they do have,
it's like there's something that lights up inside
that's like, I think I have come across this before,
but it's kind of vague rather than fresh in my memory.
So I can't recall at this moment much about that,
but that would be another interesting parallel
to throw into the mix.
Yeah, thank you so much for the support.
I really appreciate it.
I hope you've enjoyed this show today.
Hammond or Hemond, thank you for the super chat.
Circumcision is an aphrodisiac probably.
I don't know.
I don't know, man, because the organ,
I mean, they say it's like you're desensitizing the organ.
You're not like you're removing kind of the sensitivity
there in the process.
I don't know.
Maybe.
I don't know.
Don't know.
Thank you so much for that support.
Bradford Baldwin in the house, good to see you Bradford.
We got a connect on testing out the Collins show.
The Ugarit culture had influence on the Abrahamic religions.
They also had contact with Egypt and Greece.
Will you please discuss their connection and influence
and how it all blends together?
Yeah, sure.
I mean, many scholars, historians and archeologists
pretty well tell us that the Israelites
were simply indigenously Canaanite all along.
That's who they were.
What had happened was during the Bronze Age collapse.
So there was something of a collapse
among these major cosmopolitan cities.
And many of them took up farming and whatnot
in the foothills and came to re-identify themselves
as the Israelites.
But we know even from genetics
that modern Jews and Arabs are descended from Canaanites.
So we have scientific evidence for this.
So of course, of course, many ancient Israelites
were still worshiping Baal and Asherah.
And even the Hebrew God in the Old Testament retains
the name El or El Shaddai.
This was the same name for the High God of Canaan, El.
And of course we see like the characteristics
of Yahweh even in the Old Testament
are very much resemblances of Baal himself
as a storm God, a fertility God.
By the way, there are fertility connotations with Yahweh
in the Hebrew Bible.
Just read John Levinson's resurrection
and restoration of Israel.
So we see him riding on the wind as well
and having power over the sea and in conflict,
conflict, that's a new word, conflict
with the sea monsters and dragons and so forth.
Yahweh is more or less early on anyway,
just another Baal, so to speak.
And as they streamlined the pantheon,
they started to do away with Baal and Asherah and so forth
and simply merged Yahweh with the Canaanite High God El
to becoming Yahweh Elohim, one God.
So, and they're still fighting this
and the Hebrew Bible, these prophets are still,
they're still struggling with Israelites
who were doing the older, more traditional
thing one could say, but this model theism
or at least monolatry, worship of one God
as opposed to the others, is something of an advancement,
probably taking place anywhere from about
the eighth to sixth centuries BC.
So yeah, I mean, the Hebrew Bible is as Canaanite
as it is anything else, but it's an admixture
of all these cultures that had a presence
in the Levant from ancient times.
And this stuff lives on in Christianity.
We still, as scholar Philip Davies had said,
Jesus Christ in the New Testament is composed
of stock motifs from all over the ancient
Near Eastern and Mediterranean world.
So these ideas still persist on into the New Testament,
which is just absolutely fascinating.
Wow, yeah, so just so people understand,
and this is something I feel like we explain ourselves
when we don't have to, but it's important.
And it's not to Bradford, but to simply point out,
some people overdo things.
I mean, it's kind of our tendency to do,
we see something that looks like it
and therefore we want everything to fit that category.
Today's episode or presentation was to show
Egyptian origin or influence on the origins of the Bible
or even biblical concepts.
That's not to say, as if Egypt is the soul
and only primary influence, as if somehow
that's the, you stole it from us.
That's another problem when you talk to the academics,
stole it or plagiarism or this or that.
It's more cultural diffusion.
There is no copyright.
Like it's not like modern day in college
where it's like Derek's paper looks similar to mine.
One of you are copying each other
because you're not coming up with authentic work.
It in a sense becomes authentic
when you rewrite it for your own cult,
your own culture, your own people group, whatever.
Even if you are influenced or you're even,
a lot of times it seems the influence is a negative one.
Like Mesopotamia, it's highly influencing the Bible
and the biblical author is like trying to scape it.
You guys are pro-building this tower to God.
Are you kidding me?
That's wicked.
But if you go to the Mesopotamian,
that's actually wisdom and good
and like bright light from the gods.
Whereas the Bible's saying no, shepherds get away
from that civilization, focus on the desert,
listen to the voice and the wilderness, that kind of thing.
Don't go and build a tower.
It's really interesting stuff.
So I just figure it might be worth mentioning that, Derek,
just for our audience to understand
you're not out here going, everything comes from Egypt.
No.
No, no, not by a long shot, not by a long shot.
But yeah, the focus of this presentation
is on Egyptian influence on the Bible or in some cases,
simply analogies or where ancient Egyptians
prefigured these ideas.
Though I think on the whole, you do have some kind of,
as I've said, influence via cultural diffusion.
But no, I mean Judaism and Christianity
both are hybridic religions, which all of them are,
that's not unique to Judaism or Christianity either.
And so they are basically a cross-pollination of ideas
from all over the ancient Mediterranean world.
Thank you so much for that.
The mythic life.
Let me see, what's her name?
Let me summon her name.
Kristen Whitaker Hood, am I correct if this is your name?
Oh God, not Kristen Whitaker Hood, is she here?
She's watching this?
Yes, she's watching.
Oh God, her personality, I don't know if you've noticed,
her personality, it's rotten, she's a stinker,
it's a stinker of a personality.
Not funny, not cool, not witty, I hate, I hate, I hate,
I hate Kristen Whitaker Freakin Hood.
Yeah, but not the mythic life though.
You don't hate the mythic life, right?
No, the mythic life's all good, she's cool.
Just checking, just checking.
Happy solstice to our favorite Derrick's.
What's up with the parentheses always?
You guys, you do it too, don't you?
I think you, I've seen that multiple times.
Maybe it's just Kristen, I don't know, but thank you so much
for the super chat, Kristen, I really appreciate it.
I hope you're enjoying the chat.
Just making sure I didn't miss anybody
because I hate that when I get a message later
and someone goes, hey, you didn't answer my question
and I threw you a five or whatever, you know what I mean?
Like, I don't, that makes me have a hard time
going to sleep at night.
All right, looks like we caught up.
Derrick, I do want to ask you,
J.C. Smith was brought up earlier by one of the mods.
It was our friend Jason Sobeck and I'm gonna scroll up
and try to find what he said.
Sure.
And maybe there was, maybe, maybe at the end
you clarified something and you might be able
to like address that.
I'm looking here, forgive me.
All right, I'm gonna have to scroll through the live
that's on the YouTube side, scrolling up
and then I'll come back to you.
If you have any super chats, go ahead and drop them now
cause once we get through these, I'm gonna be dropping off
here and then we'll be going live again
on Nasdaq Informant here to help him
since he's like dying of COVID, literally.
Pretty much it was, and I want to give him his,
like specifically the wording,
oh man, won't let me go back any further.
Okay, won't let me go back on the YouTube side.
Let me see how far back I can go on this, on the,
yeah, I can, StreamYard lets me go all the way back.
Okay, now bear with me, forgive me.
This gives people time at least to get it up.
Okay, work on those.
Israel was never monotheistic, it was,
I'm interested in getting your response to this
because he was being critical,
I think of some of the things you were saying
and it's worth getting your addressing.
I hope he's still here.
I think he left.
Okay, the Greek and Romans did not have any interest
in engaging Egyptian rights, cult and lore
on its own terms.
They filtered everything through interpretatio gracia,
it was window dressing.
What are your thoughts about that?
I didn't quite catch that, can you bring that up again?
Yep, the Greeks and Romans did not have an interest
in engaging Egyptian rights, cult and lore
on its own terms.
They filtered everything through interpretatio gracia,
it was window dressing.
Yeah, so I mean, that's probably true to a degree.
Can I go a little further in saying what he says?
Just so you're aware of further context,
please remember J.C. Smith's axiom,
that comparison is never a matter of identity,
it requires differences as the grounds
of it being interesting, drudgery divine page 47,
we can't prove these links.
Okay.
Sorry, I won't interrupt you again.
So this is as M. David Litwa describes so eloquently,
it's always a matter of adopting and adapting,
you're taking it and you're refashioning it
to suit your own cultural needs and predisposition.
So yes, you are transforming it in the process,
but nevertheless, something of its original character
is retained, so it just seems like a non sequitur to me
to say that because they've taken this idea
and they've transformed it, that it no longer has anything
that is authentically Egyptian.
Just read, for example,
Jay Gwynn Griffiths, who was an Egyptologist
who discusses this in the ISIS book.
She talks about the Greco-Roman cult of ISIS and Osiris,
as we find it in Apolaus' second century account,
the Metamorphoses, and she does stress that yes,
much of this is authentically Egyptian,
even if it has been Hellenized.
Brooke W. R. Pearson points this out as well
in his baptism and initiation and the cult
of ISIS and Serapis, that once again,
what we're finding in the Greek Apolaus' account
from the second century Metamorphoses
is absolutely rooted in authentically ancient Egyptian ideas.
So I'm sorry, but that's just a non sequitur to say
that because it's been Hellenized,
it's no longer Egyptian.
It's simply Egyptian concepts that have been tailored
to suit the needs and ideas of a Greco-Roman audience.
Thank you so much.
And then on Jonathan Z. Smith,
did you want me to address that as well?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, please.
Jonathan Z. Smith made the important distinction
between an analogical comparison
and a genealogical comparison.
So an analogical comparison is simply a comparison
in which the one has not necessarily influenced the other
or drawn upon or borrowed the other,
but that they're just kind of,
they're two phoenixes of a feather, so to speak.
They're similar ideas that stem from ancient modes of thinking.
And there's a lot to be said for that in and of itself.
A genealogical comparison is one in which we can more or less
discern that there has been some kind of influence
or borrowing or derivation, so to speak.
So it is important to make that distinction.
What I say is that while we can never prove necessarily
a genealogical derivation of ideas,
I think that we can pretty well logically infer this
in some cases.
Notice again, the parallels between the tail of C. Osiris
and the Lucan account of Lazarus there.
I mean, there are multiple points of comparison.
The same with the Hebrew love poetry
and then all of this that we find
in the salvation schema between Osiris and Christ,
the notion of ritual identification with a God
who was under con death and resurrection,
the notion of justification in association
with these risen divinities
and how that is extended to the devotee.
I mean, there comes a point where the coincidences
and parallels that they mount up to such a degree
that it's just like it's more incredible to say
that there hasn't been some kind of influence
even if it was through cultural diffusion,
which more than likely was, it's more of a stretch
to say that there wasn't and that there was
so while Smith's distinction is important
and I actually make that distinction myself,
just because you can't prove genetic links
doesn't mean that you cannot logically infer
that that has indeed taken place.
And that's why, for instance,
Dennis R. McDonald's work is so important.
He does this very kind of thing as does Dr. Richard Miller
in Resurrection and Reception in Early Christianity.
Where we can more or less infer these kinds of kinds of...
What's the word for it?
Mimesis, so to speak, Mimesis
or the adoption, adaption of ideas
from one context into another.
Well put, I think you did a good job explaining that
and I hope everybody learned something from that.
Hammond, thank you again.
Happy birthday, Derek.
Is it your birthday?
No.
Not mine either.
But thank you so much.
But you know what, Hammond, every day is my birthday.
That's right, every day, remember,
he'll give you his address
and you can mail him a super chat.
Seriously though, thank you for the super chat.
I really appreciate it.
The mythic life.
Just checking you out in the chat here.
I'm glad everybody's having fun.
So that was good that you addressed that.
I think there are so many interesting things
that makes me wanna examine all over again.
Are there, you mentioned in your PowerPoint,
there's some sources we can go read, many of those sources.
Is there anyone that you would say is like a one-stop shop
specifically that really covers a lot of this stuff
or is it you need to go hunting in order to find it?
Yeah, I wouldn't say, I really wouldn't say
that there's any one scholar to read here.
You gotta do a whole lot of digging into various,
I will say that academia.edu is a fantastic resource
for academic articles that cover a lot of this stuff.
But here's what you can do, become a patron of mine.
Because I have these very presentations available
to where you can download them in PDF format
and then you can just go very conveniently digging through
and finding this stuff yourself.
I'm gonna actually post that in the chat.
Like how does yours, just while we're on this topic,
what, how much does it cost to join your Patreon?
Whatever you want to contribute,
however little or however much you feel is worth it to you.
I'm not going to set any limitations myself.
If you're only able to afford a dollar a month,
then give me a dollar a month.
That means more, that means a lot to me
because it all adds up.
If you can't afford more, then please do so
if you're able to.
But I really am counting on people to come through
and help support my work.
As you can see, I work very hard covering this stuff
and producing this content.
So, you know, however much or however little you want to give,
I'll be grateful for whatever you can contribute
to keep me on my feet so that I can keep doing this.
Yeah, and just so people know, I am a patron of yours.
So I ask because I-
And vice versa.
Yeah, yeah, that is true.
And we're busting our humps, kicking butt, taking names.
I seriously appreciate you and what you did today.
I'm shocked that you only got booted once.
That's quite impressive.
You have to admit Osiris or whoever's looking out
for you today, right?
Absolutely.
Yeah, I mean, he's the OG here.
Let's be real.
Right.
I love CS Lewis's idea and not in a good way
that these were all just sort of dim yearnings
of the real thing to come.
I mean, yeah, it's poetic and it's eloquent
and it's also just special pleading at bottom.
Sorry, CS Lewis.
It's like Robert Price said, I wonder what was ever,
I wonder what was in that ever present pipe of his.
Yeah, no, I think the same thing.
And I just look at it from more of a, if we're looking,
imagine people are going through the fossil record
and they're trying to find like the most pinnacle human
and humans are still developing and progressing
and evolving, right?
We're not, but then we like pick a certain time and go,
this is the best human model right here and all
of all humans without like seeing where this is going.
You know, it's like that.
I'm looking at this going, hmm, this is kind of a fossil
of ideas that we're looking in the past
and seeing how humans develop them.
Well, CS Lewis's argument is also historically ignorant.
A lot of the reason that you find many of these parallels
and similarities and so forth is because of the rampant
syncretism that was alive in the Hellenistic world
from which Christianity emerged.
So, you know, Lewis is completely ignoring
that major historical factor here.
He's doing apologetics, not history.
I'm curious.
What's that?
I'm curious to know if you think he knows what,
maybe not all that we're talking about today,
but like he knows enough that he's like, oh, crap.
So he has to explain this, the way that he's explaining it
in order to remain a Christian.
I think he was able to concede that the parallels were there,
but I don't think he understood why in many cases
that is the case.
So for all his brilliance, there's just a lot
that he had some blind spots.
And if you're approaching this in the manner of fideism,
where faith is your primary guide,
it's gonna cause you to have that problem.
And that's why apologists trip themselves up time
and time again, because they're using bad methodology.
They put the cart before the horse.
If anyone wanna say, oh, you're a mind reader,
my response is that I really need to be a mind reader
when it's that obviously transparent,
what's going on here.
And I won't accept silly two-coke-wee arguments
whereas, oh, well, you're doing the same thing.
You just assume a naturalistic or atheistic worldview first
and you go from there.
That's not really, that's not our methodology at all.
The objective is to make no assumptions,
look at the evidence, look at the facts,
use proper reasoning, whatever that is,
a Bayesian approach, however you wanna approach it,
and you make your conclusions after that.
Doesn't mean we don't have our suspicions,
you know what I mean, from the get-go
and for good justified reasons.
But nevertheless, you bracket that stuff,
you look at the evidence, you look at the arguments,
and then you come to a conclusion.
That's how I operate.
That's how I assume many others operate
when they're doing actual critical historical research.
And that is not what I think the vast majority
of Christian apologists are doing.
Derek, I can't tell you how much I appreciate your time.
Again, I hope to see somebody go show him some love.
I've been trying to get Derek in the spotlight
and I wanna see him do this full-time
cause I'd be quite impressed to know the production he would
if he was able to do this full-time.
So I'm hoping that we can get some people
who go support you.
Even if it's to hire for like private specific projects,
you might want like a research project to have Derek go do
cause he is all about diving deep.
Things like that, like he can use the income
and I'm saying, I wanna see him do this full-time.
And if we could see him do this full-time,
he won't have to work so hard on Backpage and OnlyFans
and all of those like websites that you work on, right?
Like you just, you wouldn't have to do that as much.
Yeah guys, it's, I'll tell you it's hard
because I work, I work a day job
in addition to doing all this.
So I really have to bust my hump,
invest a lot of time and squeeze in play time
wherever I possibly can, but I'm really busting my hump
and it would be a dream come true
if I could just dedicate all of my time,
all of my time to doing this stuff exclusively.
So I'm counting on people to,
and I do wanna say that I hugely appreciate
all those who are already supporting me.
So thank you so much to my current patrons.
You guys already make it easier at least
for me to do this stuff.
Those who have contributed in any way, shape or form,
even to my PayPal, you know, on a singular basis,
I hugely appreciate everything everyone's doing
and has done, please know that.
But the more the merrier, if I can get more and more people
to contribute to my Patreon or however they wanna support me
or you know, at the very least,
go subscribe to my channel, whatever you can do
to keep me going in the world to me.
So I pinned your YouTube at the top of the chat.
I hope to see some subscribers.
Let's see if we got any since this started.
So 5.16, it wasn't 5.15.
I don't know if that means you gained like,
I don't know, five or 10.
Let's subscribe to Derek.
I'd love to see you go support him.
He has quite a few videos on his channel.
At this point, when I first started watching your channel,
my favorite one was the origins of Yahweh.
You come out, just clap, thunder clap on Yahweh.
That was heavy.
I was like, dang, okay.
And then I'm like torn.
Jesus is dead.
I mean, like there's so many presentations
you've done on our channel.
I'd love to see people go and show you some love,
join the Patreon or Patreon,
however you wanna pronounce the term here,
help support him.
And to give you an idea of the kind of support,
you know, those who have support me, right?
And the pay, like the people who are paying
to get their questions asked and stuff, the super chats,
that helped me to help him come on.
Cause I pay you for your time.
And I wanna say that openly because,
dude, you get work and not doing this.
I wanna see you do this.
So it's a matter of let's get Derek on the roll.
You know, let's get you going, bro.
So anyway, I really do appreciate it.
Do you have any words you'd wanna say to our audience
before we let you go?
I think I've said it all,
except that I wanna reinforce a point that you made,
which is that if I could,
if I could do this full time
and not have to rely on a day job,
just imagine the amount of content and research
that I could produce.
Holy heck, it would really be something.
So come on guys, rally behind me if you can.
Rally behind Derek, of course, as well.
And let's see if we can't pull that off, baby.
Let's see if we can't.
And if you're interested in the mystery religion
perspective, a presentation will be on Nostica
for my hair after this as well.
And of course, Neil is supporting you as well
to make this show possible and he's sick.
So stepping in to help out there.
I really appreciate everybody.
Hit the like button, share this out there.
I know many of you really enjoyed this.
I enjoyed this and thank you again.
Never forget we are MythVision.
MythVision.
MythVision.
