Several people on the internet are standing firm that Luke Axe is historically reliable,
trustworthy information, and in fact, they go beyond just trying to argue that it's historically
reliable.
I mean, what are the implications, of course, with their worldview?
If Axe is historically reliable and one should take their word on it, you're not only getting
the very foundational story for Jesus and his disciples and his resurrection, but one
should believe in this so they could avoid the punishment of their consequences of sin.
This is kind of the notion of the Christian mythos, and in fact, I came out of that.
In this video today, I'm going to try something radically different than what I typically do.
I'm going to give you Richard Perbo's first chapter from the mystery of Axe unraveling
its story.
I'm going to read it, and I may make mistakes along the way so that I can at least just
be myself and try to give you and convey what he, as an expert who wrote the Harmonia Commentary
on Axe, along with Harold Attridge, back when he published it.
But he wrote his own book, kind of sifting the whole enterprise of Axe research to give
you his inside of what he's discovered about this book.
I'm doing this because several people who watch my YouTube videos probably don't read
the books, but this is a must read if anyone really wants to get Axe scholarship down and
understanding it from a critical perspective.
See, while the apologists have several of their own scholars that they might lend to
try and bring historical credibility to the claims that they have about the New Testament,
I also have a plethora of academics that we can name here at MythVision to allow you
to see why your confidence level shouldn't be so high.
If one wants to make the leap of faith, go for it.
But there's no way after researching with the scholars we've had on MythVision that one
can walk away and go, I'm absolutely certain and confident in knowing that these books
are conveying what actually happened and what we should all follow suit in believing.
So let us begin.
Some years ago, while sampling the wares of a used book emporium, I glanced at a recent
paperback of John Steinbeck's The Grapes of Wrath, this edition evidently directed
toward young readers, included an introduction explaining the background that really had
been a great depression in the 1930s exacerbated by the dust bowl that caused many families
to abandon ancestral farms and move west to seek their livelihoods.
The perceived need to supply this information was a bit of a shock.
Informing the public of the existence of the depression was for a member of the generation
whose parents' lives had been shaped and scarred by that era like announcing that the
sun had arisen yesterday.
Every person in works may be said to need no introduction, but the passage of time quickly
cancels that claim.
If appreciation of Shakespeare's 400-year-old plays requires some knowledge of the social
circumstances under which he wrote, for example, that women's roles were taken by boys, creating
a certain amusement when boys playing women dressed as boys, how much more is that knowledge
likely to be important for works that are five times 400 years old?
Yet Lengor, some might suggest rigamortis has overtaken the once lively discipline of
biblical introduction, as many who have sought to help students learn can testify seeking
to arouse interest in the standard journalistic questions, who, what, when, where, how and
why, is about as fruitful as an attempt to promote the minuet as an attractive form of
contemporary social dancing.
The reasons for this discipline in interest are too numerous.
Too numerous to explore here, and it must be said that if students often find this stuff
boring, the discipline itself has become rather still.
It is tempting to relegate introductory matter to an appendix out of fear that the beginning
with these basics will lead readers to set the book aside.
Those who write an introduction to a single biblical book must therefore pose an introductory
question to themselves.
Why?
One approach is to use the introduction to summarize one's views and then offer the balance
of the book as a justification for those opinions.
This is, despite several reasonable complaints, a quite legitimate procedure.
But a more artistic author will think that this is like a mystery writer telling both
the reader and the detective who done it.
On the first page and then devoting the remainder of the story to showing how the detective
reached the aforementioned conclusion.
An objection to attempts at artistry is that those seeking to unravel the Bible's mysteries
should not write one.
Another quite acceptable rationale for the introduction to alert the audience to the
author's presuppositions and biases so that concerned readers may correct for these.
An even more important goal is to make clear what questions the author is trying to answer
and what methods he or she will use.
Too many introductions leave these matters as enigmas for readers to resolve.
All of the foregoing is to say that the authors must decide which mysteries they will solve
on the opening pages and which they will leave outstanding.
What follows then is equivalent to information about who was killed, with what weapon or
medium and where the body was found.
I propose to begin by rounding up and interrogating the usual suspects after addressing the most
basic question.
Some answers.
What is the crime?
The author of Acts committed a nearly perfect crime.
Several study of Acts suffers from the book's success.
Luke as the author of both the Third Gospel, Luke and Acts, is conveniently designated,
told his story so well that all rival accounts vanished with but the faintest of traces.
Luke T. Johnson, no radical skeptic, puts it this way.
So successful was Luke that his narrative has become the etiological or foundational
myth of Gentile Christianity.
The same scholar also notes that it witnesses to Luke's literary skill that for two millennia,
people thought he told the story just the way it happened, indeed had to have happened.
The story of the church's beginnings, need not however, had been told at all.
It might also have been told very differently.
I fully agree and furthermore have no desire to depose the myth and replace it with another.
Such as Luke's, probably function more effectively when they are not confused with simple history.
Behind the last statement stands the recognition that science, which provides the dominant
model for our culture, sees truth first and foremost as that which can be verified by
empirical method.
Yet, the scientific model is in itself a sort of myth.
In any case, it requires belief.
The truth of a myth, like Luke's myth of a Christian origin, can be quite valid.
But it is of a different order from that of scientific truth.
Members of faith communities will either recognize the coexistence of different orders of truth
or develop bifurcated minds in which scientific and religious truths are maintained in separate
compartments that do not interact.
These are important matters that require a book on their own.
One object of the present enterprise is to enter the lavatory of the myth maker and learn
whether one may discover his secrets.
Such a project is, of course, an exercise in literary criticism, and such studies are
perfectly valid.
Literary studies constitute the dominant approach to the study of Luke and Acts today.
This permits scholars to dispense with questions of history and focus upon the story.
Readers should be aware that some who engage in literary analysis may, intentionally or
not, introduce covert defenses of the historical accuracy of Acts.
Literary study may seek to bypass historical problems, but it does not render them irrelevant.
This short book seeks to expose the problems of attempting to derive history from Acts.
As a narrative treating the first three decades of Christian church, Acts is unique.
Canonical Christian scripture includes four stories of Jesus, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and
John, and twenty-one works that are, or are called, letters, as well as another unique
text, the book of Revelation.
The four canonical gospels, which enclose teaching and astonishing deeds within a narrative
framework, give readers a sense of what a gospel is with regard to the canonical gospels.
One major contribution to 19th-century scholarship was the development of the critical study
of the historical sources that stood behind them.
The assumption was that the earliest source was the most historically sound.
John was viewed as the latest and historically least reliable gospel.
This judgment is no longer quite so self-evident.
The other three, Matthew, Mark, and Luke, are clearly related to one another.
The effort to determine which was the earliest of these synoptic gospels, so-called because
one can arrange them in parallel columns, dates to at least the fourth century, Augustine.
19th-century research established that Mark was the major narrative source of both.
Matthew and Luke, and thus the earliest.
Luke and Matthew shared another source, a written collection of sayings that became known
as Q. Research issued during the first two decades of the 20th century destroyed the
hypothesis that Mark provides an historically reliable account of Jesus' public life.
Although the gospels contain things that Jesus probably said in forms of stories that he
told, these texts do not allow the reconstruction of his life beyond a very broad outline, many
details of which do not derive from those texts.
Critical scholars are likely to posit, for example, that Jesus was probably born at Nazareth,
although both Matthew and Luke state that he was born in Bethlehem.
Such deductions from sources do not, to be sure, prove that those sources are historically
sound.
Similarly, data introduced from external sources to illuminated text cannot be used as evidence
about that text.
These two tips may seem superfluous, but scholarship on Acts includes many instances of this bad
procedure.
Take for example Acts 12-1-23, which reports a persecution led by King Herod, a large number
of critics equate this figure with a grip of the first from 41-44 CE, and utilize this
datum to assert the historical accuracy of Acts and to help determine its chronology.
Acts, however, knows but one king, Agrippa, and this gets explained in chapters 25-26,
whom historians designate Agrippa II.
Another powerful arrow in the quiver of those who defend the reliability of Acts is the
invocation of coincidences between the Luke reports and what also appears in the Jewish
historian Josephus.
This came a deduction if a witness can be corroborated on some points by other witnesses
that authority should also be accepted on matters that cannot be corroborated.
This principle may seem sound at first glimpse, but it is nearly worthless.
The fact that Ruth Harrison claims to have seen the victim, Ralph Jones, drinking coffee
in an outdoor cafe at 11 AM, and a waitress confirms her testimony does not support Mrs.
Harrison's contention that she did not shoot Mr. Jones at 4.30.
The case for coincidences has been exploded by the near certainty that Luke used Paul's
letters, and the very strong probability that he was familiar with some of Josephus's
works.
These observations intimate that much scholarship on Acts has lacked a critical rigor that
has long characterized Gospel study.
When Ernst Henschen's commentary on Acts 3 appeared in English translation, its skepticism
astonished a generation of students at liberal seminaries.
In the middle third of the 19th century, some German scholars led by Ferdinand Christian
Barr raised strong challenges to the early date in historical accuracy of Acts.
Their arguments were opposed by a generation of British and German interpreters including
Theodor Zahn, William M. Ramsey, Joseph B. Lightfoot, and Adolf V. Harnik.
By 1900, Acts appeared to have been vindicated.
With due consideration for some exaggerations and errors, as well as allowance for the limitation
of its sources, Acts had apparently ridden out the storm of scathing criticism.
The major but never stated reason for reliance upon Acts is that without it we should have
nothing else that is, no sustained account of Christian origins.
One prefers that the emperor have something to wear, even if the fabric and tailoring,
color, choice, and ensemble fall below tutorial ideals.
The following pages of this book set out to demonstrate that although Acts is far from
naked, much of its attire is, historically speaking, thread, bear, poorly coordinated,
and incomplete.
One cannot write the story of Christian origins by giving Acts a makeover.
If the story cannot be recovered, it is better to acknowledge ignorance than to build a house
upon sand.
Besides, Acts is not directly interested in the story of Christian origins.
Its purpose is to show the legitimacy of the Gentile mission associated with Paul.
It ignores much that does not fit this purpose.
Take for example, the beginnings of Christian movement in such places as Galilee, central
Mark, most of Syria, Alexandria, and Rome.
Other facts are twisted to fit the thesis.
Most apparently, Luke's presentation of the harmony among Peter, James, and Paul, for
example, Acts 15, Luke's nearly perfect crime is not just what he neglected to mention,
but his artistry in convincing readers that he has given them the big picture.
In what he has painted is merely a distorted portrait of one admittedly major segment of
the whole.
Deconstruction provides no more than short-term rewards.
Demolition of the edifice, erected by Luke, is, as stated, no more than a preliminary
task.
If the project of describing Christian origins can produce no more than bits, fragments, and
ejectures, the result will be no better than worse.
The result will be no better and no worse than what can be said of numerous other religions
and movements.
Acts is a beautiful house that readers may happily admire, but it is not a home in which
the historian can responsibly live.
That is the crime.
Answers to specific relevant questions follow.
Who wrote Acts?
The Gospel of Luke and the Book of Acts are like the biblical histories anonymous, anonymity
reflects neither modesty nor concealment.
Unnamed authors can serve as omniscient narrators if, for example, the first book of the Hebrew
Bible began with the statement that it was written by one Moses who had led the people
of Israel out of Egypt to the borders of the Promised Land and then continued in the
beginning when God created the heavens and the earth, an alert reader might object.
How do you know that?
Were you there?
Anonymity allows narrators to see and know all they wish to report.
In a phrase, anonymity conveys authority.
Not appreciating the advantages of this posture or attributing it to divine dictation, better
known as verbal inspiration.
Readers of biblical books have, from very early times, wished to identify a human author.
One basis for such identifications of anonymous authors is tradition.
In this case, the tradition that the third Gospel in Acts were written by a person named
Luke.
Traditions may be correct.
It could have been known and remembered that a certain Luke had in fact produced these
books.
They may also be the product of detective work.
The text of Acts suggests that the author was a Gentile and a companion of Paul.
Equipped with these clues, one turns to the Pauline letters in search of a suitable candidate.
Those letters, written by the imprisoned Paul, were presumed to have been composed at Rome.
In Colossians 4-10, the Apostles sends greetings from several believers of Jewish background
and three Gentiles.
Epipharus, Luke, and Dimas.
2 Peter 4-11 clearly written not long before the death of Paul implies that Luke was there
at the end.
Only Luke was with me.
And he is therefore the single viable candidate.
In this process, as in the mystery novels, it is presumed that the guilty party must
be among those named.
Acts could not stem from an unnamed companion of Paul because God would not cheat by omitting
the essential clues.
The same rationale stands behind the belief that God has planted within the Bible clues
from which one can deduce when the world will end.
The Almighty simply wouldn't neglect us to provide information about the topic of such
vital interest to human beings.
Those who hold that Christian scriptures are a puzzle, that when resolved will yield answers
to questions of vital interest to humanity, will probably be happier if they stop reading
this book.
Biblical prophets tended to provide God's answers to questions that people preferred
not to ask, such as whether it was proper to address, such as whether it was proper
to oppress the poor, or to hedge one's bets by venerating local gods with particular specializations
such as agriculture or disease, or whether the temple cult constituted an absolute guarantee
of national security.
To return to the subject of valid evidence, it is often asserted that tradition should
be accepted unless clearly refuted by indisputable facts.
This claim may look reasonable, but it is without scientific basis.
It is to continue the analogy of the stance of the lazy and shallow police inspector who
immediately apprehends the superficially most obvious but actually innocent suspect.
All traditions are hypotheses.
Good detectives understand that hypotheses pervading convenient solutions demand careful
scrutiny.
The tradition that Axe was composed by Luke, the companion of Paul, was most welcome to
early Christian opponents of a theology promulgated by Marcian of Sinope, who argued that Paul
was at odds with the other apostles.
For these writers, Luke was a convenient solution to the question of who wrote Axe.
Do convenient.
The perspicacious detective will say, second century Christian writers may well have deduced
from the very passages noted above the helpful information that Luke, a companion of Paul,
wrote Axe.
Granted, the police inspector may say, but that does not prove that the deduction was
wrong.
Negatives are notoriously hard to prove and therefore rarely constitute a good line of
investigation.
In this case, more can be gained from an analysis of the quality of the evidence.
Both Colossians and 2nd Timothy are among the disputed epistles.
It is not likely that Paul wrote Colossians and quite improbable that he composed 2nd Timothy.
The greetings in Colossians 4, 10-14 appear to be embroideries of those found in Philemon
2-4.
That is, Philemon was a source of Colossians.
Among the list of greetings that often come toward the end of Pauline letters, those in
Philemon and Colossians are unique in their similarity.
In some, the tradition could be valid, but it is suspiciously convenient, and the evidence
that supports it is dubious.
Furthermore, the content of Axe stands against this tradition.
For it views the Pauline world from a perspective of about 50 years after Paul's death.
All that can be said about the author of Axe must be deduced from the book.
This is a risky procedure.
Actual authors may not have the same opinions and worldview as those of the author implied
by a text.
Although people frequently assume that they do so, as can be seen in attributing such
sentiments as neither a borrower nor a lender be to Shakespeare, rather than to a fictional
character created by William Shakespeare.
Here for his own part may have thought that reasonable people might from time to time
engage in either or both.
Assuming that risk, it appears that the author of Axe was a Gentile, and from the grammatical
gender of a participle in Luke 1-2, a male.
Less debatable is that this person had some Greek education and was quite well versed
in the language of the Greek Bible whose content and style he could imitate.
Another reasonable hypothesis is that the author of Axe was either a lifelong Christian
or had been a part of the movement for many years.
That he was a companion of Paul seems quite unlikely for a number of reasons.
Positively, he was quite familiar with the region bordering the Aegean Sea, which divides
modern Greece from Turkey.
This matter of geography leads to another conclusion.
Where was Axe written?
The traditional provenance is Antioch, but Ephesus is more likely.
The narrator is at home in the Aegean area, vastly more familiar with cities and routes
there than those in southern Asia Minor or Palestine.
Whenever the narrative moves inland, the geographical details become more vague, if
not simply erroneous.
Ephesus also seems a more suitable basis for the geographical perspective of the author
we call Luke, then would be in Corinth.
For example, as Rome lies at a considerable distance from the narrator's eye, Ethiopia
is in the far south, a perspective common to all people of the Mediterranean countries.
But Alexandria, in Egypt, is also beyond his horizon, as is all that lies east of Damascus
or north of central Asia Minor, modern Turkey.
The latter is no more than a place to cross en route, to somewhere else.
More cogently, Ephesus is the high point of the Pauline mission.
The subject of a lengthy and spectacular chapter, 19, unpacked, Axe 19, packed with vivid incident
and crammed with adventure, nearly one fourth of the narrative recounting Paul's independent
missionary and pastoral labors and acts focuses upon Ephesus.
Paul delivers his farewell address to the presbyters of that community.
Those leaders hear his own summary of his career, his warnings of what is to come, and
his exhortation to do their duty after he has gone.
Yet, in Acts 19, Paul, who is the subject of the entire chapter, is no longer on stage
after verse 10.
For Luke, Ephesus is the location where the battle over the Pauline legacy is to be waged.
In the first quarter of the second century, Ephesus was a center of controversy, much
of which revolved about or interacted with the Pauline heritage.
Other writings and teachers associated with Ephesus include the Deutero-Pauline epistles,
Colossians and Ephesians, the Book of Revelation, the Pastoral Epistles, 1st and 2nd Timothy
and Titus, Ignatius of Antioch, and Serentus, an early Gnostic.
Ephesus was the site of at least one Pauline school or circle.
There in all probability, Paul's letters were gathered into a collection.
This collection eventually supplemented with the pastoral together with Luke and Acts,
became the pillars of the proto-Orthodox construction of the Pauline legacy.
The association of Acts with Ephesus involves more than a geographical location.
This provenance places Acts in the context of the battle over Paul, a struggle that began
within the apostles' lifetime and endured until the third century and beyond.
When was Acts written?
Scholarly consensus has dated Luke and Acts at circa 85, with a dwindling number who placed
the work in the 60s and a larger minority who preferred the last decade of the first
century.
The consensus date is a convenient compromise that seems to demand little proof.
I have argued elsewhere a considerable length that Acts belongs to the second decade of
the second century, circle 115 to 120.
The author's use of Paul's letters and his probable knowledge of the antiquities of
Josephus rule out a date before 100.
And whereas the Gospel of Matthew, for example, seeks to justify the existence of the Jesus
movement as an increasingly gentile body, Luke and Acts justify an existing boundary
between two religions, Judaism and Christianity.
The latter of which is the valid heir of God's promises.
Acts is also familiar with the organization and issues of Christian groups during the
first decades of the second century.
The author we call Luke writes narratives like those of the evangelists.
For example, Mark John Matthew, who told their stories for believers, but his mind is partly
occupied with the questions of the apologist, who from the middle of the second century
onward defended the faith against its polytheist critics and those who they thought were betrayed
Acts is also aware of the different understandings of the Christian message that would give rise
to orthodox and heretical formulations of the faith.
Acts was written after the Gospel as much as a decade could have elapsed between the
time when the author began to write Luke and the completion of Acts.
But this is no more than a guess.
The two volumes are related.
The assumption that Luke planned to write two books at the outset of his labors cannot
be proved, but it is not unreasonable.
The spectrum of possibilities ranges from an enthusiastic writer who decided at one
point to continue the story beyond where Mark ended, Mark 16.8, and found that this would
require another role of papyrus all the way to a careful designer who first planned the
entire work and then filled in his outline.
The story lies on the side of the planner, but spectrums have many points.
Chapter two will look at the question of the relation between Luke and Acts.
Why was Acts written?
The preface to Luke supplies a purpose so that you may know the truth concerning the
things about which you have been instructed, Luke 1.4.
Two refers to the dedicati, theophilus, and by implication to all believing readers.
A substantial majority of authorities would designate Luke-Acts as legitimating narrative.
Narrative refers to the medium, story, rather than treaty, sermon, letter, catechism, etc.
The unseemly participle legitimating expresses the purpose.
Acts propounds the legitimacy of Christianity as a largely gentile religion and as the valid
heir to the promises God made to Israel.
The Roman government is not the target of the book, for Roman officials would find it
disagreeable in style and obscure in content.
Equally difficult to imagine is an audience of traditional Jews who would regard much
of the work as odious and its claims as highly preposterous.
Luke's problem was not simply that God's fulfillment of the ancient promises led to
the inclusion of Gentiles.
Many Jews would have agreed with this ideal, at least at one time, although most would
have preferred to say former Gentiles.
His task was to demonstrate that Gentile Christianity was the legitimate inheritor of
those old promises, and not just any form of Gentile Christianity, but the fruit of
the Pauline mission, which is to say Christians who rejected Torah, the essence of Judaism.
From the market perspective, Pauline Christianity required no defense, for it was flourishing,
at least in some localities, but the question of the relation of old to new remained open.
If Luke and others represented a form of Christianity that hijacked the Israelite legacy
along with its sacred writings and claimed them as its own, some went him one better and
hijacked Paul by disowning any connection between the religion of Israel and faith in
the God proclaimed by Jesus and propagated by Paul.
The single well-attested representative of this trend was the above mentioned, Marcian,
who claimed that there was no link between the punitive and militant creator God of the
Jewish scriptures and the loving God of Jesus.
The narratives of Luke and Acts, with their strong emphasis upon continuity in the story
of salvation, are so effective as a counter to Marcian's arguments that the books look
as if they could have been written or revised to refute him.
And some have contended that this was indeed their purpose.
For those readers who think that the plot requires thickening, one may note that others
built upon Paul's statements about divine wisdom and heavenly secrets.
To erect a speculative theology designed to relate human destiny to cosmic mysteries.
Early phases of this technique can be seen in the Deutero-Pauline Colossians and Ephesians,
as well as in the anonymous letter to the Hebrews.
Its most radical product can be found in the Western representatives of what is called
Gnosis or Gnosticism, although others, including Ignatius, a bishop of Antioch, circa 125,
and the Alexandrian Christians, Clement and Origen, sought to remain closer to what would
become the mainstream.
Others turned Paul's apocalyptic thought in the direction of the coming fiery vengeance
upon evildoers.
Such ideas hold a central place in 2 Thessalonians and are still vigorous in the acts of Paul
which appeared around the middle of the 2nd century.
Other texts welcome Paul's epistolary method and pastoral technique, without fully embracing
his theology.
Among these are 1 Peter, which does not mention Paul but shares some of his theological outlook
and 1 Clement, which admires and quotes Paul but shares even less of his theological outlook.
This matter is complicated by the probability that Paul shared a number of early traditions
with these writings, that they had some common sources.
A number of early Christians may do without Paul.
The Gospel of John is a canonical example of a theology that has affinities with Paulian
thought but seems to have been developed independently.
More or less full independence from Paul evidently endured only in Eastern Syria, and what survives
from this region looks heretical by Western standards as even a casual reading of the
Acts of Thomas were revealed.
Then there were those who cared for Paul not at all, most of them fall into that ill-defined
and inappropriately named bag-labelled Jewish Christianity.
The Gospel of Matthew shows great openness to Gentiles who will presently constitute
a majority of the community.
But its rigorous ethic views Paul's ideas as an invention to libertinism.
The author of James uses the name of one of the known to have had reservations about Paul
and takes issues with Paul's views of how people become acceptable to God.
On justification Galatians and James 2 14-26.
In time there would be a verulently anti-Paulian movement associated with the names of Peter
and James, the Pseudo-Clementine recognitions and homilies issued under the name of Clement
of Rome placed Paul's teachings in the mouth of the notorious Simon Magus and denounced
Paul, albeit anonymously, as a renegade Jew.
The Pauline heritage, including the Deutera Pauline letters, Acts and other works related
to Paul, such as First Clement, Ignatius and Polycarp, provided the major underpinnings
to what is called early Catholic Christianity.
This movement which became the dominant form of proto-Orthodoxies supported strong church
government by bishops, presbyters and deacons.
Adherents to a basic creed similar in content to the Apostles' Creed which affirmed God
as Creator, Christ as God's Son, who became truly human and died to redeemed believers,
conventional social ethics and in general avoidance of speculative theologies and lifestyles,
complex as the preceding sketch may be, it is oversimplified.
What for example might be said of Revelation which has some Pauline and many anti-Pauline
elements?
Paul was an important figure and symbol in 2nd century Christianity, almost as important
when his name was not mentioned as when it was.
Many including those who disagreed with his ideas imitated Paul's practice of writing
letters and others followed Luke's lead by composing Acts of particular apostles.
When Luke wrote, the rockets representing various Pauline trajectories were not far
from the launch pad.
But the directions were plain to see.
In response to these questions and issues Luke sought to demonstrate that Gentile Pauline
Christianity was the religion or at least a legitimate manifestation of the religion
of ancient Israel.
The desired outcome was unity or at least mutual respect among believers.
Luke in short was not the kind of author who presented the arguments for major viewpoints
and then attempted to show which was correct.
Introductory obligations that remain outstanding are the questions what, that is the literary
genres of Luke acts, from what sources and how Luke and methods and techniques.
The third of these mysteries will be the subject of detailed attention in following chapters.
While genre and sources are consigned to the appendix, the clues that have been provided
thus far strongly suggest the accuracy of the following statements.
1.
An unknown Christian of probably long standing wrote Acts in Ephesus or its environs circa
110-120 amidst convulsive controversies about the nature of the emergent Christian faith.
2.
The author called Luke intended to show the continuity between Israel and the church and
the congruity among Jesus, Peter, James, and Paul in order to prove the validity of the
Pauline heritage and to promote unity among believers.
3.
Method.
Methods.
All authors of nonfiction will do their readers a disservice if they fail to make their
methods clear and explicit, appropriate to the subject in question and consistent in application.
The predominant methods on display here will be those known as historical and literary.
Postmodern study has exposed the limits and weaknesses of historical criticism but has
not dethroned it.
To assert that no method is purely objective or value free as an excuse for abandoning
method would be like Kierkegaard's simile about a college freshman using Socrates admission
that he knew nothing to justify abandoning study.
Historical criticism attempts to interpret a text on the basis of its original milieu.
Those unfamiliar with the Great Depression will find the grapes of wrath difficult, if
not incomprehensible.
This means a great deal more than their authors intended.
An original meaning can be willow the whips, but no study can neglect with imputiny.
The fact that early Christian writings were composed in an ancient language that can be
known but imperfectly, in cultures vastly different from those of the contemporary West, by and
two persons and groups whose circumstances, needs, assumptions, questions, and lives cannot
be equated with those of people today.
Insofar as it is criticism, historical criticism strives to be scientific, preferring probability
to improbability, the known to unknown, causation and sequence to caprice and chaos, and in
brief reason, logic, system, and congruity.
Insofar as it deals with the history, historical criticism encounters what is particular, unique,
and often enough improbable, illogical, and incongruous.
Recognition of the difficulties does not obviate the necessity of the quest.
The object of historical study is to discover not only what happened, but more importantly
why it happened.
Skepticism is one of its fundamental tools because learning is more likely to transpire
through raising fresh questions than by repeating familiar answers.
Doubt is not the adenim of faith, unbelief is.
Doubt is an element of any faith worth holding.
Well-founded challenges to received opinions should always be welcome, for they motivate
researchers of integrity to evaluate their presuppositions.
Well-founded is crucial and problematic for those seeking to communicate scholarly proposals
to the general public.
More and more people, for example, heard of the claims that sarcophagus of James the
brother of one Jesus had been discovered and then read the eventual notices that this coffin
was a hoax, probably even fewer asked themselves what this object would have proved since neither
the existence of James nor his eventual death had been subject to question.
There are many manifestations of literary criticism.
On its basis, especially for study of the New Testament, is the recognition of writings
as just that literary artifacts rather than a hodgepodge of isolated passages.
No work can communicate to people who do not understand its genre.
Those who do not accept the literary convention that people routinely deal with their personal
challenges by engaging in homicide will not be able to tolerate a murder mystery, nor
will those in search of a good science fiction read fine satisfaction from a treatise on
rocket science.
Meaning comes, of course, from context.
Neither a borrower nor a lender be, may or may not be good advice.
Its original literary function was to reveal the character of Polonius.
For a book like Acts, the essence of literary criticism is to look for the meaning of the
whole in the part, and that of the part in the whole, as well as to inquire how the whole
or part functions as narrative literature, rather than simply as religious sentiment
or doctrinal theory.
Other methods have a great deal to offer, but because historical and literary criticism
are the most appropriate tools for this project, they will dominate this book.
In this instance, literary criticism will most often be in the service of historical
criticism, as it will demonstrate more often than reinforce historical improbability.
An example, Acts 19, 11 through 12, God did extraordinary miracles through Paul so that
when the handkerchiefs or aprons that had touched his skin were brought to the sick,
their diseases left them, and the evil spirits came out of them.
Uncritical authors will take the text at face value, possibly softening its impact by appeal
to psychological factors.
The patients suffered from mental anxiety or psychosomatic trauma.
These transitional objects, handkerchiefs or aprons, brought the healing message of Paul's
gospel to mind, and with that recollection came emotional and spiritual relief.
The historical critic is not likely to accept the report at face value and will reject the
psychological explanation as obviuscating rationalization.
Historical criticism is willing to accept remarkable phenomena in theory and in general,
but inclines toward doubt in individual cases, especially summaries such as this.
Did these materials work universally and automatically upon believers no less than upon polytheists
for terminal cancer as well as for common colds?
How long did the effect endure for hours, days, months, decades, and so forth?
Having demolished probability, the critic will turn to the history of religions, taking
note of other miracles worked through relics of the second class.
At this point, historical critics will be prone, with or without acknowledgement, to
assume the mantle.
If you will pardon the metaphor of the literary critic, for critics of all types and stripes
will note Acts 5, 14 through 16, which describes the healing shadow of Peter, and add to that
Mark 6, 56, which speaks of the therapeutic fringe of Jesus' garment, with a reference
also to the potent cloak of Elijah 2 Kings 2-8.
Historical criticism will thus conclude that Luke and Acts portray Elijah, Jesus, Peter,
and Paul working similar wonders and explore the implications of that similarity.
A few basics.
Literary analysis notes not only parallels, but also literary techniques.
Luke shows continuity by telling similar stories about different figures in successive
stages of salvation, history.
Non-critical approach, especially view Acts 19, 11 through 12, as an embarrassment that
requires amelioration and will thus miss its point.
Rigorous criticism finds such material offensive and maybe do little more than say, that's
what people believed in those days, possibly also missing the point.
Critics with a literary sensitivity are likely to ask what the author was attempting to do
by telling the story.
In this example, the requirements for literary sensitivity are not high.
Most will see some connection between Acts 19, 11 through 12, and other summaries cited.
Purely, aesthetic literary critics may do no more than note what Luke was up to and how.
That is not, in my view, sufficient.
Political criticism requires historical judgment and courage.
If someone does not go on to point out that Paul appears superior to Jesus, since Paul's
accessories could function apart from his person, whereas Jesus evidently had to be
wearing the material.
That critic has failed to see what the emperor is wearing.
Those who do point to these sortorial implications of Acts 19, 11 through 12, and their number
is embarrassingly small, will often be satisfied with a shot at the author.
Look at this dreadful theology in which rags are therapeutic and Paul can do better than
Jesus.
Such comments are frequently justified, but they are not the final goal of criticism which
must ask, what is going on here?
Proposing some answers to that question constitute the goal of this book.
And now that some basic elements of the circumstances and the terrain have been established, it
is time to begin moving toward that goal.
Those who know anything about thrillers will not be surprised to learn that things will
have to get worse before things get better.
I know I spent a long time reading this opening chapter in this book, but the rest of the
book is obviously going to show you the improbabilities of the historical approach and maybe what
the author is up to.
What are they doing?
As you can see, Richard Pervo points out that the Acts of the Apostles, Luke and Acts, is
a propaganda, not only to maintain harmony amongst what look like fractioning sex of
early Christian leaders, but also a propaganda to show the innocence of Christians in the
Roman world.
Is theophilus needing someone to back up the innocence of this movement because they've
been guilty and been considered criminals with superstition in mind?
I think so, and I agree with the dating of this to the second century along with its
awareness of Josephus, but maybe I'll roll out more episodes diving deeper into what
is going on with this work of Acts.
But just because you see these undesigned coincidences or other apologetics to try and
make this some historical reliable truth, cut it out.
Go read what these academics are saying before you try and draw those kind of conclusions.
Thank you for taking the time to watch this video.
Hit the like button, support us if you like what you see in our hearing.
We appreciate that and never forget, we are MythVision.
