Why do we believe anything at all? Dr. Michael Schermer joins me, MythVision podcast today,
to explain why people believe in conspiracies, gods, ghosts, have strange political ideas,
and how we demonize each other based on these beliefs. How we reinforce things that we believe,
patternissony, agenicity, and talk about all the science of the brain. Why do you believe,
if you do? Or are you going to use a skeptics method to try and understand your epistemology?
We are MythVision. Welcome back to MythVision podcast. If you will, skeptics will be joining us
today. Look who's on the screen, ladies and gentlemen. Dr. Michael Schermer. Thanks for
joining us here at MythVision and look forward to the show. Thanks for having me, Derek. Nice to
see you. Thank you. I'm going to go ahead and give an introduction for those who don't know who you
are. Give a little something, something. Dr. Michael Schermer is an American science writer,
historian of science, founder of the Skeptic Society and editor-in-chief of its magazine, Skeptic,
which is largely devoted to investigating pseudo-scientific and supernatural claims.
The Skeptic Society has over 55,000 members. Schermer engages in debates on topics pertaining
to pseudo-science and religion in which he emphasizes scientific skepticism. Schermer was
the producer and co-host of the 13-hour Fox Family television series Exploring the Unknown,
which was a broadcast in 1999. From April 2001 to January 2019, he was a monthly contributor
to Scientific American Magazine with his Skeptic column. He is also a scientific advisor to the
American Council on Science and Health. Schermer was once a fundamentalist Christian, just like me,
but ceased to believe in the existence of God during his graduate studies. It always ends
up happening the more you learn. He accepts the labels, agnostic, non-theist, atheist, and others.
He has expressed reservations about such labels for his lack of belief in God, however,
as he sees them being used in the service of pigeonholing and refers to simply being called
a skeptic. He also describes himself as an advocate for humanist philosophy, as well as science
of morality. I appreciate you joining us, and we're going to talk about your book, specifically
The Believing Brain from Ghosts and Gods to Politics and Conspiracies, How We Construct
Beliefs and Reinforce Them as Truths. Thank you for joining me. Yeah, look, I was blown away by your
book, and I'm going to open up with a simple question and leave it to you. What inspired you to write
The Skeptic's Bible, The Believing Brain? Is that what that is? Okay, I should have called it that.
Maybe I would add even better book sales with Bible in the title. Well, so this was
something of a sequel to my first book, Why People Believe Were Things. I kind of wanted to integrate
different theories about belief, what it means to believe something, how we arrive at our beliefs,
and there I introduced the concepts of patternicity and agenicity and kind of integrated those into
explaining why people believe in ghosts and gods and demons and angels and aliens and conspiracies
and tried to wrap it all up in that. Most of my work is kind of sequential, like why people
believe were things with science and pseudoscience, and then how we believe with science and religion,
and then science of good and evil with science and morality, and so on. I kind of try to build on it,
and so this was kind of integrating them. See, that was 2011, and you know, since then I've written
books on the afterlife and moral progress, and now I'm working on one. I just finished a book on
conspiracy theories. I've never written a whole book on conspiracy theories and why people believe
them, and I felt the urge to do that now because they're clearly no longer on the fringe, right?
I mean, you know, the people that stormed the Capitol on January 6th, those are conspiracies,
you know, they believed the election was stolen, and they believe, most of them believe in QAnon,
believe it or not. So, and the president, now ex-president Trump, is still promoting conspiracy
theories about the rigged election, stolen election, and the deep state and all that. So,
clearly, what people believe very much matters. It's not just some kind of fringy thing about,
you know, astrology or psychics, you know, but in fact, all of us hold beliefs. Some of those
beliefs of which are probably not founded on reliable knowledge. They're probably not based
in evidence and logic and reason. They're probably based on something else, because who has the time
to research and study every single thing we believe, right? So, there's a lot we take,
I don't want to say on faith, but, you know, sort of on confidence that other people that told us
this is true are probably right. So, but, you know, so the tools of skepticism are really
important now more than ever, that is to say, just applying certain principles of skepticism
to any and all claims, you know, no sacred cows. We just, anything is game.
I love that, because it felt like the book was just doing a slam dunk on epistemology,
and let me ask you, what was the reaction to this book? I'm sure skeptics loved it. I mean,
I'm a skeptic now. I loved it even more, not knowing a lot of the things you mentioned we'll
get into, but what was the reaction? Did you get a lot of negative feedback too?
No, well, mostly positive. I mean, the people with whom I disagree,
I'm usually pretty polite and respectful to them, and I'm willing to talk to them like I have a
whole chapter on Francis Collins, because it was just before I wrote the Believe Your Brain,
his book came out, The Language of God, in which he explained that even though he was, you know,
head of the Human Genome Project, now he's head of the National Institutes of Health,
you know, he's a giant in science, and he's an evangelical Christian, and he wrote a book
to defend that, you know, and so in his book, he's not saying that, you know, my Christian beliefs
are just, you know, psychologically true or true for me, or mythically true, or or anything like
that. He means they're actually true. I mean, really true, like, like in a scientific kind of
truth. And so I thought, okay, well, this is in my wheelhouse. And so I devoted a chapter and I,
you know, called them up and talked to them for quite a while on the phone, and we've met a couple
times at conferences and stuff. And so I wouldn't say we're close friends or anything like that, but
we're definitely amicable with each other. And I think that's the way it should be. That is to say,
I try not to demonize people that I disagree with. There's already enough of that going on. It's
gotten even worse in the last few years, that it's better to try to steal man the other side
position that is try to restate in your own words what you think they believe and then discuss or
go after those particular points. So attack, you know, the idea is not the person, you know,
no ad hominem, especially no ad hitlarum, you know, the moment you call somebody Hitler,
the conversation's over. And so really, I think most of the people, you know, that I go after
people who believe in the paranormal, the supernatural, you know, ESP and psychics all
the way up to Christians and Jews and Muslims that believe in certain supernatural claims.
They're not that bothered by me because I'm nice to them. I'm respectful. And I was once there,
like you, you know, I was once a believer. And that actually gives you a lot of street cred for
with believers because it makes them think, huh, this guy was like me, wonder what happened.
You know, and then of course, in the back of their mind, I think they're thinking,
this happened to me. Yeah, good. I mean, people do change their minds sometimes about
their most fundamental beliefs. And you know, that's okay. So that's kind of the core of what
I'm trying to do in the book. You take us through your own journey. And I guess we'll kind of pass
that as we go through this, but I figure it's important. We start with belief dependent realism
and pattern recognition. Our epistemology can be our epistemology today, especially, we're using
scientific methods to try and derive truth. And I think that's super important that we're looking
for something that could be testable, something that can be observable and not just going off on
faith, like you talk about in the book. So can you take us into why we believe anything,
like what gives us this confidence to believe in stuff? And I know there's a lot of great
Yeah, no, that's a that's the central question, you know, for all of cognitive psychology,
I think. But just to back up for a second, yeah, you've touched on, again, these different kinds
of truths or beliefs that people have. So for example, somebody says, well, I believe in God,
I don't have any good arguments, it's just my faith. I'm not claiming it's true. In any scientific
sense, it's just what I believe. Well, it's like, okay, that's kind of the end of the conversation.
Really, there's nowhere to go with that. It'd be like if you said, well, I prefer dark chocolate
over milk chocolate. But okay, good for you. Or you know, this, you know, I believe in free will
and I believe in determinism. And you know, we're never going to resolve that. It doesn't really
matter if there's no way to resolve it is just okay, go about our day. But it's where people say
that no, actually, it's really true. Like I was talking to Jordan Peterson about this,
my podcast recently about, does he really believe in the resurrection? That is, did Jesus rise from
the dead? I don't know, because a lot of people think of it as kind of metaphorical, or mythical,
or psychological, or you know, bury your own cross, you know, forgive others and start over,
be born again, you know, and make your bed and clean your room. You know, if you mean it like
that, okay, then, you know, I understand the value of that kind of truth. But, but if somebody says,
well, no, no, no, I think this guy named Jesus really lived, I think he was crucified. I think
he was dead for three days. So really dead, not in a coma. I mean, dead, dead. And then he was raised
from the dead. And okay, well, that's an empirical claim in a sense. And therefore, you know,
skeptics, scientists, rationalists have a right to say, well, how do you know? Okay, what's your
evidence? And then we can analyze that. So that's, that's how I make a distinction there. Why do we
believe anything? Well, first of all, it's called learning, you know, just connecting the dots,
A is connected to B, you hear the rustle in the grass, is it a dangerous predator? Is it just
the wind? You know, this is my thought experiment for patternicity, finding patterns, A appears to
be connected to B. And maybe it's not. Maybe the rustle in the grass is just the wind, and it's not
a dangerous predator. So there's no reason to fear that. But that kind of error, if it turns out,
it's actually a dangerous predator, can take you out of the gene pool, that makes you lunch,
if you don't react properly. So I'm arguing that in the long history of our evolutionary past,
it was, it was a more survival mechanism to make type one errors to assume that the rustle in the
grass is a dangerous predator, even if it isn't, just in case, because we never know for sure.
And so part of the problem with the way our senses and brain is wired is that
most of the decisions we make are made under great uncertainty. You know, just nobody knows for
sure. It's very rare that we have like 100% certainty about something. And therefore, most
decisions we make are made under uncertainty. So virtually all of the cognitive biases people
write about, and there's dozens or even hundreds of them now, that, you know, they're there for a
reason is that, you know, much of the world is uncertain. There's no way you can sit there and
calculate everything and make the perfect decision. In fact, we know that people that have damage to
emotional parts of their brain have a hard time making decisions, like you stand there in the
supermarket aisle in front of the shelves of toothpaste, and you're like, well, which one
should I get? And then you have half an hour later, you're reading the labels, and what's got this
chemical in it, it's got that flavor, and, you know, you never make a decision. And people that
have these kinds of damage, they do have a hard time deciding anything. So that's an indication
that most of what we decide is very rapid cognition, you know, Danny Kahneman calls this
system one, you know, rapid cognition. And, and that's where these cognitive heuristics kick in,
like, you know, just have a just a rule of thumb, if I've seen it recently, then it's important,
something like that, even though that may not be the case. And so there, then I kind of pack on
top of the patternicity, agenticity, that we also assume that the patterns that we see are not only
real, but there's something behind them. There's an intentional agent behind them making the pattern
real. So in the case of the predator, well, a predator is an intentional agent, and his intention
is to eat me and that's not good. So it behooves me to assume that the rustle in the grass is not
just real and a dangerous predator, but, but that predator has agency. And, and I should assume that
kind of a mind reading thing, I'm imputing into this force something real. So that would explain,
you know, animism and polytheism and monotheism and many other things, you know, the belief in
witches and demons and so forth that they're there. I want to poke here because this is the
interesting, I guess why I'm in love with the idea of naturalism at this point is really,
it's like sitting and I say this all the time at a David Blaine miracle type of magic show, right?
And you're like, this guy's really doing it. But then this guy in the corner is going,
you want to see how it's done? Come here, let me show you. And I got to see behind the curtain
and went, Oh my goodness, I see how the stunt was made or at least it's not like a magic trick,
but really seeing how it happened. And when you describe these things like agenticity and, and
pattern recognition and going into animism, you said that word light bulbs went off because
that would be the earliest form of our worship that we know of would be animalistic, the world,
nature, and then go from there to, well, multiple objects, polytheism. Then we get to this strange
monotheism and we're still trying to carry these anthropomorphic ideas. Now I feel like Christians
are trying to keep up with us and they're going, God's beyond the comprehension of anything metaphysical
that we can even imagine. It's like every time science gets shifts, they've got to move God once,
one little chessboard further to being even more like he was walking with Adam in the garden,
for example. Now he can't be seen and he's so beyond. And it's like, so I really appreciate
you mentioning that because the evolution of the religion as, or religions period on top of
the evolution of man, there's like a compatible idea here that I think makes sense.
Yeah. So you end up with so many like Paul Tillich's conception of God is, you know,
the ground of all being. What does that mean? I mean, it's just, it's like word salad. It's what,
you know, Dan Denic calls a deepity. It sounds deep, but it doesn't actually mean anything.
You know, and I think, I think you've, you've hit it there that it's just a way of saying,
don't analyze this because you can't get it. You can't get at it through science. It's not possible.
Lawrence Krauss was on a day before yesterday. Yesterday I was interviewing him. He says,
hi, by the way, he said, tell my friend. And he mentioned the whole, he was on Bill O'Reilly
show or something. And Bill's like, dude, so you believe everything came from nothing? And he's
like, yeah, nothing. Now he's trying to define what nothing is. And most people who are ignorant
of this think they really understand what nothing is, but you really can't conceive of nothing.
That's the complexity of something like this. And so they think, well, that just means no
thing at all. And it's like, nice try. Like you can't really get there. But what he found interesting
was Bill O'Reilly. Let me, let me read, let me read you this description of nothing just to
capture what you're after here. This comes from Robert Tune and John Leslie in their book,
The Mystery of Existence. Why is there anything at all? So this is how he, so how do you, what do
you mean by nothing? So no space, no time, no matter, no light, no darkness, and not even
conscious beings to perceive the nothingness. But even that's not enough. Here's, here's
Cune's words, not just emptiness, not just blankness, and not just emptiness and blankness forever,
but not even the existence of emptiness and not even the meaning of blankness and no forever.
It's like, this is inconceivable at some point. I don't even know what I'm talking about.
I mean, we have these words that just become meaningless, you know, when you get to that point.
And of course, Bill O'Reilly and Theist, they don't have a good answer either. They just say, well,
you know, God was that outside of space and time. What could be outside of nothing?
That doesn't even make sense. And for God to create something out of nothing, well,
then curious minds want to know, how did he do that? You know, it's the same problem,
the mind-body problem, or the problem that I give to paranormalists, you know, that a ghost is
supposed to be this immaterial, pure energy substance. It's not physical. All right, how does
the ghost know to turn right at the end of the hallway and open the door and go in and then
knock the painting up the wall? I mean, to do that, you have to have some kind of physical
interaction with the physical stuff. How does a non-caporial being do that? How does God
reach into the universe to stir the particles to, I don't know, perform a miracle, curant,
Mary's cancer or whatever that God is supposed to be doing? How does he do that? Does he reach
into the cells in the tumor and reconfigure the DNA so it's no longer, you know, a cancerous growth?
You know, and of course, theists, they don't have an answer. They just say, well, you know,
God works in mysterious ways or, you know, that he's outside of space and time. Well,
what does that mean? Where is that? And if he is, then, and if he reaches in, can we measure it?
In some way? No. Okay, then what are we even talking about? So here, I do think, you know,
we hit an epistemological wall that, you know, neither skeptics, scientists, nor theists,
and believers have any access to. There's just no way to go further with the conversation
without something concrete enough to measure it, test it, talk about it. It's some logical
series of arguments or something. And, you know, then we just hit a wall. It's like the mystery
of existence. Yeah, that's a good title. You know, why is there something rather than nothing?
So when Lawrence is talking about nothing, he doesn't mean nothing like Atheist means it. He
means it in a scientific way, which has a specific meaning. And then they can talk about
virtual particles or, you know, like Lawrence makes the point that, you know, photons come out of
atoms. They weren't in there. They're created out of nothing. Okay, how does that happen? You know,
this is, you know, this is what physicists do, right? Physicists that work in that area.
This is not what I do. So I don't really understand it. I just kind of take it
on confidence that, you know, that these guys know what they're talking about. But Bill Riley
doesn't have a good counter. Oh, let me explain to you how God did it. He doesn't know.
No, and he said that. He told the Lawrence, he's like, well, nothing created it, you know,
and he's talking about, he calls God nothing. And it's like, oh, anyway, we're all agnostic
ultimately, even though they claim they're not. Everyone's really, truly agnostic on that in the
sense that no one really knows. You could play all the claims you want, but there's no actual
evidence for it. And so I figure it'd be a good time to go into your friend, the hallucinations
that he had. I love that part of your book. It introduces someone who's sincere. I mean,
one of a great, a great person who comes on and he hears something. I've heard things myself in
my own head, if you will. I feel like when I was a youth, I heard something auditorily outside of
my head when I was young. But you come in and you try to do this whole psychoanalyzing, tell us what
happens. Well, this is my friend Chick Darpino. That's chapter one. I call it Mr. Darpino's Dilemma.
And so the voice was as distinct as the message it delivered was unmistakable. Emilio Chick
Darpino bolted upright from his bed, startled that the words he heard so clearly were not
spoken by anyone in the room. It was 4 a.m. February 11th, 1966. And Mr. Darpino was alone
in his bedroom, seemingly unperturbed by what he was hearing. It wasn't a masculine voice, neither
was it a feminine voice. And yet, even though he had no reference guide built by experience from
which to compare, Mr. Darpino somehow knew that the source was not of this world. All right. So
I remember Chick's a long time friend, so he told me this story. And so I pursued this conversation
for quite a while and recorded the whole thing. And that makes up chapter one of my book that
he took it so seriously that he wouldn't tell me what the message was, specifically his 13 words.
I guess that it had something to do with love. And he said, that's right. But he also had a
message for the president. And I said, the president of what? He goes, the United States. It's 1966.
Okay. That's Johnson. And, you know, he took the his belief seriously. This is what I mean,
that, you know, beliefs matter. They have, you know, they lead to actions. And he went to, you
know, he went to the local, he was going to go to the White House to deliver this message directly
to President Johnson. And of course, he was told, well, you can't really do that. You know, so he
went to like the local FBI office, I think it was. And they said, Oh, really? Okay. Well, we have
somebody that we'd like you to meet. And it's just like, I interested. And, you know, he ends up in
a mental hospital, you know, it's like, you want to go see the president? Okay. And why? Because I
heard this voice. Okay. Right. But my point of that whole chapter, though, because I like Jake,
he's a friend, is that, you know, the experiences people have are real. I mean, I think most people
don't make stuff up. Most alien abductees that I've met, I don't think they're just making stuff
up to write a book and get on TV or whatever. I think they really have some kind of genuine
experience. We think it's probably sleep paralysis. They think they were actually visited by aliens.
But whatever it is, you know, to their, to their mind, it happened out there, not in here. And the
problem is, is that we're incapable of perceiving our brain acting. You don't detect neurons firing
or anything like this. The brain has no pain receptors. That's why once the surgeons cut through
the skin and skull and stuff, they can wake you up, you know, once the skull cap is off,
and they've cut through the dura mater and just brain exposed to the air, they can touch it with
electrodes and ask you what you're experiencing. This is one way that brains have been mapped.
And because it doesn't feel any pain, it's not painful. And so the schizophrenic that hears a
voice, you know, their neural networks associated with auditory stimuli are lighting up, they're
active, they're hearing the voice as if it was out there, even though we know it's in there due
to brain chemistry or whatever. So, and I think this is true for most experiencers of anything.
So like even Alexander, I met it, we were both on a TV show together. And, and in the green room,
he's telling me, you know, about what happened, I already read his books, I knew what happened.
And, you know, and, you know, he knows everything I know, this guy's a neurologist,
he went to Harvard, you know, he knows everything I know about hallucinations and,
you know, oxygen deprivation and out of body experiences and, you know, stress on the brain,
neurochemical substances that change and distress on and on and on. He knows all that,
but he nodded. Yes, I know all that, but that doesn't apply to me.
Wow. Essentially, he's saying my experience was so different, so special, so powerful,
that it doesn't really fall into the category of all these other people. So to there, I'd simply
apply the Copernican principle, you know, I'm not special. My brain is wired the same as your
brain. You know, I don't have any special neurochemical transmitter substances. I got dopamine,
you got dopamine, I got norepinephrine, you got norepinephrine. We got little synaptic gaps in
there. We have the same neural networks and modules and whatever. And so if, you know, if,
if I experience something and you experience something, let's say pain or emotions, you know,
it's a pretty, it's a pretty safe bet that you really are experiencing those things. This is,
this is the problem of other minds, solved, I think, that is to say, it's not possible. I'm the
only sentient being on earth and all the rest of you are a bunch of zombies walking around with,
with the lights out. No, the chances are pretty good. I'm not special. I'm just like you. We're
all sentient. If I am, you are, and so on. So I think, you know, it's unreasonable for the
experiencer to say, mine's different than everybody else's. They're all hallucinating. And it's,
I think I wrote, wrote about in the believing brain, maybe it wasn't there, but the three
Christs of Ypsilanti. No, I think I did write about that. The psychiatrist in Ypsilanti, Michigan,
at the mental hospital there had three different patients who thought they were, each of them
thought they were Jesus. And so he thought, well, I'll just put them all in the room together and
see what happens. You know, and each of them said, well, these other two people are crazy.
Wow. Okay. Did you know I interviewed the Australian Jesus here on MythVision? I actually
interviewed him on the show. No. Two hours ago. I was so nice to him. And, but he is very passive
aggressive. And so long story short, the whole time we finally get to this point where I was
able to kind of poke. And he was saying, I said, what do you say about the Russian Jesus? There's
a couple guys out there that are like having serious followers. What do you think? And he goes,
well, in the spirit realm, there are spirits that are pretending to be Jesus and they're cloaking,
they're cloaking, whatever that even means, these people and they're speaking to them,
telling them that they're Jesus and they really think they are. And I said, wow, could you be
over cloaked by this, by a spirit telling you that you're the real one? And he's like, no,
yeah. He said, no, I don't change. I've been the same before the spirit over cloaks me. I'm the
same. But you know what's funny? He's an ex-Jahovah's witness elder. He was married and had kids before
with a woman with two children. And now all of a sudden he's with a new girl. She's supposedly
Mary Magdalene, his wife. Of course. The Bible is wrong. All right. He knows the true
ministry, but it gets really weird. I don't want to waste too much time, but there's some weird
stuff. No, no, that's a great story. I love that. Well, that shows you the power of belief.
Assume that he's not just making this up. Probably he did have some kind of unusual
experience like that. And who knows what else was going on, leaving his wife or this other
woman. Maybe there was something a little more basic there with human psychology,
sexual psychology. But in any case, that just shows the power of belief and also
how difficult it is to test something like that. Whereas he's applying principles of skepticism to
other people. Like, oh, yes, well, they were hallucinating or they had this or that, but not
me. It's a little bit like when I challenged Christians who tell me that the resurrection
really happened. It was a miracle. And Jesus performed other miracles, walking on water and
the loaf of bread and raising lasers from the dead and so on. And it's like, well, how do you
know this happened? Well, because, you know, lots of people saw it and they talked about it and they
were, you know, amazed and in awe and wonder. It's like, well, have you heard of Satya Sai Baba in
India, you know, the early 20th century fake here, this sort of guru, he does all the same thing,
you know, that he raised the dead and levitated and performed miracles and walk on water and the
whole thing. And millions, many millions in the 20th century, this isn't, you know, like 2,000
years ago, this is like, you know, current events. And so, you know, why isn't that true? Well,
because, you know, no, no, those are fake, you know, magicians, they're doing tricks. Well,
how do you know your guy didn't do the tricks? Well, no, because, you know, the conviction of
the believers, well, the people that believe, you know, these fake here is in India, they believe,
they're not, you know, they're not blind, they believe it. And so, it reminds me of,
it reminds me of skeptics who tell me, oh, I'm a total skeptic, I love your work, but, you know,
but I saw this one thing, this guy bent the spoon. And I know, I know about Ari Geller and the,
you know, this and that, but he bent it in a way that was twisted, the neck was twisted,
you know, and it was no possible way because I've tried it, I can't do it. I remember this
happened during a cruise I did at the Bermuda Triangle for Scientific American. So here is
a bunch of people that subscribe to Scientific American, so they're all presumably, you know,
pretty rational. And as he's telling me the story about the spoon, I slide the spoon
beneath my lap and I do this little twist move where you take the bowl and the handle and you
just twist it like that. And it looks like it's twisted this way, but it's actually twisted
that way. It's kind of hard to show on a video, but I don't have a spoon here with me. But,
my point is it's a pretty simple magic trick. It took me like 10 seconds to do it. And then I
put it back next to my plate. He didn't see any of this because he's just talking. And then I just
held it up. I said, you mean like this? And he's like, oh, crap. I go, yeah, it's just a trick.
How'd you do it? I'm like, all right, so I'll show you. So I showed him. He's like, oh, okay.
Now, Randy always made this point that exposing how the trick is done is not necessarily a good
thing because there may be some other way that the person is doing it, you know, and that the
person who now knows how that magic trick is done says, but he didn't do that. He did something else.
It's like, okay, but here the principle is, you know, why would you assume that, you know,
all these other things are fake because we know how they're done. But that one right there,
I mean, do you think that Copperfield actually walks through a wall? Do you think he actually
makes the Statue of Liberty disappear through some quantum physics thing? Well, no, of course not.
I know it's a trick. Right. Well, why would you think the guy sitting at your table at a restaurant
is actually, you know, using quantum physics to bend the spoon instead of what's more likely?
You know, so we call this the what's more likely principle, you know, that it's some
supernatural paranormal phenomenon, or you just don't know, right? It's the argument from personal
incredulity or the argument from ignorance. I don't know how it's done. Therefore, it must be
miraculous. Sometimes this is also called the David Johnson calls this the mystery, therefore,
magic principle. You know, it's a mystery. I can't explain it. However, those pyramids built,
there's no way they could move those, you know, 1000 tons stones impossible. I can't think of it.
Therefore, aliens or therefore, they use some magic power or something like that. How about you
just don't know? How about look it up? And there are theories about how the Egyptians did this.
Now, maybe you reject those theories. Okay, fine. But at least know what they are before you before
you turn to magic, right? So anyway, I've got a slide track there. But that, you know, those are
the kind of that's where I started with, you know, there's certain principles of skepticism that we
can apply. And this is what I try to teach my students. If I tell you how to think about all
these different mysteries, that's not going to be very helpful because you're going to encounter
something, you know, years from now that I've never even heard of. And they go, Oh, well,
Schirmer never talked about that one. Therefore, that's the magic. No, no, no, apply the, you know,
mystery, therefore, magic principle. It's not the case. It's almost like the next level of
science that we find of something that pushes God out of the way more, they're just going to
adjust their magic trick to make it bigger and better to keep holding on to it with cognitive
biases. I honestly believe that's something so I'd like to ask you something before we move to the
next subject in the vein of this is what is your and you're not a theologian, you're not a biblical
scholar. This isn't but you read the Bible and you believed it like me when you were young.
My question is what do you, based on everything you know now about the brain and psychology and
understanding why we believe in things, what is the best explanation to you that fits what happened
with the Jesus cult? Do you think they had a post bereavement hallucination somebody or do you
think Paul was a con man or like, what's your guess? Because I know it's all, it's a guess,
it's a guess. Yes, it's a guess, right? Well, I think there's several factors at work here.
I mean, Jesus is not the first person to, you know, rise from the dead to come down from heaven
as God and interact with humans. And so Bart Ehrman has an entire course on this, you know,
how in a book, a teaching company course and a book, how Jesus became God. And it turns out in
those times, in those Roman times, it was not uncommon for gods to come down and interact with
humans for humans to go to heaven and interact with gods for gods to become part human and vice
versa for humans to become partially God. And so on, there were just tons and tons of stories
and characters in Roman mythology that people pretty much accepted is true. And that the Jesus
story was not that unusual. I like to talk about, what's his name? Apollonius of Tyanna. Same thing,
contemporary of Jesus, walked out of water, raised the dead, and then was persecuted and then died and
rose to heaven after his death. Okay. And of course, Christians go, oh, well, they stole that from
the Jesus story. Well, you know, maybe, but it was contemporary. So it wasn't all that accepted.
It wasn't accepted until centuries later. And Christianity became the state religion of Rome.
Well, so my point is that, first of all, it's not unusual for that story at that time,
for people to just accept it. That was kind of in their cultural milieu. And then, yes,
post-death bereavement, people who love somebody or as close to somebody who dies,
they do have post-death apparitions. They see them more commonly. They hear their voice.
That's not that unusual. There is studies on this show some non-trivial percentage. I forget
what it is, but it's a two-digit number of people that have these kinds of experiences. So
the harder thing to explain, I think, to take some demographics and some statistical analysis is
how Christianity became so large. And so Ehrman has some calculations in his latest book.
I forget the title of the book, but it's basically how Christianity became so huge.
Yeah. Triumph of Christianity. That's it. Triumph of Christianity. Yeah, that's it.
You only need like a 1% growth rate. Just think of the economy. That doesn't sound like a lot,
but over the course of decades and centuries, you can get many millions. And then when Constantine
made Christianity the official state religion in the late 4th century, okay, that kind of sealed it
early 4th century. Sorry. And then you get momentum built from there, and you end up with a handful
of major world religions. That's kind of how most things go. You start off with a new industry like
automobile manufacturing. There were hundreds of car makers in the early 20th century, and then we
ended up with just a handful. That's kind of usually how it goes. We have a duopoly of most
things, diaper manufacturers. There's just really two that make 99% of all the diapers. And this is
true. These are power laws. 90% is explained by count of four by 10%. Let's say. I was thinking
about this recently with podcasts. Like 10% of the podcasters have 90% of the money and audience,
but it's even worse than that. It's probably more like 10, not 10%, 10 have 90% of the audience.
But so if you think about that in the context of religion, you could have thousands of religions
and gods and godlike human beings and so forth. And that eventually this is kind of how markets
move, including the market for religion. You end up with just a couple that are that account for
you know, 90% of humanity. And that's of course the three Abrahamic religions, and then Hinduism,
Buddhism, couple others that pretty much accounts for everything. So I think there, you know,
that accounts for that growth. Now, none of this has anything to do with any of this is true or
not. That's a separate question. But but arguing that well, we have more numbers than they have
doesn't work because you know, Christians, well, okay, there's two billion Christians, but there's
you know, like 1.2 billion Muslims. All right. So what's the line that you go, okay, well,
now it's true because we hit 1.5 billion. So epistemologically, you make any sense. And
of course, Jews are tiny, you know, there's like 16 million Jews in the whole world is nothing
compared to Christians and Muslims. And yet, you know, they believe that, you know, that
they're particular doctrines. And in fact, they even accept that there will be a Messiah. They
just don't think Jesus and Nazareth was it. And they even think it's possible to raise somebody
from the dead. They just don't think it Jesus was the one who rose from the dead. They just don't
think that's the case. Some often fond of asking Christians, you know, if your arguments are so
good, if you if you think the evidence is so solid, why don't Jews and Muslims accept this?
And you can't argue that, you know, Imams and rabbis don't understand the arguments. Of course,
they understand the arguments. They know all the arguments, what they do for a living. They read
all these arguments about these deep questions. So they just don't accept it, you know, and there's
never going to be a consensus because it's not religious truths are not like empirical truths.
Right. Well said. And I need to ask you a good question since you know the mind and your book
is really good on this. I'm a recovering drug addict, and I'm open about that. I have a whole
another channel that I help drug addicts and just kind of document my experience. So five years,
over five years, October the 25th, I'll be six years from heroin. And yeah, I was injecting the
whole nine. I'm very open about this. I say this because someone out there is going through something
too. And I think it's important that they know that life can be better and there is life after if
you get through this hardest thing I ever had to do. But when I got clean, I had this experience
where like synchronicity type thing where it was like the universe I was like desperate. I mean,
I was literally believing I was going to die. And the universe started lining up for me. Right. So
the way I remember it, you could tell what I'm already doing here. But the way I remember it
and tell the narrative to people, I mythologized my own narrative. And I did a little critical
analyzing of my own story just recently with my wife. Like just one example, the day I left the
house that I was withdrawing at and got clean, I went to the gas station to buy a pack of smokes
at the time I smoked. I wasn't going to quit everything at once. You got to give me a break,
you know. So I get a pack of marbles and I'm looking at the front page of the newspaper and
it said heroin addiction sweeping North Carolina. And there was a tourniquet and arm and a syringe
and it was like vivid. And then I opened the story and there was a guy in there who said it feels
like God comes out of heaven, wraps his arms around you and says, I love you. Everything's
going to be okay. Which is kind of like your friend who hallucinated and the voice that spoke to him.
But I connected to that. And then I was like, okay, then later on, I get a job a couple weeks
later to a month. And it's at a solar renewable energy company. So solar panels and stuff.
The same day that I got that job, I went to the gas station to buy a pack of smokes and found out
there's solar panels on the front page of the newspaper. And so here I go and I'm like,
everything lined up. But when I look back, even if that were the case, it's still possible that
there's this probability of coincidence. But nonetheless, I look back and it wasn't the exact
day that I got hired that I actually went and saw solar panels on the newspaper. I
Oh, interesting. I made my own narrative. Can you describe what that is in the brain?
Oh, that's, that's very good. Yes. Well, there is a storyteller
narrator in the left hemisphere, Michael Kazanaga, the UC Santa Barbara neuroscientist
calling this. It's really just kind of a way of talking about how the brain operates to make sense
of the, you know, buzzing, confusing world of information coming into our senses. He discovered
this through patients with brain damage that that in this in this area, or in this particular kind
of memory disorder they have where they they have no short term memory, they can't remember why they
do anything. But they just make up stuff or you do like the split brain patients where, you know,
you show them a picture of a coke and but but it's a split brain thing. So only only the right
hemisphere sees the coke and they can pick the coke out with the left hand if they had objects to
pick. But they don't know why they picked that one. But but but then maybe to get up and they go over
the bending machine and get a coke and you know, well, why did you do that? Well, I was thirsty.
Well, that isn't why they did it. They did it because you know, he just primed them with an
image and and so they just make stuff up. The funniest one was this woman had this peculiar
memory disorder and she's in the hospital and and she wandered down the hallway to the elevators and
and she said, you know, I'm home. She thought she was home and they go, well,
this bank of elevators, you know, you're clearly not at home. She goes, do you know how much it
cost me to have these installed at my house? And it's like, whoa, she was totally into it. So,
you know, he coined this left hemisphere narrator that is a storyteller as a metaphor for what we
all do. That is, we have all this information coming in, we're trying to piece it together in
some kind of sequential way that that has cause and effect relationships and so on. And otherwise,
it would just be chaos. You wouldn't even be able to leave the house, right? And then this applies to
autobiography, you know, whatever, explaining why you did something yesterday or last year,
20 years ago or whatever, reconstructing your life. You have this hindsight bias where you're,
you now know how it turned out. So then you go back to put together a causal sequence of how you
got there. Even though there's no sense in that at all, it's mostly just kind of random. You know,
most people don't have direct career paths. You know, I knew I wanted to be a doctor when I was
five years old, and I read medical books and I went to medical school and I did. Most people don't
do that, right? They just kind of bounce around from one thing to another. I went to this college
and I married that person, I got that job, I ended up there, moved to this city, blah, blah, blah.
And then they look back and go, oh, it all had, it was all meant to be, right? Even, of course,
theists do this with, you know, God kind of had this plan for me. But even atheists do this,
you know, just trying to make sense of, you know, why I did that, you know, okay, why did
I choose that college? Well, here's why. Well, that's probably not what you were thinking at the
time. You're just making that up now, right? It's really kind of a disturbing idea of explaining
how lives turn out. It's very different when you're in the middle of it versus when you're
looking back on it. So yours is a perfect example. And then you have memory distortions. You mentioned
conflation and confabulation. And, you know, we all do this. You know, Carol Tavris writes about
this in her book. Mistakes were made, but not by me about cognitive dissonance, the chapter on
memory. She talks about this warm memory she's had for years about her and her father when she was
like five years old and her father reading her this book. And she's always remembered that forever.
And then anyway, she went back and looked to see when the book was published. You know, it was
published after this happened. It could not have happened when she was that age with her father.
The book was published years later. It's like, well, where did I get that? She just made that up,
but not made it up. That sounds, you know, unfair. It's just this is what human memory does. It's
not a video camera in there. There's no screen theater that we play back the scenes from our life
and watch them unfold and then write it down. Not how it works. You know, it's just constantly
editing. So, you know, do you remember your fifth birthday? Or do you remember when you were 10,
your mother telling you about your fifth birthday? And now you remember the age 10 memory of that,
which was probably modified by the time you're 15. And now you're 30 something or whatever you are.
And it's changed again and again and again. Where's the real memory? There is no real memory.
There's nothing in there that is really it, right? It's just constantly edited. It's a disturbing
idea. We think, you know, the image is coming in visually and they end up in the visual cortex
back here that like there's something like the image, you know, being kind of cast back there,
almost like an image on a screen. It's nothing like that. It's just neurons firing it. The most it
would be was just just a big table of numbers, you know, representing the number of times a neuron
fired and the speed with which rapidity of which it fired and so on. There's nothing corresponding
to what's out there. So I mean, it's a pretty disturbing idea in terms of what we know about
reality. You know, there's again, the only thing we can lean on as a Copernican principle is that
you know, I'm not special. So you probably see the same thing. I see your red probably looks like
my red, but you know, we don't know for sure because there's no red in there. Right. And
some people are color blind for what we consider a color. So there's variations there, but that
still doesn't mean it's like completely other world. Now, now philosophers epistemologists
make a difference between say color. So I can see this kind of purple color, you probably see purple
too. Right. You know, we don't know for sure there because, you know, you might be color blind and
color is a different thing than shape. So, you know, this shape actually exists, you know, it's
really there. It's not just distortion. So they do make a distinction between physical things.
So like the bat, does the bat see what I see? Well, I don't know the image of whatever,
you know, this looks like to a bat as it flies around. It's probably different on its brain
than my brain, but this is really there. And it's really avoiding it using sonar. And I'm
avoiding it or I'm holding it using my senses. So there is that distinction.
Yeah. And this leads us into another discussion. But before we get to the whole philosophical
stuff that I love you brought up in the book, I want to ask you to comment on Dr. Francis Collins
conversion to Christianity because it doesn't matter how smart you are. It doesn't matter what
you know. Oftentimes emotions and feeling a comfort in something is extremely powerful,
more than any logic or even rationality sometimes. Like I know very brilliant people who might be
addicted to heroin and you ask them, well, why would they do heroin when they're geniuses? Well,
have you ever done it? So when you feel the warmth and the sensation, let's say you're going
through a traumatic situation. I don't know. But would you comment and tell me what your
thoughts are on why he did what he did? Right. Well, again, just since you mentioned the drug
addiction, yes, to have the experience itself is different from reading about it. So I do,
like you, come to, you know, religious questions like this, having had experienced it. You know,
I was definitely a born again evangelical Christian. Some Christians say, well, you never really
believe because you don't believe now. Right. That's a little too convenient. No, I did. I really
believed and I so I understand the mindset. You know, when you're in that bubble, there's a kind
of certain internal coherence and consistency to it. And it's reinforced by the people that you
surround yourself with that are mostly other believers. And in my case, I went to Pepperdine,
which is a church of Christ school. It's a Christian school. Professors all believe and
all the students believe and so on. So, you know, there it's, it's, it's kind of easy to fall into
that mindset and kind of understand why, you know, other people don't believe, but we got to convince
them because we know it's true. Right. So I think in case of Francis, I was just kind of looking up
the passages there on this leap he took. As he wrote for a long time, I stood trembling on the
edge of this yawning gap, finally seeing no escape I leapt. Oh, he's quoting, oh, he's quoting
C.S. Lewis there and is analogous to his own leap of faith. And, and so he, he writes here,
this leap was frightening. I wouldn't have taken, taken so long to get there. But when I finally
made the leap, there was a sense of peace and relief. I had been living with the tension of
having already arrived at a confidence in the plausibility of belief, but realizing that
could not be a stable position for the rest of my life. I was either going to have to deny that
or go forward. Going forward seemed frightening and going back seemed intellectually irresponsible.
That an easy middle ground clearly wasn't going to be a place I could live for too long. So,
so he makes this leap and you know, he talks about this scene, this three frozen water falls
on a hike and that was like the trinity for him and so on. I mean, there the final thing,
I think came from this personal experience. He just had this moving emotional experience.
Now, from a purely epistemology point of view, that's not, you know, justified reliable knowledge,
justified belief, because we can all experience emotions that change things. But that doesn't
mean they're true in any empirical sense. They may be, again, mythically true or true for you at
that time, you know, and it made you feel better, changed your life, whatever, that's all fine and
good. But that's different from, you know, pure scientific question. I think in the case of Francis
Collins, like so many smart people, he just has what I call logic type compartments in his brain.
You know, you just keep separate. This is over here. This is over here. We all do this. I mean,
you know, in terms of, you know, whether you should be a Democrat or Republican, you know,
which is the right one, this right one, you know, it's like, it depends what you want,
what your goals are, and you think a society should be going this direction, you think society
should be going in that direction, and we take up different positions, and then we argue and debate,
and then we have an election. Okay, so that's it. That's a kind of thing like, well, why are you a
Republican? Of course, people in hindsight, and, you know, other cognitive biases, well,
fundamental attribution bias, I believe for rational reasons. Why do you think that guy's,
you know, a liberal? Oh, he's a bleeding heart, you know, emotional basket case, and he feels
bad for the poor, whatever, he's weak. You know, that's another one of these attribution biases,
you know, we attribute to others different motives than our own. But it's all just post-hoc after
the fact reasoning about justifying our beliefs, even though they're not justified in the same way
that a scientific claim would be justified or not. Interesting. I love that you actually touched
on something interesting when you said that they're looking at other people and not actually
examining their own. Just recently interviewed Professor Elaine Pagels on the origin of Satan.
Now, she's a Princeton University professor, but she said, ultimately, what she found out is,
everyone calls the other group Satan. It's always a group arguing against another group. Oh,
they're working for Satan. It's what we see with Christians today, but even at its origins back in
the ancient text, it's the same thing. So anyway, non-duality. That's interesting. I'm skipping
around here because I don't want to keep you here forever. Non-duality. But let me comment on that
that Elaine Pagels said, because you just made me think of, you know, modern politics and how
polarizing it is. It's no longer the case that, let's say liberals and conservatives simply disagree
about what the proper immigration policy should be. Let more in. Don't let as many in. Of course,
we have to have an immigration policy. We're not going to have completely open borders. We're not
going to have 100% closed borders or what the proper upper tax bracket should be. It's 37% now
for the highest earners, federal tax, separate from state tax. You know, well, what should it be?
25%, 50%? It used to be 70, what, 79, 72% I think in the 1950s. And, you know, so what's the right
answer? Well, there's no right answer. It depends on, you know, what our goals are. But now people
are so polarized that they demonize the other side. They're not just disagreeing about the
percentage. You know, like conservatives will say, well, they're socialists. They're communists.
They're evil. They want to destroy America. They want to take your jobs, your hard earned money,
that you earn legitimately, and they want to steal it from you because they're evil people.
Right? I mean, this is, you hear this every day. You know, just turn on any conservative talk radio,
Fox News, it's terrible. It's just terrible. And they're not alone. The other side does it too.
You know, they kind of demonize conservatives as, you know, these right-wing radical white
supremacists, neo-Nazi races, bigoted and so on and so forth, and most of them aren't that way.
Right? So I fear we're moving in the direction that you just described with Elaine Pigle saying,
well, this is what religions do. The other side is demonic and satanic. But we're on the side of
the angels. Unfortunately, this is spilled over into politics. And I think that's why it's so
polarizing, the, you know, the far progressive woke left pulling the center to the left,
and the, you know, the Trump supporters pulling the center to the right. Still, even now, here we
are May 17th, you know, months and months after January 20th, change of administrations still,
still going on. So I'm worried that this kind of demonizing of the other people, not just
they have whole different positions, but they're immoral, they're evil people for believing that.
Not good. No, it isn't. Have you heard of Bernardo Castro? He is a philosopher.
I have heard, I've heard that name, but I forget what he's affiliated with or associated with.
Non-duality, the idea of consciousness and non-duality, I think he takes, obviously,
a non-naturalist materialist angle, so to speak. So philosophical naturalism wouldn't be something
he's on board with. And you mentioned in your book, this whole idea, though, of non-duality,
people like Deepak Chopra, so to speak, that come on and they have this, what I like to call,
fluff that sounds extremely intelligent. I mean, like, you know, he can outspeak the
physicist on their own topic and stuff like that. But can you comment on the whole consciousness or
deal? I know that we still have what is this big question mark on ultimately understanding what
consciousness is. You talk about that in your book. I recently interviewed Professor Mark
Solms on his book called The Hidden Spring. And it was a wonderful book. You know, he delves into,
yes, it comes from the brainstem. In fact, he thinks it's not the cortex. He actually did
some. What, consciousness? Consciousness comes from the brainstem, or at least from something
within the brainstem that is causing the, our most primal evolutionary part of us being the
brainstem. Because when someone doesn't even have a cortex, yeah, they can't speak. Yeah,
they can't. They don't motor functions in the same way sometimes. But they still are conscious enough
and aware of certain things, like a mother hands the daughter to the five-year-old that has no
cortex. It was born that way. I can't remember the term. She smiles in a way. She's happy to hold
her sister. And some animals, they say, raise children without a cortex. But what do you think
about the ideas of consciousness? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh boy. Well, that's a can of worms. Yeah. So,
you know, where, you know, where is sentience? Where, where does it exist? I do think you probably
need something like a cortex. I can't imagine it coming from the brainstem. If so, then, you know,
then you'd have to say, well, the lowest organisms, you know, a flatworm is sentient. Okay. Well,
there are some people believe that, you know, that kind of a panpsychism, you know,
where everything is sentient and conscious, even, you know, my phone or this, this cup of coffee,
you know, a pair of socks has some low level of consciousness. I don't know. To me, that doesn't
pass the, you know, kind of this, this melt test that, you know, that does that make sense test?
You know, I can imagine, say, my dog having some level of consciousness and awareness,
but much lower than primates and certainly way lower than humans. What are we talking
about there? We're just talking about layers of cortical networks, you know, layers on layers
on layers that at some point it just, you know, becomes self aware, you know, that the maps are
aware of the other maps or whatever metaphor you want to use. I think it's, it's called a hard
problem in a way because maybe we haven't conceptualized it correctly to be able to answer it.
Therefore, we still don't have an answer after decades of neuroscience. It doesn't seem to be
any closer to explaining the hard problem of consciousness. That is the qualitative experience
of what it's like to be something. So, you know, Deepak is actually a monist. He's a mind
monist. He thinks he's like Tilly consciousness is the ground of all being can't get under it.
It's, you know, the further down into the atom you dig or the brain that you bore into, it's just
consciousness all the way down. Instead of turtles, it's consciousness. And okay, well,
then why is it that whatever the conscious function of this part of my brain is doing
when that is damaged or taken out, stroke, surgery, whatever, in that function is gone,
where did it go? Now, to, you know, people like Deepak say, well, it, you need the neurons like
the radio needs the wires and the capacitors and the speaker and so on. Well, okay, but I know that
there's a radio station right downtown there broadcasting that I'm listening to on my radio.
What's the equivalent of the broadcaster for consciousness? Where is that in the universe
or wherever it's supposed to be? And they don't have a good answer to that. You know, it's just,
well, it's everywhere. Yeah, but everywhere is too big a term. I mean, that doesn't really explain it.
It's unfalsifiable. It's, it's like this. And that's, that's, I get why people do it. I think
they, they feel comfortable, comfortable from that. But I'm going to ask one more question,
if you're okay with that, because I want to do this again. And I want to reserve some of this.
Everyone needs to go, go down in the description. I'm telling you guys, I left a video Amazon
review of this book, The Believing Brain. I swear on it, you will appreciate this book. I'm not
kidding you. There's a lot that we aren't delving into. So near death experiences
aren't death experiences. They're near death experiences. So near death, right? Right. They're
near death. How do you explain what's happening there when people talk like, I know there's an
afterlife because I had a near death experience or this person had a near death. And you tapped
into this a little bit. People who do g-force stuff, like the blood's flowing in, they're seeing
the white tunnel because they're, they're, they're, they're visual shutting down. And anyway, can you
explain what a near death experience is from a scientific standpoint, the best we understand it?
Yeah. Well, you touched on it there, you know, oxygen deprivation is one explanation given,
you know, the cortex shutting down in a sort of systematic way leads to common experiences in
the same way that cortical experiences of, you know, seeing things and hearing things is common
amongst all humans. So, you know, you could show visual illusions. Everybody sees the same kind
of illusion for a reason because our brains are structured the same way. So we shouldn't be surprised
that there's certain common elements to near death experiences. The tunneling, going through the tunnel,
the white light at the end of the tunnel, where it differs, by the way, though, is what you see on
the other side of the tunnel. People see things that are personal to them, their religious figures
or icons, people that they had a loving relationships with that have passed over to the other side
and so forth. They think that's who I saw that my beloved wife or mother or whatever. And so,
of course, if you were actually in the specifics of the place you go to, they do also differ.
So even Alexander, since I talked about him, his heaven looks different from somebody else's.
Well, first of all, if you were actually going to a place that's really out there,
wouldn't it be the same, or at least it kind of looked the same? So their answer to that is,
well, heaven is not a place. It's a kind of a whatever, a multi-dimensional, some other
dimensional place, personal to you. Okay. Well, how is that different from me just having an
imagination, just making up a story in my head? Here's another skeptical principle. People seem
baffled when psychics or astrologers or tarot card readers or whatever, people that have
death experiences have such detail in the narratives. Just like this particular color,
I saw that person in this specific thing right here. As if human imagination is not that wondrous,
you have only to read fiction. Just read science fiction, fantasy, horror, Lord of the Rings,
any of the great works of children's fictions, whatever. Harry Potter. I mean, the details are
quite vivid. Well, where did those come from? The mind of the novelist, right? We have quite the
capacity to make stuff up. So I'm never surprised when I hear these fantastic stories. This is
what we do. And so now we don't have a complete consensus on the explanation of altered states of
consciousness in part because we don't have a good explanation for consciousness, right? We're
back to the hard problem of consciousness. If we don't know what that is exactly and why it happens,
then we're not going to have a perfect explanation for an altered state of that. So all we can do
is kind of pick up the specifics. Again, Sue Blackmore is very good on this. And she's also very
good at this because she's done a lot of mind altering drugs herself. So she knows what it's like
to, you know, to go on a ayahuasca trip or smoke pot or meditate for hours on end and kind of
drift off from your brain and feel like you're floating out there somewhere and have that kind
of out-of-body experience. And yet she knows that it's not actually happening. It's, you know,
somewhere. So Joe Rogan's wrong. No, I'm just kidding. Well, Joe Rogan's wrong. I'm not sure what
I forget what he said about that. But yeah, he's, well, he's pretty open to these things. Of course,
that's fine. It's good to be open-minded. But it's also good to know, well, what people, you don't
have to believe me. How about just someone like Sue Blackmore, you know, who's very open to these
things and yet still, you know, looking for scientific explanations for them. Ultimately,
you know, it's good to remember that these things all happen when, as you started off, when the
people are still conscious or on the kind of borderlands or shadowlands between being unconscious
and conscious. So like the even Alexander story turns out, when you dig into that a little bit,
all this happened when he was being brought out of a induced coma. He had this brain virus that
causes brain to swell. So they induced a coma so they could do stuff on him. So he was intubated
in the whole thing. And then they brought him out. So as he's coming out of unconsciousness
into consciousness, you know, that's not a light switch. It's more like a dimmer switch. And you're,
you know, bringing the lights up slowly. This is when he had his near-death experience. Okay.
We know that people have all kinds of weird things happen in just in a normal, you know,
falling asleep and waking up. These are called hypnopompic and hypnagogic hallucinations where
people, you know, they'll have just for a couple minutes, just a lot of weird things. Oh, I heard
this voice. I saw this thing, you know, sleep paralysis. We know about one to 3% of the population
has this experience where, you know, they're asleep in their bed. They're completely prone and out.
And then they wake up and they're having like a lucid dream in which they wake up and they feel
like they're paralyzed. They can't move. Well, in part, your brain stem shuts everything down
in that prone position such that so that you don't like fall out of the tree when you're,
when you wake up in the middle of the night, you know, so you're kind of paralyzed. You know,
wait, not technically paralyzed, but your muscles are super relaxed and you can't move in sleep
paralysis. They actually feel like they can't move. Like I'm awake and I can't move my body.
And they have the sense presence in the room. There's somebody else in here and it's frightening.
They're almost always this kind of amorphous, dark, evil looking figure that's very scary.
And so we know that, you know, they're asleep. It's just all happening in their head. There's
nobody in the room. And yet so the near death experience is something like that. It's, it's a
kind of internal hallucination sounds too cheap a word to use for a profound experience that people
have. But nevertheless, you know, the experience they're having is real, but it's in the head.
They're not going anywhere. That's my interpretation. Dr. Sherman, this is wonderful. Someone out
there struggling right now, they're afraid of letting go of God. They're afraid that they're
going to lose something like a best friend, so to speak. Can you give them some encouraging words
as we get to the close here? Well, first of all, you know, it's not my business to tell people
that they shouldn't believe in God, even though I've written quite a bit about this.
I'm really more just promoting science and reason and rationality. I don't think you
can justify belief in God through reason and rationality and science. I think it's not justified
belief. And the fear of giving it up is is not necessary. You know, millions of people have
given up religion, and they lead completely fulfilling happy lives. It's quite possible to
do so. I know I myself have done so, you've done so. And now millions of people are, you know,
the fastest growing religious group in America, so to speak, are the nuns, people that tick the
box for no religious affiliation. You know, they just give up religion. Well, what do they do?
They find other ways of leading a meaningful life. There are many, many ways, many paths to a
fulfilling life that don't have to go through religion. It's not to say that religion is always
bad or evil. It's not, you know, it does fulfill some things in society and people's
lives. I understand that, but it isn't necessary. So while it may feel like giving up a best friend,
well, in fact, there are other friends, you know, you can have meaningful activities and family and
causes that you believe in and goals that you work toward that are just as fulfilling. And I
don't know that there's no afterlife, but, you know, maybe there is nobody knows for sure.
And so if that's what you're thinking, then I would say this, it doesn't really matter whether
there's an afterlife or not, because we don't live in the afterlife. We live in the here and now.
We live in this life. So your goal should be to make the most of this life, whatever happens
afterwards. Maybe nothing happens. Maybe you go somewhere. And in any case, I can't imagine if
there is a God who is truly omniscient, omnipotent and omnipotent, benevolent, all good and loving,
that he could possibly punish somebody like me that's tried to understand, you know, what did I,
you know, in any case, why does a God need people to believe in him? I mean, that's such a human
characteristic, you know, he's jealous, jealous. I mean, I know people that have gotten over
jealousy. I mean, come on, that can't be a deified emotion. They can't be what God is like. So I'm
really not worried about it. And you shouldn't worry about it either. I recall you mentioned in
God, it's funny, because God actually smells the sacrifice in the Old Testament. And I thought,
how come the outside space and time, yet he smells this sweet aroma? Anyway, ladies and gentlemen,
make sure you go and check out his books. He's got a ton of them. All of these are on Amazon,
and you guys can go down in the description. Of course, he's got a lot of these books.
Also, he has a website. And on his website, you guys not only can see the books and its articles,
you can join the Skeptic Magazine. You stay on Twitter too. That's something people can follow
you on Twitter. And also, you have a podcast. So that's something they really, really need to
check out because you have some fascinating guests join you. Thank you. Yeah, absolutely. That's all
down in the description, ladies and gentlemen. All I could say is never forget. I know that
there's cognitive dissonance in the world. I experienced it. Dr. Schermer's experienced it,
but we are MythVision.
