Ladies and gentlemen, get the book Dr. Joshua Bowen wrote.
The atheist handbook to the Old Testament, it is extremely full of knowledge and information
for anyone.
As well as join the Patreon, there's hundreds of videos that have not released to the internet.
You can ask questions and I will record them with these scholars in high definition.
I do that all the time.
You can also personal message me and you help the community grow.
Thanks a lot.
Dr. Joshua Bowen, I was once a slave of Christ.
I came to understand the words in the New Testament when a bond servant of Jesus Christ,
a slave of the Lord, and in fact, I talked to some Muslims, for example, right?
And they say that they're servants of Allah, slaves of God.
They use similar language.
The biblical account, though, overall, especially looking in the Old Testament, we've talked
about this before, but I want to ask slavery, can we talk about its ugliness for a moment
and why atheists bring this up to Christians all the time?
Our good friend Jay Caballero, for example, he's like, no, I see it.
It's ugly.
It's real.
I'm not going to downplay it like Christian apologists do where they say, no, no such thing.
The Bible does not condone it.
That's not the case.
So we had an experience in America that has still haunts us today about the Anabellum
South slavery.
There's still, you know, it's still stuff that haunts us.
So can you compare biblical slavery to something like the South and was it that ugly or potentially
that ugly in the ancient world?
So I wrote a book on this a while back, I guess about a year ago.
Did the Old Testament endorse slavery and this book was mainly focused on comparing
the Hebrew Bible to the ancient Near East and the way that slavery is practiced and
how it was presented in the law collections, you know, in both the Hebrew Bible and the
ancient Near East.
In the new book, I have a chapter on slavery because it's a handbook on the Old Testament.
I thought it was a good idea to have something in there about slavery just because it comes
up so often.
But I didn't want it to be just repeating what was in the book in shorter form.
So I moved into the New Testament, the early church and the Anabellum South.
Now I have no expertise, formal training in slavery in the Anabellum South.
So I rely pretty heavily on Thomas Morris' book, Southern Slavery and the Law.
It's a book that I actually highly recommend for anybody that's interested in looking at
what slavery was like, what the slave laws were like in the Anabellum South as early
as following the Revolution, colonial periods, colonial periods and following the Revolution
and then coming into just before the Civil War.
So Thomas Morris, his goal is not to make that comparison.
He's just talking about what slave laws were like.
But the thing that always stood out to me in these slavery conversations is the first
thing that a Christian apologist will say is, well, let's just get it off the table.
It wasn't like slavery in the Anabellum South.
So you can just get rid of that idea.
They're not the same.
You hear that, I think, in every video that I see, every debate that I've ever had.
It's like the first thing that comes out.
And at first, my response was, who cares?
That's not the point.
The point isn't, is it exactly like slavery in the Anabellum South, which was unbelievably
horrific?
Any more than if we've got somebody on trial for it as a serial killer and he's gone around
and he's shot 10 people with a 45, killing them instantly.
The attorney, the defense attorney, hopefully doesn't stand up and the first thing he says
is, well, let's just get this off the table.
He's no Jeffrey Dahmer.
Right.
Well, okay.
So he didn't murder them as a serial killer in far more grotesque ways, but so what?
That doesn't, he's still a serial killer, right?
So if we're trying to understand what slavery was like, that's a weird thing.
That's a weird way to start out.
But again, it's to muddy the waters, poison the well in a sense.
However, I started thinking, well, how similar were they?
And one of the things that I find is that Christian apologists will often make the
comparison between slave, as slavery, as it was practiced in the sense of how it actually
played out in, like on the ground in the Anabellum South and the laws in the Hebrew Bible.
So comparing those two things, which is an unfair comparison, I think, if you're going
to do a comparison, you either have to, let me give an example.
If you go to something like Jeremiah 34 or Nehemiah five and you talk about, well, this
is what the Israelites did with slaves that kept their slaves and then longer than they
were supposed to and then recaptured them after they set them free when it became convenient
for them.
And the Bible apologists will very quickly say, whoa, whoa, whoa.
You can't judge the Bible and judge God's character based on what people did.
You have to do it based on the laws that he gives.
Well, I think the same holds true in reverse.
You can't go to what people did breaking the law in the Anabellum South and then compare
that to the laws in the Hebrew Bible.
So Thomas Morris goes to great lengths to try to show what the laws were like in the
Anabellum South.
And what's interesting about it is the laws themselves and the rationale, the legal rationale
that brought about these rulings is very similar to the legal rationale that you see in the
Hebrew Bible.
I think a good example of this is if you talk about Exodus 21, 20 to 21, where it says,
if a man beats his male or female slave with a wooden rod and they die immediately, then
they're to be the masters to be punished, which probably means killed.
However, if the slave survives a day or two, then he's not to be punished because he says
property.
What's going on in those verses is probably, you know, I think most scholars would say
the rationale here is that you have to be able to beat your slave.
If you read that people like Michael Fox or Bruce Walke or any of these people that write
on the book of Proverbs, you go to Proverbs 29, it's like, yeah, you have to be able to
beat your slave.
It's anticipated that you're going to, it's encouraged that you do corporal punishment
on your slave because how else do you motivate them?
That's the, that's the rationale.
They're there either for six years or they're as chattel slaves.
They're there forever.
So that there is no like early release that you can't like work really hard and get out
of, you know, early.
So what do you do?
How do you motivate them?
And it's the same thing, you know, with, like, you know, if somebody's, if somebody's
working for eight hours, uh, as opposed to, you know, they have to stack 50 boxes and
then they can go home.
Their motivation for going home is they get those 50 boxes stacked faster.
So they work harder, they move faster.
Well, if they have to be there for eight hours anyway, they're going to stack those
50 boxes as slow as they can.
Right.
Um, this is a run out the clock situation as Stanley would say in the office.
Um, and so the, the, the idea here is that, well, masters have to be able to beat their
slaves, but they can't abuse their slaves and they can't murder their slaves.
Makes sense.
Right.
I think that's a, if that's the balance that the text is trying to strike now, they
should just say there's, you shouldn't own people, but with what they're doing, that's,
that's their rationale.
And Christian apologizes to be very quick to say, see, see, look at what they're doing
and they're, they're trying to protect the humanity of the slave.
Yeah.
You can't kill them.
Yeah.
You can't kill them.
You can't abuse them.
Yeah.
Right.
You can't beat them though, but you can beat them, but abuse must be interpreted to
mean like taking an eye out or like, like permanent damage, that's right.
Think about it with your kids, right?
In the old test, in the Old Testament, that's not considered abuse.
You beat them with wooden rods.
That's not considered abuse in the Old Testament.
What's considered abuse is if you were to beat them for more than moderate correction,
right?
That's sort of the idea.
So the same is true with a slave.
Horrible, right?
From our modern vantage point.
And it should, we should see it as horrible from our modern perspective.
Shouldn't we clarify and say that probably the slaves getting a far worse beating than
just a child?
Wouldn't you think?
I mean, as far as the law is concerned, I think they probably see them as equal.
But, but you're absolutely right.
There is definitely a distinction shown between, in that particular proverb,
actually in Proverbs 29, 21, it says, a slave who has pampered from youth turns
out to be a son, right?
In other words, it like turns out to be spoil, insolent, you know, that sort of thing.
Um, so, right, there's definitely a distinction to be made.
Um, but that rationale is what's key, I think here.
And that is that masters have to be able to perform corporal punishment on their
slaves and their minds, uh, but they can't abuse them.
So how do we balance this?
Well, you set up a law like Exodus 21, 20 to 21.
If you beat them and they die, it's evidence that you were doing more than
moderate correction.
And if you knock out the eye of a tooth or high of a tooth, you knock out the eye
of a slave or the tooth of a slave, uh, then they're, they're set free for the
sake of that because that's a, that's a serious thing.
Okay.
What do we see in the laws in the antebellum South?
Well, if you read through what the judges are wrestling with, the wrestling
with exactly the same problem, how is it that a master can motivate his slave to
do what he wants him to do by a court, well, corporal punishments, what they're
going to do.
You got to be able to give them moderate correction, but we want to protect
the humanity of the slave surprisingly to be surprising to me and surprising
to other people, um, that the laws particularly leading up to the civil war,
uh, after the revolution, um, like these judges are saying no, no good
Christian master will abuse his slave and certainly no good Christian will
murder his slave.
Um, but slave is ultimately on the table.
Like there's no taking it off the table.
The Bible is for it.
Yes.
No question.
Right.
No question.
So they have that the Bible supporting them.
Whereas the guys were saying no to the whole thing.
They're the liberals.
Yeah, definitely.
There's no question.
Um, and, but, but the fact that the judges are, are coming to the same sort
of conclusion, the same sort of balance in their minds that you see in the
Hebrew Bible, what they say is, well, obviously you're allowed to moderately
correct your slave by beating them.
However, if it turns, if you abuse them, if you do more than moderate
correction, uh, or you murder them, then it's the law says these, these judges
are saying it's going to be the same punishment as if you killed a free white
person.
Now that's significant because the law is trying to do something that's very
similar, if not the same as what the law in the Hebrew Bible is trying to do.
You mean to tell me that slavery in the antebellum South wasn't that bad because
it's clear using the rationale of apologist that they would be killed for
killing these slaves.
They would be punished for doing such a thing.
Slavery wasn't that bad 300 years ago.
Dr. Josh, see, and this is what scares me.
This is what scares me because, you know, we, we hear if we don't remember the
past or doomed to repeat it, right?
That's the old adage.
And it scares me when I hear apologists saying, well, slavery in the Hebrew Bible
wasn't so bad because look, look, yeah, they could be sure they could beat them.
Yeah.
Okay.
They could beat them, but they couldn't abuse them and they couldn't murder them.
So it's just like a regular employee.
Yeah.
And, and, and, you know, think about it.
I mean, these slaves, you know, they were probably really, really poor.
And, and so this is better for them.
When you start to have these types of justifications for owning another person
as property, I get real nervous because it's the same sort of rationale in many
respects that we see in the antebellum South.
Even modern days, I'll say this just as we go, there are some white supremacist
groups that say the same thing, justifying what happened.
Yeah.
There's no justification for, for, I mean, it's ugly.
It is what it is.
It happened, but let's not justify it.
Let's call it what it is.
Yes.
And, and I want to be clear.
I'm in no way suggesting that Christian apologists, when they say slavery in the
Hebrew Bible wasn't so bad that they're knowingly like trying to justify slavery
in the antebellum South, but let's be clear.
They're not trying to do that.
I'm being silly with that connection to my point.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Absolutely.
Um, but I think it's important to, to point out that the logical conclusion, if
we go down that road, can lead people to justify that sort of behavior because
you come up with rationalizations.
Why is it, you know, well, how else are you going to motivate the slave?
Right.
You start making those types, asking those types of questions.
These are the types of answers that they came to 2,500 years ago, and it's the
same kind of rationalizations and answers that they came to 300 years ago.
So I guess my, my point is that what we see in the legal collections, there are
many places that there's continuity between them.
And what's dangerous about that is that we see what happened in the antebellum South.
Even though the law was intended to protect the slave, it created unintentionally
these huge loopholes for masters to abuse their slaves because how do you sure?
So the master says, okay, I can't abuse or murder my slave, but if he dies under
moderate correction, and that's what Exodus 21, 20 to 21 is doing.
If he dies under moderate correction, right, then the slave master isn't held
liable because, well, he's moderately correcting, which he has to be able to do.
And if he, if he dies after a couple of days as a result of that, well, the, the,
the benefit of the doubt is given to the master.
He was just moderately correcting them and something else intervened.
Right.
So if the slave dies in the antebellum South under moderate correction, well,
the slave owner is not held liable, right?
He has to be able to moderately correct him.
Well, how do you prove abuse?
Well, you mean you got to have somebody come and testify that he was abusing him
or the master has to volunteer and hired.
I was abusing him, punish me.
Right.
So how often is that going to happen?
How often is another slave owner going to come and say, yep, that guy was abusing
his slave, that guy murdered his slave, right?
Not that often.
And that's what we see on the ground.
It didn't happen all that often.
So we have these egregious stories about slaves being locked up,
neck chains and, and armed, you know, chains and, and left out in outhouses
to freeze to death and moderate correction, moderate correction, right?
Horrific stuff.
And that's what I think we all need to be very cautious about in these
discussions is to say, let's not whitewash the past.
Let's not try to make it seem better than it was, because once we get in that
mindset, it's just all too easy to go back down these paths that we've gone down
in the past and we've seen the horrific results.
We never want to go back to a time when we're owning people as property.
And that's why the United Nations has this, you know, they go, no slavery,
you can't do slave.
You can't sell yourself and have that contract enforced, right?
Because we know where that leads and we don't want to go back down that path.
I agree 100%.
I just would like to say they're doing it to defend God and the Bible.
And that's why they're doing it.
And they're not even realizing how groups that are obviously racist today.
That share that ideology would love for things to go back to the way they were
300 years ago type of idea.
They're also defending the Bible and God in their angle.
So what we're saying is, is I think some liberal thinking needs to take place in
the way that you approach these, these books and understand what really happened
or remain cognitive, you know, like having cognitive dissonance because,
but, but going out there acting like, oh, the Bible never like that's,
that's a lie at that point.
You're, you're not, you're being ignorant on the topic.
And so this is powerful.
Thank you.
Of course.
