The past 150 years of archaeology in the Near East have revolutionized our understanding
of the Bible and ancient Israelite culture.
We now know that several of the foundational myths in Genesis, particularly the creation
of the world and Noah's Ark, were predated by Sumerian, Assyrian, Babylonian, and Canaanite
versions of those same stories.
The parallels between the flood narrative of Genesis and the flood myths found in Eridu
Genesis, Atrahasis, and the Epic of Gogamesh are particularly striking, leaving no room
for doubt that the scribes who penned the Bible were indebted to the rich literary heritage
of ancient Mesopotamia.
Being near Eastern parallels to the story of the Garden of Eden, however, has always
been more difficult.
What ancient sources of inspiration lie behind this tale?
Did the so-called Yahwist writer invent the characters of Adam and Eve himself?
Or did he borrow them from earlier traditions?
And how did a snake manage to infiltrate the Holy Garden and upset God's plans?
In this documentary, we turn our sights to one of the Bible's most foundational stories
and its origins in the culture and literature of ancient Canaan and Mesopotamia.
The sacred garden, the tree of life, the creation of humans, and many other elements
of the Eden story have well-known antecedents in the myths and art of Israel's older neighbors.
What's more, according to a theory by Old Testament scholars, Mario Korpel and Johanna
C. DeMor, even the story of Adam and the serpent, has a direct precursor in an obscure text
from ancient Ugarit.
If correct, their theory would be a major step forward in tracing the beliefs and myth
that shaped the Bible.
At the time when Yahweh God made the earth and the heaven, there was at yet no wild bush
on the earth, nor had any wild plant yet sprung up, or Yahweh God had not sent rain on the
earth, nor was there any man to till the soil.
However, a flood was rising from the earth and watering all the surface of the soil.
Yahweh God planted a garden in Eden, which is in the east, and there he put the man he
had fashioned.
The ancient Sumerian myth of Inki and Ninhursag recounts a story about the ancient land of
Dilmun, before it was inhabited.
Virginal is Dilmun land, Pristine is Dilmun land.
In Dilmun, a raven was not yet culling.
A partridge not cackling, a lion did not yet slay, a wolf did not carry off lambs.
Nincicola set her father Inki, a city you gave, a city that has no river?
You gave me a city, a city that has no field, glee, or furrow?
Inki answered Nincicola, from the mouth of the running underground waters, fresh waters
shall run out of the ground for you.
At the beginning of the story, Dilmun is a parched desert devoid of plants and animals,
so the goddess of Dilmun, Nincicola, asks the High God Inki to supply water.
Inki hears her plea and causes springs of fresh water to appear on Dilmun, making it
inhabitable.
Inki also fertilizes the land with his semen so he can bring forth plants.
This is reminiscent of the opening verses of Genesis 2, in which the newly created land
is devoid of plants until a spring is produced to water the ground.
Yahweh then plants a garden in the east, causing the soil to bring forth trees of every kind.
Dilmun was apparently a real place, and most scholars believe it referred to the island
of Bahrain, which was home to a rich commercial civilization for thousands of years.
The myth of Inki and Ninhersog may have originated as an etiology for this wealthy kingdom and
its abundant freshwater springs.
However, in these texts, we also see the development of a mythical Dilmun, which is not the island
of Bahrain at all, but a mountain in the east where the sun rises.
Eridu Genesis, the Sumerian flood myth, states that the flood hero Ze Udsudra, the Sumerian
Noah, was taken there to enjoy eternal life.
Ze Udsudra, being king, stepped up before an on and inlil, kissing the ground.
And on and inlil, after honoring him, were granting him life like a god's, were making
lasting breath of life, like a god's descend into him.
That day, they made Ze Udsudra, preserver, as king, of the name of the small animals
and the seed of mankind.
Live toward the east over the mountains in Mount Dilmun.
The later Akkadian epic of Gilgamesh confirms that the flood hero is taken to live in a
mythical land beyond the mountains at the source of the Tigris and Euphrates rivers.
Even though the name Dilmun is no longer used to reach this land, Gilgamesh must accomplish
feats impossible for ordinary mortals, traveling beyond even where the sun rises to the very
edge of the world.
Could this Mount Dilmun be a precursor to the biblical Eden?
The scholarly position on this is complicated.
Some experts, like Dina Katz and Bernard Batot, argue that Dilmun is a weak parallel to the
Garden of Eden.
Batot says, there is no indication that humans, even primeval humans, ever lived there with
the lone exception of the divinized flood hero, an exception which proves the rule.
Arthur and Alina George, on the other hand, believe that several elements of the Eden
story have direct parallels in the Dilmun myth.
We do not argue that Jay specifically utilized or even knew of all the above mentioned Dilmun
myths when composing the Eden story, but it is apparent that these motifs existed throughout
the biblical world.
Much of it was archetypal.
It appears that Eden, like the mythical Dilmun, is also located on a mountain.
In Genesis 2, four rivers originate in Eden, the Peshon, the Gihan, the Tigris and the Euphrates.
The headwaters of rivers are usually found in mountains because rivers obviously flow
downhill.
Furthermore, Ezekiel 28, which preserves a separate and possibly earlier Eden myth, explicitly
refers to Eden as a garden on the holy mountain of God.
Corporal and Demore also argue in their book that it is logical to locate Eden near the
site where Noah's Ark was stranded in the mountains of Ararat.
Even if the Sumerian myth of Dilmun lies in the background of Eden, there might also
be parallels closer to home.
In the tablets of Ugeret, an important Canaanite city-state, predated the Israelites.
We find references to a sacred mountain with a vineyard where El, or Elu, the High God
of the Canaanite Pantheon, resided.
And Yahweh Elohim made to grow out of the ground all trees pleasant to look at and good
for food, and the tree of life in the middle of the garden, and the tree of knowing good
and evil.
The tree of life motif is well known from Mesopotamian art, Assyrian reliefs in cylinder
sills, frequently show a sacred tree, typically a date palm, being guarded by Apkelus, or
hybrid birdmen.
According to Helga S. Kwambig, the Assyrian tree of life represented the divine world
order maintained by the king.
Sacred trees were also a common aspect of religious life in ancient Canaan.
Its rural religious activity took place at sanctuaries called Bamot, or high places,
which are mentioned frequently in the Bible.
These were typically situated near prominent trees on hills or high ground.
Eating the fruit of a sacred tree was a direct way of experiencing the divine.
Instead of Genesis, sacred trees are often associated with the goddess Ashura, who also
went by the name Elat, the feminine version of El.
The historical books of the Old Testament imply that Ashura veneration was practiced
in Judah, and even at the Jerusalem Temple, without interruption, until the reforms of
Hezekiah and Josiah.
Historical finds from various sites in Judah and Israel confirm her popularity and her
association with a sacred tree.
It was also the case in Anatolian and Syrian art that the storm god Haddad often carried
a tree or a tree branch, and this became a divine symbol of the god's fertility, as
the one who caused the rains by which the earth's plants and trees were nourished.
Over time, the sacred tree by itself came to represent Haddad.
Another version of the Tree of Life that is surely connected to the Eden story comes from
Greek mythology.
According to numerous Greek authors, there were several nymphs called the Hesperides,
who tended a garden at the western edge of the world.
This garden belonged to the goddess Hera, and contained a sacred tree that produced
magical fruit made of gold.
To prevent the Hesperides from picking the fruit themselves, Hera placed a multi-headed
serpent named Ladin.
The name Ladin almost certainly comes from Lotan, the seven-headed chaos serpent of Canaanite,
Syrian, and Hittite tradition.
This serpent appears in numerous ancient Bible passages as Leviathan, a multi-headed sea
dragon vanquished by Yahweh at creation.
Exactly how all these dots connect, however, is difficult to determine.
Did the Yahwes author know both the Canaanite sacred garden tradition and the Greek Hesperides
tradition?
Or did both the Israelites and the Greeks inherit the garden, tree, fruit, and serpent
motifs from a near-eastern source?
These questions remain unanswered for now, but we will have more to say about the serpent
further on.
What is distinctive about most examples of sacred gardens and trees is their link to
the earth goddess.
The Eden story, however, was written by scribes of a religion that venerated primarily Yahweh,
and as such, it features no goddess.
Nevertheless, aspects of the earlier goddess mythology might still remain as we shall see.
Despite the ubiquitous appearance of divine trees with a variety of symbolic meanings
in the ancient Near East, one of the biggest challenges in finding a direct predecessor
for the Eden story is the unique function of the two trees, the tree of life, which
confers immortality, and the tree of knowledge, which, as its name implies, confers knowledge.
However, other well-known myths provide a suitable background for these elements.
The ancient Mesopotamian myth of Adapa tells a story in which Adapa, the king of Eridu,
is brought before the court of heaven and offered the food and drink of the gods which
will make him immortal.
The god Ea, however, uses trickery to convince Adapa to refuse the offer and remain Ea's
mortal servant on earth.
The main innovation required by the Yahweh's author was to combine the idea of a sacred
fruit-bearing tree with the idea that the food of the gods granted immortality in those
who ate it.
Similarly, the tree of knowledge from which Eve eats is reminiscent of Pandora's so-called
box, actually a jar.
Like Eve, Pandora was the first woman to be created in Greek mythology.
And like Eve, Pandora brought sorrow and calamity into the world by opening the forbidden
jar.
The tree of knowledge, in a sense, is just Pandora's jar in another form.
Yahweh Elohim formed the human of dust from the ground and breathed into his nose life's
breath and the human became a living being.
The creation of humans from dirt or clay is not unique to Genesis.
It is a ubiquitous idea found throughout the Mediterranean and the Near East, an ancient
myth called Incianenma, which is known from both Sumerian and Akkadian tablets, describes
how after the creation of the world, the lesser gods tire of their toil and say they need
laborers to do their work for them.
So Inci gives Nama, the mother goddess, instructions for mixing clay with his blood to create humans.
A similar story is told in Atrahasis, the Akkadian creation and flood epic.
This story also begins with the lesser gods complaining about the toil of farming.
So Inci instructs the mother goddess to create humans from clay, mixed with the blood of
a slain god and saliva from the other gods.
Herosis, the Babylonian historiographer of the Hellenistic period, similarly described
the creation of humans from dirt and the blood of a slain god.
This god, Kingu, took off his own head and the other gods gathered up the blood which
flowed from it and mixed the blood with earth and formed men.
For this reason, men are intelligent and have a share of divine wisdom.
The Greeks adopted the same myth, Prometheus is said to have formed men out of clay while
the goddess Athena breathed life into them.
The logic in such stories seems to be that human-shaped figurine can be created from
clay or inanimate matter, but some essence of the gods, blood, in many cases, is needed
to give it life.
In the Genesis story, the breath of Yahweh accomplishes this.
Interestingly, when we consider the parallels between how Yahweh and Prometheus created
the first man and how both Eve and Pandora were responsible for unleashing misfortune
on the world through their curiosity, it might be this Greek myth that is closest to
the Eden story.
Historian Jan Bremer acknowledges these parallels in his book, Greek Religion and Culture, the
Bible and the Ancient Near East, but he suggests that both the Greeks and the Hebrews were
drawing on Near Eastern myth.
In an article for the website Mythology Matters, historian author George argues that the Serpent
of Eden is adapted from the West Semitic myth of the Chaos Dragon Lothan or Leviathan.
He believes the Serpent represents the Chaos in Eve's heart.
Yahweh's eventual punishment of the Serpent represents a mini-version of the Dragon Combat
motif.
Other scholars see a connection with the Serpent and the Epic of Gilgamesh.
In this famous and wildly popular Babylonian text, Gilgamesh visits the Paradise of Dilmun
at the edge of the world.
To ask the flood hero Utnapishtim about the secret to immortality, Utnapishtim reveals
the existence of a magical plant in the sea that can grant immortality, but after Gilgamesh
acquires it, a snake steals the plant and eats it, whereupon it sloths off its skin.
This ability of snakes, by the way, was one of the reasons they were associated with immortality
by the ancients.
Thus, a snake prevents Gilgamesh from eating the plant of life and living forever.
It's not hard to find close points of similarity between the Gilgamesh story and Eden.
There is no Adam and Eve, but the parallels to the Tree of Life and the crafty Serpent
are obvious.
Corporal and Amor acknowledge the Gilgamesh Epic and its importance for understanding the
Garden of Eden story.
However, they believe that the closest predecessor to the biblical story can be found in two
obscure tablets from Ugarit, known as KTU-1-100 and KTU-1-107.
Their view has not been widely accepted in academia, at least not yet.
But regardless of whether or not they are correct, these tablets are interesting in
their own right and may challenge how we understand the Eden story.
KTU-1-100 is more or less fully intact but very difficult to interpret.
KTU-1-107 is highly fragmentary and, not surprisingly, also hard to make sense of.
The two tablets, which were found together in the ruins of Ugarit, are understood to
be related and possibly even part of the same text.
KTU-1-100 is sometimes overlooked as a mere incantation for snakebites.
But according to Ugaritic expert Gregoriel Del Almo Lete, it is actually a canonical
mythical text about magic and the power of incantation.
It begins with an appeal from an unnamed goddess, described as the daughter of Shapsu and the
daughter of sky and deep to the high god El, originally pronounced Elu in Ugaritic, who
lives at the fountainhead of the two rivers, at the confluence of the two floods.
The rivers are undoubtedly the Tigris and Euphrates, and the two floods are probably
the cosmic waters of heaven and the deep, which meet at the edge of the world.
Elu's location sounds much like both Eden and Dilman in these details.
The emergency is that a serpent has invaded the land and bitten someone or something.
The goddess systematically calls upon one Canaanite deity after another, Baal, Dagan,
Annat, Reshef, and so on, asking for their help to come and destroy this serpent and
expel the poison.
None of the gods and goddesses is able or willing to do so.
Finally, she asks Haranu for help.
Perhaps you haven't heard of Haranu.
Most people haven't.
He was a god of the underworld, but he wasn't well-liked at Ugarit and did not receive sacrifices
there.
Other texts tell us that he was the chief of demons, and perhaps serpents.
Thus, he could not only control them to punish people, but he could also protect people from
them.
Despite his negative aspects, Haranu was venerated at various sites across Canaan, and two cities
in the Israelite heartland, Upper Beth-Haran and Lower Beth-Haran, were named after him.
Presumably because a sanctuary to Haranu was located there.
He was also known in Egypt, where he was often conflated with Horus and represented as a
falcon.
So, Haranu comes to the aid of the goddess.
He travels to the Tigris River and uproots some kind of tree of death.
In doing so, he makes the venom of the serpent disappear, saving the garden.
This is followed by a wedding ceremony in which Haranu gives the goddess serpents as
a dowry.
What's going on in this strange myth is far from obvious.
Corporal and Demor believe that Haranu is the god of serpents, and therefore the one
originally responsible for the serpent attack in the garden.
This they say is what is meant by a line that says, Haranu came to the goddess's aid
because he, she, would be bereaved of his, her offspring.
With the implied subject being Haranu, other interpreters think it is the goddess whose
offspring is in jeopardy.
The role of the tree is similarly disputed.
Corporal and Demor think it is the tree of life which has been turned into a tree of
death by the serpent's venom and must be removed by Haranu.
Corporal and Demor think Haranu is simply using a tree branch as a magic wand to nullify
the serpent's venom.
Every aspect of this myth is debated, but there is another important Eden parallel we'll
come back to.
The second tablet of interest, KTU-1-107, appears to take place in the vineyard of the
gods, which is undoubtedly the Ugaritic equivalent of Eden.
In the opening lines, which are highly fragmentary, a character named Adamu appears and is seemingly
attacked by a serpent.
At least that's how Corporal and Demor interpret the text.
A bit later on, the serpent's victim is referred to by the name Sharuga Zizu, as he is overcome
by poison.
He calls out to Shapsu, the sun goddess.
After a long lacuna in the text, Shapsu summons Haranu to come and bind the serpent.
Haranu appears to dispel the poison, while Shapsu removes a malevolent fog that has covered
the mountains.
The ending is too damaged to know what happens to Adamu and Sharuga Zizu.
It's easy to see what drew Corporal and Demor to this tablet.
We have an Edenic vineyard of the gods, an attack by a serpent, and most importantly,
a character named Adamu, which is equivalent to the Hebrew name Adam.
These two authors further argue that Adamu here is a divine man sent to the sacred vineyard
to save the Tree of Life from the serpent and prevent the poisoning of the world.
They even believe they have identified several cylinder seals from Cyprus, showing a three-headed
serpent attacking Adamu.
Unfortunately, it is difficult to get many to agree with their interpretation, since the
surviving fragments of KTU1107 do not mention a tree or explain what Adamu's role in the
story is.
Nevertheless, the appearance of the name Adamu in a story about the divine garden and a serpent
is interesting.
Who is this Adamu?
Is there any reason to think he or she is actually connected to the Biblical atom?
Ancient texts from Ugarit, Ebla, Anatolia, and even Egypt make occasional reference
to a mysterious deity named Adama, or Adamu.
The exact spelling varies.
In some of these earlier texts, Adama is clearly a goddess and the consort of Rachef, the god
of the underworld.
Later, however, in Anatolia and Ugarit, Adamu is usually paired with the goddess Kupaba,
who eventually becomes Sibli, the mother goddess of the Phrygians.
Whether this version of Adamu at Ugarit is male, female, or even adrogenous is unclear.
Although there are a number of theories about the origins of Adamu, the dominant view, according
to Franz van Kappen and Carol van der Thorn, and their article for the dictionary of deities
and demons in the Bible, is that the name means soil or earth, and would have been fitting
for a goddess associated with the underworld.
Furthermore, Francesco Espesi, an expert in Semitic linguistics, believes that the Hebrew
word Adam, which also happens to mean soil or earth, is in fact a demythologized version
of the goddess Adamu.
Just as the name of the Syro Canaanite god Rachef often appears in the Bible as a term
for plague and destruction.
This means that even if Corpel and Demor are mistaken about KTU 117 as a direct predecessor
of the Eden story, the ancient Syro Canaanite earth deity Adama might still be lurking
in the background of the Eden story, and the first man, whose name Adam, represents the
Hebrew words for both man and soil.
And as we've already seen, earth-mother goddesses are a frequent element of Near Eastern creation
stories involving the forming of humans from clay, Eve, whose name simply means life, would
correspond to the mother goddess Kubapa or Sibley in the Eden story, albeit in humanized
form.
Those of us raised on the Bible and Christian theology are so used to thinking of the Eden
story in terms of human sin, human weakness, and human failure, that we rarely notice where
the real failure of this story lies.
If we revisit Genesis chapters 2 and 3, without these theological preconceptions, the story
is a rather startling admission of the limitations of the creator himself.
Yahweh has planted a wondrous garden but needs someone to till it so he forms a creature
from clay.
To make it come alive, he must breathe his own breath into it, but the newly created
man is lonely, which Yahweh has failed to anticipate.
Yahweh tries to solve the problem by creating the animals, but these prove inadequate.
Yahweh finally creates a suitable companion in the form of Eve.
Yahweh's failure does not end there, however, for a crafty serpent infiltrates the divine
garden and tricks Eve into eating the forbidden fruit.
It is Eve's own God-given human nature that makes her curious about the fruit and susceptible
to the serpent's influence.
The dominoes continue to fall, as Adam also eats the fruit, and Yahweh's entire plan
for a man to till his garden is completely ruined.
Left with no means to remedy the situation, Yahweh banishes the humans from his garden.
If the story of Eden is about anything at all, surely it is about how even the plans
of a God can go horribly wrong.
Not everything is under the control of the divine.
Reframed in this manner, the Ugaritic myth on the tablet KTU-1100 is in fact remarkably
similar.
According to the aforementioned Ugaritic scholar Del Almo Lete, this text is a myth
about magic.
It means to show that at the dawn of creation, magic existed as something outside the powers
of the gods who created and ruled the earth.
Those gods were powerless to protect the land against evil creatures, and when a serpent
came and poisoned the garden, they could do nothing to stop it.
Only Haranu, an underworld deity with no sacrificial cult or place in the Pantheon,
knew the proper magical incantations to dispel the serpent and its poison.
It is the same with the Ugaritic story of Baal and his fight against the sea dragon Lotan.
Lotan is not part of Elu's creation.
He exists as part of the primordial chaos that is outside of the created order.
Leviathan, the biblical chaos serpent, fought by Yahweh in many places like Psalm 74, Psalm
89, and Isaiah 27 is no different.
He is a primordial power that exists outside of Yahweh's will and that opposes Yahweh's
created order.
The serpent in the Garden of Eden also represents that same primordial power, a chaotic threat
present at the beginning of history that Yahweh himself was unable to stop.
Even the tree of life that Yahweh planted in the garden was able to produce effects
against Yahweh's will as Del Amolete puts it.
The main difference between Israelite and Ugaritic theology lies in how this ancient
conflict was resolved.
In KTU 1100, Heranu marries the sky goddess and gives her serpents as wedding gifts, thus
uniting heaven with the underworld and bringing this primeval magic, this second power, under
the control of the gods.
The Israelite solution, on the other hand, was to reject the practice of magic.
Del Amolete summarizes,
In any case, it is clear that the primitive two-power system is incorporated more or less
in the religious conception, in Ugarit by accepting an independent magical power, in
Israel by rejecting it.
Yet for centuries, it remained active in religious praxis and was ingrained in Israel's conception
of origins and of the resulting ethical world.
The origin and persistence of evil is affirmed through the assumption of a primordial agent
system that cannot be easily reduced to a unique divine protagonist.
In the final analysis, the search for a perfect near-eastern parallel to the Garden of Eden
story still eludes us.
The theory of corporal and demor that the tablets of Ugarit preserve a direct predecessor
to this tale is intriguing but must be viewed with skepticism, unless a more complete version
of the text can be found.
Even so, practically every element of the story has well-established predecessors in
the myths of the nations that surrounded Israel.
And Adam himself has a plausible origin in Adama, the Earth Goddess.
The version of Genesis we possess today, however, was written centuries or even millennia later
than the earliest myths about primeval Dylan, the creation of humans from clay, the tree
of life, and hostile serpents.
The preference for a single national god over the traditional pantheon of Canaan ideas necessitated
a new approach to the older myths.
And yet, those myths never went away completely.
The deeper we investigate the stories of the Bible, the more we are reminded of that fact.
