Make sure you know very well on the terms of like Osiris or of Addis. Make sure you know very
well what those worshipers were really doing. Just think of a final example. Part of the ritual
of becoming a priest of Addis was you take a pot shirt, a broken piece of a clay pot that's
sharpened at the end and you cut off your own testicles. And you know, why would someone be
motivated to do that? They are looking for some eschatological reward, some pie in the sky.
Welcome back to Mythition Podcast. You want to know about the mysteries while I have
your man. Dr. M. David Lytla joining us again today. How are you Dr. Lytla?
Great. It's summer here in Australia. Long winter's over. Good to see you. Good to see you too. We
recorded an online course, college course, college material with the most up to date
details of material when it comes to the ancient Greek mysteries. And I had you join,
you get to teach a broader audience. It's not just behind the university doors that we're getting
this out. It's going to be to a public audience who has the opportunity to have their hands on
top notch scholarly material. So I want first, before we dive into this, to let everybody know,
go support your academics. Support the academics that you care about. Dr. Lytla has been working
his butt off, not only starting a social media platform of YouTube, which we're going to point
out in a second, but he also has a Patreon and I'll say why. He works very difficult in what he
does, always producing new content, constantly reading and writing. And he's also a teacher,
so he's having to make sure his students are doing what they're supposed to do. And when he can,
if you're on his Patreon, he can also communicate with you. This is a way where you can have a
scholar in your pocket, so to speak. And of course, he gives away his first book to those who join
in a certain tier. And the books like Academic Press, we're talking well over a hundred dollars
for the book. You're getting something in return. You're not just giving somebody something for
nothing. And you have access to be able to message him. And when he's available,
he'll be able to respond back with questions and answers and all that great stuff.
Build your relationship with the scholar. Also, if you join at somewhere on the higher tiers,
where's it at? God and beyond God? Yeah, you are a God. Yeah. I think tier three or four, yeah.
You join in one of these high ones. He's got like the evil creator, which is phenomenal. He's got a
couple other books signed. He'll sign them and he will send them to you. So go help him out. Let's
get him some growth. Also, let's join his Patreon. Let's get him well over a thousand subs. There's
no reason someone like Dr. Lit was hiding under a lamp. What is that? A lamp stand? The Bible says,
don't leave your candle under a lamp stand. Something like that. You got to let his light
shine forth. Let's subscribe to his YouTube channel. What is so special right now? You
launched your whole Found Christianity series, right? Yeah. So I mean, I've decided to really
make academic scholarship free to the public in this YouTube channel. So the entire Found
Christianity's course, which was formally on the Patreon, is now on YouTube. So that's free for
anybody to take the course. So as you're going through the book, you can go through each of the
lectures in the course. It's basically 20, 30 minutes of pop for the lectures. You can really
soak that in. Or you can view the lectures to just see if you want to buy the book. And so that's
always available. You'll see all the facts and data in the book and in the footnotes,
but you can use the lectures as an intro. And yeah, I've also got starting to put up more
on the Evil Creator book, and I have a book review series that I'm working on. So yeah,
subscribe. Let me know what you think. Subscribe, hit the bell, get notified, let's help Litwa
get past a thousand subs. Also, he has books on Amazon. So for some reason, you just need to
copy, go get a copy. But I'm telling you, if I didn't already have some of these works, okay,
because I've already purchased them, I would become a Patreon, one of the top tiers to be
able to ask him questions about the book I'm about to read. And if I have maybe some type of a
contention or an issue or a problem or an academic criticism of something he says,
he can respond to you. There's a way to communicate and you're not just reading the book,
you're getting a signed copy of it and response. So Dr. Litwa, we got the course right here,
the Ancient Greek Mystery Colts. And we did this before I moved, and here it is now. We've
finally been sitting on a golden egg and it's now about to hatch limited time pricing right now. So
get it while it's still at this price and it is going to change. So we hope you jump on,
you're helping Litwa, you're helping us, and you're helping yourself learn about the history
and up to date scholarship. This is our lectures, lectures one through seven. And if you don't mind,
can you tease us with this? Tease us a little bit about why this course is important,
especially when it comes to like Christianity or New Testament studies, since most of my audience
probably were Christians or are Christians. Yeah, definitely. So I mean, there's a difference
between a YouTube video and a full academic sort of college level course where you're reading books
and you're going through the material and you're going in depth. And so the course, it isn't a
teaser. It's exactly what I would give to college students. Okay. And it includes the material that
I've already given to college students, frankly. So it's a full blown course. Okay. You don't have
to go, you know, pay $20,000 to your local university. Okay. You pay a very reasonable price. You get
seven full lectures. And as Derek is showing you lots and lots of thanks to him and Ryan,
his wife, lots and lots of good pictures and bullet points and other kinds of
helpers and aids. And also for further reading, you can use the Patreon then, if you want,
to follow up with me in terms of questions regarding the course so that I can continue to be your
teacher as it is. And there's obviously there's lots more to read. So if you're looking for more
to read, that's great. My most important, you know, piece of advice to everybody is don't be
satisfied with the random YouTube video or the Wikipedia entries on the mysteries. Go and really
invest in learning what these are. If you have this interest and you're really interested in,
you know, the origins of Christianity, is it mystical? In what, if so, in what way, how is
Jesus like or unlike some of these Greco-Roman deities? We're not doing parallelomania here.
We're really trying to, we're really trying to, I mean, I'm really interested in the Greco-Roman
stuff. Yes. Thank you. And so this isn't about, you know, prioritizing Christianity and saying like,
oh, you know, who's who's like Jesus? You know, I mean, that's not the point of the course. The
point of the course is to say, you know, this was what was out there before Christianity was even a
religion. So it's an opportunity for you to take off your sort of Christianity hat or your apologetic
hat or maybe anti-apologetic hat and just say, hey, what was going on when Christianity was
getting kickstarted? And, you know, where can I learn more about the vibrant Greco-Roman religions
that were going on right when Christianity sort of was at its foundations? And that's
really what this is about. I hope that all of you will learn so much and only deepen your curiosity
for exploring this really, really fun, fun topic. I think you're right. I mean, for me,
there's been something of a balance that I've been taking over the years while learning from you and
others is, you know, there are apologists, there are counter-apologists. And when you get caught up
in that too much, you lose track of the meaning and the understanding oftentimes of what we're
trying to learn about. It's like, if all you're doing is trying to learn about these things in
using them in anti-apologetics, you know, rhetoric or as a tool, you could, potentially you could,
but there's much more to gain from understanding what really is going on. Why did the ancients
think this way? There's a lot of fun stuff to learn about it too that kind of makes it exciting
in the Greco-Roman world and your work in Jesus Deus and how the Gospels became history, all of
your books, they really excite me in knowing how did others also write their stories and why did
they do them and how did their cultic practices relate to their literature and things like that,
which this course goes into. I really hope that people will get ahold of this, check it out,
learn about the ancient mysteries, and join your Patreon too to do a follow-up harassment of Dr.
Litwak, because you have a lot of insight. I mean, you've literally wrote the hermetica too,
if I'm not mistaken, it was the second one. You're all aware of this material.
Yeah, definitely. Yeah, and I apologize, that book is so ridiculous expensive. We're expecting a
paperback down the road, but yeah, the hermetica is one of the mystery cult movements that I deal
within the course, so if you're wanting that in context, hop on there. I give full introduction
to what I mean by mystery cult. We go into the Samothration, great gods. We go into the Eleusinian
mysteries. We do Isis and Osiris. We do, obviously, the Corpus hermetica and the mysteries of Dionysus
and Orphic mysteries, and my personal favorite, the mysteries of Addison and Civilly. So I've got
all the major popular mystery cults on offer, and in the final lecture is the main comparison with
Christianity, in which we look at both similarities and differences between Jesus as a deity and the
Christian, early Christian story, and a bit about early Christian ritual and how that was
structurally similar, maybe emotively similar as well to your experience in another mystery cult.
You know, keep in mind, like some Christians were also initiated into mystery cults. Tation
says that he was initiated into mystery cults. A lot of people think that Clement of Alexandria
was initiated into mystery cults, and so that what they bring to the table, this is all one world.
It's all one global metropolis of the Mediterranean, and these religions, they are
mixing and matching, essentially, and in the great marketplace of ideas. That's the thing
that hasn't changed with modernity. We're still playing that game of mixing and matching,
and then sometimes we also play the game of saying, you know, we're different,
yeah, therefore we're better, and then some other people play the game of, no, you're the same,
therefore you're worse, but the game that we want to play here is, you know, who's saying what?
And, you know, this could be the foundation of your spiritual quest, but it's not meant to be,
but however you use the course, you want to base your, I don't know, your spirituality or your
non-spirituality on the most rigorous of all possible approaches, and that's what this course
is about. And I think Derek and MythVision for making real academic work available to the common
person who has never taken a course in religion and theology, this is your chance.
Yeah, this is your chance. Dr. Litwa, can I ask one simple question? Then we have to let you go,
and I hope people will sign up. Is there possibly a single thread, a very important single thread
that goes through all of these mystery cults and potentially even into Christianity? I know
there are comparisons and there are differences, but is it fair to say in all of these cults,
mortality or salvation is like a single thread that seems to go through all of them?
I don't think that we, I don't think that salvation is the thread. What I'm worried
about there is that, again, we sort of let our Christian upbringing kind of determine
what the other mystery cults are saying. It is true that death and mortality is a major theme,
and there is definitely salvific elements. But yeah, it's difficult, I would say, frankly,
it's difficult to say exactly what a common core would be. And what I would really encourage people
to do is just sort of read these cults on their own terms. And, you know,
there must have been a reason why thousands, if not millions of people,
got initiated into these mystery cults. And perhaps, you know, they learned the secrets for
very, very ordinary reasons. That is, they just wanted to build community. And when you're sharing
a secret with a group, you've got an instant community because you're united by the secret
that you keep, right? And so some of these, you know, promised a blessed afterlife, but some didn't.
And that's something that we have to take into account. They all gave benefits. But not all
those benefits were of the sort of the Christian flavor of like the forgiveness of sins or
an eternal paradise after you die. That's not really what this was about, in my opinion.
But others, obviously, you know, they want to say that, you know, mystery cults are like the
preparation for Christianity or their Christianity is borrowing its eschatology from mystery
cults. And I think before you make those kinds of comparisons, or you proclaim those kinds of
conclusions, make sure you know very well on the terms of like Osiris or of Addis, make sure you
know very well what those worshipers were really doing. Just to give a final example, part of the
ritual of becoming a priest of Addis was you take a pot shirt, a broken piece of a clay pot that's
sharpened at the end, and you cut off your own testicles. And, you know, why would someone be
motivated to do that? Are they are they looking for some eschatological reward, some pie in the sky?
Why do that? And really, the great thing about these mysteries is you get to understand why
religious people, both past and present, do sometimes crazy things, and they do they do so
joyfully. And understanding their mentality is part of the thrill of really going in depth in
this material. Well, if you want to learn how others cut their testicle, seriously, though,
check out the course. I can't recommend it enough. It's been a blast, of course, engaging thanks to
my wonderful wife in terms of putting this stuff together, and you taking all of your time and
energy to come and teach and giving others out there who will never be able to visit you at
university, will never be able to get to sit in your classroom and learn from you. Yes, they can
actually. Here's an opportunity and a way to do so. And it's not just that they're listening to you,
you can also see, like, for example, right here, visuals, you're actually being taught. Now, you
can't hear it, but directly taught from Dr. Litwa, and you're seeing the visuals as we go along.
And there's a lot of stuff to learn looking at the maps, imagining where it would have been at in
the region. Get signed up today. The link is down in the description. And we also pinned it as one
of the comments down below this video. Dr. Litwa, thank you for giving us the mysteries. And I hope
that you enjoy the rest of your day. Thanks. The secrets out there just have to open it,
but you have to be of clean mind and pure heart. There you go. And you can purify your mind and
your heart by joining his Patreon. Dr. Litwa, thank you so much for your time. I really appreciate it.
Sure thing.
