Be sure to check out MythVisionPodcast.com.
Help MythVision grow, guys.
Become a Patreon member.
You guys will get early access to all of my videos when I'm done editing them.
Also, it's a small community where you guys can message me your questions and talk to
me in private.
You guys can donate also through PayPal, join our social media links down in the description.
We have Twitter and Facebook groups.
Help the community of MythVision grow.
Don't forget to subscribe to this channel, hit that bell button so you're notified every
time I do a live stream.
And you don't miss any of my content.
Like this video and comment your thoughts below because I want to know what you think
about all of these things.
Dr. Price.
We had a donation from Dan Everson and he says, question for Dr. Price.
What are the odds that Christianity started as a Greek theatrical production, perhaps
in a place like Antioch or Damascus?
Love your channel, Mr. Lambert.
Thank you so much, Dan Everson.
Well, it's one of those things where it's plausible, though not necessarily probable,
and those are the terms in which you're putting it, one of the chances.
There's a book called something like, I got this wrong in the draft review of this book
and I can no longer tell which is what I thought the title was and which is the actual one.
Mark's Two Gospels or something like that.
And in a minute it'll probably hit me as to the author's name.
She knows all about ancient theaters and drama and she makes the case that Mark wrote the
whole thing in a different form, a script, for I think it was Julia Domna, Domitian's
sister.
And that this was performed in a theater built for the occasion in Rome.
And she shows you how different scenes would have been plotted out on what part of the
structure of an ancient theater and she shows diagrams of what they were like and so on.
And she says, not everything Mark relates in his gospel, which is like a kind of novelized
version of this to keep it available even though it was only a one-time show for the
birthday of this woman and that she played the anointing woman of Bethany, which is admittedly
all speculation, but it's a fascinating plausible guess and she says the stuff that they couldn't
really have depicted on stage probably couldn't have been in the play, but was added to the
novelistic version of it.
And so there was a shorter drama enacted one time and then it was worked into this story.
This isn't the first time people, somebody has said that it was, Mark's Gospel contains
a play that was performed.
A similar theory was advanced about the book of Revelation, that the basis of that was
a stage drama.
Of course, what that ought to be is a Toho Studios movie similar to one they actually
did called Yamato Takiru, which is based on Shinto epics and has plenty of giant monsters,
which is of course why Toho wanted to do it.
It is fantastic.
It's amazing to see.
And these people could easily do a Toho version with live action, Leviathans and so on.
Oh, how much I would love to see that.
Forget about the plot and forget about making it into a believable story.
Just say, okay, on the assumption that John saw this stuff as he says, probably didn't.
It's a literary device.
What did he see?
Let's film it.
I would love to see that.
Well, she is saying that her last name is Oder, O-D-E-R, like O-R in German.
Think of her first name.
I have a review of this in the Journal of Higher Criticism, an issue or so ago.
By the way, I would plead with everybody to get a copy of any issue of the journal which
you can order on Amazon.
In fact, that's the only way you can get it.
Just look up Journal of Higher Criticism and it will show you several different issues
and then you can expand the cover, which has a table of contents and see if you're interested
in anything in there.
I guarantee you will be.
Anyhow, this says, I think Bishop Spong argued that I think the Luke and Nativity story was
originally a Christmas play.
Like this have been, I think maybe Benjamin Smith, one of the great mythists, had a version
of this theory, that it was originally a play that was an allegory for the fall of Jerusalem
and so on.
There's interesting possibilities, but no one has approached it like Oder did.
What she knows and brings to bear on it, it is really thought-provoking.
It makes me wonder because, I mean, it does seem kind of like that kind of story.
It has like a birth, noble birth, a low noble birth that develops into like any other story,
but it could seem that this was like a play.
It does sound like it could be a play.
Mark, especially because it isn't packed on with all the other detail, that it could
cover the basics of doing an actual play.
What are the odds, though, in your mind that this is that?
I mean, I know that you entertain all ideas, but for you personally, do you find that it's
found wanting?
There's not enough evidence to suggest that that is what's going on here?
Well there's not enough evidence to establish it.
It's a possibility, but there's a possible latent circularity in the theory that, well,
this and that and the other thing couldn't have been staged, so that must have been added
later.
Well, the more of that you bring in, you're saying, Mark, as we read it, doesn't sound
like a play, and you're cutting out the evidence that doesn't fit.
Everybody has to do that.
The construction of any interpretive paradigm has to leave out anomalous data.
You can't construe everything together necessarily.
That's the brakes.
That's probably inevitable, but something like this strikes me as possible and plausible,
but not all that probable, just because it is purely speculative.
It's not hair-brained speculation, though.
I don't want to make it sound that way.
Could be.
Hmm.
Interesting.
It's something to look into.
Did it become a play at some point, in particular, like did the church later on do any plays with
it?
Oh, I'm sure they have, because we're still doing that with Jesus' movies.
And with Jesus Christ Superstar, that is a play, really, that is just translated more
easily into a movie, but it was just a studio album, and then it was a Broadway play performed,
and that's got a lot of gospel material in it, though it's based on John, not Mark.
But yeah, it makes sense.
They've been doing it.
I'm sure there were medieval miracle plays.
The Oberammergau passion play is an example of this, though it's just the end of the
gospel.
So it's not far-fetched.
It's just one among so many possibilities that it suffers in the numbers, the odds, but
not because it's crazy.
What about the 12 scenes of the passion, if you will, that you go to a Roman Catholic
church?
Right.
Yeah, that's almost a script for a play.
Right.
Makes me kind of think.
It's interesting.
Thank you, Dr. Bob.
