This is the account of the division of the days of the law and the testimony for annual
observance according to their weeks of years and their jubilees throughout all the years
of the world, just as the Lord told it to Moses on Mount Sinai when he went up to receive
the tablets of the law and the commandment by the word of the Lord, as he said to him,
come up to the top of the mountain.
As far as we can tell there, they've been carbonated to sometime between 150 and 1 BC.
The most shocking thing, the most amazing thing about jubilees I think for most people
is just the fact that we have a text that radically re-envisions the Torah, re-envisions
Genesis in the first century BC.
So there's definitely a concept of the stories behind Genesis being important, but there
is no concept of that they're so holy in their textual form that they have to remain
that way because the author of jubilees can go in and say, nope, the calendar was wrong,
the patriarchs did things right, all the laws were on a heavenly tablet that you've never
heard about and everything else can be crafted and changed and fixed in certain ways without
it being a problem.
We are MythVision, welcome back to MythVision podcast.
Today we're dealing with a book of jubilees with an expert on the topic Dr. Matthew Munger.
How are you my friend?
I'm good, thanks Derek.
Thank you.
I definitely appreciate you on that as well as coming on today for those who don't know
who you are.
I'm going to give you guys this background.
Matthew Munger is the associate professor of Near Eastern Languages and Literatures at
MF Norwegian School of Theology, Religion and Society in Oslo, Norway.
He has a BA in Theology as well as a BA in Linguistics and an MA in Semetic Philology.
He was awarded his PhD in 2018 for a dissertation on the Dead Sea Scrolls manuscripts of the
book of jubilees, which we're discussing today.
Dr. Munger's research covers a variety of subjects related to the Dead Sea Scrolls and
the reception history of Jewish and Christian literature.
He has also published a Norwegian translation of the West African Fulani epic tale Kaidara.
And I look forward to seeing what we have today just to tease people.
It's going to get heavy.
We're doing a presentation.
I'm going to want to do a follow up live episode with you on MythVision so you get to ask your
questions and get them answered by Dr. Munger.
Thank you for joining us.
All right.
Thanks a lot for having me, Derek.
I've been looking forward to doing this.
Yeah.
So again, thanks a lot for bringing me on the show, Derek.
I do really enjoy a lot of what you've done and feel honored to be in that kind of group
of people that have gotten to be on your show actually.
You've got like, I think some of the people you've had on are such high quality scholars
that it could be like a reading list for anyone interested in trying to do a PhD in
religion or the Bible or something like that.
So there's a great place to do stuff.
So I want to talk about the book of Jubilees.
I'm going to...
So I did my PhD on Jubilees and the reason I got interested in Jubilees was actually
because of working with Semitic Philology.
I started out studying theology and when I'd taken the biblical languages, I kind of felt
like a lot of questions didn't get answered very well in class, like there was kind of
UK.
You just kind of have to accept it.
So I decided to do a degree in linguistics and then follow that up with a degree in Semitic
Philology where I had to learn, of course, a ton of Semitic languages.
And when I was working with Ethiopic, I was talking to one of the professors of Old Testament
here at MF in Oslo and she said, oh, well, you should just...
You should read Jubilees.
Like, that's the best book you can read.
That's so cool because Jubilees is only known in its complete text through Ethiopic, okay?
And that's like the cool thing about Jubilees is that Jubilees is a text that we do have
evidence of in a bunch of different languages, a bunch of contexts, but it's only survived
in Ethiopic in its entirety.
And it's a text that we've known about for a long time.
So scholars have known about it for a really long time, but didn't have access to it actually
the whole time.
So in literature, when you read about the book of Jubilees, so there's like the Ethiopic
version of it is what you're basically referring to.
And in Ethiopic, it's called the Matzchafar kufale, which basically means the book of
the divisions.
So it's about the divisions of time.
And in the book of Jubilees, we'll get back to this, is the division of time is into the
years of Jubilees, which is like every seven times seven years, so every 49 years.
But Jubilees was known to scholars long before they these manuscripts of Jubilees were discovered
in the 1850s, 1840s, 1850s in Ethiopia, like a missionary actually brought it back to Germany
and gave it to a professor who read it and was like, dude, this is the book we've been
looking for.
Because throughout like Byzantine literature, so Greek literature from the, say, up to the
1213 hundreds, we have these world histories, these universal histories and chronographies
that are written that cite a book called heleptogenesis or leptogenesis, which means little genesis
or the little genesis or the details of Genesis or something like that.
But it's a quote or it's a text that's quoted just again and again and again in Greek literature.
And there are some collections of quotes that seem to have just been passed around.
And so the leptogenesis was known by scholars long before the book showed up.
And in the course of the 1850s, 1860s, some German scholars basically just like read the
book in Ethiopic and then looked at these citations in Greek and were like, oh, that's
the thing.
Like, that's the that's the book we're talking about.
And so it has like this long tradition in Europe of being something that was known by
like some of the early church fathers Epiphanius knows about knows about Jubilees and uses
it Jerome knows about Jubilees and uses it.
It's like so it's a book that's been that's been known among the Christian Christian Greek
writers, but disappeared from basically everywhere except Ethiopia.
And in Ethiopia, it's actually part of the Bible in the Ethiopic Orthodox Church.
They seem to be pretty consistent in terms of holding on to stuff that like like Enoch
one Enoch, you know, I'm pretty proud of the Ethiopian church for hanging on to this stuff
because this stuff is rooted in the New Testament, for example, but but also keeping these traditions
alive.
It's pretty cool.
Yeah.
I mean, and this is the this is the really amazing thing is the way Ethiopia has been
in a way isolated from from a lot of the rest of Christianity, but has then kept these
traditions that were rooted out and burned or whatever they were that they were kind
of discredited from the from the Christian church or from also in Jewish circles that
they just lost their authoritative nature, their importance, their legitimacy.
And so they weren't circulated anymore.
But in Ethiopia, they were still copied and circulated and read up to up to today.
So it's a it's a it's a great story.
So but Jubilees is even cooler because of the fact that this book that was known through
Ethiopic and these Greek citations was found to be present in a ridiculous number of fragments
from the Dead Sea Scrolls.
And so I mean, so when I say a ridiculous number of fragments, it's kind of like it's
so it's a it's a it's going a bit far.
But we we have like 15, 16, 17 different manuscripts that that retain text from Jubilees found
among the Dead Sea Scrolls.
And that puts it on line with with with the most copies of biblical books, like there's
like Genesis and Isaiah have more in the Psalms have more.
But but after that, it's basically it's Jubilees.
So it shows that it's a it's a religious text that is very highly valued in the environment
of the Dead Sea Scrolls.
So whether we want to call it the you know, the sectarians or the Yahad or the whatever
we want to call that group, they they did value this text very highly.
But as I said, it it's basically the the textual history of what we know about Jubilees
starts with knowing the entire book in Ethiopic.
This what's on the screen now is Gundugunde 162.
So it's a it's a picture of one of the oldest manuscripts of of the of Jubilees.
And the textual history of Jubilees in Ethiopic goes back to the 1300s sometime.
So that's what we can that's what we have of manuscripts.
We don't have older manuscripts than that.
So anytime we're talking about Jubilees, we're talking about this.
You have 13th century and later 14th century and later text in Ethiopic.
But then we do also have a slightly earlier or actually a lot earlier text
that is very incomplete, found in a Latin polympsist manuscript.
So a polympsist is a manuscript where where some Jubilees was written on this manuscript.
And then another text was written on top.
So it was erased and another text was written on it.
I always pronounced that polympsist, but you know, I'm horrible about pronunciation.
So I can be wrong too, man.
I guess we I don't know.
Somebody will correct this, I'm sure.
I actually the reason why I called it that is in Islamic research,
there's actually early Quran manuscripts that we or or if you will,
I don't know if it's like the skin of an animal,
but you could tell that they like try to scrape off the previous Quran.
It was like a primitive version and they called the lower text Palimpsest
is how I always heard them say it.
But Polympsist Palimpsest, it's the same thing.
Yeah, whatever.
Yeah, but this is this is that.
Yeah, so it's the same thing.
I mean, it's this is also on on parchment.
Yeah, on parchment.
So it's it's it's animal skins that have been erased and scraped and washed.
But using technology, you can see what's underneath, right?
And so there's this great project that's been over the past few years
led by Todd Hannigan, who who's basically re-imaged everything.
This was discovered in the 1850s that this
Palimpsest was there, Palimpsest, whatever we want to call it.
I screw it up.
I don't know what to say.
This manuscript had text from Jubilees, but it doesn't have it all.
I mean, we don't have all of it, but it has a good portion of it.
And we can read it and kind of see that in the fourth or fifth century,
there was a pretty similar text to what we have in the Ethiopic.
So it's just it's just not the whole thing.
But then in the 1940s, 1950s, the Dead Sea Scrolls were found.
And there we found, not we, I wasn't there, but the guys who found them
put together, you know, these kind of like what we say,
15, 16, 17, 18 manuscripts that had text from Jubilees.
And the oldest of them probably dates to around the turn of the
of the first century B.C.
So like about 100 B.C. sometime in there, like that's there.
So they're that old.
They they have actually even been carbon dated.
That's one of the things I kind of found when I was playing with them
in the in the laboratory was that there was notes that they had been carbon dated.
And and as far as we can tell, they're they've been carbon dated
to sometime between 150 and one B.C.
So it doesn't help us a whole lot.
But they're ancient.
So these manuscripts contain, you know, maybe like one percent of the text,
as you can see from this picture, like there's there's not a lot to work on.
And we're going to come back to that because that's what really came to be
the focus of my of my research was how how do we get basically
from the Hebrew text to the Ethiopic text?
And what assumptions have scholars made in trying to reconstruct what's what's under there?
So and then, of course, there's all these citations in Greek, which are really fun.
And so this is just a Greek manuscript of George Sinkelus's
chronology, which is a kind of a good one of the earliest
good chronograph chronographical universal histories that uses jubilees
like all over the place.
So we have all these different sources to the text, but we're still we're
reliant on late Ethiopic manuscripts, basically, to know what jubilee says.
Yeah, we'll get back to a little bit of that stuff later.
But so for those who never have read jubilees and never will,
like basically that like the highlights are that jubilees is an alternate
alternate version of Genesis, plus the beginning of Exodus.
So it's it's situated on Sinai.
The whole thing basically happens on Sinai.
One of the times Moses goes up the mountain.
And and I mean, so and I'm sort of Derek, I'm sure you've played this game, too.
And you go through and you read in Exodus, like how many times does Moses go up
and how many times does he come down and while I mean, like, I don't know.
I think I think there's like, it depends on who you ask, but there's
like, you know, seven or 17 or whatever times he goes up and down and up and down.
And he doesn't go down enough times compared to how many times he goes up.
But but one of these times is definitely the time, according to jubilees,
that an angel visits him and kind of gives him a new version of Genesis.
And this story that is narrated by this angel of the presence, as he's called,
who who shows up talks to Moses on Sinai and then says, here is the revelation
that that you need and then gives him this whole story.
And this really plays into the the conception of the Torah
in its entirety, having been given on Sinai.
Right. This idea that Moses wrote the whole Torah, then he would have obviously
had to learn about those things in the past also while he was getting the law
and all this stuff about the future.
So there's this kind of it plays on this idea that that there was the one
this was one law, one Torah was given.
And then we have this other one that that Moses also gets.
The the biggest thing, like the biggest structural thing you'll see
when you read jubilees is that jubilees uses a completely different calendar
and really wants you to know about the calendar.
So everything is dated, everything is put into a solar calendar first.
So that it's the 364 day calendar is what's used in jubilees
so that every single holiday will always fall on the same weekday.
And this is important because there are sometimes when a holiday
and preparations for a holiday could fall on a Sabbath.
And and so like if you have so if you know some of the Old Testament law,
there's things like on the day before Easter,
you need to go and slaughter this lamb and paint your doors and do all this stuff
because that's what they did in Egypt.
And then but how can you slaughter that lamb if that happens to fall in the Sabbath?
Right. And this becomes a question in later rabbinic Judaism as well.
But the like jubilees tries to kind of answer this by making sure
that you never get those kind of collisions because they have a nice solar calendar.
And then in addition to the solar calendar, it counts everything in numbers of jubilees,
so numbers of years of jubilees.
And the years of jubilees are part of Levitical law where like every every seven years,
all things are pardoned and and you know, slaves are set free and all that kind of stuff.
And then every 49 years or 50 years, so every year of jubilees in the in the Old Testament,
then like land is reverted to its owner and you have these kind of
like this major celebration of of putting everything back where it where it belongs.
And so like it's supposed to make sure there's no debt to no slavery and no all that kind of stuff.
But what happens in the book of jubilees is that that becomes the chronology
from creation for everything.
So everything is dated according to which jubilee it happens in.
So we're going to we're going to look at some examples of that too.
And then something that's also very fun that jubilees does is it recasts all the patriarchs
as following Mosaic law.
So all the like all the times the patriarchs do something that has to do
with something legal jubilees comments on that, especially.
And this is kind of making sure that like making sure Noah sacrifices the right things
in the right way when he gets off the Ark or
establish and basically establishing the patriarchs as priests.
So so that we have this kind of idea that they knew about the priestly laws ahead of time
so that they weren't doing sinful things.
There are so many questions that I have in my head already and like interesting
side rabbit trails in all of these things that you just pop these bullet points.
So I just I don't even think it's fair for me to even ask any questions.
Who won't we won't get any further.
Make make note of some of that stuff and see if I answer any of it through the
through the next few slides and then just I mean, we can talk as much as you want.
Just keep throwing it at me.
And the final thing, which is very fun and which is kind of enlightening for us who
work with ancient Jewish and Christian texts is the fact that it includes a lot
of rewritten or alternate narratives for what happens in Genesis.
So like when we talk about jubilees being a rewriting of Genesis,
like it's it's not just grouping things together in a slightly different way.
Like it radically transforms some of the narratives and brings in other sources.
So we have some inocic material, like some of the stuff from first Enoch is in
jubilees as well.
So it's using other sources, but like the some of the things that jubilees doesn't
like, it just takes out some of the things that where the patriarchs do
something stupid jubilees writes it in a different way so that they actually
you know, sound like they're doing things in a better way.
So we've got like a whole series of different narratives that you just
don't have in other Jewish texts.
So and I think it an idea of how the book functions.
We can look at the prologue, which we call it the prologue.
It's just the beginning of jubilees, which reads like this.
This is the account of the division of the days of the law and the testimony for
annual observance, according to their weeks of years and their jubilees
throughout all the years of the world, just as the Lord told it to Moses on
Mount Sinai, when he went up to receive the tablets of the law and the
commandment by the word of the Lord, as he said to him, come up to the top of the
mountain. Now, this serves two functions basically in jubilees.
One is that it introduces the book and tells us what's coming.
So this is about the days of the divisions and it gives us the chronology
and all that stuff, but it also makes the reader kind of associate this.
So a really knowledgeable reader will associate this with Exodus 24,
where the Lord says to Moses, come up to me on the mountain and wait there
that I may give you the tablets of stone with the law and the commandment,
which I have written for their instruction.
Right. And this is one of those kind of key things that jubilees is definitely
playing on a kind of a gap or a hole in the narrative or a place in the narrative
where the author can say, yeah, so there is a time because Moses was up there
once and he got some laws and then the Lord said to him, come up again and
here's the story about what happened then.
And so it's like kind of using this exegetical technique of finding a place
in the story where you can just kind of jump in and give it something new.
And this is like this is a very typical thing that happens throughout jubilees
that you have like little exegetical tags that will bring you in
to the stories from the Torah.
The basic outline after this is chapters two to four in jubilees
are creation and Adam's stories.
Then you have some Noah's stories, you have a bunch of Abraham's stories.
And then there's this really long thing about Abraham's death where it's like
all the predictions and all the there's some, you know, some kind of apocalyptic stuff.
And there's just a bunch of questions about about what's happening with Abraham
right there. And then Jacob shows up on the scene kind of earlier
than you get him in Genesis.
And then by the end, then it's stories about Moses.
So jubilees covers all the way through the Exodus.
But the Exodus is like really compact in jubilees compared to what you get
in the book of Exodus.
And so but it is there.
And when one of the fun things about about the story is that when you get
to Moses, the angel who's narrating this whole thing starts talking to Moses
in the second person, right?
So it starts saying like, yeah.
And so when I led you through the desert, and when I when you were sent
to Pharaoh to do the things, and so it's like it's really like systematically
made to make it a conversation between this angel and Moses,
which would also give the reader the idea that this is actually an authentic
account from the time of Moses himself, so that they are like, oh,
this is this is authentic.
That Moses himself is having a conversation with the angel.
Read it. You know what I mean?
Yeah. Yeah. I mean, it definitely keeps the keeps that.
I don't know what word like the that kind of believability of it or something like
it's it seems legitimate because because the angel was speaking directly
to Moses, that who is supposed to be writing this thing down.
And so I keeps that kind of transmission idea of transmission alive.
So I want to do a couple of texts in the Torah and in and in jubilee just
to illustrate some of these things that are happening.
One is definitely my favorite is the jubilee's creation account.
And we don't have time to go through all of it, but we can just look at
how it transforms Genesis one.
So the first day is basically what we're looking at.
So in the beginning, God created heavens and earth is Genesis.
The earth was without form and void and darkness was over the face, the deep
and the spirit of God was hovering over the face of the waters.
And God said, let there be light and there was light.
And God said that there saw that the light was good and God separated the light
from the darkness and God called the light day and the darkness he called night.
And there was evening those morning, the first day.
So the author of jubilee's reads this and is in wants to rewrite what happens
in creation and and sees a few problems in this text already, because there
are some things that had to have been created then that aren't created and
some things which are mentioned, but aren't mentioned as having been created.
So jubilee's basically adds a whole lot of stuff to the creation story on the first day.
So I'm going to I'm going to break this down.
I'm not going to read it all at once.
I'm going to break it down into parts so we can see the connections to other stuff.
So jubilee's to so the creation story starts out like this.
For on the first day, he created the heavens, which are above and the earth
and the waters and all the spirits which minister before him.
Now, already here, the author is taking stuff that's written in Genesis one
and making it like visible, visibly created.
And so we have like the heavens, right?
So that's good. And the being God created heavens and the earth.
So we all know that that's fine.
But then like there's a problem is that we read that his spirit was over
the face of the waters, but there's no comment in Genesis one about creating the waters, right?
And so jubilee says, don't worry, he created the waters, right?
And then we have this in the spirit of God, what on earth is that?
And so in jubilee's, this becomes the spirits, not the spirit.
And so then that is basically what are the angels?
So the angels and the spirits of God had to have been created on the first day.
And so this is this is actually a discussion in a lot of different Jewish texts
in the in the Second Temple period.
And even in early rabbinic Judaism, there's a question of what day were the were the angels created on?
And so for jubilee's, like they make it very clear that they were created on the first day.
And and this probably has to do with the fact that they are mentioned in Psalm 104.
I think as as worshiping God at the creation and also in Job 38, the same thing happens.
Like there's this and the and the angels bowed down that when I when I set the pillars of the earth,
there's something like that.
And so like that becomes a motivation for having them there.
But then this really cool thing happens, you get this list of types of angels.
Right. And so it's the angels.
And so he created and all the waters and all the spirits which minister before him,
the angels of the presence, the angels of sanctification, angels of the spirit of fire,
angels of the spirit of the winds, angels of the spirit of clouds and darkness and snow
and hail and frost, the angels of resoundings and thunder and lightning,
and the angels of the spirits of cold and heat and winter and springtime and harvest and summer
and all the spirits of his creatures, which are in heaven and on earth.
And so it's just like there's this massive list of angels and spirits that that the author felt
in like he had to explain existed.
And we look at it.
I mean, like some of them, it's just like so some of them are taken directly out of the Bible.
So like the angels of the presence, this is mentioned in in Isaiah.
So that's where the with the name, the angel of the presence comes from.
And so and he's the narrator, so he's already there.
So he's of course, he's got to mention himself in the in the thing.
And then angels of sanctification, that's probably mentioned in the Bible or plays
on a thing from Ezekiel, but that's not a big deal.
But then we get to angels of things that we don't understand is the category
that I that I basically put them into.
So it's like the angels of fire because fire is alive and scary or whatever.
And then it's something that we we need angels, the spirits of the winds,
winds are definitely something that that, you know, wind, where does it come from?
And where does it go?
Nobody knows, you know, that whole thing, clouds and darkness
and snow and hail and frost and thunder and lightning and all these things
that you basically will go today would say these are natural and natural phenomenon.
Like this is this we know basically about darkness and snow and hail and frost.
So we know we know these things.
And but in, you know, for jubilees, these are anthropomorphicized
or angelomorphicized or whatever you want to call it as and so they're depicted
as as being angels or spirits that control these things.
And then we also get the like the seasons.
So the winter and springtime and harvest and summer is also kind of saying these
are also natural things part of the part of the year that just are controlled by something.
Some of these things we probably have an exegetical link to the Bible.
So Psalm 148 has a lot of similarities with the jubilees creation story.
And verse sevens does say, I praise the Lord from the earth, the great sea creatures
and all the deeps, fire, hail, snow and mist, stormy wind, fulfilling his word.
So like this is probably part of the of the formation of jubilees chapter two that that
there's, but I think there's probably some more steps before it gets there.
But if this is kind of one of the exegetical tags.
But then when you look at, you know, look at this list, again, there are so many things
that just show us that the author is interested in explaining the natural with the supernatural
or the unexplainable with the supernatural.
And so I think that's just like shows part of what's going on here in jubilees.
But again, some of these things do show up.
So the abysses and the darkness, the evening and night, the light and the dawn,
this is how the text continues that.
So God, he creates the heavens and the earth, he creates the waters,
he creates the darkness and the deep, and then he creates all these angels.
But then Genesis one still has these things that are unexplained, right?
Because there was darkness over the face of the deep.
So we get that, we get the abysses and the darkness in jubilees two.
And then God says, let there be light.
Okay, finally we get to what we think was made on day one, light.
Okay, we get that in jubilees two.
But then after light is created on, on day one in the Hebrew Bible,
there's evening and there's morning.
And we have like this whole evening thing that jubilees two says,
well, that had to been created too.
So then God must have created evening and night and dawn and daylight in addition to that.
And, and so, like, by the end of it, we've covered like every word in Genesis one,
plus a whole lot of other random stuff.
And, and then the author of jubilees then counts this up and says,
oh, God made seven things on the first day.
Like, there's a lot of, I mean, I guess you throw all the angels into one,
and you say that that darkness is both the evening and night and light is both the dawn
and the daylight.
And I mean, you can, you play with it to make it work.
But like for, for the author, this was seven.
But it was more important that they get to 22 in the end,
because the number of things made in creation was supposed to be 22.
And that's what jubilees figures out.
That's 22 and 22 is this, this magic number in jubilees.
It's the, the number of the number of the letters of the alphabet,
the number of books of the Hebrew Bible.
It's just like this kind of a, yeah, hallelujah number.
So the next story, just another story that illustrates jubilees,
like all this crazy stuff that's happening is the story of the first murder, right?
So Cain and Abel, we probably know it from Genesis.
But when we, so basically what happens, Cain and Abel make sacrifices to God
and God likes Abel's better than Cain's.
And so Cain kills Abel.
That's, I mean, that's the gist of the Genesis story.
Now, when we read it in jubilees, it starts like completely different.
So it starts like this.
And in the third week, in the second jubilee, she bore Cain.
And in the fourth, she bore Abel.
And in the fifth, she bore Awan, his daughter.
So already here, we get a bunch of things that you don't get in the Bible.
So first is this jubilees, the jubilees chronology,
using the weeks of years and the jubilees.
So a week of years is seven years, and a jubilee is 49 years.
And so like to get to the number from creation, then you have to count like 49.
And then you've had two complete cycles.
So that's what up to 63 or something.
And so it's like the third week then.
So sometime between 64 and 70, after creation, Cain was born.
And then the next set of seven, so between 71 and 77 or whatever, Abel is born.
And the week after that, in years, Awan, the daughter is born.
And here, we definitely get some information that you don't get in Genesis,
the name of the daughter of Adam and Eve.
And this is, that's what I'm focused on right now in my research actually.
So we'll talk about this a bit more.
But these names, like every generation between Adam and Abraham is given,
daughters are given names.
So you have, well, it's not the daughters, it's actually the wives usually.
But here in Genesis, the jubilees story about Adam and Eve, we get the daughter's names.
And then everywhere else is like the name of the wife of the patriarch.
And so this becomes a big thing.
But it's again, it's filling in some of that information that you just don't have when you
read Genesis, right?
Because you're going, you read Genesis and you're like, who did they marry?
Like, it doesn't, like when we got Abel, we got Seth, who did they marry?
And jubilees says, we know who they married actually.
It was Awan and Azura.
So we've got their names.
And gives you like, basically where they belong in the chronology, they show up.
It also speaks, I would suspect, because the practice was prevalent in different ancient
Near Eastern sister wives and, you know, really, you know, genetically, right?
Just kind of for those who really believe this stuff, literally,
it just shows you jubilees author does not know the genetics and understanding what kind of
hiccup this would ultimately have created, which is fine.
I mean, it's an ancient, you know, tale of origin stories and how to explain it.
But it tells you he is not aware of the generational reproductive consequences of
Awan and her sister marrying, you know, the sons of their same parents.
So anyway.
And I mean, and this is this is obviously this is a problem that is known,
kind of, because there are Levitical laws against incest.
So you're not supposed to marry your your sister.
But this is a massive problem in antiquity for, yeah, for basically anyone who's trying
to reconstruct the world is coming from two people.
Right.
And so, yeah, I mean, we can talk about this another time probably because there's so many
cool stories about how basically they have like, so there has to be sets of twins.
And that's kind of the the interpretation that that most interpreters end up with in antiquity
is that obviously they were born as sets of twins.
And so then like the laws and the genetics, all that applies like in the first few generations,
basically just to your own twin, that would be a problem.
But but then if you marry outside your twin partner, then you're good.
But Jubilees is definitely not saying that.
And so that's actually one of the really interesting things is that in Jubilees,
you can't interpret this as saying that Cain and Abel switch twins.
But we do have that in the in the Syriac Book of the Cave of Treasures,
which also kind of gives some stories about the first daughters there.
There's actually the story where where Cain and Abel, well, Cain goes to Adam and says,
I think my twin is prettier, so I'm going to go ahead and sleep with her.
And and Adam's like, what you disgusting person, go to the Cave of Treasures and make a sacrifice
to God, both of you bad boys, because you can't do incest, this is a horrible thing.
And so they get to do it. And that is the sacrifice that God rejects of Cain.
And then he goes out and kills his brother, but not because of a sacrifice,
but because he wants a sister. Oh, there's so many neat little mythological
like add-ons and stories to explain these things.
I love learning this stuff. It just like I said, you know, I I mean,
there's degrees in which you're showing, which I love, but it's like there's people still at that
basic one on one fundamental that can't even get past this little hiccup without apologetic after
apologetic after. And it's like, come on, like they didn't know maybe or maybe they didn't care.
Maybe they thought, well, we were close to the beginning. There's even people who talk about
that our genetics were far more pure than and you can get away with it. And then over time,
you know, so it's just one excuse after another to try and make it true.
But when you stop trying to play that game, it's so much fun.
Yeah, exactly. And it's it's like, and if you just say, okay, they're just stories, man.
Like, yeah, stories. And then like, it's and then it becomes almost like fan fiction.
Yeah. But you're like, wait, how did this happen? Like, dude, I've got a great story about that.
And then like, I mean, you just like, you see how like things grow and spread and it's, you know,
and if that's it, then it's fun. If it becomes like your explanation for life, then it becomes a
bit tricky. Right. So, yeah, that's just the, that's the Genesis story. So jump past that. So
it's basically what happens in the Jubilee's version of the stories, it then gives a very
easy summary of what happens. But then after, after the murder, and God basically curses,
curses Cain, then it says, and therefore it is written in the heavenly tablets cursed as one
who strikes his fellow with malice. And all who have seen and heard shall say so be it.
And the man who saw it and did not report it shall be cursed like him. And therefore,
when we come before the God, the Lord our God, we will make known all of the sins which occur in
heaven and earth, which are in the light or in the darkness or in any place. So there's like,
this is a, this is an awesome text because there's so much weird stuff, right? So first of all, we
get introduced to this idea that there are these heavenly tablets, right? There's, there is a copy
of the law up there in heaven, which the angel can narrate from or can or knows about at least. And
these things are basically, so when Cain kills Abel, it has to be related to an eternal law.
It's always been illegal to kill or illegal or wrong or whatever we want to call it. It's always
been against the law to kill. And it's, it's been written there. They're the heavenly tablets. So
what can you do? You can't argue with that. And so we get, and throughout Jubilees, the angel will
break into the narrative occasionally and say, by the way, this is written on the eternal
heavenly tablets. So it just, it is like that. And sometimes it's when the patriarch does something
that they definitely want to be established as an eternal law. And sometimes it's used to explain
why the patriarch is doing something different than you would expect or would have known from
Genesis or things like that. So it's like all these situations where it's just like, yeah,
this is on the eternal tablets. So, so yeah, it's good. It was a law before Sinai. It was,
it's always been a law. I also noticed that like, this is another way of explaining how like anything
you do is going to be known because in Cain's, in the Genesis initial, the blood tells on,
on Cain or on, yeah, on Cain. Abel's blood told me what you did. Whereas in this, it sounds like,
you know, like the heavenly tablets are telling on you. They, everything in heaven is watching
and knows what you're doing. And if you are watching this and you see it happen, you're going
to be cursed with them. So it already is creating this like guilt conscious. You can't get away
with anything. Don't think that the law, you can hide from the law kind of thing.
Yeah. And, and I mean, that's, that's, that's a really great point. And, and it's really
interesting when we see this thing, like when, when we come before the Lord our God,
we will make known, right? And this is an angel talking. So it's an angel saying that there are
angels watching over your shoulder to report your good and bad deeds, right? Does that sound
familiar to you, Derek? Yes. Yeah. So like, I mean, both the eternal tablets, the heavenly
version of the holy book that on the law and all that, and this idea of this, there's angels
watching over to report your, your deeds that happen. Like this is, this is, this could have
been straight out of the Quran, right? I mean, so, so there's a really strong parallel between
some of these ideas of angels and what they do and the heavenly books and things like that,
that we see between Jubilees and the Quran. Thank you. So basically, yeah, I just, I just like
that picture. So I brought it back up again. The other story I wanted to talk about is the,
is the sacrifice of Isaac in Jubilees. And this, I mean, so basically, people probably know this
one, this is a story where Abraham gets told by God to take his son and take him up on the mountain
and sacrifice him. And, and Abraham says, okay, and they go. And when he gets up on the mountain,
he prepares the, you know, prepares the sacrifice. And, and Isaac says, where's the lamb? And Abraham
says, Oh, God will provide the lamb. And then he ties him up. And he's about to slaughter his son
and set him on fire. And then the angel calls out, no, no, don't do it. And, and then there's a ram
stuck in the bushes or something like that. And, and so, and this is a story that's, you know,
told very differently, depending on whether you're in a Jewish Christian or Muslim context, where
in, in obviously, in Islam, it's not Isaac, it's Mohammed, I'm not Ma, sorry, I smell. Yeah.
Who's the, who's the son? And this makes it very different. But like, even in Christian and Jewish
circles, like, there's a discussion about whether or not, you know, Isaac was old or young, like,
is Isaac a grown man? When this takes place? Is he like willfully going along and sacrificing
himself? Or, you know, what's the, what's the moral of the story is Abraham's obedience is Isaac's,
you know, what's the, what's the big deal? But Jubilees doesn't like this story,
but it's so important that it has to be there. And so what Jubilees has done is recast it to make
it so God's not just like looking for bad stuff. And so Jubilees looks like this, and it came to
pass in the seventh week in the first year in the first month in that Jubilee on the 12th of that
month. Oh God. Yeah. The words came in heaven concerning Abraham, that he was faithful in
everything which was told him and he loved the Lord and was faithful in all affliction.
And Prince Mastema came and he said before God, behold, Abraham loves Isaac his son,
and he is more pleased with him than everything. Tell him to offer him as a burnt offering
upon the altar, and you will see whether he will do this thing, and you will know whether he is
faithful in everything in which you test him. So Mastema is the, the devil de jour, like the
the devil of the times in Jubilees. So basically, and like, I know you've done some, I think you've
done some videos on the development of Satan and stuff like that. And so like Satan has this
development where it goes from basically being a word like a deceiver or something like that,
where in some texts that there was a deceiver to being like this anthropomorphized being that
does deceiving and then like all this bad stuff happens around them. And Mastema is basically
kind of the same thing. So Mastema is the, the Jubilees bad demon guy. So there is one place
at least where another demon, bad demon guy, Belial is also mentioned. And, but I think that's
I think that's a textual thing that, so we don't have to worry about that. But so Mastema is also
mentioned in other Dead Sea Scrolls and is like, is known from antiquity. But he's basically the
devil, he's the prince of the demons in Jubilees. And here, like, you might have already made the
association to the story that I'm going to bring up next, because this reminds us a lot of something
we see in the book of Job. Exactly what I was thinking. Yep. So in the book of Job,
just for those of you that don't know it, basically the exact same story happens,
but explains why God punishes Job or let's bad things happen to Job. So it begins like this,
now there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the Lord and Satan
was also among them, or the deceiver maybe was among them. And the Lord said to Satan,
from where have you come? And Satan answered the Lord and said, from going to and fro on the earth
and for walking up and down on it. And the Lord said to Satan, have you considered my servant
Job? There's none like him on all the earth. There's blameless and upright man. If he has
God turns away from evil. And Satan says, Oh, does Job fear God for no reason? Have you not
put a hedge around him in his house? And I bless them and blah, blah, blah. But take, but if you
stretch out your hand and touch all that he has, he will curse you to your face. And then,
and then God says, Okay, give it a go. I do your best. And that like is the premise for the whole
book of Job, where basically Job loses everything. And then, and then he argues with his friends
about whose fault it is. But when we, when we look at this Jubilee story, it is, it is framing
this like horrible thing that could be asked of Abraham, who is supposed to be the hero of
the religion. And it frames it as God actually having faith in Abraham, right? Like it turns the
whole thing around. It's not God saying, Do Abraham, are you faithful? But it's saying like, Here comes
Mastema and says, Abraham only, like he wouldn't, he wouldn't sacrifice his son. It wouldn't happen.
And God says, I believe in Abraham. And so it's like this, like crazy, like, like, I'd say, like
whitewashing of the story, that Abraham is not like, there was never a doubt. Like, if God knows
Abraham is going to be faithful, then, then we're already safe. Like, it's totally cool. And, and
so we, we get the story and it's, I mean, it's basically the same story. But one of the really
interesting things is that this story, you know, is retold in another manuscript that we have from
the, from the Dead Sea Scrolls, which is labeled among the Dead Sea Scrolls as pseudo jubilees.
Because the first, the first editors who worked with it, they really, you know, they saw something
so similar, because they saw this basically the same story here being told. But then instead of
it being Mastema, we see Mastema and Belial. And then there's some other textual differences. And so
these editors said, Oh, that's not jubilees, but it's basically like jubilees. So we're called pseudo
jubilees. I think it's, you know, I think it's silly to call things that almost are the same
as something different. But I think it just shows more and more how things are developing all the
time in antiquity. And there's, there's this story was actually really convincing when it was told
in jubilees that some other demon got involved and got God to do some or got God to do something that
he wouldn't have done, which got Abraham to do something that he wouldn't have done. But everybody
knows the whole time that it's to prove the devil wrong, basically. Yeah, that's the whole from what
I can get the gist is they tied it into this Job like narrative, because even then in Job, it's
ugly. Like, why would God do this job? But it's not God. Remember now, he's just God is testing,
but remember, you got to blame this guy who came and asked and like tested God. And so they're
doing that exact thing here to get it God off of the hook, because it's really, really bad, which
might tell you that the Abraham story is pretty old. I don't know how old, but if you go further back,
would they have been ashamed of such a text? I don't know. I mean, especially if human sacrifice
was somewhat still around when the text was being written. So you know, by the first century BC,
it's probably no good, especially when Hellenism comes in. Exactly. You know, so
yeah, and that's, and that's the that's a great point is that that once we're in the Hellenistic
period and later, like it does change. It does change how these texts, like the older texts
are viewed, I think, and then they're retold in a different way, which really tells us that,
you know, these guys that come out there like, oh, you know, Greek, Greek ethics or whatever,
like that's the bad thing that like we're lucky we have a Christian moral because the Greeks would
be out there raping babies or whatever they say, like they say really weird stuff. And, and like
this kind of really shows you that actually Hellenism and rewriting things after Hellenism hits
Judaism, they're they're actually going back and trying to clean up some of that bad stuff that
was going on like say no, no, that didn't that wasn't wasn't really as bad as you might have thought.
And I think that's showing that there's actually a Greek influence that makes them want to appear
better, like then than what they think those stories are actually appearing as the Greek
philosophers were doing it with their gods and the Homeric epics and stuff. So yeah,
I think philosophy may have played a significant role in morality and the development of how we
view the world. So yeah, yeah, I've got a little bit more here. So I just that's all I'm going to
do up text. I just want to walk you through a little bit of what I did in my in my dissertation
would have done a little bit afterward. Because my my whole thing was basically on
textual criticism of Jubilees or looking at the text and asking questions about what do we really
think about textual stability and stuff like that in antiquity. And so one of the first things that
I noticed that got me kind of rolling in my research was that if you look at the if you look at things
in in the textual form that we have it, like you get this feeling like everything is great,
like you have you know exactly what was written in Hebrew. And so this is the the main critical
edition of Jubilees that was published by James Vandercam, who is is basically like the the god
of Jubilees. I mean, he's he's written everything and written about everything, and has a two volume
giant commentary on Jubilees. And like so he's like any time you say anything about Jubilees,
you're either agreeing with him or or trying to prove him wrong. It seems like that's kind of so
but he's he's still alive. He's been at Notre Dame. He's a great great scholar and had done
a ridiculous amount of work on Jubilees. But he in 89 published the Ethiopic text,
which basically is a collation of like 15 of the 27 manuscripts that were available to him
at the time. And so there's like 27 manuscripts that he was able to check. And then he chose
the 15 best and kind of worked from there. Now there's over 50 manuscripts available. So like
that there's there's more. But still, I mean, if you think about like a lot of books of the Bible
and things like this, like what we're saying is that Jubilees critical edition is base is a
cop. So it's a translation of a translation, right? So Jubilees was written in Hebrew translated
to Greek and then to Ethiopic. And then we have here about 15 manuscripts giving us the text.
And if you just think about the numbers compared to what we have of Hebrew or Greek texts,
and the and the number of manuscripts that go go behind that kind of textual criticism,
it's pretty crazy. In the same year, he published a translation with notes. And so
Jubilees is from that time, basically, that was the standard edition and standard translation
that everybody used. And, and this was the basically the textual commentary as well up until
he published more stuff. Vanderkem was also co editor of the Dead Sea Scrolls fragments
of Jubilees. These were originally worked on by Joseph Millick, who was one of the original team
of Dead Sea Scrolls scholars. And he did some Millick, I think did a lot of the placing of
the scrolls, identifying of texts and stuff like that. And then Vanderkem came in kind of in this
second wave of publication and did the final all the final textual work and publication.
But what we see here, like again, if you just look at this, what you see is apparently a pretty
good text, right? It looks like the first couple lines are missing and then everything else looks
pretty dandy. And this is the translation then that's published by Vanderkem and Millick in the
Dead Sea Scrolls discoveries in the Judean Desert series, which is the standard edition.
But when I went to look at this kind of stuff, what I found was that for this, this was what was
extant, right? And so I started kind of trying to figure out what is actually textually retained
and what is, I guess you could say restored from the Ethiopic. And so I made a font out of, I did
some photoshopping and made a font out of the letters and tried to be able to sort it all out.
And so this is what we have for that first column of Jubilees. And this is what is reconstructed
around it. Okay, so that is what it looks like with all the text there. That is the
actual extant that is the restored and that's the complete. So when we look at this,
it like you can, I mean, you see that there is a lot of stuff that was missing.
And it's been restored from a translation of a translation. And so my big question was basically
how much of this is actually there? Like how can we, how much can we know? And so on this screen,
you see the textual problems in what we have. So imagine what we don't have. Exactly. So imagine
what it would be for all the stuff that's missing. So as far as, and maybe you're getting into this,
but like as far as what we do see and we know, hold on, looking at the Ethiopic version,
this is not, like these words that I have highlighted and read are not in that Ethiopic
version, even though it is a translation of a translation. Do they not even work in the context?
Like is it evident that it was actually saying something different than what we have?
So some of them are just pretty simple stuff that it's using either a different word or
it's using a word that the Ethiopic uses a pronoun or it's like, it's just simple grammatical stuff
that, you know, all of your evangelist friends will tell you are meaningless things that obviously
don't affect the meaning of the text or whatever. But some of them are very clearly just something
we don't have. So like here, like we can't even reconstruct what it would have said. So if you
look here, and there's this like, like there's something missing. There's something we don't
know. So if you just to get me as a non expert who's not aware of this, what we're looking at right
here is what we have an extent from the Dead Sea Scroll. We know what this says. This middle one,
if you go back to the one after the Dead Sea Scroll, that one, what is that? Nope, before that one.
That one, what is this? This is a reconstruction you said, but reconstruction. So what's happened
is that I really believe that so this is one of the things that like is a little hard to know
sometimes because so the publication is in two names. But there's two guys, basically, I don't
think worked together on it, like Joseph Millick. He worked on this very early, like in the 1950s.
And you can even go through some of the photos and see where he starts to find where things belong
together, stuff like that. But I'm pretty convinced that he did the retro version, we call it from
Ethiopic. So he knew the Ethiopic text, because this was published 1901, we have an English guy,
Charles, R. R. R. H. Charles, I don't ever remember his whole name. R. H. Charles published
an Ethiopic text based on four manuscripts that he knew of. And so this is like, and an English
translation. And so this is like Millick's retro version of Jubilees from the Ethiopic.
Okay, I'm guessing Charles's version to to Hebrew, right? So he is making the Hebrew
here. Okay, there are a couple of things that are that are really difficult about this. One thing
is just that we in a retro version, you always are uncertain, like you would never know exactly
how things got there. Sometimes philologists are awesome at what they do, and sometimes they are
so wrong. And that's just part of the game, like you can make educated guesses, but it's not a
computer, you know, you can't plug things in and get the right answer. And the other problem is
orthography. So like we one of the things that we see in in these, so this manuscript is has
actually two different, like hands have written it, they're sewn together. And we have basically
some from Jubilees one and some things from Jubilees two. And that's it, that's all we have on
this particular manuscript. And, and it's the hand that has done the first page is much later
than the other one. And so like, you know, there's theories about how or why this happened. And it
could be that it was a replaced part of a manuscript because it got ruined. And so they
rewrote it. Or it could be that it was never meant to be more than just these two texts,
but somebody was working on, you know, put it connecting them or something like that. But
anyway, they're sewn together. And, and the orthography in the earlier parts of Jubilees two
has, it has some kind of telltale signs of, of these kind of longer writings that you see.
So like, like an extra, an extra consonant that helps you and know what the vowel will be,
you have some extra, like, there's just some some things that happen in later Hebrew, and
especially a kumran. And, and we can see that in the, in the extant text. And the first one
doesn't, the first page doesn't have that same, those same features at the same level. And so
like, how do you know to what degree you're reconstructing variant orthographies, variant
writings of certain words? And like, and that makes a difference about how many words you're
going to get on a line, or how many letters you're going to get on a line, which then means
how do you know where to place the fragments and where do you start the next line? And I mean,
it's just, there's just this snowball effect of problems. And so like, when you, so when you have
all this reconstructed that, so whatever, and I make 98% of the text is, is reconstructed when
you look at all the manuscripts together, like we, we don't know a ton. Like we do know that in
some places, like when we look here, like, yeah, there are definitely some things like we can see
like right here, like it says the first line on the, on the right side of the screen says,
something, and it means like to the top of the mountain. And so like, we can place this in the
story of Jubilees, that it's like in the beginning, when, when the angel or the Lord says to Moses
to come up to the top of the mountain. And we can, so we can say, okay, yeah, that fits in really good.
But then like we get down and like, there's these, like little bitty letters, you know, we have like
three letters or two letters. And like, okay, so we have the mountain, or we have to something. And,
and like, these fit in okay, with, with reconstructing, but you just don't know
know how much you can reconstruct accurately. Right, right, right. Okay. And then when we
one, two, three, four, five places on this little fragment where something's different than,
you know, I'm very skeptical to us being able to talk about extremely high level of stability.
So that's basically what I did was do this to, to this manuscripts and, and, and in my reconstruction
of, of it, we, we end up with a, yeah, I didn't have a picture there. So we, we end up with a,
a manuscript that, that doesn't have actually some kind of key parts of the,
the book of Jubilees that are very clearly like redactional editions, if you're using redaction
criticism. And so like, people have theorized about that these sections were, were later additions
before. But then when I kind of redesigned the manuscript and looked at what I think the fragments
actually kind of witness, then that lined up like perfectly with these seams in the text to say like,
those probably weren't there at all, which basically means that Jubilees also was still
being written, still being redacted, still growing, like much later than, than what people had assumed.
Well, after the Dead Sea Scrolls, to put it simply.
Well, to put it, at least into the Dead Sea Scrolls period.
Okay.
And so this is, this is one of those things where,
like, where as, because I'm a scholar that has to maintain some scholarly integrative say,
I don't have an opinion, but I do have an opinion. Like, I think that, that Jubilees was
probably, I mean, I think it would be very, there are some good reasons to suspect that
Jubilees might have been undergoing redaction at Qumran, right? Like that was actually happening,
like that some of these things are results of it. And other scholars that have said that,
like, because Jubilees is really important for, for Qumran, for the Dead Sea Scrolls,
because of the calendar, because the calendar in Jubilees reflects what's being used at Qumran.
And so there could be a connection there.
Yeah. So I, I do have a thing on the names of the wives of patriarchs. I think we'll leave
that for another time, because we're already, we've already been going for so long, but we'll,
yeah, we'll come back to that. But brother, if you want to just, I'll turn off my share screen there.
And there we are. And we can, we can just chat a bit if you want.
I love this, by the way, I love everything that you brought up. It's so interesting and exciting
and fun to do this stuff. I don't want any answers to questions. I want to throw out a
few questions. And the reason why is I want, I like to share, and I really want our audience
to get in on this. And if they have questions, bring them so we could do a live hangout and
have them ask the questions. Let me throw just to get your chuckle of a couple of questions to
give you an idea of like where my head was going in some of this, without necessarily any answers
coming from you. But just to kind of have fun before we let you go. So if I had written down
Enoch and Jubilees, especially with the solar thing, I was like, hold on, Enoch lived in the
Bible 365 years. It sounds like a son. And then the angel giving Moses and the patriarchs a law,
a couple of things that were coming to my head was like, okay, Moses is going up high,
mountaintops usually are touching the heavens. Well, this weird thing we're describing is like
there's these, what we call these heavenly tablets. It's like, God just handed him one of these,
you know, like, Hey, here's a copy of what's really been here the whole time, which makes me
get into this patriarch thing, which means before Moses law, how did they know unclean animals?
How did you, you know, look at Genesis, right? We see this confused issue with Judah. How does he
know about Levite marriage laws? Like what the heck is going on with Cain and Abel? How do they
know what to sacrifice or how to sacrifice? You name it. And there are people just to throw out
there that think they have this concept, they think Adam is Israel. Now this is like a modern
theological issue where they go, they want to say that in Genesis, Adam, all the way to Abraham,
potentially all the way to Moses is really a mythological secret story of Israel's later history.
Why? Well, they find anachronisms like we're talking about with the law. I don't think that
these authors were thinking, I'm going to write a code. This is my opinion, but I'd love to get you
to dive into this and we can pick this apart because there's real academic scholars who've
written books, Adam is Israel. And it's like, hold on, like, I don't think they intended you to
interpret that way. I think they really want you to follow the genealogy and assume his daddy
begat him and him and all the way and boom. So if you want to, you can comment. You just don't,
I just don't want to give away. I love it. You brought up the Judah and Tamar thing. Like that's,
I'll, for the next round, I'll put a slide together about that because that story does
get treated very well in Jubilees. And so that's like, because again, it's one of those things
where one of the patriarchs screws up majorly and everyone's going, wait, was he the bad guy?
How do we, what do we do with this? And Jubilees, like this is one of the times when the angel
actually intervenes into the narrative and says, like, talks about love and this was written on
the heavenly tablets about all the laws and you can't do this and you can't do that and you can't
do the other. But Judah isn't touched by these laws. And so it's like, it really gives you the
conclusion that Judah made no sin. And so, and so there's like, it's, I mean, it really does,
it really does actually try to fix the problem in both cases. Like how did he know on the one
hand, well, it's in the eternal laws, it's on the heavenly tablets. So no big deal. But then also,
Judah, as it isn't actually, and I think, I mean, so now I'm drawing a bit of a blank, but I think
the reasoning is because nobody actually had sex with her until Judah did. So I think that's the
whole thing because... Oh yeah, one of them spilled. Well, it sounded like in Genesis, there was a
pullout situation. But this is, and then that raises that question of what is sex, right?
What is, what is, what is doing the deed? Is it actually inseminating someone? You know, whatever.
But it, but it, like, because like the first son dies before he could make a baby, whatever,
and then Onan does his, does his pullout and, or whatever happened there. We don't, we don't
really know because it doesn't really say in the text that it was a pullout. Like it...
I always thought it, yeah, yeah.
But yeah, and it does, like he spills the seed on the ground, right? That's the, that's what it says.
And, and so then the question is just how did, how did it get there? Like, I mean, there's other
ways that could have come about.
That's interesting, yeah.
But then like in Jubilees, then it's like, so what happens is that, that, so basically, yeah,
it is his daughter-in-law, which is a bad thing. But it's not because she was never like,
like actually brought into the marriage in the right way.
And so, yeah.
But they make Judah innocent is what your point is.
Right. Yeah, because Judah has to be innocent. Because Judah has to be innocent.
Like, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
And that's like what Jubilees does is the patriarchs have to be innocent.
Just like Chronicles has David practically have to be innocent. This is great.
This is great.
And this is what the early scholars that were working with Jubilees said. I mean, this is like
been the, was the narrative in the beginning was, look, we have a Chronicles version of,
of Genesis. Because Chronicles Whitewash is not only David, but also like Hezekiah and Solomon.
And, you know, so we get like this narrative that the big guys don't mess up.
And, and so that's what Jubilees kind of continues that line of thinking that,
you know, we, we've got to, we've got to make sure that everybody knows that this didn't go down
like that. Like, it wasn't like, we're not, because if Judah is, if Judah is bad, you know,
that's horrible. Like, but it apparently wasn't horrible until the time of the chronicler and
later. So, yeah.
I jotted down a few more notes, questions. And one of them was conflating Exodus and Genesis.
I felt like they were trying to bridge that gap. It just felt like an unnatural trying to merge the
two. But in all of us, it's kind of, it's kind of complex. There's layers to this, but it's in
that question of anachronisms too. So there's, there's something going on that's really weird.
Creating water. This is what was really weird to me in what you were talking about. I noted
that they want to give water its creator. And I wondered if, and I like, I'm completely out here
in speculative land, but if Hellenism's on the scene and they have engaged with the Greco-Roman
world or the great, the Greek world, let's just say, but the Roman world is on the rise here.
We do know that from Daniel. We know that from like, there's some stuff going on here, I would say.
That's, that's, this beginning to happen. I, I know that the God that is the creator, if you
will, of the water, if I'm not mistaken, is in the Greek world is hydros. So like, they have
a source to say where water comes from. And if they don't have that already figured out in the
Hebraic mind, because they're borrowing or from the Babylonian, Mesopotamian background,
let's say, and Assyrian and all that, like they don't really explain how water came to be.
The Greeks would have come in and probably made them feel like, hey, we've got to make sure we
have our God also creating water, because in our texts, we don't have them creating water. I'm
hypothesizing here. I wrote down hydro, hydro, Gaia and Kronos just for the heck of it. I mean,
this could be a complete leap that I could be way off. I'm just saying I found that very, very
strange. And then the way that the spirits from singular or plural, this really made me think,
okay, here we have already subordinate, instead of calling them other Elohimism, like lower gods,
they're already coming with this thing we call where we start getting into Greek and they want
to call the Elohim angels. And we like start to change because there's only one God above Supreme.
It makes you wonder if this is where there's already this kind of proto,
let's make sure we only have one God as our chief and there's no other gods, if that makes sense.
Oh, definitely. And that's, thank you for that last point. That's, I mean, for me, it's almost
to obvious to even talk about is that this is a much more monotheistic context. And so
basically, you've explained the problem in Genesis 126-127 by introducing other beings
that are subordinate to God at the beginning. So you say there's angels and spirits that ministered
to him and they praise him at the creation and all this stuff. And then when he says that,
let's create man in our image, he's got somebody to talk to. And this isn't like, this isn't a
B'nai Elohim situation where you say, well, maybe, maybe not, like they're not, no, no, no,
like we're past that, like we're past that stage of development when this text is written.
And it's like they're, they're subordinate beings, created beings, created beings that were created
after the beginning of creation. Right, right, right. This solves that. And then the last one
in I'd love to rabbit trail, but we have to save it. Why isn't Jubilee's known in like
rabbinic literature? Why aren't they using this? What is their beef with the literature of the
Jubilees? What the heck, man, because it makes me think like, why aren't we seeing it in the
Talmud? Are we seeing it? Maybe you know, there's a reference here or there that they've known,
but we kind of lost it through history. I don't know. I think we should save these wonderful
questions for our live stream. Yeah, yeah, I will make sure to put together also that what,
yeah, what I, what I do know about that and let give you some textual examples, but there's,
you know, like you insinuated that there's not a lot. So it's, it's really, it's a really good
question. Thank you. Well, any final words you'd like to say to the audience? Maybe, maybe a recap.
What is a recap of Jubilee's and why, what's so shocking about this information? If someone who's
like lost along the way and they're like, this was a little over my head, like why is this so
shocking? What you're describing? Yeah, so Jubilee's, the most shocking thing, the most amazing thing
about Jubilee's, I think for most people is just the fact that we have a text that radically
re-envisions the Torah, re-envisions Genesis in the first century BC. So it's, it's, there's,
there's, there's definitely a concept of the stories behind Genesis being important,
but there is no concept of that they're so holy in their textual form that they have to remain that
way because the author of Jubilee's can go in and say, nope, the calendar was wrong, the patriarchs
did things right, all the laws were on a heavenly tablet that you've never heard about, and everything
else can be crafted and changed and fixed in certain ways without it being a problem. So there's
like a golden standard of what we call canon, it's flexible and it's
exactly like there's there, I mean it for me, it just kind of, it just breaks down completely the
idea of what a canonical text could be. So like we can say, sure, Jubilee's knows Genesis and
obviously wants to show the importance or relevance of Genesis, like, but that doesn't mean it sees
Genesis as this wholly untouchable text, like it breaks it apart and basically says in some places,
you know, what Genesis is trying to say isn't the good thing, so we're going to drop it, like,
and so there's just such a clear unraveling of the idea that you had to read the text of the Torah
in a certain way or else you were wrong, like that, that just isn't there because we have it in
Jubilee's, we have it, and then we have it in other Kumran texts as well, right, we have it in the
rewritten Pentateuch manuscripts and things like that, where we see that you can, in the first century
BC, even in the first century AD, you can reinvent the way the narratives of Genesis are written
and that's totally fine, and that goes against all ideas of a really fixed canon of a stability
from whatever, from a time of Ezra and to whatever, like, it's just not there.
To put it bluntly for those watching, if you are, this is obviously a jab at Christianity in many
ways in terms of the way that they fixed everything and this is the way it should be, I'm not saying
some Orthodox churches are kind of open-minded with flexibility with the text, but don't you ever
test or challenge the church itself, it becomes the immutable object to Orthodox Judaism,
in particular, this would be a jab at that and the idea that the Jews have always had this, like,
fixed since Ezra onward or that there was a stop and prophetic prophets, if you will, and like,
the way that they have their whole idea of canon, like, every single school of thought pretty much
gets touched by Jubilee's in some magical way, and I hope if you're watching this and you were like
me, a fundamentalist who believed in the inerrant infallibility, immutability of God's Word and
it was perfect, it was God-breathed and this is exactly what God wanted, etc., etc. I hope you
see the flexibility, I hope you see through and that whole foundation cracks and your faith matures,
I encourage it, but to stop with that whole, those are progressive scholars and we have the
conservative exegetical approach, listen, they're all doing isogesis according to the definitions
that they love to spout, so it was very common that Jews themselves, not only New Testament
authors, which love to kind of rehash and and midrash and use the text however they wanted,
so did the Jews, so it's not just a Christian thing, it's a Jewish thing and you know what,
I love it and I hope you do too. I hope you find this educational, I hope you find this freeing
and this gives you enthusiasm to want to go study more and to learn more about our history,
our past and all these texts. Dr. Munger, thank you so much for your time, I'm sorry I had to
give that spiel because this is a fantastic episode. Absolutely, yeah thanks a lot man,
I really enjoyed this and like I said I'm happy to do a live stream or whatever you want to set
up and we can you know really hash out the kind of questions on whatever, yeah I'm definitely
game for that. Thank you so much ladies and gentlemen, go down in the description, check out
our links, also help support us here at MythVision, join the Patreon, don't miss out on any of the
fun stuff and never forget, we are MythVision. Ladies and gentlemen, join MythVision's Patreon,
not only to support us but there are 72 videos that I did with Dr. Dennis R. MacDonald and Richard
Carrier, all on the Patreon, early access, you guys can ask personal questions when I go to
interview these scholars and help with MythVision.
