Dr. John Dominic Crossan, you told me to call you Dom. Why is it that the Book of Revelation
is so anti-Rome and it's Johanna in material, as many scholars think, yet the Gospel of John is
anti-Jewish? What's going on in these two texts, if you will? They have nothing whatsoever to do
with one another, and any attempt to make them part of a corpus in any way, shape, or form
is, if I may put it politely, wrong. They're both called Johns, one of the most common names,
as it is still today. So just because you find yourself talking to somebody who has the same
name, John, you don't suddenly think, oh, genealogy, we must be somehow cousins or something? No,
of course, they have nothing to do with one another. Any idea of getting them into a corpus?
Now, the epistles of John, I think, do work along closely as part of the Gospel, according to John,
as we say. But all of that is, if I may take something from the Sea of Galilee, red herrings,
to distract us from what's really going on. Now, what do we do about the Lamb of God? It seems
that that motif is both in the Gospel of John and the Book of Revelation, John.
A lot of people maybe see that and go, okay, this shows that they're part of those same literary
corpus. Again, pure coincidence. Lamb of God, you think of the Lamb, you're the paschal lamb at
the exes from Egypt, the blood on the doorsteps that tell them they're free as a word. It really
has nothing to do beyond coincidence. You could probably go through and pick out a lot of other
things. But the Gospel, according to John, is, I would say, attributed to the beloved disciple.
That's internal in it. Who that is, what name that person has. Again, a red herrings. We spend our
time discussing this, arguing for it and against it. And I would say the consensus of scholarship
today is there is nothing to do with the John of Patmos and the John according to which the
fourth Gospel is written. So I would say words apart. I just wanted to hurdle that before we get
into the Book of Revelation, as this book is supposed to be written to seven churches in Asia
Minor. While reading Elaine Pagel's book, I really enjoyed both her origins of Satan and, as you
mentioned in your latest book, Render unto Caesar. Excellent book. I really thought she might be on
to something when I went to interview her in person in Colorado about this church, the one that's
being rebuked, that's eating meat sacrificed idols and, of course, committing fornication.
This might have been a Pauline church that this author's jabbing at. Do you think this is a Pauline
church or do you think at this time, Christianity, that people have kind of taken Paul into their
own hands and have gone beyond Paul? I know it's a guesswork, but what do you think is going on? Do
you think that it's anti-Pauline? The danger of simplifying it to that makes the focus too fine,
too small. Let me widen the focus. There is a major issue in early, let's call it Christianity,
or Messianic Christianity, with regard to business. It's the economy dummy. I'm a pious Christian,
let me say. I made any one of the seven churches. Take your pick, Ephesus, Myrnav, anyone you want,
Sardis. I've visited all of them. Some of them are not worth the trip, to be honest. There's
nothing left, but others are. But they are real churches, and they were real churches. Without
a doubt, they're not just seven kind of picked up mystically. They are real churches. Imagine I'm
with Ephesus, let's say, and I'm a good Christian. No, I don't think Caesar is the Son of God. I think
Christ is the Son of God. But I don't see why I can't be involved in the Mediterranean globalization,
which is actually what Roman imperialism is about, globalization, the whole Mediterranean
as one giant market. Why can't I export, say, my wine into the Mediterranean thing?
Yeah, I'm dealing with Rome. That's true. But I'm not accepting the divinity. Why can't I?
So I run into a problem. The persons I'm dealing with are pagan, let's say. It's called the pagan.
And when I'm selling my wine to, wants to have a feast day, in honor of his patron deity,
he invites me to the temple. He invites me to the temple. I'm not going there to worship God.
But the meat that will be available in the temple for our feast is going to come from sacrifices.
Now we're not offering sacrifices, but we're eating the fruit of sacrifices.
Hmm. Can I do that? Now Paul says, yes. He talks about exactly that problem.
You know what you're doing. You're not worshiping God. You're just being courtesan. Just a courtesan.
It would be like if I was invited to a Jewish friend's for supper and the males are wearing
a yarmulke and I'm offering, of course I'd wear it. The meal is kosher. Of course I won't ask for
shellfish. It's a courtesan. I adapt myself to it. If somebody says, you're a traitor, you're
trying to act Jewish. No, I'm just being polite. So that's Paul's answer. Of course you can go along
with it. Now, Paul's been liberal there. John of Patmos ain't a liberal. He's a radical. No way can you
do that. Don't even think of it. Using Paul's favorite expression, Meganoita. Don't even think of it.
Now, I don't see that. So he's right into these churches and it's addressed to seven churches
and this is one of the problems they have. There's a lot of other problems, but all of the problems
come down to this. How do I negotiate in the Roman Empire's Mediterranean globalization?
Now, I'm not talking about theology. I know, of course, Caesar is not the Son of God,
but Christ is the Son of God. I know that. Otherwise, I wouldn't be a Christian.
But what about business? What about the economy? Now, let me insist on this.
In John's whole gospel, you almost never hear the legions mentioned. That's Roman power. That
comes after you aggressively, but Roman power is on the periphery. It's on the Rhine. It's on the
Danube. It's on the Euphrates. It's on the African literal. Inside that Pax Romana, inside that
Cordon Santerre, everything is peaceful. John isn't after the legions. John of Patmos is after the
merchants. That's why the merchants get it. And when Rome falls, the merchants will mourn. John
is after business because as far as he is concerned, and in this one, he's not totally wrong,
not totally right either, but he's not totally wrong that Roman imperialism isn't just about the
legions and taking land. It's about globalization. And I'm not trying to use now a word to be with
it today. Mediterranean globalization was what Rome was about. They weren't there accumulating land,
have a nice little circle of color around the Mediterranean. It was about business. So to
understand John of Patmos and Revelation, take seriously when he's talking about the merchants
and take seriously when he's talking about collusion with maybe could you not eat food offered to
idols? When does that happen? Why would you go to a pagan temple? Because that's where most feasts
took place. Unless you had a big enough villa that you could have it in your own villa, which
a lot of these people who were merchants wouldn't have it. They'd have their shops,
but they'd go to the temple in the same way that Italians today spend so much time outdoors
in piazzas and places like that. So that's what's really going on. I quoted in the book and again,
I wasn't trying to just be with it. It's the economy dummy and to understand John
and maybe that's the one thing we can take. We really can take today from John. There's
lots of other things we shouldn't take, but this we can take when imperialism works by globalization.
In one sense, none of our hands are clean. None of our hands are clean. If we're wearing shorts
or if we're wearing anything that comes from sweatshops at the other end of the world,
that's what globalization looks like. So that's one thing we should take seriously. There's a
lot of other things you can talk about that we should not take seriously or take anti-seriously
taken against. Ladies and gentlemen, join Mythditions Patreon not only to support us,
but there are 72 videos that I did with Dr. Dennis R. McDonald and Richard Carrier
all on the Patreon Early Access. You guys can ask personal questions when I go to interview these
scholars and you're helping MythVision grow.
