The virgin birth of Jesus Christ, the immaculate deception. Ladies and gentlemen,
I hope you guys stay tuned. Bill Zersher is going to take us through Jesus being born of a virgin.
Why did the church later on start to make it an immaculate conception like she never had
any sexual relationships with Joseph or any man? Was Jesus really born of a virgin?
Why doesn't Mark mention this story? Was it really a virgin birth in Isaiah 714?
Just stay tuned.
We are Miss Vision. Welcome back to the New Testament.
We are Miss Vision. Welcome back to the New Testament.
We are Miss Vision. Welcome back to Miss Vision podcast. I'm your host, Derek Lambert. Today,
I have a very special treat for you. I have a gentleman who's actually done a few presentations
on YouTube that I was actually really surprised and shocked at. I said, wow, this is a great
presentation. He tied in various scholars who probably don't see face to face on many things,
but they came together in this presentation in such a way to dissect Christianity and its
origins. I've never heard anything like it. He was a great presenter. And I said, wow,
I saw my buddy Timothy Mills on Harmonic Atheist interview him. So you guys can go down in the
description if you want to check out that video as a real good friend of mine. But I said, I've
got to interview him on Miss Vision. There's no reason that I haven't done so. And here he is.
Bill, nice to, nice to meet you. And I'm glad you're joining me.
How do I pronounce your last name to be sure I'm not butchering it?
Oh, it's Zersher. So you can make either the you or the E silent, but you just can't tolerate
both of them together. Well, welcome to Miss Vision podcast. Thank you. It's great to be here.
Yes, sir. I want to go ahead and tell everyone right now. He wrote this book,
Seeing Through Christianity, A Critique of Beliefs and Evidence, Bill Zersher. Go check him out.
Get the book. If you guys could read ebook 299. I mean, if you have ebook as 299, if you want
the paperback and you want the book, you know, in your hand, 1599, of course, you could do hard
copy as well. Get the book. It's a fascinating read. He is covering many of the scholars that
I interview on this show, but he also is tying in things that you probably haven't heard presented
in such a way from Zoroastrianism and mystery school religions, et cetera, et cetera. So
check him out there. And of course, here's the video that he did with my buddy Tim Mills.
All right. Well, I appreciate you coming on, Bill. I'm going to go ahead and tell everyone
a little bit about you quickly. You wrote the book, Seeing Through Christianity and
Bill studied economics and government at Yale University. He worked in the corporate world
for two decades and his passion is for learning about religion and keeping the gods out of our
textbooks. So, I mean, that's a simple, I'm sure there's far more I could say about you, but
I guess the best thing would be, let's get started, huh? Yeah, sure. I mean, I like to describe
myself as an activist for the separation of church and state. And, you know, I continue to learn
about religion and philosophy, and I like putting things together and trying to communicate
in a clear way some of the issues and some of the problems that I've encountered.
Well, you know, at some point, I would love to see your presentation, of course, on the
seeing through Christianity on here, but I'm afraid you've already beat that drum so many times.
You said, you know what, I've got to do something different. How about a woman who's pregnant,
but she's still a virgin? And I said, you know, that sounds like an interesting show.
Yeah. So, so many Christians across the world actually believe this, whether the orthodoxy
churches of Roman Catholicism and, well, Eastern Orthodox, if you will, how strict they are about
these things, I would think the Roman Catholics are extremely their perpetual virgin mother.
That seems to be pretty strict, but I guess Eastern Orthodox isn't quite as strict on this.
Yeah. Well, in terms of the Roman Catholic Church, I think there are, there are four dogmas of
Mariology, they call it. And of course, Protestants criticize Catholics, because a lot of Protestants
think Catholics are worshiping Mary, they call that Mariolatry. But really, it's Mariology and
there are four, four doctrines. There's the perpetual virginity of Mary. There's her immaculate
conception. There's Theotokos, which is that she's mother of God. And the fourth one is her
assumption, her bodily assumption into heaven. And I'm actually going to talk about
three of those as we go through the slide presentation, because you'll see how they,
they fit together. Awesome. Is there anything else you'd like to say before we get started
with the presentation? Is there a way that anyone can get ahold of you or anything in
particular that you'd like to put out there? Well, as you mentioned, my, my book is available on
Amazon. And I just, I just so happen to have a hard copy here. But I have a website by the same
name. So seeing through Christianity.com, if anyone wants to shoot me an email or a message
to that website, that, that would be great. Well, that would be happy to talk. Yeah. Yeah,
that'll be down in the description. Everyone go check out his website, get the book. I mean,
I just bought the book myself. And I'm excited to see what you have to say, Bill. So we'll go
ahead and pull up the presentation. There we go. So you can't see me, but I can see you.
Okay, well, good thing I'm wearing pants then. Yeah, let's, I think this is a really interesting,
interesting story. I'm kind of showing this sort of in a circular form because the,
it really does go full circle. I want to talk a little bit about virginity in the ancient
Jewish world. The story itself. And then I want to talk about precursors or possible precursors.
Then around to some of the difficulties with the doctrine. And that'll bring us full circle
back to virginity. So just as a reminder, in case some of your viewers
haven't been, haven't been studying Deuteronomy lately, it is pretty serious business. So this
is just an excerpt. Basically, if a man marries a woman and finds that she is not a virgin,
and there's no, there's no way to demonstrate that, that she was, then she can actually be
stoned to death. So this is, you know, pretty serious business. And presumably, what they're
talking about here is finding a cloth with, with blood stain on it. And actually, if you go back
into some of the Talmudic readings within Judaism and outside of Judaism and some of the pagan,
the pagan writings, there is a long, long history of people faking blood on a, on a wedding night in
order to pass a virginity test. So this is really serious business. Although, although if we have
time, I'll talk about a pretty humorous story that kind of comes with, comes with this. But,
but let's stay on on a serious note for now. This is a painting. By the way, I'm going to show a
few pieces of artwork, because you know, before, before literacy was widespread art was an important
way to, to communicate ideas. This is Fra Angelica from 1450, the Virgin of the Annunciation.
And you can see what's happening here is an angel is informing Mary that she is going to
that the power of the, of the Holy Spirit is going to come on her. And she's going to become
pregnant.
Accordingly, we have a small family tree here on the left. And on the right, we can see a close-up
of the picture that we just saw. And I think from the big picture, you can see Mary looking almost
enthroned, almost like royalty with the angel bowing in front of her. But I think you get a
different message when you look at the close-up. At that time and place, of course, a woman would
be given in birth at the age of 13 or 14. So we have really a pretty frightened young person here.
And of course, if she were pregnant already, that would be a source of, of shame and
possibly fatal shame. So whether you believe, you know, Mary was fictional or a real person,
we're dealing with a frightened 13 or 14-year-old.
So let's, let's actually get into the, the Christian story. These are really the origins of the
story, Matthew and Luke, and really out of 27 books from the New Testament, only two of the
mention of virgin birth. So Mary was pledged to be married to Joseph. She was found to be
pregnant through the Holy Spirit. So that's kind of interesting. Again, and then Luke says,
to a virgin pledge to be married, a descendant of David, that's important. The Holy Spirit
will come on you and the power of the Most High will overshadow you. So again, not a whole lot
to go on here. So if you really start to think about the virgin birth story, there are a number
of elements to the story. And I think to really understand it, we need to break it down into
its component pieces. And, and we also need to start at the beginning, which is what I've
tried to do with this little, little slide here. So if you're talking about a virgin birth,
it seems to me that at the very least you need to have this human female and some sort of a divine
power at work. And the human female needs to be a virgin prior to conception. But so you need at
least those two things, it seems to me, for a minimalist virgin birth story. Now Paul and Mark,
if we're looking chronologically, the letters of Paul and the Gospel of Mark were the first
Christian writings that we have in chronological order. And neither of them mention anything
about a virgin birth, which is kind of interesting. We'll come back to that later. Paul has this,
this idea that Jesus was somehow a preexisting, a sort of a special sort of angel. And his
Jesus's incarnation, as far as Paul concerned, was appears to be utterly normal. Mark, on the other
hand, doesn't even talk about Jesus's birth or his childhood. In Mark, Jesus, you know, shows up as a
fully grown already, sort of inaction, if you will. And the Gospel of Mark has what we would call an
adoptionistic Christology. So Jesus becomes divine at the time of his baptism. That's another story.
That's a different story we can talk about later. So let's move on. If we add some time moving,
moving forward. And of course, the dating is controversial, I say, you know, sort of in the
70 to 90 CE ballpark, you've got Matthew and Luke writing. And of course, both of them have the
first two elements of the story. Matthew and only Matthew adds the prophecy. And this is something
that's important. Both of them have asexual conception, okay, and that that's going to be
something that differentiates the Mary Jesus story from a lot of the other, particularly the
pagan stories where you have amorous, amorous gods coupling in the traditional manner with
attractive young human females. Finally, if we take the story a little bit farther,
we have the Gospel of John, who doesn't have a virgin birth. But like Paul,
Jesus is sort of a preexisting being. So as I mentioned, in the case of Paul, you have this sort
of angelic figure. In the case of John, Jesus is the preexisting logos who has existed for all eternity.
And then some time goes by. And by the time you get to about 150 of the common era,
you have some non canonical writings, the most the best known for or the most relevant to our
purposes is the proto evangelum of James written around 150 of the common era. And we have then
Mary is a perpetual virgin. So in that story, it's kind of a it's really interesting story,
I should probably have a separate slide on this, but Mary gives birth in a cave. And she's with a
midwife. And there's some smoke and some lightning, as you kind of get the idea, there's a little bit
of a magic show going on. And all of a sudden, the baby Jesus is there. So there was no, there was
no pain in labor. Her hymen is intact. And the midwife runs out to Mary's friend, Salome, who's
outside of the cave, and says, Well, you're not going to believe what's happened here.
The baby just appeared miraculously. There was no pain. No, no, no blood. Salome comes in and says,
you know, I don't believe that. I'm going to you I'm going to check with my finger to see if she's
really still a virgin. And as she says that the hand that she's reaching out with withers. And
Salome, you know, says, Oh, no, I shouldn't have been testing testing the Lord. And an angel appears
and tells Salome, you know, repent. And if you you touch the baby, Jesus, your hand will be healed.
So she does that. And there you have it. So you have perpetual virginity in the the proto
evangelum of James. So interesting that all of these stories are somewhat different. And
and notice that, you know, kind of none of these stories necessarily have all of the elements.
But if we if we take them all together, and we add a column here for sort of the Jesus story,
as a composite, you can see that, okay, now we have all the pieces of
in the puzzle have come together. But you know, it's kind of interesting to observe that
the Jesus story is itself a composite of multiple sources.
So let's talk about possible precursors to this story, both both biblical and non biblical.
And I'm sure just about everyone's familiar with the Adam and Eve being created
from from dust and a rib, you know, that's pretty, pretty creative, pretty miraculous.
A less well known story, of course, but kind of a blast. It's only a couple of lines in Genesis
is the birth of the Tefilum. And these were giants, or men of renown, that came about through
that came about through angels impregnating human women. It's at least in the in the in the
biblical tradition, it doesn't seem to work the other way around. In the pagan tradition, there are
human men who have impregnated goddesses. But you don't see that in the biblical tradition.
Mostly what you see in the Bible, of course, in the Old Testament is instances of old age
and barrenness. So Abraham and Sarah, and so on, all the way up until the New Testament. So in
Luke, we've got Elizabeth and Zechariah, giving birth to John the Baptist in kind of a similar
type of old age barrenness type of a situation, a harkening back to the old the Old Testament.
Now, where it really gets interesting is when you look at sort of some of the
pre-Christian examples. And I've got kind of, this is sort of representative rather than
comprehensive. I've got here kind of some Eastern gods. The biggest group is Greek gods and heroes.
And they're actually historical figures that had miraculous births attributed to them as well.
And, you know, I don't have on here, for example, Zoroaster, who was in later tradition,
born of a virgin, but in the earliest, the right, you know, the pre-Christian writings,
or the pre-Christian Zoroastrian traditions, we can't find that. So I've left him off the list.
Similarly, some of the the avatars, the avatars of Vishnu, like Rama.
I don't have on the list because we can't establish that those miraculous births were pre-Christian.
The same thing with Buddha. Buddha probably was pre-Christian, but we might as well just
focus here on the kind of the the Mediterranean world. So lots of interesting stories here.
I'm just going to pick out a couple that I think are really interesting. This one is the birth of
Romulus. And let me let me get my notes here. This is a Rubens. Isn't that just a wonderful
a wonderful painting? So around this is around 1620. So what had happened is that,
you know, a bad king had usurped the throne, and he killed the rightful king's sons,
and he had locked the daughter up with the Vestal Virgins in order to prevent her from
giving birth to a rival. But Mars saw her and basically came down, had sex with her.
So you have a divine power and a human female who's a virgin, but it's not asexual because
it's essentially essentially a rape. Later, and then she gives she gives birth to Romulus and you
sir, you're off to off to the to the races with the the founding of Rome and so on. In in Plutarch's
version of the story, which is like about round 100 CE, Romulus actually comes back and tells
one of his followers that he had pre existed before his birth. He existed before he became
incarnate on earth. So that's sort of an interesting story element that's in some of the tradition.
Now, Perseus was really interesting. So
the king had heard that his daughter was going to he had heard a prophecy
that his his grand, his grandson, his daughter's son was going to give birth to someone who was
going to kill him. So he locked her away. Her name was Donahue. And he locked her in a bronze chamber.
Man, that's that's got to be a rough way to go. And what happened is but nevertheless,
Zeus fell in love with her, or at least was attracted to her. And he came to Donahue
in the form of a golden shower. And that's captured. This is a remarkable painting by Gustav
Klimt from 1907, showing Donahue sleeping being impregnated by the shower of gold.
And so she gave birth to the Greek hero Perseus. So we have a somewhat asexual conception here.
Now, let's talk about Hephaestus. This is this is about the simplest family tree you're going to see.
Hera, who is of course Zeus's wife, gave birth to Hephaestus. She got pissed off at Zeus and
basically willed Hephaestus into existence without any male assistance whatsoever.
So this is like a wine cup, you can see Hephaestus is on the donkey. He had a bad
bad leg. So he's often depicted riding a donkey for transport. And this is Dionysus with the wine
goblet there sort of leading leading Hephaestus back to back to Mount Olympus after Hera got
pissed off at him. That's another story. But essentially here you have asexual, completely
asexual conception. And another really interesting aspect of this is that there's a
virginity or a perpetual virginity tradition with Hera. Of course, if you read the story, she had
lots of sex, but she bathed every year in a spring, a spring called Conithos, which restored her
virginity. So very interesting, she was highly sexually active as the survey takers would say
these days, but she restored her virginity on an annual basis. Now Addis is another very interesting
one. Addis is the son of Nana. There are multiple versions of the story. She was either a human female
or a nymph. She was out gathering fruit one day, as virgins do. And she came across this tree and
it was an almond or a pomegranate or some unidentified fruit. And she put it in her lap
and it disappeared. And sometime later, she gave birth to Addis. And this is a stone relief
from a Roman ruins. And it shows Addis sort of lying underneath this tree. Addis has castrated
himself. That's kind of another story. We can come back to that. But so you have
Nana giving birth to Addis sort of without any kind of coupling whatsoever.
Let's talk about one more. I've talked about mythological figures. Let's look at
a real life figure. And we need to think about the geopolitical context of when
the New Testament was coming together and at the time of Jesus. This is a map of the Roman
Empire. And you can see Judea here in the exotic east of the empire. It was just a province.
And a lot of Jews really chafed at Roman rule. And the ultimate symbol of worldly power, if you
will, and of Roman rule, was Caesar Augustus. And so this is a statue of Augustus, two meter
high statue, sort of showing him in kind of classical Greek hero style. And his earthly
father was Octavius. But there's a legend that his mother went to sleep in the temple of Apollo.
And while she was there, while she fell asleep, the god Apollo came to her in the form of a snake.
And in due course, Augustus was born. And that's really a takeoff, if you will. He's really ripping
off Alexander the Great and Scipio Africanus, who was the general who defeated Hannibal. So he
was a hero for saving Rome in that respect. So looked at from this point of view, you can see
Augustus as sort of co-opting a long line of nativity propaganda. What's really interesting
for our purposes, though, is that Augustus was referred to as Savior, Lord, and Son of God.
And so all of these terms applied to him in one way or the other. So he was a savior because
he brought an end to the very destructive war with Anthony and Cleopatra. Lord, of course,
was a common term used in master-slave relationships, but particularly the Lord
in the Mediterranean world referred to Augustus. And he was known as the Son of God,
really for two reasons. I mean, first of all, because of the Apollo story, but also because
he was the adoptive son of Julius Caesar, who was deified, that has made a God after his death.
So Augustus was the adoptive son of God of Julius Caesar. All great stuff.
So let's check out our scorecard here. Along the left, you can kind of see those same
elements that we talked about in terms of the Jesus story. And we can look at the folks I talked
about as sort of ticking some of these boxes. And in some cases, we have kind of partial
matches. But again, you can see that if you look at all of these stories taken together,
one way or another, all of the boxes are ticked. So you have all of the elements
of the Jesus birth story were present in the Hellenistic world. Now, does that mean that
the Jesus story was borrowed from these elements? So that's a fun question.
And kind of, you know, we can kind of look, well, yeah, there's some yes and there's some no.
You know, on the yes side of the story, we have, well, you know, miraculous births were a common
belief in the Greco-Werman world. And Matthew and Luke wrote in Greek, and they would have known
those stories. The way people learned Greek was by reading and writing Homer and Hesiod,
and those classic stories. On the other hand, folks will argue back well that no story is exactly
like the Mary Jesus story. And after all, the Bible, the Old Testament already did have a tradition
of miraculous births. And there was a huge emphasis already in the Old Testament on virginity.
So I mean, those are valid points. Some additional points. And I think some of these are stronger
points. You know, we talked about the silence of Paul and Mark. And now we have Matthew and Luke
coming along writing just as more Gentiles were entering the Jesus movement. So those Gentiles
may have been expecting some sort of miraculous birth as a sign that their new Lord was indeed
special. And another interesting point is that, you know, you need the incarnation for Christianity
to work, but you don't really need the virgin birth. So you need God to become man, so God can
sacrifice himself as an atonement. But there's a lot of other ways that God could have become
man. He could have been incarnated by an order by a woman who was not a virgin.
He could have been spoken into existence, if you will, sort of creation ex nihilo.
Or he could have been made out of clay, like Adam was. And we'll come back to the Adam parallel,
because that's important. So the virgin birth wasn't necessary. That suggests, well, maybe it
wasn't an add-on in order to appeal to the Gentile audience. You know, on the other hand, the Jews
tended to be non syncretistic with their religion. And there's also some inconvenience brought up,
which I'm going to talk about in a bit, about the Messiah story being incompatible with the
virgin birth story. So how do you stitch those two stories together? So I tend to, you know,
to come out with the view that, you know, that Matthew and Luke were part of the Hellenistic
culture, and that they took these story elements, particularly the virgin birth story element,
as a way of appealing to the Gentile audience. It'd be interesting to, at the end, maybe we'll
come back and revisit that question, because, you know, there's a lot of arguments one way or the other.
But I've already alluded to a couple of the difficulties, but let's talk about, you know,
really some of the hardships that the virgin birth story kind of imposes on Christianity.
And I've got a number of difficulties here, scriptural difficulties and theological
difficulties. We're not going to spend a huge amount of time on these, but we'll gallop through
these, and Derek will come back if, you know, you had some points that you think needed to be
stressed a little bit more. Virgin birth prophecy. Yeah, there was no prophecy. So Matthew
put this into his gospel. The virgin will conceive and give a birth to a son, and they'll call him
Emmanuel, which means God with us. Actually, it means God is with us. So in order to understand
what's going on here, we have to think, well, who the heck is Matthew talking about? So Matthew's
actually talking about Isaiah, specifically first Isaiah, since most scholars agree there are
two different Isaias. So first Isaiah writing, you know, 800 years before the time, you know,
that Matthew is writing. So let's go back and see what Isaiah is actually saying.
So here's what's going on. Aram and Ephraim. Okay, Ephraim is another name for Israel.
There are, they've formed an alliance and they're going to attack Judah. And King Ahaz
is terrified of this invasion that's going to take place, right? And so
the prophet says that God will give you a sign, and the sign is going to be the virgin will conceive
and give birth to a son, yada, yada, yada. And then this is really important. Before the boy knows
enough to reject the wrong and choose the right, the land of the two kings you dread will be laid
to waste. So in other words, King Ahaz is being comforted by God that this invasion he fears
will not happen. So he's pointing to, notice it's the virgin, we'll come back to the exact
wording here. He points to someone who is in the presence of the speaker and the listener,
and says, before the boy knows enough to reject the wrong and choose the right,
traditionally the age of knowing wrong from right was taken to be seven. So within the next seven
years Ephraim and Aram are going to be destroyed. You're not going to have anything to worry about.
So this doesn't have anything to do with something that's going to happen 800 years in the future.
King, you know, the king, king would not be comforted and his people would not be assured
knowing that something was going to happen in 800 years. They were worried they were going to be
invaded very shortly. Now let's take a closer look at the actual text here, the virgin we'll
conceive. Well, I've all of the text I'm showing you is from the the NIV, the new international
version. And of course that draws heavily on the Greek Septuagint. But actually the Jews would
have been, this would have been in Hebrew. So if we look at the Masoretic text in Hebrew,
the word is Alma, which basically means young woman. The Greek translation from the Septuagint
would have been Parthenos, which which means virgin. And Matthew would likely have been using,
or he may well have preferred for this reason, to be using the Septuagint over the Masoretic
text. So you really have to strain to find a prophecy anywhere in here.
Let's talk about this idea of the genealogies and the virgin birth. So both Matthew and Luke
provide genealogies of of Joseph, taking us to Jesus in order to show that Jesus is from the
line of David and therefore he is eligible to be the Messiah. Okay, so they both Matthew and Luke
give these extensive genealogies, really boring. Okay, that establishes Jesus as the Messiah.
But if Jesus is born of a virgin from the Holy Spirit, well, okay, maybe he's divine then,
but he's no longer descended from the house of David via Joseph.
Right, so the two stories are incompatible. He's either the Messiah or he's born of a virgin.
He can't really be both. Now, you know, one possible harmonization of this
is the idea that, well, Joseph adopted him. So he is he is Messiah by adoption,
and a virgin birth, shall we say biologically, maybe that works if you believe that
adoptive legalism was something that was relevant to Messiahship. But there doesn't really appear
to be much precedent for that. You could argue, well, David himself was adopted by God because he
was a commoner who was put on the throne. So maybe you could make that argument work.
I still think the two are an uneven fit. Then, of course, we're not going to go into details,
but the nativity and the birth stories between Matthew and Luke are replete with contradictions.
And some of these contradictions can be harmonized, like maybe the angel appeared
to both of them. Okay, so both stories were partly true. They didn't have the full picture.
Other ones are pretty hard to harmonize, like the timing. You know, Kyrenius' governorship
and Herod's reign did not overlap. This is a painting called The Adoration of the Magi.
I love this painting. And it became traditional in sort of the Renaissance period and afterwards
to do nativity paintings that were very elaborate because the artists could be quite imaginative
and they could show off their skills with colors and costume. But of course, the magi are
our Zoroastrian priests. And we only have that in the book of Matthew. And notice the star
in the distance. We only have the star in the book of Matthew. In fact, Derek, I thought I might
read a paragraph from my book where I talk about this particular episode with Matthew.
Matthew 2.1 to 12 claims that a star let a group of wise men to the infant Jesus.
Such a star is not mentioned in any of the other three Gospels.
Nor is it mentioned in any of the secular history or science of the time,
such as Seneca's Natural Questions, circa 65 CE, or Pliny the Elder's Natural History,
circa 80 CE. It is, moreover, implausible on its face. Only a star emitting a single precision
beam could lead people to an exact location on Earth. If such a celestial marvel occurred,
wouldn't the entire countryside have followed the beam to discover whatever it was pointing to?
How then could Jesus have grown up in obscurity? And wouldn't it have been easier for Herod's
soldiers to follow that same star rather than kill every boy under the age of two?
Matthew 2.2 So there's actually a reference there to Matthew had the story of the slaughter of
the innocence, which of course is documented nowhere else. In fact, there's a famous
nativity painting, I can't remember the name of it, that shows the slaughter of the innocence
going on in the background. So an attempt to sort of bring all these Matthian elements together.
So yeah, the next problem we want to think about is this issue of, well, if Mary were
a perpetual virgin, then how do we explain the fact that Jesus had brothers and sisters?
And the Book of Mark in particular, the Gospel of Mark in particular, Jesus has at least six
siblings because there's one passage where four of the brothers are named and there's reference to
plural sisters. So that's at least two, so six in all. And of course, we've got the traditional
sexism there that the males are named. And the females not only are they not named, but they're
not even enumerated. But let's leave that subject. So how do we deal with that? And there are several
traditional approaches. If you look at the left side of the screen here,
the approach favored by the Eastern Orthodox Christian is that these were siblings, these
siblings were offspring of Joseph from a previous marriage before he married Mary. There's another
tradition that says that John the Baptist's parents, Elizabeth and Zechariah, well, it says
that Elizabeth was a sister of Anna, because that's not biblical, but that's a tradition,
which makes John the Baptist then some sort of a cousin. And so John the Baptist's brothers and
sisters would have been cousins. And so when the Gospel refers to Jesus's brothers and sisters,
they were using the term in a looser, broader sense. And then finally, most Protestants are happy
to say that Mary was not a perpetual virgin, and that Jesus's siblings were indeed brothers and
sisters from Mary that came along later. The next issue that I wanted to talk about, and this is
sort of a famous painting. It's a very old version of Madonna and Child. And of course,
it's been copied many times and made into icons. In this particular picture, the baby Jesus is
pulling away the veil from his mother. And the story has it, or the common interpretation
is that she has a sorrowful expression because she has foreknowledge of the crucifixion,
kind of an interesting story. But anyway, Theotokos means God-bearer or mother of God.
Now, that's kind of curious, because at least on the surface creates this circle that says,
well, God is the creator of human Mary, but the human Mary is the mother of God. And this created
a huge controversy in the early church. A bishop named Nestorius came up with a view
called Christakos, in contrast to Theotokos, which was that Mary was the mother of Jesus's human
nature, but not of his defined nature. But that particular view, it kind of solved the problem,
but it was declared heretical because it was sort of separating the two
natures of Jesus. So the only other way to make this work is to say, well, Mary is the mother of
Jesus's divine nature incarnate, not his divine nature eternally. But if that's the case, then
his divine nature, it seems to be there's an equivocation on the term divine nature, or at
least on what a mother is. So not really traditionally giving birth, but really just being a portal
for this eternal divine nature. Anyway, interesting topic there. And then lastly,
we have this problem of original sin. And the issue is this, is if Jesus was born of Mary,
he would have inherited original sin from from Mary, because it's something that human beings
carried. And Jesus needed to be flawless. And so the doctrine arose. And a lot of people get this
confused. The immaculate conception is not of the conception of Jesus. The immaculate conception
is the conception of Mary. So when her parents conceived her, God made a one time intervention
in the propagation of original sin, and prevented Mary from catching it, if you will. And so Mary
didn't have original sin, and consequently Jesus did not have original sin. Of course, the obvious
question asked then as well, if God could do that for Mary, why didn't he just sort of do that for
everybody? And then he could have avoided the whole incarnation crucifixion rigmarole. But that's
another, that's another question. So those are some of the difficulties with the, with the doctrine.
And that really brings us full circle to, well, what have been the, the implications of the
consequences of this, this set of beliefs. And just as a reminder, you know, early on,
sex was for reproduction, right? God said, be fruitful and multiply. There was nothing wrong
with, with being naked. So these were kind of the earliest, earliest views. The, the fall in the
Garden of Eden was because of disobedience. It wasn't because of sex. But about five centuries,
four or five centuries after the time of Jesus, a different and sterner view came into being.
This was really the view of Augustine, Christians call him St. Augustine. And I just love this
picture. This is by Botticelli. And it's Augustine in his study. And you can see how oversized he
looks. I just love that. And Derek, you mentioned something about pulling back the curtain earlier.
Well, here we, here we see the doctrine being created. Sort of the, the oversized image of Augustine
is really indicative of his importance in, in Christian theology. Now, Paul had this idea
that this original sin of disobedience brought suffering and death into the world. But around
400 CE, we have this, this idea being elaborated upon by Augustine, in which the disobedience
has really corrupted humans nature and it's propagated by sexual intercourse.
So Augustine really sexualized the fall. He linked disobedience with sex. And he had this,
this really interesting take, particularly on male sexuality. He was dismayed by how male,
the male sexual function occurs. And he had this view that sexual arousal was something that was
not intended. So in Eden, sexual arousal on the part of the male was just like
raising or lowering one's hand. So arousal wasn't required. As a result of the fall,
what he called concupiscence or this sexual lust then was both evidence of and punishment for
human transgression in Eden. And so the message coming out of all of this was that
celibacy is better than sex. And of course, virginity is the best of all.
And as this view developed, there came to be this idea of Mary as the second Eve.
So just as Jesus was the first, was the second Adam, who kind of lived the life that,
the flawless life that Adam should have lived. Here we have Mary seen as living the life of
obedience in the way that Eve should have lived. So Mary is the second Eve. And you can see here
in this picture, you can see Mary is on the left and Eve is on the right. And they've got this tree
with the serpent. And you can see that the fruit of the tree of Eve is death. You can see the skull
there. Whereas the fruit of the tree of Mary is life through the crucifixion, ironically, via death.
But you can see the befuddled male figure sitting in the middle. And his job is to choose between
them, to choose between disobedience and Eve or obedience and Mary. Again, the message here is
that sexuality is bad and particularly female sexuality needs to be controlled.
So again, yeah, there's something about Mary. We come full circle.
Shame and ignorance are still cultural forces today. And there are some religious leaders who would
like to see all young women as clueless as this Palestinian 13 year old we see here.
So that's the that's the presentation. Maybe we can maybe we can turn to some questions.
There's a lot there that you covered. And I'm sure we could rabbit trail into various
plans. I don't want to spend too much more time discussing this in particular. However,
I know I want to leave this out there for the audience after they get your book and see this
presentation and stuff to give us their thoughts, give us some comments, especially if you're a
Patreon member of mine. Let me know if you have any questions for Bill, and we can definitely do
a live and get questions asked and whatnot down the road. In particular, what I found interesting
about the virgin birth and when you did this presentation, there's this debate between Jews
and Christians about the Isaiah seven 14 situation. And it's obvious Isaiah seven's talk
about a different context. Christians always have some way of saying double fulfillment or
that's a shadow of the reality to come. And you know, there's always something. But what else is
not a shadow is the continuous context also going to continue to come in the future, you know,
like the whole context that you see in Isaiah seven 14 isn't pulled over by Matthew. It's
only these choices. Yeah. So I agree with the Jews 100% on that. However, I don't also conclude
what Jews believe about these these miraculous claims of their own religion. But the virgin
birth idea not being compatible with the genealogy, not being compatible with the siblings,
just not being of the line of Joseph. It makes me, you know, what I mentioned here,
when we had a little difficulty, it makes me think of Dr. Carrier and then the historicist
and showing that either way you take, you have a problem, you either have an angel that's coming
down and becoming incarnate, or you hemorrhized, if you will, and he's being brought down to earth.
However, if he is an angel or a semi divine being of some sort, let's say a demigod,
how is he the line of David? How is he human? How is he connected to the line of David if
he's from Mary? Then the other way around is saying, this was a real historical person.
Something happened. Either the mom was unfaithful or, you know, we could talk about
Kelsus and bring this topic up just briefly about him claiming that a Roman soldier
actually slept with Mary. She might have mistaked him for the husband or whatever it might have
been. She gets pregnant by a Roman centurion of some sort named Pantera, I believe. And here comes
Jesus. And you mentioned at the beginning the whole blood that they would pretend and trick
people with blood to say, you broke my virginity. Well, that obviously isn't the case here because
they know she's, or maybe it is. I don't know. They don't really go into that because...
There's very little about the actual mechanics of the whole thing. And there's an interesting
story about that. The tradition arose around 350 that the Holy Spirit entered Mary through her
ear. And so there's some artwork. And in fact, I might even have an image of it. I can show you
of this conception via the ear showing the Holy Spirit, of course, is almost always a dove.
So the dove is going into the ear. And actually, in the Middle Ages, there were women who would
be sure that their ears were covered because of this sort of idea that the ear was a potential
sexual organ. No excuses is what the guys are trying to say. There is no excuses for you to get
pregnant. Yeah. In fact, oh, I have to tell you this funny story. Can we pull up a couple more
slides? Absolutely. Here we go. Yeah. So can you see this okay, Derek? Yes. Yes. So this is a story
from the Talmud. And, you know, you can't make this stuff up. So this is actual, I'm quoting the
Talmud here. So somebody came before the rabbi and said, my master, I've had intercourse with my wife
and I've not found any blood. So that's a problem, right? Now, she, the wife is there.
My master, I am still a virgin. So what the heck is going on here now? Go back to what I said about
the time of birth. The girls would have been 13 or 14. The boys were probably not much older.
They would have been a little bit older. So two very young people here, and perhaps with not
much instruction. So here's where it gets really funny. So the rabbi, the rabbi is going to conduct
a scientific experiment. So he says, bring me two handmaids, one a virgin and one not.
So he placed the handmaids on top of a big cask of wine. And with the non-virgin,
he could smell the wine through her breath, right? Because there was an unimpeded
flow of the aroma through her body. The hymen, the hymen is blocking or either not,
it's not blocking the aroma of the wine. Right, right. So he could be describing the wine as having
a hickory and charcoal aroma or whatever. So then with the virgin, the wine smell did not go through.
Right, so he's doing a little bit of scientific method here. So now that he's established the
efficacy of this technique, he placed the young wife on the cask and he confirmed that the smell
did not go through. So he's essentially concluded that there was an inexperienced attempt at
intercourse here and that things did not actually go perhaps the way they were anatomically intended.
And he reassures the husband, he says, go, be happy with your bargain. In other words,
you know, keep at it, young man, don't worry about it, everything's okay. I just,
you know, like I said, you can't make this stuff up. Wow, that is hilarious. I mean,
that is super funny. I know that with this to get brought up, but this would have been interesting
because I've heard that in Apollonius of Tiana's mother's birth of him, she went into a field
where flowers and swan surround her. And she gets impregnated by these swan that like literally
surround her in this meadow, if you will, or something. And then they fly away and here she
is impregnated with Apollonius is, you know, in her womb. Now, that sounds like a virgin birth.
I don't know if there's narrative prayer or after I just heard this. So I could be wrong.
But it's almost funny that a bird flying, you know, it just an Apollonius is one of those weird,
very close, too close to home for Christians to play the game with. But they'll always say, oh,
you know that he borrowed from the Christian story. There's no way that, you know, could happen the
other way around. It's always got to be the one way. But I thought it was interesting what you
said about the Gentiles, though. That is the biggest thing was to me, because I think it's not
expressed enough. There was a recent documentary that I actually interviewed the main person on.
What was this documentary called? I can't even think right now, but it takes on the evolution.
Like you mentioned in your first charts, Mark and Paul don't really talk about any
virgin birth at all. They just say he was incarnated. They didn't say virgin birth.
Then Matthew and Luke come on and they're like, Hey, we're going to make sure that this guy has
virgin birth going on. And John just has him like full God mode. But
and that's an interesting question. Why didn't John who almost certainly would have been familiar
with Matthew and Luke or the oral tradition from which they drew? Why didn't John have
a nod at least to the virgin birth? And it may have been that by the time
by the time John came along, that this sort of whole Messiah virgin birth issue had kind of
become a non issue for the Gentiles. And that people were talking about the eschaton,
pardon me, people were talking about the eschaton as a sort of a supernatural thing as opposed to
a calming of God's kingdom on earth. Hmm. That is super important because John does have
he has realized eschatology taking place. And whereas Matthew and Luke seem to be looking
forward to a soon Luke seems to sometimes sound realized, like the kingdom of God is in you and
things like that. But it sounds like realized eschatology. And then Matthew and Mark are still
anticipating what appears to be any day now. It's all the most. But any day now, any day now,
then John's almost like it's here. It's almost like he spiritualized the failure of the apocalypse.
But exactly. And the other thing to point out is, you know, with the Gentile piece is it's very,
I think, you know, Matthew was chafing at Augustus by the by his his the way he he referred,
he was referring to Jesus as, you know, the Lord, the Savior, the Son of God. I think he was,
he was saying, you know, we're not buying this stuff. And of course, Herod, who the Rome had
appointed to oversee Judea, he hated the Jews. And one of the first things he did is he brought
shields into the temple that said something about the divine Augustus.
So talk about being in your face with, you know, with with with the Roman
civic religion being imposed on the Jews. So it would be natural for Matthew to be
creating a counter polemic. This is interesting, because this ties into the virgin story. But
I want to bring this to your attention just to see what your thoughts are, especially since you've
really immersed yourself in this in this whole thing. I had interviewed Rabbi Tobias Singer,
who's a Jewish apologist. Pretty much he's trying to keep Christians to leave Jews alone. You know,
he's like, hey, oh, sure, I'm familiar. Yeah, he calls it counter missionary work. Yes. Yes,
he wants to try and, you know, keep Christians' hands off Jews and especially the whole movement
that was happening in Israel recently with God TV and whatnot. The Christians were trying to get Jews
in Israel to convert. And so he's like, no, not having it. Well, I had him and Dr. Robert
McNair Price come on and we did a show where we talked about anti-Semitism in the New Testament.
John seems to be what everyone says is the worst. But Rabbi said, actually, you really need to look
at Matthew. And, you know, he's like, well, it might be there. Dr. Price isn't closed off.
But the way that Rabbi Singer described it, I thought was interesting because he said,
what happens in the story is you have these magi come. They're looking for the Christ.
They have a direct GPS by star taking them there. And they still stop at Herod's Palace to ask where
the newborn king is, but they know the star is going to take them there. So why did they stop?
He said. And the reason they stopped was a jab at how ignorant the Jews were. Now,
you could say what you said is Herod doesn't like the Jews, but he was the king of the Jews.
And just like the Pharisees get blamed, just like all the leadership gets blamed in Matthew and
Mark and really all the Gospels, really. Herod is kind of a representative head of the Jews and
saying, hey, they're trying to kill the Lord. And it's an anti-Semitic message. And so he said
that notice they stop and then he wants to kill them. And they're like, well, we'll let you know
if we find them and they go off to find the Lord and they give him the gifts and everything.
And then they come back and they don't tell him where the Lord is. If I'm not mistaken, they avoid
going back to his palace. They avoid going back, as I recall. Yeah. I mean, I have a different
read on that because Matthew puts in his gospel and it's only in his gospel that's nowhere else
the slaughter of the innocents, whereas Herod's going around killing all the
that, you know, any male child under the age of two.
So the way he would probably turn that, though, is to say, notice Jews were killing,
they were looking to kill their own Messiah. So he'll still try to say, this is anti-Semitic,
by saying, even the Jews wanted to kill their own, their own and their own receives him not.
Like it's like very in his eyes, it's extremely anti-Semitic and it's what caused so much
throughout history against the Jews is this whole message that your Christ killers, you killed your
own Lord and all that kind of stuff. So I could be wrong. I just wanted to like poke in there to let
you see that he would still take that as anti-Semitic to say, like you could argue and Dr. Price said,
well, I think it's a leadership thing. I don't think it's the whole umbrella like it is in John.
In John, it literally is calling out the like race of Jews. And in Matthew, it doesn't seem like
it's calling out the race of Jews, but only the leadership. But anyway, I just thought it was
interesting. Yeah, I want to I want to just read to you a quick excerpt again from my book here,
where I talk about. Yeah, this is interesting. So
consider Christianity's interpretation of the Jewish Bible slash Old Testament as a text whose
meaning can be understood only retroactively through the lens of Jesus's career. The Jews
refusal to interpret their own scripture the way that Christians want to interpret it
constitutes a challenge to the Christian interpretation. For Christianity, a viable
alternative interpretation is a source of insecurity. A healthy and vibrant Judaism
living that alternative interpretation imperils the entire Christian worldview.
The Jews had to be discredited and the men who wrote the Gospels obliged. The author of Matthew
put into the mouth of the Jewish mob, the cry, his blood is on us on on our children. So that's
really yeah, that's pretty right there to me. That's that's quite damning. But this virgin birth
virgin birth thing, if I mean, it's it's apparent that this is a like non Jewish concept that's
being brought in, though he is trying to do this genealogy thing. Why do you think they did that?
Do you have any hunch on what you think the genealogy is there for? Well, I just think that
early on in the oral tradition, there was a strong element of Jesus being the long promised
Messiah. And so in order to have those credentials, you had to be
born of David of the House of David, or as later, apologists would put it adopted into
the House of David. Yeah, so it's interesting. Yeah, I mean, it's you can you can argue that
both ways. It's so weird because Paul in Galatians three, which goes really early, he is making this
wild case, what appears to be arguing with whoever's in Galatia, which may be Jews in the diaspora,
but might be just Gentiles. And he's saying to them, you are that there was a promise to Abraham
that the nations and that you are the seed, because the one seed, not seeds, plural, like
peoples is Christ of Abraham. And how can it be if he's not an actual descendant? Well,
then again, you could argue, well, he's from Abraham, he's not from David, but it just blows
me away like he's trying to constantly make cases that he's from Abraham. Oh, and he's also from
David. But how's he from David? He's not Joseph's son. They should have fabricated a Mary lineage.
And I think in the Hellenistic age, Jews were making matriarchal connections more common,
not just patriarchal. I could be mistaken here, but I think Romans were more matriarchal in their
connecting of things, which might be why the pagan church made Mary into what she was,
could be, I don't know. But I'm just throwing ideas out there to like get your thoughts on it.
Yeah, there's a lot there. I mean, I want to go back to this adoption idea. It was in the Roman
Empire. Adoption was like really important. In fact, the adopted son was off. That was the way
successors to the emperor were chosen, like the emperor would adopt some promising young man,
and that would become his son, and he'd become the next emperor. But I'm not aware that that was
the case within Judaism. I mean, you could make the case that there are some examples. But as you
point out, and I talk about that question of interpreting seed versus singular versus plural
in my book, I mean, you can't get much more biological than that. I mean, that's really
an anti-adoption piece of information. So yeah, I mean, that's what makes it interesting. It just
kind of this stuff has so many levels to it. It does. And that's what that wrestle between
historicists and mythicists never ends, because is there really a guy? Was he just a celestial?
What's up? My view on that, I just, since we need to wrap up here pretty quickly, but
the kind of people ask me, well, are you a mythicist or are you a historicist? And my view is, well,
if you're a mythicist, what you're saying is 100% of the story is made up. But if you believe, as I
do, that Jesus was probably historical, but that 90% of the story was made up, it's not really that
big a deal whether 100% was made up or 90% was made up. So I don't get real excited about that.
Either way, a lot of it's made up. Yeah, I just like, I was a mythicist. And then,
as I keep studying, I become more personally convinced what makes the most sense is there was
a guy, and then what they did with the story and narrative, especially when it got in the hands of
the Gentiles. So I guess the final thing I'll make a comment on, because I want to leave some of the
comment section down below. I want the audience to interact, and I want to see excitement come from
them in future shows where you and me can definitely hang out with them, talk live,
or even do another presentation and then take questions. This Gentile thing is so pivotal in
this movement. What it did was alter the entire world of Christianity or of this what we're finding.
In fact, I don't know if there would ever be Gospels really written if there wasn't a Gentile
movement. Dennis R. McDonald's works kind of show this Hellenistic, Homeric, Odyssey, Iliad,
the Aeneid, what not connections exactly in what you were describing earlier during your
presentation about. They had to know these things when they were learning the language.
But I suspect just from Dennis's work, maybe there was more influence there. And if there was
influence not just from reading about Homer, but let's make Jesus better, a better version of the
Hebrew characters in the Old Testament, a better version than the pagan characters in the charts
that you listed, where you were showing the different virgin births and you're like, look,
all the composites we take from all these other Hellenistic heroes and divine beings and some
non-divine. And then you take the composite narratives we find from the Jesus story, you get
all them checked. Well, in the reverse order, you get the same thing. And I wonder if they're
making Jesus better than all of them by checking off every box and then compositing or putting
together this narrative. It's just fascinating. So what influence would you say the Gentiles had
on the virgin, this whole virgin birth and then we'll end it? Yeah, I mean,
you know, because you get into all sorts of debates about the dating of when these things were written.
But I talk about in my other presentation, the huge event was the
siege and destruction of Jerusalem in 70 AD. So the leadership of the Jewish wing of the Jesus
movement was pretty much obliterated. And it became Paul's product at that point. And Paul was taken
the message to the Gentiles. And, you know, you can talk about, you can even sort of read
Paul bringing, you know, Paul bringing money to the Church of Jerusalem. You can kind of see that
as you're basically basically buying the Gentile franchise. And, you know, once one and so,
and Paul was very much a cosmopolitan, he was a Roman citizen, fluent, fluent in Greek,
clearly an impassioned proselytizer. And he was he was living with these Gentiles from a certain
point forward. And so his own perspective, not to mention what they heard was only what he said,
but what they heard and what they made of what he said, that all became then, you know, the
snowball that rolled down the hill. And here we are. There's so much I would love to just
talk with you about, Bill, this is amazing. You really shocked me with this presentation and
thinking about the the impact that Gentiles may have had on the entire narrative. I thought
about speaking in tongues and how Dr. Price just in our last episode said, if you go into the Greek
world, the oracles of Delphi, they spoke in tongues, but name a Jewish like tell me where
speaking in tongues was a Jewish thing. So the impact is Paul's talking to Gentiles. And if
that's the earliest evidence we have of the movement, not saying we have evidence through him
of his enemies or his foes or his competition. But man, if we could find something that was
actually written by the actual competition, that would be a game changer, I think on seeing what's
going on here. Indeed, I would. All right, ladies and gentlemen, go and get the book. It's down in
the description. You can get it on ebook for like two ninety nine. I just got it for the show. I'm
going to be definitely checking that out. Bill, let's do more presentations. This was fantastic.
Go to seeing through Christianity dot com. Check out his website. Show him some love.
Hit that thumbs up. Go check out podcast, Patreon. Guys, I'm going to be launching this early there.
And then, of course, it's going to go public. Bill, thank you so much. You have any final words?
All right. No, I'm good. I appreciate you having me on, Derek, all the best.
Thank you so much. We are the fish.
