Son, do you want to know what the truth is?
After this, there's no turning back.
You take the blue pill and you wake up in your bed and believe whatever you want to.
You take the red pill and you stay in Wonderland and I show you just how deep the rabbit hole goes.
Remember, all I'm offering is the truth.
Nothing more.
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh
oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh
That's right, smash that like button, ladies and gentlemen, Derek Lambert, MythVision Podcast.
I know I'm enthusiastic, excited, actually, I'm quite sick right now.
I don't know what came over me.
Over the past five, six days, I've been fighting this cold, earache, I'm on antibiotics, I'm
just trying to survive.
I'm waiting for a Jesus to come by and just hum my Magashi Mababa and boom, let the sucker
go.
I mean, no joke, clean in the ear, you know, after I get out of the tub, blood.
Haven't had blood come out of my ear since I was a kid.
My mom had to put tubes in my ears and I'm recording these scripts and it's almost like,
and so he went down to the street and like, I feel like I don't even sound right.
But, you know, when the good news comes, the reliability of the legend and mythology
of the Gospels, you've got to convey this, you've got to spread it and scream it from
the rooftops so people could stop being afraid of places like hell and the control factor
that comes from many fundamentalist ideas, even years after people leave, it still has
a grip on them.
And so I love learning about legends, myth, allegory, things that aren't literally the
case, especially in literature that is like, held above the rest by people's worldviews.
Remember, I was the one who used and abused people around me, did not think I was abusing
them, I thought I was saving them with the Bible and my particular worldview went from
kind of a non-denominational, more spiritual, charismatic Christian who believed God wanted
everybody to be saved, he loved everybody, he wanted to do his best, is how I looked
at it, crossed some Calvinist along the way and got more theologically minded and there
were certain passages I couldn't deny looked very deterministic.
I didn't know anything about Second Temple Judaism, I didn't know anything about some
of these ideas that I know now and I became a Calvinist and I have a special guest that's
coming on in a minute, don't worry, I see you, I see you behind the scenes my friend,
but I just, I want to convey that like, I used it as a weapon thinking it was going
to save my family and my wife, I got to get my partner Ryan, the queen who really makes
everything possible, without her I'm nothing, literally, woe is me, I need to get her story
sometime, I really need to get her story so you can hear it from the horse's mouth exactly
what it was like because I can tell you and I can't express because I wasn't the one doing
the harm, I can tell you what kind of harm it did to me in my own mind, but to say how
it was used and abusive to my own family, that's a whole other thing.
So I've gone a little bit past the whole chip on my shoulder, anti-theistic, anti-Christian
to the point where like, it almost seems like I just hate the literature and I'm at a point
where I'm actually valuing the cleverness of authors.
Now I'm in, I'm at like this crossroads and my guest is going to appreciate this when
they come on, I'm sure they wrestle with this from time to time, maybe they're way past
this, but I wrestle between, did these authors intend to try and dupe you into thinking these
are real histories, meaning the authors know that they're making stuff up, but they want
the reader to be convinced, kind of like what Lit was saying, how the Gospels became history,
or if you go with Dr. Miller and thinking these are Coltik, mythology types, they have
a blend of genre, because there's no defined definitive genre at this time, like it's
not absolutely this is this and this is this, but ultimately that they're Coltik mythography's
origin stories on the Christian movement, and I wrestle between these ideas.
If Lit was right, that means to me they lied, the authors intentionally are trying to convince
you of something and they're lying, bottom line.
The other option is giving more leniency to the literature and allowing it to be Coltik,
allowing it to say, this is insider literature for the people who are believers, who are
in the community, and therefore gives more leniency in the authors to say, hey, we're
writing fanciful, passionate material for our Lord, and they're not necessarily writing
what claim to be this is what actually happened historiographies, I may be missing something,
and so I'm going to bring our guests on now, and we're going to have a hangout conversation
with you.
I hope to get to super chats.
Let's have some fun while I can before my voice probably gives out.
Welcome to MythFusion, Christy Hansen.
How are you?
Hi, I'm doing good, how are you?
Doing really good.
Before we went live, I just want to make a note that there's a few people that I harass,
I still harass people in case you were wondering.
There's a few people I harass and I'm like, Christy, I need that source you were telling
me about, the one about Elijah and Elisha, and then they're like, oh, no problem.
It's this, that, and then it harasses me every day.
The courts still haven't gotten back on the paperwork yet.
No.
Seriously, though, thank you everybody who's tuning in.
Hit the like button.
If you're enjoying it so far and you're wanting to see where the conversation goes, press one
in the chat.
Let me know that you're here and you're checking us out.
Christy, did you catch the last part of where I'm at in my, what is going on with this material?
Yeah, trying to figure out essentially where do the gospels land in terms of the honesty
of the authors and their intentions.
Right.
Where are you at on this?
I know you've read far more than I have.
I personally think that it's a bit of a non-starter in a way.
I don't think that it, so in, for instance, I don't think that the, in the ancient world,
we necessarily drew a lot.
There's this, not really this line between honest, like what we would consider like at
honest factual reporting and fictionalizing and then just also mythologizing.
All of these are just kind of expected.
And I think that our binary ideas of truth, false, you know, telling the truth, telling
the lie is not actually adequate for describing what happens here.
Like, for example, say I'm writing a piece of fiction and I'm writing, you know, potentially
deliberate fiction, and I'm writing a novel.
Novels are not factually true.
Did I lie when I wrote a novel?
No.
Novels are not meant to be taken as literally true.
Even if they're being passed off in a way to grant them authorizing intent or idea,
like it's not hard to find novels that present story, present themselves as having been true
stories, but that's part of the genre.
Like, so for example, a novel, like, for example, Lord of the Rings, actually, Lord
of the Rings opens up with a little meta near in the prelude, a little meta bit about the
Red Book that supposedly gets passed down after Bill Bo Frotto and Sam have all written
down their records and annals in it, and then is eventually passed down and Tolkien is translating
from it.
In fact, Tolkien went as far as to even make facsimile copies of different sources in there.
So like, the scene in Lord of the Rings where they're in Moria and they find the book with
the records of the colony before it was wiped out, and it's like the ground shakes, drums,
drums in the deep, and it's written in the dwarf Ori's hands.
Tolkien made copies of those pages because part of the entire illusion of this is that
it is an illusory history.
So even in a way you could say the Gospels could originally been understood to fit this
kind of genre, and later they get solidified and miss.
Yeah, like when we're going into the genre of like ancient Greco-Roman bio-wee, these
are very much a genre of entertainment in a way, at least from what I perceive them to
be and what I've read.
The way that they're written, the way that they are styled and have these self-authorizing
fictionalizations, like I've gathered these from eyewitnesses who we don't know.
We'll never know.
That's kind of the point, is it's authority without having to give anyone a way to verify
that, and in no small part because these are just stories.
No one is going to be going back and trying to check sources for Romulus when Plutarch
writes a biography of Romulus, and no one's going to do that for Theseus or any others.
That's beyond the scope of what they're actually doing in that genre.
The genre of like a Greco-Roman bio-wee is, the biography is just, it's not ever written
to be strictly historical in the first place.
Ancient people just didn't have those strictures, even when they are writing strict historiography
like Tacitus.
They are still mythologizing and fictionalizing things freely because not only is that just
what you did, it's just outright expected because you're trying, your goal is to invent
a new narrative with thematic overtones that fits your specific agendas and will also be
presentable to your audiences.
So Tacitus outright does invent things.
We have ancient authors when they cannot, when there is no record of what a Roman emperor
would have said during a specific event, they make speeches up that would fit the occasion.
That is the standard of what they did.
So to draw this line between they're lying to us and trying to get us to believe fictions
or just writing fiction or never intended for it to be fiction, it's just a blurry line
that I think is far too nuanced to have any kind of binary true false answer.
It's way beyond that.
The ancient world, it has a very complex idea of history.
Ancient writers do not have the strictures of factual reporting that we deem to be good
history today.
So when you hear apologists talk about reportage models of the Gospels and...
I learned that.
Okay, so, all right, before we get this, this is good.
I want to show people real quick, I titled this, The Gospels Myths and Legends, and you
go like, people might go, well, how are you defining this?
And I kind of wanted to just pull up what I saw Google say about myth.
And of course, we know the one where it's just false, and that's not the, look, you
can draw that conclusion if you want at the end of the day, but that's not the definition
I'm aiming for here.
A traditional story, especially one concerning the early history of a people, and I would
consider these Gospels to be kind of myth origins of the Christian movement, and of course
their founding figure, playing a significant role with that definition, or explaining some
natural or social phenomena and typically involving supernatural beings or events.
This is what I mean by myth, and by legend, to give us the definition here, a traditional
story sometimes popularly regarded as historical, but unauthenticated, like the legend of King
Arthur or something like that.
So I'm putting both there, because I think this guy was mythologized, and you have gone
on record, let me put us back on this here, there we go, it feels good with the Dead Sea
Scrolls, since Dr. James Tabor's course just came out too, so I hope people sign up for.
But like you've gone on record and said, look, I think there was a guy, in fact you have some
things coming, I'm not going to burst the bubble because it's not my place, it is yours,
and I look forward to you and others, we will not name names, making that happen.
But as far as the idea of Jesus, you think there was a guy, but you've gone on record
saying in the Gospels, you go further than most from what I understand, and saying like,
we don't even know if for sure he was baptized by this guy named John, like you are questioning
the very basics of what people accept, can you elaborate?
Yeah, so I think that, so I'm writing on this right now, but one of the things that I think
is one of the most, an absolute detriment to the study of early Christian literature
and Christian origins in general, is this over a zealous desire to try and find a historical Jesus
or a historical Jesus movement and reconstruct it in some way, or to find themes and ideas
from the Gospels that may go back to them. All due credit to the scholars wanting to do this,
I think that under better circumstances, this would be fine, like we're trying to do that with
Julius Caesar, where we have a lot better documentation at our disposal, this would be fine.
But where, but the problem that we have with the Gospels is that we are starting off with
Greco-Roman, Bioe, if we're going with Dr. Robin Faith Walsh's categorization, specifically like
a subversive biography potentially. And these biographies are inherently unreliable documents.
They are prone throughout to fictionalizing. I brought up the, in fact, you can bring up the
cases, like Cetonius says, all 12 of the 12 Caesars. All 12 of those of those biographies
are legendarized to a T. Most, like half of them have some extraordinary event happening at their
birth. There are portents and prophecies about their deaths, portents and prophecies about their
reign. Every single thing you can think of happens. Like this is, they are, and not to spoil much for
later, but there's, there's a very specific trait that Jesus and these Caesars are going to share,
which a future publication coming hopefully soon is going to elucidate. Interesting. But
these figures are, I apologize, there's a cat about to jump up behind me.
The cat needs attention, so we don't mind. Yeah, yeah. He's number one. Here's Artemis.
Aw. He, he loves attention and he will get it because he doesn't take no for an answer.
So anyways, we're dealing with a genre of writings that are inherently
hinged on fictionalizing things all the time. Just, it is expected of the genre. And it's to
the extent that we in, like in some of these cases when dealing with historical figures,
don't know really anything that we can reliably say about them. Maybe just like a few biographical
tidbits here and there. So the example that I've been specifically discussing is specifically
Socrates and the Socratic problem. Because, so the Socratic problem is essentially the attempt
to try and reconstruct what the historical Socrates wrote about or said about philosophy,
what his teachings were, and various portions of his life. And what classical scholars and
classical philosophers have found is that you can't really do a whole lot of anything with
the sources at hand. Plato and Xenophon, the two students of Socrates that wrote about him,
both have their own very explicit agendas on what they write. And both completely fictionalize
everything. He is essentially just a mouthpiece for their own philosophy. He doesn't have any
specific personhood of his own in those stories that's been being retained. To the extent that
there is severe skepticism on just about everything, including even the details of his trial and death.
Like, let's be realistic. No one believes the story of Socrates having a philosophical dialogue
with people he knew while he's sitting in prison awaiting death by hemlock is complete ludicrous
fiction. It never happened. It is specifically only there to elucidate the philosophy of Plato.
That is why it's been made. It is a fiction, purely and simply. And because of this,
there's actually quite a bit of essentially aspersion of even trying to reconstruct his
life and teachings. In the Cambridge companion to Socrates, in fact, the opening chapters
specifically all about this problem. And they basically just say people who want to undertake
the Socratic problem have their work cut out for them. And most scholars don't think it's even worth
it. And that is essentially where I met with Jesus. I think that the focus on trying to figure out
what a historical Jesus said did, what happened in this distant path or, well, not distant,
but in the past and everything. 30, 40 years, something like that, yeah.
We're not dealing with us. We're not dealing with these students. We're not dealing with
eyewitnesses. As much as Luke wants to say he has eyewitness testimony, he doesn't tell us
who these people are. And we know for a fact that people just made up that all the time.
Tacitus does that. He says that there's eyewitnesses that still test to the miracles
of espaisy. And even when there's no reason to still do so in his own time. And it's like,
okay, who are they? We know you're full of crap. There are no eyewitnesses.
It's almost like a literary tool. It is. Because essentially what you do is,
in the ancient world, David S. Potter and A.J. Woodman and a few others all talk about this
in their commentaries on Tacitus. But essentially what you do is you cite unnamed vague octores,
and writers, and eyewitnesses as a way to just validate your claims. But the brilliance of
doing it without saying who they are is no one can check what you say. And they specifically do
that on points where they think that people might have some question about their validity.
So you cite vague authors that have no names attached to validate your authority.
And because they can't be checked, it's an automatic authorizing claim.
The authors, the historians, say that I'm right, or something like that. These eyewitnesses attest
to this. Or you may even go as far as to just make up entire stories about how you got a source.
This is how the phylostratus's biography of Apollonius goes, actually. He makes up a source
about how he inherited tablets, wooden tablets, that were written on by a follower of Apollonius.
And that's where his primary source documents come from. And he makes up an entire story about
how they went from that student all the way to him hundreds of years later. It's complete nonsense.
He made it up. And we know he made it up because that exact story pops up two other times in
novelistic fiction literature of the era, even using the same terminology.
So just by comparing, again, we're getting to something that I love talking about with someone
like you who's going to completely understand and be able to chew it and spit it out in a
very easy to understand way. If I want to know what qualifies as fiction, what qualifies as myth
or legend. And I am on the sacred material that there's a living religion around today
that's trying to say, no, no, no, this is real history. This is what actually happened.
And I go to other literature and I use this analogy. It irks Apologist, I imagine. It walks like a duck,
talks like a duck, looks like a duck, smells like a duck. And then I get to the Gospels and say,
this does too. It's a duck. Like, it doesn't work. So they don't like, they don't.
The Gospels are exceptional. And this is a problem that even happens in Jesus scholarship,
even with secular scholars. There is this weird insistence on treating the Gospels not like other
literature. So like, for example, when we are looking at the biographies of Plutarch and other
sources like that, no one is sitting around trying to reconstruct a Q source from them.
No one is sitting around trying to dissect the redactional layers or trying to dissect
what parts stem from oral tradition and stuff like that. That's not going on really.
Unless they're like outright saying that's where they're getting it from. We're not really doing
that. And the reason that we're not doing that is because we know that's not how ancient literature
was made. Robin Faith Walsh has an entire book about this. This is a leftover of German romanticism
where there's this inherent idea of the uncreativeness of the bulk of the people and that
they are essentially preservers of ancient heritage rather than creative makers of it
in and of themselves. And it's a really problematic thing. It goes back to figures like
the brothers Grimm who are going around in a very elitist way trying to find the folk story,
the story of these legends and tales that go back to a more primal German root,
especially in this search for a pre-Christian Germany.
And we're seeing this here, except in this case the search is going for the pre-Christian Jesus.
We're trying to reach back before the Gospels and pull out Jesus from them. And it doesn't work.
And to illustrate a few cases, I actually just published a paper on one case where I think this
really doesn't work. None of our methods work is the baptism of Jesus. In almost all the literature
I have found, virtually everyone just accepts that the baptism of Jesus happened for one reason
because Matthew and Luke think it's embarrassing and maybe John will get there.
Well, if it's embarrassing, why would they make it up?
But this is where they've complete, like even just for a second accepting the validity of the
criterion of embarrassment, which I do not. I think it's nonsense. But even just accepting it
for a second, what are they actually embarrassed at? They are quoting from Mark. They are embarrassed
at Mark, not at a historical tradition going before Mark. That's the problem. So what we need to
is look at Mark. And Mark doesn't show any signs of embarrassment whatsoever. The argument there is,
well, they would never create a story where Jesus is baptized for the remission of sins because Jesus
is sinless in Christian tradition. And they would never invent all these other things that
seem to make Jesus subject to John. And I find the entire idea kind of nonsensical because,
number one, where in the Gospel of Mark does it ever say Jesus was sinless?
I've never read it. Exactly. It doesn't ever. It never says that.
Secondly, even if it did say he was sinless, or if that's the assumption of the author,
and he makes the statement, this is still a ludicrous argument because it just assumes that an
author can't make a mistake. And I dare anyone with any knowledge of fiction to find me any work
that does not have a mistake in continuity, plot, or some other problem. When you find one,
let me know. I haven't. Even the most meticulous works of fiction, like the Lord of the Rings or
the Silmarillion, are littered with these problems all the time. I dare you to read Lord of the Rings
and try and map out how Frodo and Sam's timeline of getting to Mordor and all the events there
with the events of everything else going on. It cannot be done. We know that this is the case
because this was an endless problem for the production of those movies. They were constantly
trying to figure out how to actually splice things together. For example, everyone thinks that the
episode with the spider she-lop happens in Return of the King. This is incorrect. Guess where it
happens? It happens in the two towers in the book. They have constantly had to reorganize everything
in order to make it make any kind of sense chronologically. And this is just what goes on
all the time. So anyone telling me that the Gospel authors couldn't just make a mistake
or just inherently under the assumption that the authors of the Gospels aren't human beings?
I want to back this up a little bit, if I can, because your idea of not trusting necessarily
and you're not denying there could be, I want to pick your brain here because this is something
that I think I'm getting from what you've been saying. But I want to understand why and I want
our audience to see why. I imagine it plays, as you said, these are literary works. These are
literature. These are not historiographies. They are not painting what happened on the Wednesday
at 6 p.m. for real. They're giving you a narrative, a story. I imagine this is why
you're hesitant on assuming the history behind this. Can you break down how reading the Gospels
as a literature, what factors into this that makes you stop and say, I don't know if we're
dealing with anything that is just like, well, that happened, but that's legend. Oh, but that happened,
but that's legend. Can you take us through why you've become so cautious or, in other words,
skeptical of taking these as ways of gleaning or finding kernels of history in them?
Yeah, the reason why is because just looking at the methods that have been used, I cannot find any
that can actually do what we want them to do. So for the long time, for the long time,
recognizing that the Gospels are a form of ancient literature is basically no standard in the field.
This is what the vast majority of scholars readily acknowledge, even Christian ones.
The question is what kind of literature, and the only way to figure that out is what can we say
probably happened. And the only way to do that is to make sure that we have methods that can look
at that literature very carefully and separate the wheat from the chaff.
And that's extremely difficult to do, because there are things that are just blatantly obvious in
the Gospels don't look like history. And if you read them in any other text of history,
you would not accept them. No Christian is sitting there going to accept the claims
that Augustus Caesar was born of Apollo. No one is going to accept the claims that,
at least from what I can tell, like three or four different people were born from their
mothers copulating with snakes. Now, that sounds reasonable, but go ahead.
No one is going to sit here believing that Vespasian was healing the blind, restoring limbs,
and stuff like that. And no one's accepting that Asclepius is sitting in the temples
and healing people while they're asleep, or even when they're awake. We have far better evidence
for every single one of those claims than anything in the Gospels. We have dozens
of eyewitness claims of Asclepius healing, various maladies, injuries, and other issues
that people are suffering from. There is no verified eyewitness attestation of anything that
Jesus did, or of his life. We don't accept that Asclepius did those things. We know that was
probably priest doing it when everyone was asleep, or a placebo effect, which is a real
effect that actually works. And some of those are probably just made up.
Why are we accepting it with the Gospels? Why are we treating the Gospels any differently?
The reason is because everyone's really attached to the Gospels, and there's specific bits that
people just really like. I get it. The baptism up by John is really cool. It's one of the coolest
parts of the Gospels, and it opens up my favorite Gospel mark for those wondering.
But if I read this in a biography of Apollonius, would you believe that it happened? No. No one's
believing that this event that is very clearly mythologized with a spirit dove from God
coming down upon him, and adopting him. Or if you think that Mark has an adoptionist
to Christology, I kind of do. I think it's a little more complicated, but we can get there
when we want to. And no one's also believing it. And unless you're Joel Marcus, because Joel Marcus
I have problems with Joel Marcus' book, but on John the Baptist. But the Gospel mark
deliberately models John off of Elijah. In fact, he quotes portions straight out of
the books of Kings to describe John in Elijah with similar articles of clothing. It is explicit.
He is directly referencing that John is the returned Elijah. Why is this? Because early
Christians believed, and so did potentially some Jewish figures. That's a little bit more
debated. If you want the best book on the subject, in my view. Thomas El Brodie? No.
Well, Thomas El Brodie is one of the best. So on the Elijah Elisha narratives, there are two books.
Which, yeah, Thomas El Brodie's The Crucial Bridge. And Adam Winn's book, Mark and Elijah Elisha
narrative. But on this issue, specifically like on the conceptualizations of Elijah having to return
to anoint the Messiah, Rifkin years. Excellent book. The first Christian believer. It is an
excellent volume. And it goes in depth about this issue. So there's debate about
she argues that there's pretty limited evidence at best that Second Temple Jews were believing
that Elijah had to return. Maybe some evidence of it, maybe, but it is debatable. But early
Christians really did, like, firmly. And by the second century, you get this very explicitly
in the dialogue with trifle. Basically, he says you invented a Christ for
yourselves and Messiah for yourselves. Because Elijah had not come to anoint the Messiah.
So they're saying that Jesus cannot possibly be the Messiah because Elijah has not anointed him.
So that is a very specific point and very specific reason why they might want to have a guy who
baptizes a which to a Gentile could be considered a symbolic anointing
of the Messiah. Jesus. This is a very specific event that you can very clearly see some reasons why
they would invent this kind of a story. And that causes a big problem. If I can come up with
reasons why they would invent the story, what reason do we have for actually thinking it's
historical? The argument from the criterion of embarrassment doesn't work because they're not
embarrassed at a historical reality. They're embarrassed by Mark's narrative. The only possible
exception to this is the Gospel of John. But the Gospel of John doesn't have a baptism.
This is a problem. For me, this is a huge, huge problem. And this is how I'd like to
paint it and love to get your commentary on this. Like you talk about over and over,
we see the fiction. We see evidence of interesting storytelling about Jesus. We see a constructive
narrative. It doesn't sound like he's literally reporting an actual what is going on. It sounds
very story-like. I mean, I was just reading, by the way, going through with the Odyssey,
Book 9, because I wanted to read the polyfamous story and then get into the wee passages of Book
10 of the Odyssey. Then I turned to the Aeneid because our dear friend Robin Walsh was talking about
is it cacus? The beast in the cave with Hercules Roman. So I was reading that. Then I pulled
up Dennis McDonald's and Richard C. Miller's book, and I was going to go through a few things.
I pulled up something interesting I wanted to read. My point is, I'm looking at it and I see
delayed recognition scenes. I see romance myth. I see all this stuff in Homer. I see it not just
in Homer. I even see it in the scriptures, the Old Testament, LXX. I'm saying to myself, this is
quite interesting narrative. If the authors were trying to write something that actually happened,
they kind of screwed the pooch here because getting behind that story, getting behind this
well-structured narrative from a baptism to his death, how do you get behind that? We can see
there's fiction. This is the problem I was trying to say to a lot of apologists when they go,
well, you're denying that they got people places and things right or you're acting like that doesn't
somehow increase its reliability. I'm thinking, the yesterday's video I launched, it was an old
one I recorded with Miller. He mentions, I'd like to turn the question around and ask the apologists
to go find fiction in antiquity that wasn't littered with historical people, historical places,
like really vents and things like that. They probably get some facts wrong along the way or
they fudge them to fit their narrative. But the point is, that's how they wrote it. It was rare
that you found it to be so fictive, Lord of the Rings fictive in the way that it's a whole
another world. They usually paint it with realisms as if it's really happening in the world where
we live in. Yeah, verisimilitude is very important. I didn't want to say the word.
Craig Evans loves that word because for him, his criterion of verisimilitude is one of the
he's like, well, we should definitely believe that these are reliable to some extent at least
because there's so much verisimilitude. There's so many things in the gospels that look and are
accurate to the time period. And it's like, of course there are. They were written in the time
period. Right. And they are taking place in the real world. So of course there's going to be things
a lot of things that line up. That's how you write a good story. You don't write, it's part of
when you write fiction, you want to make sure that you can have your readers suspend their
disbelief and you do that by creating things that are relatable to them. So even with a work of
intense fiction, like say a science fiction novel, there are still a lot of things that are still
relatable. Human make the way that people interact with each other believable because we behave in
certain ways in our cultures. You have to make sure that there are like realistic to an extent
events going on. Or you have to establish enough realism off the bat that when you introduce the
fantastical elements and the elements that are beyond the scope of the believable for your time
that you don't overwhelm them and then their disbelief kicks in. For our time period in a post
enlightenment era where skepticism of the metaphysical and or the spiritual has become
fairly widespread even in mainstream religion. This is something where there needs to be a
lot of that of realistic elements to make us be able to suspend our disbelief of certain things
because otherwise we just immediately start tuning out because we can't believe that this
is at all possible. But if you work people in there through relatable elements then of course
it's going to work. Now in the ancient world they can get away with more fantastical stuff because
that's ingrained in their world. So of course they can start the story off with a spirit baptism
because that's just the world they live in. They lived in a world where the gods regularly
interacted with everyone, where resurrections were happening by the dozen, where miraculous
healings were something happening in the neighboring city. You just went down to the oracle or you
went down to your local temple of Asclepius or you went down to see the temple of Eshmun or
Melchart Heracles or whatever. There's miracles are happening all the time so why would they
have any reason to disbelieve them? This is also something that really kicks in again on that
topic of were they writing lies. This is just part of their world. This does not necessarily
mean that they're lying. This is just what everyone believed was happening. They lived
in a world of gods and monsters that is just unrelatable to how we think of the world today.
In our post-scientific, post-enlightenment, post-naturalism world where the divine has
been thoroughly scrutinized and where everyone knows the name of David Cune,
this is a completely different ball game that we're dealing with.
We are dealing with that when we're dealing with our criterias of how we judge history today,
how we know that things generally have function throughout our observable history,
through our analysis and our data. What is it that we can say likely happened about Jesus?
And the answer is basically nothing because we are dealing with texts that do not function
by those rules. I think that the crucifixion by Pilate is probably the one and only point.
I cannot come up with a satisfactory explanation as to why they would invent that specifically.
Why Pilate specifically? I can understand why they do this with Herod in the Gospel of Matthew
and invent a bunch of stuff with him because Herod is not popular by this time, especially among
Gentiles. And also, when you know that Jesus began his ministry roughly around 30 years old and he
died under the administration of Pilate, it's not hard to extrapolate back. He probably was born
under the reign of Herod. And also, on top of that, you can then extrapolate other things
for your use, especially when you're trying to turn Jesus into the next Moses.
So, I'm going to use the restroom real quick here. But Chrissy, I got to leave you with a question
here. And then when I get back, hopefully we can get to some super chats and hang out and ask the
audience, you know, go back and forth with the audience for help and support and whatnot. The
question I have is, you clearly point out literary imitation of the scriptures, LXX. You know,
been a huge, huge proponent of pushing Dr. Richard C. Miller, pushing Dr. Dennis R. McDonald,
Robin Faith Walsh. I think this classicist New Testament scholars are on the right track because
they're not just stuck in the little confines as we talk about just Jewish literature. I always
look at Dr. 17. I think this author is kind of winking at you too by saying,
even your own poets have said, and then what to say? We move, we breathe. This is Zeus. This is
old material in the Greek world. Clearly, some syncretism or some form of cooperation within
the worldview of maybe Christians themselves thought the pagan literature predicted as well.
Either way, that would mean a nod to their poets who are saying what this
is probably being said. I don't die on that hill, but I think that's Bruce Loudon thought the same
thing. Can you make a case for the audience on why you think the authors are doing it with
non-Jewish literature from Roman or Greeks? Do you want to do this with the audience? Sure.
Yeah. For me personally, I think the best case. I'm not as much sold as Dr. McDonald is that
they're specifically using the Odyssey or the Iliad, but I think they're most certainly using
and retrieving from Roman imperial cultists a lot. You can see this with a lot of different
elements. For example, in the baptism, Jesus is being adopted as the Son of God, and this is his
basically his point of where his inheritance begins, in a sense. Adoption is especially
important in Greco-Roman literature, especially Roman. In fact, adoption is to adopt a child
is actually more important than to have a biological child. When you actually look at the
Roman imperial lineages and the succession of the Caesars, a lot of these Caesars, especially the
early ones, are all actually being adopted. Tiberius is not the biological child of Augustus.
Augustus is not the biological child of Julius Caesar. Caligula is not the biological child of
Tiberius, and Claudius is Caligula's uncle. You're not seeing a whole lot of this, and
Nero is kind of adopted, if I remember correctly. Anyways, you're not seeing the biological
children as the main successors. You're seeing the adopted children. That's the more important
point. God is adopting Jesus as an automatic imperial sign, also the disappearing of the body
and ascension of the Spirit. That is an imperial sign. Having mass bodies reappear is even one.
There is a story in Aurelius Victor, if I remember correctly, where the Senate is debating on whether
or not to grant Hadrian divine status. They're thinking of not doing it because of how awful
the end of his reign was. He killed so many people. The end of Hadrian's reign is one of
just outright paranoia, just mass killing and exiling those that he thinks are against him
with impunity. So the Senate really doesn't like him. But then, mystically, after his funeral,
after he has been cremated and everything, the Senate is visited by all of their dead,
loved ones and friends who have risen up. Now, if that doesn't sound like something out of the
Gospel of Matthew, I don't know what does. There are a lot of different signs throughout.
You also have other things like we are legion and stuff like that. There are very clear points
throughout the Gospels where they are very, very specifically pulling from Gregor Roman literature
and especially imperial literature and imperial cultists. Even the opening of the Gospel of Mark
is very similar to the Praying calendar where it talks about the good news, the Iangelios,
of the Caesar Augustus, who is called the Savior and the Son of God.
It is identical, practically. The entire beginning of Mark is just explicitly out of imperial
cult handbook, throughout. I think the best cases for there being specifically Greek literature
memesis is in the book of Acts. I think that's where Dr. McDonald actually has a lot of his
strongest illusions. I think there's also some strong ones in the Gospel of Luke. I'm not as
sold as he said before as Dr. McDonald is on the Odyssey being a strong base for Mark, but I do see
that there are some fairly convincing illusions every now and then. At the very least, if one
isn't willing to go all the way and say, I think he has Odyssey open over here or Iliad open over
here, they would have known these stories. I don't necessarily buy that they're looking at a
copy of the Odyssey or the Iliad, but they're definitely familiar with them. They're definitely
incorporating some popular portions and bits that they're remembering out of them, in my opinion.
I think that's definitely also the case with the most present thing that would have been
right there, which would have been the imperial cult for them. I think that's where you find the
strongest illusions. The death of Jesus is also extremely close to the disappearance of Romulus.
The sky grows dark. There's a dimness. There's a storm. The sun is blotted out. Then there's mass
confusion about what's happening. Then both of their bodies completely disappear. Then later,
they come back and they visit people and tell them to proclaim that they are divine and sitting
in the heavens or at the right hand of the Father and to share their good news. This is how the
biography of Romulus ends. This is written before Jesus or the Gospels. Livy talks about
this in his writings. I know Dionysus of Heliconarsus talks about this. There's several sources that
mention this. Then shortly after or even contemporaneous is Plutarch.
This isn't the post-mortem ascensions, which you brought up, Suetonius. The birth narratives in
Suetonius, even in the portents of Augustus, which was the man for the Caesars. He was the
man. It almost reminds me in a way of you talk about Plato putting his philosophy in the mouth
of Socrates. I almost feel like some of that's happening with Augustus and Julius.
And David Littwell even goes with the birth narratives. There's even a case where Plato's
belief to have been conceived by the gods, but sexlessly. Right. He did an interview with me
actually talking about this in the same language. I think Plutarch uses denomus and I can't remember
the other word, but power and spirit. The same Greek word in Plutarch talking about the birth of
Plato. And I'm like, what the heck? But I thought about that portent and in that it says, so it
says Julius Marathas records that a few months before Augustus was born a prodigy, a prodigy,
sorry, was generally observed at Rome, which announced the nature was bringing forth the
king for the Roman people. The Senate, he continues, was most alarmed. Who's this sound like? And agreed
that no child born in that year should be raised. What's that mean for the children? You got it
in their lives. They don't want children to be born that year. I wonder what story this sounds
like. I was wondering the same thing. I don't think this will ever be solved. We'll never figure
out what story this looks like. And in fact, in a lot of these stories, in fact, actually,
do I have it here? I think it might be on my other shelf. Robert Jane Miller, different person,
has an entire book on divine birth parallels as well with Jesus. And it's published by
pole bridge. It's extremely interesting. But yeah, the divine birth is exceptionally common,
especially with the imperial cult. Augustus is the son of Apollo. There's divine portents about the
birth of most of the Caesars, I want to say, at least of the 12, except for except for like the
year of the four Caesars. That's like the only one. And Vespasian, because Vespasian is instead
given the trope of the more humble birth, which is another trope in literature. I come from humble
origins, which is more like Jesus in the Gospel of Mark, where there is no story about his birth
at all. He's the son of the carpenter. He is from very humble origins. His family doesn't believe,
thinks he's crazy, which is also another one. Parents liking their kids. That's another common one
in Greco-Roman biography, even leaving their kids out via exposure. That's a really common one.
You can find quite a lot of potential Raglan heroes by looking whether or not their parents
exposed them at birth. It's all exceptionally interesting that way, because you see very clearly
that these are ideas that are circulating all over in the cultural consciousness, and especially
in Greco-Roman literature. And frankly, anyone that does not think that the Gospels are Greco-Roman
literature doesn't know what they're talking about. These are people extremely familiar with
the genre and who are emulating biographies. The only one that doesn't really emulate a Greco-Roman
biography very much or tries to go a more historiographical route explicitly is the Gospel
of Luke. And he's very explicitly trying to make this a more historiographical, I did my due diligence
research kind of thing. What sources did he read? I don't know. He doesn't say, because like a lot of
people making up biographies, he just doesn't want you looking at them too closely. The one that we
do know he probably used was Josephus, because there's just several points at which there is clear
overlap in the book of Acts. And then we know that he copy pasted Mark. And probably Matthew,
in my opinion, I don't like you, if you all have not gathered that yet.
I definitely know that about you. And that's fine. Look, I'm not a dogmatist in any of the
positions. I want to highlight someone that I thought was really an interesting person.
Have you ever heard of Chris Rosser? I hope not. So this is like a Christian writer that I actually
was like, I love what he wrote. I just want to highlight him in case anyone watching says, you
know what, I'm gonna look this guy up. This is what he wrote signaling Legion reading Mark's
Garrison Demoniak with Homer and Virgil. So both in mine. And I want to try and blast through a
little bit of this. I want to read the whole thing, but I will put the link because as soon as you get
it on, see if this opens, someone in the chat, see if this opens. I just posted it. Make sure
that that'll just allow you to download that PDF. But I want to read something here interesting
that I thought was fascinating. Coming from a Christian. I wish more Christians thought like
this. This paper explores intertextuality in Mark five, where encounter between Jesus and the
Garrison Demoniak ends with the madman saved from monster suppression. Specifically the loan word,
and I cannot read Greek, but Legion, I think it is from the Latin legio legio. Is that how you
pronounce it? Legio. I can barely read it on the screen here. Yes, legion. Okay. Signals and
emulation of Virgil's Aeneid, book eight, which relates the story of Hercules, overcoming the monster
cacus, or however you want to pronounce that, to bring a relief and rescue to the people. Hearing
Hercules in Mark five confirms the trajectory of the gospel as it unfolds and Mark's telling
of Jesus's story. So scroll it down. Peter McMillan concluded class that day with an insightful
The odd quote, we passages of acts where narrative protective awkwardly shifts from third person
to first person plural. Those odd, we passages seem to coincide with stories in and around the
city of Troas. I'm not sure why, but it's interesting to know. Yes, it was an interesting
observation similar to others. I had the privilege of hearing Dr. Lynn McMillan share during the two
semesters we co taught Bible and classical literature for honor students at Oklahoma
Christian University. Indeed, his comment was the first time I had heard a connection made between
the mysterious, we passages and the ancient city of Troy. Since Troas was proximate to old Troy
and conveyed association between Aeneas of Troy and epic stories about the origins of Roman power.
Lynn's observation opened my eyes and ears to a possibility that the we passages of acts
might be understood literally and not historically that the shift in language proximate with
stories in and around Troas a shift in language most akin to Odysseus's narration of his own
travels after the sack of Troy might signal an intentional intertextuality and not simply indicate
that Luke joined Paul's company at Troas as has been widely assumed and I would almost add in
brackets by literalists who want this to be literal history. But anyway, Lynn became for me
unwitting muse or more likely as masterful teacher. Lynn intentionally ignites imagination with
questions so that students might make associations that you'll new insights and bring to light
possible but undiscovered meanings. And it goes on and on that this is myth making and this is a
Christian, right? So I'd love to see more Christians read this and actually like pick up a thing or
two. The ones at least online that are like apologists who want this all to be literal.
There's so many reasons why this seems more literature and I don't think we'd have as much of
a battle online with people. I don't want to keep going because I could bore you but I hope the
viewers will like maybe click the link and download it and read it themselves. It was an enjoyable
read. He brings up McDonald. He presses the whole Aeneas with the Aeneid thing and showing
Hercules fighting the beast in the cave. That story is interesting. I was reading that before I went
live. But yeah, I want more people to see this for what it is. You're way past the even playing
around with this being historiography and the literal sense or actually being
Yeah, because of what I perceive to be the sheer literary qualities of the Gospels,
I don't think any of our methods that we have used work in trying to act defined or any historical
Jesus out of them. Again, the exception to this is I don't understand why they would invent pilots
specifically into these narratives. Everything else you can very much see a very clear goal
in inventing. You can see why they would put in Herod and make an emulation of them to make an
emulation of the Moses story and everything else and because it would fit with the rough time frame
of Pilate's rule and Jesus's stated lifespan in the Gospel of Mark and everything. And you would
also roughly be able to approximate other stuff with that. But why they choose Pilate, I don't
know. That's the only part really that I think that we can say with much confidence other than that
he probably had a brother named James. Right. And I know this. And that's just because we know Paul
met his brother James. But like aside from basically these two details, I would go as far as
say I don't think we know anything else about who Jesus was. I don't think we can reconstruct
who Jesus was or what his movement was like. And I don't think that it even makes sense to do so.
Treating the Gospels like they are a repository for us to just parse and just pick out kernels of
historical truth from or to find themes that go back to the Jesus movement or whatever you have
view is inherently treating them like there's something that they're not. They are not repositories
of historical information, nor are they repositories of everything that's coming before them. They are
just as creative as every other Roman piece of Greco-Roman literature out there. And if that's
and if when we realize that we realize that trying to just pick through them, especially when they
are not even attempting to relate, at least not the first two, relate any clear historical
information, they're modeled off of Greco-Roman bio-weave. This is a genre of entertainment
where invention was free. So why are we wasting our time? Good question. In fact I think it's almost
irrelevant to be asking who Jesus was. I don't think Jesus is even important for understanding
Christian origins. That's a controversial statement for people. I understand what you're saying.
Religions are not made by individuals, they're made by the sociological conditions of the time.
So to mirror what Albert Keltoff, who was an older an older mythicist and a Marxist,
what he basically says is even if Jesus existed, he would be no more than a co-worker in the
mechanisms of the time. He is kind of like even while Joseph Smith was alive and members started
saying this prophet Joseph Smith apostatized was not even really part of them. They saw him as
excommunicated out of the thing he started. It took on a life of its own and what he said did
was irrelevant. If anything it just showed he was apostate and it was legendarized.
But what John mattered in some way to them and they made that they changed that over and over.
So yeah it's kind of an analogy except we have way better evidence for Joseph Smith.
We have a lot of documentation for him and that's basically the only reason we can say
stuff about him. This is not the case with Jesus. We just don't have eyewitness testimony of Jesus.
We don't have firsthand records of what he said did. I know at least one person,
there's going to be the one person going through like well what about first Peter?
Peter wrote Peter and I'm like no, no he didn't. He very clearly didn't. That text is very clearly
written in the second century. So many reasons why it's written in the second century. But anyways
no it's just you cannot make a solid case that these are documents that you can do that kind of
parsing with. These aren't tacitist histories where he is at least on some level trying to report
an extent of what happened and where we have other histories that we can compare with that are
independent of tacitist as well and we can compare and contrast and we can get various details from
both of them. And scholars go to tacitist and find he's the only source that says something and he
doesn't say where or what. They are quick to say he made that up. They're not or that we have no
way to verify therefore we don't believe him. I mean that is how we treat his literature and he's
a historian. Yeah and we and it's not yeah and you are going to have some videos coming out soon
where I talk about of specific case where I think that's where that's a case of it where he made up
the the the persecution of Christians as a result of the great fire of Rome. It didn't happen.
It wasn't it just never happened. There was no one called Christians in the mid first century.
Will you tackle these super chats with me before I let you know? Yeah yeah yeah. Awesome. This has
been amazing. You are outstanding. If you can while I read this get the links. I know they're
going to be in our videos that will come out but I want to like promote your articles that you've
written. If you could send those in the private chat or even comment them in the comment. Well
either way if you send it in the private chat I'll share it but I want to get people to come over
and see what you've written. Constellation Pegasus 20 bucks. I'll let you have salvation for that.
Okay this is indulgent Thursday so if you're trying to save your loved ones you gotta pay.
Okay we don't play that game here but seriously thank you so much for the super chat. Has anyone
here known mark 16 9 through 20 our later editions before learning about Bart Ehrman in mid vision?
I didn't and I took pride thinking I knew a lot as a Jehovah's Witness. I call this evidence the
church is lying to us. Yeah so interpolation and stuff like that's very is is dicey graph. I don't
think this is evidence of lying. In fact actually in most modern Bibles like if you got by a King
James version. In fact let me grab. I got my NIV cultural background study bible and we'll just
stroll out here to mark. By the way the links I'm posting right now are articles written by
Chrissy Hansen. Thank you very much. So make sure you go. And by the way just to make it clear
why you're pulling that up. Constellation I think is saying that their church like the church has
acted like this has always been there. They're not telling you that there's like an issue in the
textual tradition on some of them do very much cover up that fact. Mine did not surprisingly
even though I was raised exceptionally fundamentalist like go watch that documentary about the duggers
and you'll get an idea kind of fundamental. My parents weren't directly like that but my church
was so. Okay they were horned dogs. I get it. I get it. Okay. So anyways you can look at but you
can like look at your NIV Bible right here and you'll notice this is in regular just print text
and then the interpolation is all in italics and they have a note about it and all that.
It says the earliest manuscripts and some other ancient witnesses do not have verses nine through
20 and stuff like that. So yeah they make note of it. They do that also with the
and taken an adultery episode in the Gospel of John. That's what chapter seven.
I think it is a seven or nine. I can't remember but yeah one of those chapters.
Yeah thank you so much. But yeah I knew about it's it's seven through it's seven through eight.
But yeah yeah I knew about it before I knew about Ereman and that's very specifically
because my pastor mentioned it. There was a point at which my there's a whole entire
story about this but my pastor didn't actually have a master's degree
and his bachelor's was from a crap school. It's called Kentucky Mountain Bible College.
It has like 50 students or some bullshit like that. It's absolute trash.
If you want to laugh go look through the student handbook. It's fucking hilarious.
But no but basically he ended up having to go back and get his master's degree
because the church board was like your credentials kind of lacking for a head pastor.
So he went back he went got his master's degree and while he was doing that he fancied himself
scholarly so he had bits and like that where he was trying to bring in some Greek and Hebrew
know-how that he learned. That lasted all of like two weeks.
Thank you so much for that. Seth of Vahala. You need Honi the circle maker. He will heal it.
Talk about my I got a cold in my ear. I've got a ear infection right now and like I have blood
like when I put the Q-tip in my ear. I have blood in my ear so I had to get antibiotics all sorts
of stuff. I used to get those so badly it had to be taken to the ER as a child. Yep they had to
put tubes in my ears as a child and I've never had blood on my ears since I was very little and
I don't remember my mom said I was a very crying baby because of the my ears and like having mucus
and all that and I haven't had blood on my ears till now you know so it's been 35 36 years now
and here I am experiencing it again. It's what you get here in the channel of blasphemy. Right
this is a curse. It's for sure a curse. We know what God's trying to say.
Mythician has the best guests. Great conversation. I believe so as well. I love Chrissy. We did one
on the history of mythicism like there's just so much. There's so much. I found so much more
new stuff since those videos too. We could do a whole video on racism and mythicism. That's a
it is a topic and a half. I found some stuff. You definitely know some things about the history
of all sorts of just the scholarship and how things have gone but specifically knowing
mythicism has a pretty long history in post enlightenment scholarship even a little bit
more but you know like even during the height of the enlightenment itself in fact the earliest
inferred reference I have found to it is actually the works of Grodius all the way back into 1620s.
Interesting. I had to read Ecclesiastical Latin to get that one. That was horrible.
I ended up finding so much new stuff since then that I at this point I would have to
write an entirely new book from the draft that I had going. I haven't looked at that draft in
a long time now so maybe at some point like the draft I had written was about 100,000 words long
on the history of mythicism and at this point I found enough that I could probably stretch that
out to 150,000 words or more. I'd love to see it if you do. I could have an entire like 20,000,
30,000 word chapter just on all of the weird intersections that mythicists and the far right
had during the early 1900s and even into the modern era like with the Organization American
Atheist founded by you know Madeline Marie O'Hare who was a Holocaust denier she was tied to
neo-nazi movements. That doesn't even shock me at all as you know my experience.
Awful stuff just all over the place and American Atheist became one of the hot bed popularizers
of mythicism in the late 20th and early 21st centuries especially through Frank Zindler.
Frank Zindler wrote a whole bunch of books. He edited a whole bunch of Bob Price's books and
published them through his press through American Atheist press. He published the response volume
this monstrosity of a book
in response to that and I have an entire like series of shawls right here
just dedicated to mythicism and this is all the mythicist stuff I have. Yep there it is.
All right I'm gonna keep moving I'm gonna keep moving um my wife keeps calling me
dinner's ready live long legacy get better sir no matter your efforts are appreciated always
thank you live long I hope I keep your name as my legacy and live long I really appreciate that
you being a member and the super chat. John Geer again says there are stories in the gospels
where Jesus is alone but his words are quoted in detail when praying or when none of his followers
are around and the conversations are claimed word for word these books are not history.
Exactly well of course you're wrong don't you know that when Jesus came down and he was with
the disciples for several days that he just told them his whole life story word for word
and one of them had their typewriter out and was typing it all down in perfect English.
Exactly the old English old English specifically King James. Yeah no that's early modern
okay that's true I'm not saying the old old English is like Beowulf like
yeah but I used to hear that like well he could have just after he rose from the dead
came and then told them that night what happened and then they wrote it's like
come on I mean you don't do this. Tell me when he had time to do do that with the conversation
when he had the pilot. I'll wait because there was no time he just went straight to the execution
block well all right. Thank you John again great point what about the omniscient eye of the author
and and the pen that clearly is being inventive this is good reason to be hesitant. Matthew K love
the shows Derek please read next message for Q hold on I gotta find you Matt I uh scrolling up
in my chat here because it has a different department here okay Matt. If Greek and Roman
literature i.e. Romulus and Remus was required reading in high school do you believe people
would recognize it as mimesis potentially banned? Um no I don't I don't think so and very specifically
from the standpoint that actually for a lot of history and even very recent history the
Odyssey at the very least is taught in school. I grew up I grew up I had to read the Odyssey in
school I know a bunch of other people I had to read it in high school most people read it by
the time that they're in college especially if you're taking like a rhetoric class you'll read
some Greco-Roman literature. I'm going to be real I don't think that they would necessarily
recognize these bit these stories as mimesis and very specifically because there is this
heart way that we've delineated a difference between how we treat Christian literature and
non-Christian literature. People have just divided those two as one as being history and the other
as being myth. That's what Bruce Loudon says. Bruce Loudon literally says that when he's trying
when I was telling you about the book I've been reading trying to show the Homeric epics
in some way there's a conversation happening maybe there's a common source we don't know
I don't know but the east and west are talking and I'm talking you know antiquity antiquity
and he points out that like suspend your judgment when you go to read my parallels
because faith has like resurrected walls between this is true and that's false
and not allowing it to be literature on the same footing the same can be said as you're
talking about here with Romulus and Remus I love the analogies you've given this entire show has
been showing these things would it be banned no I think they would just ignore it they'd find ways
to get around what I what's there yeah I think if we're going they're going to end up banning any
of this ancient literature it's probably going to be the Iliad because how dare Achilles be gay
yeah yeah yeah how how dare there be so much butt sex in ancient literature
you know that Neil brought up a source one time he sent me the screenshot because he finds these
like primary sources and you know they were some dirty sons of guns I'll just put it that way they
were very vivid in their writing and now the bible is like that in fact my next video one of the
next documentaries I have coming out I paint the story up to Judah and Tamar and I said let's do
the track record record on the final composition of Genesis here right out I said Genesis starts
with a bang literally right out the gate woman is you know cursed to have children in pain and we
might say there's some euphemism for sex taking place in the garden who knows many rabbis thought
this some other people might think it and it goes from there to angels or divine beings gods really
technically having sex with mortal women then the next thing you have is Noah's son Ham sees his
father's nakedness something sexual especially when you parallel that with Lot I go all the way
through and there's like 20 very game of thrones incestual wild stories in Genesis then we finally
get to Judah and what's he do his daughter in law dresses up as a temple prostitute he has sex with
her then he tells him burner alive oh but here's your signet in your stat oh she's more righteous
than me if they made a real movie not through Christian like actually allow like a secular
Hollywood movie by the way that's my favorite chapter from Genesis is it mostly for the most
because of the way it opens or was wicked what do you do whatever he was wicked killed him
oh man he did not come where he was supposed to
yeah yeah i'm going to demonetize this time but you know
i think that he's supposed to give him here he didn't uphold his part of the reverie marriage so
right i used to read that and take that literally as if like anyone spilling their
seed on the ground um Stephanie no maturation exactly Stephanie Gentry i hope i'm pronouncing
that right uh thank you for becoming a member of mythician i really appreciate that good means a lot
the demons will not bother you now uh you're inside the fold uh you can you can be as
heretical as you like now so you have a free pass to sin um Daniel Whitaker love the actual
history versus the mythology thank you Daniel i think i this is interesting i don't think that
there is should be a there is no division for me i don't think that the division of history and myth
mythology actually makes sense even modern historians are in a way mythologists
our job is to essentially go through what we as modern people have decided have
regarded through our methods and our uh conceptions of science and reality as being
likely or unlikely and we parse all of this together and assemble it into our own narrative
of what we think happened in the past what is the most likely this is what what we are essentially
doing is creating a academically that an academically acceptable set of myths
that are in constant flex and constant revision just like myths of the past uh this was actually
going back to my point uh earlier um with like interpolation it only makes sense to say that
saw that also that like they're lying when they're adding or taking away things from the
gospels or changing things the gospels are were like the odyssey and the iliad living texts that
changed and morphed over time there is no stable odyssey text that we have in antiquity the study
of the odyssey like critical and um textual uh textual criticism of the odyssey and the iliad
is pretty rough because there are so many changes so many interpolations added scenes taken away
in fact it's so variable that just as you get with textual critics uh this the skeptical
secularist textual critics of uh like the gospels uh and the new testament in general
they're also just like there was no original we're living texts these were texts that were
consist like what we can as all we what we can say is what can we reconstruct that is the earliest
version of what we would recognize right as our text as our text but we can't there's no
original odyssey or iliads to speak of we have texts that are in constant flex and in constant
change and this is what happens especially with very religiously important literature in the ancient
world is these are constantly changing all the time you see this with the gospels you can bring up
how you know people can bring up that we have five thousand manuscripts of the gospel of the new
testament and there is not a single there are not a single two manuscripts that look the same
and yes most of it comes down to spelling changes but the earlier go the more drastic
the changes are sometimes it can be a word that changes the entire content or meaning of a passage
as Bart Ehrman has shown sometimes you can add entire passages like the woman caught an adultery
sequence or the entire ending 12 verses of mark sometimes and also potentially even the entire
opening of luke as well since you brought mark perfect segway to this super chat because it's
like the original ending of mark heavily implies on an omniscient author is this found in any other
greco roman literature also uh yes especially in fictional literature you do get omniscient
narrators you get omniscient narrators quite frequently um it just depends it just all depends
on genre what they're specifically going i mean and technically speaking um for example the when
we speak of an omniscient narrator in literature we're speaking of a narrator that crosses the
boundaries of and uh exists essentially in this liminal state where they can enter into the minds
or hover above the minds of everyone in a text so we can enter into and exit out of
its perspectives as we see fit and then we can also draw back to have a global view of them
and this is very frequently found in historiographical literature most historiographical
literature actually takes an omniscient narrative perspective in the ancient world
um they are narrating everything that they know happened from various perspectives
quite often you'll find them popping into the perspectives or what's reported from specific
authors or figures so they pop into a perspective that limits the scope a little bit but then they
brought bring it back out and then they can report on everything going on that those authors or
those individuals would have no knowledge of and this is essentially an omniscient narrator
um or at least a very
third person limited but near omniscient narrator depending on how you want to characterize it
there's no like strict boundary on how we can really define an omniscient narrator
but mark is definitely one of those and he narrates it just as you would with most
greco-roman biographies um for example the biography of phylostratus does this as well
phylostratus' biography of apollonius is amazing uh well worth the read it is also another biography
that scholars do not think we can use to reconstruct a life of apollonius um if you go and get the
standard um interlinear edition the the lobe classical library version which has been edited by
dr christopher jones um that volume opens up with an introduction and he basically says that the
search for a historical apollonius is as hopeless as the search for a historical jesus
if you want to know what classicists think of what jesus scholars do that's what
damn that's why i love classicists who venture into the field of new testament studies
you know they're really material that just is ignored mostly yeah and apollonius is also another
one of those figures where there are occasional doubts whether he even existed occasional very
occasional but uh and you can see why we have no reliable sources for him very similar to jesus
there is no there are no uh unbiased or particularly reliable sources about him the earliest one is
if i'm referring to you see him i was just thinking before before we segue out of here um of the
omniscient narration in ax seven not 17 but the uh the shipwrecked i think it's 27 i was reading
the hermenea commentary on ax and i was coming across that he was saying yeah that's definitely
there's an omniscient narration taking place but there's something that wasn't mentioned by the
commentator that denis mcdonald did bring to my attention and that was the shipwreck this narration
has like this divine interaction taking place with the shipwreck where the god is like actively in
the scene to protect and ensure that they're safe and not a hair on your head the whole nine
denis was like show me another shipwreck and antiquity where that is taking place with the
divine actively caring and ensuring the safety other than fiction like found in odyssey you know
these kind of stories so it's again if you want to know we're looking at myths legends you got to
look at myths and legends and and really see what's happening here getting behind the myth
and legends to know what is without archaeology without concrete physical evidence wouldn't you
say we're doomed to be able to actually and even then just because you found a thing uh they found
the pool uh beth's what is the name of the pool uh beth's sada pool and john therefore uh does that
mean angels were really here actually doing the things uh accounted in this uh pool as they say
come on so how far do you push it no i like of course i mentioned real places are existed
troi existed right doesn't mean anything that in the odyssey odyssey actually happened
as recorded in the odyssey um at all but sometimes myths do report things that happen that's why i
don't like this just draw it distinction is because myth does quite often also incorporate
real history to varying extents uh class depends on how you want to define the difference between
legend and myth i don't really think that the distinctions are that meaningful but uh the
nibelungen lead is a german epic written in the 12th century um it's written in middle high german
and it tells stories about the fall of the burgundian kingdom
now this is what's interesting is well for the most part none of that narrative probably ever
happened it is a completely legendary narrative we know it most famously because
richard bogner made a really cool opera about it um based partially on the nibelungen lead
but mostly on the more famous norse counterpart the saga of the volesongs
that story is concerning historical people rune hilda existed she was a princess of the
visigoths she married a man named sigvert of uh the merevingians whose name is very very closely
related to sigurd and sigfried the more the more famous versions of those names and
gunther guzzle hair uh and all these the brothers all existed we know they existed we have the
burgundian law code that mentions all of them so we and we know other if they we know that uh
what's happened is trying to tell me since your augustus existed i mean come on what are you trying
to tell me what's happened is that we crunched the timeline together to include a lot of figures
that didn't exist in the same time frame together but also that there are historical memories of
things going on there so like for example atilla very really did invade the burgundian kingdom
he bro and there really was some rivalry between the huns and the burgundians there are
historical memories in here myth is not explicitly you know a historical we i want to i want to
pick your brain on that this point we're bringing up reading cesar augustus birth portents okay
okay talks about a um a wall of villatry villatry v e l i t r a had been touched in ancient times part
of the wall villatry had been touched by lightning this was seen as a sign that a citizen of the
town would one day be ruler bolstered by this the people of villatry immediately waged war with the
roman people here's the thing i wouldn't put it past that the people of villatry waged war with
the romans at some point probably due to an omen who knows and they almost went to their deaths
like they almost got annihilated that could have happened um but like are they using this event
important and then adding it and saying it's pointing to my guy and here's my narrate i don't
know i mean i can't or are they using a historical event of a battle and then saying that it originates
in a portent that they just made up exactly i don't know but there's and we know we won't we
won't know all we know is that this is how they believed that these things happened of course
augustus would have had a divine portent about his birth because he's cesar of course he would
of course that he would have been descended of a deity of course he was adopted of course he would
have other portents during his life about the great auspices of his reign of course is
descendants and those who reigned after him would also have all these things because that
is just what was expected is it lying are they making it no look that's what's expected of the
account i know it's really surprised i was shocked like
okay this is this is my biggest pet peeve about new testament scholarship in general
the idea that the new testament authors are human beings is just shocking i know i knew it like
like i thought we really think paul never told a lie in his life
you really think that paul didn't make mistakes like like interpolations all this is my thing
with the dutch radicals they see interpolations everywhere because oh my goodness uh look paul's
contradicting his theology here so paul couldn't have written this stretch that out you know
that must be an interpolation paul's being sexist here but not here or paul's being anti-semitic
or whatever uh you know don't maybe maybe just me but maybe he's a human being and human beings are
routinely inconsistent i've got it i've got some things to think about tonight i didn't know this
i i know it's shocking there's like this but it is a thing it's like they don't treat
these people like they were actual people right they don't treat new testament authors like they
were human beings they treat them either like there are two modes either they treat them
like they're repositories of information that are just redacting things handed down to them like
like nonsense or uh you get like richard c miller and with all due respect but i think that
i think this whole they're just making it up to fool people kind of shit is edge lordy well richard
doesn't think that they made it up to fool people he thinks they're purposely writing tracks for
cultic members so he doesn't think that yeah he doesn't think that they're writing historiographies
are trying to pawn off history um he thinks they're more of like cultic materials for the yeah well
and that's also problematic because ancient writers weren't writing for cultic groups they're
writing for other writers you aren't writing for you know uh you aren't writing for people
that can't read most people can't read 95 percent of the population is so illiterate that they
probably can't even sign their own name and the small the small percentage that can write it all
probably can only sign their name except for the very very very very very minuscule minority of
people who can at who can fully read and write and read and write in a very competent way your
average emmanuant emmanuance is not going to be able to comprehend and judge your literature
so i know that he doesn't think that he's right they're writing to illiterate groups i think he
is in total cahoots with what robin's saying about the gospels as far as them being literature um
but he is not convinced that they are writing pawning off histories the kind of way that
litle would say because he's written critical responses to litle was yeah how doctors came
history if he thought that the title meant how they became history like over time eventually
they historicized and made these histories but he sees the whole enterprise of invention of gospel
literature as like coltic materials for for people within these particularly these particular
you know groups of i'm not even convinced mark was christian right that's a that's a
mind issue that we do not have time for but i'm not even convinced that mark that necessarily
that mark can be described as a christian and robin says the same she doesn't die on the hill
she says he could have been but like he could just be a literary just an author writing
man just found a guy that was sound sounded like he'd be really cool to write a biography about
right like that's it um i imagine he wasn't imagine he wasn't a christian and all the
gospels after are imitating this literature and christians have like build this and this
this guy's just we're sitting here like i i was just writing a really cool novel
oh my gosh um no i i i don't think that we're deal like i would agree that we're dealing probably
with at least later later gospels like more coltic artifacts but i also don't think i don't think
that we're dealing with artifacts that are specifically written with a coltic or christian
or very or liturgical audience in mind i think we're i think we're very much dealing with
a set of writers who are writing very specifically just for other literary authors um and i wouldn't
even give them said all of those other literary authors are christians so one example and then
i do need to go because even the fans said matt lambert says mythician has got me through the
past few months at a new job thank you guys thanks you guys thank you matt i really appreciate it
christie's awesome i always enjoy learning from you um one comment i want to make is that a lot of
scholars will make those internal arguments that these they are competitive which fits what robin
saying but there seems to be in some way comparative competitive narratives even on like
like how john is writing is this odd thing yuga mendez is like come on and talked about yeah
categorizing almost trying to attach it to synoptics when it's actually got more in common with
these other non canonical materials and so it seems like they're jabbing like they're playing
my avatar guy thomas is actually better and more trustworthy or or he has this like kind of
theological angle of trying to convince people that jesus wasn't complete phantom he was a physical
these kind of ideas is what i think i've heard miller mentioned and so it wasn't his idea he's
going off other scholars as well but yeah and we're definitely dealing with a competitive
a competitive sphere where we're dealing with works that are in literary competition with each other
but that's also very common in the ancient world um and this is actually part of part of the reason
when you see a lot of inventiveness um right you have to make your work stand you had to make your
work stand out and actually worth reading um you don't get that by just reporting
base facts about what happened that's bad form you need to write a thematically coherent
cohesive work that is interesting that tells a story that brings awareness to specific issues
you think of importance so when you're dealing with tacitus on the emperor nero he is not reliable
he hates nero and he is thematically organizing everything and inventing things to make nero
look as bad as he can because he's trying to make a point about the reign of nero
well i tell you what christie i hope that when we're long gone people write favorably for us
and not uh antagonistic um are there any final words that you'd like to say to the audience
i'm going to go eat before i get castrated like you're in it if you uh want to see any of my more
any other works of mine i do have a public email uh here's one more link it is my h commons
you can buy my public email there and you can also find a list of all the works that i have written
on biblical scholarship and i also have a paper on tolkin and a few other things in there so you
know if you like it's in the chat right now so make sure you get it if you like little neat
things like that just let me know i'm happy to send you uh stuff a lot of it's also open access
so it's easy to find seriously appreciate you um any final words uh
don't uh be careful about saying things are history and myth history versus myth
and also um gospels are cool regardless of what whether they're historical
we put too much emphasis on trying to figure out if they are not it doesn't really matter
hmm what matters what matters most is what they tell us about how what they were written
what they're writing about and when they were written and it tells us who these people were and
what they had in it what was of interest to them about jesus and that's what's more far more
important than just trying to dissect them for finding historical little tidbits and curls
it finds out some there is a the world of the gospels is so much richer when we stop trying to
just historicize them all the time there's something so much more imaginative and great
and human about them when we stop trying to do that thank you so much christy appreciate you last
minute jumping in with me everybody we have courses on mvpcourses.com we just launched another
one on jesus and the dead sea scrolls with dr james d tabor and i hope that you'll sign up for that
check that out next year i'll be leading a tour over there in palestine israel will be in the
dead sea region at kumran with kip davis and hopefully matthew monger will be there i'll
have jennifer burd with me she's coming to hang out with us uh we're gonna go to jerusalem we're
going up to the galley we're gonna have a blast we're gonna go back to the places where these
narratives would have placed these figures and so why not join us um what else oh i've got some
documentaries be on the lookout that are on just the myth of lot the myth of uh juda and tamar
i'm going into the myth of joseph next i'm working on script wise is the myth of moses and the myth
of uh joseph's like three hours three and a half hour documentary so be on the lookout i'm going
deep i bring up asop's romance i bring up uh the odyssey i bring up all sorts of interesting
things and then egyptian mythologies and egyptian romance myth that comes into this and joseph uh
stay tuned and check out christie's links so thank you christie fail never forget we are myth vision
so
Thank you.
