Okay, I wanted you to wait to know what it feels like to be an apocalypticist, and nothing
actually happens.
Ladies and gentlemen, welcome back to MythVision Podcast.
I'm your host, Derek Lambert.
I have Dr. Jeffrey Tripp with us today.
How are you?
Not bad, not bad.
Dr. Tripp, you were on here several other times.
We've dealt with arguments on eyewitness testimony in John.
You've written a book.
You popped this sucker up for everybody.
Well, we got a couple things to show them before we get into undesigned coincidences.
Number one, you have a YouTube channel.
I have not hit that refresh button, but there's 324 subscribers.
By the end of this episode, everybody watching this will have eternal conscious torment if
we do not get that 500.
I have decreed it.
It is so.
It's got to be eternal.
It cannot be annihilation.
It has to be the worst because I love you.
You know what I mean?
I love you.
So, make sure you subscribe.
I'm being silly here.
Subscribe to Dr. Tripp's YouTube channel.
I hope when we refresh this at the end that we've surpassed 500, I ask all of you MythVisionaries
in the chat to keep reminding people, if there's any mods in there, share Dr. Tripp's YouTube.
I want to grow it because I want him to want to keep coming back and making more videos.
He also has the book, Direct Internal Quotation in the Gospel of John.
How would you sum up this book and what it's about?
It's about a weird literary tick of John's where he has characters say things and then
he has people re-quote them.
The quotations are almost never accurate.
And so it's looking at what John's doing with these Direct Internal Quotations, why he's
introducing a piece of speech and then repeating it.
So the literary devices he's using with that.
And I get into John's use of tradition and also John's indulgence in apocalypticism and
how he's modifying apocalypticism to his own ends.
Just to be honest and very fair, this is obviously an academic publication.
If it wasn't, you wouldn't see such a high price.
It's just the way things go.
You have another publication though, Sacred Text and Sacred Figures you played a part of?
Yeah, I co-edited it and I contributed a chapter on John's 153 fish looking at the reception
in history of how people have interpreted that.
And it's a festrift in honor of Edmondo Lupieri, who is my dissertation director and is just
a fantastic human being.
Awesome.
Okay.
And then also you're on academia.
People can go check out your writing, some of your videos, of course, and harass you there
begging for eternal heaven and bliss.
They can do that.
Maybe you're merciful.
So Dr. Trep, we're talking about undesigned coincidences pertaining to an apologetic
kind of, I'll call it a methodology or an observation, by some Christians online.
Some are friends of mine that I talk to, others I don't have close connections with and specifically
the ones who are pioneering this position are Lydia and Tim McGrew, mainly Lydia on
New Testament stuff from what I understand, even though her and her husband, I'm sure,
are in the same boat on this idea.
I contacted you a while back and said, you know, Jeff, of course, I call you first name,
we have that kind of relationship, but Dr. Trep, for the internet, I said, you really
looked at Bacchums.
I witnessed stuff, his names very critically, but also very carefully.
You probably saw some really good stuff.
You also probably saw maybe overdoing it in some ways, and you're very, very honest in
sifting through the materials.
So I said, what if I could get someone like him who's also a mathematician, which means
Bayesian probability, here we go.
And this is exactly what the undesigned coincidence position is like doing some math here.
Can I get him to read this book?
Will he do it?
Will he do it?
How can I twist his arm?
One day you had a situation where you had time and you were like, send me the book.
So I sent you the book and that was the...
Which book was it again, I said?
Hidden in Plainview.
Hidden in Plainview.
You read and you came up with some observations and that's what we're here doing today.
So you haven't read all the work, but what are we doing today?
What is our goal?
Well, we're looking at her argument.
I essentially like, I don't know anything about the McGrews.
I know very little about Christian apologetics.
It's not my world.
They're not the particular questions that I'm interested in.
If I look at it, it's sort of from a reception history point of view.
So if they have an interesting reading and it lines up with something I'm looking at,
then I might pay attention, but it's sort of, I'm coming at this with very fresh eyes.
So I have no prejudgements about what they're doing.
It's just sort of like, oh, this is an interesting world I get to dive into.
So we study the same texts and the interesting thing for me is we come at it with different
training, different assumptions and different questions.
So like the different questions is something I'm keep coming back to today is that, well,
here are the questions she's asking.
These are the questions I would be asking and it just will highlight that we're sort
of approaching them from very different angles.
I'm going to approach this sort of like a book review because you're like, here, read
this book and tell me what you think.
So if I'm writing a book review, I write a lot of book reviews.
There are three big things I would want to address.
So what is she doing?
What is an undesigned coincidence?
In what ways does it work?
So in what ways is her book successful?
So I don't want to be like, even if I'm critical, I don't want to be completely negative.
And then how does it not work?
And we'll probably spend a lot more time on that question than the first couple of questions.
But it is worth pointing out like ways that this does work and then turning to the ways
that it sort of is resting on sand.
There's a weak foundation to it and that's some of the things that I'm going to highlight.
Okay.
I just want to paint a picture for our audience and also to understand where you're at.
You painted yours and saying, look, you don't even know them.
I personally don't know them, but I know apologists who pioneer their positions online.
And so, you know, I'm kind of the antagonistic critical point of view.
I already have an opinion on this particular, I'll call it a hypothesis of undesigned coincidences
and stuff.
But I wanted you to come in a fresh academic, new eyes, not someone who lives in the online
world.
So there's not really this chip on your shoulder like maybe I might present or an axe grinding
kind of thing.
I wanted to allow you on and I don't want to put words in your mouth during this interview.
I want to allow you to say what you honestly think and allow the audience to also make
their judgment call.
I've heard only very few people in the past make videos in critical response thoroughly
going through this kind of thing.
What I think you might be doing today and we might get into some examples, but I imagine
the ones who believe this would want you to deal with every, this is what always happens
by the way, every single example that they have come up with.
They expect you to unravel every single thing.
Instead, what scientists will probably do is go back and say, what is your methodology
and how are you approaching this?
And once you see how that's working, then you realize you won't have to run to every
single pericope to find this particular thing and draw some conclusion that makes you have
this maximalist case.
In my opinion, apologists have kind of an internal fight struggle.
There are minimal facts arguments where apologists say even the most secular scholars, for the
most part except maybe one or two, say Jesus existed and say this and then say that and
they like, now that we all agree on that, now let's make a case.
Why would they die for what they believe?
Why would they do?
And the minimal facts argument is trying to argue for the reliability, but also the
trustworthiness of the early witnesses and why this is something you should believe.
The maximal case says you guys don't see all the holes in your case and no wonder skeptics
aren't buying the gospel that you're trying to sell.
We have a better case and it's the maximal case and we have this undesigned coincidence
thing that makes it so much more reliable.
So we can bring the gospels in.
We can bring everything pretty much into the picture and we have a much better case.
This is to give you kind of the online, what's going on between both worlds.
So I know that you don't, you don't hear this.
You don't.
Yeah.
Well, I did notice she, she makes an argument against the minimal facts argue.
Like so in her conclusion, she takes on the minimal facts people.
So I got a little window of this, this internal fight, reading this book.
I don't know.
This is from what, 2017.
So I don't know how far this has developed in the last couple of years.
Do you want to pull up the- Absolutely, let's pop that up.
Here we are.
Yeah.
So 2017.
So I don't know in the- To defend, you know, you're not attacking.
I want to make that very clear.
This is not an attack.
This is going to be a critical response though, I think.
Yeah.
And yeah, I have, you know, I think apologetics as a sort of devotional practice.
It's a religious devotional practice.
I think if, if I were a fundamentalist, I would probably want to be the one who would
practice apologetics as part of my devotional faith because it would be the interesting
thing for me.
Like I think it's intellectually engaging, it brings you really close to the text.
It's, you know, so it's interesting to sort of delve into this world.
But from my different perspective, I think, you know, I'll highlight how I might have
some issues.
And for example, using hidden and plain view in my own work, if I were writing an article
and it touched on one of these scenes, I would still be very reluctant to use a work like
this to support a case, even if I happen to agree with it on a particular point.
Again, like you said, because there are fundamental problems with the methodology, so it, it raises
a lot of questions even before you get to the details.
So I figure we could start off by showing people in a case.
And this case is one that is interesting for me because I happen to be working on this
scene in John.
So that's why I picked it.
So in John's Last Supper, there's this strange incident where Jesus gets up from table, takes
off his clothes, gets on his knees and starts washing the disciples feet.
And then tells them, so Peter's at first horrified by this, and he says, one, if you want to
share in my, you know, share in heaven, you, you need to go along with this.
And two, if I'm willing to do this, you guys need to be willing to do this.
And when I teach this text, that's one of my examples of how a literalistic reading is often
not a literal reading, because very few Christians in the history of Christianity have read this
passage and been like, oh yeah, then we need to wash people's feet, even though he's very
direct like this.
I've given you an example to follow and they're like, yeah, but Jesus in his metaphors.
So what the problem with this scene is, though, is you have this really important night, you
have the Last Supper, you have this very notable scene.
So Jesus gets up and acts like an enslaved person, because it would most often be an
enslaved person who would be who you would send in to wash somebody's feet.
And in fact, the thing that I'm interested in is most often disproportionately often
in socially and literally, like in literature, literally, it would be an enslaved woman.
So this is part of the reason his disciples are so horrified as he's acting not only like
an enslaved person, but like an enslaved woman.
That's really notable.
It doesn't appear in any of the other Gospels.
So it raises doubts about its reliability, like, did this really happen on that night
or even at all, much less on that night?
Why did nobody else feel the need to mention this?
So McGrew's way of approaching this, if I put a quick passage from Mercedes, it's certainly
possible that Jesus did this on that particular night for no special reason.
Perhaps he simply wanted to teach this lesson about mutual service and humility before his
death as he instituted the Lord's Supper on the same night.
Incidentally, you wouldn't know that he instituted the Lord's Supper if you only had John, but
we'll put that to the side.
Still, one cannot help wondering why he washed their feet and drew the moral from it just
then.
This is what I mean by asking different questions.
So she assumes it happened.
If John says it happened, it happened.
And so the question is, why did Jesus do it this night?
What I feel like I have is the text.
So my question would be more, why does John narrate this episode here?
Putting to the side whether or not this actually happened, if it did happen, so let's say it
really did happen, the fact is still that neither Luke nor Mark nor Matthew says anything
about this.
So why does John feel it's important to put this in?
That would be the question I would ask, because I have the text, I don't have Jesus.
Right.
That's a it's a really important.
I love starting here because you're separating a text from what, you know, what we're supposing
historically occurred.
All you have is this text.
You don't have what actually occurred and sought.
We don't actually we did not actually see it.
There's a lot of built in assumptions in this kind of thinking that what we're seeing in
the text while we found because there's like it's like a cumulative case in their mind
while we know there's people, places and things that are real that the gospel speak about.
So they kind of approach this like trustworthiness of assuming if you said it.
It most likely happened.
And so they just assume whereas you're dealing with it with a more critical careful saying,
what is this author's intent with this scene?
You're not saying it didn't happen, but you're not assuming it did.
And so this is the thing I think that's just the difference in how you're approaching it,
the questions you might be asking and so forth.
Yeah, I'm not assuming it did.
I'm not assuming it didn't.
It's that's a secondary tertiary way down the line sort of question, right?
And so the way she approaches this is in this last line, well, if we could find an explanation
in another gospel, this would be interesting and satisfying.
And where she finds that is in Luke.
So in Luke's version, he also has a distinct element.
So he inserts here this dispute about who among the disciples is greatest.
And at the end, he gets to is it not the one or he says, let the greatest among you become
as the youngest and the leader as one who serves for who is greater,
one who reclines at table or one who serves.
Is it not the one who reclines at table, but I'm among you as one who serves.
So you can see how these things fit together.
So it's Jesus presenting to himself as one who serves and literally as somebody who leaves table.
He's not reclining at the table.
And this is what actually happens in John.
So instead of just having the teaching about it, John sort of narrates an episode
that illustrates what he's talking about here.
Okay.
So the problem here is that we have a distinct element in Luke.
We have a distinct element in John and then we have Matthew and Mark that don't have anything
about this.
So her way of going about that is to conclude that both these things happen.
Luke only includes the teaching.
John only includes the episode.
And Matthew and Mark, for whatever reason, choose not to include either.
The coincidence.
So she calls these undesigned coincidences.
The coincidence is that we have the servant imagery in the same scene at the same meal on the same night.
Right.
So we have something that fits together, but the undesigned part is that
John, if John's later, or Luke, if Luke's later, are not copying directly.
They're not explicitly building on the other one.
So they just have something that sort of fits together.
And in her way of going about it, these would be independent traditions that they're each
reflecting this idea that servant imagery came up at the last supper.
Right.
For me, this would raise different questions.
So one, is it an actual coincidence?
So the suffering servant is an image that is connected with Jesus's death throughout the
New Testament and throughout early Christianity.
So when you have his last meal, it would make sense to introduce servant imagery.
And you can make the argument that Luke simply takes this imagery from elsewhere in Mark,
because the same language appears in Mark and Matthew just much early in a very different
context.
So does Luke see this earlier in Mark, at least one of his sources, if you're a
farer person, it would be two of his sources, see this earlier in Mark and then decide to
put this because he wants to build the suffering servant imagery into the last supper, bring
it up here.
John explicitly connects it to his death.
He lays down his clothes and then takes them back up again.
Just like in John 10, he lays down his life and takes them back up again.
He echoes his own language to explicitly connect this to his death.
Right.
So that's one thing.
It could just be coincidental that both of them thought servant imagery would be appropriate
at the last supper.
Is Luke reliable when he moves that language here?
So did Jesus actually say this on that night or has Luke taken some creative freedom,
taken some teaching that appeared earlier in his source and moved it up?
So should we question Luke's reliability or did Jesus just teach this a whole lot and
they kept having disputes about who is greatest?
This sort of episode happened multiple times.
And then we get into the question of dependence.
So and this is going to be a constant difference between me and McGrew.
It's particularly in the latter half of the gospel.
So in the passion narrative that John and Luke have a lot of odd similarities.
And you will find a lot of scholars that would say John is dependent on Luke in his passion
narrative.
You'll also find a couple that will say Luke is dependent on John.
So like Mark Mattson would say Luke here is influenced by John.
So John scholars would look at this and say, well, John creates this episode to illustrate
the teaching that he finds in Luke.
Somebody else might say Luke puts in this teaching.
He doesn't want to illustrate.
He doesn't want to put this whole episode in.
It's too much material.
But he puts in this teaching that he already has because he knows John.
That question isn't resolved just because they're slightly different.
Doesn't mean that I would say John and Luke are necessarily totally independent on this question.
Is it me jumping the gun by just expressing to our audience what's happening here?
Is the question you're bringing up and I think she brings up in the book
but doesn't really dwell on it doesn't really deal with it is that
we know we have really good evidence to suggest these authors in some way among the synoptic
problem are in communication awareness of each other.
Someone whatever order you want to put it in because I don't even want to get lost into
this is the example for our hypothesis.
Matthew in priority this this that Luke and I don't even want to get there.
The point is there's literary reasons to say
that they are dependent on each other.
How can you really factor stuff to undesigned when they are dependent?
This is the biggest hiccup I have on assuming coincidence
when we can assert with clear evidence they're dependent.
That is such a problem to me.
I can't see over that hill.
I'm not saying that it couldn't be.
It's just that's a big sore thumb in my eye.
I can't unsee it.
So I don't know if I just stepped on your presentation.
No, I mean this is so I would say her method is if they are different than any distinct
details in any gospel and I'm going to be focusing kind of more on the gospels but we'll get to acts
but any distinct detail no matter where you're talking about
she would chalk up to independent tradition and she would just say well because it's not
so close because I can't imagine a reason for John to do to create this episode or
insert this episode based on Luke.
Therefore John must not care about what Luke's doing and so even if he knew him
this is independent tradition and it is it's totally possible that you had this episode
attached to the Last Supper and you had this teaching attached to the Last Supper before John
and Luke right and even if John does know Luke he could have read Luke seeing I'm among you as
one who serves and he's like you know what I don't want to put this in but I do want to put in
that other episode because nobody's put in that episode and I think that foot washing is really
important so I don't know that that's not the case but then the coincidence of having
servant imagery is lessened somewhat.
It's not that John just happened to put in this and Luke just happened to put in that
one could have inspired the other even if they had independent tradition so
I get it I get it yeah so there's just it I wouldn't want to jump all the way there
I want I would want to explore other possibilities first
got it so in in McGrew's way of doing this if she can come up with an historical explanation
for both of them that's not literary not these other ways of going about it
she can put aside all those other questions that I might have
and so that's the sort of standard that she goes on got it
so who is this book for like who do I think would enjoy this book because
I want to say like she writes clearly she writes excessively I I read it very easily
and I was never frustrated with the writing or anything like that like
she she's easy to understand it's an easy structure to pick up and down
so if you it's repetitive I mean it's very repetitive but it's got an easy enough structure
that you can be like okay I'm just going to read a couple of these put it down you could
leave it for two weeks and come back to it you'd be fine you don't need to like keep the last one
in mind um so any Christian probably any Christian for whom the New Testament is
the only first century literature they've read really like you know not terribly familiar with
first century culture and who has some sort of positive stake in the gospels being reliable
history or in acts in paul it you know acts being reliable history so if you if you were into that
you would enjoy this book and probably get really into it probably share it with a friend
so that's sort of her audience her key audience there and I will say like when I got through it
I read through it the first time and I had written a ton of critical notes in the margins
but I enjoyed it like I didn't hate the book so that that's an odd feeling to have
because normally if I'm reviewing a book and I'm just super critical of it I also you know
start to dislike it a little um and so I had to ask this question like why did I enjoy it even
though like I had all these critical things to say about it and I I came to a note I wrote on
like page 30 that I think explains it because this is New Testament fan theory and I enjoy fan
theories I like going on youtube or reddit or somewhere and and seeing like somebody kind of
work out a fan theory about a movie or a book or something so I want to give you a couple of fan
theories just so we can see what I mean by a fan theory okay yeah yeah yeah so do you know any
for Ferris Bueller do I know what do you know any fan theories about Ferris Bueller it's all in
Cameron's head so it it if it's all in Cameron's head Cameron's the sort of mopey friend if you've
ever seen this movie there's a a mopey friend and then Ferris is this impossibly lucky impossibly
charming guy that has this amazing day and the fan theory is this is more explainable this impossibly
lucky impossibly charming person if it's just Cameron's fantasy about the kind of day he would
like to have if he could just be a Ferris Bueller he could have this amazing day instead he's just
homesick at his house it also for for people from Chicago so I'm sorry to anybody who hasn't seen
Ferris Bueller's day off maybe I'm aging myself but for people from Chicago it also explains
how you can do all that crap on one day because they like they go to Wrigley Field for a baseball
game they're at Sears Tower they're at the art museum they're all over the place and it's just
physically impossible to do that so if I watch it being from Chicago I'm like there's no way you're
getting all this crap done in one day yeah but if you're a kid at home fantasizing about it then
you're gonna hit all these like hot spots in Chicago and you're gonna be like oh yeah I remember going
to Sears Tower on a field trip oh I remember going to a Wrigley Field with my dad so this is a fan
theory about Ferris Bueller's day off what about the dark night oh yeah I know more about
the dark night but yeah so there's a fan theory about the Joker that the Joker is a vet in these
X special ops so it explains the scars if he was either tortured or in a in some sort of combat
and it explains how he's so good with weapons and tactical planning
because I mean he pulls off some like really impressive stuff and if he had training in
that it would make a little more sense okay here's one that I think is is a little more on point
for what we're doing it's the grand unified Pixar theory the grand unified Pixar theory is that all
the Pixar movies take place in the same universe at different points in the timeline so Wally cars
take place in the distant future toy story is more like right now and what they build this on is for
example you have certain similarities between the movies you have sentient talking animals through
different movies you have sentient talking machines through different movies so toy story cars Wally
you have these intelligent machines but you also have these like little details that they focus on
so for example in multiple movies you have a wal-mart like chain called by and large
now by and large exists in Pixar movies and doesn't exist anywhere else so it exists in
these worlds but in no other narrative worlds you also have through almost all the movies the
pizza planet truck shows up in almost all Pixar movies so pizza planet is a chain of pizza places
that exists in pizza in in Pixar movies doesn't exist anywhere else so why do I think this is
a fan theory well first of all in order for a fan theory to work in order for you to generate a
fan theory you need beloved stories you need stories that you come back to over and over and over again
you don't see fan theories about a movie somebody saw once and then never watched again
so Ferris Bueller's Day Off for people like my age you grew up watching Ferris Bueller's Day Off on
TBS every saturday the dark night people really love that movie they come back to it over and over
again the Pixar movies people grew up watching that as children so you you get involved in these
worlds you you sort of don't want to leave these narrative worlds and i would say arguably that's
the same for McGrew and the gospels acts and paul's letters that she loves these narrative
worlds she goes and spends time in these narrative worlds she want probably goes and reads the
gospels or reads acts as a way of just you know i just want to spend some time in Mark's world for
a while and i'm just going to read some stories about Jesus so first of all that's one simple one
way that her her way of going about things works like a fan theory the second thing you need is
you need to notice an inconsistency or an unanswered question so in ferris bueller's day off you have
ferris's luck his geography like i mentioned it just doesn't work out in the dark night they raise
the question of joker scars by bringing it up multiple times but telling different stories so
it raises this question of well how did he get the scars and then he asks the question do i look
like someone with a plan and it's like yeah dude you do it took meticulous planning to pull all this
crap off when you're talking about you don't look like you're dog chasing a car you definitely are
a planner so and then with the pixar movies you have the easter eggs you have the similar characters
and stuff like that so when you look at the gospels the problem is the differing timelines
the differing geography we're going to get to some of that and the different presentation of scenes
so you have just all these like little differences between them that like it almost fits together
but then i can't quite fit this thing from mark into luke or i can't quite fit this thing from luke
into john so it raises questions about the reliability of the gospels and acts for readers
so in a way maghru's book is a reaction to biblical studies it's it you need biblical studies they're
first highlighting these problems for her to then come in and say this is how i can solve it right
right by the way and i'll just mention this and we'll move on i i didn't take it terribly
personally but if you're a person like me you are skeptical and she makes this claim 17 times
i have a pdf so i just did a control left on it but 17 times i'm skeptical she is unbiased she
listens with an unbiased ear right so so there there are a fair amount of ad hominem attacks in here
but um you weren't offended though you know i was like okay whatever um but but i mean i am skeptical
so it's fine you know but there is a sort of us versus them in her rhetoric which that's why i say
when i like who's the audience of this well you would have to be somebody who would respond to that
us versus them rhetoric got it and then the last big thing is you want an in-universe solution to
the problem so uh if i want to know why is ferris bueller impossibly lucky and charming and all this
crap happens in chicago on one day dude john hughes made the movie john hughes loves chicago
he fit in all his favorite parts of chicago into the movie but that's an out-of-universe explanation
i don't want that i don't want to hear about his narrative conventions that he's been playing with
i don't want to hear about the director as a person i want to i want a solution that takes
place within the narrative universe of the movie right so when we talk about the dark knight
christopher noland made it there's your answer why are there unanswered questions because there's
no christopher noland movies without unanswered questions dude loves them why is joker a meticulous
planner that's a stock character in a christopher noland movie he loves meticulous planners so
that's why he wrote that character that way that's why he directed him that way but again that's an
out-of-universe explanation so we can talk about pixar these guys are at the same studio studio
and oh i should highlight this why are there talking animals and talking machines because
they're cartoons that's just a trope of the genre that's how you tell those sorts of stories nobody's
baffled that there's a talking animal in ratatouille or an intelligent animal in ratatouille if i'm
watching like the godfather in a talking rat shows up i'm going to be a little surprised but in a
cartoon i'm not going to be surprised so when we turn to the gospels and acts um the sort of out
of universe explanations i might bring up are well is there a literary dependence oh how are
they creatively rewriting each other are these storytelling tropes are there there's a way you
tell this story and that's why they included this detail if i'm talking about acts and paul's
letters the disputed letters is somebody just forging it like is their pseudopigrapha we we
use the the polite term pseudopigrapha but is somebody just forging a letter by paul like these are
outside of the narrative universe what she wants is an in-universe answer that doesn't take her out
of that world in order to answer things so all of those on the right there are basically biblical
studies answers and and so she doesn't want those sorts of answers but i think the book works as new
testament fan theory how do i focus on these issues how do i focus on these scenes in more depth
and contemplate how these details got there without leaving the narrative world
and not thinking about the authors not thinking about the culture not thinking about things like this
so that's what's positive about it i enjoyed it as fan theory when she tries to make it work as
historical method that's when i start to see problems that's where my critical notes start coming in
and there are some fundamental problems that make it unusable so it's not that she has a solid
framework and then just does it badly she has a weak unstable framework so it kind of doesn't
matter how well she does it if you're building on sand it doesn't matter how strong the house is
it's going to sink so this is where i'm going to take a very sort of broad view and start the narrow
end okay and i love this by the way i love how you're taking your time i do think that it is i
personally i look at this stuff like epics it's almost like its own foundation mythology of the
narrative story of jesus so in a way i actually think the authors are writing a fan fiction for the
for their for the people who are going to read this whoever they may be but i do think on a
literary level i tend to go with robin walsh on this but you know i do think that this is kind of
the intention is is in some way to get you indulged in the world that you're reading and i think they
did a good job of doing that which is why this book uh exists in my opinion but everybody
dr trip is very meticulous he is into the details and he knows some math so stay tuned because this
whole bayesian probability thing the whole foundation he said let's get deep into this i'm
looking forward to this hit the like button if you have any super chats i promise you will get to
your questions and super chats uh once we're done with the presentation so my first big problem is
just on a very broad level the argument is circular so here's what i mean you have this problem
there are inconsistencies in facts character and style between the gospels or between acts and
paul's letters but we want all of them to represent the same historical reality so i'm not just talking
about contradictions i'm not just talking about you know jesus puts the overturning of the tables
of the temple two years before jesus's death mark puts it a week before his death those are
contradictions i'm saying john's jesus talks like john that's not a contradiction but it does
raise an eyebrow and or why is jerusalem dangerous in mark or dangerous in matthew but it's like the
bee's knees and lou like the characterization of the city is very different between the two so it's
just this inconsistency of how they present stuff and it raises questions about reliability so what
we would be comfortable saying is you have different authors creatively telling a story
based on history so you're bound to find some mix of fact in fiction and the difficulty is
parsing out what do you think is fact and what do you think is fiction but she can't have that
there's no there's no fiction involved so let's assume for the moment okay that the narratives
are reliable history okay ladies and gentlemen i understand that this exercise can trigger some
please i i'm trying my best to let's play in the sandbox together here i'm trying to encourage
people because i know there's some but it's not okay you're no fun don't be a party pooper here
let's assume this is this is magruse step one let's assume that's this is how we'll get in
so we have these so say back to the example i gave we have this weird episode in john
washing people's feet we have this weird teaching or out of place teaching in luke
about a servant and jesus acting like a servant so let's assume for the moment that both of them
are telling reliable history got it now the the challenge is can i imagine a plausible scenario
that leads to both or all of these different textual details so can i do this and if i can
then i conclude that the the stories are reliable history well yeah but that was one of your assumptions
you assumed you only asked the questions you asked or did the imagining you imagine
because you assumed they were reliable history it's not then surprising that you would conclude
that they're reliable history if you didn't assume that they were reliable at the get-go
lots of types of explanations open up for why john has this and luke has this and
matthew and mark don't have either of them but you have in order to weed all those out you have to
say i'm going to assume they're reliable and then i'm going to conclude that they're reliable
so what i would be impressed with is a methodology that says i'm not going to assume anything about
the text and then i'm going to go to the data in the text and see if it leads me to believe they
are reliable what she does is assumes they're reliable from the get-go and then the new data
is her imagination so can i imagine a scenario that explains the data therefore it's reliable
and so that you can imagine several scenarios that could explain data with that assumption
like you said with that assumption um so many uh ignoring so many other issues though that's yeah
so that's my first fundamental problem with this is that her her conclusion is baked into
her assumptions you you only rule out all these other ways of doing things if you're going in
assuming your conclusion but let's say we put that to the side so that's fundamental problem
number one but we're going to ignore that broad issue then we'll go to a more specific point
about her methodology which is she just ignores contradictions and inconsistencies inconsistencies
so this is just one quote from many um entire books have been written on the subject of alleged
contradictions in the gospels so alleged contradictions because they can't actually be contradictions of
course and this is not one of those books but the decision not to be led into lengthy discussions
of that topic is not solely the result of my desire to maintain focus there's a reason for
that focus itself i believe that an understanding of the case from undesigned coincidences
helps us to see the forest and not get lost in the trees so if you focus on the coincidences
it's you not seeing the forest for the trees and she follows through on this unless occasionally
she will note it she will talk about contradictions or inconsistencies but only if they're easy to
explain or easy to dismiss right um but for the most part she doesn't bother with them
and her justification for this is something i've seen in other even like biblical studies
that's aiming to argue for the reliability of the gospel so she points to um this j. Warner
Wallace who is a former detective and a christian apologist at biola so he says no single witness is
likely to have seen every detail so i must piece together the accounts allowing the observations
of one eyewitness to fill in the gaps that may exist in the observations of another eyewitness
true reliable witness eyewitness accounts are never completely parable parallel and identical
instead they are different pieces of the same puzzle unintentionally supporting and complimenting
each other okay so one will put to the side that this is not the same i've seen this comparison
made a lot but i've also seen it refuted by people are talking about the difference between
say having an eyewitness orally give you their testimony closely after the fact
and writing a fully formed biography 40 years after the fact those are different endeavors
there's going to be different pressures um we also make an effort to keep eyewitnesses separate
before we can get their statements on things because we don't want cross-contamination
we don't have any of those assurances and in fact like you brought up we have plenty of evidence
that there was lots of cross-contamination between the gospels so i already have issues with this as
a justification but even if we grant it so again if we grant it there's one big problem
detectives do not decide on the reliability of testimony
judges and juries decide on the reliability of testimony by hearing arguments for and against
its reliability it's a defense attorney's job to point out inconsistencies in the testimony
if that any to any witness that the prosecutor brings for
so essentially what she's doing is not giving you the contradictions and inconsistencies
she only wants you to hear from the prosecutor which makes it a show trial
like if you have like a soviet show trial yeah you'll get your guilty verdict but you won't
necessarily get a true verdict or you won't you frequently will get an untrue verdict
you have judges and juries specifically hear two sides of something in order to make a
more informed judgment so this analogy from detective work just doesn't work for me
like i want to hear all the details i'm more impressed if i read a book and the person is like
here's the best case against me let me let me point you to all the people who would say i'm wrong
i want you to read those people and i want to point out all the weaknesses in my own argument
in this in the last publication i did i have a whole section where i'm like if you want to
build on what i'm doing here's how to prove me wrong because i know a lot of you are going to
disagree with me so i have pages of here are some methods for proving me wrong go down these routes
and you might have a good chance of just sweeping me off the board because that's sort of our job
if we want to get at the truth the other issue is she calls these coincidences and the problem with
calling them coincidences and then treating them like this is that coincidences only have
meaning in light of the conflicts so let me give you an example i've got a kid who's on a like pwe
football team and he wants to be the kid to go out and call the coin flip he's like i'm awesome coach
and i'm i'm awesome at it i can call the coin so good so his friend starts flipping a coin and he
starts calling it and his friend's on his side his friend's like oh yeah this is amazing it's like
head see he called heads it's amazing oh he got it again great that's fun some of the people
who are standing around listening to this are going to be like man he really does coin call
the coin really well that's that's pretty impressive like maybe we should make him the captain so he
can call the coin that's very different than if somebody was just standing by who didn't have a
stake in the the decision going same different same different different same like if you're just
calling the similarities and the differences then you would be like well about half the time you
were right because that's what we expect and so if you did it a hundred times and he got 70 right
that's remarkable but if you did it a hundred times and he only got 53 right you'd be like
yeah that's about what we'd expect let me give you another example because this just came up
while i was reading this so i'm going to run a scam i've got my hands on 512 000 i did not come
up with this i got this off a tiktok so i i've got my hands on 512 000 contacts and before the
first game of the nfl season i'm going to message half those contacts and tell them team a is going
to win and i'm going to message the other half and say team b is going to win now let's say team a
wins i'm never going to message the people i said team b was going to win again but all the ones i
got right the team a people i'm going to message them again the next week the day before the game
half of them one team's going to win half of them the other team's going to win whoever i get wrong
never talk to them again whoever i get right i'm going to keep messaging i do this nine weeks in a
row i still have 200 people on my list and those 200 people have seen me get the game right the day
before nine weeks in a row i have a hundred percent success rate with those people so on week 10 i
changed my message for the low low price of five thousand dollars i will tell you who's going to win
tomorrow now all they know is that i have gotten every game right this season so some of them are
going to be tempted and if all of them do it i'm i'm you know i've got a good payday there
but the problem i'm going to get up to a million dollars the problem is they're only being scammed
because they don't know the conflicts they don't know all the times i got wrong right i literally
got 50 right by design and yet they don't know this because they didn't look at the inconsistencies
between what i said and what happened and therefore they're going to have a bad judgment of of how
truth will i be so you need to look at if you're going to look at coincidences they only have meaning
in light of the times that it doesn't work out you need to compare both in order to have any
sort of meeting so i don't agree with the idea of just not looking at the conflicts and contradictions
and here we are there's a fundamental failure of Bayesian reasoning and this connects back to
our justification so this connects back to the detective so let's ignore the circular argument
and let's just grant that we can ignore inconsistencies because we believe that
undesigned coincidences alone just on their own are worth noting this is meaningful i mean citations
are like that if i cite that i'm quoting isa and then i quote isa you know i know isa
right it doesn't matter how much i change out of isa you know i'm familiar with the text so
maybe undesigned coincidences are just worth noticing on their own so what bayes looked at
was conditional probabilities so to give you an example let's say i picked a random animal
and i want to know what is the likelihood that i picked a dog but i'm going to give you a little
information i'm going to say i'm going to give you a hint i did pick a mammal well it's still
not very likely that i picked a dog so the probability that i picked a dog even given the
information that i picked a mammal is probably less than one percent i mean you have primates and
water and water mammals and non dog canines all sorts of mammals that aren't dogs
but let's say i switch that up and this is where bayes comes in bayes focused on what happens when
you switch what information you have and what information you're trying to calculate the
probability of so now let me ask what is the probability that the animal i picked is a mammal
if i give you the information that it's a dog well then it's a hundred percent right
and these are wildly different probabilities so one is close to zero on one extreme and one is
exactly a hundred on the other extreme so bayes focused on the idea that you these two probabilities
if you switch up what you know and what you're trying to find are not the same and there's a
relationship bayes theorem has a formula if you know all the like inputs to the formula you can go
from one to the other but most of the time those are not the same probability and just because one
is extremely likely in this case one is certain but the other one is extremely unlikely so switching
them gives you no assurances about what the value is her precedent says that the probability
that one will find undesigned coincidences if i give you the information that it's reliable
testimony that probability is high i mean she doesn't have a long discussion of it i'm willing
to trust her she makes like she spends all of like two pages on this argument but sure if i grant
you that argument what your precedent shows is that if i know it's reliable testimony i expect
to see undesigned coincidences but that's not her method her method is to treat it like the
probability that testimony is reliable given that one finds undesigned coincidence is high
she switches dogs and mammals so no wonder there's so much confidence
and certitude in a lot of the apologists who who push this view they have that in their mind it's
it's almost like certain that what they're looking at is the case but but but it's we we just don't
have she hasn't provided any information i don't know that she's wrong but i don't know that she's
right and she hasn't given any argument in support of her actual method which is to treat it like
if i see undesigned coincidences then it's a sign of reliability so here's one comment
so she says casual comments illusions and omissions that fit together are not what one
would find in different fictional or fictionalized works written by different people they're also not
to be expected among different legendary stories that grew up gradually long after the events so
she almost pushes it to the idea that you will not see undesigned coincidences if you're talking
about fictional accounts or even fictionalized which i take to mean she's she's looking at like
a historical account that i've been indulged so then i wouldn't see these these undesigned coincidences
so she finds 47 undesigned coincidences across 18 texts some of them full volume works
which is about two and a half undesigned coincidences a text so then we have to ask the
question like if i can go through a different set of texts if i can find on average two and a half
undesigned coincidences per text does that mean it's reliable testimony using her her
method the way that she's yes in fact that's why i gave people a fair warning on the apologia
video get ready to start worshiping Heracles vespagian i mean look we're gonna find some
undesigned coincidences hallelujah i knew heracles was the one i loved his 12 labors it
just resonated in my soul anyway uh being funny so well we'll we'll start even more recently
we're gonna prove that bruce wane really is batman um and that his parents were killed
in an alleyway when he was a boy so there are now five or six different tellings of the story
across different movies between the different batman movies and even like a scene in watchmen
that that has this image only owl man breaks in so there are consistencies there's a pearl necklace
always involved by the way the pearl necklace wasn't in the original comic that was a different
type of necklace but it caught on and it just became the way you tell this story but okay
we have a consistent use of that even though it's false but it's always in or near an alleyway
so the wanes are never killed scheme they're never even killed like they're never stabbed
they're always shot so there's certain consistencies there's a question of are there is there one
robber or two is there one mugger or two so in batman 89 there are two muggers but in all the
other versions there's only one well if i were approaching this from a magruin angle um i could
say well one of them's the joker in batman 89 and the other one could be joe chill we don't get a
name for him but he could be joe chill so like matthew sometimes has two demoniacs or two blind men
and the other gospels only have one i can just trust that tim burton is giving me the full story
and the other ones are only giving me part of the story and in fact if in the one on the right
there is from the joker so that would be a joe chill figure but he's wearing a clown mask so it's
very easy for you to understand how a small boy like roose wane would get those conflated he's like
oh it's part joker part you know the joker really killed mom and dad but you know he was i got a
little confused now there's also a conflict between the depiction of the scene and reality
because it takes place in gotham and there's no gotham city but see this is because you're skeptical
and biased um the gotham is a nickname for new york and it was through the 1800s and early
part of the 20th century so it probably reflects how bruce wane reflected referred to new york
when he told the story to his friends and family but then you might come back you know some scholar
might come back and say well there's very few alleys in new york um it's not a chicago or a
philadelphia where you have you know alleys all over the place there's very few alleys but here's
the thing that only proves that it's more reliable because there are some alleys it's not impossible
and why would you make it up why would you make that detail up that there's an alleyway
so that just convinces me more that this is based on reliable testimony and there are also
undesigned coincidences in the fact that for example in some you don't actually see the alleyway
but you see a steel door and a plain brick wall where are you going to find them you're
going to find them in alleyways so that makes it fits without being explicit about depending on
these other works why would you why wouldn't you highlight the fact that it was an alleyway if
you're making up your story about bruce wane's parents being killed no okay so i'm being obnoxious
but the i'm even willing to say okay this is garbage but
i'm willing to say that because this is too late this is thousands of years later
this is a different form of media okay well we'll put this to the side yeah this is ob
dr trev come on i mean this is obviously fiction we all are in agreement this is fiction but the
gospels you know but we were told we were told last slide that we would not find
undesigned coincidences in fiction or fictionalized work so something must have changed literally
from the first century to the 20th century that we are now finding undesigned coincidences
in fictional works but okay maybe the claim is that back then you wouldn't have found them
that's what we're going to claim okay okay so heracles this is from uh european east play
heracles and it has his wife turning to one of their sons now his wife at this point thinks he's
dead um he's been missing for years and his last labor was to go down to hades so she thinks he just
got trapped down there and he's dead um she doesn't know he's on the way back so that's the sort of
dramatic tension of the play uh and at this point she's talking to her sons and she turns
to one and she says to you your father now gone would have assigned argus you would have had the
seat of prouduristius the rich and productive fields of palestia throwing over your head the
robe of the beast the lion's skin in which he himself was armed now there's multiple sons around
why does this kid get the lion's skin because what she's referring to is the nemean lion
right one of the things that heracles had to defeat this lion that was impenetrable undefeatable
i mean it just of course he snapped its neck and it took its mane so every you know every sculpture
you see of heracles is either him killing the lion or him carrying the skin of the lion as
like his armor right because it's impenetrable but like why would you bring up argus and palestia
as as the places if it's associated with nemia like that doesn't seem if it were fictional
you would think that you would bring up the place that people would know which is nemia not these
other places well nemia is down in the peloponnesus so is argus argus is a little ways off but it's in
the eastern peloponnesus now palestia is not even like a place it's not an official land
no one nobody's king of palestia and there's even some inconsistency on where people refer to it
with this name but if we look at places in the appropriate time period that were referred to as
palestia oh wait they're on the eastern side of the peloponnesus which includes nemia so of course
if you had a son who was going to rule over a a region that includes nemia you would want him to
have the lion skin because that's something that those people would respect so we have regions
colloquially referred to as palestia around nemia and she's just speaking naturally in that time
period they're going to know where palestia is they're going to know where argus is so she doesn't
need to spell out the fact that she's referring to this other story she can just casually talk about
this so we have this uh undesigned geographical coincidence and there are others um i'm not a
devotional reader of uh heracles works right i mean i've read some but i i'll look past your sins
okay yeah he'll he'll come after me himself um but the but i don't go to bed reading euripides
i don't go to bed reading you know hercules furans and yet i just glanced through them and i found
these sorts of of undesigned coincidences between them so what you would see is like
uh you know hercules has just come from a certain labor and now he's in a certain town
and you're like well
okay how does that fit together well he also has to go back to get his next labor
and that that town is on the way to that labor now that particular work doesn't mention
any of that contextual information so all it does is assume that you know it but if i were
reading this through a magruin lens i would say well yeah he doesn't need to mention it because
this is just him relating what he reliably heard right um reportage model right yeah they keep
bringing up so so we're treating these sorts of illusions because we would that's all we would
do in these cases we would just treat them as illusions people are familiar with the hercules
story so they know where to put them at what times uh but they that's how we would treat pericles
but we're we're sort of treating jesus and paul differently and maybe the reason here is well
this is way too long back i mean a couple slides ago she did say that we shouldn't expect this from
different legendary stories that grew up gradually along after the events she made that claim
and we're we're sort of seeing that but it's a fair point these have they had a long time to be
really familiar with the hercules story and absorb it so much that they could make these
illusions without really explaining them so let's take something that's just to paint the picture
real quick is that bruce wane too close to us not far enough back heracles deep deep roots
into antiquity may even stem all the way back to freaking hit heights for all we know i mean
this this is a very old character that's found his stories down through and you know maybe these
are accurate i mean you're pointing out some clear things here but it's so far back we need to be
closer to jesus dr trev yeah but we still and we also because part of the goal of of hidden in plain
view is to highlight that the undesigned coincidences happen in stories with no miraculous events and
stories with miraculous events right so when vespasian became emperor he happened to be in
alexandria in egypt and suetonius tacitus and docasius all relate the story of him finding out
that he was emperor and at the same time they all relate a story of vespasian healing a blind man
with his spit so very much like jesus and also healing a man with a withered hand or leg it
sort of depends on which version you're reading but we're not here to concentrate on the inconsistencies
um what is consistent is he he heals them by stepping on him so he puts his heel on the guy
and either on his hand or his leg and it's healed um each of them contains distinct elements
to their story so they each have distinct details so in suetonius vespasian offers a sacrifice to
the god syrups so he goes into the temple offers a sacrifice to syrups so not to any other gods
none of the other egyptian gods to that one specifically and then syrups is the god who
tells the blind man and the man with the withered limb that they should go to vespasian to be healed
so they have this visionary dream now in tacitus um he doesn't include the sacrifice at the temple
of syrups he just notes that vespasian was waiting for summer weather to travel by boat so it seems
like it's sort of late spring and he's waiting for the the water to calm down before he travels back
to room but syrups does show up in that he's the again the one that tells the disabled men to go
to vespasian by the time we get to deocassius no sacrifice in the temple no summer winds but
the nile overflows and it seems to have happened early so it seems like vespasian
enters the city and all of a sudden the land is flourishing with the an overflowing nile
and he he doesn't mention syrups at all he only says that the men received a vision and dreams
so it doesn't say where it came from all of these details all of these distinct details
whether it's the sacrifice to syrups in his temple whether it's waiting for the summer winds
or whether the nile overflowing a little early point to late spring they all point to late
april early may so we have but they're not clearly not dependent on each other so tacitus shows no
no evidence that he is concerned with the sacrifice to syrups and suetonius shows no
interest in the summer weather like they they don't reflect each other at all
in those distinct details and yet they all agree on the timing of this event
which means they're undesigned coincidences it's clear that deocassius is not copying from
suetonius or tacitus and yet it fits together with what they said so what magru might say is
that this shows that vespasian was in alexandria in late spring when he became emperor and i'd agree
but it doesn't prove that vespasian actually healed these men
that amen okay i've been saying this like okay we might find as you talk about and i'm sure you
probably have it in your presentation i feel like i'm skipping ahead like characters might
be from regions or something may have taken place whether you take an oral memory angle
whether you take a particular testimonial like hey this is just kind of like in early
communities people were talking about it your point in this is that they're not genetically
dependent on each other for the source so somehow vespasian's narrative or story has
been consistent through some type of spreading about how vespasian did this but they're all
consistent also on him healing is it not mistaken let me see only yeah yeah yeah so he heals
and he heals the blind man in the same way he heals the the lame man in the same way he uses
the same technique um so there are other consistent details but there are these distinct details
that aren't don't mirror each other but they agree on on a detail about the overall situation
that this healing took place in so to me these fit the criteria for an undesigned coincidence
again it's not super well defined but based on the examples i see in her book this would seem to
fit i think if this happened in matthew mark and luke we would have an undesigned coincidence
based on her model see yeah that word i have a problem with and that you do too
undesigned in this case if i would say there's a design if i was going to say that there was
something about this that was designed it was that these are literary historians who are writing
and and they knew to account this as part of something that they're writing period so if there
is any design to it is that this is the model in which these authors would have known to have written
about vespasian or written about their emperors or whatever but they don't even need to be
genetically communicating i'm looking at the gospels and you know we could really use an
undesigned coincidence in this account she admits unless she wants to die on a different hill
that they know of each other in in fact are using each other's work so i don't know about you but
like that whole undesigned just because something seems odd or it connects in a way that allows the
other one to finish the incompleteness of the other narrative when you know these authors know
about the other work and they're using them you see the problem i'm sure yeah so it's it you know i
could apply that here so let's say tacitus has read suetonius i'm i'm not familiar enough with
tacitus's writing habits to to comment on what his his propensities are but it's entirely possible
you might have a situation where tacitus reads suetonius and he sees vespasian offering sacrifice
to the god syrups and for whatever reason he doesn't like that but he knows that that signifies
a certain time of year okay so i need to signify that it's spring in a different way oh so he's
waiting for the summer summer winds so it's it doesn't mean that he actually was waiting for
the summer winds or or what have you but he it looks undesigned because he consciously changed it
right if he had any objections to this image of the emperor sacrificing to an egyptian god
but if there were dependence then it really undercuts the idea that this is actually
undesigned and a coincidence you can be designing something to not match or you could be designing
something like you said to fill in a gap so if we go back to the first one we had in in the last
summer there are a lot of john scholars that look at that episode and say what is happening here
is john is red luke and he's not happy with this image of the disciples fighting with each other
about who's greatest doesn't include that anywhere in his his book but he likes this idea of jesus
not reclining at the table and acting as a servant so he narrativizes it instead of a teaching
he gives it as an episode that illustrates the same point so they don't match on purpose but
there's still a coincidence there's still the agreement in the theme because he's being inspired
by luke but he just doesn't feel the need to actually follow luke now you may agree with those
scholars or not but there are other possibilities yeah and you don't have to just because you have
a distinct detail doesn't mean you're completely independent of the other person or it's based
on reliable independent tradition there's any number of ways that that distinct detail could have
come into the later work okay so i don't want to interrupt while you're in the middle of presentation
because there's so many things i'm sure we can rather go into well let's look at some actual
examples so we've been sort of going in and in like looking at just in general what the issue is now
what is the the issue with her specific claims about undesigned coincidences
so now let's look at one key text so i'm going to look at the feeding of the 5000
and i'm going to look at that because this is like the the trophy text so there are four
undesigned coincidences in like one block of stories now granted it shows up in all four
gospels so you had more opportunities it's still an average of one per text but it's contributing
a lot um so what she looks at here for example in john john is weird in that for most of the
gospel you know what time of year it is if not the exact date you don't know which year it is but
you know what you know where on the calendar you are he's weird like that the other ones you don't
know exactly where you are on the calendar and in john six when he gets to the feeding of the 5000
he talks about the fact that it's just before her Passover if we turn to mark she connects that
just before Passover to two details two distinct details in mark so he first of all says that many
were coming and going and he also notes that there was green grass so these are sort of distinct
to mark now here's her her way of approaching it one might first guess that the reference to many
coming and going is merely another illusion to the fact that Jesus was often pressed and followed
by crowds and indeed as the passage goes on mark does say that the crowds found a way to follow
but the phrase many were coming and going is slightly odd as a description of Jesus's popularity
alone and suggests that there was some other reason for the general bustle of crowds in their
vicinity i don't know that i agree with her but okay we'll run with it but mark gives no further
explanation for the busyness surrounding them john does though without any appearance of
intending to explain anything at all when he says now the Passover the feast of the Jews was at hand
so this is the issue like on the one hand if it's Passover what she says is she sort of
imagines a bunch of pilgrims going to Jerusalem they're coming and going they're going on the
road by Jesus so you have these crowds of people going by Jesus and that fits with Jesus's or
john's claim that the Passover was at hand now first of all um mark doesn't have a standard way of
talking about the many um so i'm not sure what is slightly odd so slightly odd in what sense
he talks about many around Jesus on a lot of different occasions but he never does it the
same way twice so many were coming and going just to me fits within the variation that mark has it
doesn't necessarily signify that something weird is going on but she wants it to fit Passover
so we can also focus on the grass um in mark it says green grass
Matthew gets rid of the green Luke gets rid of the reference to grass altogether
and in john it's not entirely absent so there's much grass for me this raises some questions about
do one does Matthew and Luke kind of disagree with mark and that's why they edited out or do
they just treat it as an extraneous detail so as Luke like i don't need this i need to get along
i need to compact this down because his is a lot shorter and Matthew often shortens mark so
you know does he i don't need to mention that it was green grass there was a lot of grass
to an extent i think the much grass sort of confirms mark or agrees with mark in that um
at least when i lived in the desert so i used to live in new mexico and there were areas that
would spring up with grass when the the sort of rains came in the summer and when you were going
by there before it looked like barren and dirt with little tufts of grass and then all of a sudden
the rains would come through it would flood through and then now it looks like a big grassy field
so is john agreeing with mark but sort of putting in a detail that would be more consistent with him
growing up in palestine uh so but the point is there is grass throughout so it there's an argument
to be made that john knows what mark is doing and it understands the the sort of implications of
there being green grass that it would be there the grass is not green all year long it would be in
the spring so then it becomes a question of are there other ways to explain this undesigned
coincidence so other questions the scene raises first of all before we even get on anything
is it pure coincidence like isn't an actual coincidence i mean all you know is that both
things happened in spring if that's all you know you have a one in four chance of that
happening by mistake by random chance they just put it in a season you have a one in four chance
of that agreeing um now when john at least 13 chapters of john take place in spring so it's
more likely than not that something's gonna take place in spring john builds on the Passover imagery
in his bread of life speech that follows so if he wanted to give this bread of life speech
and talk about the mana and all these kinds of things then it would make sense to put a note
in before all these episodes begin that it was almost Passover and make that connection so um
um what i think magru might point out rightly is mark is very sparse on temporal indicators
you almost never know when mark is taking place so the idea that he added a temporal indicator
and he added it in this particular story okay that's maybe pushing it too far so we may not
want to say it's pure coincidence does john know mark does the green grass put it in john's head
that this is taking place in the spring so i'm going to change it to much grass i'm going to
put it just before Passover because that i he tends to tie everything he's doing to
specific festivals uh in the jewish calendar so okay this one's in spring i'm going to put it
just before Passover and also are we sure that mark's grass is a historical detail at all so
i just listed a few passages here where grass growing in barren places is part of messianic
predictions of what's going to happen in the messianic age so in Deuteronomy he will
Yahweh will give grass in your fields for your livestock and you will eat your fill and now we
have a miracle about eating your fill and he incorporates this image of grass
Psalm 140 by the way he refers to Deuteronomy 11 mark does in mark 12 so he knows this passage
and Psalm 147 he makes grass grows on the hills and this is a recurring motif in the Psalms
and Isaiah 35 the grass will become reeds and rushes so it'd be very plentiful and but it would
be much there was much grass but mark also refers to or alludes to Isaiah 35 in mark 7 so he knows
this passage Isaiah 66 your bodies will flourish like the grass and again this is incorporated
in mark 9 so mark's familiar with these passages is it a historical detail at all or
is it is it something he brought in to bring out this messianic motif of Jesus feeding the crowds
again I don't have an answer but these are questions I would raise
another one many were coming and going why ask Philip in John so in mark in the synoptics
he just asks the disciples but in typical John fashion he specifies who he was talking to
and he's talking to Philip this raises the question of where does this miracle take place
because there's tension between mark and john so in mark there's somewhere where the many were
coming and going and then they go to a wild place by boat but it's within walking or following
distance from the place they were originally so the crowds sort of follow along the shore
so they didn't like diagonally cut across Galilee then he performs the miracle and the disciples
go ahead to the other side towards Bethsaida so what it looks like in mark is they started out on
the west shore and they went east to Bethsaida in John Jesus went away to the other side of the lake
of Galilee in six one so he's on the other side from what we don't know he's on the other side
but then at the end of the story they travel by boat across the lake to Capernaum which looks like
they were on the east shore and headed west so mark looks like they're on the west shore and
headed east john looks like they're on the east shore and headed west philip allows her to
sort of construct a way of understanding this in which they're sort of zigzagging across the lake
so her solution is that they start in Capernaum where Passover pilgrims are traveling by
I could bring up that one she trusts Josephus way too much on his numbers and he has a real
propensity to exaggerate numbers so he's like millions come by and it's like probably not
and second Ray Brown at least in his commentary on John points out that Capernaum wasn't on
any major pilgrimage routes but maybe there are enough people coming by okay
so Jesus starts in Capernaum and then he leaves to Bethsaida where he performs the miracle
mark just doesn't mention that so it's a detail in John and Luke by the way because Luke mentions
explicitly Bethsaida but mark just doesn't happen to mention that they went across all the way
across the lake to Bethsaida so he starts over here goes over here then he comes back to Capernaum
as in John so he can give his whole speech in the synagogue on the Sabbath and then so Mark
doesn't mention that doesn't feel the need to mention the the synagogue episode but then hops
back in the boat and goes across to Ganesaret so he can be in Ganesaret
for the end of mark where they actually end up
I mean it's possible but there's a simpler way what's creating this need to have Jesus
zigzagging all over the place and still not have it be completely satisfactory is that both of
these guys have to agree with each other if you just do away with that assumption a much easier
solution presents itself mark has Jesus on the west side of the lake for the miracle there's plenty
of hills over there then the disciples head east toward Bethsaida she she makes a kind of snarky
comment about that translation but it's like that's what those words mean so I'm not exactly sure
what problem she has with the translation but it says they head toward Bethsaida they get caught
in the storm and after meeting up with Jesus mid lake they land in Ganesaret which is on the
southeast side of the lake so miracle on the west side head east across the lake storm happens they
get sort of diverted down to Ganesaret and that's where the end of mark takes place marks it
John if he doesn't need to agree with mark like Luke has the miracle on the east side of the lake
near Bethsaida and Philip plays a role here because she she claims well he asks Philip because Philip
is from Bethsaida explicitly in John so the miracle happens on the east side they head west as John
mentions multiple times they were going across the lake to Capernaum they got to where they were going
the crowds went to Capernaum so John's is very simple start on the east go west and there's no
zigzagging around it's only when you have to make these two things fit together that you get Jesus
bouncing back and forth across the lake and then we have the 5000 who now so mark says they ordered
them to get all they ordered them all to get to get them all to sit down by group so all is Pontus
it's it's everyone it's it's masculine but that just means it's personal not a thing and they sat
down in groups by hundreds and fifties those who had eaten the loaves numbered 5000 men and what she
focuses on here is the fact that they are consistent insane men the issue comes in Matthew where it
says those who ate were about 5000 men besides women and children like why does nobody else mention
women and children what she keys in him in John is 610 where he says make the people sit down
so anthropoid so the men sat down about 5000 in number so in her way of understanding John is
accommodating Matthew's women and children in a weird way because Jesus orders them to sit down
and only some of them do so it's a weird detail for John to include to say well a good chunk of
the crowd just said f off Jesus I don't feel like sitting down but the the people sit down
and then it's really the men who sit down and they're 5000 and we know they're 5000 because
they sat in their fifties and hundreds and we could count them putting aside the fact that all of them
are it's about 5000 or all the later ones so are they consistent in ass adding to mark about 5000
because they're not happy with his precise number I'm not sure um so it explains the count of men
it it explains the stability of the 5000 even if it does become about we could point out analogies
to like the 300 Spartans we know exactly how many Spartans defended Sparta even if it probably
wasn't exactly 300 Spartans um in this way John can allow Matthew to fit in with everybody else
so this is the undesigned coincidence his his his vocabulary shift from Anthropoi to Androi
is what allows Matthew to fit in okay so let's grant um McGrew's interpretation of the scene
so I'm like I've raised questions I would have but let's say she's answered all my questions I'm
convinced what has she shown well she's shown that John thinks Philip is from Bethsaida but we knew
that and that John may agree with Luke against Mark that the event that the feeding of the 5000
should take place near Bethsaida so when you tell the story you should place it near Bethsaida on
the east side of the lake okay she's shown that Mark may confirm that the event should take place in
spring that's assuming it's not a theological detail that's also assuming that it's not just a wrong
detail because he's from Italy and green grass is to be expected in Italy and maybe he doesn't
know exactly how things work in the east and that's why Luke and Matthew get rid of that detail
but again we're assuming we've been convinced so Mark may confirm that the event should take
place in spring and that there was a reasonable way to come up with a number of about 5000 men
and accommodate Matthew's women and children so that's what she has shown so
John thinks he the miracle was multiplied or the uh the food was yeah well yeah so so first of all
let me draw some connections back so he John thinks John agrees with Luke that the thing happened
in Bethsaida and we can find a zigzaggy way of fitting Mark into that so they agree on the location
that's sort of like Heracles in Euripides agreeing that the skin should be in the eastern
Peloponnesus so we should be on the eastern side of the lake just like they agree that if you're
going to give the skin to a son you should be on the eastern side of the Peloponnesus
they agree that it should take place in spring just like and they indicate that it should happen
in spring in different ways just like the various reporters of Vespasian's miracle agree that this
event should happen in spring and they reported that they indicated that in various ways and
that there was a reasonable way to come to the number of 5000 men so this is is a sort of believable
detail because we put them in these military formations of hundreds and fifties just like
again the wanes are always killed in an alleyway that's a reasonable place to get hit by a mugger
um they're not hit at a a gala ball in mugged by a guy at a gala ball that's not a reasonable
place to have somebody mugged so you don't put it there you put it in somewhere someone's more
likely to be mugged even if it doesn't fit the sort of infrastructure of the city you're talking about
so for me then I'm worried about cross-contamination
I John can get the fact that it's in Bethsaida from Luke and maybe he's got Luke and Mark in
front of him and he's got to decide between them and he just chose Luke right because Luke had a
stronger indication of where it happened and he sees that mark put it in spring so that maybe
gives him an idea and he puts it just before Passover um I don't know that I would read that
much into his shift from anthropoid to android he's not he likes variation but if you really did put
in in that much work okay if he's read Matthew he knows there are women and children there so
you haven't for me eliminated cross-contamination and that this is just the way you tell this story
and again like you just mentioned just because there's a way you tell the story doesn't mean
the contentious part the part that people have trouble with which is the grand miracle
actually took place and I want to I want to flip that for one second I don't want to hog time here
because I'm loving this they don't think Vespasian had the power to do what he did they don't believe
that Asclepius really has powers from God that he's truly someone of nobility and true
someone that should probably be worshiped no they probably would categorize it in fiction
they probably would categorize it in similar categories that I would it's when you get to this
that the fan fiction comes in but this is not fiction to them it's they're wanting to make
this real and so I don't think they're consistent on that even if we were somehow convinced on all
the arguments okay they went to these places they went into the field and it was this time of the
year and somehow that's the case none of that even comes close to convincing anyone unless you're
already drinking the Kool-Aid I like to call it that the miracle itself actually happened
just because you have these places you can open up any of the fictions in the Greek and Roman world
they're gonna place on the Aeolian islands go read Homer go read Odyssey you know these particular
texts that I've been mentioning over and over read Virgil's Aeneid they are written contemporaneous
about a Caesar Augustus ultimately about him being that fruition this this particular line of
divine men through emperors the imperial cult and how this long history going all the way down
to the Roman Empire being chosen and Romulus for telling it the whole nine we don't read that and
think this is literally what exactly happened in that case you see what I'm saying so there's my
right so this I mean this goes back to it's fundamentally a circular argument if you don't
award the Gospels a special treatment then you're not going to come to the same conclusions
or you're not going to have you're not going to be as convinced by her argument and so since I don't
treat the Gospels as if they they need special methods and special ways of approaching them
I don't just assume they're reliable on every count then having these undesigned coincidences
and knowing these undesigned coincidences happen in literature that's fantastical
outside of the Gospels to me it just doesn't say much of anything it says that other than
there's a way you tell this story in the 40 50 60 years since the event a way of telling this story
emerged and I'm willing to bet that anybody in in the audience that's from the US
could tell you the story of George Washington and the cherry tree there's a way you tell that story
and you know the punchline you know you have to end with you know father I cannot tell a lie
I chopped down the cherry tree it doesn't mean it actually took place even though all the figures
are historical all the setting is realistic he grew up around cherry trees but even if you had
different tellings of the story and they had undesigned coincidences it doesn't make an argument
that that event actually happened or it just wouldn't convince me that it actually happened
it's not even fantastical it's just a sort of story to illustrate that George Washington was always
honest but you know so I'm worried about cross-contamination she sort of treats any unique detail
as an independent reliable tradition that was brought forward into the gospel from the time it
happened and none of these point to the idea that the the miracle actually happened right right
even if we granted the whole historical reportage that's what I'm saying it's like let's try to
somehow nail this down as if they're granting let's say like Allison and others Bart Ehrman
others that are kind of more on the whole oral memory position of suggesting there's a memory
here let's just say this memory is reflecting that they went out into this land and it's not
mimesis it's not just scriptures as you pointed out some prophetic fulfillment of messianic
expectation or any of that this is what actually is going on the account that account of the miracle
claim does not follow is my point um they want you to go people places things real real real
then you get to this thing and it's like whoa that's a that's a big pill to swallow and there's
several of those big pills throughout this literature to swallow endless literally endless pills like
that you have to swallow you give them other accounts you give them other figures vespasian
you give them other gods dimmy gods miracle accounts no thank you I'm not swallowing that pill
that's the inconsistency they might throw you have a humane worldview I have you have an
inconsistent one where you think this is the one and everyone else is it and I've said it before if
I became a supernaturalist again where I opened up that world I would want to consistently say hey
based on this criteria if I think the gospels are doing this I think that this other literature is
also reflecting the realities of other other claims other gods other figures and in some way
I might even go that's true too so now I'm like this universalist uh supernaturalist who thinks
gods or god is working through different people and different gods and different avenues and cultures
and religions etc like I'm not going to be inconsistent that's the problem my there are
people who you know take that position and uh so it's it's an option so these are choices and this
is this is sort of like what I focus on you're making choices as you go in into this and in this
case you have to choose to very explicitly say this is different and this is why I say this would
appeal to someone who's not terribly familiar with other first century literature because if you
are familiar with other first century literature you're going to start asking those questions
like wait does this not happen elsewhere and when you see it happen elsewhere then her her original
claim her specific claim about undesigned coincidences that you will not find these
in fictional or fictionalized sources or at least you won't find many of them
starts to fall apart and and if you're not willing to believe that Vespasian healed somebody with spit
then why you have to ask yourself the question why are you willing to believe on these grounds
that Jesus did these miraculous things I mean if if Phillips from Bethsaida John thinks Phillips
from Bethsaida and he reads Luke and this thing happens in Bethsaida well then yeah Phillips
is going to be my go-to guy right but and Phillips a real guy but in Bethsaida is a real place
but it's still you it doesn't alleviate the suspicion for me that John has a tendency to specify
vague anonymous characters in the synoptics so where it's an anonymous woman in the synoptics
it's Mary in John but we also find this in the patristics they would take characters or elaborate
and give them more context but we it's almost like a it's like a even a Jewish tradition
look at Enoch he gets one little glimpse next thing you know you have this fan fiction literature
where it just tells you everything about what happened when he went up in heaven and you know
this happens I think it's probably a phenomena that's found in several origins of particular
religions where they elaborate on the characters over time giving them more details and things
I imagine John might be doing this but I can't prove that he is I'm saying you know but they
can't prove either so that's the right and that's the whole that's the problem we're stuck in this
this state of uncertainty so where there are different ways of explaining the same data
we can go through one model we can go through another model we can go through a third model
and we can all end up at the same place and unless we get more actual data we're not in a
position always to rule out one or the other and this is you know again one of my fundamental
problems here is that the new data is her imagination so her ability to imagine a historical
detail or historical scenario that gave rise to John and Luke and Mark and Matthew and if she
can do that she's satisfied that whatever she imagined is what really happened and I mean it's
it's a risky thing I mean I think it's a risky thing for her it's it's her religion she can do
as she wants to but you know a your there's always imagination in in historical work so I'm not
saying like oh she used her imagination that's bad but to reify your imagination to set it in stone
is you know to risk worshiping something made with human hands and it's a creation of yours
and so I would be weary of setting it in stone and saying this is now allows me to to worship
through the Bible in the way I want to when it's not dependent on the Bible it's dependent on my
imagination so I'm not interrupt are you so how as far as slides go do we have more presentation
one more okay and then we can we can we can we can get to have a little bit of small talk after
about things that I'd like to dive into with you then we can get to our super chats and and things
like that whenever we uh because there's so much that I'd like to dig in with you if that's okay
so I I've I've been completely ignoring acts and I know some people are like when is he getting
to act um but I I do want to sort of take a a broad view again and just say again let's ignore
all the fundamental problems that I have let's ignore all the questions that I would raise on
particular issues let us say that we're going to grant that she's made a convincing argument
47 times in a row so she's that's what she's done that every single it instance I've been like yeah
I I agree with that what has she shown overall well she's shown that the gospels take place
in the same basic narrative universe as long as you ignore the contradictions and the inconsistencies
so they she hasn't shown that they are all necessarily historically reliable
what she's shown is that they tell these stories in a way that fits together
even if we grant everything but them fitting together doesn't prove that they're reliable
so at least it doesn't convince me that they're reliable if we turn to so I've been ignoring
poor paul and acts um but if we turn to paul and acts so what she does is uses paul's genuine letters
so the undisputed letters and uses them to show that acts is reliable so she shows agreements
between acts and paul's letters and then she can say well we know this is genuine so if acts agree
with agrees with it acts must be genuine too must be reliable um but again she's showing that they
take place in the same basic timeline so she shows that acts basically knows paul's itinerary
has a basic understanding of when certain events took place and where they took place
she thinks this is because of independent information because luke was a a friend of of paul's
but again there's other ways of explaining that one is acts knows the letters and if you say well
but sometimes it shows things in a in a distinct way yeah maybe it just doesn't like the way paul
did it maybe it just doesn't like the way paul said it it says it thinks it can do it better or
thinks it should be said differently or disagrees yeah so I mean it's only on the assumption that
they have to agree on every point that then those distinct details become an argument for
independence if you don't have that assumption that they have to agree on every point you can say
I admire paul I want to tell you about paul but I don't think everything that came out of his mouth
was absolutely correct then okay he knows the timeline of paul's life maybe he knows people
who knew paul maybe he knows you know that kind of information is easy to come by what it doesn't
prove is that the miracles and visions and things that are associated with paul necessarily took
place so knowing if i'm going to have a certain story take place it should be in this place at
this time doesn't say that my story is actually true um then she's so she uses the genuine letters
to prove ax is reliable and now we're get to a situation where we're sort of stacking hypothesis
on top of a hypothesis because it's already hypothetical that the the genuine letters prove
ax is reliable now we're going to use the conclusion of that argument that ax is reliable
to prove the disputed letters are reliable right right right so we're we're stacking things so this
is kind of bad um and again she's just proving that like okay basically knows when to put paul
where like these people whoever wrote the letters fit with ax on his placement and the timeline
um there's also a bit of a tautological argument here because there's not a lot of
undesigned coincidences in this last section but she explains that away so she says well
ax ends after he just gets to roam but the letters were written after he got the roam
the disputed letters were written in roam so because the timeline doesn't overlap you wouldn't
expect a lot of of undesigned coincidences but that puts you in this awkward position where it's
like okay if there are a lot that means that it's reliable and if there are not a lot that also means
that it's reliable so that's kind of questionable to sort of explain away the fact that there's not a
lot of them um but there are some and if you're taking the position that if you find any it's
reliable then that's enough so she wants a maximalist conclusion that's where she wants to get
that what she demonstrates even if we grant her everything is only a minimal reliability
so they basically know where people were at what time they basically know the geography
they basically know how people behaved because there's a whole section about like
lining the gospels up with what we know historically about the context
um so they they can put some verisimilitude in that that's really kind of basic if you're talking
about four biographies and a short history like you expect them to have that kind of understanding
so i'm not i think even if we step back and say well if you proved everything in the ax section
i don't know how far that takes you other than he he's not a complete imbecile
so that's where i ended up that's where i ended up on on this book is i don't think the method is
i think it's founded on very shaky grounds and even if i ignore all those shaky grounds i
don't know that i'm terribly impressed by what it it proves or at least what it seeks to prove
because it wants to prove the miraculous by extrapolation so if it's reliable about these
incidental details it must be reliable that jesus is actually the son of god and i think that's a
big leap i'm with you um sorry about uh having to turn my camera off for seconds there um so
there's a couple things that you did which i liked that you're very careful about as we were
dissecting the contents and explaining her positions and that was granting her these ideas
granting you're granting a lot by the way in all these hypothetical like get in the sandbox let's
assume she's correct let's assume and she clearly kind of avoids contradictions but when in some of
those quote she showed she like wants to say things like well you know they're kind of explained
away easily a lot of them as far as your research goes as far as reading this book let's take all
that granted back okay we granted it hypothetically during the presentation but i want to take all
that back and not grant her i want to take a critical approach here i've heard a video before
in criticizing mic polygetics i like to call it um because many of the people have a mic
in their last name uh so it's like mic polygists mic polygetics etc there was a video done by
camille greger which by the way you you actually know they've emailed you about doing some publications
and they pointed out she avoids making the undesigned coincidence connections when john
talks about jesus cleansing the temple he does so twice if you take this approach because he it's
a completely different time in which he's cleansing the temple um and why aren't you connecting these
two dots what what what is this is a huge like chronological issue they'll just say yeah he
cleansed it twice but in one of the gospels it seems he was killed for this or at least it leads
in that direction the reason jesus i mean if you're gonna keep doing it jesus like we're gonna
have to take you out yeah yeah that was striking and we're not giving you three but after he told you
so historically is john correct that jesus cleansed the temple twice if you grant this overlapping
they're actually complimenting each other oh there's two angels here and there's one here
that means there was really two angels even if they only mentioned one well there were two
cleansing of the temples because they happened at two different times did this actually happen
historically these are issues that i would say discrepancies or problems that you would have if
you're trying to do this reportage supposed model are there any other ones that stick out or you
might want to elaborate on that one yeah i mean with the the cleansing of the temple like this is
a really old problem that's been rejected for hundreds of years that so it's it's been a method
of just saying well every time there's a the the inconsistencies become insurmountable so if they
get too big we'll just say it happened multiple times you you broke out if they get what if the if
the inconsistencies get too big we'll just say it happened multiple times so if there's minor
inconsistencies we can just say this is their style of talking or this is what you expect from my
witness testimony but if like with john like so like i said mark is very rarely temporarily
located but the cleansing of the temple is specifically very close to his death so we
know when that happened in mark and we john is often temporarily located so we know when
the cleansing happened in john and it doesn't match so there are other cases where you know
was he anointed twice because luke's is so different from everybody else's
was he did peter confess that jesus was the messiah twice because john's version is so
different from the synoptic versions um so you start multiplying all these things and
um i i did a study a while back on on the humanist reception of mary magdalene and one of the
the people in that debate brought this up that he's like you know if you start saying every time
two stories are a little different jesus is just going to be the most repetitious life in in the
world there's a guy named clicktove and he was like you just everything's going to get tumbled up
because it's a matter of what your tolerance is unless they have the exact same text then you're
going to be like well these are slightly different so it must have happened multiple times um with
the cleansing of the temple here's something i would point out about the cleansing of the temple
in all four gospels the first time that jesus enters jerusalem has a public figure
he enters the temple and and throws a hissy fit so that they agree on what they don't agree on
is when did jesus enter jerusalem as a public figure so there are some john scholars like
ray brown who would say well john's got the more realistic case here like if we're the more plausible
version is john's right right that he's probably going back and forth to jerusalem and this probably
happened a lot earlier um whereas most synoptic scholars would say anything in john is bs so like
anytime john disagrees with the synoptics that's crap so it must have been when mark said but
mark also has a sort of artificial structure to his gospel so it's half the gospel in galley
and performing miracles and saying he's a teacher but not really giving his teaching
and then half the gospel he's heading toward his death so if we know that mark has a very
artificial structure and it's because of that very artificial structure that john doesn't enter
Jerusalem until shortly before his death that raises suspicion for me about mark's version
and then john just happens to have him enter Jerusalem earlier so and that might be more
realistic um but in in this term in these terms yeah she doesn't look at like john cites different
scripture in the the temple scene um it does they both happen just before Passover so there's his
other just before Passover uh thing so it happens multiple times in john like this is it's a recurring
motif so the fact that they don't think those are overcomable is a reason to sort of set them to
the side um i would be interested to see then creating a timeline of Jesus's life and seeing
how often things need to repeat so do we agree that you know like one says it was a gathering
to the demoniac one says it's a garrison demoniac are those different things are that like do we
consider that a different enough thing that we need to have Jesus going into across the lake in
and in exercising a demoniac multiple times in order to accommodate these different location
names or these different ethnicities that they apply to um so those are all over the place and
it's and it's relying on the assumption that they should agree and that they're telling the same
story right because it's a reported the assumption is this is a reported eyewitness thing
and even if you find the contradictions i've heard it said well eyewitnesses don't agree on
everything so they're going to get some details maybe off therefore this only proves my case
even more than it's eyewitness testimony Derek and so i feel like so another tautological argument
they agree it's reliable witness if they disagree sorry it's a reliable witness
you broke up tautological argument oh so it's again a tautological yeah tautological argument
if they agree it's reliable witness and if they disagree it's a reliable witness well okay so
then it's just reliable witness why even depend on the agreements or disagreements right you're just
going to say it's reliable anyway yes that's i'm i'm seeing that um contradictions are a big problem
i didn't know if any really stuck out to you that made you go i really feel like this nails the whole
thing shut but i imagine there's other layers to this and how we might approach this and that is
they're not so i'm taking the outside view we're not doing fan fiction anymore i'm hoping we can
criticize here just the whole the whole picture and that is factoring in literary approaches
and understanding literature as a significant proponent to this idea of what are the gospels
what are they doing is this um legend is this is there other examples of literature we can look to
correlating from that and being able to say hey this looks like that this looks like it's doing
something this other literature is doing so we should factor this into our model to understand
what the gospels are doing that is if you want to argue they're theological uh i would say that the
fine line between literary and theology is kind of there it's a blurred thing because they're pulling
back from scripture they're modeling jesus after elijah jona elicia moses in modeling him it looks
like the author is doing this not that this is a report of what's actually happening i would go
further even to say especially since this is a judeo christian or even jew and gentile movement
they're going to do the same with heroes from the roman and greek world the caesars giving him
titles for the you know the whole nine so what do you see that that would do if you start bringing
in some of this to the conversation well first i mean one thing i just want to notice you bring up a
a common argument and you see this a lot even in biblical studies especially when they're trying
to argue for reliability the so dumb they're reliable argument which is like if you start
bringing up literature they will some people will then dismiss it because they're looking at
the literature and saying well that's sort of above the the disciples pay grade all they're doing
they have no creativity they have no mental input to this whatsoever all they're doing is reporting
and there's just so much evidence against that there's so many literary
elements even to mark so mark was the like poster child of this mark was like oh he just
that's why none of his anecdotes fit together because he's just like this happened and this
happened and this happened right and then yeah then you start to notice these motifs like the
hidden messiah and you start to notice this like artificial plot structure like galley to
Jerusalem and is like oh no he's doing stuff you may like it or not but he's doing stuff
um i think like so craig keener writes the forward for macros book
and keener is a brilliant guy like absolutely brilliant i think if i ever had a conversation
with him i've never met him in person but if i ever had a conversation with him i i imagine
i would just start seeing his head expand like the leader from the hulk like just such a huge
knowledge of greco- roman literature of of early jewish literature so very smart guy but
he he has i've never seen him take a position that wouldn't get him a pat on the back in this church
i don't know if that's just because that's where the the evidence led him and that's just how it
happened or his his personal adherence to a church is is sort of keeping reins on right
but he wrote a book called christo biography which i review um and and i think that's why
they sort of chose him to be the forward so it's making the argument that that the gospels are
reliable and he does this based on comparisons to other contemporary biography so he makes a
strong argument that they're biographies and they're a certain type of biography and then he
makes the additional argument that that means to the audience they would expect a reliable narrative
that he doesn't go so far as to say therefore they are reliable just that the audience expects a
reliable narrative because of the genre they're in and yet the one thing i took him the task for
is he sort of dismisses john as historical jesus people are likely want to do he sort of puts
john to the side because he's like well john's just sort of doing theological stuff and so john
disagrees with the other ones because he's just doing theological stuff and and he's being creative
it's like but he fits all the criteria you just said for matthew mark and lou he's written within
living memory of the historical figure he he has all these other characteristics that that you use
to argue that people would expect a reliable story so if he's just being creative then one of your
four examples is giving you something unreliable and yet hitting all of these genre markers so i
think he's got the right idea in that if we start looking at biographies what are they doing and what
he differentiates he says well within living memory is one type of biography because he wants to get
rid of the biographies of like alexander the great and alexander the great's biographies are having
perform miracles and having a miraculous birth alexander the great's birth looks very much like
jesus's birth in matthew and lou so i want to put those to the side because i don't believe that and
i don't want i don't want to deal with miracles and stuff like this so i want to look at lives of
otho because i have multiple lives of otho and i can do a comparison um i think if we genuinely
though go down that track i think he's sort of on the right track in that we want to look at first
of all biographies because that's what the gospels are they fit all the genre conventions of a
biography then we want to expand and say well they're written at a certain sort of educational
level a certain popular level and the closest thing there then is the novels not to say that
they're novels but they're written at that level and what can we learn from the novels what kind of
similar scenes show up in the novels that are contemporary with the gospels they're written
in coin a they're written they have very similar structures to them um similar use of dialogue
similar use of anecdotes like structurally very similar but you know the assumption is they're
fictional okay but how how are they destructuring their plots how are they characterizing people
how are they using miracles things like shipwrecks and you know the shipwreck is a standard part of
the novels and then you read the end of axe and it's like yeah i've seen that before um so
how are they using how might they have been influenced by this um you know the the thing
i would think of is like star wars if you look at star wars yeah it's a sci-fi movie but it's clearly
based on kurosawa and it's clearly so it's clearly based on these like sort of japanese movies
that are set in a very different time period and stuff but it's taking inspiration from them so
can we do the same with the gospels and the novels can we do the same with the gospels and
very popular epics like Homer or Virgil like you've mentioned where what would be in the
cultural milieu right and that's what that's what i try to do and what i do and so when i did like
my book on direct internal quotations like i combed through and tried to find where do you see a lot
of these things well one place you see a lot of them is in forensic speeches so you can go to you
know uh socrates apology and you find a lot of direct internal quotations because it's testimony
and you want to interrogate somebody else's testimony you quote them say why did you say this
and then that opened a lot of even though john's not forensic literature john's not a forensic
speech but it opened up a lot of venues to say well he's doing something very similar with his
internal quotation so is he familiar with this kind of forensic rhetoric and how to use
somebody else's speech against them so that's that's where i would go is is look at what they're
doing and and be open to the possibility that somebody like matthew if you read matthew's
birth story it looks like a standard greco roman birth story right it's got all the elements
if you read hera heracles we're back heracles if you read his birth narratives what happens well the
baby has a divine father and a human mother and there's a threat of divorce because the human
father is not happy that his wife's been knocked up and it's not his and then the baby's born and
it's immediately put in danger and it has to be saved by a miracle and i mean there's just element
after element after element he he's a fantastic learner so that he he does uh he learns the
virtues as a as a prodigy as a young man just like he goes jesus goes to the temple at 12 in luke
and so you then have to make a choice is this relevant do i think this is relevant i don't
think somebody like maguru is going to make that choice i don't think she's going to say yes i think
this is relevant but every one of us has to make that choice and say this is very similar i can see
a lot of of similarities here should i be reading this to understand the gospels better and let me
test that hypothesis if i tested against this do do i seem like i come to a deeper understanding
of the gospels i love this everything you're saying makes perfect sense to me we would do it
with any other piece of literature and like we always get the accusation for people who are
critical of this text or this material is that well you don't treat the other material that way
yes we do yes i do and that's why i fall down with the conclusion i do like i'm like yeah
heracles is legend most likely i'd even go as far if we wanted to say legend's built around a historical
person i i tend to think he probably never existed and if he did it's so archaic he was probably
some hero in battle and they turned him into something and we've lost him completely to
history and he is only known through myth or legend um and i'm looking at jesus i see those
characteristics so at the end of the day if i took the myth mythologist uh view the undesigned
coincidence view the reportage model and then i saw all the questions all the discrepancies
all the other issues and i factored them in on the table and at the end of the day we said
you know what let's not be dogmatic one way or the other let's say there could be some blend of
memory um potential word of mouth this spread to this person that got there and that's how
they know this guy's from this region or whatever let's give some but you know i would imagine if
they're reasonable which i i don't think it's going to happen there's some given pool here
and they might go well i'm going to go so far as to say that i think that there's some legend in
here are we going to we're going to do this birth narrative in matthew fairly i was just reading
yesterday somewhat contemporaneous sutonius lives of the caesars in augustus birth like
he not only has poor tense not only is he somebody divine who's going to come as kind of a king
here's jesus as a king you know rank raglan kind of hero model here but then goes even a step further
to say that the senate that year said no children should be reared up well hold on i think i've heard
this before um so therefore because i look at all this there's a lot of people places and things
that are historically there there's mention of wars there's a huge biography about from sutonius
about augustus and all the other caesars that are mentioned therefore this guy really did
have a divine birth and we should start drawing these conclusions maybe they were the real ones
maybe we got duped maybe you know maybe these are the ones that deserved our worship i'm being
silly here but um that that machine just all be pious romans right that what you're saying though
looking at the material um they'll say biography because it fits a biography style in many ways
even though there are some scholars who would say like biography mostly and i know this isn't
universal because the categories are kind of gray in some ways is like usually cradle to grave
we have that in matthew and luke we don't have that in john we don't have that a mark
so it's in a weird way it's like somewhat modeling biography but then in other
ways you say there's novel type ideas there's literary tropes that come in and that are clearly
fictional um embellishing that character to legendize them and such this is where i'm at
and i didn't come here because i wanted it not to be true this is me being really evenly fair
across the materials and that's why i think craig keener is probably brilliant and knows so much
and i don't understand what goes on to make the persons make the conclusions they do and
that's where i get in trouble because then i start psychoanalyzing and going what is the real
motivation here it can't be strictly evidence-based if there's got to be something else going on
well there's a and then i would say this more about maghru than keener but there's a
that's why i i i talk about it as a devotional activity so any i mean there's all sorts of
devotional activities you can pray you can go to church you can do charity you can you know
there's all sorts of things you can do as a devotional activity and they're all meant to be
things that you activate behaviors you engage in that strengthen your belief
and and edify your relationship with your religion and and your inclusion in the group
and this sort of apologetic analysis of the bible does all those things it's successful
in that regard so she's engaging with her bible which from her religious perspective is exactly
what she should be doing she's strengthening other people's belief there are a lot of people
who've probably read this book done it as and you know as a church book group and then come away
with stronger belief in the reliability of the gospels which then allows them to pursue their
own beliefs in what the gospels are making claims about uh even more strongly so as a
devotional activity i have no problem with it it does all the things it's supposed to be doing
when you start trying to go into the historical realm then you can slip into certain uh bad
bad methods or bad ways of thinking um one thing that i i also took keener to task for so again
i respect the whole lot of keener but one thing i took him to task for is the sort of if it could
be it must be reasoning so that he has a whole section on memory in christo biography and he
brings up these these stories from the ancient world where people would perform these incredible
feats of memory and therefore he'd be like therefore it was possible that the the disciples
also memorized all these events and all these teachings and passed them on reliably and therefore
they did that and it's like well sure it's possible like one of them could have been a prodigy
but let's keep in mind what even the gospels portray the disciples doing the disciples are
not portrayed as being chosen for their keen intellect they're being chosen because they're
willing to follow jesus in the synoptics which he finds to be more reliable they hang out with him
for about a year and that off and on because it's explicit that they're sent away at certain points
and we're not clear how long they were sent away so it's it's sort of like saying yes there are
brilliant college students in the us absolutely brilliant college students but if i pick 12
random college students send them to school for a year off and on and then 40 years later
ask them to recall what they learned in school are am i reasonably going to expect that they're
going to give me like a whole lecture on physics and and be a hundred percent correct or even close
to a hundred percent correct like i don't expect 12 random people who went to school for a year off
and on to be that good at memorizing and remembering what they learned especially because in the gospels
we're consistently shown the disciples not believing that there's any reason to need to
memorize this right because anytime jesus is like dude i'm gonna die they're like no you're not show
and so if that's your case if that's your perspective why do you need to memorize it
like jesus is always around to be like i can say something and he'd be like that's not what is a
it's almost like uh the way we've been talking about fan fiction wants you to be in the universe
and the answer needs to be in the universe and then you start factoring in what's the author want
this understanding of them needing to memorize is the evidence like this the breaking the fourth
wall again going into the modern person who needs that memory to go back and it's not a modern thing
the the patristic fictional inventions i think of my clout my lineage goes back to peter my like
there's reason they do this to give themselves pedigree but i imagine that's that modern apologetic
kind of this needs to be trustworthy and reliable and i think it was paul tillich that said or someone
to that effect that said why is the apologist on the war path he's on he's he's on a war with himself
wanting to convince themselves that what they're believing is what they're trying to argue for
and i can relate with that as one who was an apologist that i'm trying to make sure i mean
watching ravi zacharias william ling craig these guys for all the years that i did was trying to
make sure that like what i believe is true and i'm gonna go ahead i'm trying to actually change
the world and convince others like frank turrick other people and that's what these apologists are
doing so while i get hey here's faith devotional literature to like get you in your little group
like yay we're we believe these things and it gives us encouragement to think these things are true
that's not what they're doing with it they're trying to enter the arena of scholarship with this
and argue at least among christians i don't think anyone in more of a secular environment is going
to take these these kind of arguments in this book seriously and this is what they've seen
they've seen most people are just like even you don't even you didn't even know about it till i
brought it to your attention so is there anything else pertaining to these arguments or even the
book that you'd like to make comments on none no i think we're good i think we can start taking
some questions okay i didn't figure i'd ask because it's a rabbit trail man it's it's uh there's a lot
so i i will bring you know you were you were saying like the memory back to the patristics
interestingly enough the some patristic writers at least had the spirit so the
they almost could admit that the disciples were unlikely to memorize that but they had the spirit
to remind them because you can base that on john right john has what will the pericles do he'll
remind you of what i said so they would more more likely to rely on that and say well yeah the reason
john remembers this 50 60 years later so clearly is because the pericles is reminding him right but
i don't see that argument a lot today um so that's just an interesting you know discrepancy
between those older patristic arguments and like today's arguments yeah the other a patristic
one that gets brought up by richard miller is modern apologists don't even agree with like
justin martyrs approach or others they had pagan temples in their backyards uh i'm using pagan as
i'm using pagan as a non christian non-jewish but they had these gods that we're talking about
that have similar birth narratives in the whole nine and here's justin martyrs saying look
we believe nothing different when it comes to like hercules and he lists all these demigods and
other figures from the greek and roman world castor and polux the you know various figures
and then goes of course thinks jesus is the one the true one but like it's very similar
and like we're we're in agreement on these things this is the true one though this is like the
ultimate my guy he's the one modern apologists aren't doing that and i think that's one of the
things that got me initially going hold on heracles there's so much in common with heracles
we know we put this guy in like fictional categories but we get to jesus and this really
screwed me up because i wanted to follow what the facts were and i saw some problems with the
comparison uh that i saw there's too much in common for me to go what the heck and this was
that argument i had from someone on twitter last night that said yeah well there was science fiction
about us going to the moon uh and then now the day that we have gone to the moon you're going to say
didn't happen so the argument is all this fiction for millennia as far back as predating writing
but sumerian civilization egyptian mythology with the dying agricultural and rising osiris and the
myths that they had those stories yeah they're all fiction but then you get down and by the way
that would be a slap in the face probably to many of these cultures and their particular
believers then you get down to jesus and you find elements of all this fiction
right here in the new testament this one happened well you find those things because demons told
those people those stories right i mean if we're gonna bring in justin martyr like that's why those
stories exist because i mean he is making the argument you're talking about where it's like
we're not that ridiculous you believe some of the same crazy crap too right but here's why ours is
true is demons planted these stories to undermine belief in jesus once he came because they understood
the messianic predictions now we have a version of that today where the devil put the dinosaur
bones in the rocks so we still have the same types of arguments it's just they're not
as threatened by heracles because heracles is not as big a part of our culture any right
whereas if you're going to science class and you're learning about geology and that's just a
standard ninth grade class then that's something we need to combat so we're gonna take this this
tactic out of our our bag that we used we used to use on heracles and now we'll use it on dinosaur
bones right um but yeah it's it's
you and i don't know i mean some people might be more like might have been more willing to believe
that the osiris didn't really happen i'm sure in the same way that there are christians today
many many christians who if you're like well it probably didn't happen like if you take some
element of jesus's life in the gospels and you say well i mean it probably didn't happen this is
what theologically they're doing with it they're perfectly fine with that i have conversations
with christians all the time like that where i'm just like well here's the reason like say
matthew's birth narrative it's like it's it's kind of a standard thing and you do you know you have
these elements and and he just sort of judyizes them and applies them to jesus they're like oh okay
that's cool like what's the message because that was the important thing so what's it's not
whether osiris died and and we know we saved everything but his penis or whatever it's
it's whether it's what is the truth behind that story right and and so there are many many christians
today who are perfectly comfortable approaching the specific details of jesus's life in the same way
now they may be like i definitely think he had to be the son of god i definitely think he had to be
resurrected right but everything else is sort of like what truth about him are you trying to
communicate to me and i'm okay with that so it is worth always pointing out that this sort of
historicistic fundamentalism is a a sort of distinct quality of a certain smaller group of
christians it's not universal among christianity and there are many many christians many millions
of christians who when they see this sort of nitpicking over details and and fighting over
maximalism versus minimalism and all that are minimal facts maximal facts right right they
they think it's kind of silly and and they just go about their day because they're like look i have
my faith and i understand that these were people writing these gospels and they were doing the
best they could and and if they had the you know if they they got a little indulgent in one place
that's okay as long as reading it you believe a little bit and the thing is like you read john
and that's his mission statement i wrote these things so you would believe right i didn't he
doesn't say i wrote these things so that you would have an accurate actual record of the events
so you know it's it to an extent like all these the sort of discussions is is is for a particular
type of christian i love what you said i can find meaning and value and lessons not only in the new
testament but elsewhere too and it's there's some great stories out there that convey what we would
call truths uh wisdoms proverbs things that are lessons because i think we can relate to them
and that was the question my mom had one day was like son she never asked again after this but
she said why don't you believe in jesus anymore and i knew that the kind of christianity i came
from and the kind of christian my mom is i know mom quite well i said let me tell you a story
from the greek world and i just gave her like this really interesting beginning to end story of
the odyssey as we have it of course um and odysseus's story she could relate because my dad her
husband is a retired green brain the special forces so he's a war hero he was a medic halo
and structure the whole nine like the guy credentials the whole nine um and he was kind
of like uh i've related it in a way and conveying it to her that odysseus had to go to war he had to
go to war to protect his his homeland his people and so he goes and the whole story is this love
story in a way where he can't wait to get back no matter what happens a goddess takes in calypso
island that you know the various stories and journeys and trials and all this he comes back
the lessons about the delayed recognition and hiding his identity all this stuff that i see
mark doing in my opinion and i'm going through the story my mom starts crying she just starts crying
because it's deep it's relatable it's passionate it's got lesson in it it's got love in it it's
got all this stuff but she just goes what what what happens and i'm like finally he makes it home
he gets to his wife he reveals who he is he he this long journey and he makes it he reveals to
his dad laertes he reveals to telemica see and so i tell her the whole story my mom's like that was
deep and i was like that was practically like the religion in literature in a way for the greeks
for so long it was their holy canonical text of their stories and this was sacred to them
i said well the gospels are like that to christians and so do you understand why that matters to them
i said so i'm i'm backing up now i'm not in this little bubble i'm backing up saying i'll find
value where i find value i don't want your dogma i don't want your your bubble i want to be able
to be this kind of person who can explore kind of traverse all the worlds like hermes i want to
be able to go wherever and experience it i don't want the dogma of a atheist group thinking either
i don't want to go we must believe you know no you're gonna see some of that maybe in me because
i'm i'm combating nonsense a lot but you get what i'm trying to do and that's that's been my my goal
and trying to get better at it over time but yeah anyway so super chats camille greger
thank you for the super chat at the beginning dr trip that paper i sent you to read is going to
be published in the next issue of the journal for the study of the historical jesus thanks again for
your help well congratulations looking for that's a that's a good journal so congratulations i'm glad
you're i'm glad you're working on it thank you camille for the super chat appreciate the support
the love im nag with a super sticker thank you so much i didn't see a comment maybe i need to scroll
up in this long chat because we've been hanging out for almost three hours um but we do this this
is how it is you are methodical you and steve mason are like the very careful i'm going to go
through a nitpick and by the way i just figured i'd tell you i had to block him from the chat
because he's trolling but one of the apologists came in here and said this is the worst presentation
i've ever seen uh on the undesigned coincidence is i'm just not i can't i try to be friends i try to
be cool like it's it's become trollish well there's an accomplishment i've produced the worst one
that's good on you um in that i didn't see you did put a i don't know if this is to mean an alarm
something you gave a thumbs up he's like roll it along man right get to the point just get it
the laughing philosopher thank you for the super chat the literary dependence and methodological
reworking is so obvious looking for independence and reliability in minutia smacks of not seeing
the wood for the trees so so he throws her her accusation back at her right yeah so i mean there
is you know there's a lot of nitpicking over details but you know as a as somebody who does
what i do nitpicking over details is perfectly okay with me um but yeah just the in looking for
independence and reliability i mean the append independence is simply assumed whenever convenient
and and then looking for reliability um you know i again there are better ways to go about it
there are are more historically reliable ways to go about it um so i i have no i i have no
problem with somebody saying here's the reasons i find it reliable and i'm gonna make an argument
for it just like i have no problem with somebody saying here are the reasons i think this is
unreliable that this is based on literary issues or theological issues or whatever
or visionary issues i mean there's you know we we don't talk about this a lot but there's
the issue that jesus could prophetically speak through people in that early age like we have
evidence of people believing that so the teachings that you see in the gospels are did he say that
when he was a person in galilee or was that revealed by the risen christ
at a later time and we've just retroactively put it into his historical life but you know there so
there might be any number of arguments against the historical reliability of something um and i
think you know we should be engaging in in both of those to for for the same reason i said with
you know a trial like you want the i don't want to trial without a prosecutor right and i don't
want to trial without a defense attorney like either way if you're missing either one of those
you're going to miss some truth so you want people making their cases but i just want it done on a
like historically reliable basis that and that's such an interesting point you bring up of like
anachronistically putting back into jesus mouth especially when you have them say the spirit will
lead you or teach you at that time paul you know has risen christ's teachings he's getting and i i
don't think we open the door potentially of exploring that phenomena especially when you
have visionary type literature like enok and jews were in this but it wasn't just jews the
symbols i mean you're dealing with greek ideas of visionary ecstatic experiences going into trances
glacialia speaking in tongues like all of this stuff starts to factor into this
potentially charismatic as we would call it today uh phenomena in early movements where they're having
gods and demons and angels and all the stuff floating in their brains and and you know i'm
a john guy so the gods and and things who who often pop in and and introduce themselves with
these i am statements and so there's been more than a few john scholars who will point to john's
i am statement statements jesus's i am statements and john as a similar phenomenon that and then
he talks about how jesus will send an advocate to to speak for him at a later day well how is he
going to speak he's going to speak through prophets and then it becomes and what is he going to do
he's going to remind you of what what i said so this is in part why i point out in my book
on direct internal quotations that you have these quotations they're often incorrect that doesn't
mean they're wrong or considered wrong by john so you have jesus quoting himself but misquoting
himself he he doesn't quote himself exactly he changes it to the current situation and so
then you introduce this possibility that you have so many quotations because they are a prophetic
community who is receiving messages from jesus and therefore can introduce modifications and
it's justified because well he said that but in this context this would be more appropriate and jesus
told me that right you know i got i got stumbled just one point and then let's move to the next one
is that i i got tripped up when i was reading second peter and the part where it talks about
there'll be mockers and scoffers that the prophets spoke in past days and i always thought that meant
prophets you know immediately elisha comes to mind or isaiah and i'm like no actually in the
early christian communities even into the second century they viewed these early voices as prophets
and paul thought himself a prophet so i'm going oh i'm thinking it's just talking about these old
lxx heber bible prophets um no no the early christian community they prophesied and even
talks about will prophesy until that which is perfect comes in paul's letter so they're
prophesying speaking tongues the whole night so it was just i had heard it but never really
thought about that didn't think that through and how that fits into what you just said so
max maximus thank you for the super chat i only subscribe to three youtube channels
this is one of them massive cheers to the growth of this brilliant channel
my friend thank you that means it's a good channel i'm probably third from the top but
i'm i'll take it i'll take it i'm not gonna argue uh maxis thanks doc pluromonot thank you for that
big super chat my friend as the legio tin is it constructed a you want you might want to read this
and jupiter venus was now venerated can we dismiss the influence
pagan jerusalem had on foreign gospel writers and their ability to accurately tell the jewish past
so so we seem to be pointing to the late date of the gospels and then that's a disputed issue of
how late are the gospels and how late is the the so jerusalem's destroyed
and we we rebuild it under pagan influence um i mean that really comes to fruition after
the bar cockpot revolt in in the second century um but we do we do have uh some pagan worship
introduced can we dismiss the influence pagan jerusalem had on foreign gospel writers and um
so i don't think we can dismiss it there is a question of were they in jerusalem at those times
or were they dispersed i think most historical reconstructions of where the gospel writers were
would not place them in or near jerusalem maybe matthew but even matthew not in jerusalem there's
very few that would place them in jerusalem they would put them up in an anteach in syria or um
or somewhere even farther up i guess as a rhea maritima is pretty close but the
but they are dispersed other places um so i don't know how much what's going on in jerusalem is
is going to be relevant but anteach is not a primarily jewish city
emphasis if that's where you think john wrote is not a primarily jewish city philip high if
that's where you think luke wrote rome if that's where you think mark wrote like these are they're
living in a sort of diaspora situation even if you take the sort of maturity view on this
and they're exposed to these myths um they're exposed to these festivals they're exposed to
these other beliefs like it's just in their milieu so when you have christian communities
that's all swell that they get together on sunday but the rest of the week they are
working for families that aren't christian they are working or they have workers in their house
that aren't christian there there is criticism of christians who participate in in festivals to
other gods and because there's criticism the tendency is well then you know that was normative
christians didn't do that but then who are you criticizing evidently there were christians
who were still sacrificing to other gods and participating in these other festivals that
means they need to learn a liturgy often they would need to learn songs they would need to learn
stories in order to be able to perform what they need to do in the context of that festival so
yeah the we they're very familiar with these other these other cultures now could they
accurately retell the jewish past they could um to an extent and so there's you know are they
jewish if john grew up in drusselm if the author of john grew up in drusselm lived there until you
know say 40 and then left well he still spent like 20 30 years there i could tell stories about
detroit in the 90s i haven't lived in detroit in decades but but i could do it um and but there are
going to be things i get wrong and even now i have internet to check and i would still get some stuff
from that one question on that and i don't want to derail you but um i have not done a deep
investigative like at some point i imagine i'll need to but as far as the scholarship goes do
they get things wrong you know they always like to point out they got this person this place this
thing correct uh inaccurate do the gospels get ideas about people places and things wrong i know
they get the census and luke uh there's there's things like that but i'm saying can you think of
other things that are clear geographic issues uh regional problems things like that that scholars
have written on that you're convinced of yeah i mean you is especially so i i think connecting
with this question so you look at luke and luke has kind of a few of them so he doesn't quite get what
happens at circumcision right um when he narrates jesus's circumcision so like the way he presents
the cleansing isn't quite on with what we know about that from other sources um so there's there's
little things that he he gets a little off um mark miscites scripture and credits it to the wrong
author so he'll be like oh isaias said those no it didn't um so there are elements like that so
these are directly relevant to their knowledge of of judyism and the judyism practiced in say the
30s and yet they get these elements wrong um so in some case in most cases it's difficult to say
we just wouldn't be in a position to say whether they're right or wrong right um but it's it's
possible they get things wrong because they don't know any better and it's also possible
they get things wrong because they're just being creative and they're just like well this would
make more sense they might have another agenda to so mark messes up on his roofs um so when he
they lower a guy through the roof in mark and and the way he describes it um looks like an
italian house and because that's the kind of house he knows and then matthew and mark change it
because they know more what the architecture in the middle east looks like so they make it more
appropriate so they just tweak his his vocabulary a little um but you know so then it's is that important
is that important that he's like picturing a tiled Mediterranean house and that's not what
they had in in galley if you need to be reported of what actually happened I guess you know like
so I mean what I think McGrew would say is like well if I said he blew through the stoplight
and you know I'm I'm telling you what somebody did and he blew through the stoplight
and really at that intersection there's a stop sign so he did endanger people he did blow
through something he shouldn't have blown through I got it right that there was a a traffic violation
but I slightly misremembered what the actual traffic regulations were at that intersection
then I could still be considered reliable thank you last one here we had pop in last minute
michael apple says I think the undesigned coincidence is found in between the balkansky
bazookov mishkin raskolnikov and karamosov families indicates a deeper historical truth no
way this is fake the fiction great discussion I don't even know these names so like the the
brother's karamosov is is one of the the great russian novels and so if you have these these you
know coincidences between these russian families then you yeah so I mean this is the it speaks to
the whole issue the fundamental issue with her method at least as it's presented in this book
so I don't know if she revises it in other books or anything but at least as it's presented in this
book she is making the claim that you will not find these in fictional or fictionalized literature
or in legendary literature so we keep finding them in the fiction what we consider fictional
or fictionalized literature now these novels are grounded historically right reflect the historical
realities but that doesn't mean any karamosovs existed um if they're a complete fabrication so
it's dostoevsky I was not a blanket I kept them being tool story but it's not tool story um so the
that if that's the basis of what you're doing is the the assumption that if you find undesigned
coincidences it therefore means that this is reliable because you will not find them in any other
type of literature it's just easily falsifiable we someone stuck in another 20 I can't turn down
money but they said I often think if Jesus was real there are many things in the Torah he would be
forced to fix flat earth Egypt Canaan slavery in your perspective what is the biggest tell rooted
in the Hebrew Bible that he wasn't Yahweh's kid well he I mean arguably he does fix stuff
um so right now I'm preparing a video on biblical marriage and in between the Old Testament or the
Hebrew Bible and the New Testament you see a shift toward monogamy and historically what happened
is the Greeks came in the Greeks took over and Greeks only wrote only legally recognized one
marriage at a time now Jesus officially recognizes only one marriage at a time so arguably he fixed
that bit of the mosaic law because the mosaic law recognizes that you can have multiple wives at the
same time um so then you get into this issue of like did he
what you got there could tell birth alone I don't know if you read it it literally goes into
exactly how the Greeks and Romans influenced pre pre-Christian Rome of course influenced Jews
and stuff but also Greeks and stuff but it's really cool oh yeah I mean you you so the I mean
it's it's it's incontestable that monogamy doesn't come from Yahweh it comes from say Zeus and Hera
like it comes from the Greek West and and by that time it's the norm and so in Enoch
monogamy is criticized it's vilified but by the time you get to the New Testament it's standard
so you have these you know you have this gap in in Jesus corrects that or you know in some of
his teachings as presented in the gospels um if you're not allowed to remarry after a divorce
or it's considered adultery it's probably bad that if you marry a second woman while you're
still married to the first one um but then it's like does Jesus disagree with these things
so Greeks would have known educated people would have known the earth wasn't flat but
does does Jesus disagree um I'm not sure what Egypt and Canaan uh mean in this context but
like slavery yeah he doesn't free slaves and that's uh that's a rough thing he doesn't free
slaves he doesn't speak against slavery um arguably and and now we can get into all
sorts of American arguments from the 1800s yeah arguably him behaving like a slave when he does
the foot washing is a way of getting you to sympathize with slaves enslaved people um so there
are these sort of subtle undermining of slavery but never anything explicit and it may just be that
we disagree with Jesus on that that like if I'm against slavery and Jesus isn't then that would
just be a point where we disagree yeah and I get the problem if you think this just it's like the
same issue with uh fundamentalist in Islam that are like hell been on living that seventh century
life and following and modeling everything after what Muhammad said he's the best example we should
follow and do what he did and you know all that it's like well people model themselves after Jesus
if Jesus was this way I should be this way if Jesus thought this I should think that and it's like
uh I appreciate cherry pickers I'll put it that way well you know and you have examples where people
are like oh I'm living you know a biblical life um and and then you say well you know are you are you
refusing did you cancel all your credit cards did you get rid of your mortgage because there's 17
different texts in the bible that forbid charging interest on a loan so if you have a savings account
you are violating that and these people are qualified as like just like the worst of the worst
anybody would charge interest on a loan is like you know Jeremiah has something I think it's Jeremiah
where he he's like his life is going horrible he's probably buried up to his neck and poop and
and he's like you know what did I do did I kill someone did I charge interest on a loan I don't
deserve this and and you know you're just you everybody cherry picks that's yeah that's it
nobody's washing feet exactly constellation biggest it says 1914 was a coincidence and
fell twice so uh Jehovah's Witness background but thank you uh Dr Tripp for all your time thank you
for all the super chats everybody I hope you learned a thing or two and got to take a deep dive we
literally tried to immerse ourselves by granting much of the material there at the end of the day
might be interesting they might be she might be right about certain things going back to a historical
memory at best um I'd say at best you know that there could be a memory here but just the whole
overall thing I think failed uh in terms of it being the best explanation I mean McClatchy
disagrees but right this opinion matters to four people on planet earth but you know it is what it
is uh there's my jab back I had to jab back but I can't I'm not going to go into the personalities
but like some people are obnoxious and just keeping it real with you so um I really appreciate you
Dr Tripp if we can do something here again in the future I am always open to this because you cover
and have dissected Bacchum stuff and really looked into a lot of this detail
argumentation that comes from some of these scholars and you walk out very balanced you're
very fair I appreciate that uh you know I'm more direct and like hey yeah you know but
we can learn a thing or two from you so please come back all right
appreciate that everybody hit the like button show us some love like I said I gotta refresh
your YouTube here we're gonna see remember at the beginning of this I said if we don't get 500
subscribers um for his YouTube channel I'm gonna have to tell you I love you but eternal conscious
torment literally like I'm gonna just have to go ahead and pull the plug and and it's gonna be agonizing
if you've read Dante it's worse than that so you get let's let's not let's not end up there let's
get to 500 subscribers right now putting this in the chat because I really don't want to see people
go there you know I mean I created the place but just hear me out just give me a chance to explain
I did it because I love you okay I love you and um here it is subscribe right now I'm gonna count
10 we're gonna do an apocalyptic count down from 10 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 here we go
we're gonna find who wants to go to you don't want to go there hit it now see what happens
oh my god tell me that's not true hey it's an improvement for me man oh my gosh
we're all going to hell dude me and my me and my three buddies on YouTube
this can't be right but yeah I mean don't need to subscribe but check out uh I'm I'm
rather proud of uh of the series I did on gender um it's breaking down a public lecture I did here
in Rockford um I did a few on on abortion as that was all becoming a big issue um so you know
what I focus on in in my videos is is how people read the choices they need to make in order to get
to the readings that they have so if you want to make an argument that the bible condemns gay people
fine but these are the choices you have to make in order to get there so that's what I focus on
well I hope people will subscribe I'm shocked I am I am shocked but it'll happen over the next day
while this video is being viewed I'm not I'm not happy right now but you know I I added a little
fine print to this within 24 hours see I didn't tell you that and so we have time but we only have
24 hours hallelujah uh go check out the books if you can afford them on Amazon and you really
want to scholarly work because this is going to be scholarly I'm sure imagine you get down into
some greek and stuff as well yeah Dr Tripp thank you again um let's close out here final words from
you any encouragement anything uh you know I I think if if anybody's here that uh is is attracted
to to this sort of apologetic argument you know I I I hope that you didn't feel I was attacking you
I hope you don't feel that uh you know I was accusing her of being deceptive or anything
like that um I think we have different aims right and I think she has a goal and that goal guides
what she wants to get out of the biblical texts and I simply ask different questions and and have
different goals and different uh information and ideas that I want to get to through the biblical
text so um I think it's great that people engage with the bible and uh if you're willing to listen
to a guy like me then uh you're open minded enough that uh you know I think you're you're on the right
track I think so too thank you so much ladies and gentlemen never forget we are myth vision
son do you want to know what the truth is after this there's no turning back you take the blue pill
and you wake up in your bed and believe whatever you want to you take the red pill and you stay in
wonderland and I show you just how deep the rabbit hole goes remember all I'm offering is the truth
nothing more
so
You
