Help Midsvision keep bringing you material by becoming a Patreon member, as well as Paypal.
Like, share, subscribe, and comment.
Weeeee!
Aww!
Midsvision.
Welcome back ladies and gentlemen.
Your host and host, Dr. Luther G. Williams.
My brother.
How are you?
Hey, doing fine sir.
It's great to be back.
And you have been doing a stellar job with the show.
Both in terms of content, the look of it, the feel of it.
Audience response has been great.
A number of patrons have been up and you're doing a fine job.
I really miss it.
And I'm glad I can be with you again.
Luther, you helped set the groundwork to Midsvision podcast.
You know, I'm going to tell you what, dude.
Nobody has that spunk that you do when it comes to this.
You got a PhD in mass communication.
You have, like, almost the age I am experiencing researching the Bible and really delving into
esoterics, really looking behind the scenes.
You're like, when everybody saw David Blaine floating from his magic tricks, you were watching
and saying, yeah, I know this trick.
I know all about this trick.
And I'm the guy who's new on the block and you're the master at old tricks.
So with that being said, you have an upcoming book that you've been working on.
We had a long time ago, prior to this pandemic that has come on the scene, you were working
on your book and still working on it because you keep finding new things.
If you would, what's the title?
What's the general context of that?
And I suspect we're going to get into some of this stuff today.
Yeah, we will, Derek, but thanks.
The working title of it is the esoteric dimension, restoring the lost roots of early Christianity.
You know, what I love about this research is that for me, the puddles in the parking lot are coming together.
I mean, it is exciting because I feel that we have all the information that we need for a picture
of decent resolution of early Christianity, but we got to pay attention to the expansion
and the contraction cycles of knowledge.
I'll talk a little bit about that.
You know, you expand knowledge all the time on the show and there comes a time, at least for me,
when I had to say, okay, in the words of Admiral Michael Rogers, former NSA head,
what part of we have at all, don't you understand?
You know, that's what, and so I said, okay, all right, now's the time just to contract it,
to make sense of it, and to craft it into the story that I see it shaping up into.
And so I'm doing that at the same time that you're doing much of that and expanding.
So it's very exciting.
And as you probably know, I've been taking kind of a microscope to the first century and drawing from the extremities as needed.
If I need to go forward in time, I'll do that and refract it back on the first century.
If I need to go back in time, I'll do that.
But really focusing on that time period and looking for the best explanatory framework possible.
So the book has a lot to offer.
I feel the viewers, and if they're unfamiliar with the esoteric dimension, I think it'll be a good introduction to that kind of study.
Yeah, that's definitely an expertise.
We used to spend hours on the phone, hours, and talk about so many things.
And I learned so much and still do.
Every time we talk, I'm like, hold on.
It's like reading a book when you're half awake.
Can you repeat that last paragraph?
Like, I have to hear that again.
How did you explain that?
And you just have a way with words, Luther, and I really do appreciate that.
So Dr. Luther G. Williams, he helped me launch this program.
In fact, helped me come up with a name.
We were the water boys, and we actually branched out and said, you know, be like water is our philosophy, but is it our vision?
And so we decided myth vision because mythology, baby, you know, that is a whole nother breed.
That's a whole nother thing.
And we wanted it in context.
You know, the water boys is very vague.
Like, how does that have anything to do with biblical stuff or history or anything?
You know, that's just a basic title, and it could have worked.
But myth vision podcast was a dream between me and Luther, and we continue to grow this.
I continue to keep it going.
I'm carrying the torch on.
He may one day come and join me and co-host with me and I'll be his co-host.
He'll be co-host.
We're equal.
It's not like I'm above him or he's above me.
And with that being said, Luther, let's delve into this first century thing you're talking about.
I don't want to give away too many nuggets because I know, I know how you are.
You're like, don't tell anyone.
I'm watching this.
So don't tell anyone.
So I'm going to ask that you only give the information that you feel comfortable with giving because most of it needs to be read in the book and the sources you're going to list.
All that's going to be there.
So.
Right.
Well, I'm going to talk about some things that the viewers may be somewhat familiar with, but again, focusing on the first century.
I think Joseph at will and James valued and Warren Fay are good friends.
Warren Fay and Valiant Valiant and Fay did creating Christ at will's landmark volume of Caesar's Messiah did a good view of framing the role of the Flavians of Despasian Titus and Domitian in the development of early Christianity.
But what I'm focusing on, which is a little bit different is the role of Emperor Claudius.
The Flavians were involved.
But the, the formation of Rome's involvement in Christianity, I believe, was under the administration of Claudius and we have some evidences of that.
And I wanted to talk about, I thought it might be an interesting discussion if we talk about the Nazareth inscription, which scholars have ascribed to Claudius.
We'll, we'll get into this particular inscription, which consists of a white marble tablet.
It's about two feet by 15 inches.
And it's written in Huncio Greek, which is all capital letters.
And it describes an edict by a ruler saying that it is a capital offense to remove a dead body from a tomb.
It's very interesting.
And so many of the Christian apologists think that this was written in response to Jesus' resurrection.
But there are some other explanations that are possible that have brought forward.
I have some of my own other scholars have come up with theirs and I thought we might talk about that to frame the first part of the discussion.
So, so the Nazareth inscription, which your, your listeners, our listeners may or may not be familiar with.
But what it does is trace this, this story that we find in Matthew chapter 28, and it puts some flesh on it in terms of the Roman government of the time.
Now, in Matthew 28, we find this version of it, and it's just a few verses.
And I kind of have this ready. I thought I might share this with the viewers.
This is Matthew the 28th chapter and verses 11 through 15.
Okay.
It says that while they were going and we're talking about the disciples who visited the, the, the tomb.
It says some of the guard went into the city and told the chief priests everything that had happened.
After the priest had assembled with the elders, they devised a plan to give a large sum of money to the soldiers telling them you must say his disciples came and by night stole him while we were asleep.
If this comes to the governor's ears, we will satisfy him and keep you out of trouble.
So they took the money and did as they were directed.
And this saying was spread about among the Jews until this day.
Interesting.
Matthew 28 and verses 11 through 15.
And we have this edict, which came from Rome, which outlaws with the severest possible penalty, the taking of a body from the tomb.
Now, what's interesting about this is that this inscription kind of makes scoundrels out of the Jewish leadership because it was their idea to cook up the story.
And it makes criminals out of Jesus's disciples, you know, and anyone who comes along who might try the same deception.
Now, of course, we have to keep in mind that there may not have been disciples of Jesus to be punished under the edict.
You know, my research has already shown that the 12 with whom Jesus was closely associated with were or zodiacal in nature, possibly a zodiacal fiction.
There was no such crime committed in reality because the Gospels themselves, if they were historical fiction wouldn't allow for it.
But we know that Jewish rebels at the time did make heroes out of their martyrs.
And so we find even in the Slavonic Josephus, the wonder worker is the one who's released and not somebody named Barabbas.
So this wonder worker escaped from death, right?
And in some manuscripts, Barabbas is called Jesus Barabbas, which points to Barabbas and Jesus being one in the same and based on some other features.
And this idea of escaping from death was definitely around at the time in the first century, and this edict addresses that.
So if anybody heard this story of Jesus rising from the dead and the Jews plot to falsify it, when Matthew began to be circulated and scholars believe that Matthew was pinned, what, around 85 AD.
And if you heard this story and you say, oh, this is interesting, I think I'm going to try to pull this off with my own Messianic figure.
I think we'll dig him up.
Then the Nazareth inscription says, do not try this at home, folks.
Okay, you would be dissuaded by the death penalty.
In other words, the story seemed to be saying, here's the only story about rising from the dead that will be tolerated here.
So don't even think about faking your own.
And I think that's very interesting because while the apologists look backward from the Nazareth inscription and say, well, this might have been talking about the resurrection of Jesus.
I propose that just as well, it may have been looking forward.
Maybe Roman sponsorship was about to craft the story of the resurrection and wanted to make sure there were no other takers on it.
And that makes more sense to me, especially given the Roman provenance theory.
So I thought we'd talk a little bit about the Nazareth inscription.
It came to world attention in 1878 is when it was transferred from the Nazareth area in Palestine to Paris, France.
And then finally, the work was published in 1930 by France Camont and Camont is a world famous scholar.
As a matter of fact, he wrote on the astrological religions of Greece and Rome.
And that book is recognized by scholars as one of the essential books of Western civilization.
It's interesting because some of these books are very costly to procure as you as you know, research is an expensive proposition very often.
And the price of a book will go up and up and up and up and up until somebody says, but wait a minute, in Western civilization, we have to have that.
And then all of a sudden, you don't have to pay anything for.
So it's like these books are hundreds of dollars to get.
And I run into those and then finally, you know, if you get it classified or something everybody has to have, then okay, then finally becomes public domain or, you know, a universally acceptable.
So anyway, that's what Camont is famous for.
Well, he's the guy that published the Nazareth inscription in 1930.
Over the next two years, there was this blizzard of articles on on this marble tablet.
And what was interesting is the philologist, the historians, the archaeologists, nobody really doubted its authenticity.
What in question is what it means.
What was it referring to.
And so, a number of theories have been advanced in in support of it, describing the, the range of Claudius also Caligula has been suggested, and some others.
So one of the interesting things is if you look at the internal evidence, there are some words that are used, which have been traced to Claudius's administration one word is diatomia.
And diatomia is a Greek word, the Nazareth inscription is in Greek.
And this is a Greek word that means eat it.
And so that is an extremely rare word in Greek text.
In all of the ancient Greek text found this word only occurs eight times.
And one of those times outside of the Nazareth inscription, it is ascribed to Claudius.
Another place where it is found is in the book of Hebrews, chapter 11 verse 23.
Now that's interesting. So we have a very rare Greek word, the form of it is rare.
The root word itself is not but the form of it is extremely rare.
It had to the administration of Claudius, and Claudius was quite a linguist as a matter of fact, he wrote a history of Rome, and also is credited with inventing three letters of the Latin alphabet.
So he was quite an accomplished linguist and historian.
So we have this strange word diatomia that is in the Nazareth inscription is also found in the book of Hebrews, and where it is it's Hebrews chapter 11 verse 23.
Now, the viewers who are familiar with Hebrews chapter 11 will recognize that as kind of the hall of fame of faith.
And there, it's talking about the parents of Moses and it says Moses his parents by faith, hid him away from harm, and not fearing the edict of the king.
And that word for edict is diatomia. Well, that's the same word that's found in the Nazareth inscription.
And so one of the things I want to look at is hey let's look at the context of it.
One of I have already pointed out that the book of Hebrews does seem to have been written in the context of Claudius is edict expelling the Jews from Rome.
That I have not seen in in scholarship but when you look at it it becomes obvious especially especially in the latter verses of it.
That again would tie it to the administration of Claudius.
So diatomia is one and the other is this word for the ceiling stone of a tomb.
Okay, well the Nazareth inscription talks about the ceiling stones.
Well, the ceiling stones were used by and large by Jews.
They were not used by Gentiles.
The preferred method of Gentiles was different.
The method of burial was different and they often used cremation.
But when you talk about these ceiling stones, they primarily were used by the Jews and in a short space of time from about 200 years before the destruction of Jerusalem and the temple.
So up until that time obviously everything was was disrupted in 70 AD but up until that time this is how the Jews buried their dead.
And so it is and the Nazareth inscription is getting specifically at this particular method of burial.
And so it is written with the Jews in mind.
There is this evidence that Claudius is the one that did it.
Well, here we have something that Christian apologists are saying, well, this is a response to the resurrection of Christ and the emperor was worried.
So he let out this decree in fear that something like this might happen again.
Well, I have some questions to entertain for those who might espouse that.
Number one, you look at the possible dates of Jesus's passion of his death, his burial and his resurrection.
The range according to the stories of Matthew and Luke would be from about 30 AD to 39 AD.
So that's when the resurrection would have happened.
Now from 30 to 39, we're talking about the administrations of Tiberius and Caligula.
30 AD would be the 17th year of Tiberius.
And his administration continued on for seven more years.
He had 24 years in all.
And on March 16 of the year 38, I believe it's the year 38, it might have been 37, but I'm 37, 37, and then Caligula came in and served for three years.
He was assassinated and then Claudius is reigned.
So the question is this, if Claudius is the one who apparently is responsible for the Nazareth inscription and the resurrection of Jesus had already taken place, why didn't Tiberius write the inscription?
Why didn't Caligula write the inscription?
You're trying to protect Rome from these militants who may come up with a resurrection story.
Why would you wait 10 years in order to write it?
That makes no sense whatsoever unless it was necessary for things to play out and Claudius to formulate the story about the resurrection more in line with the upcoming Gospels.
In other words, the Nazareth inscription may not be looking back to an actual resurrection of Jesus, it may be looking forward to the story of Jesus' resurrection that was about to be crafted.
Interesting.
That's an interesting theory because, and I don't know how much Lena Einhorn's shift in time theory could play a role in here, you know, being that if you're really, what I like about what Lena does is, I hope I'm pronouncing that correct.
And she seems to give like the best historical analysis by looking at these historical fictions and saying, look, they're not lining up with Josephus.
Josephus is the historian.
The Gospels are obviously completely not saying there isn't fictional comparative things and stuff that are going on in Josephus.
But if we were to analyze Josephus, I personally find Josephus far more reliable when comparing it to the Gospels than, you know, the Gospels themselves.
And when you look at it, they don't line up.
And so Josephus seems to push the dates further ahead like you're doing here with this inscription.
And if this is the case, this might line up more with the Claudius angle, but I get what you're saying.
Ultimately, they push the story back, of course.
Anyone can write a story about any time, especially if they know the history to some degree, but it's clear.
They don't even know the geography well.
Mark has geography mixed up.
Like there's a lot of clear indications.
These authors were writing later, didn't really have great sources.
It seems Matthew has a better source for geography than Mark.
A lot of clear indications that these guys are all over the place and it's not as reliable.
The Gospels aren't as reliable, but what you're doing is looking at other sources than just the Bible within the first century.
And this tune narrative, I think, I think it's interesting just throwing this out there and that this doesn't necessarily line up with what you're suggesting.
But in that Matthew 28 passage, I think it's weird that they would say, oh, let's pay them money
and have them say that the body was stolen.
I mean, this could be an Occam's razor argument.
Just throwing this out there.
What if they really stole a body of a guy and they throw it in there to explain why the body's gone?
Just saying.
It's an option.
But I love what you do.
Well, you know, I think that's the modus operandi that was common at the time among Messianics.
These sects wanted to push their own views of the Messiah and their own avatar.
And they would have no compunction about digging up a body in order to make those stories work.
You know, it's kind of like in order to have control of the story, you've got to lock the environment down.
Now, okay, I'm going to make a statement here and I don't want the viewers to get upset, but it's my statement as a guest, okay?
Not as a host, as a guest.
So if this is political, I hope it doesn't offend you, okay?
But what I'm talking about is, for example, the World Trade Center.
All right, there are many who believe a Zogby poll was taken in 2001 shortly after the September 11th incident, horrible incident, which many people were killed.
But a Zogby poll was taken in which 85% of the people at the government was not releasing the whole story and that somehow the government was involved.
Well, it turns out sometime afterward that there was a shutdown of the building, the bomb-sniffing dogs were removed, and there was a control of the environment in order to make the story that later was released become more plausible.
This type of thing happens all the time.
So, you know, whether it's what some of the conspiracy theorists call a my hop type story or a lie hop type story, you know, my hop is M-I-H-O-P.
Made it happen on purpose.
Sometimes if you're involved in something that has to happen and you can push it, then that'll help your narrative.
You can make some actual things happen and then incorporate that into the story.
Or it can be a lie hop in which you let it happen on purpose.
You're not exactly making it happen, but if it does, I'll just stand by and I won't say anything because that also works to my advantage.
So that can happen too.
So, yeah, I mean, getting a handle on all of these variables is very difficult, but certainly the sectaries operating at the time wanted to push their own particular views and people to their own advantage.
One of the things about this inscription is that it is assumed that it came from Nazareth.
It's by no means clear that the Nazareth inscription has anything to do with Nazareth.
As scholars point out, that could just be the shipping point which got it to Paris.
Nazareth did not exist as a town in the time of Jesus.
Dr. Robert Price has said that.
Others scholars have said it and verified it.
There's no town of Nazareth in the Old Testament, not in Josephus, not in the Talmud.
The town didn't exist.
So was it Nazareth?
Did it have anything whatsoever to do with Nazareth?
Perhaps not.
One town in Galilee, which was very famous and alluded to in various places throughout the scripture that this inscription might have been connected with is Sephorus.
Sephorus, called by Josephus in the first century, the ornament of Galilee, a beautiful city that was perched on a hilltop.
And Sephorus means bird, by the way, because if you were there and you're overlooking the landscape, it appeared that you were a bird flying.
This is a city that was perched on a hill, and it is thought that in Matthew, you know, when Jesus says a city on the hill cannot be hit, then the city he was talking about is Sephorus.
And that's in Galilee.
There was a contingent of Nazarians based in Sephorus.
And in fact, it was a government town.
It was the kind of town that might have sponsored the writing of the Gospels.
But is Sephorus mentioned directly in the Gospels?
No.
It is mentioned in Josephus as the site of an important rebellion.
The armory was raided in the time of Judas the Galilean.
But that may be actually what is referred to.
You know, and this is interesting.
In Luke chapter four, when Jesus is coming out of the wilderness, he comes out in the power of the Spirit and he says he shows up at his hometown of Nazareth, which we know didn't exist at the time.
And it says that there he made some statements about the people not understanding what was intended in the old covenant days and that the people went to throw him off the brow of the hill upon which the city was built.
That's not Nazareth.
It didn't exist.
But it is Sephorus.
It perfectly describes Sephorus.
So, so again, playing fast and loose with these, with these kinds of facts is just something that was done all the time.
Now you talked about Josephus.
Do we really know how to read Josephus?
I mean, I've already called him out on some very important things.
I mean, come on, think about it, Derek.
Josephus is the one who said that during Passover, a bovine gave birth to a lamb.
Right.
Yeah, you know, can I feel pretty safe and saying that that didn't happen.
Yeah, in any literal sense, of course, not know that didn't happen.
That did not happen.
But we've caught Josephus in some other things that people might assume are literate, which during the course of this show, I can't wait to get to when we talk a little later.
And many scholars may not realize that guys, Josephus is having you on.
You've got to understand he is not literal here.
So yeah, I respect what what scholars like like Lena Einhorn have said about the Gospels lining, not lining up with Josephus.
But at the same time, we got to realize Josephus doesn't always line up with reality.
Yeah, from what I understand, and this is common, this is a consensus thing, is it's obvious when you read Josephus, he's a propagandist.
Okay, there's no getting around the political slant, the pro Flavian position he holds in favor of them.
Many do however think he's trying to be as the best he can a faithful Jew while still remaining.
Flavian, if you will. So he's, I think, bipolar in a sense, trying to figure out how can I be pro Hellenism, and not even Torah observant circumcision, so to speak.
And at the same time, be, you know, a faithful son of Abraham.
And it's like, they even go together, you know.
Anyway, I think that it's obvious that you're you're on to some stuff here.
And I've even mentioned this to other scholars who are very mainstream about, you know, Jesus been in a nice.
It's obvious that if there was something going on with a figure during this time, even that to some degrees fictionalized, there's no way that literally happened.
And that doesn't go as far as saying a different type of animal gives birth to a completely different species.
Like, this is something that most people would say, how did he know when the catapult came, Jesus been in a nice gave his last woe unto me.
That stuff sounds like a literal poetry fictional tale, you know.
So, or the woman does, it's a little too much detail for you to be talking about and not to have been there.
Yeah, or the garden of Gethsemane, right in the Gospels.
It's like, how did you know everybody was asleep, man?
So, and I have Christians all the time today.
They'll go, duh, he told him later on.
And it's like, come on.
Of course he did.
You know, great, great memory.
Of course, when you're the, when you're the son of God, you got a memory that doesn't quit, right?
You can evoke it at any possible time.
And of course your people are going to be able to write down without a mistake what it is you intend.
I often think about the opening of the Book of Acts, where it says, Jesus gathered the disciples and there he taught them by the Holy Spirit.
And I'm going, wait a minute, taught by the Holy Spirit.
What does that mean?
You know, I kind of know what regular teaching looks like.
I've been a teacher for many years.
But when you teach by the Holy Spirit, does that mean, okay, guys, the physical part's over.
I'm going to zap you the rest of the information tonight.
There'll be a test on it tomorrow.
I mean, what does that mean too?
Yeah, it's almost like everyone gather under this cloud.
Because in 2000 years, people are going to use a cloud for information.
But I'm going to give the ancient Holy Spirit cloud information.
Yeah, right.
Exactly, you know.
So, yeah, I mean, the way these things are laid out really depends on our understanding the ancient methods of writing,
but not only that, the motivations involved.
And that's what I'm getting into.
And that's why I think they still believe, I said this two years ago and you're aware of it,
that the overarching theoretical framework that works best that I have discovered so far in explaining
national Christianity is Roman provenance theory.
Our PT is by far the best theoretical framework.
There are others.
But I have reasons for saying that one of the things is that it is possible to construct a detailed timeline.
You can't do a detailed timeline of mystery religion.
You can't do a detailed timeline of itinerant figures, not a detailed one.
You're going to have gaps in that timeline of 50 years, 100 years, sometimes 200 years.
But the Roman timeline is extremely tight.
And that's why in writing my book, the first thing that I did was to develop a detailed timeline.
And that has helped tremendously.
What I found in doing that is that it is possible to construct the whole story of Christianity without having Jesus involved at all.
I'm not saying, obviously, that there was, I'm not saying definitively that there was no historical Jesus.
I'm saying it is possible to make sense of the Christian story absolutely entirely without the figure of Jesus.
And speaking of that, you brought up Jesus, Ben Ananias, right?
Yeah.
And we'll call him Ben Ananius because there may be a difference.
I'm not exactly sure yet.
I'm in the process of researching this.
But the difference is this.
One is the singular possessive.
The other is the plural possessive.
Ben Ananias means son of my cloud and Ben Ananius, which I think is accurate, means son of our cloud.
So that's the possessive plural.
So if you're trying to get a collectivity involved, then there could be a difference in saying Ananius.
Make sure you put the U in there, which would be the plural possessive, which comes from the Hebrew.
But this is kind of a Jewish way of interpreting things too.
I don't mean to interrupt you, but a lot of Jewish scholars look at Daniel, for example, and when people want to literalize or single out and act like it's a single character,
often Israel as a collective whole seems to be the way they would interpret things where we Christians come at these texts and we think it's a single individual.
We face value it, not realizing this is a total Israel.
So is it possible that Jesus has been an Ananias or this been an Ananias guy or whatever?
How are you pronouncing it?
If he is a collective whole of the catapult coming down on Israel in some, you know, bigger sense.
You know, that's an interpretation which bears looking into this character definitely has a bearing on the collective.
Of what was going on at the time.
No question about it.
We're not talking about an individual, but he ties into the larger framework of what was transpiring.
And if we want to see how you look at the years 62 AD through 64, which I call the year of the Jesuses.
Okay.
In 62, we had the killing of James by Ananias Ben Ananias.
And James was stoned while was being stoned while Felix the governor was was being replaced by albinus albinus had not yet arrived.
And a Sanhedrin was called illegally during which James was killed.
Okay.
Isn't it interesting that James was a popular figure and and there was widespread protest on the heels of his murder.
And the next high priest who was appointed under the authority of albinus was named Jesus.
And his now James was, I believe, and scholars point to this, a believer in Jesus.
And we're not necessarily talking about the physical Jesus, but we are talking about the Jesus of the Nazarian because James was a Nazarian.
Very important sect to which we attribute, at least a subgroup, the writing of the Gospels and much of the New Testament.
So the Nazarians, the Nazarians are immensely important in all of this.
So you have James, who was a believer in Jesus.
You can call him the brother of the Lord or you can call him the brother of Jesus.
He's killed in 62.
When albinus finally makes it in, it's, oh, you did terrible Ananias Ben Ananias.
We've got to have a high priest.
Now that is legitimate who has the backing of Rome, but who also is acceptable by the people.
Let's get Jesus Ben Damneus.
Okay.
He comes in in 63.
I believe it was early 63 that would have been soon thereafter.
Okay.
And he lasts for about a year and he's replaced by Jesus Ben Gamelio.
So you have James who believed in Jesus.
He dies.
He's followed by Jesus Ben Damneus and he is followed by Jesus Ben Gamelio.
I believe that's a good incentive to write the Gospels and its central figure named Jesus because this is the year that's extremely important.
Then go to Josephus.
Watch this.
Josephus claims that Jesus Ben Ananias, who was killed when the Roman engine released its rock, and he said that Jesus Ben Ananias had been prophesying for seven years and five months.
So you back up seven years and five months from 70 AD.
That puts him right in the year that Jesus is.
So he was in there also and that would have been 63 AD.
Hmm.
James a believer in Jesus, Jesus Ben Damneus, Jesus Ben Gamelio and Jesus Ben Ananias all in the same years of 62 to 64 AD.
Now here's what's interesting.
Jesus Ben Damneus and scholars have speculated on what that name means and the significance of it.
We know pretty much that if anything, it means the condemned.
He's the son of the condemned.
What I find that's interesting.
Damneus has a numerical value of 576, which is 144 times four.
Does the number 144 mean anything to biblical scholars?
It should, if we know the book of Revelation, that that book is very widespread and it is the number that describes the Nazorians.
So think about it.
James is an Azorian and he gets executed by Ananias Ben Ananias.
The next high priest is installed and he has to be a figure that the populace will accept.
He's Jesus, son of Damneus, meaning the condemned, the condemned.
Well, who's the condemned?
The condemned is probably James, the guy you just killed.
And the guy that comes from him in the sense of the resulting high priest from James is being killed.
Obviously, he can't be high priest anymore.
He's dead.
You call this guy Jesus Ben Damneus.
And of course, the name of the high priest was not really a name.
It was a title.
So he's son of the condemned and condemned has a numerical value of 144, which is the number of the Nazorians, which James belonged to.
So it was it was no mistake that the high priest following James's execution was named Jesus.
In fact, they still hadn't got Jesus out of their system because the high priest after that was Jesus Ben Gamaliel.
And they were both anointed high priest since this is what the high priest was considered.
He was considered to be a messianic figure by most.
So he was not only Jesus, but he was Jesus Christ of Jesus.
Jesus creates those the anointed Jesus.
So you had to Jesus Christ's following James.
And then Jesus Ben Anano's prophesying at the same time.
Now that is sufficient motivation to say what you maybe your central character who within 13 years time, 15 years time, you're going to be writing about in the gospel.
If the first gospel was Mark, and it was written about 75 AD, then the Jesus fervor, which was taking place at that time may be a contributing factor to it.
Another thing is just how common, how widespread a name Jesus was.
In fact, one scholar of the time estimates that in Judea, one out of a little bit more, but one out of roughly every 27 males was named Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
So that's extremely common.
So if you call James the brother of Jesus, that's like saying, Derek, the brother of John.
Well, who's John?
Well, John is the common man.
You got so many people named John.
Okay.
So if I wanted to express that Derek is the brother of the common man, if he's the friend of the common man, how would I do it?
I'd say Derek brother of John.
Now, is that a literal John?
No.
I'm making a statement by that.
Well, it's possible that James was the brother of Jesus in that exact same sense.
And if you say he was the brother of the Lord, then that brings in to play even more Gnostic suggestions, at least in the writing of it.
Because in Corinthians where it talks about the brother of the Lord, the brother of the Lord in Galatians is the main reference to it.
All those things are attended by some serious Gamatria, both the 144 pattern and also the 276 pattern, which represents the path, manner and progression of salvation.
That's represented there.
And I throw those numbers out because they're not many of them.
But when I talk about them, because this is the spine of the book, these esoterics, there are only a few number patterns that you have to know.
1290, 1335, 276 and 144.
These are the esoteric numbers that they used in order to convey their messages.
And so we talk about how in the book, but listen, check this out, check this out.
Jesus Ben Ananoes supposedly prophesied for seven years and five months before he was killed by that Roman engine at the siege of Jerusalem.
So I took a look at that.
I said seven years and five months.
Let's look at that in prophetic time.
Let's see if Josephus is up to anything.
Well, in prophetic time, a year is the standard Egyptian year of 360 days.
This is what was used in Daniel and is used in many prophetic settings.
Now that's not the same as the calendars of the year, but it is commonly resolved in the writers with the writers of the time that the year is 360 days.
And a month consists of 30 days.
And this was standard used.
This is how the book of Daniel is laid out and we have reason to believe that the sex that came along after the masculine wrote the latter chapters of Daniel use the same system.
So what would seven years and five months be assuming we have a 360 day year, and we have five 30 day months.
Well, here's what it works out to seven years and five months works out to 2,670 days.
Okay.
2,670 is 1335 times two.
The most esoteric number that the ancients in the time of the first century were using.
So that's probably not a literal time.
The whole story about Jesus been an anus preaching for seven years and five months, but seven years of five months is a way of getting at the number 1335.
And it shows that Josephus was in on the esoteric.
And this parks back to Daniel.
Obviously for those audience members, the people watching who have not seen what Luther does with 1335.
And I don't want to go get caught up in the context there right now because I know that you spent time on previous shows go check those episodes out.
Where 1335, he talks about the days of 1290.
Blessed are those who make it to the 1335 days, those type of things.
And 1335, 1335 is something that Daniel is using as eschatological or has a prophetic scheme to.
And here you're suggesting Josephus is not some dummy.
He knows Daniel.
He knows his Hebrew Bible.
And a lot of times it seems that when they use the prophetic trope, they're looking at Daniel often because Daniel is extremely eschatological or it has a prophetic nature to it, unlike what you would see in many other places.
It's pretty black and white.
Right, right.
Daniel was a favorite of theirs.
The book of Maccabees was also a favorite, but in a disguised form.
Second Maccabees is attributed to Jason of Cyrene.
Jason of Cyrene may be encoded in the Gospels as Simon of Cyrene.
And in that latter chapter of Mark, it says that Simon of Cyrene had two sons, Alexander and Rufus.
Isn't it interesting that two of the most important literary personalities during Claudius's administration were Alexander, Tiberius Julius Alexander, and Marcus Cluvius Rufus.
They both worked with Claudius.
This is an appetizer.
If you're hungry like I am, you're going to want the full course.
Get the book.
Man, Luther, I got to ask, when's this book coming out, man?
Do you have, and I know you can't answer that as if you have omniscience.
But can you give a possible date or an idea approximately how long till you're probably going to try and publish it?
I'm working toward the end of the year.
And if all goes well, my dates for cutting off the writing, that's going to be happening soon.
And then of course, it's a question of doing the formatting and the indexing.
And hopefully that will be through by the end of the year.
So we'll keep our fingers crossed.
But I hope that the esoterics don't throw anybody off.
But I would encourage anybody, please, when you read these things in Daniel, about the 1290 days, the 1335 days,
there are ways to interpret that that are not literal and that are authentic.
According to the users at the time, the sects that were involved in esoteric methods, both in the first century and before.
So we talk a lot about that and about the continuity of these esoteric groups from the Maccabean times,
because the Maccabean times were essential in understanding Christianity in the first century and the continuity for a couple of centuries going ahead of that.
Let me speak for the skeptics that are watching right now.
I am very close to Luther.
And Luther has witnessed me become more of a skeptic over the years.
And I'm going to tell you something that I think is fascinating about what he does with the gematria.
That as a skeptic, you don't have to throw the baby out with the bathwater.
You might go, well, I think Daniel meant it in a literal sense and it was a failure or whatever.
Okay, I'll grant you that.
Take into consideration something though.
Oftentimes, if you say that interpretation is your favorite interpretation, you think it's Occam's or you think it's the case.
Oftentimes, these literary structures, these numerical values, these phrases, these prophetic schemes, if you will,
get reused and esotericized if I can use the term, because I'll give you an example.
The Gospels clearly indicate the kingdom of God was going to come.
And man, it was supposed to manifest physically.
The Jews expected it.
This was not a guess.
They knew their Hebrew Bible.
But what did the New Testament gospel authors do?
They took something that didn't happen according to the reality of what they expected and said, well, we must have missed it.
They esotericized it.
They made it a spiritual reality.
So any of these things that you might say, nope, and you only favor one literal interpretation.
Oftentimes, is rehashed or reinterpreted or spiritualized, and the New Testament is great at this.
Paul quotes the Hebrew Bible.
He says, does God care about oxen?
Go read the Bible.
Yes, he cares about oxen.
In fact, you can get in serious trouble for mistreating your animals.
God was not okay with how you treated animals.
However, later on, people are now animals, Enoch.
Look at the animal apocalypse.
Look at the New Testament.
Paul says, no, God's not concerned about the animals.
He was talking about us.
And it's like, hold on, dude, you just recontextualized something that may have had an initial meaning.
And I only say that because Luther does have an esoteric understanding of the Daniel numbers.
But if you don't, it doesn't mean those numbers didn't get used in an esoteric manner.
So we don't have to be black and white.
We don't have to be, I must favor one position.
Great to entertain it.
But I only say that in favor of you, Luther, because I know the numbers can throw people away.
People can get thrown off.
And I entertain it.
I love it.
But you're like a calculator without a calculator.
You just are a numbers guy.
Well, you know, Derek, I've been studying the scriptures from that angle for a quarter of a century now.
So I feel like I have, and one thing this book has brought about,
I think I have a better command of the esoterics now in interplay with the exoterics than ever before,
because now it makes sense the numbers that I've been looking at all this time.
It makes perfect sense why they use these numbers, what they represent, who it is that use them,
and in what connection.
I'll give you an example.
I'm trying to do this without giving away too much in the book.
Okay.
You take the relationship between John the Baptist and Jesus.
There is some evidence that John the Baptist represented a group.
Here we go again.
Not an individual, but a group.
I favor that explanation right now.
I favor it.
I also believe that Jesus represented a group.
John represented the Essenes.
Jesus represented the Nazarians.
We know that there were thousands of Nazarians who gained popularity,
and the Essenes transferred to their ranks in droves.
So the New Testament is largely the story of Essenes becoming Nazarians.
And this would be why their ministries followed one another.
Do I believe that John was a historical figure?
I don't know.
Sometimes.
Does it seem reasonable that he got his head cut off in court with Herod Antipas?
Well, I don't know.
I think it's August 29th.
It's the Feast of the Death of John the Baptist in which the sign of Aquarius gets its head cut off by Leo the Lion.
The hero Herod is the Lion of the Zodiac.
And right opposite it is Aquarius.
And the lion appears to cut off the head of the water bearer.
And so what about this story about John getting his head cut off?
Is that literally true?
Well, it doesn't have to be necessarily.
What it may be showing us is the relationship between these corresponding groups.
What it may be showing us is how did the Herodians relate to the Essenes?
So then what we're really reading about is the persecution of the Essenes by the Herodians.
And then when Herod Agrippa does the same thing in the book of Acts and he executes John, who's the brother of James,
who's the brother of John, son of Zephyde.
Now we have the same antagonism transferred from the Essenes to the Nazorians.
Because James was a Nazorian.
So what it's really saying is that Agrippa was a persecutor of the Nazorians.
The way Antipas was a persecutor of the Essenes.
And we look at the transition from the Essenes to the Nazorians.
Well, the Essenes were largely a secretive sect.
And they were very proprietary.
And there were those of the Essenes who were very reluctant,
especially in the face of Herodian rule, to bring out what they knew and to make it popular in the context of Jewish society.
So the Nazorians, however, had a little different approach.
Their approach was to popularize the mysteries.
And very often they espouse family values in the way that Essenes did not, because they were hermits,
and they did not believe in marriage.
Some of the most popular Essenes sects simply eschewed marriage and the Nazorians didn't.
The Nazorians were absolutely fruitful, and that's why much of their gematria has to do with fruitfulness.
That's not just esoteric fruitfulness.
It means, yeah, we can marry and we can have families.
And that's expressed in their esoterics.
So they want you to know who they are.
So in this transition from the Essenes to the Nazorians, did you know that there are esoteric numbers
where in every passage in the Scriptures where you have John giving way to Jesus, you find this number present?
I can go to any passage where it talks about Jesus succeeding John, or John being a forerunner of Jesus,
or none greater born of women than John, but he who is least in the kingdom is greater than he.
Passages like that, where there's this comparison or contrast between John and Jesus.
The same esoteric number is there, so you can see what is being said.
It's fantastic.
What is that number?
I'm not going to tell you.
Get the book.
Get the book.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's in the book.
You can see what the number is, and the text is right there.
You can examine it and see what happened when an Essen became a Nazorian.
I can tell you what, I got your number, Dr. Luther.
And ladies and gentlemen, this is the gentleman who will go down as a legend.
When this thing grows, you always remember that Dr. Luther G. Williams and myself started this off as the water boys.
And I always value your time, your friendship.
I love you, brother.
Everything that you've taught and continue to teach me, I take in and consider it.
I'm very critical, meaning not critical of the person.
Critical in terms of I digest information.
I put it on shelves, and I pull it off and examine it, and I just keep doing that right now.
You have far more, your capacity of information has, you've taken it a lot more than I have,
but I want to be that is unbiased as possible in terms of collecting information to try and draw conclusions,
because who knows where I'll be at the end of the day.
I really appreciate you coming on.
Well, Derek, you're doing a magnificent job of just that.
Particularly in these dialogues between you and Dr. Price, Dr. Robert M. Price,
you are presenting for posterity the incredible scholarship of this man.
And I want to thank you personally for getting as much of Robert Price on video as history will allow.
That in itself justifies what we're doing in the show.
But I mean, and many other examples, the wide swath that you're cutting of guests that represent varying points of view.
To get that kind of traction.
But finally, we are, we are attracting guests, not just from what you might expect, myth, vision to do,
pushing out into the lesser explored topics.
And I want to commend you on that.
I'm going to continue.
Thank you for the commending because you're the one who led the way.
In fact, he's the John the Baptist, and I'm not at all saying he's not worthy of unbuckling my shoes.
That's the BS propaganda.
Okay.
In fact, I honor the elder.
I honor those who come before you.
I am standing on his back.
And so with that being said, I thank you because your personality, like I said at the beginning of the show,
your PhD, you have a PhD in mass communication.
I learned your tricks.
I took we are the vision from you.
And to another level, man, you have the rhythm, baby.
You have the rhythm.
And so with that being said, everyone watching, if you're a fan of myth vision and you wonder why this thing exists and you want to help it continue to exist.
Of course, you can join myth vision podcast, patreon and all that kind of stuff.
But this is the guy who helped me make this possible and have the drive co-hosted with me early on making me learn how to take it serious and how to, you know, he's tough on me sometimes.
I'm going to tell you, he'll tell you.
If you ever get Luther alone, he'll tell you, hell no, Derek, that's not going to work.
Do it again.
And, you know, you were like a father figure and you still are many respects.
So help him out.
Become a patron member.
Give him some donation.
If you can, I know it'll go long ways with your research to help you get the book.
It's going to cost to publish this thing.
It's going to cost to make that possible.
And if any of you favor what he's saying, you really appreciate that.
Look, you can reach out to him on Facebook.
You guys can add Dr. Luther G. Williams.
He is touchable, but only at the hem if you're bleeding, just so you know.
As long as I don't have to get my head cut off, actually, you know, I don't want to,
I don't want to be a John the Baptist in that sense.
Right.
But yeah, please reach out to me.
Luther G. Williams, Ph.D. at gmail.com is where you can reach me by email.
And yes, I'm all over Facebook.
I look forward to conversing with you as I've already done with many of you
who have reached out or donated.
Your name will figure prominently in this book.
So look out for it.
And again, that book, Derek, is the esoteric dimension restoring the lost roots
of early Christianity.
Hmm.
Ladies and gentlemen, you heard it from the master, the legend, the mythology,
Dr. Luther G. Williams.
And don't forget, we are Mythition.
Mythition.
