Inanna and Demusie, How Demusie Became the Dying and Rising God
Greetings viewers, today we will be exploring some ancient Sumerian myths, centering around
two important deities, the goddess Inanna and the god Demusie.
These stories date back over 4,000 years to ancient Mesopotamia, but they contain timeless
themes that still resonate today.
The main myth we will be looking at is called Inanna's Descent to the Netherworld.
This epic tale depicts Inanna's journey to the underworld and how it led to the death
and rebirth of her husband Demusie.
We will also touch on two other myths, Demusie and Geshtiana and Demusie's Dream, which further
detail how Demusie was captured by demons and brought to the Netherworld.
These stories illuminate the Sumerian world view and provide insight into their mythology
and religious beliefs.
The changing seasons, agriculture, love, death, loyalty, dreams, all play integral roles.
We will discuss the major themes and symbolism at work in these myths and what they reveal
about the Mesopotamian culture.
Inanna stands out as a rare example of a powerful goddess figure in ancient mythology.
The love between Inanna and Demusie provides a more human, relatable side to the deities.
Demusie's eventual death and resurrection foreshadows later dying and rising god archetypes
who profoundly influenced many cultures.
I hope this overview provides useful context for the analysis of the myths themselves.
Let's dive into the incredible world of Inanna, Demusie, and ancient Sumer.
Please subscribe and stay tuned for more mythological explorations.
Inanna's Descent to the Netherworld
From the great heaven, Inanna set her mind to the great below.
My mistress abandoned heaven, abandoned earth, and descended to the Netherworld.
In ancient Sumerian mythology, Inanna stands out as a powerful, sexual, war-like goddess.
Several stories describe her descent to the Netherworld and how it ultimately affected
her husband, the shepherd Demusie.
In one of the most famous myths about Inanna, she travels to the other side, descending
into the depths of the Netherworld.
We will join the goddess as she journeys to the land of no return and find out if she
is able to make it back alive.
As with many Sumerian myths, Inanna's Descent to the Netherworld goes all the way back to
around 2000 BCE and contains over 400 lines of texts.
Cuneiform tablets that contain the story have been found in different Sumerian cities, including
the famous cities of Ur and Nipur.
The story opens with Inanna setting her mind to go down to the Netherworld.
Although she has many cities and temples under her care, she abandons them all and prepares
to make her way to the land of no return.
She took the seven divine powers.
She collected the divine powers and grasped them in her hand.
With the good divine powers, she went on her way.
Her minister, Nin Shuber, began the journey with her but was quickly sent on an important
mission.
On this day, I will descend to the underworld.
When I have arrived in the underworld, make a lament for me on the ruined mounds.
Beat the drum for me in the sanctuary.
Make the rounds of the houses of the gods for me.
Inanna instructs Nin Shuber to perform mourning rituals for the goddess, just as one would
do for the dead.
They are then to go and petition the various gods on Inanna's behalf.
Like a pauper, clothe yourself in a single garment and all alone set your foot in the
acor, the house of Enlil.
When you have entered the acor, the house of Enlil.
Lament before Enlil.
Father Enlil, don't let anyone kill your daughter in the underworld.
Don't let your precious metal be alloyed there with the dirt of the underworld.
Don't let your precious lapis lazuli be split there with the mason's stone.
Don't let your box would be chopped up there with the carpenter's wood.
Don't let young lady Inanna be killed in the underworld.
But perhaps the god Enlil would not respond.
If Nin Shuber's pleas were ignored, they were to travel to the temple of the god Inanna,
in the city of Ur, and plead Inanna's case.
If Inanna would not respond, Nin Shuber was to travel to Eridu and see Inki and beg for
help.
It seems that Inanna knows that neither Enlil nor Inanna will respond, as she tells Nin
Shuber.
Father Enki, the lord of great wisdom, knows about the life-giving plant and the life-giving
water.
He is the one who will restore me to life.
Plant and water of life?
Not familiar?
Having instructed her minister, Inanna ventures to the netherworld, to the gates of the palace
Gansur.
Open up, Dormund.
Open up.
Open up, Netty.
Open up.
I am all alone, and I want to come in.
Netty, confused by Inanna's arrival, asks why she has made this journey.
Because Lord Good Galaana, the husband of my elder sister, Holy Areshkigal, has died.
In order to have his funeral rites observed, she offers generous libations at his wake.
That is the reason.
Unsure of what to do, Netty, the doorkeeper of the netherworld, goes to Areshkigal, the
queen of the netherworld, to ask what should be done.
My mistress, there is a lone girl outside.
It is Inanna, your sister, and she has arrived at the palace Gansur.
She pushed aggressively on the door of the underworld.
She shouted aggressively at the gate of the underworld.
She has abandoned Aanna, and has descended to the underworld.
Areshkigal instructs Netty to allow Inanna to enter, but to disarm her of her powers
as she enters the netherworld.
Netty, the chief Dormund of the underworld, paid attention to the instructions of his
mistress.
He bolted the seven gates of the underworld.
Then he opened each of the doors of the palace Gansur separately.
He said to Holy Inanna, come on Inanna, and enter.
As she passes through each gate, however, she is required to remove an article of clothing
as part of the rites of the underworld.
After she had crouched down and had her clothes removed, they were carried away.
Then she made her sister Areshkigal rise from her throne, and instead she sat on her throne.
The Inanna, the seven judges, rendered their decision against her.
They looked at her.
It was the look of death.
They spoke to her.
It was the speech of anger.
They shouted at her.
It was the shout of heavy guilt.
The afflicted woman was turned into a corpse, and the corpse was hung on a hook.
That's right.
Inanna was killed for her actions.
But it appears, as we saw earlier, that Inanna knew that she was likely to die in her journey
to the netherworld.
Her body was hung on a hook.
After three days and three nights had passed, her minister Ninshubur carried out the instructions
of her mistress.
After three days and nights, Ninshubur sprang into action.
They brought the message to Inlil, then to Inanna, and finally to Inki.
Father Inki answered Ninshubur, What has my daughter done?
She has me worried.
What has Inanna done?
She has me worried.
He removed some dirt from the tip of his fingernail and created the kugara.
He removed some dirt from the tip of his other fingernail and created the galatora.
To the kugara, he gave the life-giving plant.
To the galatora, he gave the life-giving water.
Inki then instructs his two creations, the kugara and the galatora, to go and rescue
Inanna.
Flits passed the door like flies, slipped through the door like phantoms.
The mother who gave birth, a reshkigal, on account of her children is lying there.
When she says, Oh my heart, you are troubled, oh mistress, oh your heart.
When she says, Oh my body, you are to say, you are troubled, oh mistress, oh your body.
She will then ask, Who are you?
If you are gods, let me talk with you.
If you are mortals, may a destiny be decreed for you.
As we saw in the myth about a dapper and the south wind, Inki again warns his creations
against accepting food and drink gifts.
They will offer you a river full of water.
Don't accept it.
They will offer you a field with its grain.
Don't accept it.
But say to her, whether it is that of our king, whether it is that of our queen, give
it to us.
She will give you the corpse hanging on the hook.
One of you sprinkle on it the life-giving plant and the other the life-giving water.
Thus, let Inanna arise.
The two creatures precisely obey Inki's instructions and apply the plant and water
of life.
And thus, Inanna arose.
Having been brought back to life, Inanna attempted to flee the netherworld.
But as Inanna was about to descend from the underworld, the Anuna seized her.
Who has ever ascended from the underworld, has ascended unscathed from the underworld?
If Inanna is to ascend from the underworld, let her provide a substitute for herself.
Inanna could not simply leave the land of no return.
She could only depart if she provided someone to remain in her place.
Inanna is then escorted out of the netherworld under close guard by demons.
Inanna snatched the son from a man's knee.
They make the bride leave the house of her father-in-law.
Holy Inanna first approaches her faithful minister, Ninshuber, who throws herself on
the ground in front of Inanna.
She had sat in the dust and clothed herself in a filthy garment.
While dead, Ninshuber had mourned her mistress and had done everything to bring her back.
The demons suggest that Inanna continue on to her city and allow them to take Ninshuber
back in Inanna's place.
Holy Inanna answered the demons.
This is my minister of fair words, my escort of trustworthy words.
She did not forget my instructions.
She did not neglect the orders I gave her.
She made a lament for me on the ruined mounds.
She beat the drum for me in the sanctuaries.
She made the rounds of the gods' houses for me.
She lacerated her eyes for me, lacerated her nose for me.
In private, she lacerated her buttocks for me.
Like a pauper, she clothed herself in a single garment.
She brought me back to life.
How could I turn her over to you?
Let us go on.
Because of her faithfulness and her mourning, Inanna refuses to provide Ninshuber as a substitute
and presses on to the city of Uma.
There they approach the god, Shara.
Shara, in his own city, threw himself at her feet.
He had sat in the dust and dressed himself in a filthy garment.
The demons suggest Shara to be her substitute.
But Inanna refuses, as Shara had mourned for her.
They move on to the city of Bhattibira, where Lula does the same and is spared as well.
They finally reach Inanna's city, where she sees her husband, the shepherd Damuzi.
There was Damuzi, clothed in a magnificent garment and seated magnificently on a throne.
Oops!
He was not mourning the loss of the goddess, and it cost him.
She looked at him.
It was the look of death.
She spoke to him.
It was the speech of anger.
She shouted at him.
It was the shout of heavy guilt.
How much longer?
Take him away!
Holy Inanna gave Damuzi the shepherd into their hands.
Damuzi cries out to the sun god Utu, who aids him in his escape, but only temporarily.
Damuzi is ultimately caught by the demons and taken to the netherworld.
Inanna wells for her husband, but it is of little use.
Damuzi's sister, Geshtiana, ultimately acts as a partial substitute for her brother.
You, Damuzi, for half the year, and your sister for half the year.
When you are demanded, on that day you will stay.
When your sister is demanded, on that day you will be released.
As the story closes, we see that Damuzi is condemned to be a substitute for Inanna, remaining
in the netherworld for half of the year, while his sister, Geshtiana, is to remain
for the other half of the year.
However, the process by which Damuzi was brought to the land of no return is only briefly described
in Inanna's descent.
Another myth, known as Damuzi and Geshtiana, describes in greater detail the journey that
Damuzi himself took to the netherworld, Damuzi and Geshtiana.
The story opens with a conversation being held by two demons.
Come on, let's go to the lap of Holy Inanna.
They capture her and attempt to bring her to the netherworld.
However, Inanna gives them Damuzi as her substitute.
As for the lad, we will put his feet in flip stocks.
As for the lad, we will put his hands in hand stocks, we will put his neck in neck stocks.
They tie his hands and pull his clothing over his head.
As in the end of the previous story, Damuzi cries out to Utu for help.
Oh Utu, I am your friend, I am a youth, do you recognize me?
Your sister, whom I married, descended to the underworld.
As she descended to the underworld, it was me that she was to hand over to the underworld
as a substitute.
Oh Utu, you are a just judge, don't disappoint me.
Change my hands, alter my appearance, so that I might escape the clutches of my demons.
Don't let them seize me, like a sankal snake that slithers across the meadows and mountains.
Let me escape alive to the dwelling of my sister Geshtiana.
The sun god Utu hears his prayer.
He changed his hands, he altered his appearance.
Damuzi escapes the grasp of the demons and makes it to his sister's house.
Seeing her brother, she cries out in lament.
Oh my brother, oh my brother, lad who has not fulfilled those days.
Oh my brother, shepherd Amo Oshungalana, lad who has not fulfilled those days and years.
Oh my brother, lad who has no wife, who has no children.
Oh my brother, lad who has no friend, who has no companion.
Oh my brother, the lad who is not a comfort to his mother.
Meanwhile the demons have been searching everywhere for Damuzi.
Eventually they surmise that they might be able to deduce where Damuzi is hiding.
The small demons say to the big demons, demons have no mother, they have no father or mother,
sister or brother, wife or children.
When we're established on heaven and earth, you demons were there at a man's side like
a reading closure.
Demons are never kind, they do not know good from evil.
Who has ever seen a man without a family all alone escape with his life?
We shall go neither to the dwelling of his friends nor to the dwelling of his in-laws.
Rather, for the shepherd, let us go to the dwelling of Geshtiana.
The demons realize that Damuzi will naturally seek out his sister.
Rather than going to his friends or in-laws, they quickly make their way to the home of
Geshtiana and demand that she reveal where she is hiding him.
Show us where your brother is, they said to her, but she spoke not a word to them.
They scratched her face, but she spoke not a word to them.
They poured tar in her lap, but she spoke not a word to them, so they could not find
Damuzi at the house of Geshtiana.
Undeterred, the demons realize that Damuzi would likely go back to the place where he
is most comfortable.
The small demons said to the big demons, come on, let's go to the Holy Sheepfold.
There at the Holy Sheepfold, they caught Damuzi.
They showed him no mercy.
The axe was wielded against the lad who had no family.
They sharpened their daggers, they smashed his hut.
As Damuzi was taken away, his sister wailed for her brother, wandering around mourning
his loss.
Damuzi's dream.
The final Sumerian story that describes the capture of Damuzi and his descent into the
netherworld is Damuzi's dream.
The story opens with Damuzi roaming the countryside, sobbing uncontrollably.
Grieve, grieve, O countryside grieve, O countryside grieve, O marshes cry out, O crabs of the
river grieve, O frogs of the river cry out, My mother will call to me, my mother, my
dutour will call to me, My mother will call to me for five things, my mother will call
to me for ten things.
If she does not know the day when I am dead, you, O countryside, can inform my mother who
bore me.
Like my little sister, may you weep for me.
As was common during this time, people would receive information about the future from
the gods through dreams.
Damuzi was no exception.
When in ancient times the shepherd lay down, he lay down to a dream.
He woke up, it was a dream, he shivered, it was sleep.
He rubbed his eyes, he was terrified.
He called for his sister, Geshtiana, to come and interpret the dream for him.
When she arrived, Damuzi recounted in great detail the terrifying dream that he had dreamt.
A dream, my sister, a dream.
In my dream, rushes were rising up for me.
Rushes kept growing for me.
A single reed was shaking its head at me.
Twin reeds, one was being separated from me.
Tall trees in the forest were rising up together over me.
It was poured over my holy coals for me.
The cover of my holy churn was removed.
My holy drinking cup was torn down from the peg where it hung.
My shepherd's stick disappeared from me.
An owl took a lamb from the sheep house.
A falcon caught a sparrow on the reed fence.
My male goats were dragging their dark beards in the dust for me.
My rams were scratching the earth with their thick legs for me.
The churns were lying on their sides, no milk was being poured.
The drinking cups were lying on their sides.
Damuzi was dead.
The sheep vault was haunted.
Let's break down this dream so that we can have a good understanding of the images that
Damuzi is describing.
1.
He sees rushes growing, quote, for him.
2.
A single reed shaking its head at him.
3.
Twin reeds being separated from one another.
4.
Tall trees rising up over him.
5.
A bear being poured out on his coals.
6.
The cover of his butter churn being removed.
7.
His drinking cup pulled off of the peg in the wall where it normally was hung.
8.
His shepherd's stick gone missing.
9.
An owl taking a lamb from the sheepfold.
10.
A falcon catching a sparrow on the reed fence.
11.
Male goats dragging their beards in the dust.
12.
Some scratching the ground.
13.
His butter churns lying on their sides with no milk in them.
14.
The drinking cups empty on their sides.
15.
Damuzi dead.
16.
His sheepfold empty.
As you can imagine, none of this bodes well for Damuzi.
Geshtiana interprets the dream for him.
My brother, your dream is not favourable, don't tell me any more of it.
Damuzi, your dream is not favourable, don't tell me any more of it.
The rushes rising up for you, which kept growing for you, are bandits rising against
you from their ambush.
The single reed shaking its head at you is your mother who bore you, shaking her head
for you.
The twin reeds of which one was being separated from you is you and I. One will be separated
from you.
The tall trees in the forest rising up together over you are the evil men catching you within
the walls.
That water was poured over your holy coals means the sheepfold will become a house of
silence.
That the cover of your holy churn was removed for you means the evil man will bring it inside
in his hands.
Your holy drinking cup torn down from the peg where it hung is you falling off the lap
of the mother who bore you.
That your shepherd stick disappeared from you means the demons will set fire to it.
The owl taking a lamb from the sheep house is the evil man who will hit you on the cheek.
The falcon catching a sparrow on the reed fence is the big demon coming down from the
sheep house.
That the churns were lying on their sides, no milk was being poured, the drinking cups
were lying on their sides.
That Damuzi was dead and the sheepfold was haunted means your hands will be bound in
handcuffs, your arms will be bound in fetters.
That your male goats were dragging their dark beards in the dust for you means that my hair
will whirl around in the air like a hurricane for you.
That your rams were scratching the earth with their thick legs for you means that I shall
lacerate my cheeks with my fingernails for you as if with a boxwood needle.
It was absolutely an ominous dream Damuzi's sacred place, the sheepfold where he cared
for his flock and churned butter and provided milk was to be deserted.
Damuzi was going to be bound and taken to the netherworld by the demons that were going
to rise up against him.
As soon as Geshtiana finished relaying the bad news, Damuzi begs her to go up to a high
spot and do two things for him, first he wants her to mourn for him.
Sister, when you go up onto the mound, do not go up onto the mounds like an ordinary person,
lacerate your heart and your liver, lacerate your clothes and your crotch, sister, and
then go up onto the mound.
Second he instructs her to be a lookout for him as he knew the demons were coming for
him.
Amageshtanana went up onto the mound and looked around, Geshtanana craned her neck, her girlfriend
Geshtindudu advised her, the big men who bind the neck are already coming for him, they
are coming for him.
Geshtiana warns her brother,
My brother your demons are coming for you, duck down your head in the grass.
Damuzi runs to hide in the grass and begs his sister, not to reveal his hiding place
to the demons, he then turns to his friend and similarly begs them not to tell the demons
where he is, both agree to keep the secret.
Those who come for the king are a motley crew, who know not food, who know not drink, who
eat no sprinkled flour, who drink no poured water, who accept no pleasant gifts, who do
not enjoy a wife's embraces, who never kiss dear little children, who never chew sharp
tasting garlic, who eat no fish, who eat no leeks.
The demons then arrive and demand to know where Damuzi is hiding, they first interrogate
his sister.
They caught Geshtanana at the sheepfold in Kaupen, they offered her a river of water
but she wouldn't accept it.
They offered her a field of grain, but she wouldn't accept it.
As in the other stories, Geshtiana wasn't going to turn on her brother, realizing this,
the demons then turn to the friend.
Who, since the most ancient times, has ever known a sister to reveal her brother's whereabouts?
Come, let us go to his friend.
Then they offered his friend a river of water and he accepted it, they offered him a field
of grain and he accepted it.
My friend ducked down his head in the grass, thus I don't know his whereabouts.
Damuzi had been betrayed.
They caught Damuzi in the ditches of Aurelie, Damuzi began to weep and was tears-stricken.
In the city my sister saved my life, but my friend caused my death.
His hands were bound in handcuffs, his arms were bound in fetters, the lad raised his
hands heavenward to Utu, Utu you are my brother-in-law, I am your sister's husband, I am he who
carries food to Ayana, I am he who brought the wedding gifts to Uruk, I am he who kisses
the holy lips, I am he who dances on the holy knees, the knees of Anana.
Please change my hands into gazelle hands, change my feet into gazelle feet so I can
evade my demons.
Utu answers his prayer, changing Damuzi and he is able to escape.
After chasing and catching him again, Utu aids his escape once more.
She then flees to the home of Old Woman Belili.
Old Woman, I am not just a man, I am the husband of a goddess.
Would you pour water, please, so I can drink water?
Would you sprinkle flour, please, so I can eat flour?
She feeds Damuzi and leaves the house where the demons spot her.
Her fear tips them off that she knows where Damuzi is hiding and they again capture him
in Belili's house.
Once again, Utu aids his escape and he makes it to a sister's sheepfold.
When the first demon entered the sheepfold in Kaupen, he set fire to the bolt.
When the second entered the sheepfold in Kaupen, he set fire to the shepherd's stick.
When the third entered the sheepfold in Kaupen, he removed the cover of the holy churn.
When the fourth entered the sheepfold in Kaupen, he tore down the drinking cup from the peg
where it hung.
When the fifth entered the sheepfold in Kaupen, the churns lay on their sides.
No milk was poured, the drinking cups lay on their sides.
Damuzi was dead.
The sheepfold haunted.
The demons had accomplished their mission, bringing to pass all that Damuzi had dreamed.
And that wraps up our look at the pivotal Sumerian myths of Inana and Damuzi.
These stories give us a fascinating glimpse into the beliefs and perspectives of the ancient
Sumerians.
Inana's journey to the underworld shows her power and cunning as she cleverly maneuvers
to return from the land of the dead.
The tragic tale of Damuzi reveals a more human side to the gods centered around love, loss,
and loyalty.
In Damuzi's eventual rebirth, pre-figures later dying and rising deity cults.
The themes and symbolism in these myths would go on to influence cultures across the Middle
East and Mediterranean for millennia.
We see echoes of Inana and Damuzi in the later myths of Ishtar and Tamuz, Aphrodite
and Adonis, Sibley and Addis, that archetypes the fertile goddess and her doomed consort
appear again and again.
I hope this overview has provided insights into these seminal tales and the rich mythology
of ancient Sumer.
Let me know in the comments if you'd like to see more analysis of ancient myths and
legends from around the world.
Don't forget to like, share, and subscribe for more explorations of mythology and religion.
Thanks so much for watching and never forget, we are MythVision.
