Ladies and gentlemen, here is a debate between Dr. Dennis R. McDonald and Dr. Michael Lacona.
The resurrection. Did Jesus rise from the dead? And it takes a deep dive. Things get a little
more heated throughout the debate. But I hope you guys check it out. Check out both of the
gentleman's works. And in the future, who knows, I might be able to interview Dr. Michael Lacona
on my channel and discuss some of the things that convinces him and what makes me not convinced,
etc. I would look forward to something like that. So enjoy the debate. Here's the full debate.
I had to cut out the very beginning beginning where the audio wasn't working well and there
was these issues. So we get kind of right to the start of when they're being introduced
and going from there. Thank you. Good evening. I have a very simple job tonight. My job is to
introduce the speakers and then to moderate their conversation. I love Craig's term agreeable
disagreement because agreeable disagreement really is part of the academic life. So this is not a
debate like many of you perhaps think of debates, presidential debates on television. So I'm not
sitting out here staring at the presenters, cutting them off, yelling questions at them and all those
types of things. What will happen tonight is each of our speakers gets 20 minutes to kind of talk
about their position and then when they're done they get 12 minutes to rebut the position of the
other one and then when they're done with their rebuttals they get 10 minutes to ask questions
of the other. At the end of that we'll have a period of about 25 minutes for you to ask questions.
So it really is a conversation. So we're very fortunate tonight to have two colleagues, two
friends, two really outstanding scholars who will enter into this conversation with one another
and with us. I won't read their entire background on the back of the program but it's there for you
to learn more about them. It's there for you to learn how you can maybe buy a copy of one of their
books but I would tell you that we have with us Dr. Michael Akona, associate professor of theology
at Houston Baptist University, president of Risen Jesus Incorporated. He has a PhD in New
Testament studies from the University of Pretoria, the author of numerous books probably most famously
the case for the resurrection. Mike is a member of the prestigious society for New Testament studies
and he has spoken on more than 100 university campuses and appeared on dozens of radio and
television programs. Dr. Dennis McDonald has a PhD from Harvard University. He's taught New Testament
and Christian origins at Goshen College, the Eilish School of Theology and the Claremont School
of Theology. His scholarship has been devoted to the Christian apocryphal writings, the synoptic
problem and the influence of classical Greek literature. And I have to tell you that he has
a new book coming out from Roman and Littlefield called From Greek Mythology to the Gospels,
How Jesus Became an Epic Hero and how can one not want to read a book in which Jesus is referred
to as an epic hero. So again, my job is relatively easy. From time to time you may see me stand up
and gently nudge people to come to the conclusion of their comments but this is not a debate like
you see on television. This really is a conversation among scholars, an agreeable disagreement. So
thank you for participating tonight and I believe Dr. Lacona was going to go first.
Thank you and good evening everyone. Well this month, 50 years ago, the former beatle John Lennon
and his wife Yoko Ono, they published the song Imagine. Now this would be the number one hit
of Lennon's solo career. The music to imagine is pleasant to the ear. The lyrics? Well let's take a
look at them. Oh this is being moody on me again. There we go. Imagine there's no heaven. It's easy
if you try. No hell below us, above us, only sky. Imagine all the people living for today.
So give up the idea, they're saying, give up the idea of heaven. Give up the idea of God. He's not
there. Above us is only sky and live for this life only. They go on. Imagine there's no countries.
It isn't hard to do. Nothing to kill or die for and no religion too. Imagine all the people living
life in peace. So give up your worldview. Give up your preferred ways of being governed.
And we can all live together in peace. Republicans and Democrats, can you believe that? And then you'd
also have capitalist, communist, even the Taliban and al-Qaeda. We can all live together in peace.
You may say I'm a dreamer, but I'm not the only one. I hope someday you'll join us
and the world will be as one. These lyrics, naive as they are, were meant to persuade
as Lenin himself acknowledged in an interview, he said. The song is anti-religious, anti-nationalistic,
anti-conventional, anti-capitalistic, but because it is sugar-coated, it is accepted.
Now I know what you have to do. Put your political message across with a little honey.
Now what I would like to do in the next few moments, I'd like to take up this challenge
given by Lenin and his wife, and I'd like to imagine this kind of a scenario that God doesn't
exist, live your life only for today. And I'd like to just take a moment and address the female
students here. Now you're probably enjoying your experience here at Washburn. You're getting a
decent education. You're making a lot of friends. Some of them are going to be lifelong friends.
Perhaps you've even fallen in love. There's someone you want to spend the rest of your life with
and you're planning on doing so, and you're looking forward to your career. So things are
looking really good for you. And so one afternoon before dinner, you decide to take a jog. As you're
going along, a van pulls up beside you. Two guys get out, grab you, throw you in the van, and drive
you to a warehouse in Kansas City where you are raped and assigned as a sex slave. All of your
plans, your dreams, your hopes are forever gone. From this hour on, your sole purpose in life will
be to satisfy the sexual lusts of others. Now hopefully this doesn't happen to any of you in
here, of course. Unfortunately, there are many women and children in the world today, yes, even
here in the United States, who are presently living this nightmare at this very moment.
If God does not exist, then there is no one who will ultimately hear their cries. There is no one
who will ultimately set things right and bring the evildoers to justice. I think about people who
have sacrificed their lives, their limbs, their freedoms, the comforts of life to help others,
people like Mother Teresa. If God does not exist, then goodness will be unrewarded.
I think about death. Two and a half years ago, our family put our beloved dog down.
Any of you who have had pets, you know, and those pets have died, you know exactly
how we felt at that point. We loved that dog, and she loved us. But she got old, 16 and a half years,
and she got sick, and she didn't want to eat any longer. So we took her to the vets,
and we're all there in the room, the whole family, and I was holding the dog in my hands,
and the vet came up and put something in her that caused her to go to sleep,
and then put something else in her that caused her heart to stop, and then he put a stethoscope
on her and listened, and he said, she's gone. And all of us in the room were weeping. Now I'd
lost my parents a few years before that, and I grieved over them. But as a follower of Jesus,
I had the confidence from the promise of Jesus that I'm going to see them again someday.
He didn't give such a promise when it came to our pets. That's not to say we're not going to see
our pets, but there's no promise, no real hope. So there I'm holding my dog, and I'm thinking just
60 seconds ago, she was alive. We loved her, and now she may never exist again. The breath of life
is gone, extinguished, perhaps for eternity. And it was a crushing weight. And I got thinking,
if that's the way it is for a pet, how much more it is when you lose a loved one, a spouse that
you've been married to for 50 years, or a parent, or a sibling, or a child. If God does not exist,
then injustices go unanswered. Goodness will be unrewarded, and death is final. To imagine such
is a horrifying thing. I sincerely hope it is false. But there is another way to look at things.
It goes like this. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth,
and God loved the world so much that he gave his only son, that everyone who believes in him
will not perish, but will have eternal life. Now that's really good news, if it's true.
But imagining that it's true will not move at one inch closer to being true. And the same
thing can be said of the atheist view. And that's why evidence is important. Evidence. We want to
look for that. And so what I want to do in the next few moments, I want to start off by looking at
an early proclamation of the Christians. One of the earliest proclamations of the Christians,
and this is something virtually 100% of all scholars agree on, no matter whether they're
how skeptical they are. They agree that the earliest Christians said, God had raised Jesus
from the dead. And so I want to spend a little time looking at this, and I want to address
four key questions related to this early proclamation that God raised Jesus from the dead.
Number one, how do we know? How do we know the earliest Christians were making this claim?
Well, that's a pretty easy to answer. Let's look at a little timeline here, and we can see that
most scholars believe that Jesus was crucified and died in either April of 30 or April of 33.
It doesn't matter which one, one of those two. They also agree that the Gospels were written
somewhere between the years 65 and 95, or approximately 35 to 65 years after Jesus' death.
Now, some scholars, like Dennis, will place one or more of the Gospels a little bit later.
Some scholars will place one or more of the Gospels a little bit earlier than that,
but by far the majority of critical scholars today put them at these dates.
But I don't want to focus on the Gospels tonight. I want to do something a little different.
I want to focus on the period of time that occurred between when Jesus died
and when the Gospels were written, because there's a lot that goes on in that period.
We begin with a guy named Paul, and Paul was a skeptic who persecuted the church,
and in the midst of doing so, he had an experience that he believed was an
appearance of the risen Jesus to him. By the way, Dennis, are you hearing me correctly?
Because I know when I was sitting here, it was really hard for me.
Okay, good deal. So in the midst of Paul persecuting Christians,
he had an experience that he interpreted as an appearance of the risen Jesus to him,
and that experience radically transformed his life from being a persecutor of the church
to one of its most able defenders. Paul became probably the number one Christian missionary
of all time. Later on, he wrote some letters, somewhere between the years critical scholars
think, probably between the years 49 and 64. In one of those letters, Galatians, his letter
to the church at Galatia, he said that three years after his conversion, he went up to Jerusalem,
and he spent 15 days with Peter, the lead apostle and one of Jesus' closest disciples.
He said he also saw James, the brother of Jesus at that time.
Paul then says that 14 years after that, he went up to Jerusalem again, and this time he met with
Peter again, James again, and another one, John, who was another one of Jesus' closest disciples.
He called them the pillars of the church, and he said his reason for going up this time was he
wanted to run the gospel message past him to ensure he was on message with what they were preaching.
And he said that they certified what he was preaching, was what they were preaching. In
other words, he said, they added nothing to my message. They extended the right hand of fellowship.
It's like, you're good, Paul. Keep up the good work, buddy. Fist bump.
So Paul's saying he's preaching the same thing as the Jerusalem apostles are. Now,
you may have been telling the truth, you may not have been. So as historians, we look for
corroborating sources, and we have some. I can only go over a few little things briefly,
but one of those is a guy named Clement, Clement of Rome, and he wrote a letter to the church,
the church in Corinth. He did this in the first century, and in there, he places Paul on par with
his mentor Peter and refers to Paul as the Blessed Paul. And then you got a guy named Polycarp.
Now, some of you are going to get married someday. You're going to have kids.
Some of you are going to have boys. You're going to look at names. Just remember some of these,
like Polycarp. Okay. Polycarp is believed to have been a disciple of the apostle John,
Clement of Rome, a disciple of the apostle Peter. Polycarp wrote a letter to the church at Philippi,
and in that letter, he says that Paul accurately and reliably taught the message of truth.
And then he goes on and he quotes from one of Paul's letters and refers to it as sacred scripture.
Wow. Not the kind of things you say about Paul if Paul had been teaching something radically
different from your mentors, Peter and John, but precisely the kind of things we could anticipate
they would say if Paul had been telling the truth that he was on message with what the
Jerusalem apostles were preaching. Now, of course, this doesn't mean that everything that
Paul taught was exactly what they taught. However, it does give us great confidence
that when we're at least talking about the gospel message, that is the basic message of
Christianity at that time, when we're talking about the gospel message, when we hear Paul on it,
we are likewise hearing the voice of the Jerusalem apostles.
Now, wouldn't it be cool if we found a lost letter of Paul, some archaeologist found a lost letter
of Paul and said, and in that letter, it says, I want to remind you of the gospel message I
preached to you. And then he gave it. I mean, it's like that would be gold, historical gold,
because we'd know what they were proclaiming. We wouldn't even need the gospels and we'd have the
basics of the Christian message of what Jesus' disciples were preaching.
Well, guess what? We don't need a lost letter of Paul. We have such a letter in our New Testament.
It's one of Paul's undisputed letters, its first Corinthians, written somewhere between the years
53 and 57, probably. And in chapter 15, verse one, Paul says, I want to remind you of the gospel
message I preached to you. And now he's going to give us an outline of that message. He says,
I delivered to you what I also received. Now, here he is writing somewhere between 53 and 57.
He says, I delivered to you when, well, most scholars think around the year 51 when he established
the first Baptist church of Corinth. And that's when he delivered it to him and he received it
before then from the apostles. So I delivered to you what I also received, that Christ died for
our sins according to the Scriptures and that he was buried and that he was raised on the third day
according to the Scriptures and that he appeared. And then he lists some of the appearances to Peter,
to the 12, to more than 500, to James, to all of the apostles. And then Paul adds his own name to
the list. So here we've got, we know what the apostles, those who would actually follow Jesus
had known them. We know what they're proclaiming shortly after his death. Jesus' death, burial,
resurrection, and the appearances to individuals, to groups, to friend and foe alike. And Paul goes on
to say, same chapter, whether I or they, that is the other apostles, this is what we preached
and this is what you believed. So how do we know that they were proclaiming God had raised Jesus
from the dead? There you go. You got an apostle who was an eyewitness, claims to be an eyewitness
himself. He knew the other apostles and we know that they certified that his gospel message
was the same as theirs and that gospel message included the resurrection and appearances of Jesus.
Question number two, what do they mean by resurrection? Do they just mean some sort of
metaphor that Jesus' teaching still live on today even though he's dead? Well here Paul's going to
address this further in 1 Corinthians chapter 15. He's addressing some questions that Corinthians
are asking him and it seems by their questions that there are some people in Corinth who are
saying to the Christians, look, you Christians and many Jews believe in what's called the general
resurrection, that God's going to come back, he's going to raise everyone who ever existed back to
life and he's going to judge everyone and the righteous are going to get eternal life. Let me
tell you, there is no such thing as a general resurrection. When you die, that's it. Above us
is only sky, so imagine there's no heaven and live for today. And so they're writing to Paul and
they're saying, look Paul, we believe in a general resurrection but what's it going to be like? I mean,
now we're thinking are we going to get our bodies back? What's it going to be like? And so Paul's
going to answer those questions in this chapter. I'm only going to touch on those things that relate
directly to what we're discussing this evening. Paul is relating our resurrection to the resurrection
of Jesus and he's saying, yes, there's a general resurrection. In fact, it's already begun with
the resurrection of Jesus. It's two parts. First, him and then we're going to be raised when he
returns. So these are inextricably linked. If Jesus didn't rise from the dead, we're not going to be
raised from the dead. So Paul says this, if the dead are not raised, then Christ was not raised
and if Christ was not raised, your faith is worthless. You are still in your sins,
then also those who have died in Christ have perished. Then he says, if I fought wild beast
and Ephesus with no more than human hopes, what have I gained? If the dead are not raised,
let us eat and drink for tomorrow we die. If there is no afterlife, if this life is all there is,
then get everything out of it you can. Get all the sex you can, get all the weed you can,
cheat on your test if you can get away with it. Because there's no one to be accountable to
ultimately. It's just you. Live your life for today and enjoy it as much as you can. But Paul goes
on and he says, but Christ has been raised, therefore we will be raised, therefore the
Christian life is worth living, even if it involves persecution. That argument by Paul makes no sense
whatsoever unless they truly meant that this man Jesus had been dead and he had been alive walking
around he's still alive. That's what they meant by resurrection. Number three, is it true? Well,
historians look for, they take the evidence or facts, noble facts and they formulate hypotheses
to see which one best accounts for the data and the one that best accounts for them is what
regarded as what probably occurred. So let's look at a few things. Number one, Jesus' disciples
taught he was raised from the dead. We saw that. That means it wasn't a legend that developed over
time because we can trace it back to the original disciples of Jesus. We also know it probably
wasn't a lie because we've got at least a dozen ancient sources that report that these same disciples
were willing to suffer continuously. They were willing to die for their gospel proclamation and
we know at least some of them did as martyrs. Of course that doesn't mean that what they believed
was true because we know that people of other religious beliefs and worldviews are willing
to suffer and die for those views. But it does show that they sincerely believed what they were
proclaiming is true. Liars make poor martyrs. So the disciples were not only proclaimed that
Jesus rose and had appeared to them, they actually believed it. Third, second, Jesus' disciples taught
he appeared to individuals and groups. What suggests it probably wasn't hallucinations.
Multiple studies over the years, more than a century, have shown that only about 7% of those
who, believing the loss of a loved one, experience a visual hallucination. Moreover, Paul, and you
got 100% of the disciples claiming they saw him, and then you got Paul. He believed Jesus was a
failed prophet and a false messiah. And so Jesus would have been the last person in the universe
Paul would have expected to see or wanted to see. He wasn't grieving. Third, Jesus' disciples
intended for us to interpret the resurrection as an actual event. So it wasn't a metaphor.
Now there's other alternative explanations I could bring up. I don't have time for that. What I can
say is when you subject hypotheses to strictly controlled historical method, you find that the
resurrection hypothesis is not only the best explanation for the data, it is the only explanation
that can account for it adequately. Third and final question, does it matter? Absolutely it
matters. Truth matters. And if Jesus rose from the dead, if Jesus rose from the dead, it means that
Christianity is probably true. And that means that God loves you. And it means that you have great
value, not because of anything you've ever accomplished or will accomplish, but because you've
been made in God's image. It also means that injustices will be answered, goodness will be
rewarded, and death is not final. That's a good thing indeed. Thank you.
I'm a historian. I'm not a theologian. I'm not a preacher. And my goal is the same
as Dr. Lincoln. I want to deal with the evidence and I want to deal with it as a historian.
And then I'm going to make some conclusions that answers the question, why did early Christians,
what did they mean when they said God raised Jesus? By the way, the language in the New Testament is
almost always consistent that Jesus did not rise from the dead. God raised Jesus from the dead.
Jesus is a passive. He's passive. It is God who's the agent. Now I want to deal. This is the text
that Professor Lincoln mentioned. And that's why I won't deal with it again, except to say
what the Corinthians meant by it is that the soul of Jesus was seen being liberated from his body.
There is no resurrection from the dead, but they apparently did believe that Jesus was seen.
But what's more important is that Paul did not believe it was a bodily resurrection,
a physical bodily resurrection. For him, it was a spiritual body. And he insists that flesh and
blood cannot enter the kingdom of God. And I'll run over this. I agree with my colleague on that.
But the point is neither the Corinthians nor Paul interpreted the tradition cited in 1 Corinthians
15-3-8 to mean that God raised Jesus's physical body. Got that? The Corinthians thought it was
Jesus's soul liberated from the body, and Paul thought it was a spiritual body.
My argument this evening is going to be in these bullet points. I'm going to be interested in
whether the gospel accounts of Jesus's resurrection, he conforms to what we find in Paul, and we're
going to find that it doesn't at all. The two earliest Gospels explicitly rejected the view
that Jesus appeared to anyone after his death. That's the Q document and Mark.
The Gospel of Matthew altered Mark by adding an appearance to the 11, not to the 12 disciples
in Galilee. Luke added extensive narratives of Jesus's corporeal appearances in Jerusalem,
but not Galilee, as is in Matthew. And he created his stories by imitating the last book of the Odyssey.
John crafted stories of appearances to the Magdalene and doubting Thomas by imitating Luke's
imitation. The Gospels then call into question the historical reliability of the tradition
1 Corinthians 15-3-8. So what? One should read the Gospel resurrection narratives not as collaborating
historical reports, but as creative literary fictions to make God's vindication of Jesus's
message and career meaningful to later diverse social and political challenges.
This is the Lost Gospel Q, which I have attempted and others have attempted to recreate.
Many of you may be Q skeptics, but you'll hear in what I'm going to read
words that appear also in Matthew and Luke. Jesus says, Oh, Jerusalem, Jerusalem,
who kills the prophets and stones those sent to her. Look, your house is forsaken. I tell you,
you will not see me until the time comes when you say, blessed is the one who comes in the name of
the Lord. That's Jesus's return victorious. You will not see me. Then the Gospel of Mark.
The earliest surviving Gospel is the one attributed to Mark written soon after the Jewish war.
In Mark's account, when three women entered Jesus's tomb, they saw a young man sitting inside
and the youth told them, you seek Jesus of Nazareth who is crucified. He was raised. Notice God is
the agent. Go and tell his disciples and Peter. He is going before you into Galilee. There you
will see him just as he told you. And they left and fled from the tomb for trembling and confusion
had seized them, but they said nothing to anyone for they were afraid. In other words, the disciples
never saw Jesus. They never got word to go to Galilee. And the way that the reason is that
Mark wanted, if there was an appearance of the risen Jesus to the disciples, he should have told
them to get out of Jerusalem before the war. That would have saved them from carnage, but blame
the women. They didn't tell and therefore the Jerusalem church suffered in Jerusalem. Mark is
insistent that the women never told and the disciples never saw Jesus in Galilee. Rather,
they suffered. This is historical rock ribbed information. I'm not making this up. Take a look
at the text of your New Testament. In the Gospel of Matthew, Jesus appears to 11 disciples in Galilee
and he clearly is correcting Mark. So here's what Mark wrote. They left and fled. These are the women
from the tomb for trembling and confusion, sorry, had seized them. They said nothing to anyone for
they were afraid. But Matthew corrects it. They left the tomb quickly with fear and great joy
and ran to tell his disciples. And Jesus then appears to them and repeats the message and they
do go, the disciples do go to Galilee and receive the great commission. None of this, in my view,
has historical value, except to tell us about Matthew's church.
I want to introduce to you, oh, I'm sorry, I missed the flag. In Paul's two volume work,
we find him disagreeing with Paul. Paul in 1 Corinthians 15 says flesh and blood cannot
enter the kingdom of God. Jesus's body is a spiritual body. But in Luke, Jesus himself says,
handle me and look, a mere spirit does not have flesh and bones as you see that I have,
and he actually ate. He lived with the disciples for 40 days in Jerusalem and then had a bodily
ascension. Luke and Paul disagree. And that's all the more amazing because Luke knows 1 Corinthians,
apparently, and he never says anything about the appearance to 500. I think he was skeptical of it.
What I want to spend most of my time on is, however, Mims's criticism. And here's my own
dactylic examiner in imitation of Homer. Gospel texts seldom retain memories of actual events.
More often than not, they contain mimesis of seminal texts. Mimesis is simply the Greek word for
imitation. And the book that was most imitated in classical antiquity was the Homeric epic,
the Iliad and the Odyssey. And people learned in school how to compose by taking themes in Homer
and rewriting them in prose. So I'm sorry, I'm going the wrong direction here.
I'm going to tell you the story of Odysseus coming back after 20 years and introducing himself to his
father. I will test my father whether he will recognize me with his eyes or not recognize me
because I was gone for so long. He found his father alone in his well tended orchard. Old man,
who slave are you? His father responded to him, shedding tears. Stranger, you have indeed arrived
at the land about which you asked, but insolent and wicked men now have it. If you had found him
alive in the land of Ithaca, he then would have reciprocated well with gifts and sent you off with
a good guest gift. Odysseus then says, Father, here I hear and that man whom you seek. He says,
if you are indeed my son Odysseus who has come home, tell me some recognizable sign that I may be
persuaded. In response, crafty Odysseus told him, first consider with your eyes the scar
that a boar gouged with a white tusk, and the knees and dear heart of the airties melted when
he recognized the sure signs that Odysseus showed him. Then Odysseus says, let's go to your home
that sits beside the orchard. Earlier I sent Telemachus, the cattlemen and the swine herd there,
so that they might quickly prepare a dinner. Thus converse the two of them and they went off
to the good house. Now to save time, I'm going to read the parallels only in the right hand column
in Luke, because we've already done a survey of the story in the Odyssey, but you're going to see
the similarities. So I'd like your eyes to follow the left hand column and your ears to follow the
right. Jesus died but returned to Jerusalem alive. Jesus met two disciples on the road outside the
city, but their eyes were kept from recognizing him. Same words in Greek. The disciples were sad as
they walked. The sojourner Jesus in disguise asked questions. Cleopas mourned the death of his Lord
and the violence of the Jewish authorities. The risen Jesus spoke to the men about himself in the
third person, but they still did not recognize him. Jesus revealed his identity by breaking bread with
them. Their eyes were open and they recognized him. Again the same words. They rose up and returned
to Jerusalem and they found the 11 gathered there. They had already broiled the fish. Jesus told his
disciples to look at the wounds on his hands and feet. It is I myself. Same words in Greek. At the
meal the disciples were terrified, but Jesus comforted them. Now here are the criteria of
mimesis criticism that allows one to identify parallels between two texts. The first is
accessibility, the likelihood that an author of a later text had access to the proposed model.
Analogy determines if other authors imitated the same model. The more models one can posit
between two texts, the stronger the case that they issue from a literary connection.
Order examines the relative sequencing of similarities in two works. A distinctive trait is
anything unusual in both the targeted model and the proposed borrower. Interpretability asks what
might be gained by viewing one text as a debtor to another. In parallel satisfy ancient recognition
if one can show that ancient readers noted the similarities. The Gospel of John, the stories
of the Magdalene and doubting Thomas are imitations of Luke which had been imitations of the Odyssey.
So in Luke Jesus died but returned alive. In John Jesus died but returned alive.
Two disciples traveled outside Jerusalem. Mary Magdalene was alone at the garden town.
Mary Magdalene and two other women did not find the body of the Lord Jesus. Mary Magdalene stooped
into the tomb and did not find the body of Jesus. Suddenly two men later called angels in radiant
clothing stood before them. Instead she saw two angels in white garments sitting there.
And then I'll just read the right hand columns. Again your eyes can be on the left. The angel said
to her woman why are you weeping? She wept over the crucifixion of her Lord. Mary they have removed
my Lord and I do not know where they placed him. Once she had said this she turned around and saw
Jesus standing there and did not know that it was Jesus. Jesus said to her woman why are you weeping?
Whom do you seek? She still doesn't recognize him. She's supposing, same word in Greek,
that she was a gardener said to him sir if you have carried him off tell me where you have placed
him. Jesus said to her Mary on turning she told him in Hebrew Rabbuni she now recognized her teacher.
Jesus said to her do not touch me for I have not yet ascended to the Father whereas in Luke Jesus
says handle me and look. Mary Magdalene went to tell the disciples I have seen the Lord
and that he had said these things to her. I'll skip over Euripides, no I'll read it. In Euripides
Penteas's mother has beheaded him in madness and didn't really recognize that she had done so
and when she comes back to her senses she asks where is the body of my son and she uses the same
word for where have you placed him. So whereas Agave was horrified Mary was jubilant and then
doubting Thomas in the Luke column is in the left I'll read the right. Jesus stood in their midst
and said to them peace be to you, peace to you and having said this he showed them his hands inside
so the disciples rejoiced when they saw the Lord. So little historical confirmation in the
Gospels for the Pauline tradition. The Corinthians interpreted one Corinthians 15 five to eight
and his appearance to the twelve as proof that Jesus's psyche his soul had successfully escaped
his Soma his body. Paul insisted that Jesus's spiritual body was raised not one with flesh and
blood. Hughes Jesus says that after his death no one will see him before he returns victorious.
I remember this is all in the Bible right I'm just I'm just giving you the evidence.
Mark denies the 11 disciples an encounter with their risen Lord.
Matthew in Matthew the 11 not the 12 go to Galilee and see their Lord even though some of them remain
skeptical. The Luke and evangelists insist that the 11 lived with the risen Jesus for 40 days in
Jerusalem before he ascended with the physical body to heaven. His accounts of the appearance on
the road to Emmaus and the revelation of Jesus's wounds are not based on historical memory but on
the last book of Homer's Odyssey. The Gospel of John crafted its appearances to the Magdalene
and doubting Thomas after Jesus's appearance in the last chapter of Luke. No reliable historical
information here. Here's my conclusion. Jesus had to finally denounce the religious and political
elites who oppressed the social marginal. As a result of his success as a social radical
he suffered an ignominious crucifixion. His followers could not imagine that his God would
allow his death to terminate his mission or legacy and they all in various ways affirmed
that God vindicated Jesus and his career so his mission could be continued.
But no one would have been more shocked that Jesus rose from the dead than he. Thank you.
Okay so I'm on so remember now what happens next is each of our speakers will offer a
bottle to the other after which they'll ask each other questions for 10 minutes. So
well thank you Dennis. In my opening statement I contended that shortly after Jesus' death
a number of his followers had experiences they were convinced were appearances of the risen
Jesus to them. They had also claimed that these experiences occurred in both individual and in
group settings. There was also a skeptic named Paul who was persecuting the church and he likewise
had an experience he was convinced was an appearance of the risen Jesus to him. I showed how all of
this can be known from sources that predate the gospels. Finally I contended that the resurrection
hypothesis is not only by far the best explanation of these things it is the only explanation that
can account for them adequately. Now Dennis's opening statement he made a couple of assertions.
One of that is that the gospels are almost entirely literary fictions that were created
in order to imitate mimesis, imitate and compete with Greco-Roman fictions especially the Homeric
epics. He also called into question the meaning of resurrection that it didn't mean he was raised
bodily it was raised spiritually. So let's talk about a couple of these things first of all what
was Paul's view of resurrection since whatever his view of it was can be traced back to the
apostles as well. What about was he raised spiritually was he raised spiritually not physically
and here many scholars get 1st Corinthians 15 confused there's he talks about how a body is
sown a natural body and it's raised a spiritual body. The two Greek terms that are used there for
natural is from which we get the term soul for psychology. The other word is from which we
get the word spirit so it's natural or soulish versus spiritual. Now what did those terms mean?
Well I did a study when I was doing my doctoral research and I found I think it was 846 occurrences
of the term Sukkakos in the extant Greek literature from the 8th century BC through the 3rd century
1100 years and you want to know how many times that that term meant something like physical as
the new revised standard version the amplified Bible the Jerusalem Bible and a few other translations
incorrectly render it they render it as it's sown a physical body raised a spiritual body.
Well those 846 occurrences not a single one of them mean physical not a single one in the ancient
literature. What about spiritual? Well it could mean ethereal like an immaterial body as Dennis
wants to interpret it seems but it can also mean spiritual in a little different sense like for
example in chapter 2 in 1 Corinthians 15 same letter Paul says the natural man Sukkakos doesn't
understand the things of the spirit for they are spiritually Pneumatikos spiritually discerned.
So he's not saying contrasting the physical with the spiritual he's saying people who are spiritually
minded here and in the context of 1 Corinthians 15 he's saying look the body that is sown that's
buried is one that is natural in so far as it's animated by our typical organs heart kidneys
lungs liver but it's raised a spiritual body it's one that's that's animated by the Holy Spirit.
Why do we say this? Well number one Paul had some other terms he could have used if he was trying to
compare physical with spiritual he could have used Sukkakos which means physical fleshly okay
but he doesn't use that and he had already used those two terms in 1 Corinthians 9 just a few
chapters earlier so he already had those and used them in that sense. Paul believes in physical
resurrection because Romans 8 11 he said the spirit that that raised Jesus from the dead
will also also give life to your mortal bodies and then in 1 Thessalonians 4 13 through 17 he says
look I don't want you guys to grieve as those who have no hope and then he talks about how Christ
will bring back with him those who belong to Christ the spirit of dead people who were followers and
who were saved who had already died as followers of Jesus and he says then the trumpet will sound
and the dead in Christ will be raised first well wait a minute how are they going to be raised
that they're already coming back with him well it's pretty simple he's bringing back the spirits
back with him and then they're reunited with their corpses which are then resurrected and transformed
into an immortal glorious powerful body that's animated by the Holy Spirit it's a physical
bodily resurrection it's not spiritual in a sense that Jesus was seen as an immaterial being
well what about what about chapter 15 when when Paul says flesh and blood cannot enter the kingdom
of heaven but yet Luke says in Luke 24 Jesus says a spirit doesn't have flesh and bone as you see
that I have this is a confusion of terms as you all come you're a me has said back I think it was
1955 and he's not been refuted and in fact I looked up all the sources myself and found some additional
ones in all the ancient literature whenever you see the term flesh and blood in ancient Jewish
literature it is always a semitism that simply means the mortal body with all of its weaknesses
it's kind of like hey he's a cold-blooded murderer that's a figure of speech it's an idiom it's not
saying that his blood if you took the temperatures below 98.6 flesh and blood was a semitism a figure
of speech it did not literally mean something physical flesh and bone is not the same thing
so there's no contradiction there now he talks about q he says there's no resurrection in q
well guess what there's no death of Jesus in q either but you'd be hard pressed to say that
this q source didn't think of the of the death of Jesus so we gotta say well why was there no
death of Jesus why was there no resurrection in q because q according to virtually all scholars out
there Dennis is an exception but according to most all scholars out there q is a saints literature
when you look at the q material in Matthew and in Luke you find that is just about exclusively
saints teachings of Jesus that's just peppered throughout those gospels there's no narrative
attached to it so what's going on well it could have been notes taken by one of the disciples
while Jesus was alive and therefore there was no death or resurrection neither had occurred
what about no resurrection appearances in mark well that's fairly easy to explain as many scholars
not a majority but as many and many significant scholars think the ending of mark may very well
have been lost when he says they went away and said nothing to no one well what did that mean
well mark uses the same exact phrase in chapter 1 verse 44 Jesus heals a leper and he says go and
show yourself to the high priest and say nothing to no one but what does that mean it means don't
say anything to anyone along the way go directly to the the priest and show yourself to him and
tell him what the Lord has done what mark is probably communicating here is out of fear and
trembling they said nothing to no one along the way they went directly to the apostles and told them
besides Jesus told the disciples that after he died he would go ahead of them to Galilee
and the angel was reminding the women of that now Dennis thinks remember he said that this would
explain why the disciples never saw Jesus the women never told the disciples therefore they
didn't go to Galilee and they missed Jesus but remember in my opening statement I showed how we
can establish with certainty from sources that predate all the gospels we can establish that
Jesus disciples sincerely believed and were proclaiming publicly that Jesus had been resurrected
and had appeared to them so I know in his opening statement he's not there to answer me he's there
to present his own but I'd be really curious to have him answer in the his rebuttal how is it
that we can establish that Jesus disciples are out proclaiming for a few decades before mark is
even written that Jesus rose from the dead and had appeared to them and then mark is saying the women
said nothing to the disciples and that's to explain why the disciples didn't see Jesus how does that
make sense finally he says that the gospels are largely literary fictions intended to
imitate and compete with the Homeric epics
he's not been able to convince many scholars in this and there's some very good reasons
one is that you can find similar details in just about anything
now many of us are aware of a plane that took off from massachusetts early one morning
and just shortly after 9 a.m it flew into one of the tallest skyscrapers in the world in new
york city killing everyone on board now i'm referring to the b25 that flew into the empire
state building on july 28th 1945 yes that actually happened i can understand why you thought i was
thinking of the 767 that flew into the south tower on 9 11 the similarities are so striking
both planes took off from massachusetts both flew into a new york city skyscraper both killed everyone
on board both planes flew into the same floors by the way the 78 to 80 floors and both planes
flew into the buildings during the same hour of the day between 9 and 10 a.m there's no relationship
between them now i suppose a thousand years from now if the lord hasn't returned you can have a
revisionist historian say 9 11 never happened videos and photographs can be fabricated and
look at all the clues that were around 9 11 who do you call when you have an emergency 9 11
what was the emergency u.s. headed economic recession at the time symbolized by the collapse
of the two world trade center towers the plane that crashed into the pentagon symbolized the
declining u.s the declining influence of the u.s government around the world the plane that
crashed into the pennsylvania farm field symbolized that all of this impacted the average american
you see you can suggest similarities and imitation but it's nonsense you've got to show
a causal connection between the two and denise has not been able to do that in any of his work
you've got to show that they were connected now he recognized that this was a problem and he tried
to come up with the seventh criterion that ancient readers recognize similarities between the gospels
and and stories in the Homeric epics but what he doesn't point out is that ancient people recognize
similarities between actual historical events and those in the Homeric epics i could give you
several examples none of it establishes imitation and even if imitation is involved and i think
there are some possibilities in the gospels where imitation may be involved but i think it's no more
than Homeric flavoring you've got Josephus he says this in his writings denis does even Josephus
he says and some jewish scholars like lewis Feldman will say how the fall of Jerusalem Josephus
describes with Homeric flavoring pointing out things in such a way to draw attention to the
reader saying wow the destruction of Jerusalem is similar in some ways to the destruction of
Troy during the trojan war back in the Homeric epics thank you i'll give me one more but no one
no one turns around and says well i guess the destruction of Jerusalem is entirely fiction
no it's just Homeric flavoring and remember denis's hypothesis is not merely that there's a little
bit of Homeric flavoring in the gospels he's saying that they imitated to the point where they
invented the stories and that they are almost entirely fiction i don't believe he's proven the
point and i don't believe anything he said really calls into question the historicity of the resurrection
of jesus thank you
i cannot tell you how much i disagree with that analysis now that doesn't mean i'm right but it
does mean we have something to talk about i found all of his suggestions forced yes it
is a problem to have psiky or psukikon related to the body but in the context paul is talking about
he's interpreting genesis and in genesis there's the phrase psukikon zosan and the the soul becomes
living and it becomes living in a body so i think contextually it still is talking about a body
yes you can say flesh and bone can be a figure but it's in the context of paul saying it's not a
physical it's not a psikikon body it's a spiritual one and mike i don't know how you can claim
that the spiritual body is the spirit coming down and then claiming bodies and then raising
bodies up when he says flesh and bone can inherit the kingdom of god and the gospel
writers don't affirm that in my view the the q document does know that jesus died take up your
cross and follow me that's in the q document don't fear those who can kill the body but those who
can kill the soul jruslem jruslem who kills the prophets who are sent to you which includes john
and jesus for the author so he knows that jesus has died and he's saying you won't see me again
until um i come back in glory um the business i'm going to spend most of my time on mimesis as you
might imagine no i want to i want to come back to say one other thing about your major presentation
hundreds of people in ancient texts claimed to see the the dead rise and walking around
sometimes they're in spiritual form sometimes they're in bodies the i and by the way i think paul
had a vision and i think he is citing visions of people in the circle of the 12
who um had similar visions the carinthians thought it was a soul that was disembodied from the body
and we know of that from homer that people can see the disembodied souls um but i but how do we
make a judgment of a lot of people have seen elvis presley a lot of people every year see the virgin
mary how do we make judgments about it and by the way some of these people die for their visions
so this idea that people um believe the visions and so on and that many people had the visions
is nothing new in ancient literature but i want to go to mimesis if you can find a way to explain
the parallels that i put up for you about odyssey 24 and that text i'd like to have an explanation
i can show you many people who imitated that very text including jewish authors
it the idea that you have the recognition by a scar and their eyes weren't kept from
seeing him these are verbal similarities in greeks this is not random now i grant the point
that a judgment about literary connection is not a historical judgment i agree with that mike
on the other hand if you have almost everything in the story explainable by the model it means
that there's very little to account for as historical especially when luke who knows the acts
of the apostles doesn't mention 500 appearances he doesn't he differs with paul and says that it's a
physical body and um mike i think you're playing a show game with us i think you've got a commitment
theologically and you're scraping the barrel to find arguments and and information so i think
i think all of your examples are problematic and here's a major point that i want to make
and it has to do with social identity criticism and this is going to get in the weeds and very
scholarly but i think you'll see why it matters social identity theory is simply interested in
how social groups in the modern world but also in antiquity organize themselves and groups like
washburn university or your churches identify themselves by certain characteristics and often
those characteristics get identified with what's called a prototypical leader your social groups
also have social boundaries and you identify outsiders who are villains or don't share your
values whether it's in politics whether it's in race whether it's in gender and it's a major
problem in our culture that we have become so polarized between um stereotype in groups and
out groups in the gospels of course jesus is the prototypical leader in all the gospels so i'm going
to read this to you what kind of book is a gospel it is not as mike seems to assume a history or a
bio biography it's a foundational narrative for a community and it functions as by praising
the prototypical leader jesus of a self-stereotype in group the disciples and others to distinguish it
from stereotyped out groups Pharisees chief priests Gentiles Romans often rivaling their own
narratives that's where memesis comes in it comes in in the contestation between the in group and the
out group and memesis happens in the jewish bible in controversies with jews and in greek poetry
especially the elite and the odyssey but i want final remark i want to know why five chapters out
of 90 in the gospels get all the attention on this topic we have four chapters of infancy stories
we have 80 about jesus's championing the poor about his parables about his predictions of the
future about his commissioning the disciples about his talking about ethics that's the jesus we
should be talking about not some mythical notion that people saw him after his death jesus had no
responsibility for or agency in that he that he was raised that's what god did for him but that's
what the community had to say because they were so crushed at jesus's death that they couldn't let
his death be the final word and in different ways the gospel authors and paul affirm that god would
not let jesus's career go on uh unfulfilled but the idea that we can trust that there is a bodily
resurrection or a bodily resurrection in the future for people seems to be very very unhistorical and
unscientific
so a reminder then uh each of our debaters gets 10 minutes to ask questions of the other
uh dr lacon is going to ask questions first do you want this one are you going to use that one
now
hello is this on cool all right let's let's do it okay so denise you said paul and the disciples
had visions okay so that that's typically the way i would take that would be that they had
experiences of jesus that were um they were non-corporeal they were not within spacetime
they were more unlike dreams or hallucinations something like that is that what you mean
no i don't know what it means i know that paul claims to have seen the risen christ
whether he's doing that in a dream or vision uh i don't know okay but you would say it's
some kind of a psychological thing then right um i think that if somebody said they had seen
Elvis that would be my first impression and i'd have to be proven uh have it proved otherwise
okay but but when you say paul and the disciples saw visions what do you think's the cause
whether it was in spacetime or outside whether it was physical or immaterial
what do you think was the cause of those visions i think it's willful wishing willful wishing that
god did it because jesus's career needed vindication so why would paul wish if he thought jesus was
a failed messiah and false prophet and he was out persecuting the church why would he wish to see
jesus no paul does not have that story that's an ax and i don't think that's historical it comes
right out of the bakai when luke tells the story he says he quotes the bakai it is hard for you to
kick against the goats okay so you no no you trust luke then i'm you trust you think ax is
historical and paul understands by his call by his vision is that he now is to preach the gospel
to gentiles right it's not a conversion call so so what what so do you think he had some kind of
an experience in other words i do i do i do think he had that he thought was jesus well sorry that
you thought he had an experience that he interpreted as the risen jesus yes and what do you think was
the cause of that it wasn't wishful thinking of course so what was it i don't know what the cause
is of people having visions okay so for one reason for for whatever reason that you can explain you
have no idea whatsoever that paul why paul thought he saw the risen jesus no i don't and i my wife
has visions and i don't know what causes except my cooking okay right and she probably wouldn't
die for your cooking she probably wouldn't give up her life from the cooking yeah she probably
wouldn't could change her life i mean i think for paul no people change people die for visions all
the time like and you know that i of course i'm not disputing that dentis but for paul to go from
person to acute in the church to all of a sudden become one of the persecuted and diane is a christian
martyr that is so unlikely i think it's more likely that nancy polosi becomes the chair of the 2024
campaign of donald trump for president because she likes the slogan make america great again
than it is that paul would would convert to christianity here's a challenge i want you to show me one
verse that says that that vision of the risen christ was the reason he converted or had his theology
what he says is that that was a message to give to bring the message to the Gentiles
it's that is paul saying the vision was his conversion that's not what paul says okay so
but paul says all right so if you're going you you first you quoted from ax about kicking against
the goats so are you considering that as paul's view or not no it's luke's view okay so that's
if it's not paul's view let's exclude ax for now and just look at paul so paul says in first
Corinthians 15 last of all as to one and timely born he appeared also to me so he believes that he
has this experience of the of the risen jesus and he believes and the other apostles do too and he
thinks the others did too and he probably thinks 500 people at it that's right luke doesn't think
that right well no i i what do you mean luke doesn't think that well why wouldn't he say it in the
x of the apostles well you don't have to cover everything no all the time come on all right
so but paul talks about these things and then you mentioned about the disciples well you asked me
to to talk about the odyssey chapter 24 so i'll wait and let you ask me that question later on
what i would do and say paul believed in physical bodily resurrection let's go back to first Thessalonians
4 13 through 17 and there remember paul says i don't want you to grieve as those who have no hope
christ is going to bring back with him those who have died in him so he's going to bring back the
spirits of the dead but then he says and then the trumpet will sound and the dead in christ will be
raised well wait a minute if they're coming back with him who's going to be raised that can only
mean that their spirits are going to be reunited with the corpses oh come on no listen how do you
get the spirit coming down okay then tell me what how how you interpret it what's being raised
who are the dead in christ being raised if he's bringing the dead in christ back with him well
he's bringing the dead and we shall meet the lord in the air no then he says and then the dead will
be raised the and that will for paul would have been a spiritual that now i would say and i think
you'd agree with this actually mike paul changes his mind about this imagery in his later epistles
so that he changes his mind about what he uses the image of we must put off the body
and between first and second correct image which was the soul and this is like a platonic
interpretation phylonic interpretation i don't take that as as being a change in his mind i think
by the time he gets the second Corinthians what he's referring to is he second Corinthians 2
8 or 416 through 5 8 he is talking about the intermediate state no no but in chapter 5 of
second Corinthians he says it's not that we would put off the body but that would be clothed in
addition so that this in addition to the body is the spiritual encasement that allows for the
resurrection i'm not sure we're going to settle this tonight no i think it means i think i think
we might be on the same we might interpret a little different but i agree with you that he's
talking about a further clothing that's right yeah all right one final question for you um
you said in your uh rebuttal that it we should be talking more about jesus and not this question
about his resurrection because there's so much in the gospels about his teachings i agree with you
and we do that's what we do when we talk theology it's what we do when we just talk about practical
christian living we talk about the sermenal amount um i'd love the sermenal amount i've memorized
matthew's version of the sermenal amount i love it so much um so the teachings of jesus are important
of course but tonight we're here to talk about his resurrection what do we mean by resurrection and
did it actually occurred and i'm speaking as a historian here that i'm wanting to look at the
historical question and say all right we can know that jesus disciples truly believe that he rose from
the dead and had appeared to them what's the best explanation for that you say visions but you have no
idea what caused those visions i think that the best explanation is jesus actually rose and appeared
to them because i showed how it's probably not hallucinations and it wasn't a metaphor and you
start to run out of explanations the only thing left really that adequately explains it in my
in my mind is jesus actually rose from the dead okay we're on this point i want to just be fine
tuning the differences between us and then maybe open it up to the audience if it's appropriate to do
so soon um in my view it's the 80 chapters that are not about resurrection that caused the five
chapters about resurrection that people were so grateful for jesus's message and so hopeful
that his understanding the kingdom of god would usher in some liberation and a relaxing of Torah
and when he was so badly crucified there was cognitive dissonance and we know in the history
of failed prophecies and so on that when people suffer great agony they have to compensate for it
with some kind of hope and this is actually the hope in your opening remarks of why people if we
live in such a miserable world with covid and racism and nationalism and war we want religion and
some security don't we but and so we have we are vulnerable to these notions of of of life and i
think the early christians were too so i think that's what issues into the hope of early christians
um resurrection of the body not resurrection of the body and so on so that the the 80 chapters in
the gospels lead to the five and the five don't justify us thinking that jesus is the son of god
in the 80 before so final comment and then i'll turn it over to you my comment and in response to
that would be good historical practice must account for the the maximum amount of knowable facts
and what you just said does not account for paul because paul was not grieving over jesus death
he wasn't trying to to figure out what was what was going on there he believed jesus was a failed
messiah in a false prophet so he's not grieving over jesus death and trying to make sense out of it
and his argument that if christ was not raised we're not going to be raised if we're not going
to be raised the christian life is not worth living but christ was raised therefore we will be raised
therefore the christian life is worth living that argument makes no sense whatsoever unless they
truly believe jesus had been raised from the death did i hear you say mike that jesus didn't grieve
jesus's crucifixion did i hear you say that that jesus didn't grieve his crucifixion that's what i
heard you say how did you hear me say that because i thought that's what you said he's preaching the
crucify it's the um the the well i forget his his imagery but it's as bad as it gets it's the
nadir of human experience to have a noble person like that died like hector died in the odyssey
or like socrates being so unfairly killed and so on and that might apply to the disciples it
doesn't apply to paul paul grieved paul grieved over jesus's death yes of course what what evidence
do you have for that because he talks about the crucifixion is the most dismal thing one can imagine
only because he's a believer at that point i'm sorry he's a believer at that point he's not
grieving over jesus's death as a as a non-believer he's out persecuting the church he's glad jesus
is dead but go ahead you can start asking questions okay so if you have questions we'd ask you to
come forward to one of the microphones on either side um what i would ask you to do is tell us your
name tell us who you're directing your question to and be concise don't give speeches be concise
ask a question so uh but go ahead right here
hey um so that's my voice um denis i have a question for you and that is are you aware
of any historical documents from within the first or second centuries that talk about the
early church followers and the early followers of jesus from the way that you see them as a bunch of
very grieve and very hurting people who are simply out of their minds insane and have no evidence
for their beliefs well i think i gave you the evidence that's there it's in the gospels that
jesus did not appear to the disciples that um there um is very little confirmation i mean it's not
appearance to the 12th poll doesn't know about judas mark makes the judas and and mary mangling up
and joseph and miram and thea too they all have analogies in Homer so i think i've given you the
evidence now most of the people that uh mike cited are theologians and they're in the Pauline tradition
that would be through for clement to some extent probably polycarp and so they are be they're going
to be pauline interpreters um so yeah now by the way i'm let me be clear i think all people who were
involved in the writing of the new testament believe that god had vindicated jesus all right
my question was if there was anyone outside of those people who wrote about those people
with the same view that you have about them no i think not that i know us all right thank you
okay we'll go this way okay my questions also for dr mcdonald um one of your biggest points
was that jesus was raised by god and not by himself um this disregards one of the biggest
foundations of the christian faith um the holy eternity saying that they are all one so how is
jesus or if jesus is god how is him like how is god raising him part like raising part of
himself passive does that make sense it doesn't to me so if they are all one like the holy trinity
you are saying that it was passive jesus raising himself um but if jesus and god are the same person
how would that happen can you understand the question i i think i think she's saying and i
it's a little bit honestly it's a little difficult to hear up up here um but i think what you are
saying is under the christian doctrine of the trinity you've got father son holy spirit that
make up one god and he was saying that um god raised jesus is what it says it doesn't talk about
jesus raising himself but if jesus is part of the trinity then he was part of that is that
okay um i'm a christian who doesn't believe in the christian god okay so trinity talk is another
wonderful mythology that some it sustains some people but i just don't think there's um that's
where i would be i'm a humanist i'm not i'm not against religion i'm a humanist i'm actually
for religion but i want it to be responsible to itself and i don't want it to hurt people the
way that religion is hurting us now okay we'll go this way okay hold on can i just say something
real quick about religion hurting us now atheism is hurting us now too and i just want to point
out that it was atheists in the 20th century mal who murdered about 70 million people it was
stalling who murdered millions between the two atheists alone they murdered more people and
butchery in the 20th century i do not deny that so there is some evil in religion i understand that
but there's evil in every worldview you can't judge a philosophy by its abuse certainly jesus
did not condone rejection you can't judge religion or philosophy by what it does
did i hear you say that you you can't judge a philosophy by its abuse okay that's how that's
the only way you can judge a philosophy so if jesus taught to love our enemies already might if
jesus taught us to love our enemies and pray for those who persecute us what do we do about the
crusades in the inquisition well that was against what jesus taught i agree with you okay yeah i agree
with you well you talk about how at first there are eight there are like 80 chapters that explain
the five chapters of jesus's death and resurrection uh how do you explain jesus himself in passages
where he talks about the temple being destroyed and being raised and uh they shall see no sign
other than the sign of jona which is of course him being in the belly of the fish and then
coming out where jesus himself is basically prophesying his own death and resurrection
and then when uh all of this happens and jesus is raised the disciples go aha that's what he meant
there so there are how we okay the the business about um the sign of jona and being raised only
appears in the mathian version the sign of jona is preaching it is not a miracle it's not being
in the the heart of the earth for three days and jesus does not anticipate anywhere is his
vindication by god except at the end of time when he'll come back in just and by the way i don't
think there's going to jesus going to return at the end of time either so um if you want to just
kind of take me out and crucify me too i can imagine that but um we have been too innocent
about the radicalism of the new testament and i think we've cloaked it in the notion that it
must be fine because god raised jesus from the dead first i just want to thank both of you
for coming out um especially dr mcdonald it's it's hard to be in a hostile audience so i really
appreciate the respect uh you come in and sharing with us um this question's for both of you a lot
of discussion has been revolving around first christians 15 and proper interpretation of what
Paul meant whether it was a spiritual resurrection or physical bodily one but one of the verses or
two of the verses i didn't hear discussed today i'd like to hear both of your interpretations
understand they have this first christians 15 35 or 36 uh i'll just read it for you to say the
audience and make sure you both know it um where Paul says but some will say how are the dead
raised and with what kind of body do they come he says you fool that which you so does not come to
life unless it dies uh to me it sounds like he's speaking of a physical body dying and a physical
body being raised i'm speaking about the same thing at verse 36 and it seems to be the physical
body but i'd like to hear both of your interpretations on that thank you
that is exactly right there are different kinds of bodies there's one that is sewn in another
raised what is sewn is for paul our physical body and it's sewn in the ground but it's raised a
spiritual body now the phrase that he says um with what kind of body is it um is the resurrection
going to happen should be said with sarcasm as though it's coming from his opponents oh yeah if
there's a resurrection of the dead what kind of body is he going to be it's not going to be flesh
and bone is it because that's what you say in in this text um and so they want to know they don't
think there's going to be a resurrection of the body because what could that possibly mean
and paul is stretching things to make it a spiritual body so that's why he has and it's a
perfect passage actually in my opening remarks earlier i cited that passage and then didn't
think i had time for it so i think that that uh about the what it's sewn and raised and talking
about that seed analogy it is talking about the continuity so what goes down in burial is what
comes up in resurrection it's transformed of course it's different but it there's a continuity
between the corpse and the body that's raised just as you have with the seed it's there's there's
continuity of course there's there's differences but there is a continuity between them again
i just want to reemphasize that when paul uses the term spiritual here he is not meaning in a sense
of ethereal or immaterial he is using it more in the sense of a spiritually animated body something
that is animated by the holy spirit if paul wanted to use this comparison between physical and immaterial
he had used a similar contrast in chapter nine when he says hey look if i sewed spiritual things
among you meaning his teachings don't i have the right to reap physical things and so he
used the term sarcacus pneumaticus and sarcacus there so if he was doing this with the body he
had already used that seed analogy and this uh uh comparison just a few chapters earlier but he
doesn't he uses uh sarcacus which never means physical never versus pneumaticus
thanks for coming out um my name is even i've got a question uh kind of for both of you but
primarily for you dr mcdonald so when you were establishing your opening points you focused
briefly on bark 16 verse 6 in establishing that jesus's resurrection was a passive action and
i've been flipping through different translations and every single one
none of them none of the wider use uh translations of the new testament have that as a passive
and this is just the first part of the question um can you explain to me how you got there and i know
the two of you both know you agree well you've got it from the rich a gargitati okay it's a verb
it's a verb yeah i mean i'll read it to you
um
oh no a garothy um he was crucified and he was raised up a garothy in this case but it becomes
a gargitani elsewhere it's a passive god does it he's the agent of passive okay uh why then are
all the major translations of i'm sorry why then are all the major translations of uh mark
not translating that in a passive sense
and my second part of that is when you quoted that uh verse when you quoted that verse you left out
of part um at the end and i wanted to ask why and uh because you quoted it and you and this
isn't the translation you used i expect you translated it yourself and he said to them
do not be alarmed you seek Jesus of Nazareth who was crucified he has risen he is not here
and you left out see the place where they laid him so my question for you is what happened what
do you think happened to the body and why why do you think here it says that they were pointing out
why do you think he says that they were pointing out that this empty space was here with the body
no no he really died he was buried in a tomb
and but the space is empty is the is the look all early christians think that Jesus was
indicated in some way and some argued that he died and there was a spiritual raising there was the
soul raising um but it would be very difficult for me to imagine a justifying a claim about anybody
that their body didn't rot in a tomb i'd like to see an example of that in science
thank you i'd just like to throw in something the the earliest christians and the disciples
is who were really concerned about here not what others said you go to the gospel of thomas which
is probably mid to late second century in my opinion some will date thomas a little earlier than that
but thomas has two thoughts about resurrection in logia 37 and 51 resurrection is referred to as
disembodiment and enlightenment respectively and of course there were some also who interpreted
resurrection as spiritual immaterial things like this but remember we're concerned for the question
about resurrection did it actually occur the main thing we're looking at is what did the original
disciples say about resurrection that's what's most important and they said Jesus had been raised
from the dead and had appeared to them and i've shown several times through paul that paul believed
in a physical bodily resurrection despite denises contention to the contrary he's pretty clear
that he means a physical bodily resurrection and that means that the other disciples did as well
can i real quickly just add one last final part to that
steven says i know steven's academic advisor really well uh and and he's like this all the time he
always has one more question so i'm i'm his advisor so steven i'm gonna go this way sorry
thank you dr lecona and dr mcdonald for coming out i know a lot of work went into this thank you
but and i i have wanted to make sure i understand you correctly did you say that god raised jesus
from the dead but jesus did that raise himself okay how do you interpret what jesus said in john
two about destroy this temple and in three days i will rise it up again and earlier or later in
john chapter 11 jesus said i lay down my life i choose to take it up again no those are very good
observations i don't think jesus said that the gospel of john is later and in one of those cases at
least um he's uh relating to the synoptics now i think i said that it almost always is the case
that you have god raised jesus from the dead but in the gospel john it is an exception it's very
perceptive okay um by what authority do you say jesus never said those things you accept some things
that jesus said in the gospels but you reject other things that jesus said by what authority
do you decide what is authentic and what is not again that's a very good question but historians
have to set out criteria about what they think is likely for jesus to have said and not to have said
people may have heard about the jesus seminar it ran on for years and scholars got together
and argued over criteria to determine which things jesus likely said in which ones didn't
and so in this regard i really am following what i consider to be the consensus of critical
scholarship but again it's a very good question criteria are needed to determine that you just
can't lump it all together and say it's all everything that is attributed to jesus is a
red letter okay i have more questions but i'll i'll take off so thank you both thank you
hi my name is josh i've got a question for both of you um at the end so so the end of mark being
mark 16 8 um from from the presentation there's what's known as the short version or long version
can you tell me so the long version being mark continuing from verses nine to 20 um which of
those do you like what manuscripts do you look at to determine if mark should end at eight or
should continue on to verses nine on this question there really is no there really is no serious
debate the longer ending is later it shows evidence of knowing um mathu and luke it's correcting a
perceived problem in the text and it doesn't appear it does appear relatively early it appears in
the second century already but um but the the the most trustworthy manuscripts don't have it
and if they knew of it they surely would have included it good question do you agree with that
assessment yeah i i do uh you'd be hard-pressed well is this one yeah you'd be hard-pressed
to find a scholar today who thinks that the longer or shorter ending of mark is authentic
they believe that mark ends with 16 verse chapter 16 verse eight uh but the question is why and it is
so awkward now there's probably well there's certainly no consensus on the answer why it ends
that way in fact there are probably more explanations out there on why it ends that way
than there are new testament scholars positing them um my guess is that mark's ending was lost
is what i think i just you know you have jesus i i think that it's historical that he predicted
his imminent death and resurrection i've written on this i've published on it so i do think that
it is historical that he predicted his death and resurrection um so and we have some decent
evidence for the resurrection of jesus so why would mark end there um i i think it was probably
lost or for some reason maybe he was in prison or he got sick and was unable to complete it
we just don't know it is an enigma and scholars are going to have different interpretations
one of which is that even though the women didn't tell the disciples to see jesus and gallilee
gallilee may be a cipher for gentile mission and it's up to the reader to go tell about the
resurrected jesus so uh and that's really very attractive to preachers and and but to to other
critical scholars too so it's a very good question it isn't enigma but it almost certainly is that
the gospel of mark ended there in chapter eight i of course argue that it's jesus mark's way of
getting jesus off the hook for the disciples not learning that they should see jesus and gallilee
not in jerusalem thank you
hi um my name is haley weizman and i actually have a question for the doctor
mcdonnell um you talk about how we are a historian and how we um you know appreciate
evidence and facts and i'm a facts girl so i was wondering you presented this powerful
demonstration of the similarities between these sections of the gospel and those Homeric
facts and you make this very important and insured assertion that those
similarities are directly correlated with the fact that they were copy there's no
ring or judgment as to whether or not that was actually true there was no evidence there that
was a very quick assumption that you made and i was just wondering if there was any factual
evidence that you have because you one of your researches was that um that type of
prose was tough in schools um so who was to say that the authors of the gospel were not
taught how to write in a similar fashion and those writings that were later been
posed resembled that i mean we are taught to write in a similar way in school
and our writings all resemble one another so who's to say and that's just one example who's to say
that the similarities that are presented between those two texts are directly correlated to the
fact that they were copy okay if people knew how to read they knew how to write like that
that's how they were taught to write um and the parallels that i was able to give today
are just one good example of many many many the garrison demoniac story is a retelling
of the polyphemus story uh in seer see jesus turns the soldiers into swine you have the
recognition of jesus by an anointed woman which is the niptra in odyssey 19 you have
visitations of the dead in chapter 11 the sea of galilee is never called that before mark and
jesus is sailing the sea all over the place with disciples who can't understand him and he can calm
the sea well those are themes that come out of the odyssey so when you see this globally
um by the way i think your question is a very good one i'm not trying to put you off i'm actually
trying to answer it i'm not in a position to say an example that i gave you that luke knew nothing
about jesus's resurrection i'm just saying that there's nothing left in the story to give me hope
that there is that's all it is it is false that when he says it's never he's half true half correct
when he says it's never referred to the sea of galilee prior to mark and he has to go that way
because he thinks mark is inventing the the call on it to see in order to uh compete with the odyssey
but in the old testament there um are references to the sea of chenarith or something like that
and so they don't call it the sea of galilee but they refer to it as a sea and it's also referred
to as a sea in the uh jerusalem talmud so a thousand years before the new testament that is
true to a sea and a hundred or so years after the new testament it's referred to as a sea so mark
did not invent that term no i'm not saying mark invented the idea of the sea but the phrase the
sea of galilee and when luke rewrites it he always calls it a lake and back to that comparison of
those texts back to the comparison of those texts he also made a key assertion towards the end of
one of your slides that said that the more times that we see these comparisons the more that we
can equate the two as as being coffee and being synonymous where did you get that doctrine from
can you repeat the question i didn't hear it i oh i'm sorry it's it's hard up here so at the end
of one of your slides you made the key assertion that the more times that those similarities were
seen between the Homeric epics and the biblical texts the more time that you know those similarities
were drawn um the more likely that the two were somehow correlated that the two were somehow
you know one was popping from the other and where did you where did you get that doctrine
oh no that's a very good question and um the way scholars talk about it is what is the genre
of a gospel is it a history in which we can test it against other information is it a biography
in which we can test it against the what we know about a person or is it a fiction that is
eternally coherent and we know what the author's agenda is and what the models are and in the case
of mark and luke acts it's clear that the models primarily come not from the bible they come from
greek poetry but the reason we haven't seen it is most of us haven't read escholus in the last two
days uh you know we just don't know this stuff it's the way that these people knew it by the way
i want to give you one statistic if early christians knew a book it was not the septuagint it was
not a copy of the bible it was a copy of homer during this period we have catalogs of papyri we
have 600 just of homer not to mention playtoe and euripides and so on we have five fragments of the
septuagint five against more than 600 so homer was the beginning the middle and the end of greek
culture that's a quotation from one of marx of contemporaries and we simply have been blind to
it and i'm hoping that i can encourage you to read homer on your own i would say that by far the
large very large majority of critical scholars today view the gospels as biographies and therefore a
historical genre now that's not to say that they believe everything in them okay but they say that
they were written and intended to be understood as historical recollections of jesus if um if
what denises saying is true that they were just simply foundational fictional stories i would
anticipate that they would write in such a genre and that would be novel or epic or poetry but that's
not what they're they're written in they're written as biographies and they have all these
different characteristics of biographies also i would anticipate that you would find a significant
number of early people readers of the gospels interpret them as intended fictions but you
don't find it with the early christians whenever you date second peter whoever the author is you
would still first peter once second peter 116 says we did not follow cleverly devised myths
but we were eyewitnesses of his majesty so they're taking the transfiguration as historical
you've got clement of realm saying the disciples were greatly encouraged when they saw the risen
jesus um so he's thinking of it as historical you have ignatious in the first decade of the second
century saying that the virgin birth death and resurrection of jesus a laithos truly occurred
um that i i would also want to look and and see the um the skeptics they also interpreted the gospels
as being intended historical accounts because the way we know that from the way they answered it
they said well the tomb was empty because the disciples stole the body or the gardener reburied
the body or jesus faked his death and so they're answering historical claims and then notice how
the christians responded they didn't say oh you misunderstand these are just foundational fictional
accounts like the homeric epics now they defended the historicity of the empty tomb of the resurrection
and the miracles and teachings of jesus so i don't see anything that really justifies denise's
position a little homeric flavoring perhaps on occasion but outright invention to imitate
the homeric epics not a chance thank you you know i have a lot to say about that but i'm i'm not
going to so so um i'm actually going to apologize to those of you in line we're actually over time
so i have to wrap it up so i'm sorry we're not going to get to your questions um really great i'm
noticing some great questions really appreciate your participation and your willingness to ask
questions let me remind you students it's time it's almost time for spring registration for classes
so sign up for class and religious studies come take the reformation i'm teaching the
reformation in the spring which is by far the most important class at the university
so come study you know don't don't stop learning by document donal's books by dr lakona's books
keep learning i mean this is it's fascinating stuff and you really need to dive in and and and
just read and read and learn and learn at every opportunity if you would please join me in thanking
both of our speakers tonight for a wonderful job
so one more time agreeable disagreement really is at the heart of learning it's so important to the
experience of learning and you've seen it at its very best here tonight uh so thank you again for
coming thank you for christian challenge of course for putting on this type of event to give you an
opportunity to learn so uh keep learning stay safe thank you
you
