Can we really know that is dogmatized on which version John had in mind?
If you're being distracted by an incestant knock at the door, don't worry.
It may be an axe murderer, but rest assured it's not me.
I'm not trying to share with you the good news that your Christian faith is misplaced or in vain,
but it is my task, even if self-appointed, to try to keep you honest when it comes to the Bible.
If Scripture gives you welcome promises, it also bequeaths you serious doubts,
and your faith will not be worth much until you face up to them fair and square.
I must admit, also, I left out in particular the axe situation in Acts chapters 9 through 11,
where the author of Luke acts is definitely harping back to the Jonah story, utilizing Jonah from
the first healing that happens with Aeneas, and then Tabitha, and then Cornelius.
You have a miracle of Cornelius getting the Holy Spirit, and Peter is convinced
that this unclean person is now clean.
This Jonah story appears often in the early traditions, and you have to wonder,
is this the point of the resurrection? Is that it's going to those who are not Jews?
And this is their obvious evidence that the resurrection is true,
is that non-Jews are believing the message. I'm highly suspect to thinking that's the case,
but never forget, I'm not going to knock on your door,
and I hope that you'll be honest. I think it's better to be a doubting Thomas than a blind fool.
No one is knocking on my door telling me about their Lord and Savior,
Romulus Carinius, who ascended on high was called a king,
son of God, and father of the greatest city ever known to man, Rome. But if they did,
I'm pretty sure I know what they would say. There's eyewitness testimony that he appeared
after his ascension into heaven to a trustworthy senator named Proculus Julius,
charging him to tell the Romans that it is the will of heaven that my Rome should be the head of
all the world. And guess what? It came true. Just as he said it would, therefore you must believe
or be damned forever. But fundamentalists evangelicals actively participate in such
activities. So I want to address these issues for anyone who's had people knock on the doors of their
hearts, minds, or literally at their homes with such argumentation. You know, I was an evangelical
Christian for most of my life. I even dabbled in apologetics when I went to Carolina College
biblical studies. They used to call it Carolina Bible College. My vision was to become a pastor
of a congregation and defend my faith to those who would try to cast doubt. And boy, how have the
tables turned. Christian apologists focused their efforts on the resurrection of Jesus,
which is supposed to prove everything in their creed. They strive to support their faith in the
resurrection as verifiable in real history by relying on six minimal facts. The argument goes
like this. Number one, Jesus was killed by crucifixion. Number two, soon after his followers had
real experiences where they thought the risen Jesus had appeared to them. Number three, their
lives were changed to the point that they were willing to die for this belief. Number four,
that these things were taught very soon after Jesus' death. Number five, that Jesus' unwilling
or unbelieving brother James was convinced from an experience he had, which he thought he encountered
the risen Christ. Number six, that Paul was also convinced of Jesus' resurrection from a similar
experience while he was persecutor of the Jesus movement. This minimal facts argument helps the
believing Christian in his engagement with skeptics. By contrast, I want to highlight an argument that
is oftentimes overlooked. Let's coin this phrase and call it the minimal doubts argument. The
traditions in the New Testament, which depict the disciples as initially doubting the resurrection,
deserve new and closer scrutiny. They ought to be troubling for people thousands of years removed
from Jesus. If his own followers weren't sure, why should we be so sure? Has Jesus literally appeared
to you in order for you to fill his scars and touch his side? Hmm. I will skip over Paul,
even though he is our earliest witness, because his alleged experiences were subsequent to those
enshrined in the Gospel Easter episodes. Also, Paul doesn't really go into these doubting traditions,
but merely provides a roll call of people who experienced appearances of Jesus
to validate his own calling as an apostle. See 1 Corinthians 15 and 1 Corinthians 9 1.
And mustn't we infer that those who rejected Paul's apostleship also rejected his claims of
having encountered the risen Jesus? Did they think he was making it all up? And since he lambasted
others as false apostles all throughout his letters, can we not infer that he rejected
their claims as equally spurious? Let me paint a picture for you. That would mean that fabricated
claims of resurrection appearances were circulating as part and parcel of conflicting and therefore
dubious assertions of apostolic authority. This calls for a mind with wisdom, i.e. someone with
critical thinking, not accepting things at face value, even things we want to believe.
I hope one will see that the earliest believers in Jesus weren't so sure about Jesus being the Messiah
until they experienced what they call or what they believed to be the risen Jesus,
and even then were doubts for not out of the question. My sole purpose is to convince you,
if you've not actually touched Jesus' hands and side, then you too should be a doubting Thomas.
We're going to start with the earliest gospel, Mark. It's obvious to all concerned that gospels,
the gospels, are written to convince people. Jesus is the Son of God and that he rose from the dead.
If we look at Dr. Bart Ehrman's approach and how Jesus became God, we see a development of Jesus'
tradition from Mark's gospel to John's. And I want to take this approach on the doubting tradition.
Mark, whoever this writer may have been, looks to be the earliest gospel. He wants to give his
readers the distinct impression that no one grasps who Jesus really is. Scholars call this the messianic
secret, because Jesus reveals his true identity only through parables, the meaning of which he
hides from his hearers, even his closest disciples remain clueless. Attention was first drawn to
this motif in 1901 by William Reed. When the demons recognize Jesus' secret identity,
he silences them. Even when the disciples gain an inkling of Jesus' true dignity,
they have only reached square one. Jesus remains largely a mystery to them. Jesus even commands
Peter, James, and John to remain silent after the transfiguration scene. Why? Jesus himself
never reveals his true identity openly. Rather, the disciples only later put the pieces together
retrospectively, subsequent to the resurrection. What? Is this some kind of practical joke played
on the disciples? It is a cruel game indeed if the stakes are as high as Christian theology makes
them. If one soul is dangling over the volcano pit, as Calvinist Jonathan Edwards imagined,
and the only escape clause stipulates acceptance of some ensalmian sacrifice soteriology,
are we not way beyond Mark 115's gospel tidings? The kingdom of God is at hand! Repent!
Does it sound like God wants everyone to be saved? Think about it.
Oddly, Mark's gospel winds up placing its readers on par with the unclean spirits whom
Jesus continuously silences. Since they, unlike the dim-witted disciples, know full well who and
what Jesus is. Within the bounds of the story, the disciples have to arrive gradually at the
conclusion. The demons already know. Only they never do. The Roman centurion posted at the cross
experiences a flash of Christological insight, and he says, truly, this man was the Son of God.
The young man who greets the mourning women at the tomb affirms Jesus' resurrection,
or ascension, but he says nothing of who Jesus is or was. Presumably, Jesus would have explained
everything to them at their proposed reunion in Galilee. But the women neglect to relay the
invitation to the disciples, for they were afraid. Is the evangelist hinting that the
disciples never came to true Christian faith as Marcian thought? Whereas someone else, i.e. Paul,
alluded to in Mark 9, 38 through 41, did? And remember, at-in this connection to the business
about the resurrection and counter-stories, functioning offered as credentials for apostles.
Put it this way, if one had to have seen and been commissioned by the risen Lord
in order to qualify as an apostle, what does that say about the 12 who missed their appointment in
Galilee? Paul is said to have said, I was not disobedient to the heavenly vision in Acts 26-19,
but the 12 were not. They were rather like those summoned to the great supper and did not make it.
Many are called, but few are chosen. Did Mark think that would include disciples?
By denying Peter and the rest saw the resurrected Jesus, was he undercutting their claim to
apostleship? They were those who were reputed to be something, but what they were makes no
difference to me, Paul says in Galatians 2-6. Putting it simply, is Mark's gospel antagonistic
to the 12, but glorifies Paul as a true apostle while denying the others,
since they never saw the risen Jesus. But the women were afraid and told no one.
Mark 8, 11 through 13 seems to want to rebuke enemies of the Jesus' faith,
but one has to wonder if those Pharisees really stand for Christian readers,
who desperately want to believe but cannot persuade themselves to do so, people like me.
The Pharisees came and began to question Jesus to test him. They asked him for a sign from heaven.
He sighed deeply and said, why does this generation ask for a sign?
Truly, I tell you, no sign will be given to it. Then he left them, got back into the boat,
and crossed to the other side. This response seems to be quite odd,
because if these Pharisees actually did receive the requested sign and believed in Jesus,
why on earth wouldn't this be a good thing? We automatically assumed they were already
convinced Jesus was a charlatan and were only trying to embarrass him, but that assumption
may be making asses out of you and me. This gospel, conspicuously, leaves out the sign of Jonah,
hence the abrupt ending without Jesus' resurrection appearances.
Mark seems to be dismissing people's doubts at every turn. You should just have faith and take
their word for it. No wonder believers are taught not to doubt but to believe no matter what.
If these Pharisees sincerely asked for signs to know whether Jesus really was the promised one,
why wouldn't one be given? Could this all be a way to convince the readers that they will not
receive a sign because they don't or shouldn't need one? Though it may not be seen that way to
them or they wouldn't be asking, there's already sufficient evidence of Jesus from what they read
or from the testimony of others. Not good enough for you? Well, too bad. This is not exactly a
strategy to reassure the doubting soul, rather it amounts to a command to suppress one's doubt,
as if that is the path to virtue. It suggests that the real business of apologetics is to
convince oneself, not others. If Unification Church recruits began to have second thoughts,
as to whether the Reverend Sun Young Moon were actually the Lord of the Second Advent,
they were told simply to chant, shout out doubt, over and over again. Isn't that what it boils down
to? Why not admit what you suspected all along? This is a sin, the sin of intellectual dishonesty.
Walter Kaufman explained the dilemma faced by one who puts all this chips on a sheer
faith proposition. This is what he said.
Those who pit commitment against reason and advise us to blind and destroy our reason before
making the most crucial choice of our life are apologists for one specific set of doctrines,
which to use Paul's words are foolishness to those who have not taken leave of reason.
They say their doctrine is infallible and true, but ignore the fact that there is no
dearth whatsoever of pretenders to infallibility and truth. They may think they choose their
doctrine because it is offered to us as infallible and true, but this plainly no sufficient reason
scares of other doctrines, scriptures and apostles, sects and parties, cranks and sages,
make the same claim. Those who claim to know which of the lot is justified in making such
a bold claim. Those who tell us that this faith or that is really infallible and true are presupposing
in effect, whether they realize this or not, that they themselves happen to be infallible.
Those who have no such exalted notion of themselves have no way of deciding between dozens of
pretenders if reason is proscribed. Those who are asking us to spurn reason are in effect
counseling us to trust to luck, but luck in such cases is unusual.
Such a faith stance is the result of making virtue of necessity and no one would favor
it if they were proposed any genuinely cogent proof supporting the choice they like Mark urge upon
you. That quote is over. Let's move into Matthew's gospel. Most academics believe that is the second
gospel. In Matthew's gospel Jesus is born as both son of God and king of Israel by virtue of his
genealogy going all the way back to Abraham. Unlike Mark's version of the Jordan baptism,
Matthew's has John the Baptist tell Jesus that he needs to be baptized by Jesus instead of the
other way around. This author saw a problem with Jesus being baptized by John in Mark's gospel.
Another very important point to emphasize about Matthew's gospel, present also in the baptism
scene, is the notion of fulfilling scripture. Many critical scholars have shown that Matthew is so
concerned with fulfilling scripture that one could say that Matthew is not motivated by true
history but by theology. Jesus writing two donkeys rather than one because the evangelist
literalized the poetic parallelism from Zechariah 9-9 which intends but a single donkey and there
is more, much more. Let's see what Matthew has done with the mark in story where Jesus challenges to
produce a confirmatory sign from God abruptly refuses and walks away. This is found in Mark 8
11-13 but in Matthew 12 38-41 it has this. Then some of the Pharisees and teachers of the law
said to him, teacher we want to see a sign from you. He answered a wicked and adulterous generation
asks for a sign but none will be given it except the sign of the prophet Jonah. For as Jonah was
three days and three nights in the belly of a huge fish so the Son of Man will be three days and
three nights in the heart of the earth. The men of Nineveh will arise at the judgment with this
generation and condemn it for they repented at the preaching of Jonah and behold something greater
than Jonah is here. For those who are cue advocates the cue version does not go so far adding only
except the sign of Jonah leaving the reader to figure out what it means. Jonah huh? To this Luke
added the beginning of an explanation for as Jonah became a sign to the men of Nineveh so will the
Son of Man be to this generation but the italicized lines in Matthew that are different than what we
find in Mark seek to elaborate Jonah's role further and in this two ways. First he inserts Jesus
resurrection as an anti-type fulfilling the Jonah typology. Second perhaps reading Luke as some think
Matthew interprets the business about Jonah's role as a sign to the Ninevites as denoting Jonah's
unexpected success in persuading the Assyrians to repent of their heathen ways. What do the two
Matthew and glosses have to do with each other you ask? Much in every way. One has to wonder if the
sign of Jonah was added because of the Gentile mission after Jesus is done with the Jewish
not-so-great commission in Matthew 10 5 through 6. Do not go among the Gentiles or enter any town of
the Samaritans. Go rather to the lost sheep of Israel. For Matthew the Gentile mission may
practically be said to be the form in which Jesus rose from the dead as when Bothman proposed that
Jesus rose into the Kurgma. The gospel preaching of the early church who witnessed Jonah get swallowed
by a massive fish and then spat out after three days. The Old Testament author makes no mention of
anyone witnessing this feat. Likewise the Jesus movement did go to Gentiles who certainly never
saw resurrected Jesus. Many references to that. But there is a letter of Jesus to Abgaris. It is
written concerning me that those who have seen me will not believe but those who have not seen me
will believe. And then in Matthew 16 15 through 17 highlights ignorance on the part of the disciples.
But what about you he asked? Who do you say I am? Simon Peter answered you are the Messiah the
son of the living God. Jesus replied blessed are you Simon son of Jonah for this was not revealed to
you by flesh and blood but by my father in heaven. This text again is Matthew an embellishment unique
to his gospel. The assertion is a close parallel to Galatians one. I would have you know brethren
that the gospel which was preached to me or by me is not man's gospel. For I did not receive it
from man nor was I taught it but it came through a revelation of Jesus Christ. This is this is pretty
remarkable. For does it not constitute an admission that even for the ostensible eyewitnesses of Jesus
there was not sufficient evidence to convince them that Jesus was what Christianity claims he was or
is? In fact isn't this also the upshot of 1 Corinthians 2 1 through 5? When I came to you
Paul says brethren I did not come proclaiming to you the testimony of God in lofty words or wisdom
and my speech and my message were not implausible words of wisdom but in demonstration of the
spirit and of power that your faith might not rest in the wisdom of men but in the power of God.
In other words had Paul managed to convince his hearers with fancy apologetic arguments
their faith might vanish like yesterday's news as soon as someone else came along with
and offered a better sounding spiel. The only way to ensure against that is to grab them by the
emotions or by some kind of ecstatic experience. That way they will not seriously consider a
rival belief. You didn't arrive at your belief by reason no reasoning is going to make you give it up
and I stand by this. How does Matthew's gospel conclude? The short and most familiar version
would be that Jesus rises from the dead and appears first to the women at the tomb which he has
excited just shortly before. He orders them to relay this to his disciples the message that he
will expect to see them soon on a hilltop in their familiar haunts back in Galilee. Unlike in Mark the
women do as they were directed and so do the disciples. The ensuing scene seems to over compress
the traditional formula for miraculous stories and resurrection stories in particular. Initial
skepticism quickly over come by disclosure or gesture. I say over compressed because the text
actually reads not but some doubted rather but they doubted in Matthew 28. Some would be bad enough
but all of them in any case neither would be so bad as long as the statement were leading up to
some breathtaking demonstration of Jesus resurrection and identity but we don't see that or do we.
I suggest that in fact we do. Jesus issues the Great Commission to evangelize the nations,
the Gentiles and promises he will go with them as they do. The resurrection appearances will
extend to the commission or consummation of the age and that is what overrules their doubts.
Albert Schweitzer put it perfectly. He will reveal himself in the toils, the conflicts and
sufferings which they shall pass through in his fellowship and as an ineffable mystery they shall
learn in their own experiences who he is. Schweitzer is talking about his own contemporaries and you
and me but the words apply equally to the ancient Jewish Christian missionaries from the church at
Antioch for who the gospel was written to serve as a manual for organizing new congregations and
cataclyzing their members. The actual 12 whoever they were probably never set foot outside of Jerusalem
and here we see the final echo of the prophet Jonah the solution to our riddle of what Jonah's
emergence from the well's gullet had to do with his witness to the Ninevites as his sopping wrinkled
return from his blubbery prison led directly to his precedent smashing mission to the Assyrians
so did Jesus return from the heart of the earth directly ignite the preaching mission
to the heathen nations the Gentile mission was the resurrection. Now Luke's gospel there seemed
to me three major occasions of serious and productive doubt in the third gospel all of them
clustered at the end. First comes the utter incredulity of the disciples at the holy women's
report of the empty tomb in Luke 24 at first the men dismiss their story as hysterical nonsense
just like Rhoda's report of Peter's deliverance from death row in Acts 12 when Peter investigates
he finds the tomb vacant but leaves just as clueless as when he arrived in pointed contrast
to the gospel of John's beloved disciple who instantly recognizes what the emptiness of the
tomb means in John chapter 20. The second doubting story is that of the Emmaus disciples
heading home after their hopes were dashed by the crucifixion in Luke 24 the narrator seems
undecided as to whether the Cleopas and his companion were blame worthy because they hadn't
been able to accept the truth of the scriptural predictions of the messiah's suffering and death
God forbid Lord this must never happen to you Matthew 16 22 or because they had never
recognized the existence of such prophecies in the first place which makes a lot of sense Jesus
patient exposition of numerous scriptural verses as predictions of his just completed
suffering poses another problem Jesus rebukes them for not noticing these predictions as if they
should have been impossible to miss martin Luther's purpose quity of scripture but in order bring
them up to speed he has to open their minds to understand their hitherto esoteric import
this ladder presupposes the pressure puzzle solution technique of exegesis which posits
the holy spirit's encryption of prophetic messages transcending the literal sense of the
biblical texts this approach is on display in the Dead Sea scroll commentaries especially the one
on Habakkuk as well as in Matthew these were not messages to be recognized in advance of the events
they presaged they could be understood only after the fact but in that case what is Jesus rebuking
the Emmaus disciples for my guess is that Luke's gospel is written so much later and so far outside
of Palestine that he didn't know how the system worked and the result is confusion and obviously
doubt the more sophisticated apologists usually have some familiarity with Pescher exegesis
and so are less eager when they used to be to invoke the evidence of fulfilled prophecies of Jesus
I will suggest here that this wise retreat though an improvement in intellectual honesty
also marks a genuine concession they had been shooting blanks with that particular gun and
wondered why their shots had no effect now they know Matthew was not quoting clairvoyant predictions
that had come true like Jean Dixon predicting JFK's assassination he was just offering a new
readings of old texts and as little more than literary illusions did they know what should
happen but didn't believe it or did they not know either way they did not recognize it was the
risen Christ informing them of these things it was only subsequently at table that they suddenly
recognized him whereupon he vanished into thin air without taking a bite since it was during the
blessing that he vanished this is surely intended as symbolic of the Eucharist Jesus being invisibly
present among believers at the weekly Lord's Supper as such it's hardly squares with the next
incident our third in Luke 24 in which Jesus suddenly appears in the middle of the disciples
in a closed room which implies his Jacob Marley like insubstantiality they naturally think they
are beholding the ghost of the slain Jesus come to bid them farewell but Jesus convinces them
otherwise he bids them take hold of his meaty hands and feet a test which no ghost could pass
and for good measure he eats a bite of fish something that neither angel nor spirit could
manage having no longer the requisite intestines as AJM Wetterburn notes this is just poorly
thought out storytelling the grossly contradictory story seems designed to buttress and reassure
resurrection faith but instead opens the gate of doubt even wider john's gospel is our final gospel
that we're going to get into as far as I can tell though belief is prominent in this gospel
as it shadows unbelief the specific motif of doubt dominates mainly the johannine resurrection
accounts there we find depicted the confession of doubt as well as its resolution but as with
the synoptic gospels already surveyed the Easter stories of john wind up sowing the seeds of doubt
even while it seeks to harvest a crop of faith we may begin with the confusion of Mary Magdalene as
she stands alone at the last known resting place of her dead mentor in john 20 jesus tomb is shockingly
empty how could things have gotten even worse after the horror of the crucifixion but they have
who has made off with jesus body a cruel fate seems to be twisting the knife the leery eyed
Mary spots a figure standing nearby in the dawn mists who could he be but the caretaker
perhaps he can clear things up oddly he knows her at least her name Mary perhaps she doesn't
recognize him at first because jesus is the last person she could expect to see but somehow it is
he the story forms part of a puzzling pattern of non-recognition in in that Easter in chapter 21
the johannine appendix a different first appearance scene occurs again the disciples having abandoned
jesus and gethsemane have now returned to their secular job fishing someone waves to them from
the shore suddenly one disciple recognizes him though presumably all can see him just as well
this implies a veil has fallen for that one disciple why only him we are reminded of the
Emmaus road disciples oblivious of jesus identity until the veil parts various students of the
gospels have noted how suspicious this is you'd think these people who traveled with jesus daily
for months or even years would have read it readily recognized him even after the crucifixion
surely they would think good god that's jesus was that somebody else up there on the cross
or was he taken down alive well who cares he's back we are naturally tempted to think did they
miss jesus so much that they saw a familiar face or form and later wondered could that have been
jesus this was Hugh j shonefield's belief others more recently have seen in these stories reflections
of early itinerant preachers and hillars who took as their motto jesus words whoever hears you hears
me no such speculation disproves the christian faith but the possibilities they raise do tend to
devalue the traditional appeals to the gospel easter stories as trustworthy eyewitness accounts
the piecemeal character of the johannine easter episodes cast doubt on several of the links in
the narrative chain as already noted the fact the miraculous catch of fish and john 21 seems intended
as the first resurrection appearance but so does the appearance to mary early in chapter 20 note
also that at chapter 20 19 through 23 the replay of luke's chapter 24 36 to 43 cannot follow logically
from the meeting with mary because that one seems to think it is only resurrection appearance
since jesus bids her tell the disciples goodbye for him implying they will not see him for themselves
but in the very next scene they do likewise the john chapter 20 19 through 23 scene must envision the
presence of thomas since the object of jesus visit is to impart the holy spirit to equip them for their
apostolic ministry yet retroactively in the following scene we learn that thomas was running out
an errand when jesus dropped in this is because the doubting thomas scene is motivated by a different
theological concern the point is no longer jesus bestowing the keys to the kingdom to the college
of apostles but rather to urge readers to believe without having seen jesus for themselves no thought
is given to narrative continuity this is often the case in ancient narrative where the plot lines
such as it is mainly functions as a string along which to arrange the various pearls or charms
each as aesthetic or didactic object in its own right but this drives home once more than in the
gospels we are dealing with literature not history the apologetical task might be described as trying
to convince readers that the literary is historical in order to give themselves permission to imagine
that they live in the fiction the epic the myth and surely one of the most flagrant tip-offs that
the gospel of john is fictive is the moment in chapter 20 verse 29 where jesus actually seems
to be breaking the fourth wall and speaking directly to the audience jesus said to him
have you believed because you have seen me blessed are those who have not seen and yet believe
we can almost imagine jesus winking that's how i understand it doubt is of course a synonym
for uncertainty and for those who whose faith rests upon the belief in an infallible scripture
any ambiguity in scripture is as bad as blatant contradiction since in either case one has left
wondering what one is being commanded to do or to believe speak lord for thy servant hearth
but if the bugle gives an indistinct sound who will prepare for battle the devout bible
assist is thus left in doubt and the one thing inquiring minds want to know is how are the dead
raised with what kind of body do they come back what answer is john's gospel provide
then he said to thomas put your finger here and see my hands and put out your hand and
place it in my side and do not be faithless but believing so for john the risen jesus proposed
a solid solid fleshly body but on second thought maybe john's jesus doesn't mean that at all
you see the ancient near east was rife with tells of ghostly apparitions and sometimes the haunting
dead drifted in substantially composed of misty ectoplasm but still bore the wounds that killed
them they would display these wounds not to signal they still had flesh but rather for identification
purposes yep it's veto all right he still got that pull cue up his butt but if the return jesus
were made of ectoplasm it sure would have been easier to put your hand in my side can we really
know that is dogmatize on which version john had in mind in conclusion if you're being
distracted by an incestant knock at the door don't worry it may be an axe murderer but rest assured
it's not me i'm not trying to share with you the good news that your christian faith is misplaced
or in vain but it is my task even if self-appointed to try to keep you honest when it comes to the
bible if scripture gives you welcome promises it also bequeaths you serious doubts and your faith
will not be worth much until you face up to them fair and square i must admit also i left out in
particular the axe situation in axe chapters nine through eleven where the author of luke axe is
definitely harping back to the jonah's story utilizing jonah from the first healing that
happens with aneus and then tabitha and then cornelius you have a miracle of cornelius getting
the holy spirit and peters convinced that this unclean person is now clean this jonah story
appears often in the early traditions and you have to wonder is this the point of the resurrection
is that it's going to those who are not jews and this is their obvious evidence that the resurrection
is true is that non-jews are believing the message i'm highly suspect to thinking that's the case
but never forget i'm not going to knock on your door and i hope that you'll be honest
i think it's better to be a doubting thomas than a blind fool thank you
so
in summation these are the six minimal doubts argument let's coin the phrase number one
trusting paul should we trust paul paul himself constantly defends himself as i am not a liar
and to those other apostles they mean nothing to me he even lambast peter and peter seems to be
possibly teaching another gospel that paul is saying anyone who teaches you another gospel to
his audience let them be damned let them be cursed he curses them and i think these are the 12 or at
least the jerusalem apostles and it's almost as if these are people throwing around the idea that
you're not a real apostle i am i'm a real apostle you're not and this is going on and on should we
trust them we know axe wants to harmonize these problems number two the gospel of mark is extremely
pauline and it has a messianic secret nobody gets the message oh the demons kind of know but he
silences the demons the apostles never really get it the one time they get a glimpse of even an
inkling it's revealed to them from god above and they don't really know it themselves and at the
end there's a great disappointment because the 12 are not told to meet jesus and galilee where they
would supposedly meet the resurrected christ we know an apostle someone who actually has met
the resurrected christ did they meet the resurrected christ is mark trying to say the 12 are not
real apostles but that one is coming paul who will have the real gospel and he will give it to you
worth checking out because there's many academics who think so number three
matthew's gospel first birth narrative that pops up on the scene in chronology but also
in matthew he tax on the jonah sign that is not found in mark's idea when they ask for a sign
he says oh you're gonna get the sign of jonah okay and as jonah was in the ability to fish for
three days so shall the son of man be in the heart of the earth is jonah's sign really the
resurrection in the literal sense or is it something else because jonah goes and preaches a
message to non-israelites and they receive it they repent they follow jonah's message
here in matthew's gospel we keep getting this vision of all right we went to israel they
as many as would accept it got it but do not go to the gentiles or the samaritans matthew
10 yet finally the great commission happens after the sign of jonah resurrection now they are able
to send this message out to the ninna bites or gentiles people who are not israel and they're
going to receive it and they've never seen the risen lord also at the end of matthew
while they're on the mountain in galilee supposedly in the presence of jesus himself worshiping him
they doubt it that's weird the resurrected jesus is right in front of you and you doubt
hmm this is interesting i really think you should pause number four luke's gospel i won't go into
too much but in luke's gospel you have the road to a mass and all day long they're talking with
jesus and don't even know it now i don't know about you but i'm not walking and talking all
day long with someone and i don't even notice who they are and then a vitamin in my house
don't even notice who they are they sit down don't even notice who they are and then only
until that he breaks the bread with them then they recognize him this seems far more theological
than historical and it's probably alluding to the idea of the eucharist the breaking of the bread
and the blood and drinking and eating of the god jesus himself is this eucharist i say yes
then they recognize him what's the moral i'm always with you i'm always in your presence
even if i'm not literally there seems to be pretty simple and it's trying to give people
who have doubts the idea don't worry jesus is here in our presence number five the gospel of john
while i could go on and on about the gospel of john i want to make one point the gospel of
john's story about thomas thomas was a doubter thomas is you the reader you the reader who are
reading these things and jesus is almost looking at the reader at this point and saying but blessed
are you who don't see yet still believe and then winks i mean it's it's so obvious this is here
to suppress the doubts of people who need to see him but won't why aren't you a doubting thomas
if you believe this to be true that should be i think where everyone should be at but no they
want to suppress your doubts and an adulterous generation asks for a sign good excuse for not
having to show up i don't know how else to put it and then number six to put the icing on the cake
in acts of the apostles chapter nine through eleven we see the the the inclusion of gentiles
start to show up the the nation start to show up with the need and then from a need you have
tabitha and then you have cornelius and these are people who are not israel these are technically
to use an analogy neneva we know there's a correlation between this because peter is like
the jonah figure who kind of wants to run from god and argue with god when he says don't call
anything unclean that i've called clean reversing the role of these gentiles that are receiving the
gospel with gladness now none of these gentiles saw the risen jesus none of them actually witnessed it
why are they convinced and why do they believe i don't think it's wise words and lofty language
it's more about an experience giving them some type of ecstatic experience or something
they also spoke in tongues and i was part of that kind of group so maybe this plays a significant
role but i want you to consider this is literary and not historical these are just six minimal
doubts you can probably think of many more let's get it started
you
