We are MythVision.
Welcome to MythVision Podcast.
Today you're joining for a discussion forward slash, if you will, debate with Dr. Mark
Goodacre and Dr. Dennis R. McDonald.
To queue or not to queue?
That is the synoptic question and often we have what they call the synoptic problem.
We're going to be discussing this problem today and how scholars handle this.
There are various views.
I'm going to jump right in and right now I'm going to show you guys our guest.
We have Dr. Dennis R. McDonald earned his undergraduate degree from Bob Jones University,
a master of divinity from a Cormac Theological Seminary and a theology in Denver, Colorado.
From 1980 to 1998, since 1998 to 2015, he was the John Wesley Professor of the New Testament
at the Claremont School of Theology and Professor of Religion at the Claremont Graduate University.
He also was the director of the Institute for Antiquity and Christianity at Claremont.
To list a few books, he has Homeric epics in the Gospel of Mark, does the New Testament
imitate Mark, the Gospels and Homer, mythologizing Jesus, the Dionysian Gospel, Luke and Virgil,
I'm not giving you guys subtitles, it would go on forever, Christianizing Homer, the Two
Shipwreck Gospels, the Legend and the Apostle, and from the earliest Gospel Q plus in the
Gospel of Mark.
We'll go ahead and start with our good friend here, Dr. Mark Goodacre.
He is the Francis Hill Professor of Religious Studies at Duke University, right down the
street from where I live, North Carolina, USA.
He earned his master's in philosophy at the University of Oxford.
His research interests include the Gospels, the Apocryphal New Testament and the Historical
Jesus.
Goodacre is the author of four books, including The Case Against Q, Studies in Mark and Priority,
and The Synoptic Problem, and Thomas in the Gospels, The Case for Thomas' Familiarity
with the Synoptics, which is going to be something we have to talk about in the future.
He's well known for creating web resources on New Testament and Christian origins, including
his podcast, The New Testament Podcast.
Goodacre has acted as a consultant for several TV and radio programs, including The Passion,
BBC, HBO, 2008, and Finding Jesus, CNN 2015 through 2017.
Goodacre is currently working on a book on John's knowledge of the Synoptic Gospels.
Have you completed that book?
It needs a little bit more work.
Well, welcome, gentlemen, to the show, and obviously, thank you for taking up the opportunity
to debate a question.
I don't think there's going to be another Q video like this out there, so with that
being said, I guess go ahead and start us off, Dr. McDonald.
We're going to let tenure in terms of age be the guy who starts us here, and I'm interested
in hearing what you guys present about the Q Gospel.
Thank you, Derek.
Derek and Mark encouraged me to begin with an anecdote.
I talked to a friend that I was going to have this interview with Mark Goodacre, and
he said, you must be a fool.
And I said, why is that?
He said, how are you going to compete with someone who's younger, better looking, has
a magnetic smile and an English accent?
And I think he's right.
You know, I'm a fool to be here, but I really am glad to be here and to talk about the synoptic
problem.
So here we go.
My primary interest in the synoptic Gospels pertains to its imitations of classical Greek
poetry, especially the Homeric epics, as I have argued in several publications, some
of which Derek listed.
In my opinion, the synoptic problem will remain to some extent at least unsolved until such
literary imitations become more widely recognized.
But imitations of Greek poetry, even if acknowledged, can explain only synoptic
characterizations, type scenes, and motifs.
Once one removes these narrative features, one finds, especially in Matthew and Luke,
a wealth of teachings, parables, and legal controversies that require a different explanation.
The discussion between Mark Goerekker and me today pertains primarily to these so-called
sayings traditions, whether it points to a lost gospel or not.
To my knowledge, no one in his camp, which I will call the far hypothesis, though it's
called by other things as well, has either in neither endorsed nor dismissed synoptic
mimesis of Greek poetry.
It would appear that they're content to largely ignore it.
But mimesis criticism actually supports a major commitment to the far hypothesis in
so far as it leaves no doubt that Mark is the earliest of all surviving gospels.
On the other hand, it demonstrates that Luke must have received some of his materials,
not from Mark or Matthew, but from a lost gospel, as we shall see.
Now let me say something about what seems to be the dominant solution to the synoptic
problem, one that's different from Mark and myself, not the gospel of Mark, Mark Goerekker
and myself.
That is the two-document hypothesis.
And I'm going to be fair, but very brief.
At the heart of the two-DH, or the two-document hypothesis, are three fundamental commitments.
First, Mark and Priority, with which I concur.
Two, Matthew and Luke redacted Mark independently, neither was aware of the other.
Therefore, Matthew and Luke overlaps when they do not both rely on Mark issue from a
lost gospel, ergo Q from Kvella in German source.
Three, Mark was ignorant of Q, as reconstructed by comparing Matthew and Luke.
Now here's how they go about reconstructing Q, and the most successful and popular of
these reconstructions is what appears in the so-called critical edition of Q.
First, one eliminates from Matthew and Luke everything that could be attributable to Mark.
So you wash Mark out of Matthew and Luke.
Second, you compare Matthew and Luke overlaps that remain for alternating primitivity and
attributing early wording and sequencing to the lost gospel, on the notion that sometimes
Mark is more primitive and other times Luke is.
And then, you assess content only in Matthew or Luke, the so-called zonderboot, special
material, for content that's congruent with Q.
Now that's very simply put.
Actually, the execution of these criteria on the synopsis can be very sophisticated
and detailed.
And I, for one, appreciate that hard work, though as you'll see, I also differ from the
conclusions and especially the flawed methodology that is used to reconstruct Q.
So that's what I would say is an overview of the two-document hypothesis.
Mark, do you want to jump in here?
I'm quite happy listening to you all day, Dennis.
I was very much enjoying that very, very lucid way of setting up the issues.
Fantastic.
And probably one of the most important things I can say for viewers is that I think the
agreement, this is not a good way to start a debate, by the way, but I'm sorry, I'm going
to do it anyway, but I suspect the agreement between me and Dennis is far, far greater
than the disagreement.
So I'm sorry, Derek, if that's a disappointing admission.
So it's just the absolutely fundamental thing here.
Absolutely fundamental thing is mark and priority.
Dennis and I agree, like the majority of scholars, that Matthew and Luke both had a copy of something
that resembles our Gospel of Mark.
Not exactly the same, but it must have been along those lines.
This is so fundamental to so much good historical scholarship on the Gospels.
And I've referred to it in writing before as one of the crown jewels in biblical studies
scholarship.
It's just one of those things which has enabled historians to get a whole fresh light on
historical Jesus, on the development of early Christianity.
So that really fundamental thing we're agreed on.
And I think one other thing that I'd want to sort of really underline really strongly,
because this often gets missed, is that we are both strongly committed to a literary
solution to this problem.
That doesn't mean that there was only text.
Obviously, these people talk to people as well, but a literary solution is absolutely clear.
And the reason why I want to underline that and underline our agreement on that is that
occasionally you'll hear people saying, oh, you know, you've got four Gospels.
There were kind of four people there.
And, you know, if I if I saw a traffic accident, I might, you know, have something similar
and something's different.
But it's just I hate to say that's just so ignorant.
That is just so ignorant because what you have in the Synoptic Gospels, Matthew, Mark
and Luke is fundamental, similar literary phenomena.
And when I say similar, I mean, we're talking sometimes about entire paragraphs that are
practically identical between Matthew and Mark, Mark and Luke, Matthew and Luke and
all three.
And I mean, it's so similar.
So I think, if anything, that's probably the most important thing that I'd want to underline
as as things that we are fighting the same battle on, which is this is a literary problem.
And just to reiterate, that doesn't mean that there are not oral sources around and memory
and different things.
Obviously, all those things would have factored in most of those things are lost to us anyway,
but it's a fundamental literary phenomenon and the importance of Mark and priority.
Then after that, I suppose we start disagreeing when we get to the specifics of how Matthew
and Luke agree.
Well, let me play nice and say that there are two other places where I think we strongly
agree.
And I'm going to anticipate your book on the fourth gospel and the synoptics.
And I am absolutely convinced that probably at several different layers of its composition,
the Gospel of John knows the synoptics and knows more than one of them.
And it's almost risible to say that it's independent.
So I would agree with that.
I also think your your work and that of others to show that the Gospel of Thomas, though
it probably retains some independent Jesus tradition knows the synoptics and it knows
more than one of them.
So I do think that we over we agree on more with each other than than we would disagree,
but we do disagree on some things.
So we can end it.
So we can end it.
That Derek van, right?
I was just going to say the debate is over, ladies and gentlemen.
I appreciate you guys watching the show and you saw now pick who won.
Now I'm just kidding.
Yeah, I'm glad you guys came on agreements because it's important you find those areas.
So when people are viewing like me, because I'm going to be I'm a student on every person
I ever interview, I'm literally a student.
I'm not a master at any of this stuff.
And I'm going to be looking for where you disagree and why I hopefully touch on weeds,
but don't get lost in the weeds as much as possible.
Because people like me will get lost literally and not be able to keep track of some of the
things, but we do need to get into some stuff.
So I don't want us to get too lost with that being said, maybe we can start on.
Well, Dr. McDonald, I'll allow you to steer the vote on this because I suspect we're going
to start getting into where we need to focus on why you guys don't agree and what you view
things differently.
How do you view things differently?
Well, I think we need to divide things into methodology on the one hand and evidence on
the other.
And I think Mark would agree with me that ultimately the answers are in the weeds.
But the weeds do not make for good viewing on a podcast on this kind of YouTube channel.
So I do have some examples that we can use, but they illustrate the methodology.
So I think what I'd like to do is to try it out, what the Q plus papious hypothesis is.
And in order to do that, I apologize for having written something out just to be clear and to be
concise.
The Q plus papious hypothesis derives its name from its advocacy of the existence of a lost
gospel that is half again as long as the critical edition of Q and also the theories
reliance on papious is exposition.
That is his five volume work written around 110 significantly before the composition of Luke
and John.
Papious often appeals to information from an informant, the elder John, likely the same elder
who wrote one, two and three John, two citations are relevant to Mark and Matthew.
Here's what he says, not about Mark Goodacre, but about the gospel of Mark.
And by the way, what I'm going to read to you now is the earliest known external reference to a
synoptic gospel.
Mark became Peter's translator.
Whatever Peter recalled of what was said or done by the Lord, Mark wrote down accurately, though
not in proper toxis, not in proper sequence for Mark himself, neither heard the Lord nor followed
him.
But as I said, he later followed Peter, who used to craft teachings for the needs of the
occasion, not as though he were crafting a sequential arrangement.
Syntaxon, the toxis is in there, of the logia about the Lord.
So Mark was not in error by thus writing a few things as he remembered them, for he made it his
one purpose to omit nothing that he had heard or falsely to present anything pertaining to them.
Mark's toxis or sequence of logia, that is, pericope, accordingly need not be authoritative in
so far as he merely translated into Greek a few things that he recalled of what Peter had
remembered and taught without regard for proper sequence.
Obviously, John had compared Mark's few things with the longer work or works that present logia in a
different sequence.
Few scholars today would concur that Mark relied on Peter's memoirs, and I have argued that most of
his narratives derived instead from imitating Greek poetry, especially Homer.
But Papias also says one very important but enigmatic sentence about Matthew.
Matthew, according to Papias, John the Elder's talk, Matthew said in order the logia in the
Hebrew language, but each translated it translated them, that is, these logia, as he was able.
The expression as he was able intimates that each translator mishandled Matthew's Hebrew
original and accurate taxes.
John and Papias thus had a synoptic problem already by the year 110.
Their three Greek Gospels contain similar logia, but in incompatible sequences.
Insofar as the taxis of paralogia and Mark and canonical Matthew are basically identical, the
deviating sequence, in my view, likely appeared in the lost Greek Matthew.
The importance of this passage should be obvious.
Before the writing of the Gospel of Luke, the Elder John and Papias knew three Greek collections of
logia about Jesus, presumably Mark and Matthew, perhaps as we know them today, but also one that
is lost that resembled Matthew more than Mark, but with content in a different sequence, potentially
something resembling what scholars have been calling Q.
In other words, whether or not one holds to the existence of a lost Gospel in forming the
synoptics, this reading of Papias modestly supports the two-document hypothesis against the far
hypothesis.
Insofar as it requires admission that a lost Gospel similar to Matthew existed prior to Luke.
But of course, it does not show that it was the Q document that was known.
That was the other Matthew.
More important to me, actually, is what Papias has in common with Luke acts.
And this may come as a surprise to most people, maybe even to Mark.
I think Luke is later than Papias and knows Papias.
And because Papias was so concerned about Matthew, Luke had to have known Matthew.
And this, I think, is the major problem with the two-document hypothesis.
It has glossed over far too much evidence, not just minor agreements.
By the way, a lot of the minor agreements are major agreements and need to be taken more
seriously than they have been.
Papias is, thus, more important in problematizing the two-document hypothesis than the far
hypothesis.
To tidy up his synoptic atoxia that is a disorder, Papias set out to restore the
toxis of Matthew's lost Hebrew collection in a synthesis of his own to supplement it
with other traditions and commentary.
He says, I will not hesitate to set in order again, also for you, whatever I learned well
and remembered well from the elders with interpretations to confirm their reliability.
For I would not take joy as many would in those who had much to say, but in those who
taught the truth, not in those who remembered the commandments of others, but those who
remembered the commandments given by the Lord of for faith and derived from the truth
itself.
Now, the similarities between Papias's preface and the preface to Luke are
extraordinary because Luke modeled his after the exposition in my view.
Since many have attempted to set in order an exposition of the matters that have come
to fruition among us, many have.
And according to Papias, he had three, one Mark and two Matthews, as though who became
from the beginning firsthand observers, that is like Peter and Matthew, according to
Papias, and assistance of the word, like translators and Paul Mark's transcription handed
on to us their expositions.
It seemed good to me too, having followed them all thoroughly to write an exposition
precisely in sequence for you, most excellent theophilus, so that you may recognize the
uncertainty of sayings about which you have been instructed.
The parallel and quotation, the parallels are even more striking in Greek, nowhere in
ancient prologues, nowhere does one find a compelling constellation of exposition,
lexemes and Luke's.
And I have these listed out in Greek.
Most of your viewers will not appreciate the list, but it's six different expressions
that the two have in common in Greek.
Moreover, both books are addressed to a U, C, but my argument for Papias to Luke is not
merely lexical, but also is topical.
Both authors set out to correct the toxace of earlier gospels, at least one of which was
Mark. Insofar as Papias was obsessed with rearranging narratives about Jesus in his three
Greek sources to Matthew's original order, and insofar as Luke seems to have known Papias,
he obviously must have known Matthew as well.
In my view, this is the decisive blow to the two document hypothesis as it's maintained.
The comparison of the accounts of the death of Judas in the exposition and the acts of the
apostle delivers the coup de grace.
Papias's account disagrees with the account in Matthew and Luke agrees with Papias, but
shows awareness as well of Matthew's account.
In other words, Matthew informed Papias's account and Papias and Matthew influenced Luke's
account. The arguments for this evolution of stories is compelling, but too complex for
this discussion. In sum, Papias attests to the existence of a lost gospel that resembled
Matthew, but with sayings in a different sequence.
This could confirm the existence of Q in agreement with the two document hypothesis.
On the other hand, if Luke knew Papias, he must also have known Matthew in agreement with the
far hypothesis. The Q plus Papias hypothesis offers a compromise that advocates both the
two document hypothesis in some of its regards, and the Q plus Papias hypothesis offers a
compromise that advocates of the two document hypothesis and the far hypothesis both won't
like. So, Mark, I do want to talk about how the two shipwreck gospels in this hypothesis go about
reconstructing the lost gospel, but you may want to say something now about Papias.
Thank you. Thank you very much, Dennis.
So I don't have a nice prepared screen.
I mean, I could read a bit from the book, maybe, but no, to be fair, I don't discuss
Papias much there. Maybe if I could just say one quick thing, because I'm interested in the
interaction between us. But one quick thing I would want to say is that I like very much the
stress on mimesis, imitation. And one of the things that I often say when I'm presenting this
whole synoptic issue is it's fascinating just how similar Matthew's gospel and Luke's gospel are.
In antiquity, you would struggle to find two books so similar. And to me is one of the great
anomalies of scholarship that we take these two really similar books that the like of which
Indiana really, really similar books. And we say, Oh, this guy didn't know this guy. There's no way
that Luke got, you know, his idea from Matthew. And to me, that's one of the most fundamental
issues in this. And I think I like your quotation of the preface of Luke, Dennis, because one of
the things the preface of Luke tells us is Luke is dissatisfied with his sources in some way.
You know, I mean, he does this whole thing says, Well, you know, I've investigated everything
carefully from the beginning, and now you're going to get the truth. And you don't write that way.
If all you're going to do is just copy out your source material. So Luke, I agree with you, Dennis,
Luke is critical of his source material. It's just that in my way of looking at it is that emphasis
on order that you have in Luke's preface really shows itself when you start noticing if Luke
used Matthew, he really has worked reworked the order. I think he doesn't like Matthew's order.
I think that's one of the key things that Luke's trying to do. And I think one of the fascinating
things that you're seeing is, you know, we agreed about Mark and priority. One of the things I think
Luke is doing is he has known Mark's gospel, I think, for much longer than he's known Matthew.
And he's kind of got it into his bloodstream, into his thinking. He knows the thing really well.
And I think when he reads Matthew's gospel, he can see what Matthew's gospel is, what Matthew's
gospel is, is a revision of Mark. And I think Luke sees that and he thinks, do you know what?
I could revise Mark too. And I think he thinks he could do it better. Not only because he has some
sort of better ideas about the order, but also because he likes a lot of the new stuff in Matthew.
And he says, well, I can use that. I can use that. I like the Beatitudes. I like the Lord's
Prayer, I like the Parable of the Lost Sheep. So those go into, but he doesn't want to restructure
Mark in the way that Matthew does. So I agree with lots of what you say there, Dennis. And
just one last thing. I like the point you made about minor agreements. And you said a lot of the
minor agreements are quite major. The chapter I wrote about this in my case against Q actually
is called Major and Minor Agreements. Because one of the things that I think scholars have done is
they basically, scholars are very good at categorizing things. I like to put everything
into little boxes. And sometimes when they put things into little boxes, they do it to stop you
from looking at it. But like magicians sometimes, it's like a kind of sleight of hand thing. If
you can take all the best evidence that Luke knew Matthew, and I think there's lots of it,
there are thousands of these agreements between Matthew and Luke against Mark. If you can take
the best evidence and put it in a little box and label that box minor, then he gives every
single student an excuse not to look in that box. And I think that's a fundamental mistake,
because it might be that that box has got the key stuff in. I think it has. Because if you want to
argue that Luke knows Matthew's gospel as I do, then the best evidence for that is where does
Luke agree with Matthew? So we don't want to shunt that off, you know, into the corner somewhere.
We want to embrace it. Well, I agree entirely. In fact, even though Goulder does not use the
word mimesis, as I recall, he certainly, especially in his brilliant treatment of the
infancy narratives in Matthew, uses imitation and not what I would call anal redaction,
which is so uncreative and, you know, you know, literal. And we need to have a much more robust
understanding of gospel intertextuality than the one that Alon and Huck Riven are promoting
in their synopsis. By the way, I'm producing a new, what I call two mimetic synopsis
that include the my reconstruction of Q. But for me, more significantly, my translations of
parallels from Greek poetry is a way of having a much more robust and wide open understanding
of gospel intertextuality. So I, but you might want to respond to my comment about Goulder,
but Goulder had a much more creative understanding of gospel intertextuality
than someone like Franz Nairink. Yeah, I mean, for viewers not familiar, this is Michael Goulder.
It was actually pronounced Goulder as in shoulder. Michael Goulder, I think one of the great
scholars of that time on the Gospels and sadly quite underrated during his lifetime.
And he did see the evangelists as being creative authors. He felt that they were people who weren't
just kind of village style scribes that were just barely cobbling their way through things,
you know, kind of a little bit muddled, what was spliced a bit of Mark in here and was spliced
a bit of Q in there. You know, he thought that these were actual authors with creative minds
who had agendas doesn't mean that their works are perfect literary art, you know, the gospel
are not, you know, they're not Homer, but they are, I think, products of brilliant authors with
their own agendas. And yes, I think that Goulder was absolutely right that when Luke starts writing
his gospel and the first things he does, he says, okay, we've got these birth narratives in Matthew's
gospel, adding a birth narrative at the beginning of Mark's account. Great idea. I'm going to do
the same, but I think I can do it better. And the thing about that is most of history has agreed
with Luke on that because, you know, I didn't because of the pandemic, I didn't get back to the
UK this holiday season. But usually I do. And that sometimes means I'll get to a Christmas
Carol service. And do you know what, when you see people reenacting the nativity, which one do
they enact is always Luke, the only bit they like out of Matthew's is the three wise men,
because that's them bringing presents. And then we can go, oh, we can all give each other
the presents at Christmas, you know, but otherwise we like Luke, we like the shepherds, we like the
angels, we like the Annunciation to Mary, we like the fact that Luke focuses on Mary rather than
Joseph, you know, so we, we're all in a way fans of Luke's project, which is why I think New Testament
scholars are so strange when they say, oh my goodness, what's going on? Luke couldn't possibly
have known Matthew's birth narrative. But why couldn't he? I mean, so, so yeah, absolutely.
Yeah, it was about something we've agreed about something, Dennis, I'm getting really,
getting really uneasy here. Okay, actually, the first thing I'm going to mention now,
you'll agree with too, unfortunately, but I'll get to something you disagree with rather soon.
I want to talk about my book, Two Shipwreck Gospels, The Law Glory of Jesus or Q plus in
Papius's Exposition of Logia about the Lord. My solution to the synoptic problem begins with
two fundamental commitments. The first, Mark, I think you'll agree with the chronological sequence
of synoptic writings begins with Mark, goes to Matthew, and finally Luke. And I think that's just
got to be as fundamental as Mark and priority, that we get that sequence right.
Two, sometimes later gospels contain earlier material, that is, in many cases, Matthew preserves
a saying found also in Mark, but with more primitive wording. In some cases, Luke preserves
a saying found also in Mark or Matthew, but with more primitive wording. I call this phenomenon
reversed priority. So whereas the two document hypothesis uses alternating priority,
I insist on reverse priority. And to identify it, I use three collaborating criteria.
The first is independence likely is more primitive than narrative contextualization.
When a one version of a saying stands on its own, it generally takes priority to want to
simulate it into a narrative context. Sometimes sayings generate narrative, in my view. Second,
difficulty or ambiguity to him is earlier than improvement. Later texts tend to solve problems
rather than create them and to enhance Jesus' stature rather than diminish it, for example.
Third, atypicalities versus typicalities. When one version of a saying displays characteristics
typical of an author's style or theology, and there is a parallel version that lacks such
editorial traits, the one that shows fewer of them likely is earlier. Now, Mark, you'll see
similarities in these criteria for those that are used often for New Testament textual criticism,
moving to improvement, assessing a manuscript's typicality or whatever.
Two shipwreck gospels first supplies these criteria to Mark and Matthew, ignoring Luke,
to show that even if Luke knew Matthew, which I think he did, one could make a case that Matthew
had a second source, not just oral tradition, that contained content more primitive than Mark,
and now is lost. Matthew's reverse priority is most apparent in his 18 doublets and six non-doublets.
In each case, the non-Markan version is more primitive. Now, this is very important to me,
but it's hard to understand, so I want to very briefly try to help viewers understand what's
at stake. Matthew redacts Mark. In 16 times, he has content that resembles his imitations,
his redaction of Mark, and in every case, apparently, the non-Markan version is more primitive.
Non-doublets refer to places where Matthew has been redacting Mark. We get to a certain point,
and he stops redacting Mark, but that content appears elsewhere in the Gospel, not with Mark
and wording, but with wording that's more primitive. Now, scholars routinely attribute these more
primitive non-Markan doublets and non-doublets to Matthew's knowledge of alternating sayings from
oral tradition, but the logia isolated from Matthew's reverse priority to Mark repeatedly
imitate Deuteronomy to portray Jesus as the promised prophet like Moses, and you can see this,
of course, in Matthew already, still, where there's this concern about Jesus as the new Matthew
and the new Torah. But in my reconstruction of these primitive non-Markan materials,
we find John the Baptist in the wilderness preaching repentance like Moses in the first
verse of Deuteronomy. John insists that he's not a prophet like Moses, someone stronger than he is
coming. Jesus is tempted in the wilderness for 40 days like Moses on Mount Sinai and in response
to the devil, he cites Deuteronomy three times. He overturns the mosaic permission of for a man
to divorce his wife. He violates Torah by eating with tax collectors and sitters, by defending,
gleaning, and healing on the Sabbath, and eating with unwashed hands. In the last logian, Jesus
promises his twelve disciples, serones in his kingdom, from which to judge the twelve tribes of
the house of Israel, much as Moses said, authorized to judge for each of the twelve tribes at the end
of Deuteronomy. The consistency of this theme in these materials, including verbatim citations
from Deuteronomy, points not to Matthew's awareness of oral tradition, but to a document in addition
and earlier than Mark. Then my book applies the same materials to the Gospel of Luke to identify
reverse priority to not just Matthew, but also reverse priority to Mark. And there again we have
about, I think, 14 doublets and eight non-doublets.
So basically that's my attempt to reconstruct the lost Gospel. Dr. McDonald, I think this is
really important because there's a lot of layers you added to this in terms of what we're going to
discuss, and I definitely think it's important. Can we pause where you're at and get Dr. Goodacre
to maybe respond? Because some of these I think he's going to disagree with, and I'd like to see
some interaction here for the sake of the audience as well, so they could see both of you guys kind
of discuss some of this stuff. Because there's a lot already you mentioned there that could really
be talked about. And some of those things, I guess I want to ask a few basic things if that's okay
to you, Dr. Goodacre, and then we can get... I just want to read one final paragraph, but I agree.
I want to get right to Mark's comments. Yes. Both dominating solutions to the synoptic problem
proposed that Luke had only two sources, although that I know has been, is not entirely fair.
According to the two-document hypothesis, the two were Mark and Q. According to
some versions of the far hypothesis, they were Mark and Matthew.
But already, Papius knew of three lost gospels, and Luke speaks of many previous attempts to
write an exposition. Two measly sources do not constitute many. The Q plus Papius hypothesis,
however, insists that Luke's many included Mark, Matthew, a lost gospel resembling Matthew,
which I would call Q plus, or the Logo of Jesus, and Papius's exposition. In other words,
four makes many, two does not make many. And then I'm done. Okay.
That's a great point. Quick questions, just real quick ones. And then I want to discuss,
this is the heart, right? We're right at the beating heart of the differences between you
and Dr. McDonald. First question I have for you, Dr. Goodacre, that I think is important,
and then I want to allow you guys free conversation. I don't want to intrude because
you guys are going to get far further, much further than I will be able to bring you guys to
in this debate. Dr. Goodacre, do you agree, and this is a side note, on Dr. McDonald's view of
the Homeric connections mimetically to Mark? Yes or no? You don't have to go into too much,
you know. I think it's really intriguing and exciting. And actually, the nice thing about
Dennis's work on Homer and the Gospel of Mark is that you can accept that or reject it
on a range of different explanations of gospel relations. And I think one of the things it's
helped us to do is sometimes we, in sort of 21st century scholarship, we insist that you can only
bring out any parallels if they're parallels within Second Temple Judaism. We are so obsessed now
with that. So that we sort of pictured the evangelists as being, I mean, this was a corrective to
earlier scholarship where basically they really thought, no, no, we don't want any kind of Second
Temple Jewish stuff. So I think one of the things that's very helpful about Dennis's work is it
helps us to think about the entire Greco-Roman literary context that everybody in this period
was moving in. So that's something I'm very grateful for. Well said. He didn't say yes, he agreed.
I do appreciate the compliment and that was wonderful. Let's see, what about his views on
Papias as a source? You know, in the far hypothesis, what it sounded like to me is Dr. McDonald is
suggesting, technically, we have another gospel to Matthews. And the second Matthew that we don't
know of is technically his Q source. But I don't know if that's already bringing into some of the
weeds that he's brought up. I mean, I agree that we need to take Papias seriously. And one of the
things that's fascinating about Papias is that the quotations we have for people that don't know
Papias, we don't actually have his stuff. So we're dependent on some quotations that turn up in
Eusebius from a couple of hundred years later. And what is really interesting about Eusebius's
quotations is he's got this big chunky bit on Mark, which Professor McDonald quoted. But then
when it gets to Matthew, it's just like this sentence or so. And that does suggest to me that we are
in an era where Mark's gospel is still regarded as really, really important and pivotal. Because as
you move later into the second and third centuries, Mark is getting marginalized all the time. So that
I find really interesting. But I do want to say on the back of that, that I don't doubt the existence
of or the possibility of this existence of other sources, other literary sources, possibly even
other lost gospels. Where I'm skeptical is I'm skeptical of our ability as scholars to reconstruct
them. This is where I'm uncertain. You see, the thing is, everywhere you look in New Testament
criticism, scholars are busy trying to reconstruct sources. And I always find that work interesting,
but I'm just skeptical. I'm not skeptical about the existence of those texts in antiquity. I'm
skeptical about my colleague's ability to, you know, tease them out. Because I think one of the
problems is we're all in a sense frustrated archaeologists. We like the idea that an archaeologist
can go and dig in the dirt and they can pull some artifact out and then say, look what I've found.
We want to do that when we're looking at our texts. But the thing is, however hard,
I've got my Greek New Testament here, however hard I dig around in there, I am not going to be able to
pull out an ancient source precisely in the same way an archaeologist can pull something out of the
ground. So, you know, that's where my worry is. I just think that I don't think that literary
remains are like archaeological sites. So that's where I'm kind of skeptical. And especially,
given that we actually do have something that appropriates to Matthew's gospel, something
that, you know, something that we haven't got in Matthew's original autograph or Luke's or anything
like that. But we've got lots of early witnesses to that stuff. And then when we look at Matthew and
Luke alongside one another, it's just so much easier to draw a direct line, it seems to me,
rather than to do this kind of independent, you know, kind of thing that there must have been
something else that was out there that we can't, you know, that we've no longer got access to.
So to be technical here, you're, where I see a lot of issues is trying to draw off of a source
that is technically prior to Mark, as if there's some prior to Mark that Mark's using this gospel
as a lost source. Who knows if there was a floating source simultaneously to these, but
that Mark in priority, when you say that, you mean that it was the initial gospel, so to speak.
Whereas what Dr. Goodick or Dr. Price, I always interviewed Dr. Price, Dr. McDonald is suggesting
that there was actually a gospel source being used by Mark that might have been a primitive
gospel that was, if you will, the priority. And then Mark became, I think, more well known.
So you guys are in a little bit of a disagreement on that issue. I like what you said about being
skeptic. Can we really get a fossil out of this? And you're not so sure, you know, you might get a
fossil that you want to see or suspect on certain evidence and methodology and how you're approaching
the topic. Let me ask one more thing, and then I'll shut up, because he touched on a lot of
good things I had to make notes on, primitive priority. So if he is correct in saying Luke's
using older, it sounds like Luke is saying things that sound older than Matthew or Mark.
Right there, that would be the door's opening to say, well, where is he getting that older
phrase from if Mark or Luke or Mark and Matthew don't sound older? What do you have to say about
that and his methodology on coming to those conclusions? Yeah, I mean, this is, I think it's
a mirage. So one of the reasons why Luke sometimes looks more primitive is that Luke's just got a
much bigger vocabulary. He's a huge vocabulary. So whereas, you know, Matthew will say, talk about
moving mountains, Luke will talk about moving a sycamore tree, right? Or when Matthew will talk
about the birds of the air, consider the birds of the air, Luke says, birds, ravens, consider the
ravens of the air. This is all the way through Luke. And this isn't just in the so-called cumatill.
This isn't the way he edits Mark as well. When he's when he's editing Mark, he introduces
more unusual expressions into Mark than he takes over. So you can look more primitive
if you're just coming up with a phrase just sort of once. So that's one of the reasons why Luke
often looks more primitive. And it's also that Matthew's got a very clear, predictable style.
So it's very easy to spot. But Luke's style is often so much more subtle. And I think it's easy
to mistake subtlety for primitivity. And another thing that is that sometimes they're just extremely
good arguments for Luke's redaction of Matthew that have been ignored. So one of them, the absolute
classic, this is the text one, this is not me just pulling some random thing out. The textbook
example is the first beatitude in Luke 6 verse 20. In Matthew 5 3, blessed are the poor in spirit.
In Luke 6 20, blessed are the poor. Everybody, every single Q scholar practically without fail
says Q had blessed are the poor. And Matthew spiritualized it added in spirit. So I argued in
my book, what would you expect Luke to do if he had Matthew? What you'd expect him to do is write
blessed are the poor because we have an earlier sermon in Luke begins in Luke 4 16. What does he
do? Jesus says that the spirit of the Lord has anointed me to preach good news to the poor.
I mean, that's the previous sermon in Luke. And so I point this out and people go, oh,
yeah, I suppose I suppose it could be that, you know, but then I still think Matthew spiritualized
it. So I say, well, look, look, look, even earlier in Luke, look at the Magnificat Mary song, where
what she talks about is this massive eschatological reversal where the poor will become rich and
the rich will become poor and the humble will be raised up. That's the beatitude. You look later
in Luke, you look at the story of the rich man in Nazareth, where the rich man is the one who goes
to Hades and the poor man is the one who is exalted just as Luke has in 620. So sometimes I
think it's just a case that there are really good arguments for Luke and secondary nurse
that are overlooked in part because I think of our secularizing gospel, but lots of us
are secular types. So we kind of prefer something that says blessed are the poor to something that
says blessed are the poor in spirit, because we don't really know what poor in spirit means. So
I think that would be my in a nutshell kind of answer. I think mainly greater Luke and
primitivity is a sort of mirage. It's not really that.
Okay, Dr. McDonald, I know you want to respond to that. And I would love to have you respond to
that. And then I'd like to have Dr. Goodacre, if you don't mind to take over in terms of leading
the discussion so that you and him can have an open back and forth. And I don't want to have
to coerce the conversation, so to speak. I'd allow you guys to freely, you know,
even get into the weeds like this specific example. I'd like to hear you guys read in
differences and stuff or other examples and go from there.
Well, I'm going to respond to two different pieces of Mark's response to you, Derek.
The first is to say that I share his skepticism about the ability to reconstruct the lost gospel
Q. I've done my best to do so. But I would be the first to say that my reconstruction of Q
is not a xerographic copy of the the lost gospel. It's built on explicit criteria.
I trust that I applied the criteria fairly and consistently. And that I think I've unearthed
not the absissima wereba of the Q document, but the absissima wokes, if I could put it that way,
the an authentic voice that is distinctive, that underlies the the gospels of all three
synoptic gospels. But I share your skepticism. In fact, the reason that I developed the Q plus
papias hypothesis is, you know, I was director of the Institute for Antiquity and Christianity
here at Claremont, which is the center of Q scholarship. John Kloppenborg is a friend of mine.
I'm a colleague. I was a colleague of James Robinson. So now I'm, of course, persona non grata
to that crowd. But I tried to make this the critical edition of Q work for me with those
criteria and it failed and it failed not only in the ways I've talked about, but there are other
just lots of examples where the methodology fell apart and I just couldn't go go there.
So it's one thing to be skeptical. It's another to say, then should we abandon the project or
should we try another project? And so I've decided on another project. And I think your
skepticism is more thorough going, but I think it's legitimate. And to some extent, I share it.
The I do disagree with you about the Beatitudes. I don't want to go there. But what I would,
and by the way, I do agree with you that some of Luke and creativity is overlooked
in an overly literal way of understanding intertextuality. So that Luke has taken liberties
with Matthew that we often have not seen and factored into an assessment of whether
we actually have inverted priority of Luke against Matthew. I grant you that.
I don't think, though, that your solution answers the places where Luke has more consistent
sequencing than Matthew. It's not just a matter of his clever language. And I agree with that. It's
not just a matter of nemesis versus redaction. It's also an issue of arrangement. And of
course, arrangement was a big deal for Luke and Papias. And it's a big one for me. The example
I wanted to give everybody was an issue related to sequencing. So that's, I don't want to get into
it now. I don't think we have the time. It would be right in the weeds that we don't want to go into.
But so my answer would I share your skepticism about the ability to reconstruct the document.
I don't think my document is a copy. I would never call it a critical edition of Q, for example,
which is a rather preposterous pretension on the part of the international Q community, in my view.
I agree that Luke and creativity needs to be taken seriously in assessing the relationship
between Luke and Matthew. I don't think it's just a matter of literary competence. I think there are
issues of sequencing and real primitivity going on. So I think I'll just leave my comments there.
Time to put the boxing gloves on, guys. Dr. Hennig.
Yeah, I'm always, I'm always amused by this concept of getting into the weeds as being
a bad thing. I mean, the, I mean, I have a couple of us due to the weeds. I mean,
one of them is, is that if I see weeds in, in, on my lawn, I want to pull them out and throw them away.
But, but if it's the other attitudes, I want to understand them. And I think that
to go back to archaeological metaphors again, I use a phrase in my Thomas book, which I picked
up from a grad student of mine, Ken Olson, diagnostic shards, because when an archaeologist
gets a pot out of the ground, gets a bit of a pot, like a lot of the pot isn't going to actually
help you data, you know, you might get just a bit that turns out to be a bit of the side of the pot.
But if you get like maybe a bit of a handle and a bit of the top, you, that can be a diagnostic
shard because it can help you say, oh, Roman era pottery. And then you know, you're in a Roman era tomb
rather than say Byzantine era tomb or something like that. And my feeling is that sometimes when
you do look at the details in the synoptics, some of them are like those diagnostic shards in
archaeology, because there's just stuff in Luke that shouldn't be there. If he hasn't got Matthew's
Gospel, and if he's not dependent on, on Matthew, I mean, I mentioned a minute ago, the first sermon
in Luke, the, which is like the rejection at Nazareth, which, which Luke brings forward from
where it is in, in Mark chapter six, in Mark, you've got the rejection at Nazareth in chapter
six, he doesn't call it Nazareth, he calls it Jesus's home place, his home country, whatever. But
Luke brings this forward and you think, well, why did he bring it forward? And then you look at
Matthew's Gospel, Matthew 413, he mentions Jesus leaving Nazareth and not only that,
he spells it. This is really the weeds. He spells it Nazarar and Luke spells it Nazarar in Luke 416
as well. And you think, you think, well, that's pretty striking, isn't it? So suddenly we have
this agreement. It's a tiny agreement. But it's, it's, but sometimes, you know, minor agreements
make major contributions to the debate. And I just think it's the accumulation of things like that.
They just make me say on time and time again, I think Luke's working with Matthew. And it's,
I mean, and you're, if I may sort of like turn it back to you, Dennis, one of the difficulties I
think for me about your position is that you're happy to admit that Luke knows Matthew. But then
you have to imagine that Luke's put Matthew, I don't know, where is Matthew? Is it sort of in the,
in the closet somewhere? Is it certainly on the floor? It's not, it's not, you know,
it's not on his lap, is it? Or, I mean, so where's Luke left Matthew? Why is, why is Luke so busy
with Q plus when he's got this lovely Gospel, which became extremely popular in the second and
third centuries? But, but Luke, he's kind of, he's left it out the back somewhere, hasn't he?
Well, we're going to get in the weeds and I think that's good. Okay.
You're familiar with Darren Backer's book on Gospel composition and so I think it's important,
especially how many different visual accesses an ancient author can have to sources. So in some
cases, it's visual access, both of us agree with that. In some cases, it's freer, and it's not so
buchstablich, and you'd agree with that. Some cases, it may in fact be by memory. So that my
assessment, let's say of Luke, is that sometimes he has an actual text in front of him. I think
that's the case usually with Mark. I also think sometimes he may have Matthew's text in front
of him, but may only have remembered that Matthew had an alternative version or whatever. I'm not
sure of the technology of it, honestly. But here's something that I find fascinating and I'm
perfectly willing to back down from, but I find to be quite interesting. In my view, the parallels
between Papias and Luke appear primarily in the preface and in the Acts of the Apostles,
that is, the bookends of Luke's project. Inside of that, his imitations of Matthew, in my view,
occur next after Papias, after the introduction, you get the infancy narrative. And then before you
get to the Acts of the Apostles, you get to the resurrection stories that have occasionally their
own echoes between Luke and Matthew. Then you get to, so we're building a chiasm. The next
material that we find is the Markan material from John the Baptist until about the first
passion prediction. And then we have the Luke and travel narrative, which is a big section in the
middle where we don't have very many parallels to Mark and even to Matthew. And then we pick up the
Markan narrative again at about 1854 and carry the Markan pattern up until we get to the resurrection
story. In other words, I just find it fascinating that in terms of technology, he has Papias first
and last. Then he has Matthew second and second to last. Then he has the Markan narratives between
the Methane sandwiches. And he finds this then big travel section that has, according to the
two-document hypothesis and my own two, most of the Q material, or at least the special Lukean
material tends to be in that central section. So I still, I think your question is right on target
Mark. And I think this is one of the unknown, the places where the synoptic scholars have to
continue to work. That is, what is the technology of composition? When does an author have a text in
front of them? Can authors have more than one text in front of them? Because sometimes they also
have a biblical text in front of them. And in my view, sometimes a poetic Greek text in front of them.
Do they remember these things? Darren Barker talks about strategic readings of a text
before composition. So you saturate it the same way the ancient rhetoricians would talk about a
cow retching cud after it's already had it in the stomach. So I do think that these questions are
important. I don't know that they're answerable. And so my attitude would be to be really flexible
on the technology of composition. How many texts are available? Do people remember it?
Or in some cases, the parallels in fact may come from oral tradition, but we just can't
monitor it. If I may, I'll pitch in on the technology issue. I think it's actually
fascinating to ask the media question, how the heck is Luke doing this, whatever the hypothesis was.
And I mean, the book that you mentioned, Robert Darren Barker's ancient compositional practices
and the synoptic problem, really, really important contribution to the debate.
But one thing that I'm actually going to hope at some point going to write on this
is I think that one thing that's been missed in the debate is how ancient authors generally
worked. And they generally, when they talk about writing, they don't mean when we say writing,
so I've got a pen in my hand at the moment. When we say writing, we mean both composition
and physically scribing. But somebody like Cicero, when he says writing, what he means is
he means composing and somebody else is doing the scribing. And I think Luke's like that. I think
Luke's like Cicero. I think that Luke has got his own, I call him, I call his scribe, Paul had
described, called Tirtius, who comes in Romans 16. So I like to imagine that Tirtius's nephew,
Quartus, is the person who actually writes down Luke's Gospel. Now, if you've got another someone
else, and this is the norm in antiquity, this isn't just like some wacky idea I've come up with,
this is the norm, everybody is dictating, authors are dictating antiquity. Now, if Luke is dictating,
we can get rid from our mind of all of these ideas of Luke being in a tangle because he's got
Matthew here and Mark here, and then a pen here and a sponge here and something to scrape the thing
with here. What he's got is he's got the scroll in his hands. So he can actually, when he needs to,
actually open the scroll and read from it directly out loud. And I think that's what's
going on sometimes in this really, really high verbatim passages where Luke seems to be almost
like reading out. And I think like when you get something like the sign of Jonah in Matthew and
Luke, it's so similar. Or John the Baptist's preaching, which you mentioned down. I mean,
it's so similar in Matthew and Luke. I think Luke's reading it out of Matthew. But I appreciate the
mention of memory as well. Memory is so important. And memory of manuscript is important. This is
just a theory, I can't prove this, but I think that Luke has Mark's Gospel almost by heart. And we
know that you can memorize Mark's Gospel because plenty of people have done it. You can go on YouTube
and you can watch Tom Boomer Shine performing bits of Mark in Greek from memory. So I think
that's what's going on in Luke. And I think it's a kind of a melding of these things. There's no
one explanation that meets them all. But I think the idea that Luke technically, technologically
couldn't have done what he's supposed to have done on the basis of his knowledge of Matthew,
I think is not right at all. I think it's quite easy to imagine him doing that thing by memory
and dictation and just consulting the text in front of him. I want to jump in on the question
of genre and literary. Oh, I know there was another issue I wanted to raise. Sorry.
Richard Carrier and I had a debate recently. And he denies, of course, that Jesus existed.
You and I agree that he must have existed. But one of the things that, and I don't think I'm
putting things in your mouth, that one of the issues that the viewers had was if there's no
cue document, then the earliest manifestation we have of Jesus as with some of these sayings
is not until about 180, 185, whenever we date Matthew. And so many people argued that how could
I know? No, not 180. Sorry to interrupt, but not 180. You mean 80? 80. No, no, 80. Yeah, 80 or 85.
Yeah. I thought there's a radical new dating going on. So the one advantage of the cue hypothesis,
I would date the cue document around 60. We get 25 years headstart on Matthew with some of that.
And so that's one reason I'm interested in the cue document. But let me come back to this issue
of technology and the gospel genre. I think there is so much confusion about the gospel genre.
And it comes in part because of my interest in Greek poetry and mimesis. But it also comes out
of my own study of Greek rhetoricians. And I've spent quite a bit of time dealing with quintilian
and other choruses and so on in the rhetorical letters. And one of the things that they,
especially quintilian says, is if you want to know how to write a poem, you read poetry.
It's not that you have poetry as a, that you can list out the genre requirements for poetry.
It's that you're familiar with that text. And I think that Luke is writing a gospel,
not because he has an idea of what a gospel should be, but because he has literary models that
already have done what he wants to do and he's rewriting it. So a lot of this verbiage, and I'm
thinking about Burrage and others here, about what constitutes a gospel genre, I think is
bad thinking. I don't think it's generic. I think it's genetic that you have gospels because they're
rewriting each other. And you can see that they're rewriting each other, even when they have such
different genres, such as the Gospel of Thomas, for example. So I think this discussion of technologies
of writing and so on needs to take rhetorical traditions pretty seriously. And I think we
don't know enough about how compositions work in antiquity to be able to simply use a simple
source redaction model for explaining intertextuality. Dr. Goodacre? Yeah, I don't disagree. Don't
disagree with anything there. Let me ask you something then. Let's go back to the technology
sandwich analogy, the chiastic structure that Dr. McDonald brought up about papias. I want to ask
you and get your comments. Do you think Luke's using papias? No, absolutely not. No. Okay, so
there's a disagreement. Okay, cool. Oh, yeah. So punches were thrown. Yeah, I think in terms of
dating, I am pretty sure that Luke knows Josephus. Well, I'm absolutely sure Luke knows Josephus. That
means that Luke has to post a 90. Steve Mason makes such a good argument for that. I agree. But also,
oh, good. But also, I think Ignatius knows Luke. Now, Ignatius is really difficult to date.
But Ignatius is Smyrnians. It really looks like he is quoting bits of Luke, and I could make a
case for that. But that actually means that your window for Luke's Gospel is somewhere between
the late 90s and 120, 130, the absolute latest, because then we get to Gospel of Thomas, which
I argue my book also knows Luke. So I suspect that papias either did talk about Luke, and we
haven't got it. You know, you see this doesn't quote it, maybe because it's not significantly
interesting enough, or he just or papias could be a near contemporary and Luke is relatively
recent. You have a similar phenomenon in the Gospel of Thomas, where in the Gospel of Thomas 13,
you have reference to Peter, who was already by this stage in papias seen as the source of Mark,
and you have a reference to Matthew. And so this sort of Mark Matthew thing, Peter Matthew thing,
is a kind of an early second century way of thinking about these things.
So, but I mean, that would be my speculation. But no, I don't think that papias, I don't think
Luke knew papias. And the I do agree with Professor McDonald that they're fascinating
similarities between Luke's preface and the way that papias speaks, and especially the stress
on order. And I think that might be influenced by Luke, I can't prove that, but it might be
influenced by Luke's preface, you know, Luke's the first one we know of to complain about order.
And then after that, for the next like 1900 years, everyone's worried about order. But Luke,
I think, is first and then papias, and then everybody else is going, oh, my goodness,
why is Luke got this bit here? And, you know, and then you get to John's Gospel,
oh, my goodness, the cleansing of the temples at the beginning of the Gospel. Why is that there?
You know, so as soon as you have competing canonical text, you're always going to have
that problem of order. When would you date papias's exposition, Mark?
I don't know. I'm waiting for there's a there's a book in press at the moment by Stephen Carlson
in Catholic University, really looking forward to seeing what he says. So I'm going to reserve
judgment in case I say something rash that I'll have to repent. Well, I'm going to say something
rash, and then I may have to repent because I'm looking forward to that document too. But Ulrich
Kirtner and Norelli are the two that I use, and they date papias around 110. And I would date Luke
around 115, which does allow them for a relative chronology that would favor. Right. But to be
honest, the relative dating is in flux both for Luke acts and for papias. So one has to make the
argument in terms of literary direction, and not solely on as a matter of relative chronology.
I agree with you. Okay, to the sandwich of the chiastic structure that we're talking about in Luke.
Something came to mind and I thought to myself, okay, Luke is definitely using higher vocabulary.
He has a, I guess you'd say a stronger vocabulary to come up with a better imagination. Plus,
these are authors, they're creative in their own way, they could be using their own,
their own imagination while creating these texts and possibly influenced by like you talk about Dr.
McDonald, other works that might even be like the Dionysian narratives or other such potential Greek
narratives that may play a role. But I wanted to ask in the sandwich, in the middle, when we get
past papias, if we assume that that's accurate, that's papias, we get past Matthew and we assume
that everything there is connecting from using Matthew as a source, we get past or into the
mark area. That's where the gray area started to come up in that little chiastic thing that I was
thinking, I was trying to read your mind, Mark, and wonder what you were thinking. Well, that's
where you're saying Q plays some type of role in a way in that middle area where Mark is at in Luke.
Whereas you would say, no, this is the only sources needed technically,
wise that we have is Matthew and Mark. I guess my question to you, and maybe you can expound on
that and just give some ideas and then Dr. McDonald can piggyback is the way I see it is as either
tech source or oral tradition is usually like the cop out for explaining why something's there.
Tech source obviously would be far and not saying that there may not have been a oral tradition,
but that's like reconstructing Q, so to speak, supposing something's there that we don't know
for a fact or don't have evidence of. Can you elaborate some into Luke, into the heart of
where we're at here and what you're saying and how you disagree with Mark? I mean, on
sure. I mean, on chiasm, I'm a chiasm skeptic. I am too, as a matter of fact. I am.
I just don't. You see, the thing is, it's one of those things where they're self
deconstructing in the sense that for every chiasm structure that you find, you will find
another person pushing equally hard for a different chiasm structure, which basically kind of is
self-refuting. And I long ago, before I decided to write my doctoral thesis on the work of Michael
Golder, one of the things I was thinking about doing is writing them on chiasm and I'd come up
with a method for attempting to refute the existence of scholarly reconstructions of chiasm.
But everyone I pitched it to said, well, we don't believe in those chiasm anyway.
So anyway, I abandoned doing that. I do want to, on the oral tradition point, I think that's
right. I think, for me, there are two things involved in the oral tradition issue. One is,
of course, people talk to one another. That's really what oral tradition means. We know that
there was oral tradition. If you read Paul's letters, you know that he's talking to people,
other Christians are talking to each other. The difficulty with the appeal to oral tradition
is it's often used in scholarship to try and, you know, as a kind of get out of jail free card.
And one thing I would say about oral tradition in the Gospels is that there are only two places
that I can think of where you've got an explicit tradition that is mentioned already. One is in
Matthew 28, when there's said to be a tradition about the disciples stealing Jesus's body.
And Matthew thinks that this tradition is unreliable. So that's one vote against oral
tradition from the author of Matthew. The other one is the end of John's Gospel,
when there's a tradition that goes around that the beloved disciple will never die.
And then the author of this book says, well, no, no, that's not really what Jesus said either. So
the two times you actually get oral tradition coming up in the Gospels, they're quickly
followed by the evangelists going, oh, no, but we don't like oral tradition. So actually,
the evangelists, what they really liked was it is written, not only when it comes to
Old Testament texts and so on, but also when it comes, I think, to prior Christian sources.
Dr. McDonald, I tell you what, I would like to hear
for our audience that's watched so far, we've heard mostly agreement in this entire debate.
Let me ask Dr. Goodacre follow up on this real quick, Dr. McDonald, because I'd like to have
you comment on this. Dr. Goodacre, from your perception, and based on what you've heard so far,
what are your problems? Like, can you tackle what you think are the heart of the issues and
really like lay them out and then maybe make a comment and we can have Dr. McDonald bounce back
on that? Sure. I think I suppose the key thing for me would be Occam's razor. Occam was a medieval
philosopher who said that sometimes Occam is misrepresented as saying the simplest hypothesis
the best, but that's not actually what he said because that would be a ludicrous thing to say
because simple hypotheses are frequently wrong. But what he did say is you shouldn't multiply
entities beyond what's necessary. So my key point would be that if you can make good sense of Luke's
Gospel on the basis of him having used Matthew and Mark, then there isn't any need to go to
QQ plus Proto Luke specialist special that you just look at the documents you've got in front of
you. And so I think that's the fundamental thing for me. Luke makes such good sense as a reworking
of Matthew in the light of his frequent preference for Mark. So I think if I wanted to get to the
number bit, that's the one for me is that's the really key thing is our good friend William of
Occam. Dr. McDonald. You know my screen is frozen. So I'd be happy to respond and I'm not
falling asleep or checking out. But I think Mark has identified exactly where the primary
disagreement would be. And what I would say is Occam's razor isn't sufficient to explain all of
the places where I think Luke is more primitive than Matthew. And you mentioned the Beatitudes,
but there are many other examples that people have given. And by the way, you and other members,
advocates of the far hypothesis have spent a lot of time worrying about them and writing about them.
So I'm bringing no coals. I'm bringing coals to Newcastle if I could use an English expression.
But the Beelzebulk controversy, the Lord's Prayer Prohibition of Divorce,
Judgement on Jerusalem, Hating One's Family. Then I would add the issues of sequencing. I just
don't think you can get a free pass on all of the places where Luke differs from Matthew and
Matthew, but Luke seems to be more primitive. The other is I'd be fascinated in knowing what
you do with methane doublets, especially, but also leucan doublets and non-doublets.
Because the nice thing about having a second source is it allows to see how doubling up works.
But Occam's razor is not very good at explaining doublets and non-doublets, in my opinion.
So I think, Derek, you were right in asking us where the big difference agreement is. And I think
that's where it is. Whether literary creativity on the part of Luke is sufficient to explain
the deviations from Matthew, or whether it requires another document, and I would add
the issue of doublets and non-doublets to it. So I think that is the major point of disagreement.
Dr. Goodacre, I'd like to hear your thoughts on this.
Sure. I mean, the doublets one is interesting. Of course, Luke does have a second source in my
view, which is Matthew. So the question then is, is Matthew, because there's methane doublets as
well, is Matthew capable of creating doublets on his own? Yeah, of course he is. And not just doublets,
but triplets and quadruplets, because what happens with many ancient authors, is there's going to be
a particular kind of saying that they like and they reuse. So go to the Gospel of Thomas. He really,
really likes saying that he finds in the synoptics, let the one who has ears here.
And in Thomas, it comes multiple times. And we don't go, well, he must have had four or five
sources for that. We just say, oh, he really likes the one who has ears to hear here. So
a parallel example in Matthew would be something like weeping and gnashing of teeth, which Matthew
uses five times in his Gospel. He loves that phrase. Luke uses it just the once. Does Matthew
have five different places where he gets it from? No, he's just a phrase that he likes.
So yes, the evangelists all will double up sometimes when there's something that they
particularly like. And with something they really like, you'll get it three times, four times, five
times, or even more often. I mean, that's just endemic, I think, across the synoptics and even
in other early Christian documents where the human mind is a strange thing. There are certain
things that you will latch onto and your brain will just keep bringing back. And that's why I
think, you know, you get this kind of repetitious material. And also, and the other thing about
the Matthew and Douglas, it's really interesting, is that I think Matthew's a better poet than Mark
and then Luke for that matter. So sometimes you will get something that Mark says, which is a
little bit more prosaic. Like in Mark, there are many who are first, who will be last. And there are
many. Matthew, in one of his versions of that, he says, and the first will be last and the
last will be first. He can neaten these things up into these really nice kind of parallel kind
of phrases. So yeah, I think a lot of it is because Matthew has a good eye for these things.
And sometimes he will, he will double up. And I just think it's a natural thing that you get
in rewriting of source material. It'd be surprising if they didn't do it.
Well, there's no doubt that you have
doublets that are not explained by multiple sources. There's no question about that.
The issue is, and, you know, Matthew doubles up on the healing of the blind men, for example,
so on. But in the cases of these sayings, the ones that I'm using, these cases, Matthew,
is always more primitive than the Markin version. Now, you can cleverly attribute that to his
being a better author and being more trenchant in the way he expresses himself. And I wouldn't
even doubt that in some cases. But to think that in no case is Mark more primitive than
the non-Markin doublets and non-doublets in Matthew is a problem for me. That's all I would
Well, yeah, I mean, primitivity is in the eye of the beholder, of course. But
one of the things that I think we do know, and this is this is where I will concede at least
part of the point. When in Matthew 24, you get this eschatological discourse, which is largely
based on Mark 13. It's fascinating that there are some parallels in Matthew 24, which are closer
to one Thessalonians four and five, which we everybody has agreed one Thessalonians is earlier
than Mark and Matthew. So we do have Matthew reprimitivizing Mark as a horrible word is that
real word reprimitivizing anyway, making look more primitive Mark. And so we can see that going on
there. You've arguably got the same thing happening when you get Luke's Eucharistic
passage, where you have significant parallels between Luke and one Corinthians over against
Mark. Everybody thinks one Corinthians is earlier than Mark me included. So there Luke is reprimitivizing,
if you like. So you do have that as a phenomenon. There's no doubt that that kind of thing's going
to be around. But the question is, whether one wants to elevate that kind of phenomena
to an overarching source hypothesis. That's where I get really kind of twitchy about it,
because usually speaking, when you get down to looking to see whether the alleged greater
primitivity really is greater primitivity, usually I think there's a perfectly good
explanation for it, an explanation that you can find parallels to Matthew doing elsewhere.
So Matthew's one of the joys about Matthew is he's quite predictable. One of the things about
Luke is he's not so predictable. He's predictably unpredictable. Matthew, you can guess what he's
going to do a lot of the time. And that's where I think some of that stuff comes from. But yeah,
of course, it's not going to be, it's not robotic. They're not going to be every single case where
Matthew has a parallel with Mark. It's going to look secondary in every case where Luke's got
a parallel with Matthew and they look secondary. It's always going to be more complex than that.
Well said. Dr. McDonald, obviously, you guys, that's where you get into the garden and really
look at the weeds, because I'm going to say you need to read their books, because at that point,
we're going into where we would need like vigils and really breaking down some of these specific
things and saying why you disagree and going from there. I guess Dr. McDonald, do you have any
specific things you'd like to raise? Well, I think Mark Goodacre and I are going to agree that we
want you to buy the books. So on that, we're going to agree. I guess the only, then there was a more
important thing I was going to say that has escaped me. Maybe while you're thinking at that point,
I'm not too bothered if people don't buy my books. You can do it for free by going to my website and
there's a ton of free stuff there. So you can start there if you like. And one of my books is
available in Toto for free on the internet. That's an object problem way through the maze,
plus my podcast. Gosh, I'm sorry, Derek. I'm plugging away here, but also the podcast is
all available totally for free. So people, these are hard times and I worry thinking about people
spending money on academic New Testament scholarship, especially when you can get at least a lot of my
stuff without having to spend any money. That makes me very happy. The most important thing is that
we're engaging our minds and we're thinking about important issues in serious ways. Well, in fact,
that reminds me another place that I agree with you, Mark. The two synopses that I'm working on now,
I'm hoping to make available free as PDFs and I'm almost done with it. And if I might just
plug it a little, the first synopsis is of four synoptic gospels and it begins
in privileges, my reconstruction of Q. So the four, the columns are chronologically organized from
the logo of Jesus or Q plus to Mark to Matthew to Luke. The second synopsis
attempts to stratify the gospel of John into its three compositional layers and then to compare them
and to argue that the earliest one was an imitation of the Bacchai. So that should be available,
I think, fairly soon and that also should be available free as a PDF.
I, as the prophet of Myth, Vision, Podcast, if you don't get the material and don't get involved
in active into this stuff, I'm kind of like Santa Claus. I know when you've been naughty or nice,
okay? So you just need to check this stuff out for real. To me, knowing this material, I obviously
want to take 2021 to new lengths, especially in light of what we've had going on recent in America,
as well as, you know, like you said, the epidemic that we're, this issue that we're dealing with
COVID and everything. Like I want to get more people aware of this stuff and have everyone
on a common level, if you will, grab ahold of these complex ideas. And you guys, I think,
did a pretty good job on breaking this stuff down for the layperson who is interested in these topics
to at least pique their interest and to want to know more. And both of you guys are presenting free
material. You're trying to get out there. Of course, this podcast right now is free. So you can go
in the description and you guys can access all the links to the websites to get the material.
I really, really encourage you to do so for both of these gentlemen because they were kind enough
to come. And I'm not going to say debate. I'm going to say conversing, if you will, because this was
not really a debate, but these are the kind of discussions that I admire because it's not a
UFC match. It's more what I would imagine would happen in the ancient world when philosophers
would get together and want to discuss topics. They weren't yelling or throwing dung at each other.
They were learning from each other, including, and they may not have come to conclusions agreeing,
like Dr. McDonald probably doesn't agree at the end of the day that your hypothesis is correct.
And you, vice versa, have disagreements. But this was one of the most beautiful,
friendly discussions that I've seen in a minute, honestly.
I wish you could see my smile, Derek. I know my screen is frozen, but I'm smiling and thumbs up
and very much appreciate both you and Mark and the congeniality that I think we're feeling and
sensing. And we trust that it's the Gospels that are the victors here and that we can get people
to take them seriously. I definitely want to do that. I think next up we'll try and get someone
who's a two-document hypothesis proponent to come talk to Goodacre and you, Dr. McDonald. I think
this is just, we need to have more conversation between scholars and not just in text, because we
have a new generation that are like me and younger that stick to audio and video and they don't read
like you guys used to read. And I say used to like, I'm already talking to good old days, you know.
I got to ask, I got to ask, Dr. Goodacre, I asked you about the memetic connections Greek wise.
Do you think, and I don't know if you've read Dr. McDonald's work on the Dionysian
what are your thoughts? Do you think that there is a Dionysian connection to?
So I suppose the question is whether there's a direct connection, whether you can draw a
direct line or not. And it's a little bit like my answer with the Homeric question. I think that
what Professor McDonald has done so well is open up our eyes and our ears to the broader
Greco-Roman literary context in which the Gospels were born. And that's really, really important.
So I'm going to punt on it for now and give myself more time to think about it.
Dude, you're a wise man. I'm telling you. I love it because I'm amateur reading this
material and I'm going, he made so much sense. I mean, like, you know, because, but then again,
he's also quoting the scholars in the book and he's mentioning how they're not wanting to go to
genetic connection. They're definitely wanting to say it's in the air, the aroma.
You can smell it, but we're not trying to say they had a baby. And I think that I heard a baby cry
when I was reading the book. So yeah, anyway, would you guys like to say a few complimentary
things before we get off of here? I'll just happily say that I do agree with you on the
importance of engaging in different media. I think a lot of my colleagues are still very texty.
And I always find that kind of surprising because personally, I find writing difficult.
I mean, writing gets a little easier as you get older and get more used to it, but it's still
hard. Whereas talking, I personally find much easier than writing. So I think I'm with the,
you know, those people of the younger generation who actually want to engage with one another.
You know, I'm always astonished when I have colleagues who get really excited about going
on sabbatical and go, well, what are you going to do? Are you going to begin writing a book?
And I said, well, that sounds awful. I mean, wouldn't you rather be in the classroom?
Being in the classroom is so much easier than writing a book anyway. So I just agree on that.
Derek, I want to say thank you for what you're doing on the podcast. It's been fun.
Derek, thank you. And Mark, thank you for your generous spirit. I want you to greet Jennifer
Knoest, your new colleague for me. And you can tell her that I put the Pericope Adulterai in Q.
So that'll give us something else.
Well, ladies and gentlemen, you saw it yourself. I mean, this was not a battle. This was a very
friendly, educating, scholarly discussion on the topic of to Q or not to Q. You tell me in
the comments section, let me know who you think has, I guess you'd say, a better proposition. Who
do you agree with more? Do you think the fair hypothesis or the papious Q plus hypothesis,
which one's closer to the truth in your own eyes? I'd like to hear that. Don't forget to hit that
like button. Check out the material for these gentlemen down in the description and never
forget we are Vision.
